TRANSCRIPT OF AUDIO FILE:
______________________________________________________________________________
BEGIN TRANSCRIPT:
COUNSELOR: Client 0324-006 interview number 10. Client 0324-006 interview number 10, November 18.
PATIENT: It's alright I never know what day it is.
COUNSELOR: It's a little late now but we got it straight.
PATIENT: Okay. Had me (ph) sleep for a usual, but it was basically for good reasons. It's just, because I had a really good talk with my boyfriend last night. I felt really good, pretty good after I left here I guess. I genuinely accomplished something or another. And, he just came back at about 11:00 o'clock to return the car and I was all set to go to bed because I was going to get a nice early start this morning which I didn't. But, I don't know we just kept talking. I guess about seeing you yesterday and about the fact that I felt good, or better. Which isn't saying much but (inaudible). And...
COUNSELOR: Wondering what was that sense of having accomplished something.
PATIENT: Just, I well, I think just when I said it just then I just meant doing things around the house. 
COUNSELOR: I guess I heard that in reference in what you had done in here and I wondered what that difference was. What was it that made you feel good going away from here? And I'm not asking so I can feel good about (inaudible).
PATIENT: No, um, just I guess in being able I hadn't felt tremendously good but I, just in being able to talk to you I guess. Which was kind of like I really hadn't talked to anybody at all. And I've been very leery of talking to my boyfriend because it was like just treading on thin ice as far as what I said. 0:02:44.4
COUNSELOR: Um hmm.
PATIENT: And it's like kind of after I talked to you, that I could sort of go back and say the same thing to him that I'd said to you as far as feeling not so guilty about involving him because I had kind of made the decisions myself. And which he saw and understood. And, it was kind of just, a lot of it was just clearing the air and getting a lot out of me. That I was kind of half afraid to look at and at the same time was like really overwhelming me and it really involved all segment of my life at the time. And, like some guy came over last night. Just a neighbor guy I can't stand. That and my roommate had a bunch of her friends in. And he sat down supposedly to talk to me and my roommate mentioned one of her friends who had dropped out of college and he said, immediately labeled him neuropsychotic or something like that. And, he's a clinical psychologist. And he said, everything there immediately turned and said, "What's that mean?" And he said, "Borderline psychotic can't cope with reality and stuff." And so we sort of got into this thing about okay what is reality? Maybe some people can cope with certain realities and maybe some people are sort of conditioned to cope with certain realities and not others and vice versa. And anyway it just got really heavy and nobody was getting through to him and he was just being really, NYU intellectual plus. Every insinuative and he was just arguing off the top of his head but nobody could argue him down because of the logic he was using. And I just, I just coped out I just left because I, I felt too vulnerable to not being able to cope with reality myself to sit there and argue about, how you label people.
COUNSELOR: It sounds like you almost felt at that point, "Well geez I might fall into his system or I might get affected by what he was saying," almost. 
PATIENT: Well, maybe I don't know. It's just that it just sort of just sort of terribly turned me off. It was like something that I just really couldn't hear (inaudible at 0:05:20.3).
COUNSELOR: Okay I kind of got you off the track I feel like with my question. 0:05:28.0
PATIENT: No. Anyway just, somehow like when my boyfriend came over he was fantastically receptive to listening to me. I was just amazed. I just sort of kept thinking you know it's going to stop one of these seconds. And it didn't. And, it was just a really good day. And, I just kept asking myself why, like why is he staying here and why is he being as affectionate and open and reaching out as he is. And I really don't know. I don't know whether something has happened in his life or what. I'm afraid to ask him. I'm afraid it's going to end. Part of if may very well be the fact that I'm drawn back and stopped clutching needing him and which happened I guess about two weeks ago when, some appointment I was here. When I was really going through hell (inaudible) just not even being able to (inaudible). In a sense having not (ph) on my side without feeling really deserted and really vulnerable. And, I think somehow getting over that or at least over it as much as I am right now has really helped.
COUNSELOR: I was wondering like before when we first talked about this needing to not talk about some of these things the way you described it sounded like you really had forcibly to to hold it in. And I was wondering if at this point it felt a little different like it really was, is the case more that you don't have to do that. That you can now talk to him about those things.
PATIENT: Well what kind it allotted to is what I had to say was no longer threatening so that it made it easier to say. I mean like...
COUNSELOR: (inaudible)
PATIENT: To hear him. Like, I could tell him about how I felt strong rather than how I felt weak and how things were getting better instead of things were getting worse. And how it was nice to have him around but I didn't need him, in the wrong sense of the word. And, that kind of thing I, is something I could have told him all along. And, I couldn't tell him all along because I didn't feel it.
COUNSELOR: Yeah yeah.
PATIENT: And so it's not that it's really getting any easier to talk to him it's just that I got something different to say. 0:08:19.0
COUNSELOR: Okay gotcha. I guess that says something to me about this, in part maybe about this feeling of it's going to end any second. Because like you're like maybe you don't really feel, well you don't feel totally confident that you're always going to have these things.
PATIENT: Yeah. But I mean right now I'm just sort of like (inaudible). Someday I'd like to get myself established in a some kind of a life that I'm satisfied in.
COUNSELOR: I guess I don't want to take away like I do hear you saying and it really it really felt good. Despite any doubts I have about it or concerns, in the process.
PATIENT: Yeah. Just, I mean like last night I couldn't go to sleep until 3:30 in the morning or something like that. And, it wasn't because for once it wasn't because I was mad at my boyfriend and felt there are times that I will not I cannot lie in the same bed with him or be next to him or be in the same room with him if I feel like we're really far apart. Like I can't be physically together if we're far apart. And I'll just move to the next room or take a sleeping bag and sleep on the floor or something like that. And, like I've done this for a long time because I just couldn't go to sleep when I would be anywhere near. And it was totally different last night. And that I felt so fantastically close to him and yet I had all these feelings of like we both had like really overslept yesterday and I had gone back to sleep and hadn't done very much. And we both had all these great things that we were both going to get a lot of work done today. And I had to get up early anyway and I was going to drop him off at his house so he had to get up when I got up which was like 7-7:30 when I was going to drop him. And, so all I had in my head was that I felt really good and really wide awake last night and I was going to really start doing all these things. And I felt, like I could really take off because I felt the support and the backing from him. And that I could take off on my own. And I was so eager to start doing all these things. But I couldn't go to sleep as a result of which of course I was exhausted today.
COUNSELOR: But like you almost could have gotten out of bed and started your life right then. 0:10:47.1
PATIENT: Well I mean what I felt like getting up and going to work, like right then, particular moment. As it was I got up and read some of my course work. And I tried to read my hypnotism so I could get myself sleeping. It didn't work very well.
COUNSELOR: You take Lori Taljon's course?
PATIENT: Yeah I'm taking it now.
COUNSELOR: Is it good?
PATIENT: It's very interesting. Something really I mean I just didn't anything about. And, it's something I'm happy about taking and doing. And it's really the only course I'm taking this course so it's good. That's what I do on Thursday night when I can't come here. But, like I just sat out there reading and he came out. And I felt badly because he comes out when I leave the bed or something sometimes or used to because it would mean that I'd be out slitting my wrists or something like that. And he'd get worried about me. There was the slight fear that he'd gotten worried about me last night. Except then there was very obviously no reason for him to worry so then everything was okay. In a sense it was nice that he had thought about me. That he had come out. I guess it was because I was really tired but this morning - I had case presentation - and I guess I was really because I wasn't coping I was just really really exhausted and I was trying, there was some people there that I like really had trouble staying on good side of. And, they were talking about this guy that was like really suicidal and somehow I just wasn't into taking that this morning at all. And that's something I've got to get over. Like I've got to be able to deal with suicidal people in a very nice psychological objective manner instead of identifying with them. Which I did with this guy. And...
COUNSELOR: So then what happens while you're sitting there identifying with him? 0:13:13.9
PATIENT: It's just it's like just, had he been like case (ph) it would have been very difficult. As it was I was pretty much a passive observer. Well when Jeff presented him and was involved was talking about the tests.
COUNSELOR: Yeah.
PATIENT: And I could make a few comments but that's about all. 
COUNSELOR: But it was too close to you?
PATIENT: But, it was like, no had it been my responsibility to decide what had happened was this guy had tried to kill himself and, went to the hospital and going out again. Looked for job and failed and been out 
(no audio or skipping audio at 0:13:54.0 to 0:14:07.1) 
PATIENT: ...all last week I mean I really wanted to kill myself really bad. Like just about every single night. That was pretty much a preoccupying thought if I was by myself or, and it was when I wanted to be by myself. It wasn't that I felt neglected or rejected or anything else. And, then they're sitting here talking about it, "Well this guy is obviously, we're not sure what he's going to do. We better keep him in the hospital and keep him under surveillance." And all this nice protective kind of stuff. And, this guy may be really spaced out and really crazy. And, I guess then I start wondering just how sane I am. And that really scares me. Because in a sense in that room I'm not.
COUNSELOR: What's that, what (inaudible) to the question but what does that mean to you what does that feel like that question? Are you sane or not?
PATIENT: What question?
COUNSELOR: Are you sane or not? You said you wondered how sane you are and like I don't get much of a feel for it other than how somebody else would describe it. But like what's...
PATIENT: Um, it's a scary question. Because, where I'll admit all kind of weaknesses and unable being unable to cope with reality and stuff like that I have never considered myself insane. And I've never been insane and I've never lost touch with reality or forgotten my responsibilities or something like that. I mean if I plan to kill myself I plan to kill myself on a weekend or when I don't have an appointment the next day. In a sense it's really stupid but in another sense it's like, and it's like I get everything done and I take care I make sure my pets are well cared for. And...
COUNSELOR: It sounds like being very much in touch. 0:16:30.1
PATIENT: It's like really being completely in touch. I never loose in touch for a minute. I never like going off on a tangent and, "Oh I can't stand it anymore," in desperation and just, jumping out a window or something like that. I mean it's like it's like a constant gnawing thing inside me or it was. I don't think it's there right now. I don't guarantee that it's not going to come back. But I mean like the time that I did try and really seriously wanted to kill myself a year and a half ago. It was like I had been thinking about that for so long and, not quite planning it but kind of always keeping it in the back of my mind. And kind of always keeping the pills there so I could do it. I kind of it kind of just built up to it till finally one night I decided this, is just the time. And, it was like would go over it with me afterwards, in fact they yelled at my boyfriend - I guess I had drunk some wine that night or something like that. And, which was because I was still having a lot of pain from the operation and I used to drink wine or just anything that would kill that would take my mind off the pain and I wouldn't get stoned or anything else. But, and just I think they both yelled at him for you know, "Why are you letting her drink wine and have these pills around for?" And, it was like and it was like because of that therefore I didn't know what I was doing and I was really really kind of out of it and that wasn't the case at all. I knew perfectly well absolutely everything I was doing. And, very it was like very carefully arranged and carefully planned for. And, a very deliberate decision however many pros and cons there were for it. And, maybe I should have evaluated more cons than I did. But I had evaluated both. And it was, it really was a rush I'll have to say it. 
COUNSELOR: You know you're saying like it doesn't feel crazy. I'm sorry I interrupted you. 0:19:08.3
PATIENT: No that's, and, I mean in a sense it's the only thing that's crazy that I've ever done. Except for flying off the handle or something like that. Which I would always let myself do and which I could always control if I needed to if I felt the situation warranted it. In fact in a lot of cases I would be the epitome of control and responsibility by taking care of my mother or something like that. I mean my uncle and everybody else had said they couldn't take it anymore. I mean I could just take her by the hand and stick her in the car and tell her to shut up and take her to the hospital. Drive and hold onto her so she didn't get out of the car. And, just handle the situation without any trouble. And whereas it would be fantastically emotional I could just say, "I'm sorry but I didn't have time for emotions right now," and sort of bury them until later when I kind of explode but. I guess it's a kind of insanity that I don't understand. Which it kind of sounds very paradoxical. But, I kind of don't know how to accept it. I kind of don't know how to accept the feelings that I have, or what to do with them, or what they mean. What it means in my role as a physiologist working with other people that are in similar boats. It's kind of all kinds of things like that.
COUNSELOR: Okay when you when you say accept feelings you mean specifically the suicide ones?
PATIENT: Primarily and, not only the suicidal ones but the but the feelings of guilt remorse, shame, etc. which follow acting on in any way a suicide. It's just cutting myself or whether it's really feeling strongly suicidal. And, I mean sometimes I know if I can get them out somehow and get and deal with them and face them, figure out what they're coming from that they'd stop bothering me. 
COUNSELOR: Um hmm. 0:22:00.3
PATIENT: I mean like, on that camping trip that my boyfriend and I took and I got so frustrated because I couldn't talk to him or anything. Like at night when I would be really high in a sense from a really gorgeous day and from being really tired and from there being a beautiful moon and having been a beautiful campfire. And I just wanted to talk to him and I just wanted to share, a whole bunch of feelings with him and he would go to sleep. And I mean, the feelings would be just really overwhelming like, like I asked him where the ax was. And I asked him as if I was worried about somebody coming or something like that I wanted to know where it was. But that wasn't really why I wanted to know. I mean I really wanted to do something with that ax to myself. 
COUNSELOR: Um hmm.
PATIENT: I mean it was like the only weapon that I knew that was there that was sharp and it was dangerous. And, I kind of knew that I wasn't going to do anything but I wanted to so badly. And I mean I could feel it I could imagine it. And it was like it took everything in me in fact I guess that was the night that I had to go for a walk for a really long walk by myself in order to get to get it out of me. And yet I couldn't tell him what I was feeling. And yet I was practically trembling all over from feeling it. And, I knew all it would do would have been to upset him. I don't think I've told him about that yet. I don't think I ever want to. He'd be scared to ever go on a camping trip with me again.
COUNSELOR: Okay. There's some I think distinction I'm struggling for and I don't know whether it's a relevant one for you. Are you saying that part of what is so awful about it is like your reactions and maybe his reactions to being in a state like that? It's like the feelings are very real for you when you're in the middle of them. they take all you have to manage. But like afterwards looking back it feels well I think you said things like guilt and remorse or something like that. Like those feelings are your reactions to being that way are problematic for you is that... 0:24:32.1
PATIENT: It's both I mean it's dealing with the feelings at the time they're happening and, I mean of all feelings they're something you just don't go around telling everybody that you have. I mean even your best friends it scares them. People that you don't care about think you're crazy. And they don't know how to begin to deal with you. And I remember when I was in college and a friend of mine tried to kill herself I was scared to go near her for the next year. And I don't know why. I think somehow I, don't remember anybody else at least showing that they were in any way afraid of her but, I was. And I don't know if it was because you know somehow deep down I really was feeling those things then. Which I'm sure I was looking back on it now. But, or what it was but I don't want others to have that feeling towards me. And so in that sense, you can't ask for help. And you don't know what to do with them yourself. And, it just involves all of you and it's just a totally overwhelming kind of thing. And then in retrospect if you do do something or if you do, or even just looking back on the feelings then I mean I take the roll of every other person and then, that makes it doubly chastisable or something like that. 
COUNSELOR: So it's almost like, it's something I hadn't quite heard in this way before it's like when you don't tell anybody it doesn't do a whole lot it ends up not doing a whole lot for you because you're going to do it to yourself in a sense. Or you're going to, almost like you're going to look at yourself as you're afraid they will. You still have two sets of feelings and reactions to deal with. 0:26:54.1
PATIENT: Yeah. Except I mean at least I'm spared the them looking at me and my not knowing what they're thinking. 
COUNSELOR: Um hmm. You know I mean you know that you're, when you react like the others, that's somehow controllable. 
PATIENT: Yeah but I mean if as long as they don't know what I'm thinking or feeling or have been thinking or feeling or doing then, I'm kind of spared the worrying about what they're thinking about. I mean, part of a really hard time I had this summer going home was that my dear mother because she was so upset that I put her through so much by trying to kill myself last year went crying to all of her friends about it. As a result all of my friends or all of my friends who are children of my mother's friends who some of my best friends are you know all have the story in one way or another. And so, I asked my mother, "Did you tell anybody?" "Oh no I didn't say a word to anybody." And it was my uncle that told me. I guess he had driven to the airport to come down to see me when they called her and said I was going to die. And, she, I don't know what she said to him but she swore to me on a stack of bibles that she'd made up some kind of excuse for why she was coming down like that I was hemorrhaging or something like that. Which I had done for the duration of  the operation so that it wasn't implausible. And, he told me afterwards. And the reason he told me was that he just said that he would be of any help to me that he could be. That was all he was going to make of it. And he was really the only person that I could accept as knowing. And, as because I knew that he still accepted for it and he still respected me. 0:29:10.5
COUNSELOR: Is this the is this the man who died recently? Hmm. Must really I mean I heard you say before that that you really cared about him. But it just sort of striked me as a real real loss.
PATIENT: Yeah. I mean it was like somebody that I always cared about but in the last year, was really the only person that I could turn to for my own problems and could find support against my mother's problems. I could identify with his philosophy on everything. Just political personal, political everything. And it was just, just love his daughter like a sister. And, I mean really, I guess was the first person that I really saw any chance of communicating with, after a really long time. So that, yeah it was like really a loss in a whole whole bunch of ways. As far as personal, there's nobody at all that I can that even comes close to taking his place. Maybe one girlfriend that I can talk to sometimes. That's about all. But, like my father still calls me all the time. And every time he calls me he asks me how I am. And, I mean I know I've caused him a fantastic amount of worry, and he's still worrying about me. And he and my mother used to call back and forth about, how I was doing. Until he finally realized she was in worse shape than I was and stopped listening to her. But, she would call and go into these long tirades about how she was worried about me and how I had all these freaky friends and she was sure I was on dope. And which I never was and which I don't know if he believed or not. And, I mean he was brought up very strict and very conservative and very puritanical. He's gotten somewhat more liberal but, it was like I mean it was the worse, in a lot of ways it was like really fantastic blow to him, for his feeling towards me. Somehow my mother kind of took my trying to kill myself as a front to her and like how could I do this to her. Whereas my father was really genuinely concerned about me and he still is.
COUNSELOR: Um hmm. 0:32:16.0
PATIENT: Except that it's a concern that frightens me because it makes me too responsible to him for my life. And I don't want to be. And, I mean I really feel like in some ways like I really like talking to him and I like going home and stuff like that. But, on the other hand I feel this real strain. He is spending all of his time worrying about me. Like if I don't write him he'll call and say, "How are you? How is your work coming? Have you made up your incompletes?" Just somehow he's, I've got to be in some kind of a nice little secure cozy niche, carefully protected and carefully cared for kind of before he'll stop worrying about me. 
COUNSELOR: Yeah on that constant, like you're saying he needs to constantly reassured and that really pulls on you. Like that's not a that's not a good framework in which to tell somebody how you are in a sense.
PATIENT: I mean, whenever he calls I have to suddenly be fine. No matter what's going on I have to be in really good shape and, and just really be on top of things. And, rack my brain to try think of something good and happy that I've done so I can tell him about it.
COUNSELOR: Yeah. It's like he's concerned about you but it really frightens him unless you he says unless he feels you are a certain way. Like when he says, "How are you?" He doesn't really want to know. What he wants to know is one particular thing.
PATIENT: Yeah. Well he wants to know either that I am bad and therefore what can he do. 
COUNSELOR: Um hmm.
PATIENT: Like should he take the next plane out here or something like that. Which is the last thing that I want. Or that I am okay and therefore he can be reassured and he can stop worrying about me for a little while longer.
COUNSELOR: Um hmm. But that feels like, as you say it feels like you're a burden on him and he's a burden on you in a sense. Like he carries this concern around and then you have to answer for the answer to the concern (inaudible). 0:34:46.9
PATIENT: Yeah. Well the thing is that I feel tremendously sorry for him. And, it's like somehow he's never gotten what he wanted out of life. And he's always played the role of being the only son and the youngest child. And trying to live up to all these expectations and becoming a lawyer because his father wanted him to become a lawyer and hating it. And not being a good lawyer as a result. And working for the government which he's not that keen on. And, sort of sticking with his fundamentalist church because it was kind of the value system that he'd grown up with and the only thing that gave him any source of identity or sense of purpose or anything else. And like now he's going through all kinds of problems with my little brother who's eight and a half. And with two kids that he's adopted and, who are five and six I guess. And, the problems are because my little brother has been emotionally messed up ever since he was two years old. And, but my father and stepmother have tried not to see it. And he's really asocial and any kid is going to be jealous when two new kids come into the house but this, is like, it's a really hard thing and I've been trying, they'll turn to me and say, "What can we do?" And I've told them like if they at first they said, "Can you test Johnny? Can you find out what's wrong with him?" I said, "It's not Johnny. It's the interaction between all of you and Johnny and I've seen it for a long time." And I said, "That you should get to a competent family therapist, that can talk that can work with all of you. Because it's not just Johnny's problems. And that if you don't get working with him now that it's not just because these new kids are coming. That he's going to have trouble all of his life." And it's like some and I said, "It's not hopeless. Something can be done about it. It's not that you've done something in particular wrong." Which of course they'll immediately turn around and blame themselves for. And the main thing they've done wrong is that they've let their lives revolve around him, completely. And felt very inadequate as human beings themselves which has been transformed to him. And I mean I can see it and it hurts me to be in the situation with it because I can't feel like one of the family because their family is so screwed up. I keep wanting to come in and say, "Stop talking to Johnny like that." That's just going to screw him up even more. And the last, things were okay when I left. I visited them in September when I went home for a friend's wedding. They were kind of optimistic that things were going to get better. And he just wrote me this the last letter he wrote me which I didn't answer because I really wanted to take some time and answer it was things like maybe he's just too old. And just really giving up and it's really beyond his power. 0:38:18.2
COUNSELOR: You mean to help himself or to get feel any different?
PATIENT: To help him, to get the family together. To make anything of his family. I mean he sees in me a fantastic failure. I mean I was his only child for 16 years. 
COUNSELOR: Oh I'm sorry I thought you meant your brother wrote you a letter (inaudible).
PATIENT: No no, my brother is only eight and he doesn't write letters to me, much he draws strange pictures.
COUNSELOR: Right. That's what I thought. Okay.
PATIENT: No my father wrote me a letter and said that he thought he was too maybe, that things still weren't working out for him. Maybe it was just that he was too old. He looks so much older than he is. People keep teasing him about being his son's grandfather. And that gets to him but he takes it, and turns it against himself. And it's like I feel like I'm just one more burden on him. And I feel like I need to be a position, he needs my help more than I need his help. But he can't see that and I can't tell him that. And, at the same time I've got to have him somehow feel like a successful father. And like that he hasn't failed with me which he, like he'll bring up things like maybe he should have taken me away from my mother a long time ago. Which is a good argument because she's been really messed up for a long time. And, he'll sort of build up self incriminations with that (inaudible). And there's so many, I can't call him a burden to me because I feel so sorry for him. And I feel like he's in so much need of help.
PATIENT: Um hmm.
COUNSELOR: And, but it does like I don't feel guilty for I've done to my mother. In a lot of ways I feel she deserves it. And I think that everything I've become that's bad I think she's at least in a lot of senses responsible for. And I mean that's not an excuse for it and I know I've got to work it out in my own way, but that's where I get the feelings from. And yet to my father I'm some kind of a strange beast that he doesn't know how to deal with. And he was brought up this starch Episcopalian and I was brought up this Catholic. And just from the beginning I was somehow always alienated from him. And he didn't know quite how to deal with me. And I could never quite tell the (inaudible). 0:41:10.1
COUNSELOR: But it sounds like as you're saying that that's like that's kind of a sad situation but I don't hear you saying that you really, or I hear you saying, "Look I don't resent his needing me."
PATIENT: I don't.
COUNSELOR: Like, "I feel like I would like to help. In fact I'd like to help more."
PATIENT: Um hmm that's just it...
COUNSELOR: "Or I'd like to him recognize that I could help him."
PATIENT: I mean that's, that's kind of another case of feeling not resentful but very, ashamed of myself and sorry about my actions because of what they've done to someone that I care about. And, makes me want so badly to get rid of these feelings and get, quote straightened out somehow. I'll be satisfied with myself. I don't want I mean, I don't have this desire to be some kind of ideal for my father or for my mother or for anybody else. Because there's nobody that I respect enough to live up to their ideals for me or to take any of their stricters for me. I know I've got to work it out for myself. And that the life that turns out to be the best me is going to be one that they'll accept as being the best. And that they couldn't have chosen one that was any better, and put me into it. But somehow by being incapable of choosing our life, getting started accomplishing doing, being anything and just being continually just really crippled by these feelings. Then I guess until last week I kept trying to say (inaudible) or it'd gone away or was part of the past. It was just sort of remembering them (inaudible at 0:43:15.6). Except I know damn well (inaudible) stronger. I don't know. 0:43:26.2
COUNSELOR: There was something in that what you just said what was that? I mean there's some I felt some push or some emotion there. Came across like, "Well I shouldn't kid myself or..."
PATIENT: No just, that in the year and a half that I've been supposedly working out things and recovering from one fluke of one act supposedly hasn't really been that at all. It's been a continuation of ups and downs and never getting rid of the feelings that I had when I was in South Carolina. As much as I've told myself that I am rid of them and that, that, the things that I'm doing are positive and, or that I am doing something or I'm on my road to doing, on the on the road or a road to doing something. I haven't begun to work out what was going on, a year and a half ago. What was going on two years before that when I first began to just, think about just bizarre things in the way I did on that camping trip.
COUNSELOR: Do you feel some need to go like to go back to those things? Is that partly what you're saying?
PATIENT: It's not a need to go back to those things per se, it's a need to work out whatever the hell was causing all of them. I mean like, someone dwelling on acts of feeling like killing yourself is not to me (inaudible). And it's very depressing. And it's, I don't know I don't like it.
COUNSELOR: But you're saying I hear you saying, "There is some, well maybe it's not just one thing but there's this lot of things maybe that just remained untouched. And no matter what I tell myself or what I sometimes think I'm doing there's still this..."
PATIENT: Yeah.
COUNSELOR: "...bunch of things that are just lying there and, they make whatever I do feel very unshaky or sort of very shaky or sort of unreal. Until I know what they're about." 0:46:04.4
PATIENT: There's some lot of things that, or way of approach towards life or I don't I don't know how to classify it. It sort of depends what personality school you come out of and I don't really come out of any. It's not like, it might be an event it might be a conflict it might be an unadaptive of style of dealing with people. I don't know just and it might all of those things and portions thereof. But I feel like that, I mean they've continued. I mean the same thing has recurred over and over again in slightly varying forms, for a long time. And, it's still there. And somehow I've got to get through it, or it's going to continue. I can get a good job and I can, I supposedly things will be going okay, or I could be on good terms with a new boyfriend or something like that, just anything to make everything really happy. But somehow deep down it won't be, because it doesn't last. 
COUNSELOR: So like you're not sure maybe a configuration of things or coping styles or whatever you want to call it but, it sounds like you, I'm not sure I like the idea of a foundation or something but that was the image that occurred to me. Like whatever foundation you build is always is always going to have a couple of cracked bricks in it until you have much more of a sense of what those things are. It would even help just to know what they are. 
PATIENT: Yeah. (inaudible) image. Partly I'm questioning the word (ph) foundation.
COUNSELOR: I mean anything you're building right now you're questioning?
PATIENT: Questioning whether there's anything there to build on. Questioning a whole lot of what's there I'm supposedly building on. 
COUNSELOR: Well tell that sounded like part of it's unclear for lack of clarity about just what goes into that foundation and part of it's kind of suspicion or lack of trust in whatever it is. Maybe that's too much of a (inaudible) separation. 0:49:25.2
PATIENT: Like the (inaudible) foundation is sort of (inaudible). It's a whole bunch of wishes and ifs and maybes and possibilities and dreams and fears and, it's not substantial at all. And I don't know how to make it substantial. And kind of the little things that I've been doing, I haven't really been giving them any substance. I mean there's nothing that I've done in several years to give it any substance. 
COUNSELOR: You know like it would feel better if you thought, "Well at least some of it is started on." But it sounds like anything, I don't know that you might be able, I don't want to over word this, it's like there's something you don't trust in the things that you start because they don't seem, like something some other thing has to come first. I'm not sure what I'm groping for maybe some other just feeling or, feeling of confidence or direction I don't know. But like just little concrete things that you've started does count for you right now. They don't feel like building foundation (inaudible).
PATIENT: Yeah they're not related to me.
COUNSELOR: Hmm. They're just little discreet hunks of...
PATIENT: Yeah. I mean like even spending a happy evening with my boyfriend is, it's completely isolated. It has no beginning and it's got no continuation. It was just there and I was happy for it. But I don't see it as pretending anything. I don't see it as an indication of any change in my life really. It was just something I was glad for awhile that existed. 0:51:55.5
COUNSELOR: Um hmm. It makes me think of this - I don't know if you've seen this advertisement for the telephone company they were using it in Time magazine and stuff last year - and it shows, it has this (inaudible) blue sky and it shows these people sitting like this and each one in this in a little capsule. So that the whole, it's a double page ad and it's just all these people sitting all crunched up each inside it's own little case and that's kind of the feeling I got right there. These events for you are like that. Like there you two are in this little capsule but that has nothing to do with what will happen to you tomorrow. It's like they just those things just sort of come. 
PATIENT: Yeah. 
COUNSELOR: I guess we better stop.
PATIENT: Yeah.
END TRANSCRIPT
