TRANSCRIPT OF AUDIO FILE:
___________________________________________________________________________________
BEGIN TRANSCRIPT:
COUNSELOR: ...324-006, Interview Number 13, Client 0324-006, Interview Number 13.
PATIENT: Sorry I haven't come in so long. I guess I was just really ambivalent whenever I was here the last time. And then whenever I called and said I couldn't come the first time I had a legitimate excuse, and then it was just easier not to call... 
COUNSELOR: Yeah.
PATIENT: ...than it was to try to decide whether to come here.
COUNSELOR: Yeah, I hope it's or I'd like to make clear, like I've, I didn't know what was going on and I felt like because of my recollection of what we were talking about the last time that maybe you were feeling two ways about it. I just kind of wanted to get that straight. I wasn't annoyed because you weren't coming or anything like that or if my letter had that tone in it at all, it wasn't that.
PATIENT: Well, I just sort of...expected you just to go on and get another client and just sort of forget about me because, I mean, I was the one that hadn't called, so that was cool.
COUNSELOR: Okay. Yeah, I really feel like it's an open, it's like I always like to make sure where people are and I don't want to just assume that they're not going to come. So I feel like it's... 
PATIENT: Yeah.
COUNSELOR: ...very open for us today and I don't expect you to continue or whatever. I just wanted to see if you could work out something.
PATIENT: Right. Well, a lot of it was like, before Christmas I was really, really snowed under with stuff and I had to work every day and I had to work late almost every day, and somehow even just the hour coming here was really a lot. Plus, I was really functioning on, 'let me just get through with work' because I had so many hours that I had to get through by Christmas or I couldn't go home for Christmas, and it was sort of, 'let me just get through that and think about things later'.
COUNSELOR: Yeah.
PATIENT: Mainly I didn't want to think about anything.
COUNSELOR: Yeah.
PATIENT: And much less talk about it...and was just pretty exhausted [inaudible at 0:02:47.0]... 
COUNSELOR: Yeah, I remembered feeling or my recollection is fuzzy and I didn't...I wouldn't go back and listen to that last interview but I remember feeling that you really felt discouraged about what was going here and you were kind of sick of how you were talking and how I was talking and yet we didn't know what to do about it. And I just kind of felt like you were just maybe discouraged and it was hard to... 
PATIENT: Yeah. Well, part of it, maybe because I wasn't in the position to be getting anywhere outside of here, because things needed to settle down until I could just start doing anything different. And, I don't know, also because...I really didn't think I was getting anyplace here as it was. I also didn't think I could afford it at that time... 
COUNSELOR: Yeah.
PATIENT: ...because I was really short of money with presents. And, if I do continue, I could probably just afford to come once a week instead of twice a week, both timing and [inaudible at 0:04:09.9]... It was funny when I got your letter, I had on my little list, like call you whichever day I was going to be off from work that week. And partly I don't know, I felt really like I wanted to come back here. I was really debating about it the whole time, after I got back from Christmas. And it was funny because the time that I decided that I really did want to come back was the time that I felt most together. And most like maybe whatever I, most like maybe just that I could talk, which I can't do when I'm really spaced out kind of or really unsure of myself or [inaudible at 0:05:24.9]... And it's kind of when I've got enough together is just to really start wanting to do things. I'm wanting to stay on top of things I guess that I want to come in.
COUNSELOR: Oh.
PATIENT: And, I don't even remember what I felt so good about. Generally things, it's like Christmas was a total disaster, like they [inaudible at 0:06:01.3]... This week I'm not quite sure that everything will stand just because I'm finally getting really panicked about not having anything to do as with the student and not knowing kind of where to go as far as the university is concerned. Or and like really wanting to get an internship and realizing it's already too late to apply and that I don't have any credentials and more than anything else, wanting just to get out of the city, and just really not knowing where to turn and stuff and asking for advice for anything was hard.
COUNSELOR: You mean like information type advice about your job is?
PATIENT: Yeah. And well, it's just very and I mean, once you go another, how I should get there, they're kind of, "Oh, God, learning experience and working experience is what I want." I just don't like it (ph).
COUNSELOR: It sounds like there are many, that right now, are many, many more external or suddenly, it sounds like... 
PATIENT: Yeah.
COUNSELOR: ...external pressures really?
PATIENT: It's like it was something, somehow I've had, oh, I know. It's like last week my mother decided to really occupy me the whole week, like I only went to work one day. And so I sort of just got over that this week and started, just sending out postcards to get applications and materials, information on internships and stuff like that, as of yesterday morning, Monday, yeah, Monday, no, Sunday I guess, Sunday evening. And like I got started typing them and I knew I had been putting it off and I didn't know exactly why. And I got like halfway through two of them and each postcard, I was sort of making more typographical errors. And I suddenly started thinking, "God, you don't even know if you want to do this and you don't think they'll accept you even if you do." And it was just kind of an overwhelming, 'how am I going to get everything done that I want to do and what am I going to do next year?' And I was completely out of the university and I just...just not knowing where I am. [0:09:13.9]
COUNSELOR: Are you considering leaving the, what's the word, committee or?
PATIENT: I don't know that I have, that there's much advantage to staying. The only, like there's no professor in the clinical department to work under. The only, what I'm really interested in is psyche and [inaudible at 0:09:43.2]... guy there to work under is Blackwell and he's leaving, either in June or August or something like that.
COUNSELOR: Yeah.
PATIENT: And I don't have any money to take courses and I can't really afford to take courses myself. I'm just, I also just don't want to stay around and just take courses... 
COUNSELOR: Yeah.
PATIENT: ...and not be there for the only reason. And I just, I also feel psychologically that I ought to get out of the city, at least for a while, which is why I wanted that internship because then I would have the option of coming back [for a time.] (ph) [0:10:19.2] And anyway that's what I was sort of under like, so I finally, I called my boyfriend [up because I was writing.] (ph) He had (chuckling) spent Saturday night with me and we spent half the day talking and arguing and all sorts of things. And he had tons of work to do and I had tons of work to do and I said, "Just please...when are you going to eat dinner? Can you talk during dinner?" So I ended up [feeling in turn] (ph) that I wouldn't be taking him away from something. I just really panicked and he said, "Okay, start making lists of what you want to do and just...start doing something with it." It sort of helped I think, I mean, gotten better.
COUNSELOR: Is that kind of 'what's going to happen to me' panic, it sounds like to me?
PATIENT: Yeah. What, just, 'what am I going to do' panic.
COUNSELOR: Yeah. And somehow though, some of those little things, sometimes at least, stave it off for a while but, I meant the list making, that could?
PATIENT: Well, more than anything, actually what they do is, actually attack it a little bit, because what I usually do is not even, is try to, just not even think about all that I have to do because I know if I do, it's going to overwhelm me so much and I'm going to realize that there's not enough time to do it all and... 
COUNSELOR: Yeah, I was going to say, you immobilized or something?
PATIENT: Yeah. Just, I really get completely paralyzed. And I just didn't [expect to spend] (ph) [0:11:54.3] two years just completely paralyzed and I didn't want to do it again. And, I mean, that's why I didn't come in this morning or didn't want to, I could have, but I guess for the last two nights I've, I just couldn't sleep at all and I'd gone over to his house which was really a lot better because I could relax a little bit more than I could in my own room, but like I slept until two yesterday or something like. And I mean, so I had this great decision that I was going to go to bed at one o'clock last night and I was going to get up at eight this morning when my boyfriend did. So by about four I finally managed to go to sleep or five or something like that and was so out of it and then I walked home this morning. I had just gotten home and walked the dog and everything when I called you and I just, my mind was just so foggy that I didn't even work [on the 12th] (ph) [0:12:55.4] and I hated to telephone (chuckling) and [tell that] (ph) but it's much better now.
COUNSELOR: Yeah. Yeah, and so I'm connecting, just this sense, sort of up with what you were saying before. It sounds like right now you feel it does not do you one bit of good to come here when you're feeling really low because then, my guess about it is, you just have another place where you're not accomplishing anything or you're not doing anything.
PATIENT: Yeah.
COUNSELOR: When you start to be sort of on your way up or feel something positive stirring, then you have another chance of getting, of feeling like you need some work in some sphere or something. Is that sort of what it's like for you?
PATIENT: When I'm, yeah kind of. Also, when I'm on my way up kind of, I have something positive to talk about and some plans in my mind or ideas in my mind, and just talking about them sort of helps to get, I guess, to do them or to see how firm they are or to motivate myself that, in fact, that's the right thing to do and I should keep doing it. I think when I'm really, really down I need more than just somebody listening to me and saying, "Yeah, you're really, really down." I know that and I just...somehow just telling me that again just makes me feel even worse, which is I suspect why things went so badly whenever the last time was I saw you. Because I really needed more, not...advice, "Go do this." But more of a structured, "Okay, let's look at the situation." Kind of thing, with somebody to help me direct my own thinking which is in such a fog, rather than somebody reflecting to me... 
COUNSELOR: Reflecting the fog?
PATIENT: ...what the fog, how much of a fog I feel like I'm in because I know that.
COUNSELOR: Okay. That feels like good information for me because, well, just...I was beginning to feel like, "Geeze, it's really a shame that you feel you sort of have to sit and that you don't get anything done. And if there is something that we do in here that is more help than just reflecting back, fine." And I...I know how that feels.
PATIENT: Yeah.
COUNSELOR: It's not very good and it's, I mean, it makes me mad after a while.
PATIENT: Yeah.
COUNSELOR: So like I'd like to know something you might be able to try. I don't know whether that would work now. [0:16:02.5]
PATIENT: I mean, see what of that is...I don't know in a sense how comfortable you feel going outside of the strict client thing or reflecting back kind of thing. But there are times that I really feel like I need something that is a little beyond that. In a lot of ways, partially because I can reflect a lot of my own feelings to myself.
COUNSELOR: Yeah.
PATIENT: But that's it. I can't look outside of them or I'm very into what I'm into. I mean, I can understand very well when I'm going over and over it. That's not always the case either but, during such times it's usually that I haven't talked to anybody, except to just generally convey to my roommates that I'm really depressed and you better stay away.
COUNSELOR: [inaudible at 0:17:01.2]... 
PATIENT: And, what was I going to say? Anyway, that I kind of know how I'm doing. I get angry at myself because I'm feeling that way and I know it's not productive but more than anything else I need something to break the cycle for me.
COUNSELOR: Yeah.
PATIENT: And while it, that like right today, I'm not at that low point or I couldn't be talking to you about it.
COUNSELOR: Yeah.
PATIENT: And I'm not at the high point either. I'm just sort of in between, better than I was at 11 this morning.
COUNSELOR: Yeah. Well, part of that, it's just like I have this image of a person sitting in a swamp or...something they feel caught in. And coming and having feelings reflected is like having, just somebody come and sit with you in the swamp and talk about how bogged down you are.
PATIENT: Yeah. (chuckling)
COUNSELOR: And it was really kind of... 
PATIENT: With how high the gravity (ph) is? (chuckling)
COUNSELOR: Yeah, it's that kind of thing. And like that's, I don't know, it can be depressing, it's going to be frustrating, it can be anger producing, whatever. And it's like it, I don't hear you necessarily saying that you want me to do anything for you but it's more like, "Well, let's just look at it a different way or try to talk about it in a different way."
PATIENT: Yeah.
COUNSELOR: Or something, I mean, something equivalent to a breath of fresh air.
PATIENT: Right. I mean, I really need somebody to...not sit and say, "Okay, this, is what you should do." But within a framework that I can follow and that I can work with, kind of help me to get out of it because, well, in a lot of ways there's, I feel really different from what I felt before Christmas and I'm not sure why. But, and I still got a lot of the same hangups and a lot of the same things are bothering me that I have to work through. I guess really the main difference is that I'm not suicidal and, I mean, I can feel that I'm not, which is...before Christmas I wasn't ready to go out and kill myself the next minute but the feeling was always there. And it was always, I was always fighting it.
COUNSELOR: Yes, it sounds... [0:19:57.4]
PATIENT: And it was always an alternative and it was always an excuse to...why the hell try? And somehow since Christmas I haven't been that way. And it's like again that I've got to use this time that I'm not that way because if I don't I'm liable to get back into a depression and then get that way again and then really have the same problems in just coping with anything, what I did before.
COUNSELOR: Yeah, the feeling I got was, like in terms of energy, is something that must take a lot of energy to fight that off or to have that as an alternative. And like, "Now I not only have the time but I have some energy that's a little freer." Maybe.
PATIENT: Yeah. I want, it's that's really true. It's, in fact, I've been really kind of sorry this last week that it's gotten kind of caught up in just being anxious about what I'm going to do, because like and I'm not being completely circumpathed (ph), because I don't want the energy to go there. And I wanted to go toward changing myself into what I want to be and, but somehow there's the energy to try, which wasn't always there for pain (ph). And it's kind of also an energy to get myself out of things when I get depressed. It's like, "Look, you can sit and feel sorry for yourself when tomorrow's over, two days, and what's it going to get you?" Because I still feel...I still feel like I can do that. And I still have fights with my boyfriend and I can get really angry and feel really depressed. And have fights with my roommate, I'll have her be depressed and I don't see why. And in a sense it's a really fantastic feeling to sort of say to myself, "Quit." I mean, everywhere I realize that my response to a situation is, while it's natural and while it's what I really feel like responding to a depressing situation kind of thing, is really pathological and it's really childish in a lot of ways, extreme in a very unfruitful way and generally is just going to sort of feed on itself, rather than get me out of it. As much as it's more, feels [as a bunch of this, is easy for my friend to do.] (ph) [0:23:30.2] It hasn't always worked but it's worked somewhat in that, like I'll be really upset about something and I'll just, my roommate has gotten really better with that, just being around too. And we've both realized that we're both very much alike, we both are very moody. And we'll both sit in turn and go into our rooms for two days, each of us feeling like the other one has done, like if she goes into her room I feel like I've done something to cause it and vice versa, and she finally comes out, I'll say, "Well, what did I do?" And she'll say, "Well, you didn't do anything. I was worried about so and so." But the main thing about that being that, and I hope to hell I can keep doing it [and so] (ph) I started asking other people to talk to me. Which was like just calling your boyfriend and asking him to come over for dinner, maybe [inaudible at 0:24:44.0]... or something. And when I realized that what happened was I just started typing these postcards and I got worse and worse and more and more frustrated and I ended up just quitting and just lying on the bed and just feeling completely paralyzed. And I knew like, I could've lain on that bed that whole night, from whenever it was, seven o'clock on and just not accomplished a thing and just completely worried. And I just, it was at that time that I just got up and said..., "I can't do that and I've got to..." At the same time I couldn't keep typing because I knew that I was not in any shape for that, but I also knew I had to get myself out of that state of mind. And I've sort of, I've asked my roommate a few times, whenever, well I've just...been really uptight about something or just been dealing with something that I really wasn't sure of how to deal with and the feelings that I wasn't sure how to deal with. And it's funny, whenever she's dealing with me, she's very hardheaded and reality oriented and really great.
COUNSELOR: Yeah.
PATIENT: When she starts talking about her own problems, she's just as [overlapping voices at 0:26:12.1]... as I am. Jen and I don't have any qualms (ph).
COUNSELOR: But that really, it sounds to me, I mean, that really feels good to hear you say that because it, I'm wondering does it also feel as good to be able to do it? To say to somebody... 
PATIENT: Oh, yeah.
COUNSELOR: "Look..."
PATIENT: It feels fantastic.
COUNSELOR: Yeah.
PATIENT: For one thing it, the thing is it's like, it's a willingness to say, "Okay, I can't solve things alone." Not, and it's also of recognition that by asking somebody just to talk to you, you're not being a passive kind of thing at saying, "Help me, I can't do anything."
COUNSELOR: You're not being a clinger?
PATIENT: You're asking them to get you straightened, to help you get yourself straightened up, because they can't do it for you but they can help you start thinking along some better ways.
COUNSELOR: I'm interested, is that working out better with your boyfriend also?
PATIENT: Generally, yeah, it's not perfect but it's, because and I found out actually, the times that it's the very worse are when he's really depressed, so that a lot of it isn't me.
COUNSELOR: That must be a realization?
PATIENT: Which, yeah, it really is. Like and the only two really bad times we've had this week, which is not bad considering we've been together a whole lot and we had a couple of really marvelous times... 
COUNSELOR: Yeah.
PATIENT: ...were when he was really depressed about something but he didn't even know that he was really depressed about something. And it wasn't until I...was just at wit's end and I had this really strong feeling to just get angry and hurt for his not paying attention to me. Kind of and running, which would have, I've discovered, not brought out the best in him either, which would have made him feel even more ambivalent and more, like he didn't know how to relate to people, which is really a hangup of his anyway. And instead I just sort of started asking him, like I discovered like just, well, a lot of times just focusing on how bad he feels doesn't work. And I just started asking him objective questions..., "How's the office?" And God, he must have talked for an hour and a half about the office, (chuckling) like he was so upset about the whole thing. And he told...at the end of it he says, "My God, this, is so much better." [0:29:17.6]
COUNSELOR: Yeah.
PATIENT: He said, "Thank you for forcing it out of me." Which I hadn't really but it was like I just had to get him talking about something.
COUNSELOR: Now it sounds like you've learned a way of, well, this will sound mushy, but helping him or like... 
PATIENT: In a sense. In a sense he's in a lot of the same bind I am, as far as not talking to people about anything personal at all. And also, he's become a lot more sensitive I think. A lot of it's just sort of growing since the time after Thanksgiving, when I said, "Please don't treat me like I'm sick because then I'll act like it." And he's been a lot better about it, at not treating me like I'm sick. And I'd say that's true. I'm thinking, "Oh..." Anyway, this thing about my mother, it's just some motive of digression but not completed because it's all been mixed up in the last two weeks. She was in the hospital over Christmas, which I was really glad about because I knew she, for the last two Christmases she's been really bad and I was afraid she would try to kill herself or something. And she had, she was in the VA Hospital, so she had somebody there call me since she was on restriction for use of the phone, to say, "Please go to my father's for Christmas." Which I was planning to do anyway. I just couldn't take, to wherever, I will not stay with her at this point, because it just does too much to me. And then I really didn't hear any more about, oh, I guess after Christmas sometime she called me. She had just gotten out of the hospital and she was drunk and, "Could I please send her money?" And I told her no, that she'd have to go for unemployment. And I was just really, I mean, I've discovered I just have to be this way because as long as I keep giving her handouts, what I do is I send money to her friend and her friend pays the necessary bills and stuff for her. Because as long as she can just sort of say, "Help me." She won't do anything she hasn't done for five months. But I was, I was really angry with her and I was really harsh. And I was just really yelling at her, just..., "Get yourself straightened out and stop staying around home drinking. And don't expect me to just keep sending you money when you know you just keep spending it on booze and don't do anything to help yourself. I can't help you."
COUNSELOR: You (ph) must have felt very punitive doing that even though it was, felt right?
PATIENT: Yeah, I mean, I felt like it was the necessary thing to do, right at the same time felt guilty [inaudible at 0:32:28.8]... Anyway, she called me about a week or three days later or something like that. It was about Saturday night a week ago, and she said, she was all crying and everything but she sounded pretty good and she said, well, she just called to say goodbye, she was going to kill herself. And I started talking to her and...she said she didn't know what she could do about this feeling that she wanted to kill herself. And...I said, "Listen, you have a lot of friends that are...want you to get better and you can't do it by yourself but if you could just go and see a doctor and there are a lot of really good places that you can go and just get yourself feeling better." For one thing she's so run down physically, I don't know how she can get straight. So she promised me she would go to a hospital that night. Which was a bunch of lies because her best friend called me the next morning sometime and told me she had just gotten a phone call from my mother and she was in Italy. And my mother had always told all of us, maybe once but not always... 
COUNSELOR: Wait, your mother went to Italy?
PATIENT: She'd been telling every one of us for...several months that all she wanted to do was go to Italy and die. And of course, which was another reason I wasn't sending her any money. In fact, it was, she started talking about it last summer, at which point I closed out our joint savings account and took all of our family money and put it in a savings account in my name so she couldn't get at it. And just because her best friend worked in the bank and had kept up with what she was spending her money on and stuff and said, "You know, with this money we'll be worried about her just taking off for Italy." So I took all the money so she couldn't do it. So, and I guess...I was just petrified as of Sunday. And that was when I sat down with my roommate and said, "Look, what should I do?" And she was very...good as far as, "Well, there's not much you can do but maybe you can write to her and sort of look at it in a positive way and say, 'Well...maybe this, is a good thing and maybe it will be a change.'" And in a sense do everything that I've been asking people to do for me, I haven't done with her and stop looking at her as pathological, even if she is, but start looking at the healthy side of her. Since I couldn't grab her and put her in a hospital anywhere, I had to trust her to come back. [To say, "You need this to say last recourse really is."] (ph) [0:35:26.5] And I anyway, my boyfriend came over Sunday. Well, I just, he had just called me. It was a Sunday night call or something like that and I guess, no, I guess I called him and I just asked him if he would just come over and stay that night, just because or that I felt...okay and felt better after talking to my roommate, that I would feel better if he were there, and he just, he came and was just very nice about it. And we didn't really talk that much but I just kind of felt good that he had come and had even wanted to come.
COUNSELOR: You sense that he's not like afraid or wary of you so much that you're used to being concerned about?
PATIENT: He's a lot less. Partly I haven't given him reason to be in a long time. There's still some of it there and he still compares me or thinks of me [inaudible at 0:36:45.1]... I guess the first girlfriend he every had is this, I don't know, a 32 or 33-year-old, really neurotic woman in Texas that keeps writing to him when she gets really desperate, and she wants to marry him and has wanted to marry him ever since she met him probably. And she's a lot, she's worse than I am overtly anyway and, but evidently has made a lot of demands on him that he couldn't reach. And just, I think it would be easier for him if he didn't have this image of her and me as being similar, and it's, I mean, it's gotten better. And I think a lot of it is, if I don't, I've got to not worry about it myself.
COUNSELOR: Worry about the effect you're having on him you mean?
PATIENT: Because when I do that I start having the effect and I [overlapping voices at 0:37:56.2]... start feeling real small.
COUNSELOR: Like a reciprocal tension thing?
PATIENT: Yeah.
COUNSELOR: You know, you get worried about it and you feel that anxiety or something. I'm a firm believer in that.
PATIENT: That's really true. And anyway, what was I going to say? Oh, so I got a letter from mother on Wednesday, I guess that she had mailed just before she left that was really, in fact, my boyfriend and it was, in a sense it was really nice. We all, I was planning a dinner party that night. It was a small dinner party, where former roommates of my boyfriend's and mine were coming over, who are not husband and wife, and my boyfriend and I knew them. And I was supposed, they always come over once every three months when the guy needs a haircut and it's the only time we see them but we have this party after. So I had, actually I had come home from work early that day because I was really exhausted, having not slept the night before. And I just got this letter and it was just, it was sad. It was saying, "Those were harsh words that you used last week." Or I guess she had written it before she even talked to me, the night before she left for Italy and which didn't start out...very good. And then she went on to say...that she just had to do this and that the guy that she'd been going with had thrown her over and, which is the excuse she's been giving us for the last six months or so, is that this guy she was going with wouldn't marry her because he was married to somebody else and he was, [I take it,] (ph) [0:39:55.6] Roman Catholic and would never get a divorce. And then she just started describing the fact that she'd been pregnant and that she, since her boyfriend had thrown her over, she couldn't have the baby. So she had this name of this abortionist in California. And I don't, and she sounded like she didn't even know abortion was legal in California. And this was the name of a guy my uncle, who died this summer, had given her last January, when she thought she was pregnant then and wasn't. And then she just went into really gruesome detail about it. That she'd gone to California and she wasn't completely asleep and she was screaming for the doctor to stop, and that, then she saw the remains of this fetus in a jar or something like that.
COUNSELOR: And whether or not that was really real, it does sound gruesome, the fetus.
PATIENT: I mean, it was described very realistically.
COUNSELOR: Yeah.
PATIENT: I talked to her friend, the best friend, this weekend and she said she had also told her about it, I guess in a letter the same time she told me about it. She didn't know how it could be true, mostly because she didn't know when she could've gone to California to get this done, and it could very well all have been a figment of her imagination, but it was the most realistic thing that you could ever imagine.
COUNSELOR: Yeah. 
PATIENT: And when I read the letter, I did not think of it as a figment of her imagination but I thought of it as completely true.
COUNSELOR: Yeah.
PATIENT: And anyway, this was that she had always wanted to have a child by this guy, the boyfriend who also, who had never had children. And then she killed it and she'd felt so bad afterward that she just did nothing but drink. And...she...she just didn't really know any other grief recourse but just to be, [get tired] (ph) and die. And then anyway, I just I was just, it was such, it was a really, if you think of the letter as just written by a somewhat sane person, which it sounds unfortunately, it's easy to talk to her, it's easy to deal with her when she's really an alcoholic or really talking crazy or something, but this was just, it was really frightening. It was really pitiful. She also, almost the same day, there arrived a packet of like my baby pictures that she had collected and... 
COUNSELOR: Oh. [0:43:04.0]
PATIENT: ...sent to me as...the final papers that she was disposing of, so to speak. And which were also, was very sad because they were...pictures of her when she was really a marvelous mother, which she was. And...all I could do was just feel really sorry for her.
COUNSELOR: Yeah.
PATIENT: Feel somewhat guilty for not being able to do anything. At that time, not knowing whether she was alive or dead, because this was Wednesday and she'd been gone through Sunday and [inaudible at 0:43:40.7]... And I just, my boyfriend came over early before dinner and I just showed him, I just handed him the letter and he didn't say a word. And we had a really nice dinner. I was really glad, like I had just managed to sort of put it out of my mind. And he asked me after dinner, after everybody else had left, if I wanted him to stay. Which was really nice, because I don't even think I was going to ask him again, and even told him, yeah. And, I guess it's like through, I know I started talking about this. It's like, for once...he'd heard me getting upset about my mother when...just after I had talked about her, talk to her on the phone. With something like that I'd be really messed up, especially, in the early stages when I wasn't used to the phone calls and hadn't gotten hardened to them in a sense.
COUNSELOR: Yeah.
PATIENT: But I guess for once...just in his reading of the letter he said, he could see why she was a writer. It was a really, really powerful letter.
COUNSELOR: Yeah.
PATIENT: I mean, I can't describe it to you. I can describe details but I can't describe the style.
COUNSELOR: Yeah, it's kind of [power I guess.] (ph) [0:45:09.8]
PATIENT: And I mean, he was visibly very, very moved by it and very saddened by it. And I think it was kind of the first time he really had any contact with what I was dealing with, as something really real to me. And it was like, for once he didn't blame me for getting upset, and in fact, I was... 
COUNSELOR: He finally came up with the stimulus, not your response to it?
PATIENT: Yeah. Right. That's really true. And it's like I wasn't even visibly...very upset. I was just sort of numb. And I wasn't even going to mention it after, I was just going to go to bed and just be glad he was there. And then he sort of started talking about it, and in fact, he actually said or...started talking about...what did I think I could do about it? Or in effect, initiating a conversation and indicating that he really understood about what was in [inaudible at 0:46:28.8]... And I felt really good as far as, for once really feeling like he was with me. And that like I could cry, which I finally did, which was really good, and feel like it was the right thing to do. And sort of have him holding me and realizing why I was crying, I mean, it was legitimate.
COUNSELOR: It sounds more like something that you were able to share with him, rather than feeling you laid it on him and had to then... 
PATIENT: Yeah.
COUNSELOR: ...hold it back or something, like he was really there to be with you?
PATIENT: It really was. And I mean, as it turned out my mom had come back Saturday or Sunday I guess, which I was totally glad of, but he said...maybe if I had a couple of [inaudible at 0:47:31.0]... with her she might stay, that I'd called her boyfriend. And he said...he realized how I felt and how I felt really helpless. And he said..., "Do you feel like you want to go over there?" Which I was just amazed...I had certainly considered it, but I was amazed that he would even mention it, because it's not the kind of thing that, he's just very pragmatic kinds of things and you don't go traipsing all over the country or all over the world for somebody. And he said...he would be glad to lend me all of the savings that he had to get over there and stuff like that I mean. And...I said, well, I'd probably take off from work the next day and at least try to track her down in Italy and investigate the possibilities of flying there and how much it costs and where you could go and get out as much money as I could. I had lots of money but my checking account was out of town, so. And it turns out, I tracked her down to where she had been but not where she was. And I had called the same person, so I told them that I just...kind wanted to wait to hear from them before I could go. Saturday morning he went to the bank with me and took out his savings but I just wrote him a check and bought travelers' checks. They were just so that I would have them and just so that I would have them for me to be ready to go. And it was really good. I mean, it really, in a sense I was really a wreck all last week and I really, well I couldn't do anything, except try to be ready to go and get vaccinations and make sure my passport was renewed and everything else.... 
COUNSELOR: Yeah.
PATIENT: ...in case I had to leave that night. But it was just really good that I wasn't impatient, I mean, with this [inaudible at 0:50:01.7]... 
COUNSELOR: It's like through all that horror there was, I get the feeling that there was something that you knew was there, namely...and it, I don't know, you could trust that for a while?
PATIENT: Yeah. And I've got to be really careful, like I've got to not depend on him too much. And I've got to realize that it's a really very limited relationship in a lot of ways. Like he's leaving in June and I can only get so close to him by then, and if I try to overstep those bounds, then he would, [then he's to run and then I'd be an independent person.] (ph) [0:51:00.5] But right now it's really good. Well, it's really a good [goal for me.] (ph) And I guess what I'm struggling with mostly now is staying strong in independence, kind of. And dealing, I guess in some ways, dealing with the difference between independence and social withdraw, which I've sadly messed up in the past. I sort of, the only way I think of to deal with say, what I felt is my boyfriend's rejection, was to say, "Okay, the hell with you. I don't want to see you again." And I would...survive very well not seeing him again. But I would have this seething anger inside me and I would end up not wanting to see anybody, and just kind of realizing that was not very fruitful.
COUNSELOR: Yeah, it's almost like both independence and withdraw have an apartness about them, but there's something very different about them. I mean, like when you're independent you still have, I'm just talking off the top of my head but it, what occurs to me is, when you're independent you still have contact with people and social withdraw is just truncating all of that. Now that's one difference I see. I don't know if that's how it is with you.
PATIENT: Yeah. Independence also has the whole aspect of being really whole within yourself and being able to go out and do things and deal with people very well. It's like you can meet anybody on anybody's terms, kind of a thing. Social withdraw has the feeling like, of [overlapping - phone ringing at 0:53:22.2]... 
COUNSELOR: I'm sorry. - Hello. Yeah. Look, can I, can you call... Can you call me back in five minutes? Thanks.
PATIENT: It's like a pressure that you can't break. It's almost like a little kid going in his room sulking. That your whole identity or your whole worth at that moment depends, it revives (ph) around your decision not to talk to anybody or not to see anybody, and it becomes a fantastic effort to do anything. I mean, you don't feel like doing anything yourself even, at least nothing that involves going outside, leaving your old boundaries.
COUNSELOR: What, are you saying that your identity really revolves around doing something, is tied up in doing this negative thing? Is that what you're saying?
PATIENT: Yeah. I mean, like all of your energy is involved in staying away from people and it, or like staying away from those that had first made you angry, if it's your boyfriend or your roommate or something like that. And then it sort of carries over to really feeling negative about everybody, and I really feel like I've used that an awful, awful lot, where I just, I'm...in escaping. I really didn't feel like talking to anybody, even feel like writing to anybody. I mean, it wasn't independence, not in the positive sense of the word. It was feeling every kind of negative feeling about myself. It was more or less feeling, somewhat feeling unready to talk to people or I'm incapable of talking to them in any kind of acceptable manner. Like you just, they were in another world from you. [Some things I've thought of are] (ph) [inaudible at 0:56:08.7]... [silence from 0:56:19.3 to 0:56:31.6] There's somewhat of an element of threat to you in which you [never deal with anybody] (ph), and that just made you feel, I don't know, even worse.
COUNSELOR: Is that time sort of like with your talking about, you have to maintain your identity, you felt you had to like hold yourself in? And I wondered if that was what, where you sensed the threat? Or you had to keep yourself away from people? I'm not sure, I think I put it in different words than you did.
PATIENT: No, you put it in the same words that I did or like you got across the same meaning that I did. But there's something of those feelings that I was trying to think what it was that this withdraw kind of thing did. I guess in a sense, yeah, in a sense it sort of reinforced for yourself, your basic difference with everybody else, be it inequality, be it inferiority or superiority, depending on the thing, on the aspect of it, making it very difficult to learn from other people. To just have any kind of daily interaction with other people. To substantiate your own existence by their recognition of you. I mean, I thought in a sense it's the wrong, kind of being different from other people.
COUNSELOR: Yeah, because it sounds like, I'm not sure about it yet. It's like but everything functions. The unrealized separateness [audio blanks from 0:58:47.5 to 0:58:59.4]... like the, a part that is but there was something there, it would be something very threatening about opening yourself to reach out or... 
PATIENT: Yeah.
COUNSELOR: ...to let someone else in? And it gets very vicious it sounds like or enclosed?
PATIENT: It functioned to be, to create what I think was almost a paranoia or not, would be in a very broad extension of the term, not that you were suspicious of everybody else really, but that you were living in a different world from everyone else. Which made it really difficult to ask anybody for help or to talk to anybody, which is kind of what has started and which, if you're really withdrawn from them, you really, you can't see them as being able to understand you, at all or being able to offer you anything. And so you don't use other people or relate to other people, and you in effect, negate the whole social side of you, which I'm beginning to realize is like the important thing.
COUNSELOR: Sorry to cut you off, we're going to have to stop.
PATIENT: No, right. I just am glad that I... 
COUNSELOR: Yeah. [inaudible]... 
PATIENT: ...finished trying to figure out what I was thinking though. [1:00:26.6 - End of Audio]
END TRANSCRIPT
