TRANSCRIPT OF AUDIO FILE:
_______________________________________________________________________________________
BEGIN TRANSCRIPT:
THERAPIST: Interview Number 9, Client 0324-006,. ... in here.
I want to share a reaction I had that puzzled me over the weekend, and that was after you called up on Friday and I had made another appointment. Like I didn't feel right after I hung up, and I knew that... I... my mind said, "Yes, she said it was okay.", but I somehow... I was worried that it wasn't okay and that you had maybe said okay when it wasn't. And that sounds like I'm... I'm suspicious, but I thought about it awhile, and let me say what I thought. 
I think what it made me think of finally was times when you've described situations where you haven't said something to somebody, and like maybe that made me worry, "Was that one of those times?" Guess I need to check that out with you. That's kind of warm.
CLIENT: No, that's probably the truth. What... what had happened was... was mostly that I don't... can't remember now what kind of mood I was in on Fri... It was Friday wasn't it? 
THERAPIST: Yeah.
CLIENT: But somehow... well, I was... I know I was... was really tired. I hadn't gone to sleep all night Thursday night, and I decided I couldn't... I might not be in very good shape to talk, but somehow that was more of a rationalization to me, and it was... somehow I... there was... I was like really... this was while I was at work. I was really depressed and kind of really didn't want to talk to you or I... I was kind of really... it would have been easier to cop out and so thinking that... that I might want to cop out... that I... while I was still at work, I called you to tell you that I couldn't come and somehow thinking about it driving home, I remember (1) got wide awake and number (2) decided that... that it really had been a cop-out, and I did manage to get home earlier than I thought I was going to. And it was kind of more and more going home I realized [2:36] that I kind of broke in to then wanting to talk to you, and so I just sort of came right over here and decided, "Well, I'll just see if she's in.", but I... I knew that you had wanted to leave early anyway and I thought, "Well, since I called she's probably going to go on and leave". So I sort of didn't let myself expect that you would be here, and so in that sense when I said, "It was okay.", that I meant it because I had certainly told you that I wasn't coming and... and I should have left it at that, and I just thought, "Well, if by any chance she's still there and there's time to see her, okay, but if not then, okay, too". Okay.
THERAPIST: Okay. I've... I've got it. (silence) Well, I guess I kind of... like in a way I hear you saying, "Well, still it (inaudible at 3:35)."
CLIENT: You use this?
THERAPIST: Yeah, that's fine. I... I need to get a footstool that I can use when I have a skirt on. Is that coming in?
CLIENT: (chuckles)
THERAPIST: Pull it this way and I can use it. Yeah, in a way it makes me... it makes me feel kind of sad, because like I had no... I had just a vague sense afterwards that there... that something wasn't right, and I didn't have it enough even at the time to... I can remember saying, "Is it really all right?", which I was I guess like a lead-in to that. Anyway, it just followed me.
CLIENT: Well, it was... it was then all right on two kinds of levels. It was an all right in that sure it was... I had expected you to go on and make another arrangement, and there was... you were not... I didn't feel any, "Oh, what a terrible person." or "She's neglecting me.", or anything else. So in that sense it was perfectly all right. The other sense in that it wasn't all right is that by that time I had kind of gotten myself up to deciding that I should see you and that I should talk to you.
THERAPIST: So after you really had something going and it would have been useful and... or you...
CLIENT: I didn't know what was going, but I kind of knew that I needed to talk it out. Right, it's... it's been a very strange weekend and it was... it was kind of a strange last week, and somehow whatever happened Wednesday was good. I can't even... I haven't the foggiest idea what it was. [5:02]
THERAPIST: In here you mean?
CLIENT: Yeah. 
THERAPIST: Oh, what did I do?
CLIENT: And in a sense maybe I didn't want to come in Monday because that was going to be bad again. In a sense I didn't want to come in Monday because of whatever was going on with me right then, and... and as it turned out, "Like I really should talk to someone.", not necessarily you just somebody. I was... I ended up being real... well, really screwed up last week, and it was... for once it's not my boyfriend's fault. Like he's been really good and... or at least as good as he could be in the circumstances. 
It had... it... somehow Tuesday had made it... I guess it was like Wednesday night... oh, I know, Wednesday night I found out that I didn't pass prelims and I'd asked... I was in very... I was in really good shape when I heard that. Like I kind of had expected it, and I sort of got the letter. I had not gone to work Wednesday. I can't remember why. I know because I was really tired and I really wanted to be... oh, I had gone to the ballet Tuesday night and I was really exhausted Wednesday night. I... I had sort of planned to come in late, or else not to go. I can't remember... I guess I just didn't go. And so I knew that letter was coming Wednesday, and I pretty much knew that I wasn't going to pass and it wasn't a great surprise. It wasn't that I didn't... like I really thought that I did as best as I could on prelims, and that I could take them over a million times and it won't do any good, and as it turned out one of the two that I failed was the one that I really did the most on, and like I have done fantastic on what I'm reading on and I could probably talk circles around both of the readers on the subject. On the other hand, I know I'm a bad writer and I probably didn't express it clearly, and they probably had recent appointments. 
But... so I was sort of dazed when I got it. Partially because I had just woken up and was sort of dazed anyway, and I can't remember why else I probably really kind of thought of it but it's like I had to get out. I couldn't talk to my roommates. They're so rude. They were both there at the time that I opened the letter, but I just didn't say anything to them and I just left because I had to take my dog for a walk anyway. And instead of... like I really felt like going out to the park or something like that, except I knew that I'd just be depressed if I did. So I went right... I... the note said there'd be no comments [8:10] 
and Mr. Blackwell would meet with me as soon as possible. Fine. Or make an appointment, and so I did. 
I just... well, I just walked over to the Human Development building and I said, "I'm going to be working most every day this week.", and "Do you have any time now?", and I also knew that if I didn't see her then it was just going to really hang over me, and it was... I was really lucky that I got to see her for like two hours or something like that. Anyway I just barely got to my (535s) (ph) and it would have been 3:00 when I got the letters because [I spent a lot of time in there] (ph). Spent a long time talking, and I had... I went home and I called my boyfriend before my class and I asked him if he could come over for dinner after the class to fin... help me finish eating this chili that we'd had the night before and had a whole bunch of people over for and had tons of it left. That was all I said to him, and I didn't know why but I kind of knew that I would like him to have an (inaudible at 9:18). 
And so anyway we... he came over and it was kind of late, and my class didn't get over until 8:30 and he came over at 9:00 and I already had a friend for dinner that was still there, so we all ended up talking until about 11:30, which was good because I ended up having to be in a good mood and therefore being in a good mood. And I don't know somehow... like it wasn't until we got to bed that I finally... my boyfriend finally asked me, "Well, what's wrong?", and I told him, and he was really good. Like he really listened the whole time and he didn't go to sleep, and the problem was we talked like really late, and that's... that's what... what happened is I didn't go to sleep at all... all Thursday night, and I felt good about it somehow because the talking had been a really good thing. And it was in a sense what I asked... I was really tired so that I wasn't talking very clearly, but in a sense what I asked him was sometime... I... because I knew I had to get up. Oh, I know, I had remembered we was supposed to have an appointment with our supervisor at our family therapy the next morning. So I knew I had to be awake for it and I had to get to work on time and I said, "Sometime, maybe this weekend or something when we haven't both been up really late and all... I don't have to go to work tomorrow and you don't have to go to work tomorrow. Let's just talk.", because we never really have talked very much. It's like he'd come over for dinner Wednesday and we had other people over for dinner and I heard the company say, "I love it when you help me fix dinner and fed the dog and that kind of thing.", and the same had happened Thursday night. We'd all been talking, the four of us together, but I'd never really... I hadn't really talked to him, and then it's... we were really tired by the time we get to bed and we don't feel like talking and he doesn't, and I've discovered not... that I shouldn't push him. 
And anyway somehow I had a really good feeling it was in a sense a carryover from Wednesday talking to you, and from a generally positive feeling towards things, and like also because I realized that this prelim thing hadn't really gotten me down that much and that it... and also because I was grateful that my boyfriend had been able to talk to me and to support me and to criticize me, but not too much. 
THERAPIST: Sounds like that's something he would [inaudible at 12:13].
CLIENT: And it was like I had all these kinds of feelings about what I felt about him and... and stuff that I just... somehow being able to talk in here had made me at that moment feel like I really for once could talk to him, could just sit down and talk to him, and I think had I come in here Monday, or had I come in here sometime between when I felt like that and before things got really bad again, that I could have, in fact, carried out that thing and been able to talk to him on Sunday. 
Like he came over Sunday afternoon to borrow my typewriter to work on his paper because he didn't have one, and he stayed and we went out Sunday night, and I came back and I couldn't talk to him. And part of it had been a kind of really mind bodly... bodily experiences of Saturday night I... going out for dinner I... well, it had been a strange thing with... with time and with being sleepy, because okay I didn't go to sleep Wednesday night at all, and I'd gone to work and I'd worked all day Thursday, and I came back about 6:00 and I was supposed to go out at 9:30 or 10:30 that night, and so I went to sleep from like 6:00 to 9:00. And I went out to dinner with this friend that was just sort of half a friend that I mentioned that I had... had started in the trial on the previous Tuesday, and this was like the night of the cast party and stuff, except we ended up not going to the cast party because a lot of his friends weren't going. We just went out to dinner with his sister [to kind of simplify] (ph) in Florida and then I go over to his apartment to talk for a while and he had just... it was like a monologue on his part. It was like he'd been so high from this play and he just hadn't had anyone; had had no social life and had no one to talk to in so long that he was really needing somebody to talk to. And I really like him and I can really understand him, so I was really up for listening to him, and he just started telling me like he had just been completely psychotic last year and this was kind of his first... like this really meant so much more to him, because this was his first kind of comeback from when he'd been living in Boston and when he'd been really, really out of it and just really bizarre and ended up in a mental hospital for three weeks or something like that, and then calling... taking an overdose of Demerol or something like that and ended up back in the hospital. And just, just his own feelings and somehow it was... it was a... it was a good experience to listen to, because he had a good perspective on it now and he'd come back; he'd come through this, and he'd come through it really well, and he also had... like he said he had a really good perspective on people and he could play a lot of these roles really well because he'd been through a lot of them. Somehow the subject had come up and we were both just sitting at dinner with his mother very innocuously, and just... he just said some... I said something about, "Did you really identify with J.K. in the play?", and he said at times that he would bring me and think parts of his life that he would relive as he was portraying certain aspects of the role. And we both sort of got discussing how important it was to really be able to empathize with people from your own experience, and I sort of said that I... oh, I know, I... that's what happened. 
Friday I had seen a really good patient that I had been working on for a long time, and I hadn't planned to see him but he was being discharged, and I just had the suspicion that there was something going on with him that... that other people... psychologists (anyway) (ph) that had looked over his testing results hadn't come up with, and so I sat down with him and I said, "Look you tell me. I suspicion that cer..." I didn't say right out. I said, "Tell me about how you get along with your friends at work and tell me about you're feeling, you're holding anger inside of you and stuff like that.", and he came up and he said well he hadn't told anybody this before but, yeah, that he had felt such and such a way and he had in a sense bottled up all of his anger, and the voices that he'd been hearing had some pretty good basis in... in what had been going on with his life that so far no... nobody had any record of, because he had never reported this to anybody. And it was nothing that drastic that he would report, unless somebody came out and asked him and I'd only asked him because of suspicions that I'd gotten from the test, but I felt really good about it because I think... no... no, I think he should have been discharged, but I think also I'm going to see him on an outpatient basis, which otherwise would not have happened at all. And not that I really felt that able to empathize with... with his paranoia, but I did feel able to empathize with him just kind of totally and able to talk to him, and he just kept saying over and over again, "Nobody's ever talked to me like this before. Nobody here's talked to me except you.", and I felt really good about that. I just felt like I was doing my job and...
THERAPIST: I would have felt like it felt really good to be there for someone...
CLIENT: It was.
THERAPIST: ...for him as well as for this friend.
CLIENT: And... yeah, in both cases. And anyway at this dinner, so I had just sort of said, yeah, I just... I felt that in order to be a decent psychologist you've really got to be able to empathize with the people that you're talking to, and not just put them in a category and put a label on them and give them a drug or something like that. [18:24] And I said that in some ways I think maybe every psychologist ought to be able to be an actor and to be able to take everybody else's role. There are an awful lot of different kinds of roles and stuff like that, and it was... it was kind of like I was talking about mental patient in the abstract, and I realized that afterwards that I may have hit on all sorts of things because... since he had been a mental patient, which I didn't know about when we was talking at dinner. But it didn't... whatever it was it... it hadn't come through badly, because his mother didn't... and his mother seemed pleased with me, well, at least not angry at me, and he had end... he ended up just going, talking for two hours in mon... straight monologue about this experience that had happened to him. And I don't' know what that did to me. It did all kinds of things to me in the sense... in a sense it was really an optimistic good kind of thing in that he'd come... come back out of it. In another sense, it was not in that... like this had happened to him last Christmas, and in a sense I've been really out of it for two years now and I haven't really come back, and I haven't really done anything to get myself back, and so in a sense there's a negative comparison there. In a lot of ways... I hadn't been psychotic. I'd taken an overdose of drugs and tried to kill myself and stuff like that, but I'd never been hallucinating and paranoid and that... everything like that. Depressed yes and confused maybe, but at the same time I just... typically I should be functioning better than he and I'm not and...
THERAPIST: That really... not really screwy what it sounds like.
CLIENT: Somehow it did. That's... that's... I don't know what that did to me actually. I know I felt kind of strange about it for the next day, and I think that part of that made me... made it hard for me to talk to my boyfriend the next day. Part of what... because I tried to tell my boyfriend about it in a very abstract way and I really couldn't, and I also didn't feel like I had a right to tell him very much because he didn't know the guy, but he knew... he knew who the guy was. He knew through a friends of friends kind of, and so that I really couldn't say very much.
And also we'd gone to this movie by accident actually, because we'd had had an (almaroo) (ph) and we'd gone to see "Sterile Cuckoo", which in a lot of ways is a very superficial kind of kids in college movie, but I tend to let any kind of movies almost... I tend to take what's good in them and sort of disregard what's superficial and what's... what's trash, and I sort of take off from one little theme that they have and use [21:32] 
my imagination for the rest of it even if it's not portrayed. And I sort of started thinking from there about a lot of like really happy times that I'd had at college and really kind of the times that... that I'd had that were... when I forgot everything that was sad, it was like when all that mattered was just who the guy that I was with at the moment, which kind of only happened with one guy that I was with in college, and it would... it was really like we... I don't know if you've seen the movie or not but it's... it's overly romantic and... and simply in a lot of ways, and wandering through fields and then stuff like that, and overly beautiful and idyllic and yet... I've had experiences that were like that, that were not overdone, that were just fantastic, and I... I was sorry that they lef... they'd gone, and I was sorry that I couldn't enjoy them with anyone else, and that somehow the childlike part of me that's still there and the innocent part that just wants to just be happy, or be able to be happy just for a few minutes even and not let everything else weigh me down. I hadn't been able to do that in a long time, not since like four years ago since I was a junior in college and I could do that, and now almost any time I'm happy it all of a sudden it ends like really fast and I know it's going to, and I sort of... I tried to explain this feeling to my boyfriend, but I couldn't. I was tired and he was tired and I couldn't get it across to him, and Sunday morning somehow he had to type his paper or something. I can't remember what it was, but it was like this was the last chance that I was going to have to talk him, and like he said, "Okay, what do you want for breakfast?", or something like that, and that just sort of broke it, like that was... we'd fooled around enough and it was... we'd talked enough and we weren't getting anywhere. It was kind of time to stop and I... I don't know why I felt so really overcome with sadness at that time, but I really did. 
I had the night before too and... oh, I... I know, it was like... it was... it was almost in a dream state and I'd... I'd awakened... I'd awakened before he did as a matter of fact, which is very unusual because usually he's dragging me out of bed because I hate waking up in the morning, but it was really white. It... it had snowed the night before and it was white and it was gloomy outside, and I sort of looked outside and I... it was like feeling able to write poetry, except I really wasn't, but just being able to feel it was the first step, and I sort of was comparing the white and the black trees and the black bars on [24:57] my window. I've got a really nice view from my window even though it has bars on it, just because we have a backyard and I would go... my windows look out over the porch. But I was comparing the really sterile black and white to the... I have these really pretty... my room is blue and I have these really pretty... they're like Mexican I guess print curtains, which my bed is right next to the window and the curtains come all the way down. They're long drapes. They're really bedspreads, and they're sort of... they've got orange and gold and all sorts of prints in them, and it makes the room look so warm if there's any light at all coming through them, and it... it makes it a very, very faint light, and my bedspread is blue and the sleeping bag that I also use is... is green which... because I'm always freezing. And it was like the room was blue and green and warm, and I was warm because I was next to my boyfriend and because I felt good about it, and I was sort of comparing the... the blue and green warmth. I was just using colors just literally in a sense, or giving them literal symbolism, and comparing it to the white and black bareness, sterility, colorless on the outside and I... I woke up and I just started writing about this, just the feelings that I had and I felt really good, and then he woke up and then somehow it just didn't work. And then he got up to leave, and I just felt just completely frozen then, and I looked around and like... it was like the covers were down and I was looking in the opposite direction. I think the curtains were still on but I wasn't... I was looking at the other way, and all I could see was the white pillowcases and the white sheets, and it was like the white coldness had come inside and that was all I could feel, and it just shattered everything. And it was just... the symbolism was [27:12] so perfect, because all... all I did was just open my eyes and it was white all around and it was just like the white that I had been comparing, it was outside and completely removed. And he liked to fix breakfast, which I didn't want, but I couldn't tell him I didn't want it because then he gets worried about me, and while he was doing that I just... I just took a razor blade and cut my arm. It just... almost... I don't know why always to bring some kind of life or death or... or something into the room, because I couldn't stand it.
THERAPIST: Something vital it sounds like.
CLIENT: And why it had turned out was... I hadn't planned it that way but just... just the... the particular mark that it made looked like a tree and it had... it had branches, and there was all kind of... kinds of symbolism in that too. It was really sad that this was the only kind of live tree that I could get to grow in this room was... was to do a really stupid thing like that. Oh, I know, he'd gone out to take the dog for a walk, and he came back in and he came back in the back door and couldn't get in, so he looked... he... he knocked on my window and he as a result came in. I had to let him in and he came in while it was still bleeding, so that he saw what I had done, and he really chastised me for it.
THERAPIST: Like how?
CLIENT: Mostly by looks. I know because at the time he came in I was... he came in just inside and then I left. He hadn't come into the room, and I was still writing. I was just writing what I felt, and then he came into the room and he... and as much as said, "Did you just cut yourself so you could write about it?", or something like that, "Did you give yourself something to write about?" And I hadn't. I hadn't at all. I'd been writing long before I cut myself and... and the feeling had been there first, but I couldn't say that to him. I just didn't say anything at all. And somehow I ate breakfast [29:30] but I don't remember that very well, and I didn't say anything, except that somehow I had to punish myself for... for doing that and for really being so clumsy about... for one... I don't whether I was madder at myself for cutting myself or for letting him see me and... or because I had the... the feelings, or because I couldn't control them, or just what, because I had such a... in a way... in a way that's not a bad way of dealing with them I guess. It's better than... than a lot of things I could do and it...
THERAPIST: You mean to cut yourself?
CLIENT: You know it's not a tremendous way and I wouldn't recommend it to people, but it's harmless. It's very superficial and it gets rid of a lot of the tensions, and like I do it up front up on my arms so that... I wear long-sleeved sweaters and nobody sees it, and so that in a sense nobody is offended by it and I'm not hurt by it as far as work or something like that, and it's a lot better than... than moping around all day, or not being able to talk to people. But anyway I just... I kind of did something which I had thought about doing all that week at times that I thought about killing myself and decided that I didn't want to, or else decided that I couldn't slit my throat, which is kind of the only way that I could think of doing it, because it was too messy and that it wouldn't be really fair to my roommates, and I have a strange way of reasoning, but I really... I really believe that. I don't think... I mean if I'm going to die, I think I should at least (chuckle) be an easy person to bury kind of., and I didn't have anything like Secanol or anything else, which is what I'd taken before. I only had this Darvon and I didn't know how much, whether that was... I didn't know anything about it really. I didn't know how lethal it was, or why it was lethal, or... or anything, and I had... and I also knew that I could take like a hundred aspirins, something like that, which I also had, and I thought about that. So like after breakfast I just... I just told my boyfriend in effect that I wanted to go to sleep. I don't know what I told him. I asked him to go read the paper in the other [32:04] room, and I just started taking Darvon like two at a time and I ended up taking about 41, and mostly I just... just... I just wanted to go to sleep. I just wanted to black out him and all the rest of the world at that point and... except that I... I didn't get sleepy and I did... after I took them, I did all sorts of straightening up and fed the bird and fed... fed the dog and did every... all the chores that I was going to have to do for that day in case I did get sleepy. I didn't know if it was going to affect me at all or... or what was going to happen, and I don't know. Sometime then I just sort of laid down and started writing again, and I... in the meantime I decided that I didn't really want to die, that I just really had wanted to go to sleep, that I really hadn't been trying to kill myself. So I decided maybe I ought to find out if that was a lethal dose or not, so I started calling people like Reed Crisis Center and places like that that I knew of and had had experience with and just asked to talk to a doctor, and mostly asked what could be done because I didn't want to go to a hospital, and all of them just said that it... it could be lethal and that I should come in. Oh, I just... I called as if I was the girl's roommate and that the girl didn't want to go in and was there anything that I could do for her at home. They said, "No" that "You've got to get her in.", so I finally got to feeling really bad and...
THERAPIST: You mean sick from the pills, or psychologically?
CLIENT: No, sick from the pills and like really having trouble breathing and that kind of stuff. And like my boyfriend at that... had come after I'd taken them and asked if I wanted to go for a walk, and I wanted to go so bad because it was really pretty then, and he very seldom asks if I want to go for a walk. Usually I have to drag him, and I felt really bad that I couldn't go and I just said, "No, you and the dog will have to go.", and I guess he went, and he came back after that and he was like, "What's wrong?", and I finally just... I finally called for an ambulance and I went over there. [34:27] I was really, really sick all Sunday night and I was really sick all yesterday and pretty much today, just because I've got a really messed up stomach, and whereas I don't think the pills are still there or anything like that. It's just that my stomach gets upset really easily and sort of still fouling up my system so that I... Anyway I really blew it well, and I sort of haven't done much thinking in the last two days because it's been... I've been mostly high.
THERAPIST: You know let me... I want to say something I'm not sure you'll like. This, is like off the top of my head, but I don't like to make a big thing out of this suicide business. You're like... act like oh it's a... a big symptom that I'm interested in, but I like I realize that... that I'm having a very strong reaction to your telling me this because like what... you've been here a half an hour and Jesus you tell me this stuff and I'm thinking, "I didn't know anything about it.", and like it just brings home to me how cut off you were and are and must have felt. I... I don't know what I'm trying to tell you. Maybe I'm saying, "Geez I wish... like I wish you had called me." Maybe I'm saying that. I don't know, but I think I'm... I'm trying to tell you like I really feel very affected hearing you say that, like it concerns me a lot and it concerns me that you were by yourself, and that like there was somebody in the next room that you couldn't say anything to. Now I don't... I'm not really sure what came across from me there because like I didn't (chuckles) have time to work it out, but really it makes me feel awful for you, and I'm really sad that somehow, some way, there's nothing you feel you can do at that time. [36:42]
CLIENT: That's pretty much it. I really didn't know what to do, and I didn't want to tell my boyfriend. Like even after I'd taken the pills, I really didn't want to tell him, because I had just... I put him through hell last year to the point of... like after I'd tried to kill myself, I still kept feeling like it and... and I'd... I don't know if I told you or not, but I ended up just giving him my sleeping pills and telling him to just dole them out to me because... because I really knew that... that I was going to take them if... if I didn't give them to him, and I don't want to do that to him again. I've gotten him scared enough of me now, and like I... I tried to tell him last night, when I was finally beginning to feel well enough to even talk, that...
THERAPIST: Did he go... excuse me, did he go with you to Billings? Did he stay with you all that day?
CLIENT: Yeah. He took me there and he stayed.
THERAPIST: How was... how was that between you, or were you really too sick to notice?
CLIENT: Well, he was not like in the room with me, but he brought me over at like 5:00 and we left about 12:00, so he wasn't really with me all the time, and so he stayed there and I was really glad.
THERAPIST: You were glad. Did he know you were glad?
CLIENT: I told him I was glad.
THERAPIST: Okay. And how did... now maybe you were about to tell me what I'm going to ask, but like do you have any sense in... and how did he feel? Like did you end up feeling rotten because you'd involved him at all or...? [38:28]
CLIENT: Not as rotten as I could have, partially because I really hadn't tried to kill myself and he knew it, and I had... he hadn't had to pick me up and drag me to the hospital. I had said I ca... I had done all the calling and I said, "Can you drive me over there?" and "Can you come in with me?", and it was like... it was asking for help, but it was not requiring it.
THERAPIST: Yeah, it sounds like sort of asking with some... it's the wrong word to use, but I can't think of another one at this point. It's like... like asking with some dignity, or with some... some self-respect or containment or something.
CLIENT: Something like that. It was like he could say no and it... it would be okay. It gave him an option. It was not I'm going to die and you've got to rescue me or something like that, and he would come back and he'd fix me tea and stuff like that but... and take the dog out, which I really appreciated, but I felt less that... that I had really co-opted him kind of, and just being able to tell him. Because I had taken action myself I think, and because I told him that... or I told him last night that this was something that I could only tell him about after I'd done it, but that this was something that I'd really felt like doing for a long time and in a sense I had to try it. That... and I also discovered that maybe I still would feel like killing myself sometime in the future, but that I decided it was too much trouble. [40:12]
THERAPIST: Now wait. What the thing that you needed to try? To tell him about it or to take the pills?
CLIENT: To take the pills. 
THERAPIST: Oh, okay.
CLIENT: And I had really felt like it all week, and I hadn't... and I couldn't tell him about it beforehand because I knew he'd just worry, but I could tell him about it afterwards because I knew there was no more danger. And so like I told him about it last night, a little bit anyway, just to kind of... and I felt okay about it, and I felt okay kind of this morning.
THERAPIST: Okay.
CLIENT: But I didn't really... like I had done a dumb thing, but that I hadn't... I hadn't in a sense put a burden on him that he couldn't take for once.
THERAPIST: Well, it sounds like... it's like you're saying, "I didn't"... "I did need him and I did express that, but I didn't... I don't see myself as manipulating him, or as like enmeshing him".
CLIENT: Yeah, but like I was so careful not to do that the whole time and...
THERAPIST: It sounds like it was a lousy experience, but at least there's something... I'm not sure. I wouldn't say it feels good, because it doesn't sound like any of it felt very good but...
CLIENT: (chuckles) Not particularly.
THERAPIST: ...but like there's a... I don't know, a learning or something.
CLIENT: Yeah, there kind of is. 
THERAPIST: And now where does all this leave you?
CLIENT: I don't know.
THERAPIST: I've... I've heard about where you were up to this morning. Where are you now? [42:01]
CLIENT: I really don't know. I ended up... I couldn't sleep last night, because my stomach was such a mess and I was scared to take anything because I... what I was trying to do was get rid of pills and not take them. You don't happen to know if Librium has aspirin in it do you?
THERAPIST: No, I don't. I really don't.
CLIENT: Okay. (chuckles) Because that's... that's the only thing that I can take to calm down my stomach and I ended up taking one or two this morning, which enabled me to go back to sleep and I don't think the curtain was down.
THERAPIST: Would... would aspirin hurt your stomach? Is that why you're asking?
CLIENT: Yeah, well aspirin is what... it turns out that's what Darvon's got in it that's lethal and so... and aspirin is also... it can really wreck your stomach. It really wrecks mine.
THERAPIST: I... I've... I know people that that happens with. I don't know...
CLIENT: And just a regular... regular dosages of it wreck my stomach. I'm... gee, I have no idea how much is in Darvon, but I imagine probably more is in Darvon that is in two aspirin tablets because of... like you're not allowed to take them but once every four hours and you're only allowed to take one and it's the strongest kind and...
THERAPIST: Well, it sounds like you just feel depleted then... or at least part of what I'm hearing is, "Oh".
CLIENT: Part of it's... a lot of it's physical depletion. Last night it was good in that I was just beginning to feel better physically, like I didn't even feel like sitting up and I didn't feel like talking, and I sort of got enough energy to go and walk the dog and to... to walk where... it's like I either had to keep moving, like walking, or else I had to be lying down, and it was just physically really bad. But the fact was that like every hour last night I got feeling better just physically and mentally also, because once I woke up, I started doing things. I started doing everything that I could think of. Like I know from having been in the hospital that... that singing... playing the guitar and singing really helps my stomach. It helps my whole system just... not just psychologically because it...
THERAPIST: Has an organic effect.
CLIENT: And I found that out because some nurses had asked me to sing for them and... and... once when I was just flat on my back and I said, "I can't sing. I don't feel like singing.", and they said, "Please just one song.", and so they held up the music and I sort of played the guitar on my back and I just could... but I felt better, and ever since then I've realized it really works. So I sang for about an hour-and-a-half last night, and walked around the block, and did everything I could think of, and just kind of progressively feeling better, even though I still felt really lousy. It gave me the feeling that, in fact, I did want to feel better, that I wanted to be healthy again, and so that was kind of a positive thing, and then it was like realizing what it is to feel really just out of it, physically, mentally, and everything. I just... I wanted so much to be healthy again and to be with the music, and it's like since last night I've really felt like one... once I get healthy, I'm going to music and I'm going to do something with it. Stop sleeping all day and stop being depressed all day or whatever. [45:20]
THERAPIST: There was something that sounds like that it... that just this... this... this energy that you were using to get yourself out of it or something felt good, because it felt like a... like a push away from... from this... I don't know what to call it, isolation and... and... well, I think I...
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: You know what I'm talking about. I don't what... quite what to...
CLIENT: Yeah, something like that I guess.
THERAPIST: And like now you... you... you don't exactly have all the energy right now, but there's something that... you... you feel hope almost in what you're saying.
CLIENT: It did last night. I'm not really sure where I stand today. I'm not... it's been a very strange day. Like I really could sleep all morning, but I kind of stayed in bed because my boyfriend was there and I sort of wanted to be with him. And then I... I couldn't go to sleep because my stomach was so upset, and so then I finally took the Librium, and like I hadn't gotten up to walk the dog because he kept saying well he was going to get up in five minutes and I thought, "Well, I'm..."; whereas whe... on mornings that I plan to go back to sleep until noon, I get up and walk the dog at 7:00 or 8:00 in the morning and then go back to sleep. So what happened was then I finally managed to go to sleep and he stayed asleep until noon, and then it was like he had to get up and run and I'd better get up and to take the dog out for a walk because this poor dog... and I just... the way he said it was like really accusing, "Get out of bed you lazy slob. Don't you know that poor dog's been waiting for hours?", and I just... somehow that just hit me and I was so mad, because it was like I'd been wide awake for hours and I could have walked her and everything. But anyway that's... it's like I kind of left him on a very bad note but... and then I ended up going back to sleep most of the afternoon, which was kind of sad, because when I had gotten up at 7:00 or 8:00 this morning, I'd felt really good and I'd really been... I really wanted to get a lot done. And actually what I... what had happened was I was going to go to work today because I knew the family therapy case, and then my co-therapist called me and said that the family couldn't come in this morning, so I decided not to go in because I really was kind of out of it, but I would have gone if I'd had to. So I decided, "Well, I'll stay here and I'll get some work done and I'll feel really good to go on Wednesday.", and now I'm starting to feel really bad again, so I don't know.
THERAPIST: What do you mean really bad?
CLIENT: Just kind of physically. I don't know, but I think that's probably just from not eating and other stuff like that. 
Just one other thing that... that kind of... and I ended up dreaming about it, and I think I ended up putting another... like really sad kind of thing in the whole thing was a friend of my mother's had called me last night and said that my mother was back in the hospital and that she had fall... they didn't know what had happened to her, but the police or somebody had found her either by her car or in a car and she was all bleeding, and they didn't know whether she'd... her car had not been wrecked or anything, so that it couldn't have been only an accident. And they didn't know whether she'd fallen, or been beaten up, or what, and she was probably intoxicated and just gotten up to go out, and we didn't know what had happened. She was having convulsions probably from withdrawal from alcohol, but we didn't know, and the thing that impressed me about that was like... here's this lady and she's completely alone and admittedly nobody can stay with her because nobody can tolerate her when she's drinking, and she literally has driven all of her friends away, and she won't go for help, and she won't stop drinking, and she doesn't have any money, and she doesn't have a job, and yet in a sense she's so far down that she doesn't know how to get help. And I didn't... it's like... I guess I felt like maybe my boyfriend should have deserted me when I took those pills, because that was a really dumb thing to do, and yet I am so grateful that he didn't and that he stayed with me when I felt really physically out of it, and I guess I'm kind of asking, "Have I deserted my mother when she's really, really down and when she really needs somebody?", now that I realize what it's like to maybe not deserve to have somebody there, but to really need somebody there anyway. [50:19]
And God the dream that I had was just horrible. It was... it came from singing... like "Bottle of Wine" was the song that along with all the other songs that I sang last night. It wasn't the last song I sang or anything else but I... when I woke up this morning, it was still in my mind so I realized that it must have been in my mind when I was dreaming, and what I dreamt was... was from the last verse, "I ride the rods, trusting in God, and clutching my bottle of wine." or "I ride the rails.", or whatever it is. And this... there was this guy in the dream that... that kept putting himself down in front of a train. It was like a movie, and the train would go over him and he'd get up, and he'd stagger over and lie down on another track and have another train go over him, and every time he'd get up there'd be less and less of him there, except I kept thinking, "This, is a movie. That can't be an actor that's doing this. I mean, they must be just changing the makeup on him, or something like that, because he's still a whole person.", and yet he was literally almost crumpled up, and I don't think he was actually decapitated but just about. And like this, is really what I could... I don't think... I think then I was... I can't... I don't know what the symbolism was exactly, but I can pretty much, putting the song together with the... with the dream, think that I was thinking of my mother, and like every time that she goes down, she comes up less and less of herself and...
THERAPIST: So there's more battered and beaten...
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: ...and then misshapen.
CLIENT: And she is and she's gone farther and farther down, and like I'm just standing by watching, and I don't know what to do about it, and it's like when her friend called last night I was still really sick and I thought, "Oh God, you know this, is the last thing I need.", and I didn't exactly say, "Yeah, I just got out of the hospital yesterday.", and she asked me how I was and I just said, "Well, I had a cold.", or something like that. I didn't... [52:21]
THERAPIST: Are you saying it's... or I guess maybe I'm just reading in it li... like a conflict because you... I hear you really having some... some feelings and some first-hand sort of empathy-type feelings about what it's like to be... well, almost to have driven somebody away and needing...
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: ... somebody when you don't deserve it as you put it. But... but like I also hear a, "God, that would take a lot out of you.", like have you got a lot... have you... like what could you do?
CLIENT: I don't know. That's just it. I know in a lot of ways that... that I'm like I am because of she... because of her. I know that in a lot of ways she's driven me down, and I made the first decision to just leave her when I realized that, if I didn't, then I was going to be the first to go kind of, and I kind of wonder if that's not a decision made in a state of real weakness when I'm clutching for life myself, and that once I get to a certain state of strength that I should go back and pull her up. I agree that I shouldn't go and pull her up if it's going to pull me down. The thing is I'm not sure I can tell when that little fine line is... is going to be.
THERAPIST: Like your not... you're saying, "Look, I'm not sure when I'm going to ha... when I really am going... when I'm going to have the resources, or when I really feel solid about this".
CLIENT: Yeah. Like she just... she really shakes me up something fierce, and I'm just thinking maybe when I get through this hospital clerkship, I should just go and spend a month at home and get a lawyer or something like that and get her committed, or stay at home with her and... and keep the booze away from her and... and get her back on her feet. The problem is that would be taking a month out of my life and I... which I've already done for like four times in the last six months, and each time she's gone back, and I wonder... I keep wondering when is it going to do any good, but at the same time she needs somebody. [54:30]
THERAPIST: Yeah. That's like it's... it's also saying something like, "Man, that month is a real risk for me at this point". 
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: Like it's not only that I don't seem to be able to be... to help... to be able to be helpful, it's like... like, "What's that going to do to me from... in terms of where I am now?"
CLIENT: Yeah. So I don't know.
THERAPIST: Well, it seems like being impaled in a way.
CLIENT: (chuckles)
THERAPIST: I have no... why... where I got that image from, but like really... I don't know. 
CLIENT: I don't know. Kind of also I had the feeling like this... this last night when... when my mother's friend called. Like I was in really bad shape and here I was fooling around, getting myself really in bad shape, taking pills that I shouldn't have been taking, and thereby being completely unresponsive to any of my mother's needs, to anybody else's needs, because I'd managed to get myself so messed up, which in a sense is what my mother's done, but I'd just as soon not interfere.
THERAPIST: Like you... like suddenly you saw yourself walling yourself off from any... everybody and it looked awfully familiar.
CLIENT: It was like... it was almost like I was telling my mother's friend, but of course I didn't, "Don't call me about her. I've got my own problems".
THERAPIST: Um hm. It sounds like you'd really like to be able (chuckles) to say that to somebody. Maybe just say it once.
CLIENT: And in a sense like... like she said to me, "Oh, I hope you're not in the middle of a... studying for a big exam now.", like... and I don't know that she meant it sarcastically, but it came across almost that way like...
THERAPIST: Like what a petty concern compared with your mother.
CLIENT: Like I hate to tell you about this about your mother, but she's practically dying up here and there's nobody here and maybe somebody ought to do something about it.
THERAPIST: Um hm. Namely you. (chuckles)
CLIENT: Um hm. It better not be anybody else, and anyway. 
THERAPIST: So you had a lot of... it sounds like what I'm hearing a couple of reactions like one is sort of frightened, one is like an insight, and I don't know if any was like the feeling but anyway. And another one, it sounds like anger or some wish to just push it away, like let somebody else do it. Not me now. [57:02]
CLIENT: Well, that's not quite true, because I feel like I've been pushing it away now for a long time. Like I haven't done a damn thing about my mother since July and she's been through hell since then, and I just completely turned off.
THERAPIST: You have some feeling like you have... oh, let's see how to put it. Like you really... because there's some resemblances, or you... you feel like there's some resemblances between what she does and how you are sometime, that it's absolutely necessary that you keep yourself separate from her?
CLIENT: To a degree yeah. Becau... mostly because I haven't sorted out what's ou... keeping myself separate is in a way like she's fantastically... like I'm upset in five minutes after being with her. She's just overwhelmingly...
THERAPIST: In all of these.
CLIENT: ...and she's worse than the typical Jewish mother. She really is. She's like, "I am helpless. I am... You don't talk to me. You..." It's... it's every kind of accusation except that she never says it that way, so you can't yell at her for saying it that way. It's always done in a nice, rational tone of, "Why... why can other mothers and daughters talk, and why can't we talk?", and I say, "Because, mother, you never listen." "Of course, I listen.", and it just...it's every kind of... of [Bates and his double bond] (ph) that you could possibly imagine. It really is and...
THERAPIST: Man, those things can cripple.
CLIENT: I've experienced them really crippling, and I have experienced being literally nervous wrecks for a long time growing up, and every time I'd go home for Christmas or something... I did after I went away to college I would, and it... it's gotten worse, and the only time that I've been able to handle her has been in the last year since I've been able to not treat her like a human being, but treat her like a patient. But if I once let myself soften to her, I am so vulnerable.
THERAPIST: I know. It'd almost be a bad thing tucked away or being lost.
CLIENT: Because I don't know who I am, but I know that I'm a very negative person from her... all of... everything that... every bit of feedback she gives me, and I can't take that from her any more because I just... I can't take the guilt that she's given me. I've had... I'm having a hard time dealing with it separately, but I'm when I'm with her, she's feeding it to me with every other sentence. Not even a sentence, but every time she staggers or it's just... like you just feel like crying because she's such... she's so pitiful, and she's also so good-hearted and... and I can... I empathize with her too much, and I know what she feels like to much, and I know how she's not able to cope, and it hurts. [1:00:30]
THERAPIST: And it's like there's too much overlap and that kind of renders you... well, like it ends up... it not only ends up maybe damaging you, but making it really hard for you to... I don't know. It's... it's like saying, "Look you need a certain distance to be able to help somebody else and I don't have that with my mother". 
CLIENT: Yeah. 
THERAPIST: I don't have that. I'm confused. I feel bruised. I feel cut down by her. All I can do is react. I'm not able to sort of act.
CLIENT: I don't know. The only... in a sense the only kind of consolation I have for that is the fact that her brother, my uncle who I empathized with and was really close to and who also was... was the only member of the family that... that had an equal kind of... was a really sensitive person, finally said once Christmas that he couldn't talk to her anymore, because he couldn't take it. And it was both his sanity and his health that he was worried about and...
THERAPIST: It really helped to hear that in some way?
CLIENT: Yeah, because he was recognizing that it would destroy him, and he's in a lot of ways farther removed from her than I am, and yet he still had a fantastic love for her as his favorite sister and someone that had helped bring up and everything, and since he had a mother image of her. She was ten years older than he was and she had helped raise him, because their mother had been an alcoholic, and so in a since he did share a lot of the same feeling towards her that I did or do, and I guess he was the only person that... that gave any sanction to what I finally ended up having to do.
THERAPIST: Yeah, that was the word that came to me like that. It may sort of feel weak or like meaningless to someone else, but like it really helps to have that...
CLIENT: Yeah. 
THERAPIST: ...at that point because it sounds like in one way you feel the same way. You've got to have that separation to retain any...
CLIENT: Um hm. 
THERAPIST: ...sense of yourself.
CLIENT: Also the fact that when one of my girlfriends tried to help me take her to the hospital one time, and my girlfriend is very, very strong and very capable and at the same very sensitive but she was a wreck after it, and this was like one time, and I went through it I think three times in one weekend, the same weekend. And so then she in a sense knew what I was going through and... and so she kind of also recognized what... why I was screaming at my mother and all like I was, or treating her like an absolute patient or incompetent.
THERAPIST: Now before I stop I want... I've... in the back of my mind, I've been going around trying to stick to what I was saying before, and I guess I... I don't want you to... I don't intend to convey and I... I don't... I hope you don't hear me saying, "Look I... I'm not trying to persuade you to call on me when you feel out, but I am... I was trying to say and am trying to say very clearly that really concerned me to hear that, and I... I... I feel very badly that you went through that alone by the way, and I want you to hear both things very clearly.
CLIENT: Okay. That's really good. (inaudible at 1:03:58).
END TRANSCRIPT
