Transcript of Audio File:
______________________________________________________________________________
BEGIN TRANSCRIPT:
CLIENT: So I e-mailed Dr. Vaughn after about what happened on Sunday and she wrote back to me that she thought I should think about, I mean among other things, that she thought I should think about doing an outpatient or inpatient stay in the clinic. I have a very strong internal urge against that but I could probably be convinced that it was the right thing to do. But I don't know. I'm just really angry at this situation. I said I've done everything I can and I can't fix it. And maybe I'm not doing everything I can but I'm doing everything I can think of. Sort of. It's just not what I want. And yes, so right now that's all I can really focus on is this is not what I want. But I can say that but it doesn't make anything any different.
THERAPIST: Right. That's what you got. [00:02:00]
CLIENT: Last night wasn't so bad. I took a gamble and made myself go out with some people after church. There's just a group of people in their 20s and 30s that just go out to dinner once a month. And I only knew two people and it was good; wasn't too long and I didn't mope when I got back. It wasn't - usually that'll kind of pick me up and sometimes it's a huge reaction and I didn't have that. It was good.
THERAPIST: Good. Let's see.
CLIENT: I don't know if Dr. Vaughn talked to you yet but I just signed the form that said that she could. She hadn't brought it up because she thought I needed to ease into that and I hadn't brought it up because I assumed that she would be talking to you.
THERAPIST: All right. Let me make myself a note to give her a call. If you could, I ask you if you could just send me an e-mail that says it's okay to talk to her.
CLIENT: Okay.
THERAPIST: Basically if you could do that it would be cool.
CLIENT: Yes, and she works for [inaudible] on Wednesdays and Fridays.
THERAPIST: Okay. Those are the only days that she's there?
CLIENT: That she's there. She has a private practice otherwise.
THERAPIST: Okay, all right. I will pick out a time to call her on I guess tomorrow. Let's see. Well, I guess a few things. I mean we can talk about inpatient or partial hospitalization. I mean inpatient doesn't make a whole lot of sense to me. [00:04:56]
CLIENT: Yes. I mean I think the main worry for her is that I need to be taking the Xanax for sleeping but I don't trust myself not to abuse it any more in that - on Saturday I took the normal dose, which is two which is higher than - it's a little bit high and I woke up in the middle of the night and I couldn't get back to sleep and I was like f*** this and I took two more.
THERAPIST: And how long you're supposed to wait before taking two more?
CLIENT: I have no idea. I mean it's supposed to be just two at night. And I said I could easily see myself overdosing not because I wanted to - or taking a large dose not because I wanted to kill myself but just because I wanted to take a break. And I don't know what to do about that. In some ways that's an option that I don't want to take away from myself but obviously it doesn't seem like a very wise one, which is why I'm telling everybody about it. [00:06:15]
THERAPIST: Right. Well what's the danger? I mean can it kill you or do you have a bad [inaudible at 00:06:20]?
CLIENT: I don't know. I looked it up. I think in conjunction with alcohol it can kill you. Certainly in conjunction with other drugs but not with any other drugs that I have access to.
THERAPIST: Yes. And she wasn't more explicit about her worry what could happen, just that you take too many or take them too often?
CLIENT: No she didn't say it was in reference to that. I just infer it from that in that note that I had just written to her. And I think her thought was something to the effect of I could try new medicines in a stable environment and be more closely monitored. Which, I don't know. Outpatient doesn't seem that useful to me since it's the evenings that are problematic anyway.
THERAPIST: Did you get much from when you did...
CLIENT: I did their CBT program and I got a lot out of it. But I also went on the Internet and it's the same program. So I'm not sure that I would get as much out of it the second time around.
THERAPIST: Probably not. Would it...
CLIENT: But there were people there who were there for the second time.
THERAPIST: Right. I mean do you use that stuff much? Does it help?
CLIENT: I don't use it as much as I should. The stuff that I've managed to internalize, infuse does help.
THERAPIST: And maybe that's the advantage of doing it a second time. I'm not suggesting that yet, but I think that would be the thing, would be to kind of... [00:08:14]
CLIENT: Yes, I don't practice it as much as I should but certainly, I mean the kind of the framework or kind of mindset of it is a really useful way for me of saying well you can use your external situation to influence your internal emotions. And I can change my behaviors; I can't change my thoughts. I think you can guess why that would be an appealing thing for me.
THERAPIST: Yes, I think yes, I can.
CLIENT: And really where I run into trouble is where I come up against the limits of that kind of thinking because, you know, as I found out it does have limitations. But where I worry about that program is that everybody there, all of the treaters there, all like the stuff. And they've all kind of drunk the Kool-Aid and it's their job to really push this one therapy and I feel like I would be a person who's constantly saying it's not working for me enough. This is not good enough for me. And I don't know if that would be useful to people around me. I don't know that that would be useful to them, I mean it probably would be useful to them in terms of if you could practice.
THERAPIST: It might not be useful to you; it might be really...
CLIENT: It certainly would be isolating for me.
THERAPIST: And I would imagine maybe really upsetting that somebody says okay here's some tools you can use except when it's really, really bad and you always need something to hold onto. In which case, they're not going to help you. [00:10:10]
CLIENT: And the thing is the one is really, really bad. They - the singular (ph) logical tools do actually help.
THERAPIST: Like what?
CLIENT: Like really intense exercise, very cold, very hot, finding ways to lower my blood pressure, finding ways to distract myself, basically like crisis management things.
THERAPIST: Do you do those things when you're...
CLIENT: To some degree, yes. Not unless I need to. I don't - it's hard to think of them when I'm in the crisis or hard to see that they would be useful.
THERAPIST: When was the last time you tried those?
CLIENT: I don't remember.
THERAPIST: So a while ago?
CLIENT: Yes. And this may be reasonable or may not be but I kind of feel like the point of the pressure program is to give you the information and you're the person who has to use it. And it's on me because I'm not using the information. Even I typed up all my notes a couple months ago for a habit.
THERAPIST: Well I imagine you're not using that stuff [inaudible at 00:11:43] because you don't want to.
CLIENT: How do you mean? [00:11:55]
THERAPIST: Well, I'm not sure entirely why you don't want to but you have it available and you're telling me you think it probably would help when things are really bad and you don't do it. There's probably good reasons you don't want to do it. I'm not trying to make a case at the moment, more to try to figure out what's going on. I guess in part because, yes, I'm just saying look at a bigger issue than needing a refresher in the partial program to reacquaint myself with UDT (ph) or DET (ph) for techniques for imagining especially when I'm having a really, really hard time. It really means that much more than needing that is using them. And yet they're available; there must be some reason why you don't want to use them. [00:13:35]
CLIENT: I honestly don't know.
THERAPIST: Sure, well if we...
CLIENT: I mean if, well I mean it seems like a real possibility since it's hard for me to think about...
THERAPIST: Well how about this, if we permit the possibility unconscious...
CLIENT: I guess. Yes, I remember regretting that statement. [00:14:13]
THERAPIST: I'm sorry.
CLIENT: No, no, it's okay. It's more that it didn't say what I really was wanting to say.
THERAPIST: Where I'm really going is that there's some part of you which takes charge when you're feeling that bad that really has it in for you.
CLIENT: I mean there is certainly the impulse that when things - to make it worse. But I think a lot of that is that it has to get to a certain level of badness before I can ask for help or before I can get help or do things to make it better. I don't feel very justified in complaining about I don't know on leave - that seems stupid. But that's part of the same thing is that kind of inability to focus, boredom, feeling like I can't be engaged in the world. That's one of the first steps that ends up with me in [inaudible at 00:15:29] suffering. But it's not suffering, really. It's just, I don't know, useless.
THERAPIST: I mean at each stage I think you have some resistance to doing things that will help and when it gets bad enough you can at some point eventually overcome that. But I think you have to fight for it at any point sort of along the slide because at one point it's not bad enough, and probably later on you don't deserve it. That's the sort of stuff that gets in the way of you using more of the CBT stuff and I think probably seriously forgetting about it when you're feeling bad. [00:16:29]
CLIENT: That instead of saying okay what are my options, I go straight to I have no options or...
THERAPIST: Yes, or I'm suffering, [inaudible at 00:16:44] suffering; I'm not worth anything else. Only by exacting something from myself, the cutting or by feeling so awful can I hope to feel better again otherwise I have to pay for it.
CLIENT: Certainly that.
THERAPIST: Rather than doing something to distract yourself, which again points to suffering at that state of being.
CLIENT: Yes. I mean the kind of - the medium level distractions I think are where I'm most successful at putting CBT steps into action. I'm kind of saying yes, find the things that make me feel good and to do them in a conscious way and I don't know, mindful of things I'm not very good at. I think that there's so much latent philosophy to it and I don't buy the philosophy necessarily and I think it's b******t to try to push this technique without acknowledging that there is this really well thought out thought system behind it and that you have to believe in the thought system if you think it's going to work. [00:18:50]
THERAPIST: Tell me what your [inaudible at 00:18:54], critique.
CLIENT: But I mean I feel like it...
THERAPIST: No really, what's your critique?
CLIENT: Oh it's just that I don't - it's a Buddhist philosophy and I don't buy Buddhism. I don't think that the, not annihilation, but the disappearance of the self is what you want. I really don't think that. I reject that out of hand. And I don't think that life is suffering and that existence is suffering. I just don't think that. I think that existence is fundamentally good. So a lot of it is the techniques that go along with it, I had to find my own philosophic way to bear. It's been really helpful for me that when things are bad just say to myself okay, it's this bad. It's not worse; it's not better. Things are this bad. This is how you feel. And just sometimes that helps. [00:20:22]
THERAPIST: Some of the way I could imagine this sort of relating to you in particular is that, I mean growing up anyway and I think in certain aspects in the present as well, you have developed or have been made to feel like you don't actually exist. You don't really want to contribute to more of that.
CLIENT: You know, now that you mentioned it, yes that's pretty accurate.
THERAPIST: I meant for you my other stuff could feel like devaluing or sort of de-emphasizing the importance of what you think and feel, which is a retraumatizing question whether I were sort of antithetical to really what you want to be building for yourself ongoing with your life which is to value, see the importance of, appreciate sort of the importance of feelings that relate to what's going on with you at a given time. Is that...
CLIENT: Yes, yes. And the other half of it in terms of the kind of techniques that they particularly that they talk about are being present, being in the moment. And I can see that being very useful but it's extremely difficult for me because I've always been an escapist because the things that have been helpful for me are to get out of the moment. And so - yes, yes. [00:22:35]
THERAPIST: Yes.
CLIENT: Then everything he talks about is a smile all the time. I just don't trust you when you smile all the time.
THERAPIST: Like a sort of hokey, misty-eyed kind of smile. I mean I'm exaggerating.
CLIENT: A little bit. Or is it, I don't know, like a camp counselor kind of smile. You don't feel like it's there for any reason other than to appease the people, to appease me.
THERAPIST: I see, like the happy campers rather than really being interested and invested in what's actually going on with you.
CLIENT: Yes. I've certainly met people and known people who've been truly at peace and in contentment and I would say lead holy lives and that's a really different thing. [00:24:15]
THERAPIST: Yes. I would hope so. I mean just getting that involved is missing and devoid of weight (ph), that would be a real problem I would think. Well I guess I can see the reason why or some of the reasons why you don't want to use that step sometimes.
CLIENT: Yes. You know, I think what I need to do is read it and get to understand it and get to see where it's coming from and then find the places in my own way of thinking and in my own tradition that can work toward having the same effect because I mean I don't think that you have to - I don't think that you have the erasure of the self as the ultimate goal in order to achieve peace of mind. I just don't.
But - so to go back to the hospital, I just don't think it's a good idea because here's the thing. I'd be working with people I don't know and that's already a problem. I wouldn't have a choice really as to who I was working with. I could possibly switch doctors but I'd have to make a really big fuss and everybody would be irritated with me and it would be a mess. And I feel like I'm working with you three times a week, which is a lot, and that's a relationship that's kind of already established and that's working really well for me and I don't...I don't know. [00:26:57]
THERAPIST: Yes, I know, I...
CLIENT: But I can't - I don't trust my own decision making any more, and so...
THERAPIST: Sure. I'm inclined as well to hold off, at least for the time being, for a few reasons. You might not get admitted to the interview in the first place. Second of all, with either of these things I'm not sure you'd be in that different of a place when you were done.
CLIENT: Exactly. I mean it's all very well - great, so you keep me safe for a week but then the week's up.
THERAPIST: Right. And for you finding some way to adapt or kind of make your own techniques that you'd be learning probably matters a lot more than being sort of presented with them again.
CLIENT: Yes and it just gets frustrating because it's in a lecture format and you know where they're going 20 minutes before they get there. And it's exactly the same thing as being in a classroom with a whole bunch of people who don't have the same background that you do. And I'm not my best self in those situations. I'm just not and I don't want to be exposed. [00:28:40]
I just don't - I'm not that - I don't feel like I'm that bad but I don't have any way of really understanding what that would mean any more. I'm just so up and so down all the time.
THERAPIST: Well, I think - I don't think anybody would even be thinking about how [inaudible at 00:29:41] hospitalization program if it worked for the lowest 5 percent of where you get. Other than that, because some of the things aren't very tough, but I think that's what makes everybody anxious and...
CLIENT: But to be honest, I think where I am is the lowest 5 percent and where I would need to be to kill myself I think there's still a space, probably because I've never gotten to a point where I've attempted suicide. But, I mean I don't want to f*** it up, so. I'd have to be that bad for several days at least and that's not likely to happen. [00:30:41]
THERAPIST: No, you tend to reach out and you haven't attempted suicide and I don't know if any of these things, with the possible exception of some adjustments to medications but that - sometimes that really helps with it. The other stuff isn't the same, do you know what I mean? So, sure it's kind of scary but okay.
CLIENT: What's your take on medications actually? I don't think - I just have to ask you that.
THERAPIST: Sure. I guess fairly simple and problematic. Sometimes they really help and sometimes they kind of help and sometimes they don't help. I mean I...
CLIENT: Okay. [00:32:03]
THERAPIST: I mean people have very different reactions to them in my experience both in terms of the benefits and side effects. And I have seen them crucially help people to the point where they can function and do things like therapy much more effectively and safely. But I've also seen instances where they don't seem to help that much or there's a lot of trying. I mean there's always this sort of try this, try that, see what helps kind of thing...
CLIENT: And a lot of things make things worse.
THERAPIST: Yes, yes they do and so - yes I mean I sort of have another spiel (sp) as far as when somebody's considering medication or a parent's considering medication for their child and saying is it worth trying out, it's sort of a I don't think that's quite the question you're asking me but I have to accept it.
CLIENT: Not that different?
THERAPIST: Not that different, yes, kind of response to that question. But yes, I mean I had started seeing in those cases where it really crucially helps and makes a big difference, and others where it doesn't.
CLIENT: Okay.
THERAPIST: Did you have any more specific?
CLIENT: Not right now. I just...
THERAPIST: I suspect that your experience has mostly been a they don't really help one.
CLIENT: Yes. The Adderall helped somewhat but nothing else really seems to. And I haven't tried everything.
THERAPIST: Yes?
CLIENT: Yes. Okay thanks. [00:34:40]
THERAPIST: Sure. Sure.
CLIENT: So it's not where you put all your faith?
THERAPIST: In that case?
CLIENT: Yes.
THERAPIST: No. And sometimes it really helps from focused depression and especially with psychotic symptoms I guess is one place where it could really help where somebody could just be so overwhelmed by a psychotic symptoms that they can't even...
CLIENT: That they can't even do the therapy.
THERAPIST: ...function or do therapy. And the medication can help settle them down enough to where they can think, use insight and feel like they're in a consistent relationship or something like that or just function enough in their daily life. So, that kind of thing I've seen. But sometimes that's not what happens.
CLIENT: I have a couple of friends for whom the medication has really been the thing, which is really nice. But others [are in] (ph) traffic.
THERAPIST: There's something else that you raised which I think originally I can ask but I think I can answer that is it's not the same - I've thought about this before, actually - it's not the same loss itself in depression core trauma... [00:36:20]
CLIENT: I know. I know. I mean I think I understand the concept in Buddhism and that it's not so much a loss of self as that it's the sameness and essential unity of the self with everything else and that you're kind of looking for the deepest awareness of that unity, as I understand it. Obviously I'm not doing and may not understand it all. But I just - that's just not how I view the world. I'm sorry but...
THERAPIST: No, that's all right.
CLIENT: And it is scary.
THERAPIST: Yes, I mean when people talk about it as part of feeling bad, it's one of the worst most terrifying experiences I hear people describe.
CLIENT: Yes I mean my whole - the thing that was worst for me about being in public school was not necessarily being bullied, it was that I didn't even exist.
THERAPIST: And...
CLIENT: I don't know if that was exactly what you were going for but... [00:38:03]
THERAPIST: Not exactly but I think closely related. Okay, here's how I'm going to reframe the mind from this day out. I'm not a huge mindfulness champion. I'm not like rah, rah, mindfulness. But it is a tool that could be helpful to you. I'm going to take up your critique and perhaps completely mutilate. But whatever, I'll rewrite it. So what if they make the case that the mindfulness they teach is part of the routine is really more about containment than detachment. So about being able to sit with whatever feeling you may have, which actually has more to do with appreciating its importance and immediacy as very fact packed than it does with any kind of minimizing. I mean what if mindfulness is more than that? But go ahead.
CLIENT: I like, I mean I like that approach to it and that is I mean kind of where I'm coming from when I say this is how bad I feel and that is helpful, like it is this bad. But the danger for me is that I'm kind of a problem-oriented person. So I say okay I feel this bad; okay what do I do? And that's my stuff I mean about suicide. Okay I feel this bad what are my options? And I don't feel other options available. [00:40:35]
THERAPIST: Because in that moment that's the only...
CLIENT: So to sort of sit with that in that moment it feels like I'm just breaking apart. Like I can't sit with it. But in some ways at other times to have to sit with it and acknowledge it and say yes, it feels like this can't go on another second does help to diffuse it or does help to...
THERAPIST: [inaudible at 00:41:18] it?
CLIENT: ...make it more something that is possible to bear.
THERAPIST: I see. Yes, but I think your point that it reaches a stage where it's just way too much and it really makes you want to die and if you sit there and pay attention to it, you become more and more like that. Is that kind of right?
CLIENT: Yes, yes.
THERAPIST: Well we can stop but I guess I wanted to find a few other things. I'm interested in hearing more about the conversation with James on Saturday. I know you said it was a pretty important one.
CLIENT: Okay.
THERAPIST: Yes? Good. And also the thing I wanted to mention is [I don't have any] (ph) conferences so you can feel free to call me at that hour exactly if you like.
CLIENT: I don't feel free to but I appreciate your saying that I can. I'll work on it.
THERAPIST: Okay. Do you feel too guilty? Like you're disturbing everything you have?
CLIENT: Yes.
THERAPIST: It's okay with me.
CLIENT: Okay, thank you.
THERAPIST: Sure. Have a nice day, yes. [00:43:01]
END TRANSCRIPT
