TRANSCRIPT OF AUDIO FILE:
______________________________________________________________________________
BEGIN TRANSCRIPT:
COUNSELOR: This is Wednesday. (Telephone ringing).
(Answering telephone) Hello? Yes? (Audio break)
(Inaudible) 
PATIENT: ...the stereo. Wakes you up, anyway. With that, oh, a funny thing happened to me last night. It was scary, though. I was standing in the ladies' room. I work two jobs and midnight. I work at night. I was standing in the ladies' room [all the ways] (ph) 
 -  I was standing on the scale yet, and I hear somebody trying to get in the door and I heard a man's voice say something and I didn't understand him. So ahhh... Because the cleaning lady had said somebody had gotten raped up there or attacked or something. 
So I was just standing there, you know, couldn't move from the scale, because I knew it would go choo, choo, choo, you know. So I was like this, doing "I hope to heck he goes away."
Twenty minutes later I guess he had left and the janitor came and he started yelling, "Candy, are you in there," or "Janitor Lady" I guess he was saying; we found this out later. I went, "Candy's not here." He goes, "Is that Jane?" Well, there was a cleaning lady named Jane on that floor. Scared the living daylights out of me, because now he's there. "He knows my name. Who is he? What's he doing," you know? I was so scared. 0:01:22.1 
But it was so funny, because when I finally heard the cleaning lady come and I went out, you know, and everything, then I went down to the fourth floor where I work, but this was on the 9th, 10th or 11th floor, something like this. And I went in and I was talking a mile a minute, because I was real nervous, and then my boss came, whom I've been seeing a little bit off and on. I think he's just a little bit unhappy with his wife. He loves her, though, so I mean, you know, it's just like a side thing he wants and I don't want to give it to him. 
But anyway, I started crying when I saw him. I was fine talking to this other fellow a mile a minute and then I saw him and went, "Seth," and I started to cry. It was so funny because I was so uptight. I've never been like that, I don't think, in a long time. It was something like - well, the reason I think I even brought this in is because - well, was it last Saturday? Yeah, last Saturday. My girlfriend came over, one of my two best girlfriends. And we had a party for her. We had like a birthday party. It was real cute because she didn't know about it. She went in the washing machine, [did my - my other girlfriend ran and she had this cake out from the refrigerator, opened it up, put the candles on, everything while she was in the washroom, and we poured out the coal bucket and were standing there when she walks out the door. 0:02:29.4
But later on we started talking, you know, and part of it was that my other girlfriend had been very hard for a long time and like she couldn't get emotional. And it was really beautiful, because this is the first time I ever saw her have like tears in her eyes when she talked about somebody else. And she was talking about this woman, this older woman that she was real close to. And it was so beautiful because like I never saw her do this before. She was never real soft like that. She was always like - I always took it for sophistication, like "Nothing bothers me," that type of thing, but it wasn't. It was like a hardness that she had put like a shell around her and she had broken out. And in a way it was like, again, that I was left out, but not left out in that they didn't want me to be there, but left out like I saw two girls who had broken through and I hadn't, and I realized I hadn't gotten there yet. It really kind of bugged me because I said, "Ah shit, I wish I could feel like that." 0:03:21.8 
I mean like I can talk about somebody who is beautiful and everything, but this was not my problem was what I'm saying. Like I can get emotional at times about somebody who is really very nice, or like if I see somebody who has really got a detriment physically and they - like they've overcome an awful lot and then I get - I start to feel like I want to cry and things like this. I mean I can do that, but like that was her problem that she broke through, and I've got another problem that I haven't broken through yet. See, like I've always had this sensitivity towards people, but she kind of blocked it out for a long time.
COUNSELOR: That's something you have to do?
PATIENT: Yeah. See, there's only like - they've broken through like - see, she had a different front to break through than I had. I don't even know exactly what breakthrough it is that I've got to break through.
COUNSELOR: But just seeing that made you feel that you had a place to go there. 0:04:20.9
PATIENT: Yes. Someplace like I haven't come yet. You know, and like - this was the way I tied the two things together is that I went into the washroom, and it shocked the heck out of me because like I'd never thought like this before. I mean in the higher - being really upset I might say something like, "Jesus, I wish I was dead." So then 'm very coldly sitting on the toilet and saying to myself, "Well, if in six months I don't find out what the hell is wrong with me, you know... Like I don't care about the hurt, but if I know what's wrong with me so that I could remake my life," I said, "I'm going to kill myself." And I just thought of this very, very calmly and coolly and I was thinking different ways that I could do it that wouldn't be real bloody, because who wants to be bloody. I'm being a little dramatic, but not bloody. 0:05:01.7
So I said to myself, "Jesus Christ, you know, here I am very, very coldly calculating that well, "It's been six months, I've given myself enough time, and I'm going to kill myself," and that's ridiculous. And then you turn around the next week, you know, and you're sitting in this situation and you're wondering, "Oh, Jesus, what happens if he's got a knife, you know."
COUNSELOR: Yeah.
PATIENT: You know, like the type of thing... And I put that together myself the other night. Last night when I got home I almost cracked up, because it was so funny like, within a week - not even a week, like four or five days - of the difference. You can say like you don't value life or anything, and then the next week, when it really, really comes right down to it, where you could be getting killed, it's a little different.
COUNSELOR: Yeah.
PATIENT: Oh, it was so funny. But anyway, that was really a nice party, except that, you know, I kind of felt like I wish they wouldn't have brought that up then, because I really felt badly afterwards. I mean we had a ball. We all got drunk and everything, you know. They had to go up and...
COUNSELOR: Well, what could they have brought up?
PATIENT: But they brought up, you know, like my problem. I didn't want them to. I mean like it was her party. And I felt like I kind of cheated her for at least a little while, but she got real emotional and she almost started crying after I was bawling all over the place. The other one was almost crying. This is her birthday party and they're bringing up my problems and you know, like everybody is getting all emotional. I didn't think it was right. 0:06:15.6
COUNSELOR: It was too much attention to you.
PATIENT: I didn't - yeah, partly that, and partly I wouldn't mind so much attention. It's the idea the height of attention. Like who wants you - like here you are, you go, "Happy birthday," you know, boo-hoo-hoo, everybody is bawling. You know, like to me, that's not the way to celebrate a birthday, so I felt a little bit bad about that, you know. I felt nice that they both said, you know, "Like we both care and we're both here if you need us," but I didn't like the idea of taking it on them. We could have brought it up some other time. But anyway, it was a pretty good party, laying around. They all got bombed (chuckling) and then we also get real goofy. 0:06:52.3 
But it kind of scares me that the only time I can feel like I'm really having fun now almost, or that like I don't have to escape like to this dream world or whatever to really feel like I'm happy inside... Like you know, I'll run around at work and that and I'll be singing and this and that, but it's not because I'm really that happy, it's because I'm so damn bored or whatever. I'm not satisfied. 
So what I'm doing is when I'm singing I'm not really like in a dream world or something, but like singing makes me happy, you know. Just the singing itself, like singing out loud and that; it takes me out of the situation and like makes me feel almost like I'm not there. It's not like when I'm escaping to a dream world where I'm fabricating a world. It's like I'm there. I know I'm in the office and I'm there and I'm functioning, but I can't really explain it. It's like singing really has something for me. It's kind of like a release for me and I like that, and that's why I'm running around the office singing. And I'm happy when I'm singing, and everybody says, "Why are you so happy in our office?" Well, I said to myself, "Shit," you know. "When I'm working I'm at unhappy as you are, because I can't stand it." But I don't know, it's just... 0:08:05.9 
COUNSELOR: Let me see if I get that. That's like a new thing for you. You don't have to go off in your head into fantasy. There are other ways that you find to be happy. Is that right?
PATIENT: Yeah, this is partly it. This is why I say probably singing would be a good thing for me, because it's something I could do for a long time and enjoy it, you know. It's not like typing; I can't stand it. I've been typing for years and I still can't stand it. Or other times that I like it is when I'm communicating with people, like when people come in and it's real nice, you know. Even if it is just to ask a fellow if he wants coffee or what does he want in his coffee or some stupid thing like this. It's just, you know, like then I'm communicating. It's like, say, "Oh, my gosh. Here is another human being that I've never met before, and it's like a whole new experience," and that really intrigues me. 0:08:49.5
But like the regular work drives me crazy, Jesus, blah. But, you know, I guess you have to [add though] (ph) accept it. Like I know those two, like I had the radio on last night, and for this fellow I just type envelopes right now, but I make good money at night, so, you know, why not? I need the extra money. 
But I can type earphones (ph) like if I've got the radio going or something, it doesn't bother me, because like I type with the rhythm and I'm sort of halfway listening to the song and I can do that and still type without making all sorts of errors. 0:09:25.5
But like at my office, I don't know. And then there are other things. Like we've got this office manager, and partly I think it's me. In fact, I'm sure it's me, because I always did feel like that, you know, like people are picking on me. But like I'd come in late lots of times, like almost all the time, and I got really mad because I got my raise and everything, but they had like an evaluation, and she had the only derogatory remark of that whole office about me. You know, like I had good on everything else, excellent on the communications with staff and clients, and then like good in everything else, and that was like probably one of the highest ratings around, because most of the girls got good all the way down. 0:10:01.3
And I said to myself, you know, like I got my raise, which is an average raise, and I think the only reason I only got average was because of her remarks, saying I'm always late and I walk around too much. Well, I brought that up with my girlfriend. You know I said - you know, I don't walk around all that much unless I've got something to do. But she said, "Yeah, I think maybe you do," because like before she went into therapy she used to do it as like a parading thing, like, you know, "Notice me, notice me, I'm here, I'm cute," or whatever. You know, "Notice me."
And I said, "Yeah, there are times like when I'd cut through like the staff room." We had like all sorts of young fellows. Or I'd go around the side, because like the fellow that I really - like one fellow I kind of dig. I like to try and pass his desk as much as possible. I mean I would have an excuse to get up. It wouldn't be like I just parade around with no excuse, but I would notice myself, yeah, I would take certain little routes and that when I was going some place so that these certain people would see me so that I would be able to say, like, you know, "I'm here." But you know, like I guess I sort of like resented her for doing that. 0:11:08.0
COUNSELOR: For telling you this.
PATIENT: For putting it down on the report, you know, like a bad report on me. Whereas actually that was her job, I guess. But now, you know, the thing I didn't like either is like the next morning I came in and I was like five minutes late, and I'm usually like 10 or 15 if I'm late. And I came up with this one girl who the day before had just said she didn't get her bad report because she's never late, you know, and like I came up with her five minutes late and then she went right to the wash room. And I know her, like ten more minutes in the wash room before she even went to her desk, which meant she came in a quarter after 2. You know, and I said to myself, "Hey, how come? You know, how come she didn't get it and I do?" 
So one thing that I guess sort of sours me is that now she's got a new thing out, being manager, that like all the secretaries have to call in when they come in, so like there can't be anything as far as probably just going for one girl or another, which I think they should have done in the first place. If you're going to pick on one person, make sure that you know there are other people there or they're not there, you know. Of course, I would have done that if I'm a manager, but I'm not. But, you know, like I think it's a good idea. 0:12:14.0
But I really did. I felt like, you know, for a while like, geez, she's picking on me, and really, you know, like I rationalize, because I know that what I did was wrong so who cares about the other person? So what, you know. But I don't do that. I like to rationalize, like to get myself into it. Like the crowd does this so why can't I, you know? Why do you pick on me? 
And you know, I talked to my girlfriend a little bit. I said, "Well, then, why would she pick me? Like I've never done anything to her." Like I was never mean to her, I was never slanting to her or anything like this, you know, before. As a matter of fact, I was in [hell with her] (ph) when she did that to me. 0:12:55.4 
But my girlfriend said, too, she said, "Well, why did you think on these lines, that maybe she saw the little game you used to play with your boss?" You know, like I still do it a little bit, but now I know, so I catch myself and I stop it. But you know, I used to go like this to my boss, I think I told you. "Come on, come on. No, stop. Come on, come on, stop." And you can't do that, I guess, with a boss, especially with a Jewish older man type boss, because he will take advantage, and I know he was doing it for a long time. Like he'd come in and he'd put his arm around me, all this bull, and he didn't care who was there.
COUNSELOR: I'm having some trouble getting hold of this, because it feels a little to me like you're bringing in things to tell me that happen to you or like - I mean it's not quite like reporting, but it's like bringing things in. But what I'm wondering is like, you know, what's real for you right now, and like what are you feeling now about it?
PATIENT: You mean about the whole thing like with the office, what happened? Or are you just meaning...
COUNSELOR: Either that, or just in general. I mean if that's what's real for you, then that's okay. But it sounds a little like you were just telling me what's happening in your life this week sort of thing and I don't get a feeling what's really right now. 
PATIENT: I don't know (inaudible at 0:14:19.7) right now. I don't know. I thought sometimes when I start talking about something that's happened or that's happened to me, I get feelings about it afterwards. You know, like when I talk about it again, I sort of - I either understand why I did something - and then like this may have something to do with my basic problems, you know, that I try to get out. And I guess that's the only reason I say it personally, because I just come out, oooo (ph), whatever comes, you know, like I don't know what to say. And it's very hard for me to say like what I feel right now or whatever. But, see, like if I start talking about something sometimes I get into a feeling of some sort, like a rejection feeling or like everybody's picking at me, feeling the world doesn't love me feeling, that type of thing that - I don't know. 0:15:12.0
You know, sometimes like when we had that party for New Year's I feel - I've got to feel good, because I realize that I've broken through a little bit; that you know, I realize now how to - like to have fun for me is actually to give rather than just sit back and say, "I hope somebody gives me attention, you know." 
COUNSELOR: So here it's like you don't know exactly what to say so you just let whatever comes into your head hang out.
PATIENT: Come out, yeah.
COUNSELOR: And then it's like sort of sorting out...
PATIENT: What I said and what's going on and, you know... Sometimes I think, too, like - I sometimes feel like I'm railing (ph) from one thing to another and I don't understand what has triggered this other stuff. Because like I even thought of what I'm going to say before I come. It's just like I was thinking about last night, because I mean I was thinking about last night from last night to this morning and I'm thinking, "Jesus, what would happen if I got killed?" 0:16:11.0
But otherwise, I don't know. Like I don't know what to say when I come in so I just let out what I've done or whatever comes to my mind. And I guess the only reason it comes to my mind is like it's stuck in my mind, you know, because otherwise it wouldn't be important. And I guess whatever it is I just sort of like mull through it; sometimes I do that on the way home. I wonder like why did I say this, you know? Like where did it come out, where did it come from?
COUNSELOR: Yes, that helps me, it gives me a better sense.
PATIENT: Okay. Because like otherwise I wouldn't know. It's very hard for me to explain like how my life is right now or like what I feel, period, about life. It's too general, you know, to say like what I think my problem is or whatever; it's just too general. The only thing I can do is like say what's affected me, you know, and like sometimes maybe because of my feelings about it and my understanding of what's wrong. I don't know though. 
It was very funny, but my brother has been in my mind an awful lot lately again. Like last Sunday we had somebody call and then we didn't answer the phone because we were hung over from the night before. Then somebody came to the door and they kept ringing the bell and ringing the bell and ringing the bell. And at first we thought it was my girlfriend's mother returning something. So it's like, oh well, so what, she'll leave it with the janitor so we can pick it up when we get up, and there was no note and she always leaves a note. 0:17:46.5
So I like put two and two together and figured, well, my brother has done this kind of thing before. Of course, he'll come over, but usually he doesn't even call. He doesn't even go that far to call, he'll just come over. But I'm wondering like why, if I didn't care about my brother, why would I even think it might be him? You know, it's like I try to deny it a lot of times. It's like I really care. But I think, you know, like deep down, like when I said I didn't love my mother, and it's sort of like it comes back like I love her, but I don't know how to exactly. And like I love her, but like I don't know what to say to make her feel like she's... 0:18:18.8
First of all, she's got a big thing on. She doesn't feel like she's a good mother and all this baloney. So like I can talk to her, but then I've got to be very careful. Because like I wasn't before, and I think partly it was because I was trying to hurt her. You know, I came up with things like - you know, like "I'm not a Catholic any more," and I knew right away that would hit right at the roots, because like she was a Catholic-Catholic. And it was like denying like I really cared for her, because it was like pushing her off, because I felt like she rejected me so, "The hell with you, I'm rejecting you, too." 0:18:52.0
And it's the same with my brother, but I guess it's going to take me even longer. See, first I came to the conclusion like if somebody doesn't love you, you can't force them to love you, but now I've got to get to the point where not only that, but even though he doesn't love me I can still love him, you know. And it's very hard for me to do, because I say, "You don't like me, I'm not going to like you, the hell with you," you know. That's my usual relationship with people. If somebody says they don't like me, I don't have to like them, I can cut them off. But when it's like a family it's a little bit harder to do, you know. Like this is my own brother, so because he doesn't love me I can cut him off just like that? You know, it's very hard for me to do, because I do care about my brother. 
Because like another thing, last night I was reading the Times, and I saw this fellow and he was in some prison or something. And I swear to God, it looked just like my brother. And I said, "Wait a minute." And then (inaudible at 0:19:46.6) use my imagination like my brother. I wonder if my mother is - my step mother was lying to me and he's really in jail or what am I going to do. All these things ran through my mind. And then I said, "Stop getting so darn emotional," because I knew he was out, I talked to him on the phone, so I knew like he wasn't in jail. My brother not, you know, that type. My real brother is not anyway. 0:20:11.1
So I said to myself, "Boy, if he's in your mind that much there has got to be some feeling or something there, because you don't think about people you don't care about, you know."
COUNSELOR: What is the feeling?
PATIENT: I don't know, but like with my brother I feel very hurt mostly. Like every time - like when I went out there at Christmastime and I'd see this gorgeous stereo. I mean it's not like I wanted him to buy me a stereo. But it's the idea like he gives this girl who is not his sister, who is not any relationship to him, something that is expensive. A stereo is expensive. He doesn't make much more money than I do a month. He makes like - well, what do I make, about six? And plus a little extra, it's almost - it's like maybe 600 a month and then maybe a little extra typing and like that's it.
COUNSELOR: It's like you're replaced.
PATIENT: Yeah, right.
COUNSELOR: Very replaced.
PATIENT: And he makes like 900 a month, yeah. So you know what I'm saying; it's proportionate; that like he makes either (ph) in a month or something like this. 
And you know, like I'm making, what, about maybe three-fourths of what he's making and I couldn't afford a stereo for somebody, unless, you know, I really scrimped and saved and really cared, because he's got a car, too. 0:21:19.1
COUNSELOR: So not only are you replaced, but it's sort of like slapping you in the face with it, because it's...
PATIENT: Yes, because it's such an expensive gift comparatively to what he makes. And then like he gave her a watch for her birthday and all sorts of things, you know, or a clock radio, I don't know what sort of birthday... But I mean expensive things he gets her. Not even a card to his sister. I mean like that's not... All right, maybe because she's a young girl and her parents don't make all that much money and he'd like to get her something special. Even that I can condone, but not to even call me or take me out for a drink or do something, you know, like I'm his sister.
COUNSELOR: Yeah, like nothing is for you.
PATIENT: Nothing for me, you know. And it's like I sit there and I think, Jesus Christ, you know, I've got a brother and he doesn't even care about me, you know, and you're supposed to - you know, I guess then going right back to me. He's supposed to care because he's my brother, and I guess like you can't say that, because just because he's my brother doesn't mean he's supposed to care. 0:22:13.9
COUNSELOR: But that's the way it should be, like if you don't have that you miss something.
PATIENT: Well, you know, I bring stuff for Mary, too, and also for my other step sister, and like they're only my foster sisters, you know. And I feel myself I've only got one real brother, and he's really my brother. You know, I can say, "This is my brother and he's really mine, you know," and I can say this because he is my blood brother. And then I say to myself, "I can say it, but you know, like, big deal, you know." It's kind of hard to say like - I think I said this before - I think it's kind of hard to say to somebody, you know, like "My brother lives eight blocks from my house and I haven't seen him but maybe once since I've moved here and I've been here for eight months," you know, and people say, "What do you mean eight months? You've got your own brother this close," all this bull. 0:23:02.1
And I don't know, you just - to me it's really kind of a bad scene that he's like that, that he doesn't want me. But you know, again, like if I stop getting emotional about it I could say, well, like he's going through a bad time, too. And just talking to him the last time I knew he's near a nervous breakdown again, because I mean he's almost incoherent. He speaks like two miles a minute, you know, boom, boom, like this, and he never used to do that, you know. 
And then like if you touch on a touchy subject or something, he's, doomgh (ph), you know, like he's really - that's just like defensive. But he's almost like up in a rage, just for like no reason. Like "All right, I disagree with you, so what?" And it kind of bugs me in that way. Of course, it also bugs me that he's not open-minded at all either, which really bothers me.
COUNSELOR: So there are things about him you don't like, too. 0:24:07.3
PATIENT: Yeah. But sometimes - well, I do this with my girlfriend, too, and I know it. Like lots of times I'll say things like - see, part of it is like my girlfriend has got - and she admitted it, too, like Saturday. She said, "All right, I guess it's hard to live with a girl who's got everything," and she does. I mean she's got like - any boyfriend she wants, any fellow she meets she wants, she can get; it's just like that, you know. And she's got like boyfriends that are rich and all sorts of things and they're real nice and they've got all sorts of plans and everything else and they take her to all the nicest places and she teaches and she makes all sorts of money and she's real smart and she's pretty and she's got like - plus she's nice. 
You know, she's got what every girl would want to have, you know, and she's traveled halfway around the world. She's going to go all the way around the world next year. It's just like the girl who has everything, and then you've got the girl living with her who's got nothing, you know. And you're sitting there, oh, Jesus Christ, you know. 0:25:06.8 
Like it bugs me even more again, because I know I've got the capabilities, at least mentally. I'm sure I'm almost as smart as she is, because I think - when I think, when I turn my mind on and really think about it, I can think almost as fast as she can. So I know I'm probably as smart or almost as smart as she is. So I've got the capabilities of doing like almost everything she's done and it really bugs me that I haven't done hardly anything yet and she's - I know she may be a little older. She says she's about five years older than I am, four or five years. You know, and you kind of think, "Gee whiz, you know, four or five years I'd never get done what you've got done." And it really kind of bothers me, because I can't help but compare myself with her. You know, like when you live with somebody. I don't know, maybe it's not with a normal person. With me, I've always compared myself with somebody else. 
COUNSELOR: And that comparing just always leaves you one down. 0:25:54.8
PATIENT: Yes, right. Well, I mean when you've got a girl like that and you're living with her and people come over... And she shares her friends to a certain extent, but again, like she's got that insecurity about her father so she - it's like that far, and that's as far as you go. Otherwise, you're flirting or you're doing this and that. And like lots of times I know I'm not, you know. It's just like sometimes I just didn't know what to do. I didn't know like what the line is for politeness and things like when does it become a fellow is like - not taking advantage, but like getting too spoiled. I mean in the area of like when you come in, take his coat, when you get him a drink, make sure he's getting a drink. If he wants something to eat, ask him. You know, like whatever. You know, like I don't know how far to go in that area yet, because I just haven't been around that much. 
And so you know, because of that, like things are like you're flirting or not flirting with him. I just want to make sure he's got a new drink or whatever, you know. 0:26:52.5
And so I'll come back with something. I remember that one time I did that, I came back with something. She said, "Cuidado." That's Spanish for "Careful." And I said, "Ah, you cuidado," you know. Because we were both half stoned by that time, too, you know. And it was like, oh, we had this weird thing going. We've got this friend, and I don't know like why she dug him at first, whether I - I drew up (ph) because maybe it's just me, you know, because I like to almost cut her down so that, in my eyes, she's not quite the far above, you know, so I cut things down that she does. 0:27:33.6
COUNSELOR: It sounds like that's the important thing in there; that you really - she has a lot of things that you really want, right?
PATIENT: Yeah, right.
COUNSELOR: You really want to be like her.
PATIENT: Yeah. And then sometimes I have to sort of check, so I say like, "Well, she's not so great. You know, like she's got balls, too. She's not so great. They're just dumb that they don't see them or whatever, you know. She's selfish, too, you know." And then it doesn't make me feel so badly, you know, like because then when I compare myself with her I just say, "Well, yeah, but look, you know, something like - what can I say? She's got a lot of self-worth and like - a lot of times she'll say like - well, she can be too much of a bitch and I really don't like... 
Sometimes when we're out with fellows, like she says she doesn't like the way I act towards them, because I try to be smart-mouthed, too, and I'm not; it's just not my nature, because she is very smart-mouthed with a fellow. She calls it witticism; I call it being smart-mouthed. 0:28:30.7
You know, to be witty is one thing, but there is a way of handling it. And sometimes it's funny and like I laugh and some of the things she does is really cute, but sometimes like she goes overboard to the point where like I don't even like to listen to her and I know the fellows get irritated. But like what do you say...
COUNSELOR: On the one hand you can see she has faults, but on the other hand she seems like perfect or something.
PATIENT: Or at least an awful lot more perfect than I am. Like that came out Saturday, too. I said, "Not a lot further advanced," or something like this. I said, "A lot better than I am," And it sort of just came out, like I just blurted it out, "Well, like I know you're a lot better than I am." 
Like she was telling me like I haven't been at home. I haven't been like really that upset very often. Like I can go to work from here. Like once in a while I go to work from here and I won't be able to work very much, because like I'll be thinking about what happened or whatever, you know, what I said, and like when I realized that my mother would never pay any attention to me or that it's like my brother didn't love me and things like that, that bothered me a little. 0:29:35.8 
But like I could almost turn off and finish the day and then go home and then sit there, like I sit in the wash room or someplace away from her and I just sit and I think, you know, how whatever would come would come, you know, and I'd just sit by myself. 
But she says like, well, I could do that at first, but this is why she says it's going to take me a long time, because like I don't get real upset. That's what she said. But see, like, this was the thing I was trying to explain to her. Like I'm different from her, you know, and I just don't like the idea - like I know I've copied her and I still do a little bit, but I don't want to anymore, you know. I'm to the point now where I really just don't want to copy her, partly because maybe she's been kind of pounding it into me, like a photocopy is never as good as the original and all this. 0:30:22.4
COUNSELOR: But also something for you, like you really don't want that.
PATIENT: Yeah.
COUNSELOR: (Cross talk)
PATIENT: It's partially me, because I've always been an independent. I've always been like a loner. Almost all my life I was like a loner. And then I guess partly it's because I really get to - finally found somebody like a friend, like I'd never had before, you know, like I was really kind of pretty close. And like I'd been through lots of things, like I improved a lot for help and this and that. But like I don't feel quite as - like I look back at myself two or three years ago, I think well, all my life I did improve a little bit, because I was really bad off.
COUNSELOR: So it's good not to be a loner in that sense, but then you kind of went over the edge.
PATIENT: I went over it, right, and it was like not only did I not want to be a loner any more, but I didn't like the way I was or who I was or what I was. And so I was trying to take on this, because I thought look what she's got, look at all these friends. It probably was a thing with me that I guess I really wanted friends, but I would never go out of my way to like be a friend or whatever you want to call it. Like I would never - I would always expect that people would come to me; it was like I expected that, you know, and I don't have to do anything, you come to me. It was a very selfish thing.
COUNSELOR: Yes, so you learned a new way to be. 0:31:41.5
PATIENT: Yes, through her, and then what the idea was is then I thought, well, people really dig her because of what she does or what she is or whatever, so like I was trying to be like her. And then I thought, "Well, you know, then people will dig me, too, or people will like me." 
COUNSELOR: I think for you in that was that you really wanted that to happen. You wanted to be close to people and you would just find any way you could to make that happen.
PATIENT: Right, right. I guess I just didn't know; that was the big thing. I just never learned, you know, like how to communicate or whatever, or even to communicate enough of an emotion. I really can't explain it, but like it works sometimes even, partly because I don't care about the people, really. I don't care about that. There's not very many - there is like one girl in the whole office that I kind of like; I think she's a nice girl and we're fairly good friends, but like the rest of the people I couldn't care less about. You know, just the heck with you. 0:32:37.9
But it's like I would come in, and like if I had something to say - partly because Jodie like, does most of the talking in our house - you know, like if I sit down to have a talk with her, ha-ha, I sit down and I listen; that's all I do most of the day. And so like if I did something and I wanted to share it with somebody, I just sit and I talk like this, [shh, shh, shh, shh, shh, shh] (ph), you know, and get it out, because like I hadn't talked to anybody.
COUNSELOR: Yes, so much has been bottled upside. 0:33:05.6
PATIENT: Right, right, that it was just anybody. Whoever was there, you know, "Sorry, you've got it, you've had it, sit down, I want to talk." 
COUNSELOR: So it was like ignoring that they were there, kind of, and just letting everything of yours come out.
PATIENT: That's what it was, yeah, and it was like a selfish thing, that like I didn't let them share, either, like. Even if they started to talk a little bit it would just be like [shh, shh, shh, shh, shh] (ph), and I'd be talking again, you know. And I guess that came from like a long time ago, too, because like when I was at [White Hairs] (ph), when I was like lots younger, between, what, 9 and 12, I wouldn't talk hardly at all. I mean like I'd say whatever I had to say and I mumbled, I've always mumbled.
COUNSELOR: Yeah. But like maybe it was selfish, but for years you couldn't ever do that with anybody and you really needed to do that.
PATIENT: Right. And even at school like I didn't talk all that much, I don't think. I used to talk when like the teacher wasn't there, but mostly I was a reader. Like I would sit down and, boy, if I could sneak a novel or something behind a regular school book I'd do it and I'd be in there reading and I was always like that. Or I'd stay up until 2 in the morning and read by the hall light. That's why I'm wearing these. 0:34:17.6 
And it was like I really was becoming an introvert, which is not natural for me, because naturally I'm very extroverted; I love people, you know. And it really I guess has bugged me. It must have really done quite a bit to me to be that way. Now, I don't know exactly why I got that way, but I do know that like I was, you know, like really into myself, like a real shell.
COUNSELOR: And then when you began to come out it had to be then you hadn't learned ways to be with people. 
PATIENT: Yes, right.
COUNSELOR: Like putting you into that.
PATIENT: Right, you know, and it's hard to learn, you know. And it's like when I'm relaxed and - let's see, how can I say it? - just me. And sometimes I really can't understand it. Like I've always liked the idea of people enjoying my company or whatever, you know. It's like, well, you want people to enjoy you, you like to be with people you enjoy, and you also like people to like you and have you around, and you like to say things that they like to hear type of thing. Not so much like I told a big story or something because somebody wanted to hear it, but it's like you like them to receive you well, you know, and whatever is important to you. 0:35:36.5 
And I find myself like sometimes I'll say something that they'll just crack up and I can't understand what's so funny about it, because like I didn't think it was funny, but maybe it's just the way I said it, you know. And yet, if I try to be funny, or like when I was trying to be smart-mouthed and I thought, "Boy, that's clever, ha-ha-ha-ha, you know, boy, did I say something," everybody just kind of looks at me and goes, "Oh well," you know, and you think, "Well, so much for that one. Chalk it up to failure." 
 
COUNSELOR: So it's like you would like people to enjoy you and sometimes that just happens when you're being yourself.
PATIENT: Yeah. But when I'm like - I'm like uptight, I guess, because like I get really nervous, and I didn't realize how nervous until my girlfriend - like last night she said, "You know, that I was sleeping and you woke me up," because I actually tremble at night sometimes. And I said, "I didn't realize I was that nervous. I really didn't." And she said, "Honest to God, you just started to tremble. You scared the living daylights out of me." I said, "Oh, well, that's happened sometimes." Like not exactly that, but like when I'm going to sleep at night sometimes, if I've had like a rough day, and especially if I haven't exercised, because I usually exercise before I go to bed, you know, and then by that time I'm not real - you know, it gets almost all the nervousness out of me. But like I'll go to relax and all of a sudden the body will just go like that, you know, like a little tremor, but she says I actually tremble, and I said, "Geez, I didn't expect that much." 0:37:02.7
COUNSELOR: That's a lot of nervousness.
PATIENT: That's a lot of nervousness is right. And things like - well, she says I do some goofy things, like I talk in my sleep about three nights a week. I said, "Well, did I say? Anything interesting," you know? Like come on, maybe it's something to be important.
COUNSELOR: But you were saying like you get really nervous with people and that's...
PATIENT: Yeah. I guess it's like - but most of it, you know, most of it is like because I'm thinking of me and I'm thinking about, you know, like how are they going to accept me. Like when I don't do that, when I just think like, "Well, here is somebody new, you know, like let's explore" or "Here is somebody new, they seem very nice, you know, like let's..." You know, that's it. And you think like of them or you get interested in what they're saying, and then you find yourself not nervous and being yourself. You know, like that's how I find myself. And again, this is a little bit new.
COUNSELOR: If you can get this out of your head.
PATIENT: Yeah. See, because like always, when I was little or whatever, I can remember things like you had to watch what you were going to say. If you had company, make sure that you don't say the wrong thing and, you know, you've got to be... And that's the type of thing that I got to, like company or people you don't know you've got to be stiff with and you've got to impress them in a very good light. You've got to be very, you know... 
And I don't know, I guess it just sort of grew up with me that, you know, you meet a new person, you've got to give them their (sic) best side or always be, you know... After a while they can get to know whatever you are, but right now they have to think you're really something. And I guess I just sort of run over it and now I have to be smart or now I have to be this or now I have to be that, you know. Whatever I think is supposed to be the epitome of what I would like to be or what I think is supposed to be really, you know... 0:38:49.9 
COUNSELOR: Yes. It's like you have to be a certain way and that holds you in.
PATIENT: Right, right, rather just being what I am, you know. I really tried really hard when I was with her. I know a lot of things, like I try to sound smart. I mean not smart-mouthed even, but like smart; like I'm intelligent, you know. Because this really bugged me, and like I think this has bugged me quite a while and I never realized it. 
Evidently, maybe like when I was small people made the mistake of saying "You're stupid" when you did like a dumb thing or something or what they considered dumb, and so maybe like that grew up with me. And like things like I never thought I was pretty, I really didn't, and I think to myself, "God, is that rotten." You know, now I can look in the mirror and say, "Well, I've got a pretty face" and now I can always say, "Well, I'm fat," and it's always almost like an excuse so that I don't have to say like I'm pretty, because it's almost like I don't want to say I'm pretty, because I guess maybe then it's like saying that you must really have problems because if you're pretty people should like you, and like why don't people like you? See, it's almost like that. See, then I've got an excuse: "Well, fellows don't like me because, you know," and then put it on a physical thing, because then you've got a reason why people don't like you or why fellows especially don't like you. 0:40:13.7
 COUNSELOR: So it's like you really feel people don't like you and then you have to come up with reasons.
PATIENT: Yeah, right. I really felt like - like with judo (ph) people. Like we've got - I call them our friends, but they're not really my friends, they're Jodie's friends, you know. And like she says like three or four people have asked her for the house already and that. Well, all right, she's been with judo (ph) a lot longer than I have, but some of these girls started with me. And you know, I say to myself, "Well, okay, so I've changed classes. They probably haven't seen me as much," which is true, which is maybe part of the reason. Maybe they just don't know me well enough. You know, like they might have seen her two or three times a week and then sure, they're going to ask her out within three or four weeks. But I just feel as if like it's because of something I haven't done or something I lack that people just don't like me.
COUNSELOR: There's something wrong with you.
PATIENT: Yeah, because they just don't like (cross talk) and I don't know why, you know. And it's really kind of a sad feeling, like. If I knew what was wrong - see, I've always been this way. Like she's even said, you know, she says, "You've come a long way in two years." If I know what's wrong I can correct it, or not wrong as per se, but like offensive or whatever you want to call it to like majority of people. I could change it. But if I don't know what's wrong, you know like I can't. It's like saying, well, maybe a skunk got me on the way down here and nobody wants to come here, you know, or nobody wants to talk to me. 0:41:35.8 
Or I find myself - like one time the phone was dead; like both the instructors, because I had given them some cookies for Christmas... Part of it, too, like I don't give enough, Jodie says, so I made them cookies for Christmas and I brought them down.
So they were goofing around; I told you about the beer and that. And so for like an hour we were standing around talking and everything and then I just felt like I got kind of scared. I felt like I'm not being funny enough or I'm not being, you know... And then I regressed into Jodie's type, you know, thing, and it's not natural of me. 0:42:08.6
COUNSELOR: So if people don't like you then you get really desperate and you have to come up with some way to be [so independent] (ph).
PATIENT: Yeah, right, right, or I feel like now my dowdy little personality is completely malnutritions (ph) or whatever you want to call it. Like I run out of material, so let's take somebody else's material to fill in, or there seems to be a lull. But see, like they really have been really nice to me. Like all right, one of the fellows that I did like likes my one girlfriend and the other fellow likes my other girlfriend, but I don't like him anyway.
COUNSELOR: So it sounds like you can't quite believe that anybody would like you just for you.
PATIENT: For me, yeah, because they don't seem to. Well, you know, like I don't have the kind of personality like that she has, I just don't. Like, well, first of all, she can pull off a lot of these comebacks and then people will laugh at them. Well, what I do is they think of [you as sarcasm] (ph) or they think it's dumb. Not dumb, you know, dumb as opposed to being intelligent, but dumb as - not really dumb; dumb is the wrong word. How can I say it? It's like it's not natural. It's like an unnatural thing. And when it's unnatural it doesn't sound right for me, and I know it, but I still find myself escaping into it, because I just don't, like, have the confidence in that what I am is okay. 0:43:30.3 
You know, like all right, so if you keep improving over the years... But it's okay the way it is right now; it's not like something I should be ashamed of, you know. I am ashamed of it. Like I don't like being me, you know. 
COUNSELOR: There's just something about that that isn't legitimate or right or...
PATIENT: Yeah. I wonder myself, you know, like, and when I try to get down to the basics they say, "Look, we're all equal and we're all the same in certain areas that - you know, like we're all like - we're not really what we are here." You know, like the mind isn't even the most important thing, the soul is, and that's even above the mind. And the soul is - and every person can be - I don't know, maybe it can be higher or lower than the other person, but it has nothing to do with how intelligent you are or how - I can't explain it. 
But like rather, what you can do for, like, either other people or how - I can't really say good, because that's so damn relative, but how much love, like, is in you is actually - and I don't mean the emotional type, you know, where you're going, "Oh, I love you, I love you, all this bullshit," but like I can't really explain it. But like I feel like this - when I really think about it, the soul, to me, is really very important, like this real me, what's the real thing down there, and that I can't help but like, because like everybody is about the same; you know, like everybody is higher than like a rock or whatever. 0:45:03.7
COUNSELOR: There's something inside of you (cross talk).
PATIENT: When you get tired of the material, yeah. When you get tired of like the material, when you get down to the material level and then, shit, I have nothing, you know. Or I really can't say nothing, because I can look down and say "Like look at these girls who do filing for a living and that's all they do all day long," and I think to myself, "Well, they're not even going anywhere, they're not doing any schooling at night. They go home and watch the boob tube or whatever and that's like it." And I think, well, I've come a lot further than they have, and yet, I'm not where I want to be, which really bugs me. 
COUNSELOR: There are two things in that: One is for you, that there are things that you want and ways that you want to be that will feel like fulfilling or something.
PATIENT: Yeah.
COUNSELOR: Then there is another one about how you're seen in the eyes of the world and the social thing or something that, you know, people won't see you having that material thing. 0:46:02.9
PATIENT: Yeah, or not even so much outside material things. Like all right, I admit a lot of times I don't dress as well as I should, you know, for what I do, and all right, so what, you know. Like sort of what - [that's probably] (ph) that's all I feel about it. But if I'm going to the other office, because like I do date the boss once in a while, I make sure I look real good and all this, because he really thinks I'm sharp, so I think "Okay, great, you know. As long as I keep getting my money I don't care what you think." 
COUNSELOR: It doesn't matter what he thinks.
PATIENT: Yeah, this is it, because I don't think it and I know it. And this is why I say to myself, "Oh, you're really a sharp girl, you're really..." But he uses the word "tough" because he's from - like where the neighborhood he came from, that means the same thing, good looking or whatever. 
And I guess part of it is because I say to myself, "Well, I guess he's kind of hard up. His wife probably isn't giving him what he wants so he's got to find somebody." And I do that. I find myself saying, "Well, I'm the only girl in the office and I don't think you're so, so lucky" and all this. Not lucky even so much, but like "Don't get your hopes up. It's not because he really believes that you're whatever he's saying you are, it's because like you're the only girl around." Or he met you and compared to what was there I was pretty sharp, but that doesn't mean much, because most office girls are not very sharp in any way. They're not sharp mentally. They're not sharp any way, most of them. They're just kind of blah. 0:47:36.4
And this is why, you know, like I say, this is part of the reason, too, because I'm right in-between. I can't hang around with these girls, because girls my age and even a couple of years older, act like children to me. I just cannot hang around with them. And yet like the older one, like the office manager, I used to kind of like. I used to sit with her, because she's like 40 or close to it. She's been around in terms of traveling and that, and I guess she's going to school now at night, too, and things like this. So like I could kind of talk to her at least, you know, like almost on an even keel. You know, it's kind of goosed (ph) me up and it's like I don't know where I am, you know. 0:48:16.3
Like my girlfriend is only a few years older than I am, and yet, she's got a mind like a 55-year-old in terms of like living and all of the things she's done. And then I get to the point where like I go to the office and then these people are not really - I can't say beneath me, because like, you know, that's not right. Like I say she's above me, but I don't feel like these people are beneath me. It's just like there's nobody there for me. 
COUNSELOR: Yes, no one to match with you.
PATIENT: Right, like nobody that I can even have some kind of a conversation with. You know, like emotionally, especially, they're really children. It is things like, "Oh, I've got to go to the dance." You know, like I don't know, they're just like kids. 
And some of these kids are like - like this one girl had like four years of college and everything, she's very smart, and in turn, like I went to this party and she comes out with some stupid statement like, "Liquor makes me very passionate." I mean - I went ahhh (ph0, you know. You don't say something like that unless you're - like with their office party, people there from your office. First of all, if you want an affair and you want to tell us all, like, signal is go, fine, you know, but don't do that in front of like everybody you work with. You've got to face them. I mean any ounce up here is going to tell you you don't do that, and it's like there is no sense, and that's weird. 0:49:43.3
You know, I just thought of something; this is funny. I notice why sometimes I'm talking and I look at you and I wonder why, why is it like - it's almost like, again, like I'm trying to prove - sometimes I feel this way. Sometimes I feel like what I'm doing is like - I'm saying what I feel, but I'm trying to put it in the way that I hope the smartest in people. Even in your eyes, like I shouldn't have to do that. But like anybody it's like - it's like anybody who I think is above me mentally or whatever, I try to make it look like "Really, I'm not dumb. I'm not stupid. Please don't think I'm stupid, you know."
COUNSELOR: Yes, I had that feeling, that you were doing something...
PATIENT: Yes, and I just realized that. You know, like how am I doing? All I'm asking for his approval. Did I say that right? You know, and that's what just came across my mind, that I do that, like, with people. 0:50:32.6
COUNSELOR: Right. You want to know if I think that that was smart or good or...
PATIENT: Yes, or like, oh God, was that dumb, you know. Like "Please don't, no, don't do that," you know. And it's just like I'm scared.
COUNSELOR: Yes.
PATIENT: It's like - and I shouldn't be scared. This is stupid, but I...
COUNSELOR: You expect that.
PATIENT: Yeah.
COUNSELOR: You expect me to think that you're dumb.
PATIENT: Yeah, right, "I guess that's what it is, because I really don't have the confidence to say, like, you know, "I'm not dumb." You know, that's really strange; I didn't realize that. But I must have really had like a conflict about that for a long time, because it couldn't just be like in the last two years that I really felt stupid, because I don't know why I would. The people I work with, nine-tenths of them, haven't had any college or anything else, and like they don't think half as clearly as I do, nine-tenths of them. Like there is one girl in the office, she was smart. 0:51:25.1
COUNSELOR: But that's not what's important to something. It's like a feeling that sticks.
PATIENT: Yeah, that's what it is. Like I really feel - I should feel ignorant, because I am in lots of ways, this is fine, but I don't feel ignorant, I feel stupid, and that I don't like. Like if I won't catch something right away, I think, "Oh boy, better not let anybody know that because they're going to think I'm dumb," you know. And it's really an important thing to me that I don't feel stupid, or that I do feel stupid and I don't want to.
COUNSELOR: I don't feel like you're stupid.
PATIENT: Yeah, but that doesn't help me any. 0:52:03.3
COUNSELOR: I know that doesn't help, but that's...
PATIENT: My girlfriend will say that, too. Sometimes she'll say - like she'll come out with things like, all right, now I realize this type of thing like when - when you really have an inferiority complex about it, if somebody says something, especially if it's something you care about or something you trust or somebody like you know is this far and you're here, you know, like she said something to me like - this remark stuck in my mind that she said, "Well, for above-average intelligence you certainly don't act it." And I - uhhhh (ph). And I could feel like inside on my - like something in me just going shooooo (ph).
COUNSELOR: right, you wilted.
PATIENT: Yeah, right. And yet like when we were having this talk she said like, "You don't have to bow to this guy," and I realized I had. Like my boss, like it was like he paid attention to me, so he must have seen something there. But it bugs me like when he'll say something like that, too. Like he'll say something about - he was on the phone and he said something about my mind. He said, "Oh, should I call it that." And you know, it was like I constantly found myself defending. "Look," I said, "just because I don't know anything about this I don't want to tackle this bookkeeping," because I was kind of nave in this way; like he was trying to set me up. He knew I couldn't do bookkeeping, but he knew if I did take this job - this other girl was setting the books up - but if I did take this job I'd have to be in late with him, asking him about it, and then he'd have the perfect setup, or he could say, "Well, look what I did for you, now you do something for me," you know. 
And he was setting me up for, you know - using me. And again, I guess I felt kind of dumb - not nave, but dumb, that I didn't realize that this dodo, that's what he was doing, he was setting me up, you know. 0:53:56.1 
And I guess, see, in a way that kind of crushed me, too, because again, it was like saying - because she even said this. She was trying to solve my feelings by saying, "Well, he would have done that to anybody," you know. But the way I took it was like, "Shit, here's another one that wouldn't care less." I could be Jane, I could be Jane, I could be somebody else, and all he wanted was a body, anybody's body. Anybody, he didn't care. So it was like saying, you know, I'm not anybody important to anybody, you know. It's like I'm just sort of an extra; that just somebody takes a long when they want to, and that's just the way I've always felt. 0:54:40.1
COUNSELOR: Yeah, nobody really cares about you.
PATIENT: (Crying from 0:54:43.7 to 58:21.7)
COUNSELOR: (Inaudible at 0:58:20.8) to cry because you were by yourself for a long time and you never really had anybody who could care for you, just you.
PATIENT: All I can think of is say (ph) I don't want to go. I want my mama.
COUNSELOR: Right. You should have had her. You should have. You were a little girl and you needed somebody. You really needed somebody and she wasn't there. 0:59:14.0
PATIENT: It's so like she went away and she would...
COUNSELOR: Yes. How could you make it all by yourself? You need somebody to take care of you.
PATIENT: Every time I really wanted her she wasn't there. I remember crying for her one night and I was about 15 or 16. My step mother says, "Oh, you're nuts. What are you crying for? Do you want me?" And I says, "No, I want my mother," and she thought I was crazy. She says, "Stop being a (inaudible at 1:00:08.5) child."
COUNSELOR: But you needed your mother. She left you all alone and she sent you off to other people's houses. Is that what a mother is supposed to do?
PATIENT: She couldn't help it but I still wanted her.
COUNSELOR: Of course. You were so alone, all by yourself. 1:01:22.0
PATIENT: I was always crying alone, too. We were over at wagers (ph) sometimes and I didn't even know why but I cried. He always made fun of my crying.
COUNSELOR: All by yourself. Such a long time of being alone. 
PATIENT: That's why I don't think I ever wanted anybody close to me. (Crying)(Inaudible at 1:02:08.0) I says, "Don't leave me."
COUNSELOR: Yeah, they go away, too.
PATIENT: I says, "What are we going to do this summer?" They'd just both leave me and I'd do anything to myself, but it's time for other friends and it's time for this and this time we'll be able to have friends, but I knew I still live (ph) empty (inaudible at 1:02:33.2). I knew I couldn't keep on hearing it. It's silly and it's selfish, but they cared, they're the only ones that do, and my brother doesn't love me.
COUNSELOR: Yeah.
PATIENT: I don't even know whether my mother does. And my grandfather got so old (inaudible at 1:03:04.1) me. I remember that. I think he really loved me, but he died and I couldn't even go to see him; they wouldn't let me. They said he's got this big bandage on his head so you can't go see Grandpa. They did see Grandpa, but I couldn't see him and he died. 1:03:42.1
COUNSELOR: Like you run away from your fears.
PATIENT: (Crying) Really was never afraid of me, either. Either that or that table (inaudible at 1:03:54.9) he might still be alive (crying). He was so good.
COUNSELOR: You lost him, too. 
PATIENT: (Crying from 1:04:23.6 to 1:06:49.3)
COUNSELOR: Like that shouldn't have happened to you. You shouldn't have had to be alone like that. You have to carry all that with you.
PATIENT: I haven't even thought about my grandfather for a long time.
COUNSELOR: So it's important to you.
PATIENT: You know what I felt like? My brother was the one, too, that kept me from him, because I remember she told me, my dad didn't. She told me Grandpa was in the hospital and she didn't think he was going to live. So I remember I think I went and cried. I said, "I want to see Grandpa." 
COUNSELOR: And she wouldn't let you go. It was really important to you and she wouldn't let you go. 1:08:00.4
PATIENT: I used to (inaudible at 1:08:10.0) amusement park and we used to go there and have so much fun. I never got treats at our (inaudible), so I - there was an ice cream parlor downstairs. Every day he'd give us a dime and (inaudible at 1:08:25.3). Really the happy time I remember was my brother when I was there. He got the bubble gum all over his face and he laughed and laughed.
COUNSELOR: Good times. You had people and people who cared about you and people who you had fun with. 
PATIENT: And Grandpa really loved me. I really think he loved me.
COUNSELOR: But he died. 1:09:16.5
PATIENT: (Crying) (Inaudible).
COUNSELOR: You really needed him and you lost him.
PATIENT: (Crying from 1:10:00.8 to 1:11:01.1). I remember when we went to my grandpa's and he'd say, "[I guess I'll tell you] (ph). We could just push two chairs together and you can sleep like that." We used to laugh.
COUNSELOR: That was really happy. 
PATIENT: (Crying from 1:11:21.9 to 1:11:39.9). I remember, too, that he'd get a potty chair just for me, because he didn't want me walking out of the hall to go to the wash room and he didn't have one in his apartment. He didn't want me to go out there at night because he would wait (ph) for me, so he got that just for me.
COUNSELOR: Just for you.
PATIENT: (Crying).
COUNSELOR: You really needed that and you really needed someone to care about you and be special. 1:12:36.9
PATIENT: (Crying from 1:12:32.4 to 1:15:59.0). 
COUNSELOR: Hard thing.
PATIENT: (Inaudible at 1:16:08.2). Then I remember when my father's brother died, and I think he was at the wake and like he didn't seem to feel anything. And I was crying and I just kind of felt like he didn't love Grandpa either, because I don't remember him going with us. My mother, my brother and me would go.
COUNSELOR: Someone who was so important to you and he didn't care. 1:17:10.5
PATIENT: And my daddy didn't care about my grandpa. Why did he have to die? He seemed to love me when my daddy didn't and I don't know why.
COUNSELOR: He loved you and he went away.
PATIENT: But I always thought my grandpa went away only because he had to and it was his time to go. 1:18:07.6
COUNSELOR: He left and left you all alone.
PATIENT: But I don't think I ever felt like he left because he wanted to.
COUNSELOR: Because he really did care about you.
PATIENT: I know he really loved me.
COUNSELOR: And he really wanted to stay with you, take care of you.
PATIENT: Because I can remember my father saying that he was spoiling us, and I don't know what he said back, but I know it's something like he loved us and loved me. And he was the one - I didn't even care if he loved Ed, too, because I knew he loved me.
COUNSELOR: Yeah, and that was really important. Mommy and daddy didn't care. 1:19:06.3.
PATIENT: I don't understand why he'd care and they didn't. 1:20:22.4
COUNSELOR: And people who were supposed to care about you just didn't.
PATIENT: I guess this way they might be able to care about me now, sort of like the payback, because I don't feel like anybody else did. But you're my brother so you've got to love me. You know, it's always like maybe because partly because of what he did when I felt like my mom did. Maybe that's why I feel like no one can love me or like me for me, because I feel like I must have done something, you know. Like people don't just not love you, because you naturally love human beings, unless there's some kind of like a monster; and like maybe I guess that's the way I always felt, like there was something wrong, because why would everybody go away? 1:21:22.3
COUNSELOR: Yeah, even your mom and dad.
PATIENT: This whole lifetime I realize my mom was sick and I guess that's why I never really - you know, I felt her because she was gone, but I felt like something like with my grandpa; that like she couldn't help it, she couldn't be there. Because she used to tell me she'd pray for me and she'd always think about me and everything. But you know, like I really didn't blame her until I found out there are lots of sicknesses in head. And the first thing I thought of is that I must have done something, because she didn't love me. She didn't want me there. She didn't want to take care of me. 1:22:07.2
COUNSELOR: There must have been something wrong, something about you, something terrible that makes people go away, something you're not good enough for them to say.
PATIENT: I guess this is why, with fellows, I was so jealous, too, because like if they'd be flirting with another girl it would be like say like, well, whatever it is in you that you're lacking with it, I owe (ph) like, or whatever this girl's got and you don't have it, and I guess that's why I felt so jealous. Because like, you know, I felt like there's something there that just keeps people from me. You know, like - I mean like dumb people. Even if I were real dumb - I know I'm not real dumb, but like if I was real dumb, like people love dumb people, too, you know. Like you don't have to always be saying something that's real smart or like - like I've been to Europe or I've been here or, you know, like there's lots of people that are just nice, and you know, like I feel like that I must not even be nice because nobody wants me. 1:23:38.6
COUNSELOR: Nothing about you is right. Nobody wants you.
PATIENT: And you know, like why? What could a 7-year-old do that was so awful that her parents wouldn't love her? You know, like I was never really all that bad. You know, like I wasn't even that old yet and I was outside playing all day long or in the school, and I wasn't even that bad in school; I had average marks. I didn't try, but I had average marks. I never had - like call me to the principal or anything. Like, you know, why didn't they love me? Why was I so awful, you know, like - and I'd just think (ph) "Why, what did I do? Why doesn't my mother love me?" 1:24:30.6
COUNSELOR: How could you understand that? You were just a little girl trying to make sense of it. It didn't make any sense, and the only way you could understand that was by saying that you did something wrong.
PATIENT: Then she said, "Well, I don't want you to be sent to any crummy place, I want you to go to Springfield because that's where I was. And she told me about what it was those nuns did to her when she was in that nice place. She broke a dish or something, but the nun didn't like her and beat her until she was black and blue, and that's a nice place and she wanted to send me, you know. And I don't know if I even realized it until after I was there, and I kept thinking to myself, this is the nice place? 1:25:30.2 
And like in-between they put me into a foster home for a month-and-a-half and it was like just a transitional one; they didn't keep people there for very long, and I think I really loved them. They just - you know, like they just sort of opened their hearts and they'd let you play and they were good to us, both of them, like anybody who was there, and like we just had fun and we were there like a month-and-a-half. 1:26:01.3
COUNSELOR: And then you had to leave. 
PATIENT: And then I had to leave again, and it was just like - I don't know. I felt like, again, I did something wrong, you know.
COUNSELOR: "Man," you're thinking, "nobody likes me this time either and they're sending me away."
PATIENT: Yeah, and that's just the way it was. It was like, you know, "You're shipping me up. Either you leave or I go," you know. And it's just like I know like relationships of any kind can't be like that. Like people are going to die or people are going to, you know, move or people are going to do whatever they're going to do. Or like - here I was, I said to myself, "I'm so stupid, you know, sometimes," because like I don't want people to stay around me all the time. 
Like I'll have people I'll think I'll like as friends and then I'll either get to know them or they'll change or I'll change and they haven't changed or, you know, and like I just leave them and I go onto somebody else. It's like it doesn't bother me to do that to them, and like it doesn't bother them a great deal. I mean, so what? So they find other friends that are either, you know, like doing what they're interested in or whatever, you know. 
And yet, like, with me it's kind of silly. It's like I'm grasping for something that like won't leave, because like how can I say that I did something wrong because my girlfriends are going away, you know? And yet, like I guess it was the same feeling that welled up. It was just like a feeling, like a feeling, like they're leaving, what am I going to do? It was like a panic almost, too. 1:27:24.9
COUNSELOR: They're going to go away.
PATIENT: Yeah, and it's like...
COUNSELOR: And I did something wrong. 
PATIENT: Yes, I think that's what really was down the basic of it, because like that's what really - I felt like my mother. I felt like I did something wrong because my mother doesn't love me, you know. And like I felt like - like with my grandpa; I couldn't even go to him, and I felt like I should be there, you know. It's like Grandpa loved me. Okay, so Grandpa's dying, he's leaving and he doesn't want to leave but he has to, and they wouldn't even let me say goodbye to him. (Crying) I couldn't even tell him I loved him, you know, and then... 
COUNSELOR: You cared about each other and you couldn't even say goodbye to him.
PATIENT: I knew he wanted to see me. I knew he did, I could just feel it, and they wouldn't let me see him and say goodbye to him. I remember asking my mommy "Please, Mommy, please, I just want to see him one more time, Mommy, please," and she wouldn't let me. 
She kept saying, "You're too young and he's got this bandage and he looks awful" and I said, "I don't care. I don't care. I want to see him." You know, I think right now [I say} (ph) she was trying to spare my feelings and she wanted me to remember him the way he looked. I don't even remember his face. I didn't care about his looks. He was a man, what he was.
COUNSELOR: And she kept you away from him. 1:29:06.9
PATIENT: I couldn't talk to... I really - I just wanted to say goodbye and I love you. That's all I wanted to say to my grandpa. I knew he was going to die; I knew what that was already.
COUNSELOR: She kept you away.
PATIENT: Never realized how much that hurt me, that she wouldn't let me see him.
COUNSELOR: She did a lot of things. She hurt you a lot.
PATIENT: What hurts more is I know she didn't do it purposely. You know, it's just like she didn't know. She didn't know how I felt, and like maybe I just couldn't tell her. You know, like maybe what I said was like maybe a stubborn brat or something like "I wanna, I wanna, I wanna," and she just thought it was like something else that I wanna, wanna, wanted, and it wasn't like the way I really felt.
COUNSELOR: You couldn't get it out. You couldn't tell her.
PATIENT: I did remember telling her I wanted to see Grandpa, because I don't even know if I even told her I wanted to say goodbye to him. But I do know I said, "I want to see Grandpa, I want to see Grandpa," and she wouldn't let me see him. You know, like all right, she thinks it is kind of a spoiled kid talking, but that was a kid who wanted her Grandpa.
COUNSELOR: And she didn't see that. She couldn't see that. She couldn't see what you really wanted. 1:31:04.1
PATIENT: Then like I know she's insecure, too, and like I know I probably got part of that from her, too, because like I remember her saying like that's one of the reasons she didn't see - I felt kind of bad, too, because like I felt like I needed a mother. Even if it wasn't my own mother, I needed a mother. And like I felt like she didn't want me in a foster home right away. I don't know if she told me this or what. Like she'd say, like, when I finally did get into foster home, like, "You're going to love her more than me," or "Do you love her more than me," or something like this. 
It was like - I guess even then I thought, well, maybe that's why I had to spend a year-and-a-half in that damn Springfield, because like my mother was afraid that if she put me into a home where I had at least somebody there who was a woman and there's somebody there who was a man who could, you know, like be something like a mother and father, like she didn't want it, because she was afraid that - like she was afraid that I would go away. So she really didn't care about me, but it was like the same sick type of love that I had. It was like a possessive love, and like it can't be that way, and especially with a kid. 1:32:23.3
COUNSELOR: That way you didn't get anything.
PATIENT: Yeah. And then like I felt kind of drawn to her, because she was kind of like my mother, Mrs. Foley, but I don't know what happened. I really just don't know. Like all of a sudden like I just turned away from her, more or less. It was like - I can't really explain it. I don't know whether it was like one time she got mad at me and she said she hated me or what it was. You know, like it was just something that I had done as a mistake and then it just sort of built and built and built. 
Because at first, I did fine there; it was no problem the first six months or so, absolutely nothing, and then all of a sudden I just don't know what happened. I don't know whether I didn't feel like she loved me as much as maybe her sons or something or I was jealous of my brother or something, or what it was. Maybe it's because like my brother was more of a favorite than I was and at home I was the favorite or something. I don't know even what it was that started me on it, but I started becoming such an introvert for so long. 1:33:30.1
And then like at the other place I was like that, too. Like my one foster sister said I was so selfish. She said, "You're so self-centered." That's all she cares about is her. And like I realized that. I would tell her like, "Don't go upstairs, this is - you're a fool," which she was really, because she'd do like all sorts of things for these girls, and they'd turn around and talk behind her back like she was some... Well, she played around. She was a young girl. From the time she was 19, I guess she was pregnant, and five minutes after she had the first one she had the second one. 
I mean she was mixed up, really mixed up emotionally. It was like, you know, I got a guy who came along, choo (ph), you know. "I love you even." It wasn't just sex, but it was like "I love you, I really love you. I just met you; I love you," you know, because she had an insecurity about her father, too. 1:34:13.7
But you know, like in a way she sees a lot, and I realize that that's the way I was. Because like it was like I'm not going to do this, because as soon as I do something for them all they're going to do is turn around and they're going to knife me in the back and like hell with them. I'm not going to let them knife me in the back. I'm not going to do... This is the way I got after a while. 
First it was, again, I left myself open for them or I tried to, and it was like I'd like to talk to - not to my step mother, but like her daughter was like maybe 38 or something when I came to her and I was like 13. And I'm just going into being a teenager, so I started to talk about things to her, about my boyfriends and the whole bit, and I find out when I'm like 16 or 17 like everything I've said has gone back. I was out there a couple of times; they were talking about Yvonne (ph), just after she had fixed their hair. She used to do everything for those girls, you know, and they'd turn around and they'd talk bad about her. You know, I said to myself, "Is this the way somebody is supposed to be who really cares?" You know, like that's not caring about somebody. You can't be that way. You can't be nicey-nice (ph) in front of them and want them to do things for you and then turn around after they've done them, you know, and like knife them in the back. 1:35:28.3
And then you know like, Jesus, I used to go to the store for them all the time and all this other... I said to myself like "I'm not going to let them do that to me. I won't let them do that to me. I won't be hurt like that. You know, like they want to talk about me, the hell with them. Good, but they're not going to get anything from me." 
COUNSELOR: And that's the only way you had. You had all that hurt inside you and then you had to protect yourself.
PATIENT: Yeah. That happened when I'd get somebody who I could semi-trust with - like I didn't know I had all these hang-ups like with, you know, changing around from here to there. I didn't think it bothered me, and I never thought about my grandfather, I really didn't. It's just like pushed down; I just didn't want to think about it, because he was gone.
COUNSELOR: Of course it bothered you; it was a lot. You were just really little, a little girl. You didn't have anybody to care about it.
PATIENT: And he was like the only one. Like I mean I shouldn't say "never did." Like my mother showed me a picture of when we were at the beach. And I like said, "Oh, that was us." And I said, "Oh, is that North Dakota with Grandpa?" You know, I guess the first thing that came to my mind. But like it didn't really bother me, because like I guess partly because the only thing I remember right then was like the basic - like there was a happy time, and so like that was it; like I didn't go deep enough, because I didn't want to. I didn't want to say, like, you know, "I love my grandpa," and, you know, you wouldn't - again, she wouldn't let me go to him. And I think - I don't know. Maybe when I was having that daydream it wasn't Daddy I was running to, it might have been Grandpa. 1:36:54.3
COUNSELOR: You needed somebody, you know? You really needed somebody.
PATIENT: And he was there. And I always felt like he was - I guess I felt like he was there. Like we only saw him every year or something. We'd go up there for two weeks or a week and we'd go to see him, but he was just so, so good, you know? And it was just like what an image. Like who could even live up to him? I don't think my dad even lived up to the image I had of my grandfather. I don't know whether he really was that great, but like to me he was God, you know. 1:37:24.7
COUNSELOR: Yeah, right.
PATIENT: It was always grandpa this - I guess. I don't know, I feel like it was. I know my mother says I really thought a lot of my grandpa and that I really loved him a lot. She could tell. Like we were up there, we have fun and everything, but I don't know. It's just like when I got older it got so hard to show any kind of affection to anybody or any kind of real emotion or to feel it. You know, like I feel it coming up, and I think part of my problem, I think I actually push people away. It's like I don't want you to get close to me because I know you're going to leave me, and if I get to like you then you're going to hurt me and I don't want you to hurt me, you know. And it's like I'm really afraid. I'm afraid to let go.
Because when I let go - when we had that party I had a riot. You know, like (inaudible at 1:38:08.7) people and everything. Like one of the fellows had just met me. A friend of one of the instructors came up and grabbed me from the back of the - said, "Are you cute" or "Are you a doll" or something like this, and you know, it's just like, what, you know? Go away. 1:38:21.5
COUNSELOR: Yeah. Of course you're afraid to let go. There are too many years of hurt in there.
PATIENT: See, but that's it. It's really hard. It was actually hard. I had to sit myself down for about three days before and prepare myself. Now look, this is what you're going to do. I don't think I could have done it at that party otherwise. It took me like three days to convince myself that now you're going to just think about other people. You're not going to care about yourself. Just forget about yourself. Think about them, make sure that they're happy, and then just make sure everybody is dancing and nobody's left out, see.
COUNSELOR: And don't worry so much about people going away.
PATIENT: Yeah, and make sure... But see, the funny thing was is I sort of replaced it with a positive attitude, like say like "Don't worry about it," you know. "Take the initiative yourself. You see somebody sitting down and they don't have a drink or they're not dancing or whatever, you get them up and get them dancing. You do it. Don't be sitting back and say 'nobody wants me,' you know, like yet or whatever." And I found I really had fun. I could say at that party I really had fun. 1:39:18.1
But like it was like it was very hard to do and it shouldn't be hard to do. I mean that's silly. Why should it be hard to give? But it's hard for me, because I'm afraid that somebody is going to turn around and just walk away and say, "Lookey-lookey. You gave me all this. Now I'm going to take it and I'm going to walk away, you know." Or I feel like...
COUNSELOR: Well, you had good reason for that, but it's over now.
PATIENT: Yeah, see, that's the thing. The thing is to get over that, to say that, you know, like "All right, so that's the way it was, but it's not like that any more," you know. Like "There are people in the world that do love you."
COUNSELOR: Maybe you can open up and really trust people.
PATIENT: Yeah, but it's hard.
COUNSELOR: When are you going to begin to do that?
PATIENT: It's hard to say, because then - see, but then there's like guys - my life right now. You know, like I don't know about Seth. Like Seth's got a problem with his wife and I'm getting him to talk about it, like I tried to tell him, "Look, Seth, first of all, I like this other guy in the office; he's real nice. Will.
COUNSELOR: Listen, it's after 10:30. Do you have to go? 
PATIENT: Well, I don't know. Do you have to go?
COUNSELOR: I can stay with this for a while yet, if you want.
PATIENT: Okay. I'd like to work it wait (ph). I just feel like, oh, the hell with it, but I don't know. I just - I meet people like Maurie that in - and that's my boss, and he - I don't know. He's just - I used to think he was so nice because like he paid attention to me and everything, and it was like I think the attention that I wanted from my father, because he was an older man and he used to... You know, when he first started out it was things like he just touched my shoulder or he held my hand and he took my hand and he held it, and it was just so warm and nice, you know. 1:41:13.0
But like I was saying come on for that reason, not, I don't think, because I wanted to go to bed with him or anything like that. I thought at first this was, what? Because I figured, well, this is the normal thing; you know, like young girls usually like older men. Not quite that much older, but usually older men, and it's because of sexual attraction. But it wasn't really a sexual attraction; it was like maybe for an older man who is like a father. And I guess I just never - like my boss before that would never touch me at all, I mean never. He brushed my hand one time and you know, he's "Oh, pardon me," you know, and I think I really wanted him to, because like he was very sophisticated and he looked like Robert Redford. You know, he's really good looking; he's about maybe 47, 48, with the whole bit, you know.
COUNSELOR: For all those things that happened to you left you needing someone to protect you and being into that rather than really seeing the person for what he was with you.
PATIENT: Yeah, right. It was like making a world that I wanted to be there. You know, it was like saying, "Now this is this and I'm glad," you know, and then not really looking and seeing. 1:42:19.5
Because like when I see now... The other day he made a comment. You know, he saw me and he was - he tried to put his hand like this, and I looked at him like that and tried to push his hand away, and he kind of looked like he didn't know what was going on, because like "Are you starting this now, are you just breaking it away? Forget it, I don't need you and I don't want you." I mean I just looked. Finally I just sat myself down and I said, "Now you will look at him and that's it, and I want you to see him the way he really is," and I saw everything he said was selfish, selfish, selfish. All he cared about was him, and I realized it. 
And he said something about it, heck, he was going to say something, was something like a joke, something about people in the office. He said, "You know there's only one person in the office I care about," and he looks at me, and he expected me to smile and was going to say himself, but I fooled him. I said, "You, and I know it." And he just went... "Well, now, if you want a ride home tonight..." Because I was working at the other place. He said, "If you want a ride home tonight, just call me," and I didn't call him. 1:43:11.7
COUNSELOR: But you had been wanting him only because you needed someone to protect you.
PATIENT: Yeah, partly that, and I needed something that was like - yeah, partly that. It was like a projection. Because he said like he was the one that saved me from being fired. I think he's full of bull, too, but like I believed him. I wanted to believe him, see. Logically I'm a good secretary. I'm not a great secretary, but I'm a good secretary. And you know, I've got a good working rapport with people, and like that's something that most secretaries don't have. Like every client that comes in compliments them on me, not because, you know - not because of looks or anything like that, but because I know how to handle people, you know, and they like that. 1:43:51.4
But you know, like I said, "Oh my God, Maurie, your name is the second to the least and I should have been the one to go, you know, and my girlfriend says, "Don't be such a baloney. Don't baloney yourself like that," because she knows Jewish men. She says, "That's all he wanted. He wanted to set you up and then take advantage of you." 
And again, like I said, this made me feel badly, because like I felt like he would have done that to any girl. Any young girl he had working for him he would have taken advantage of, and he just kind of bugged me. Because like that's just putting me in a category like with you and a hundred thousand other people, you know. Like if it was something like I was a great challenge even to him, because I was different or I was something, whatever, that he saw something in me that like I was a challenge, but I don't think it is. The only reason I'm a challenge is because I say no. 1:44:41.7 
You know, if I would have said yes, you know, he would have done whatever he wanted to do. And it just kind of bugged me, because then again I felt like - it's just like I'm one of the crowd and like who the heck cares, you know? 
And it's just an awful feeling to feel like - you know, I was like - I find myself singing that song, Ticky Tacky People, an awful lot, and it's like I really don't want to be one. I don't want to be like everybody else, I want to be me; that somebody or some people might say, like, she's different. You know, she's nice, but she's - I don't care if they say I'm different or I'm crazy or I'm goofy or whatever, but like I don't want to be like what they call Josephine Average. You know, like everything is exactly - yes, everything is exactly the same as everybody else. Like I don't want that, and maybe it's because I want to be special to a couple of people or one person, too, and I feel like if you're Josephine Average and you do everything the same as everybody else and you don't - and that's it, like who are you going to be special to? 1:45:51.6
COUNSELOR: Yes. There are two things: You want to be special for the people who notice you, and you also want that for you.
PATIENT: Yes, I think that's true. I want to be able to say something like - I say to myself, "Who's out there?" I don't know who she is. She's some typical - well, I shouldn't say typical, no. Just from my background I'm not really what you call typical, but you know, like maybe starting out lower, middle class and maybe ending up middle class. Wow. Like, boy, I really went places, didn't I? And I just don't feel like I've done anything. I know it's because like, see, I like to get too much at once, partly. 1:46:34.1
COUNSELOR: Um-hmm.
PATIENT: It's just like, see, I feel maybe because I felt like I never had anything at all. Like I just felt like nobody cared, nobody wanted me...
COUNSELOR: And so you have to really push yourself now.
PATIENT: Yeah. And now I have to do all this myself because like nobody cares. So the only way to do it... And then I say to myself, you know, sometimes they're (ph) so stupid, because if you start caring more about other people, like our drill instructor is getting a friend of his own the apartments in Toyko. They're going to get an apartment for my girlfriend when they go there. And you know, like it is things like if you're more concerned with other people, like lots of times it makes your life easier, because they help you out. But see, I'm always afraid that they're not going to do it, because like I've done that before. I've been real nice and what happens? Choom (ph), somebody turns around and just stabs you in the back, and so what do you do, you know? You don't know, like, how far to go or what to do.
COUNSELOR: Yeah. I think we'd better stop. 1:47:26.2 
PATIENT: Me, too, what's left of me. Better try to get to the train and get back to work. Now I understand what my girlfriend means, anyway. Thank you.
COUNSELOR: Okay.
PATIENT: [She didn't even] (ph) fogged off my glasses. I'll see you next week.
COUNSELOR: Okay. 1:48:27.8 
END TRANSCRIPT
