Transcript of Audio File:
______________________________________________________________________________
BEGIN TRANSCRIPT:
CLIENT: (long sigh) Oh boy. So the house is, the condo has been listed. We received an offer and it's from the cousin of the guy, the cousin of the wife who owns the unit next door. They're in Unit 10, we're in Unit 20. And he's actually been bothering me for a few months, you know, to buy it. And I just didn't want to deal with it, you know. So I waited 'till Claire listed it and let her deal with it.
THERAPIST: Right.
CLIENT: So he puts in the offer at asking price.
THERAPIST: Great.
CLIENT: And I put in what I thought was a very simple provision was that the deal was subject to short sale approval letter, Claire wants, we want the short sale to be approved, which is acceptable to me. I don't want them coming in and saying, "Okay, we'll approve this short sale but you have to bring $5,000 to the table." I don't want a provision like that to be thrown at me, which they sometimes do.
THERAPIST: I see.
CLIENT: So they, ... Mike is the guy who owns Unit 10, he's a big accountant with (inaudible at 00:01:45). His wife, she's very...
THERAPIST: Is that a CFO, or something else?
CLIENT: No. No. Not at all. His wife Cassie, very smart. I like them a lot, but she's not a CFO either, and neither is her cousin Jerry the vet, who refuses to hire a real estate lawyer. And part of the problem was that even though I went through the deal with Claire on a short sale, she forgot how to process. And they came back with some language that basically said that within 10 days of the offer if we don't get a short sale, that they can back out. And it doesn't work like that because you can't even submit it to the lender until you have a purchasing sale agreement. (sighs) [00:02:47]
So Claire kind of screwed up a little bit, but I don't think it makes a whole lot of difference. And so that's kind of all up in the air right now, which is more stress than I really wanted it to be.
THERAPIST: Yeah.
CLIENT: I got very upset with Jess because, I can't remember exactly. We had just been e-mailing, Claire and I, back and forth. And Jess's like, "Well call Claire." I said, " I haven't heard back from Claire, I can't remember what the topic was. She was like, "Call Claire." I hadn't talked to Claire in a long time, in months, didn't feel at the moment, didn't want to get on the phone and chat with Claire. Because I knew it wasn't going to answer my question. So I said, "No, I'll wait 'till she responds by e-mail." And Jess was like, "I don't know why you have a problem calling people or using the phone." I hadn't called the vet, so here was another instance, and she just throws it back in my face. And I said to her, maybe she's forgotten but I said to her before in therapy, couples therapy, that there are just things that I don't want to do. And I don't know why I don't want to do them, I just don't want to do them. I didn't want to call her. I just didn't want to pick up the phone and call her. [00:04:34]
So I'm still kind of... This was Wednesday maybe, I'm trying to think, Wednesday. I don't know. I'm still kind of ticked about it and thinking about the whole thing, and I want to ask Jess, I kind of want to go with a take it or leave it. Take my language... And what I did was, I softened the language by saying, "Seller acceptance... Seller will not withhold acceptance unreasonably." Whatever is said in the moment.
THERAPIST: Yeah.
CLIENT: And it's used in all kinds of contexts where you have to get approval by like the trustee board or the condo board or whatever. And basically there has to be cause for not accepting, for not approving. So I added that language. That's when they added their long paragraph or whatever. So I said to Jess... At first Claire called and so we had multiple conversations, and I said, "I'm at the point where I just want to say take it or leave it." And I said the same thing to Jess, take it or leave it. And she was like, "Why don't you e-mail Mike?" The guy from Unit 1. One more thing I don't want to... So Claire is like, "Don't e-mail Mike, let me e-mail them." And she did a long e-mail and I just read it quickly and said, "Yes send it off. Fine." And there were a couple of things that after contemplating I thought maybe should have been included, which will ultimately probably be in my e-mail to Mike. But the more I think about it, I'm not really excited about selling the condo right away. There's been multiple showings, but this is the only offer that's come in and basically I'm not going to have the 1,500 bucks coming in to pay my rent where I live now, when we sell the condo. So I'm going to be out of a place to live, or at least I'm going to have to come up with some other means to pay for it or move to someplace cheaper, which I'm not going to be able to find a place that much cheaper unless I move to some shit-hole one room apartment. A studio or a one bedroom. [00:07:23]
You know, to stay close to the kids and to stay in Andover and Plymouth, in the same neighborhood I'm willing to do that, but even then I still will be struggling to come up with that money right now. So I'm even more hardened in my position to take it or leave it, because if they don't want to do it the way I want to do it they can just forget it. I want that language in there. And they just refuse to hire an attorney. I mean this guy is a... Mike's down in Texas. I'm like, "Why doesn't Mike just go up the two flights of stairs and ask someone at the real estate department?" They just don't understand the process.
THERAPIST: Right.
CLIENT: They think that that provision is going to allow me to back out at any time. And it's not like that. We want to fucking sell the... Their worried if we get a better offer we'll... Better offer? Who cares? We're not getting any money out of it. It doesn't make sense. You know. So at some point I'm going to have to write a letter to Mike and talk him into it, which I'm not really excited about doing. It's still going to take a few months anyways, but...[00:08:44]
THERAPIST: And you'll get no money out of it, or 2,000 bucks out of it, or...?
CLIENT: Well we got a letter from the bank saying that they'll give us $3,500, which basically I would want to use to help me move.
THERAPIST: You mean like you're getting to move out the place?
CLIENT: Yeah. That would buy me two more months, but I'm two months behind on the rent now. I can barely afford a coffee, my tank is on empty. I've already gotten a little bit of a spat with Jess over, you know, money that I paid money last month to cover her expenses. Because she wants me to contribute money toward the kids. I was "I paid your expenses last month", I said. And I came up with the $1,200 number and she was... I left money in there for $500 of it which she may have. So there's still $600, $700 that I came up with for her. And she's going to get $5,000 for her bills on Monday. [00:10:00]
And then she's agreed to help out because I've got about $300 in the business account and I need 850 to cover health insurance. So we've got to put that together. But it still leaves me with no money. My car's on empty. I just put 20 bucks in there on Tuesday, that's gone already and, you know, Jess doesn't know. I haven't told her how fucked I am as far as being 2 months behind. I've got to get the dog, deal with the dog. I've got my car. I got a $50 ticket for not being inspected that I can't pay. [00:11:02]
My dad's coming to town next Thursday, which he'll buy me dinner and maybe give me a couple hundred dollars out the door. I wanted to wait until he got into town to talk to him about borrowing money, but I think I'm going to have to send him an e-mail today or this weekend. I'm having lunch today with Claire.
THERAPIST: Today (inaudible at 00:11:30).
CLIENT: Yeah. And it's funny, I'm contemplating, I'm like, "Should I put a suit on just to have lunch with Claire?" So I got nothing else going on today. And I'm not going, I'm just going to put on slacks and a shirt. I'm going to go with the (inaudible at 00:11:50) team look, you know. And so I kind of wanted to wait and talk to her and see where she was as far as business and sending me business. And I don't know why I think that's going to change anything, but you know... I don't know. The money thing's killing me because Jess's going to get a hunk of money on Monday and what I'm going to try and do is get her to pay the entire insurance and that will give me like 100 or $200 to get through. But I drive so much, and it takes like 40, 45 bucks a tank. I go through that in a week, less than a week, you know.
THERAPIST: Yeah. [00:12:53]
CLIENT: And I don't know if I should send the e-mail to my mom as well who, you know, she's got money tied up. She's got the house and she's got a nice 401K with like $400,000 but it's not like she has a lot of spending money. She does, but she...[00:13:20]
I know there's a little bit of money left in the life insurance policy and I don't know if my stepmom would still be willing to give me the money that she had lent me before that we paid back with the insurance policy money. But you know, I was kind of thinking that we would need that money if we had to do a repayment plan so that that... we're still 30,000 grand going on 35,000 grand in the hole. And it's like we probably still have another two weeks before we hear about that. Two, three weeks maybe longer, I don't know. And um... (pause) [00:14:08]
Jess gives me this — how she's worried about how I'm going to move and she's got to know where to move to and it's like, she's got $10,000 to move. She can find a place, no problem and live off that money. Plus she has the ability to pull in five grand a month, you know.
THERAPIST: Yeah.
CLIENT: That's what her ability is. Things have picked... You know, I got another title order. I'm going to have another one, so maybe I'll have three closings in March. Maybe I won't. I got another title examination, so there's another $175. There are some old invoices. There's a little bit of money, but it's nowhere near what I need. I feel like I'm in a position that I've got be so short of money that I've got to go begging to, you know...
THERAPIST: Do you mean Jess and your parents? [00:15:24]
CLIENT: Yeah. And it's like I'm more comfortable with my parents, but you know... Jess is so fucking fixated on the kids and everything for the fucking kids, that I don't matter. She can go and get her fucking car fixed, you know. She's pulling money out to hire a lawyer, which was her idea, to take care of our tax problems which I still have all the fucking forms. And the only difference is that we've got a mouthpiece at the IRS. I've been talking to the IRS and (inaudible at 00:16:16), so you're always a little better when you have a lawyer. [00:16:24] (pause)
But I've got to kind of write the same e-mail to her that I've got to write to my parents because, I mean, I need help. And it's like I'm stressed out so much that like last night I went through an entire thing of deli meat. I don't know if you've seen the little plastic container things, you know, they're like those little disposable Glad. They have those with deli meats in them. And I ate the whole thing. Just too fucking stressed out.
THERAPIST: Yeah.
CLIENT: So it's like I have no food, I have no money. I have at this point, no expectation of any money coming in within at least a week. I'm assuming that some of the closing, some of the titles that I did are going to close within the next few days or the beginning of next week, end of the month. So I may get a check or two. I may get three. But I don't know. I have no idea. (long pause) [00:18:01]
The tone of the e-mail... I had sent an e-mail and I don't know if my tone was bad, but she sent this long e-mail back to me and then said, "Yeah, I'll cover the health insurance." It's like, "Great. You're paid for. My dentist appointment from Wednesday will be paid for, I don't have to worry about that."
THERAPIST: Right. Still nothing you can eat.
CLIENT: (pause) One of the e-mails I read last year between Jess and Claire, Claire says that she always pays for meals, which...
THERAPIST: You mean like when the two of you...
CLIENT: Or any type of... I wondered about that.
THERAPIST: That may not be true?
CLIENT: She even mentioned, you know, "Ask Cameron." Mentioned me as a parenthetical. And I thought we were on every other. So it's been several lunches. I've always wanted to go back and check and see if — so maybe she'll buy lunch today. But not really in the mood to have lunch with her. Just... (sigh) We're losing another member in E&G; to the fucking caterer, which is good and bad. She's kind of a stubborn person and has twice not brought lunch because of butting heads with the treasurer. And he's worthless, but she's just a very stubborn person. And the one person who has always been able to talk to her and set her straight is Ray, who's down in fucking Tennessee. So she's not renewing, but she's still willing to bring us lunch for 8 bucks a head. $10 if we want coffee. And so we at least, it's not like she's going to leave and we're... That gives us the... Now we've got to look at the option of maybe not having lunch, bring your own lunch. I think as a group I knew that they all bring their all lunch, which makes it cheaper.
THERAPIST: Right.
CLIENT: You can bring a sandwich from home, go get a sub roll or whatever. I don't have to deal with that. There's this new restaurant that actually was the place where we first started having meetings, like nine years ago. And this is like the fourth restaurant since then that's been in that spot, and they're willing to offer us the room for free, assuming then that they believe we'll probably need lunch. And I'm hesitant because, you know, how long is this restaurant going to last? A year? Two years? Because of the history of the place. (sigh) (pause)
And then I don't know, I still have the fucking dog I have to worry about. I got my car, every time I drive by a cop I'm wondering whether he's getting my tag and he's going to send me a ticket, you know. Pull me over, you know. Just ... (pause) [00:22:21]
I spend most of the week with Ian. And Monday I went out and Lucille wasn't home. I had nothing to do. I went and did some work yesterday. I got a title order from the bank from people I'd, must have been a closing attorney and their attorney when they bought the house in 2008. So they probably went ahead and told the bank, probably said, "Do you have your own attorney?" Or, "It's cheaper if you use the same attorney." Or whatever. I put my same fee I had 2008, 675 instead of 750. On the good-for-investment they really low-balled what my fee would be. On a $400,000 loan I should be making a thousand bucks. So I made damn sure that I make the thousand bucks. The woman's a lawyer, so I mean...
And then there's another deal that I think that I... The CPA referred to the new mortgage guy, but I think I did her the last time. It's an FHA streamline so it'll go quickly. But um, other than that there's not much out there. [00:24:12]
I've got one buyer looking for a house. (pause) I got a... Next Wednesday there's a Chamber of Coffee connection which I've got to force myself to go to, so I've got to start looking.
THERAPIST: Are you able to think about, sort of I don't know, medium to long-term strategies for making things better? [00:25:05]
CLIENT: Well that's what I'm saying is I got to start going to Chamber events, and I got to start going, join a Rotary. Concord, there's bank presidents but there's also like five lawyers groups. Bristol is a little more low key, but there are still some banks that...
THERAPIST: So you are making... That's what I was wondering is if you're so worried, stressed out and ashamed about how things are that it's hard to even have the space to think about what to do. But it sounds like you can.
CLIENT: It's more of just instinct. It's like it's frustrating because I know these things aren't going to help me in the short term. And they're not going to help me even in the medium term. So I can't really look beyond March. To think, "Oh, April will be better." I can't do that. I'm really thinking week to week now, just on the money. And um, I'm thinking I'm just going to pull $100 out of the business account and have Jess, and tell her that things will be better for me hopefully. You know...
THERAPIST: There's that kind of quality that you're talking about that sounds like, and understandably, you're so scared and just so focused on what's right in front of you and what's you're going to have to pay and not knowing where it's going to come from, and how you're going to get it. And feeling bad about the alternatives. Thinking about some good things as well, but it has this quality where it's like you're... It's hard to take a breath and sort of step back and think about what's to be done. Does that make sense? [00:27:34]
CLIENT: Yeah. That's what Jess said to me. She's like, "You know, you're going to have to do something." And that's one of the reasons I don't want to go to her for money, is because the last time it came up she was like, "You're going to need to do something." And I don't know what there is I can do that doesn't involve... Unless I go and try and get a job, which there are no jobs for CPAs out there. And I'd have to take like some night shift, doing something; security guard, coffee shop, who knows? Basically fucking kill myself to get just a little, like how much extra money is that going to be, you know? My options are minimum wage, which I don't even know if they'd hire me. "Well what's your employment history?" "I work for myself." "What do you do?" "Some taxes." (chuckle) Starbucks is not going to hire a CPA to fucking pour coffee. They're not going to invest in training me. (long pause) [00:29:13]
I just have to stick with E&G; and try to do more one-to-ones. The problem is, is it's like — it used to be part of my networking was getting business from Jess. But that doesn't do me any good anymore, you know? Fucking way behind on the website, paying them down. They're calling. Their accounts receivables are calling me, got the first phone call for that. [00:30:09] (pause)
Just I'm in a huge hole. It's like, "Don't worry, go through bankruptcy and this huge weight will be lifted from you." And it hasn't.
THERAPIST: No. Not directly.
CLIENT: It's like... My only contact is some young kid who doesn't have the, you know, the experience or just the time in the business that gets you multiple closings a month. I mean, he's been getting some business through E&G; and they've sent me some loans that weren't E&amp;G.; His boss, I think, is sending me a couple. But um, there's nowhere else. I'm on the community advisory committee or whatever for now United, which may give me an opportunity to have someone. Now I might be able to get a little more closings. But I'm bad at that stuff. I could go over to Patricia at Eastern Bank and move all my accounts over there in the middle of all this financial bullshit and maybe get some closings with them, I don't know. Maybe I'll see her at the coffee thing on Wednesday morning, you know. Probably will. [00:32:09]
(pause)
Jess has totally boxed me out, and totally has set up her life without me as a plan in it. Not even a thought to reconciliation or anything like that, you know. That's my take because she's always talking about how she needs to make enough money for her and the kids. And she is. She's paying all the money to raise the kids, that's why I really can't expect her to give me any money, you know. But if we got divorced, the judge is going to look at me and say, "You can't afford any child support. The guidelines are based on your income." She'd get $17 a week, $20 a week, $50 a week. She's not going to get anything — the 5 or $600 a month she wants. At least not based on my current, the recent history. [00:33:36]
(pause)
I'm still fucking, maybe I'm just stupid but I'm worried about losing the football tickets. That's the end of March that that money's due. Jess doesn't know that I put money for the baseball tickets. She doesn't know that I've given money for the farm. I've started to kind of commit myself to eat better. At least when I gorged down on all that ham last night it wasn't...It was like thin deli slices, maybe like 250 calories it is not a lot. I'm going to try to eat salads. And I did have the meat. We had sandwich bar at E&G;, I didn't eat the meat and I kind of stuck to the, more of just the vegetables and cheese, and... [00:35:08]
I made one sandwich and then I went back up and just got some some fixings and I didn't eat a whole bunch. I, already in my pants, I'm losing weight. Good because I can't afford to eat, you know. After I had my teeth cleaned at the dentist on Wednesday, I went and got breakfast at Burger King, just fucking had to. I don't know. I just had to. (long pause) [00:36:04]
(sniffs) I'm not even sure where the $1,500 went for the December rent. 500 went to the car. I don't know where the other 1,000. $200 to the farm, but still $800 I don't know where all this money went. Where it went. I don't know if I put it into the firm. I took $1,500 and put it into the (inaudible at 00:37:47) account so now there's at least a positive balance in QuickBooks. So that's kind of one lesser worry, but still you know, just ... (sighs)
Got back to the office after E&G; yesterday and it's like I was just ready to leave and blow off work. I had to force myself to do some work. There's nothing. There's just nothing there. (sniffs) (pause)
THERAPIST: It really, doesn't feel like there's a whole lot you can do that's going to make much of a difference. [00:39:00]
CLIENT: Just beg my dad, you know. (long pause) (sighs) [00:40:17]
Ian has been sick all week. So it's really... I mean we haven't even done anything. We went to the play space and he just wanted his mom to come. I don't even think that the play space is that great, it's more for little kids, little babies and toddlers and there's not much there for him. He's been going to music camp from 11 to 12, 12:30 and I took him the other day. I killed my battery on Tuesday. Jess had to come jump the car. Just... It's like one peril after another, you know. And it was nice weather. We could have gone outside and done stuff, but he was sick. He's still sick. Jess last night was ready to take him to the doctor. I don't know what the kid has, but it's like a cold. It's not getting any better. (long pause) [00:41:42]
THERAPIST: (inaudible at 00:42:07)
CLIENT: (long sigh)
END TRANSCRIPT
