<font size="4"><b>I: Soldier's Reward</b></font>

THE BURLY ATTENDANT unlocked the barred door. I walked
in. The iron door clanged shut. Reaching through the bars, he
removed a pencil from my pocket.


"You might hurt yourself," he said.


Going to my room, I stretched out on the bed, staring through
the barred window at a prison-type fence. The small room seemed
to close in on me. Without my uniform or a single item of personal
property, I felt naked and stripped of all identity. Surely
Captain Thomas Wilkes could not be confined in a mental ward.


It seemed that I was observing some other man. He looked to
be in his early thirties, although the record indicated forty. Of
medium build, except for slender hands and flat feet, he might
have been an athlete. Jet black hair swept back from a high forehead.
The eyes were small and piercing, the nose slightly too large,
the lips full and whimsical. His mobile features and quick movements
indicated alertness; the bulldog jaw, determination. There
was a confidence—a sureness—in his every movement; something
in his manner and appearance that demanded respect. He might
have been devil or saint, faithful husband or gay Lothario, poetic
dreamer or prize fighter, promoter or engineer, fun-loving civilian
or officer of Combat Engineers.


<i>Now I am only a mental ward inmate</i>, I thought, as the psychiatrist
entered the room. I was exasperated, afraid and mad as hell;
my mouth dry with a bitter hatred for those responsible for my
confinement.


I sprang to my feet. "Colonel Dowell, I protest such treatment.
I am not subject to military jurisdiction, as my orders relieved me
from active duty. Then you know damn well there's nothing wrong
with my mind."

[p. <i>2</i>]

Lieutenant Colonel Raymond F. Dowell was Chief of the NP
<a href="javascript: __showhidenote('_note_1899');">[note]</a><div id="_note_1899" style="display:none;background-color:#FFDD99;margin:0px;border:2px solid #800000; padding:2px;">* Neuropsychiatric—See Appendix for definition.</div>
Section of Swift Regional Army Hospital. "I'm only carrying out
orders of the CO," he stated.


"Then tell Colonel Brown I've learned my lesson," I pleaded.
"I'll forget the whole affair if he'll only let me out."


"You've gone a little too far for that," he said with finality,
"telling your wife to phone the War Department Inspector General.
Now you're just another bother to me, and I've got enough
trouble with that patient up front."


A huge man was violently shaking the barred door. "Lemme
outa here!" he bellowed, above the clang of iron on iron. "I gotta
go to Washington! Teddy Roosevelt told me to go straighten out
Congress."


Giving the door a final shake that rattled the window panes, he
shuffled down the corridor. Stopping at my door, he swayed from
side to side; his mouth wide open and eyes mere slits.


The psychiatrist walked away leaving me to deal with this
violently insane man.


<i>Perhaps he will respond to normal treatment</i>, I thought. Determined
to show no fear, I spoke casually, "Hello, buddy. Come
on in."


The man lumbered forward, leered at me, then sat down on
the bed. Slowly, to my amazement, he assumed a sane appearance,
giving me a knowing wink.


With a sigh of relief I gasped, "Fellow, you had me scared."


He laughed. "How'd you know?"


"I didn't," I admitted. "You're damned good. What's it all
about?"


Motioning for me to follow, he walked out the rear door into
a fenced-in area, stopping in a shady spot some distance from the
other inmates. "'Fraid somebody might hear us," he explained.
"I'm Folsom."


"I'm Captain Wilkes," I said. "Have a smoke, and tell me about
it."


"I was In the hospital with flu, when I decided to get outa the
Army by playing crazy," Folsom said, lighting our cigarettes from

[p. <i>3</i>]

"I'm not quite sure," I replied. "They retired me three days ago,
then placed me under arrest today as I was leaving for home."


"Now I've seen everything!" Folsom declared. "Captain, you're
in one hell of a jam! You sleep with one eye open and don't trust
nobody. Things happen in these psycho wards."


"Thanks for the tip," I said. "One other thing. Frankly, I'm
afraid of being confined with insane men. Are any of these soldiers
dangerous?"


"Naw," Folsom assured me. "There's two niggers and sixteen
white soldiers. Four have got some queer ideas; just sit around by
themselves. Then, there's a few liquor-heads. The rest are good
guys, and nothing wrong with 'em."


"That takes care of one of my worries," I said, "Now I'd best
get back, as I'm expecting my wife."


Returning to my room, I tried to find the answer to Folsom's
question about my confinement. First, was it possible that I was
mentally ill? I reasoned that mental illness is evidenced by extreme
departure from the individual's normal in act, word or
thought. But I had neither done nor said anything abnormal, and
my mind was functioning as usual.


Then why was I in this mental ward? What kind of medical
officers would think a sane man was insane; or knowing he was
sane, charge him with insanity? The events preceding my arrest
explain the men and their motives.


The Disposition Board of Barkeley Regional Hospital recommended
my retirement, but this hospital was deactivated before
the Retiring Board had considered my case.

[p. <i>4</i>]

With some thirty other officer patients I was then transferred to
Swift Regional Hospital.


At Barkeley we had received excellent medical care and every
reasonable privilege. Being ambulatory patients, we could go anywhere
on the Post or in the nearby town of Abilene, when we had
no scheduled appointments at the hospital.


At Swift, all such privileges were arbitrarily withheld. We were
subjected to numerous petty rules, our uniforms were locked up
and we were permitted to leave the hospital only on week-ends.


The many inefficiencies and irregularities of the hospital were
common knowledge in the nearby town of Bastrop and in Austin.
Medical care was neglected; emphasis being placed on that dubious
fringe of medicine called psychiatry.


Colonel Aubrey K. Brown, the hospital CO, was an ill-tempered
man who demanded subservience. Having been in command since
the hospital's activation, he had staffed it with a motley group of
medical officers; many being incompetent and of questionable integrity.


Our Ward Surgeon, Major John J. Christian, had reported to
Colonel Brown from internship. "I know how to get along with
the CO," he told me. "I do my paper work, see that the ward is
spotless and that none of the rules are broken. That's what the
Colonel wants. I came here a first lieutenant, served as Registrar
twenty months, got two promotions and now have two of the best
medical wards."


My relations with Major Christian were the best until he refused
me a week-end pass.


"It would look bad for the hospital," he argued, "seeing one of
our patients in Austin on crutches. You can't have a pass until you
can walk without even a cane."


My records showed that I had a slipped spinal disc, ulcer of the
duodenum and kidney stones. Yet, when I questioned his decision,
Major Christian threatened to send me back to duty.


"There's nothing wrong with you," he told me. "It's my frank
opinion that you're pretending—that you're just neurotic."


When I argued further, he sent me for an interview with a

[p. <i>5</i>]

Certainly my disabilities rendered me unfit for further military
service. And what if I was temporarily neurotic? Any illness makes
a man neurotic; even a headache.


The war with Germany having terminated, I was anxious to
return home for the construction boom that would follow. And,
after three years service and four months in hospitals, I was fed
up with the Army and its medical treatment.


Fully aware of the danger of "bucking" Colonel Brown's hospital,
I determined to force my immediate retirement. Enclosing
a letter from my Barkeley Ward Surgeon and the diagnosis of a
civilian diagnostician, I wrote the CO, asking that my case be
considered by the Retiring Board the following Monday.


Colonel Brown replied that he was assigning to my case "all
the additional Medical Consultants on the Medical Service and, if
deemed advisable, part of those on the Surgical Service," but that
I could not appear before the Board until my case was "finished."


Then began an almost continuous series of exhaustive interviews
and examinations. For two full days I was interviewed and
examined, examined and interviewed; however, no further X-rays
were made of my back or stomach.


Saturday morning I requested to see the CO at once, stating
that I was fed up with needless interviews and examinations.


Major Christian was immediately relieved as Ward Surgeon,
Major Bergein M. Overholt taking over his duties.


The chief of Medical Services, Lieutenant Colonel William R.
Hallaran, came to the ward within thirty minutes. Apologizing,
he said I would appear before a specially-called Disposition Board
within the hour, and the Retiring Board Monday, and would be
retired on the basis of the Barkeley diagnoses.


The Retiring Board is the highest Army medical board, being
comparable in importance, dignity and procedure to General
Court-martial. I was therefore surprised to find this a closed hearing,
with spectators barred.


Nothing was offered to support the ulcer diagnosis and the
other illnesses were not mentioned. However, the medical witness,

[p. <i>6</i>]

In preparing my records for consideration by the Board, Major
Christian omitted kidney stones and back injury, substituting as
diagnosis number one: "Anxiety state; patient showed predisposition
in civilian life by recurrent periods of anxiety, inadequate
physical and psychical reserve; precipitated in service by the external
stress thereof."


I protested "anxiety state" as being a deliberate defamation that
could serve no good purpose in a medical hearing; and in my
sworn statement I explained the origin of this diagnosis.


In the papers for consideration by the Board, Major Christian
alleged: "He showed no neuropsychiatric manifestations except insomnia;
however, after informing the patient that no evidence of
ulcer had been found by X-ray examinations here, he showed a
return of his anxiety manifestations by questioning the professional
integrity of staff members who had examined him, a disregard for
hospital regulations and for common military courtesy."


After a hearing that was entirely lacking in dignity and procedure,
the Board approved my discharge, with anxiety state as
diagnosis number one.


Angry and outraged, I determined to proceed directly to Washington
and prefer court-martial charges against the medical officers
responsible. In addition to my case, I had evidence of ten
other cases that were highly irregular as to medical or surgical
treatment or discharge.


Tuesday noon a nurse stopped me in one of the corridors. "Now
what have you done?" she asked. "Did they ever find you?"


"Hello," I called, laughing. "I ain't done nothing! Who's looking
for me; and why?"


"The Executive Officer," she replied. "You've been paged all
morning over the PA system. You're in bad enough about forcing
your retirement. Now you're reported as AWOL."


"That's a good one on Major LaCombe," I said. "I was in the
one building that has no loud-speaker and was there on his orders."

[p. <i>7</i>]

"Captain," she said, "it's no joking matter. The CO is furious!
He flies off the handle at the mere mention of your name."


Leaving the nurse, I hurried to Major LaCombe's office. "Sir,"
I said, "I regret causing so much trouble this morning. I was attending
the Adjutant's lecture, as ordered, in the only building that
doesn't have a loud-speaker."


Major James L. LaCombe was Hospital Executive Officer and
Retiring Board Recorder. "Who told you to go there?" he demanded.


"You did, sir," I replied.


Colonel Brown rushed in from his adjoining office, his face
aflame with anger. "You stand at attention in the presence of your
superior officer!" he exploded.


Making no further reference to the PA episode, Major LaCombe
said I could get my copy of the proceedings Thursday afternoon.


Wednesday I received orders relieving me from active duty and
signed out of the hospital.


Then, Thursday morning, when I returned to have my ears
washed out and my glasses frames straightened, I was stopped by
a sergeant. The Adjutant approached as the sergeant announced
that I was under arrest.


"Captain," I protested, "the sergeant says I'm under arrest for
trespassing. An officer may visit a hospital at any time. Furthermore,
an officer is not arrested for breaking some minor rule. This
thing is outrageous!"


While I waited with the Adjutant, the Post CO and the Post
Inspector General conferred with Colonel Brown, confirming my
contention that my arrest was illegal.


I ate lunch, then went to Major LaCombe's office for my copy
of the proceedings.


Making no reference to my previous arrest, he said, "The proceedings
are not completed, but your copy will be ready at 1630
hours."


Major LaCombe sat behind a desk that was littered with papers
—a worried and uncertain officer. The papers were the proceedings,
and he nervously pushed them about as he talked. His puzzled

[p. <i>8</i>]

Major LaCombe's actions, together with the unusual delay, convinced
me that the proceedings were being altered to conceal the
true nature of the hearing.


"Sir," I said, "my car is packed and my wife waiting at the Guest
House. Please mail them to me. Or, if you prefer, I'll get my copy
from the War Department."


The Post Inspector General entered from the CO's office. "Do
you have any complaints to make?" he demanded. His duties were
to accept and investigate charges; however, in searching me out to
ask for complaints, he was exceeding the prerogatives of his office.


"Sir, I have no complaints to make to you," I replied. "My arrest
of this morning has already delayed my departure. So, if you
will excuse me, I'll be on my way."


As nothing further was said, I walked to the parking lot, where
I was stopped by the Adjutant and two military police.


"Captain Wilkes," the Adjutant announced, "consider yourself
under arrest by orders of the Commanding Officer."


"What's the charge this time?" I asked. "This is getting tiresome."


"Disrespect to the Post IG," he replied.


Returning with the Adjutant, I approached the CO, who was
flanked by eight of his staff, the Chief Psychiatrist and the Post IG.
"Sir, I was not disrespectful to the IG. Had I been, this would not
warrant an officer's arrest." I handed him a copy of my orders.
"These orders say I'm out of the Army. As a retired officer I'm not
subject to military jurisdiction."


The CO studied the orders, anger drained from his face and
doubt took over. He turned inquiringly to the IG.


The IG shrugged his shoulders.


Turning to me, the CO announced, "The arrest is removed."


"Sir, then I'll proceed home." Giving a snappy salute, I strode
down the corridor and out of the hospital.


"Arrest him again!" the CO shouted.


Turning, I walked back to meet the two military police who
were coming after me. Then, walking ahead of them, I entered
the hospital and approached the CO.

[p. <i>9</i>]

The CO turned to the psychiatrist. "You take over! You know
what to do!"


Having heard of bizarre happenings behind the barred doors
of mental wards, I feared for my safety unless I could talk with my
wife at once. "Sir, my wife's waiting at the Guest House, thinking
we're going home. I request permission to phone her."


Colonel Brown looked at the other officers, then at me. "Use
that phone," he said.


Camille's voice was never more welcome.


"Camille," I said, "listen carefully. I'm all right and you're not
to worry. I've been placed under arrest again; and the CO has
ordered me to the mental ward. I want you to phone Number One.
Do you understand?"


"Who is Number One?" Camille asked.


With keen interest, I watched the officers standing around me.
I said, "The War Department Inspector General."


Colonel Brown's mouth dropped open, while two officers dazedly
sat down.


"I'll be all right, now that you know," I continued. "Make the
call at once; then come to see me in the locked ward. Chin up,
Darling. Bye." I turned to the psychiatrist. "I'm ready to go with
you now."


My greatest fear was that I might be drugged. Having read of
drugs that produce symptoms of insanity, I reasoned that medical
officers who would knowingly confine a sane man in a mental
ward, would not hesitate about doping him. I decided to eat nothing
and drink only from the faucet, until I was interviewed by an
investigating officer. There would be an immediate investigation,
with Camille in there fighting.


Now, hearing her footsteps along the corridor, I knew she was
coming to tell me about that phone call. Hurrying into the hall, I
saw her enter Colonel Dowell's office.


Sonnets and songs are needed to describe my love for Camille.

[p. <i>10</i>]

Now she looked like an angel—an avenging angel. Camille
was quick to challenge anyone who even criticized me; and these
men were accusing me of insanity. Colonel Dowell would not have
a chance to say much. She would begin flinging words at him before
that door was closed.


Returning to my room, I thought of my twelve years of happiness
with Camille. We had been ideally happy, having few of the
incompatibilities that mar so many marriages. Being well adjusted
sexually and having similar likes and dislikes, each enjoyed the
other's companionship.


My primary thought had been of Camille's happiness. Centering
my life about her, I had developed too few outside interests.


Her love for me was possessive. I was hers; therefore she loved
me and I could do no wrong. However, her primary aim had been
to please me.


Camille also loved the dollar. Working four years before the
war, she had deposited her earnings in a personal savings account,
persuading me to pay her income taxes. Then, after I entered the
service, she handled all business and financial affairs.


Judged by the customary standards, Camille's conduct was perfect.
She did not drink, smoke or use slang. Yet she was not a
prude.


The attendant's rude call brought my thoughts back to the
mental ward. "Your wife's here," he said. Unlocking the barred
door, he escorted me to the small room where Camille and the
nurse were talking.


As I entered the nurse walked out, but she stood outside the
door while I visited with Camille.


I kissed Camille, holding her close; drawing from her renewed
strength and courage. "Darling, it's so good to see you. Now you're
not to worry, as I'll be out in short order if you follow my plan.
I want you to ..."


"Tom, I phoned the WDIG right after you talked with me,"
Camille interrupted, pushing me away to sit down. "I got so mad
I cried! They told me I'd have to phone the Service Command IG.

[p. <i>11</i>]

"Easy does it, Darling," I cautioned, patting her arm. "Don't
talk so loud. The nurse ..."


"Let her hear!" Camille fumed. "That psychiatrist says they're
holding you because you were disrespectful to the Post IG. I asked
him if they're claiming there's anything wrong with your mind or
nerves. He said not; that they're holding you on the order of the
CO. I told him if you're not released I'd get our Senator on the
phone and would ruin Colonel Brown."


"Darling, you're a real soldier," I whispered, pressing a note into
her hand. "Read this now."


This is a serious affair I got into by bucking Colonel Brown, but I'll
be out in short order if you follow my suggestions.


You must go by plane to Washington at once. Give my diary to Senator
Walter George and explain my case to him. He will arrange an appointment
with the WDIG and advise what action to take.


Stay in Washington until you're assured an investigation of my case
is under way.


Camille nodded emphatically. "I'll leave this afternoon," she
whispered. "I'll stay in town until I get the reservation."


She had been with me only ten minutes when the nurse said I
would have to return to the ward.


"Bye, Darling," I said, "don't worry about me. This is tough
medicine, but I can take it."


Camille clung to me. "I'll try, but to see you in those drab gray
pajamas and in this place gives me the creeps!"


Returning to my room, I stretched out on the bed. I felt relieved
since talking with Camille and thanked heaven for such a wife. An
alert mind and retentive memory enabled her to comprehend
problems that would baffle most women. And her shrewdness and
audacity compensated for her lack of sound judgment. I would not
be confined long after she reached Washington. She would soon
be in Austin, making ...


I waked to find a nurse standing close. Her warm smile and

[p. <i>12</i>]

"Hello," I called.


"Wilkes," she said; and her eyes and lips were no longer inviting,
"you're supposed to be in the ward dayroom, eating with
the other patients."


I came to my feet as the nurse turned to the door.


"Nurse," I reprimanded, "confinement does not cancel rank.
You will address me as befits my rank. As to the meal, you will
see that I'm served in my room. An officer does not dine with enlisted
men, black and white, even in a nut ward."


"Yes, sir," she said; then hurried down the corridor.


A Negro civilian brought me a cup of coffee, a spoon and a
cold GI meal. The food was piled on a dingy plastic tray.


Flushing most of the food down the commode, I stirred the remainder
about as though I had eaten. The coffee had a heavy narcotic
odor; a pleasant, pungent taste.


I placed the tray on the bed as the nurse entered.


"<i>Captain</i>, you're to take these." She handed me three capsules
and a glass of water. "And I'm here to see that you do."


<i>Three times the usual dose of sleeping powder</i>, I thought, <i>perhaps
something more sinister</i>. I moved my hand rapidly to my
mouth three times, dropping the capsules in my pajama pocket and
drinking some water after each.


"Why so many?" I protested.


"Colonel's orders," she replied, turning to the door.


"Just a minute," I called. "How about unlocking that thing so
I can shower?"


"All right," she said, unlocking the shower valves, "all right,
but it's not bath night."


The nurse left, and I showered. Then, looking up, I was surprised
to see her standing six feet away, her lips and eyes again
inviting.


"I appreciate the excellent service," I remarked.


"Patients can't bathe without being observed," she explained.
"You do have a pretty body, though."


As I put on pajamas, her puzzled expression clearly said, "What
kind of man are you? Drugs have no more effect than do my

[p. <i>13</i>]

Had I taken the capsules I would know they were hashish, for
dreams in vivid colors are rare. Atlanta was at the height of her
beauty; Peachtree Street crowded with beautiful girls in Easter
finery; the gorgeous homes in natural settings drawing new splendor
from the dogwood, wisteria and azaleas.


<i>Friday, May 11, 1945</i>. At eight A. M. I was conducted to the
small room where I had visited with Camille.


"In there!" the attendant said.


A psychiatrist, seated at the table, continued studying his notes
without any acknowledgment of my presence. His hands were
never still, and his eyes darted from page to page. "Sit down," he
ordered, without looking up. "Where is your wife?"


Somewhat startled, I wondered if he actually wanted to know
where she was; or, knowing, asked this question merely to disconcert
me.


He said, "Well?" His crafty smile was my answer. He knew I
had told Camille to go to Washington and that she had not gone.


"She's at the Guest House," I said.


"How do you feel?"


"Just fine."


"What do you mean: just fine?"


"Well," I answered, "I've never felt better in the past ten years."


"Then why are you here?" he demanded.


"Not of my own volition. Suppose you tell me: why am I here?"


"I'll ask the questions," he countered. "What do you think of
your treatment at this hospital?"


"Five weeks here got me into a mental ward," I replied. "So I
can't recommend the place."


The psychiatrist referred to a written list of questions. "What
kind of patients are in this ward?"


"You fellows say they're mentally ill."


"What are you worrying about?"


"I'm not. You've got to let me go eventually. In the meantime,
I can take it."

[p. <i>14</i>]

The psychiatrist asked rapid-fire questions for half an hour;
then another one entered.


My questioner gathered up his notes and left.


"What are you worrying about?" the second psychiatrist asked.


All morning they questioned me; Colonel Dowell coaching one
in his office across the hall, while the other was with me.


"What do you think is wrong with you?" ... "Are you a sexual
pervert?" ..."Did you threaten to kill Major Christian?" ...
"How long did your wife visit you yesterday?" ... "Where is she
now?" ... "Don't you know she's afraid of you?" ... Question!
Question! Question! All in the same maddening tone. I was questioned
all morning without a pause; without a drink of water.


By noon I was tired and hungry and thirsty—and fighting mad.


That night I was questioned by the Eighth Service Command
Inspector General, with a stenographer making a transcription.
Colonel Hale made no reply to my demand for release.


<i>Saturday, May 12th</i>. The Chief of the NP Section had not
questioned me since my arrest, so I was surprised when an attendant
escorted me to his office. Present also were the Hospital
Chief of Medical Services and Colonel Franklin Gessford Ebaugh,
Psychiatric Consultant of the Service Command.


I sat down to face the three officers.


"Face me, please," Colonel Ebaugh requested. "Turn your chair
this way; a little more please. Now, that's better. Yes, that's just
right. Now relax completely and answer my questions. Relax all
over and let the answers come right out."


Colonel Ebaugh was a psychiatrist of national prominence.
However, he questioned me in the usual psychiatric routine: family
history, early life and "Why are you in a mental ward?"


I related the events of my hospitalization in a factual manner,
ending with the third-degree questioning by the two psychiatrists.
"They cannot report one single thing as an NP symptom," I stated.
"I'm sane, and request my release."


"We'll see," Colonel Ebaugh replied, "we'll see. I want you back
here within the hour. General Hart wants to hear your story."

[p. <i>15</i>]

General William L. Hart, Medical Director, Eighth Service
Command, came to the mental ward an hour later, and Colonel
Ebaugh repeated his questions, and I told my story again. The psychiatrist
showed a confidence he had gained by the rehearsal, while
I probably evidenced some exasperation.


As I related my story, Colonel Ebaugh's eyes were fixed on a
pencil that he twirled in his fingers, while General Hart gazed
out the window.


"I have been retired from active duty," I stated. "If I were mentally
ill, this hospital would have no jurisdiction over me. I am
a civilian, am sane, and have done nothing to warrant a mental
diagnosis. I demand my immediate release."


Colonel Ebaugh dropped his pencil and the General turned
from the window. Both looked at me and doubt showed in their
eyes; then they looked at each other. The psychiatrist was noticeably
agitated.


I tried to consider my case from the General's viewpoint. If released,
I was going directly to Washington and prefer court-martial
charges against the Hospital CO and Executive Officer.


General Hart did not want the irregularities of one of his hospitals
brought to the attention of the War Department. Then the
Hospital CO was a Regular Army medical officer, as was the General.


My discharge from the Army as an NP case would disqualify
any court-martial charges I might make.


General Hart nodded his head at the psychiatrist.


"That—er—that will be all," Colonel Ebaugh said, his eyes
averted. He picked up the phone and said to the ward nurse, "Send
an attendant to conduct the Captain back to the ward."


<i>Sunday, May 13th</i>. Early this morning Lieutenant Colonel
Hallaran and Lieutenant Colonel Dowell came to my room. Their
excuse for the visit was a routine physical examination, although I
had been examined only six days earlier.


Had I been a general they could not have treated me with more
deference. While examining me, the Chief of Medical Services

[p. <i>16</i>]

Colonel Hallaran told me that I would be transferred that
morning to McCloskey General Hospital, Temple, Texas.


"Captain Wilkes," he said, "Colonel Dowell and I want you
to know that we sincerely regret this entire affair. We were only
carrying out Colonel Brown's orders."

