TRANSCRIPT OF AUDIO FILE:
______________________________________________________________________________
BEGIN TRANSCRIPT:
THERAPIST: Good morning.
CLIENT: Good morning. How are you?
THERAPIST: I'm doing well, thanks.
CLIENT: You never ask how are you?
THERAPIST: That's true for two reasons. The main one is because it can sort of distract or get things moving in a different direction from like what's on your mind.
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: And the other one is because I am probably going to hear it. (laughter)
CLIENT: Got it. Were you going to say something else?
THERAPIST: No.
CLIENT: I feel like I interrupted you. Okay. So, I had a really cool break through with Kelly. [00:01:03]
THERAPIST: Oh, good.
CLIENT: Which was precipitated by my deciding to stay home on Friday and take a, take some space from the whole thing.
THERAPIST: Right.
CLIENT: And then, and then we were going to leave for Virginia in the afternoon. Actually, when things start like really bothering you, at least for me, it's nearly impossible to take space from them. So, I tried and Jeremy sort of stuck around in the morning with me, which was fun, but like (inaudible at 00:01:53)
I was sort of like actually very weepy with him. Like how am I going to get through like six, seven more days of waiting for this experiment to repeat to before like confronting how bad I feel about it. And then he left and I forgot that thought and the feeling of being so worried. It was just like engulfed me. It was so powerful. To the point where I became completely uninhibited. [00:02:37]
Like I don't care what happens. This is so horrible I need to like, I really need to get some relief from these feelings . So, I e-mailed Kelly and it was just a very candid, raw e-mail like I'm feeling horrible. I'm feeling really anxious. I'm feeling extremely overwhelmed. I'm frustrated and all of these feelings are interfering with my ability like to go in to lab and like repeat the experiment. [00:03:25]
THERAPIST: Yeah.
CLIENT: Yeah and I talked to her a little bit about the individual frustrations with the experiment and how I felt like the whole world was resting on this phenotype of this mutant. And that I'm like eager to get over this hump so that I can like think about what's actually a pretty cool project and like thanks for listening, bye.
And she wrote back immediately and asked do you need to talk now and I really, really wanted to. So, as soon as I received that e-mail I started crying, and picked up the phone and, and like cried to her for 20 minutes. And she was very kind and patient and was so loving, almost. [00:04:46]
Like oh, (inaudible at 00:04:52), what's going on? Like, you know, like, unable to really speak and I am not really sure like what to think because there are so many overlapping feelings. But I told her, I said, I feel like I'm against this wall and I don't know, don't know like what it is and she sort of helped me through dissecting it and asked what the biggest parts of the wall were. [00:05:27]
And I said well, I feel like I'm totally disappointing you and I want, I want you to feel proud of me and I feel like you have given me so much patience and I want to make progress and all of those feelings are not familiar to me because I'm usually not so concerned about—you know like if I just make myself proud, that's usually like enough for me, but for some reason, I'm feeling really dominated by your opinion and then, then beyond that, like the actual science issue is amazing. [00:06:35]
And she spent a long time reassuring me that I am doing fantastic. Which is like exactly what you want to hear and it's amazing that she did that. It's like you're exactly where you need to be. I could not be prouder of you. You are dealing with, like if you want concrete examples just think of like all of the dialog that you have helped to create in the last six weeks that weren't there before you and you are engaging with this material in a really sophisticated way.
And, and then we started talking about like how bad it felt to face the reality of the results and she was pretty quick to say well, it actually sounds like your results are telling you that there is not a difference between the mutant and the control and it sounds like you really don't like that and that is. [00:07:43]
THERAPIST: Is it, is it sunny over there?
CLIENT: No. So, it's just that her message was any result is the best thing ever. It's really all you can ask for. Anything that you're, any result that you are confident in. You may not like what the result says, but that's sort of the whole point is to ask a question and get an answer and you're really lucky if you can get an answer because like 75 percent of things are unanswerable with the tools that we have.
And it sounds like you actually might not like this process, that this is the process. And yeah, she really, she really wanted to know what, and like of course like, there are a million more questions to ask and they're very exciting and you just have to sort of take this poking around approach where you don't know where you are going to find something, but— [00:09:01]
THERAPIST: I want to make something clear. What you were feeling a lot of pressure essentially to see in the results was that I don't know it was like temperature difference or something related to mutation rates or something like that?
CLIENT: It was, it was metabolizing fat. Does it increase mutation rate and variations on that theme? So, there are the mutants that like act like it's metabolizing fat even when it's metabolizing sugar. And we care about this because TB metabolizes fat in our lungs, but yet mutation rate differences.
THERAPIST: Right. And the answer you wanted was yes, there are.
CLIENT: Um hmm.
THERAPIST: And how it's been looking is no, there aren't? Is it more complicated?
CLIENT: How it's been looking is that I've like tried to do the experiment. I've tried to get many replicates of the experiment because the data are noisy, like—.
THERAPIST: Yeah.
CLIENT: You do it twice in a row at least in my hands, you're not getting the same replication rate. So, I've encountered like all sorts of technical difficulties just getting the experiments done. Then they're like seven (inaudible at 00:10:28) and they're trash. So, that was the biggest source of frustration and then the second thing is just like why aren't I seeing a difference because I did once. But that was not a well-controlled experiment.
THERAPIST: I see. [00:10:49]
CLIENT: And if I did see a difference, there would be all sorts of like exciting—
THERAPIST: Right.
CLIENT: —questions coming out of that, but Kelly's points was those questions, like this is such a small part of the puzzle and there are so many exciting questions whether or not this is true.
THERAPIST: Yeah. So she kind of had a broader view of the importance and exactingness of this area.
CLIENT: Yes, a much broader view.
THERAPIST: And you were feeling like much more vested on the outcome of these experiments?
CLIENT: Yeah. [00:11:30]
THERAPIST: At a variety of levels including what could be learned from this, what it would mean for your research. How she would think of you. How this would relate to the like ways you and she are are talking to other people about it.
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: All that stuff.
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: Yeah.
CLIENT: She also had a much broader view of my capacity to fix the issues. Like you are going to be, you are going to get an incredible result when three months. And I was like that must be a nice feeling to feel so confident about that. She said it's just experience. You see things like nucleating before they actually happen.
So, that was nice and I made a bunch of signs with various quotes from the conversation and stuck them up on my wall. I felt a huge relief.
THERAPIST: Yeah.
CLIENT: And incredibly clearly lucky and sort of like amazed at human nature and— [00:12:57]
And then I had all like all of these really nice, familiar reactions in the momentum. Like I wanted to read like read about my project. I wanted to like bake cookies and bring them to Kelly's house. I wanted to like e-mail you and I wanted to go running. And that's a pretty great set of reactions I haven't felt in a long time.
Since then we've, Kelly has been extremely dedicated to me and my mental health. We talked a little bit. Like she really wanted to know how other things were going and so, she just like knows my whole sort of process. You know, my various attempts at taking medication and how I feel about that and therapy and meditation. [00:14:07]
She's been quite interested and caring and sort of concerned that I'm doing the right things that feel right for me. And I shared with her yesterday that I often feel that a part of me just wants to like throw in the towel and go home and—like visit Jeremy once in a while, and like e-mail Kelly once in a while and that was nice to tell her because that's sort of like the thing that you don't want to tell her and it was nice to just—
THERAPIST: Like oh, what I really want to do is be here 24 hours a day.
CLIENT: Yeah. (laughter)
THERAPIST: But I'm really excited for you, yeah.
CLIENT: But somehow it seems like we had passed that point. Like when you call, when you're like crying on the phone to your advisor and, and it, in an almost in an inconsolable way at first, there isn't a lot of like worry that you're making the wrong impression, like all of that is—.
THERAPIST: Yeah. (inaudible at 00:15:35)
CLIENT: So, she was kind of, she was sweetly panicked when I described that fantasy to her and clearly like does not want me to leave the lab. But said I don't mean to give you direct advice, but I think you should not go home to Virginia. Your life is here and I think that would not be a good thing for you or Jeremy or us here.
And somehow her saying that made such a, a bigger impact on me than like Jeremy saying it. Like don't go home to Virginia. That like your life is here. So, I've been like repeating to myself I like it here and it feels good. [00:16:43]
But I have to say I have been feeling pretty intrinsically sad. So, even though I feel really grateful and it's almost like the anxiety about lab has really, really subsided and in its place has emerged like this sort of like gloom and it's very intrinsic. I can't think of anything that would make it go away.
THERAPIST: Yeah, my impression is it doesn't feel clearly related to anything or to bury some of the things that happened. It's just like a fog or something? [00:17:58]
CLIENT: Um hmm—I mean it definitely goes up and down throughout the day. When I interact with people, it goes down. When I'm at home, it seems to go up a little bit. But, then it can go down again. Meditation was very hard yesterday.
THERAPIST: How so?
CLIENT: Oh, I just felt like crying. That's not really an answer. Why was it hard? I just—
THERAPIST: Give me some insight.
CLIENT: (laughter) I think, I think it's not a complete picture of why it was hard. That I meant I think part of the fog is like this really—like this trap of ruminating often about the fog and so that was like the content of my, my sitting. You know, it was like whenever I would breathe my breath I would go to the ruminating and then I would go to noticing the ruminating. [00:19:59]
THERAPIST: So, it was like you were preoccupied?
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: While you were trying to be focused on your breathing.
CLIENT: But I was trying to be mindful of it and not judge it or react, but it's so, it's so like captivating that I, I think I got lost in it and I wasn't able to like treat it as an objective. Just had a lot of weight.
THERAPIST: You know, it seems like it's sort of feels like sometimes like it's kind of a (inaudible at 00:20:54) of you.
CLIENT: Um hmm. [00:21:05]
THERAPIST: And I think you don't want to be having trouble with this. [00:22:03]
CLIENT: I really don't—I can like in theory say that it's a journey and—that I, that I, it's growth and that in whatever, two years, I will be grateful for the, the tools that I've picked up and be grateful for having really been opened up to a mental, a sphere of mental states that I have, I have not before. And that allows me to understand other people a lot better. It allows me to understand myself better and (inaudible at 00:22:58) with lab, but it, it, it, I feel like I really want it to be over. But not in the like task oriented way that I felt in the beginning. Like I'm not looking for anything to do to make it over— [00:23:34]
I am a little bit revisiting medication, like the idea that medication might be useful, but not in a desperate or urgent way. So, in some sense, that aspect has shifted a little bit where I really just—I'm uncomfortable with it and wish it weren't there, but I'm not—
THERAPIST: Do you feel—I imagine you might feel like something of a disappointment because of this?
CLIENT: Yeah, well it's—it's almost like my quality of life isn't as rich or good as it could be. But I—when I say could be I guess I mean like compared to what it felt like it used be or compared to maybe what it will be later. So, yeah, that's disappointing. [00:25:08]
THERAPIST: I imagine it in a different way, although—I wouldn't think so much of it being disappointing to you that you feel this way, but you're feeling like the disappointment.
CLIENT: Oh.
THERAPIST: For not feeling better. For not having an easier time.
CLIENT: I don't know. I don't think I'm disappointing anyone. Actually, what I'm frustrated with is the fact that that people who don't—I don't know. Some people will say like "but you seem so calm". And you've said that before too and that—that feels—sort of bad. It's like well what do you want me to—this is my personality. I think that was unrelated. [00:26:48]
CLIENT: But, yeah.
THERAPIST: You know, it's what came to mind.
CLIENT: It's what came to mind.
THERAPIST: So—
CLIENT: Like, it's almost like I feel disappointed that—it, it takes so much effort to like describe and explain and that I can't just like be and have people know and—just have that be an implicit understanding. And some people are in my life who have, who really do understand from their own life experience are really rewarding to interact with. Like my friend Erica and Jeremy and a whole bunch of other people, but when you can like just say, it's not—things just aren't really feeling good and they just know and they just like—sort of just make you feel like they're there with you on your journey and like let's go see a play. Like that sort of thing. [00:28:19]
THERAPIST: And it feels as if that's like I'm that way.
CLIENT: Umm—no. I think, I didn't mean to directly contrast, you know, saying you seem so calm and being on the journey with me. It's more just the, the first thing is frustrating and the second thing is sort of soothing and they might come from the same person, but it's annoying to—I guess it's annoying to feel like I have to appear not calm.
THERAPIST: Like as though you're supposed to be doing this differently, or— [00:29:39]
CLIENT: Like (laughing) I don't know what I'm supposed to be, yeah-
THERAPIST: Yeah.
CLIENT: Yeah, like acting crazy or not smiling or laughing or—.
THERAPIST: I guess it feels like there's an implicit criticism.
CLIENT: Maybe. And part of it is my own, like, uncertainty about what to do when I don't feel, when I feel this sort of really gloomy fog and what's so—if nothing feels good to do, then what's the thing that you do? And my instinct is just like to do what I would do without the fog. It's like continue interacting with people and sort of being open to where the, some relief will come from.
THERAPIST: There is one thing that's striking in all of this is that—you feel so much relief about work.
CLIENT: I know, right? [00:31:02]
THERAPIST: But that hasn't seemed to touch this.
CLIENT: Yeah. Which was why I feel like it's so intrinsic. It doesn't feel related to anything.
THERAPIST: Do you feel like it was there, say last week, but just underneath all that anxiety?
CLIENT: Yeah and, and I would say that it was there before the wedding. Like, this is the same coin. It's just—I think like some part of the spectrum is anxiety and some part of it is depression or whatever it is. So, I think the anxiety has been a huge component of how its manifested and maybe its been placed on all of these things that actually do make me anxious. Like, going to Yosemite and like doing my mouse experiment right before and—. [00:32:28]
You know, Kelly, Kelly this, Kelly that and my experiments. But like poking out of that every now and then will be like this very internal—like missing something, like missing some like chemical things. It feels very biochemical. And I remember saying to Jeremy like the first day that I felt it. Like I feel like I have a different brain.
THERAPIST: Which day was that?
CLIENT: It was the—it was the week before, the weekend before the wedding. When I had like returned from the trip. Go ahead. [00:33:48]
?: Suspicious.
THERAPIST: In that, the things it seems to stick to, like the wedding or the mouse experiment or the stuff at Yosemite, or at work recently is, is similar stuff. I mean it's all performative. It's all quite visible to somebody or other people. It doesn't really matter—. You know, when you feel supported or understood or grounded that that tends to help.
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: At least for the kind of local outtake. If not—
CLIENT: Right.
THERAPIST: (inaudible at 00:34:48)
CLIENT: Right.
THERAPIST: And—I don't know. I, I guess like I was partly furrowing and smirking there a minute ago because it would be quite a coincidence if your brain changed all of a sudden a week before the wedding. You know. Things happen. I guess— [00:35:15]
CLIENT: The thing I haven't explored is—
THERAPIST: Yeah.
CLIENT: —like Jeremy himself. You know, because like my, the first thing my mom asked was do you want to get married to Jeremy? To both of us actually. Do you want to get married to each other? Like in the midst, of on the same day when I and—we both think, we both said yes because we do or we did, but I never sort of touched that as like being part of the, part of the, or like I haven't really explored it and I wonder if I did if I would find something.
Do you know that my mom cried when she first learned that Jeremy and I were dating and that we were serious? [00:36:32]
THERAPIST: No, I didn't know that. I know you said there was a struggle related to cultural stuff. I think in your family more than his you said.
CLIENT: Yeah, it lasted about five years, the trouble and it started with my mom crying.
THERAPIST: Long term trouble, yeah.
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: But I didn't know how it started and I didn't remember clearly it was so long.
CLIENT: Anyway, I, I don't ever think about how Jeremy is part of the bad feeling, but I think there are challenges to being married to Jeremy and there are challenges to being married to me and we are like pretty new at exploring the challenges so that's like all going on too. [00:37:44]
THERAPIST: And I guess I sort find myself going back a bit to how the dimension between Kelly and your mother and your concerns about disappointing them and whether—on one hand, it was great to have Kelly react the other day. It sounds like she was kind of perfect. Actually, I was going to say one thing, but when I said that it made me think something different which is maybe that's part of the problem. It's easy having a perfect mother. [00:39:07]
CLIENT: They're just so perfect, I know. Kelly's not very perfect, but yeah, I know what you mean. One of the things that I expressed to my mom a few weeks ago was like oh I'm really having trouble with this because you never really went through anything like this and you're a pretty big role model and when it feels like I'm straying from—
THERAPIST: (inaudible at 00:39:43)
CLIENT: From- yeah from that and too actually the whole point of role models is they help you like know how to deal with stuff and actually you are helping me in, in some ways, but not really in the way that like I went through this. And actually she did, I mean she said she had a pretty short term postpartum depression that was very, very intense.
THERAPIST: With you?
CLIENT: With me. She had just moved to Virginia. It was the first time living away from home. My dad was starting a new job. She didn't know anyone and she was totally depressed. [00:40:30]
THERAPIST: She was taking care of a newborn.
CLIENT: She was taking care of a newborn.
THERAPIST: As wonderful as you were, it was a newborn.
CLIENT: Yeah, at least you have a baby to play with. (laughter)
THERAPIST: (laughter) What? Like, of course what—
CLIENT: Like that's pretty cool. I think that's pretty, I think that's different from going through a tough time in the absence of a newborn. Somehow I don't feel like, like I still say my, my mom hasn't gone through something quite like this. Even though—
THERAPIST: Sure. I wasn't meaning to disagree with you at all. [00:41:19]
CLIENT: But I think she, I think she would say that she—
THERAPIST: She would, she might disagree.
CLIENT: She might disagree or I mean what she said was I did go through a really, really rough time but basically I had it all at once in my life and never again and she also said I didn't do a PhD and actually I don't have your personality. I'm pretty risk averse and I would never want to get a PhD because that sounds horrible and I don't want to feel uncomfortable for, for that sort of thing. So, that's her response to it, but I, I see what you mean about the perfect mother thing. It almost feels like it's an unrealistic—goal or an unhelpful one. [00:42:31]
THERAPIST: And if—yeah, if that's what you're trying to live up to. It's not too difficult to get a disappointment or worried of their disappointed or feeling disappointment.
CLIENT: Or you feel lost. You know, I don't think I feel like a disappointment. I'm pretty great. Like, there, there are things I am worried about like whether or not living up to other than—
THERAPIST: With your mom?
CLIENT: —with my mom. Other than the fact that like, well maybe there are. I take it back.
THERAPIST: We're going to stop for now and we'll talk more tomorrow.
END TRANSCRIPT
