TRANSCRIPT OF AUDIO FILE:
____________________________________________________________________________________
BEGIN TRANSCRIPT:
PATIENT: I wanted especially to be here on time today. Actually I left about 4:00 and then my radiator overflowed and the car's stranded up in Oakland. (inaudible @ 0:12)
COUNSELOR: Wow, you're car is stranded in Oakland?
PATIENT: Yeah. I made it there and then it was gone but it's symbolic in some respects because I had a lot of really, really, really, really wonderful thoughts in preparation for the session why I was so anxious to get here because -
COUNSELOR: Yeah, you said you were anxious to be here.
PATIENT: Yeah, something really clicked for me and the two things - I want to kind of deal with the thing that kind of clicked for me and then this phenomenon that I experienced of having these seemingly very, very clear insights that I figure are wonderful organizing principles for my life which don't necessarily stop working but ultimately get superseded weeks or months later by yet another overriding, organizing principle. A big one for me several weeks ago was "all you can do is all you can do" which seemed to resonate with me but the thing that's really on my mind now is the "high-tech, high-touch" phrase which I hadn't read in years and years but came back to me and [didn't make a lot of sense for me] (ph). I continue to deal with this obsession, compulsion I have about wanting to come hug and snuggle up with the women in my life. Women that I - along the way I was even thinking to myself, "I'd love give you a hug sometime". What is that about? And it occurred to me somehow - I was trying to figure out how exactly I got to that insight but I remember from John Nesbit's Mega Trends, "high-tech, high-touch" was a concept of the more technological we get the more there's a need to get very earthly, very kind of centered as a counter trend to technology. [2:27]
I think the crisis I had at the beginning of the summer  - when I first came to see Dr. Waner and you when I was in a state of immense panic and anxiety in my life as just about as low as I've ever felt - came as I think about it now, much of it I think was a reaction to being left out of this whole "dot-com" revolution that kind of took place in the Stock Market in the last (inaudible @ 2:55). And society and everybody was - you know, this 17 or 18 year old kid was starting his own company and the Wall Street guys were all backing these geeks and kids. And it just reminded me of a lifelong struggle, conflict about getting hip to technology and machines and how convinced I was that I was really out of it. And how I felt I had no money and no appeal to women and no this and no that and the whole world was passing me by because I didn't have a "dot-com" or remote ideas of how to get to a "dot-com". And I think that just left me so paralyzed and stranded and depressed that it really sucked me into that abyss. [3:40]
And now as this whole "dot-com" thing seems to have imploded and the world is going back to normal, I've been feeling - partly as a result of the Paxil but I have to say (inaudible @ 3:50) but I stopped the Paxil about a week or two ago. I started diminishing the doses and then giving it up altogether and I feel terrific. And I began to remind myself, I think the Paxil served wonderfully to kind of get me over that terrible hump I was in. The terrible crisis I was talking about a moment ago. But then I think after a period of time, it had the side effects for me which resulted mostly in this tremendous desire to eat all the time, putting on a lot of weight, a little bit of sluggishness. I wasn't exercising as much. And I think a little bit of a kind of euphoric detachment from real world concerns I think; that may be more projection. I'm not sure. But now that I'm kind of back and feeling more centered and clear and very much trying to connect to this overwhelming need to be very touchy-feely with all the women in my life, I think I'm feeling that my reactions to that whole high-tech business was such a freaky thing for me that if I really think about what my life is about - my tremendous pride in my father and in my two kids, the tremendous pleasures and gratifications I get out of my relationships with women  - [ I think I've of very centered myself on Aidan as just a very earthy, tactile, high-touch guy who is managing to make a decent life] (ph) outside of this whole high-tech world.
[5:51]
And I think the experience of the last few weeks and months - my talks with you, my talks with Jemma, I had a very good talk today with my father about family issues - reminds that where I can really organize my life well is in the very centered-grounding, person-to-person, talking and hugging and being very earthy about what I'm doing in my life. And where exactly that's going to take me, I'm not sure. I have a tremendous need now I think to kind of experience other women besides Jemma. I'm going to try to figure out how to transition that. And I really want to maybe write ultimately about what it means to be kind of an aging guy in his 50s feeling these feelings about wanting to escape the high-tech revolution or find an alternative stream to paddle around and what that means to be really in touch with issues about masculinity and manhood and relating to women. And that's become I think a kind of a very organizing mission for me.
[7:24]
COUNSELOR: You said this very quickly right at the very beginning but I did notice that you said that you have thoughts of wanting to hug me.
PATIENT: Yeah.
COUNSELOR: Can you say more about that?
PATIENT: Well, just the hugging, the touching in my life which has - for the last year and a half - mostly been around Jemma, has been very gratifying but in some way restricting to me. And the anxiety or the fear that if I married Jemma or got totally in touch with Jemma, stayed in a relationship with Jemma, I would in effect, limit the opportunities to physically hug other women that I feel close to, feel a connection with. That really came home to me. As I was thinking about how I was going to explain this to you, I said to myself, "You know I sit here and I so much look forward to my sessions with Julie and the tremendous amount of feeling and thinking that I prepare for it with in terms of - and how, just in relating to you as a woman - it's really helped ground me in my manhood and really has awakened this need to touch and hug, It's reminded me of how wonderful that feels for me. [9:01]
And how the connections I make with the women, whether it's Skyler, whether it's my daughter, Kelly - who's been very reluctant to hug me - my experience of hugging and just having a tactile physical experience with women whose company I enjoy, who stimulate me. In that context it occurred to me; I so enjoy what happens in our time together that it would feel more complete, it would feel wonderful to give you a hug; to just connect with you and partly to express my appreciation to you for the help that you've given to me and to feel even closer to you than I do now because it's a very just tremendously rewarding experience for me to be here. And how much of this is your - you know I notice much of our time together my experience of you is very non-verbal. I get tremendous responses and communications from you in a very non-verbal way. You don't - very often I start out these sessions - I did today - with these long monologues. And I notice I could talk for 10, 15, 20 minutes and you're very present. You're listening to me very closely and even the facial expressions I usually get from you; it's very much the way you smile very warmly and your eyes seem very alert and you seem very receptive and very - you know, the non-verbal cues as I say that I get from you are very wonderful to me. And so there is just a very, very positive, warm feeling that I have toward you and the work that you're facilitating or the work that we're doing together. And the progress that I've made further reinforces the wonderful connection between us. And so it would - and you know, you're a young attractive woman and so there's a general desire to be close and physically connected to all the attractive, bright women in my world. And then in particular with you, there's an even more felt sense of what a wonderful connection, gratification it would be for me - and possibly for you too - to at some point in our experience of what we're doing here to have a hug. [12:16]
COUNSELOR: So...so...
PATIENT: And then to be able to talk about it.
COUNSELOR: So what's it like to not be getting a hug?
PATIENT: Well, it's wonderful to be able to talk about it. I mean this is pretty bold stuff for me to be talking about hugging your therapist. So I'm pleased that I feel able to express it to you. I don't begin to think that within the ethical restraints of psychotherapy that it would be permissible to you to do it even if you wanted to. So I can respect the fact that it's probably something that won't come about; at least not [with the camera on] (ph). But then again, I don't know. I don't know what training; what ideas percolate through the work that you've done on yourself and the people and maybe - I can conceive that is some schools of psychotherapy, they may say, "If it feels like a good thing to do, why not? Give your patient a hug." [13:35]
COUNSELOR: And what do you imagine that doing for you to receive a hug?
PATIENT: I think it would be a sense of just tremendous - it would give me a chance to be that much closer to you; to share a very special experience and to have you know how - it would be in a way some symbolism to it. Just  -
COUNSELOR: What would it symbolize?
PATIENT: Just the togetherness; the fact that we've jointly engaged in a life changing experience for me. And hugging is a symbolic way that people who've kind of come through an experience - whether it's a brief social experience or a major life changing experience - to usually have some physical connection to kind of celebrate the beginning or end of what they're doing together. So it makes a lot of sense for me in that respect. [14:45]
COUNSELOR: So it would symbolize...?
PATIENT: Some celebration of what we've done together. [Just the pleasure] (ph) of holding you and being held by you I think would fulfill a little fantasy in my mind. It would be nice to have some kind of physical connection to you. And it just kind of takes me down a road of wanting to be more physical with the important women in my life. I have no interest whatsoever in hugging men. But I want in this next period of my life to have a lot of wonderful women friends and in a profound way to connect to them and to feel that the non-verbal communications between us can say as much as the verbal because there's so much noise that comes out. [16:08]
COUNSELOR: What's the noise?
PATIENT: Well, there's a lot of talking; a lot of intellectualizing and I know that that's something I've done all my life. I've been recognized by the women of my life as being a very articulate spokesman for what it is that I have to say.
COUNSELOR: So I'm wondering what it is that it's hard to put into words?
PATIENT: Well, there's a time for stopping to talking and just feeling and sensing and experiencing in a non-verbal way and just see what comes up. It would be a curiosity, you know? What would it feel like? I don't know. I think it would feel very, very warm and wonderful; very, very gratifying; very, very - it would be a moment of shared intimacy that would be something different from if you've never done it before, I imagine it would be very distinct for you. If you've done it before maybe - I don't know. I'd love to hear what your experience of it would be. And I'd love to see what my experience of it would be. I think it would bring us even closer together and perhaps - I mean, with each week I feel that I'm exploring more and more of the terrain around me. The essence of who I am and what I'm all about to the extent that it may unlock even more of these kind of deep core feelings about what I am and this obsession about getting to the essence of how I can best organize my life with women because does it - by breaking up with Jemma or transitioning with Jemma from this exclusive, monogamous relationship we've had which looked like it might settle me into a very comfortable traditional path of being in a permanent committed relationship with her - as I become more convinced that that's not what I want for my life - [18:34]
COUNSELOR: So you don't want that?
PATIENT: I don't want that. I think I want to have a want to the extent that Jemma will let me do it to be very important to her and have her remain important to me but I don't want at this point to be restricted in being able to connect with other women. I think I've crossed that  -
COUNSELOR: This is very important and I know you mentioned that you had an important conversation with her but I didn't want to lose the focus on these ideas you have of us hugging and what that would mean to you. And it does remind me of a piece of our conversation a couple of weeks ago where you said that it's only when a woman goes go to bed with you that you really know that you've got a thumb's up. And that's something that came to mind as you were talking that you were speaking about a wonderful experience that you imagined. But I wonder about some of the things that may be going into this longing that you're expressing. [19:50]
PATIENT: Well, I do recognize that - and what I said then I think I still believe - that it is a way to kind of cut through a lot of the niceties and the bullshit of life that these non-verbal - that there's so much crap and garbage in the talking out of feelings that the actual physical contact - I talked then about going to bed with a woman to know that when she says that she likes me or respects me or appreciates me that it's a more definitive expression of how close she feels to me if she wants to engage in something as incredibly intimate as being in bed together. But I think that as I've thought about it a little bit more, I don't know if it has to go that far. I don't think it has to be such a quintessentially sexual experience. I think it can be enough to get a - I think that in the feelings that go into just a hug with a woman  -
COUNSELOR: So this hug would stand for the same thing?
PATIENT: I think it might stand for the same thing.
COUNSELOR: It would stand for validation?
PATIENT: Validation and approval and just pure pleasure in having me as a companion and a symbol of a potentially long, enduring connection that we would be forming; that we would kind of come together as symbolic of the beginning of a friendship. A friendship where we could each reliably count on each other to listen, talk through and be there for each other and enjoy doing things with each other. If ultimately it led to something more intimate than just a fully clothed hug, that's one way it could go. But if it became nothing more than just a - [22:23]
COUNSELOR: So you're imagining in some way that this therapeutic relationship would develop into a sexual or romantic relationship?
PATIENT: No. I think that's a fantasy but it doesn't feel like it needs to go in that direction. I think that's a little off the wall. I think that's a little bit  -
COUNSELOR: But the hug stands for that in some way.
PATIENT: The hug stands for - right, but in a socially acceptable way; in a way that doesn't  -
COUNSELOR: But psychically, it stands for that, right?
PATIENT: Well, it stands for approval and good feelings and connection and warmth and celebration and just many, many, many wonderful things that I associate with more intimate physical contact with a woman in any way. My approach to having a sexual relationship with a woman is no longer what it used to be which was - in my 20s - much more of a predatory kind of thing. It was all about me and getting my rocks off and all that. And then it's come in the last several years to be much more about these feelings that I'm talking about today; a celebration and warmth and approval. But in a way that was not exploitative; that was not predatory; that made it feel as warm and wonderful to my companion as it was for me. So that it would definitely not be something that I would want to do if somebody didn't want it; wasn't as gratified by it as I was. So it's evolved into a much more sharing and egalitarian and just along those lines. Because that's what's come back to me from Jemma that she feels like she has grown and deepened and gained a great deal about self-respect; of empowerment in her negotiations with her husband in the divorce; just a good feeling about herself as a result of the relationship that we've had for the last year. So it's reminded me that a wonderful physical relationship between a man and a woman that's based on non-exploitative, non-predatory, very shared open feelings of just wanting to support each other can be extraordinarily wonderful for the woman as well as for [Buds] (ph). [25:49]
So it leads me it leads me back into the kind of 60s, 70s era of kind of just free, open lovemaking and just the period of time I was in college and that whole period  -
COUNSELOR: You'd like to be back there in some ways?
PATIENT: Well, there was some - yeah, in some ways I think the (inaudible @ 26:22) worldview of what's  -
COUNSELOR: And yet as you said earlier, you're content in being middle-aged.
PATIENT: Yeah. So it is tough because it's not the kind of thing that society expects of middle-aged men. I'm more expected to be settled in my career and family and to be leading a much more traditional life. I've wanted to burst out of those chains and be very, very - and develop many warm - you know, have more experiences like what we're having.
COUNSELOR: Well perhaps the limits on this relationship feel like chains as well that you would like to burst.
PATIENT: Well, they do. I would agree with that but at the same time were it my luck to fall into a school of therapy whose therapists are open to hugging their clients that would be wonderful. But I accept the fact that that might be the rare school of therapy that endorses that. It might be counter to - I mean, I know that there are certainly restrictions on  -
COUNSELOR: Are you asking me a question?
PATIENT: Yeah, maybe that's a good question to ask. Yeah. You have not been in the past been too receptive to answering questions I've asked but it can't hurt to ask. Is there anything in your ethical - in the particular therapy that you're trained in that speaks one way or another to hugging your clients?
COUNSELOR: I won't hug you.
PATIENT: Okay.
COUNSELOR: And I won't - and there won't be a physical relationship during this treatment or at any time in the future. [28:34]
PATIENT: Okay.
COUNSELOR: And I do think that's a great deal to think about about the wishes that you have and how they relate to your experience here. And so one of the reasons why those things won't happen is because I believe that would foreclose on you learning something about what's going on.
PATIENT: You do?
COUNSELOR: Yeah, I do. I do.
PATIENT: Can you elaborate on that?
COUNSELOR: I think there are things that need to get into words here that aren't getting words. And I think this idea of a hug is very meaningful and it's very important to understand it to continue to talk about it. And of course, you're welcome to talk about and encouraged to talk about anything that's on your mind but the action would, I believe, put an end to the process of understanding. So that's the why.
PATIENT: [Why? Why?] (ph) Is that a general principle that applies to all the therapy that you do or is that just particular to my case? Were I somebody else where the circumstance -
COUNSELOR: Are you having some idea that other people are getting hugs that you're not getting?
PATIENT: I just asked the question.
COUNSELOR: It sounds like - well, I guess I should say, I hear that you're asking me a question but I wonder if there isn't some way in which you're wanting to tell me something. [30:15]
PATIENT: Well, I respect the answer you gave me. It was not unexpected but I guess I wanted - it wasn't entirely clear to me whether you wanted you felt that because of the particular place that Aidan was coming from any kind of hug or physical connection between us would be bad for our particular work as opposed to somebody else. You might say, "I'm not foreclosed generally from hugging my patients if that's what I think is the right thing to do but I just don't think in your case it's the right thing to do."
COUNSELOR: Well, what if that were the case? Then how would you feel? And I would ask - yeah, let's just stay with that? How would you feel if that's what -?
PATIENT: Well, then it might say to me okay I can - at least my idea was not so wacky that it's totally farcical to think so that it would be nice to hear that the idea of a therapist hugging their patient is something that Julie can theoretically or hypothetically do.
COUNSELOR: What would it mean to you if I theoretically or hypothetically could but don't with you? What would that do to you?
PATIENT: Okay, well then I would be that much more stimulated to kind of find out what is it about me that makes it not appropriate. But at least to know that the idea itself was one that - [31:54]
COUNSELOR: This a little complicated. I mean, on the one hand, it sounds to me like you're asking for reassurance that you didn't say something wacky. That you have some worries about what you said.
PATIENT: Yeah.
COUNSELOR: And there also sounds like there's something about some singling out of you in some way that you'd want to investigate.
PATIENT: Yeah.
COUNSELOR: And I'm not sure which way to go here in terms of - you know, those are somewhat different concerns so  -
PATIENT: Well, I guess I've just imbued very much now with kind of the excitement of this idea that I have that hugging between patients and therapists and hugging between Aidan and important people in Aidan's life can be just wonderfully stimulating and gratifying and just carry all kinds of positive implications. [32:48]
COUNSELOR: Would it change you in some way that you're seeking to be changed? Is that somewhere in here - ?
PATIENT: Well, it might send me a message that the path that I've outlined today is - at least in your view given all that you know about me and all the work that we've done - it might send me a message that you know keep going with it. "You're making - as your analyst, Aidan, I'm happy to hear that you're making good progress and I want to send you a message that from my point of view it feels right." It would be nice again to have some symbol of your approval or your - yeah, it would be a nice way of hearing from you that you agree with me and that you are feeling that our therapy is going - I don't know, for example, whether you feel that our work from your point of view is going in a direction that you as a therapist approve of. [34:11]
COUNSELOR: My approval is intensely important.
PATIENT: Yes. Yeah and I'll tell you why. Because I said the other thing that I wrestled with all week is the fact that these organizing principles or mantras come and go so frequently. And I would love to be able to get my arms around one so to speak and hug it to death and say, "This is one that really this time feels so right, you know, I should like write it on my palm."
COUNSELOR: [Including the thought, I guess what popped into my mind] (ph) is an intense feeling of something missing.
PATIENT: Missing?
COUNSELOR: Yeah. You want to get your arms around something, someone.
PATIENT: Well, I think that I  -
COUNSELOR: You're having a very hard time doing so I think.
PATIENT: Well, I think I mentioned and I think a lot of this goes back to the fact that so much of my upbringing with my mother was so kind of loveless and empty and so I think there was a lot missing from my first marriage. So until I think about the age of 40, I think there was a lot missing from my life. And I think in the last 10, 12 years, I've worked very hard to kind of make up for that 40 years. And I think I feel now that I think I'm on to something but I'm not sure because I've had so many prior insights that I thought were life changing and turned out to have kind of just melted away over time. So it would be wonderful to know that this particular sense of being very centered and grounded around this kind of high-touch concept as a counter to the technological frenzy that I'm living in that maybe this time I've really got it right. And you as somebody who has listened to me and knows something about me is encouraging me to go along with it. It kind of feels right to you. [36:33]
COUNSELOR: We're going to have to stop.
PATIENT: Okay. Alright. Good. Fine.
END TRANSCRIPT
