<font size="4"><b>Twelve</b></font>

FULLY commercial now, more competitive than ever, the
whole working of the industry changed. Whether for reasons
of policy, friendship, or talent, sponsor or advertising agency
might bring a man of their own selection in on one show; by
this act making him a radio announcer overnight. It supplied
needed personalities and new voices and helped to set radio
in high gear.


"Watch Brokenshire's work," newcomers were told. Some
new staff men were put in my charge for their first few weeks.
One of them was a colorful, very interesting chap named
David Rosenthal, a diminutive man with a sad triangular
face, a massive forehead, and blue, wondering eyes. This was
a dreamer, a poet, who had never left his little corner of
New York City but could express his dreams in a voice of
pure gold. It was decided that "David Ross" would be a much
easier name to handle over the air waves, and so it became;
after twenty-four years no one has come along who can read
a poem as David Ross can.


With new personalities and new voices came more complex
growth. A name to conjure with in these days was Ralph
Wentworth, because he was in charge of the artists' bureau.
This bureau listed all the talent ever heard on a radio station
and all applicants who wished to be on radio. It was its
function to juggle these names, dealing them out to interested
advertising agencies for the consideration of sponsors. If you

[p. <i>132</i>]

Public appearances of radio personalities became an increasingly
important part of the business; here, too, the
artists' bureau was the go-between. Fees were set in relation
to the national scope and popularity of shows. In addition to
my studio jobs, whenever and wherever possible I was sent
to head up personal appearance shows. In this connection
I got an unexpected second chance at vaudeville. The Checker
Cab Company put on a very successful radio show and decided
to follow through to build up good will with the New York
public by sending out a vaudeville act, based on its very good
orchestra under the baton of Willard Robison. He was widely
known for two wonderful and successful musical numbers of
his own composition, "The Devil Is Afraid of Music" and
"Cottage for Sale." I was made the master of ceremonies. The
act opened with a bang at Coney Island for a tryout, then
covered the local Keith-Albee circuit.


All in all those were happy, busy days. Radio was big
enough to be exciting in many ways, yet not too big to have
an <i>esprit de corps</i>, a family gaiety. Between staff and artists
you worked among old friends as well as a steady stream of
new ones, all absorbed in building the interest and appeal of
this wondrous thing called Radio, and of course their own
careers.


The special-events department grew both in personnel and
daring. We were still on the top floor of the Steinway Building
on West Fifty-seventh Street, but the studio facilities were
so cramped that we spilled over into the studios of a large
recording company across the street, and also into the studios
of WOR, which, as I have said, was our joint flagship station.


In our zeal to free special events of all limitations in the
public mind, it was announced that we were going to do the
impossible. We were going out to meet the great incoming
dirigible <i>Graf Zeppelin</i> in the air.


The newspapers were full of wonderful stories about Dr.
Hugo Eckener's gallant plan to fly for the second time from
Germany to the United States in a lighter-than-air craft. In
the same year in which Nikolai Lenin died, 1924, Dr. Eckener
left Friedrichshafen, Germany, in command of the <i>ZR 3</i>,

[p. <i>133</i>]

Experience as ranking radio reporter got me the assignment.
I was instructed to report the morning of August 4 at
Hadley Field, New Jersey, flying out to meet the dirigible
with the pilot of the Bell Laboratory experimental plane, a
four-place Fairchild nicknamed "Flying Telephone Booth."


I went out to the field the night of the third. Scores of
newspaper reporters were on hand. The proper journalistic
attitude in those days was that radio might "do the stunts"
but when it came to the real stuff the newspaper was the
thing!


This was to be a big broadcast, the biggest ever, so far. The
report, short-waved from the "Flying Telephone Booth,"
would be picked up at Hadley Field and not only rebroadcast
to the CBS chain, but short-waved to Germany; direct lines
would also carry it from the field to the city desks of every
newspaper and press service in the United States. I was to
scoop the reporters by flying out to meet the dirigible, competing
with them with an immediate and international
audience. It was a large assignment. I was scared.


Planning, eating, drinking went on till well after midnight
of the third. When it finally broke up, the pilot told me to be
ready to fly at 6:00 A.M.


Breakfast for all of us except the pilot was whisky sours,
and I began to wonder if I were altogether sure about him.


Even without the passenger's two hundred pounds the
Fairchild was overloaded with the bulky sending and receiving
equipment. The take-off required two or three attempts;
you could hear the creak and groan of the protesting plane,
a worrisome thing. The newspapermen stood by in a huddle,
waving, cheering, and I think laughing.


The pilot circled the field twice to gain altitude, then set
off for the Jersey shore. I was to check our position with the
studio from time to time and report anything I saw that was

[p. <i>134</i>]

But the <i>Graf</i> was late, and when we ran into a series of high,
huffing winds, it didn't help either. Soon the pilot yelled,
"Running out of gas; have to land somewhere, gas up." He
picked Lakehurst, where the <i>Zeppelin</i> was going to moor.


I relayed the word to the studio. "Dammit! If you take time
to do that, you'll miss the <i>Graf!</i>" roared some earth-bound
character, as if we had any choice. I cut off the studio.


In the confusion the studio failed to notify the radio pickup
men at Lakehurst that we were taking time out, with the
result that while we were being gassed up, and seizing the
opportunity to stretch our legs in the sun at the far end of
the field, the crew at the hangar, finding themselves out of
communication with me, assumed we were in trouble, doubtless
by this time down in the Atlantic. Hints of this got on
the air, as I learned later, reaching my wife, who, to ease her
anxiety and be a little closer to the scene, had decided to come
out to the field.


We took the air again; again the pilot began combing the
skies. Happily the troublesome winds had hurried elsewhere,
the sky was like an empty attic except for fringed scatterings
of summer cumulus; no sign of the <i>Graf</i>.


I re-established communication with the around crew and
the studio. Balancing my two hundred pounds on a bucket
seat, I combed my brain for things to say as I made my second
air report. "We have refueled and are heading southeast; I
can see the coast line, and two ships at sea, but no sign of the
<i>Graf Zeppelin</i> as yet. Stand by, please; I'll be back as soon as
anything happens."


As I look back on the next little while, it is no wonder to
me that in those days the faraway look in the eye, the thinning
hair, the constant, tense search for respite were the trade-mark
of the radio announcer, superinduced by punishing
pressures, split-second schedules, piano-wire nerves.


The pilot was growing irked by the skyful of nothing. Up
to around 10,000 feet, down to 3,500where were you supposed

[p. <i>135</i>]

Between brief, reassuring contacts with the station, I
scribbled notes. Fortunately people flying around in the sky
were still sufficiently fantastic to the general public to make
good subject matter.


Just when I was beginning to wonder whether, with this
assignment, I had the dud of the ages in my lap, the pilot
reached over and gave me two quick slaps on the back, jerking
a thumb. Off to the northwest the <i>Graf Zeppelin</i> was a
great cigar sheathed in silver foil. As she floated slowly and
majestically inbound, the sun poured a bright wash over her
gleaming bulk.


The pilot of the "Flying Telephone Booth" banked
around, dropping down to a position alongside the dirigible.
For all the fiction about pilots, that they were unearthly creatures
incapable of emotion and without nerves, this one,
excited to have hit the mark, let himself fly so close to the
gondola in which Dr. Eckener stood that when he opened a
sliding window panel and I did the same, hollering greetings,
I felt as though I could reach out and shake hands. What the
studio relayed as the voice of Dr. Hugo Eckener, greeting
the world from American shores, must actually have been a
blend of whirring propellers and eddying winds; I did speak
to him, however, passing on what I read from his lips to
millions of listeners.


Back at Hadley Field, mission completed, the celebration
lasted out the day and night. Assignments missed? Who
cared! My voice had carried to new distances, new millions;
bring on your letdowns!


It was exciting, too, when we made appearances at the
annual radio and electrical shows throughout the country,
at Cleveland, Pittsburgh, Atlantic City, Philadelphia, St.

[p. <i>136</i>]

During one return trip party I concentrated on my Russian
artists. Zenaida Nicolina decided between sips of vodka to
teach me all the Russian words of my favorite song, "Dark
Eyes." With such a nice teacher and such a good student, it
took most of the night.


In our world of radio the trouble was that there was no
such thing as week ends in which to rest and recuperate,
relax normally, leap lightly over the fences of moderate indulgence,
and return to work quieted and refreshed. On the
air, holidays were the busiest days of all, for then audiences
were larger. Unlike the average citizen, who could spend a
little time relaxing, do a bit of harmless imbibing, and even
while the effects were still wearing off turn in at least a
halfway decent job, with us in radio nothing would do but a
steadily maintained excellent best; anything else would
show. Actually, for health's sake, gaps between shows were
too short, too irregular.


So it developed, during these whirlwind radio days of
1929 and 1930, that a great deal of the time while I worked
I drank. The dangerous thing was that it was not the social
kind of drinking other people could and did do. High tension,
full schedules, one show treading on the heels of the
rehearsal for the nextthere was no time for the effects of
drinking to run their normal physiological course, dissipating
themselves naturally. I made the dangerous discovery that I
could pull myself up by the bootstraps to some semblance of
stability with three or four drinks. Three? Four? Or was it
five? Anyhow, the habit pattern grew serious, not only because
of an ever present chance that I might count wrong,
take more than the one (or two, or three?) drinks I counted
on to turn me back to reasonable steadiness, but because as
the drinking increased, I felt driven to hide it.


I was at the brink of terrible knowledge about myself.
Whereas other men could say casually, "I guess I'll step out
and have a drink before the show," go, and come back in

[p. <i>137</i>]

Deception does things to the mind. It undermines your
self-esteem, your confidence in yourself. My financial status
was healthy enough; I had moved to a beautiful new apartment
building just off Lexington Avenue on East Fifty-second
Street. My work, my popularity, my fan mail were
the gossip of the radio industry, yet these days and nights I
walked with a terrifying companionthe handwriting on the
wall. In the midst of public approbation and seeming security,
I knew that I was doing slipshod work at times, and for
it I was being paid in self-accusation and disquiet. Too
often, knowing I could not possibly get through a show, I
clutched at the easy excuse of laryngitis. Yet there were the
times, too, when the devil-may-care Brokenshire recklessly
forced his luck, doing all the wrong things, indulging in all
the capers, childishly taking comfort in somehow making
everyone like it!


CBS moved from its divided quarters to the brand-new
building at 485 Madison Avenue, with studios and offices
built to specifications for a future whose growth seemed limitless.
With my many shows the station seemingly overlooked
the soft spots in their fair-haired announcer's performance.
As with the bad boy whose antics go undisciplined, since I
had got away with things thus far, as the months went by
the mischief tended to be multiplied; the problem grew more
rather than less.


From my sponsor I got one of the Tower electric vibrators,
and trying to fill idle moments too full to allow for pranks
and reverting to my love of the mechanical, I converted the
vibrator to a compact combination saw, drill, and sander; it

[p. <i>138</i>]

My mother came from Canada to pay a visit over the
Christmas holidays. For nearly a week I was careful to walk
the straight and narrow so that she would not suspect there
was any problem. But human nature is perverse and contradictory.
On New Year's Eve I took Mother, Eunice, her
father and sisters to a big rink over on Broadway for an
evening's ice-skating fun. On the way home, leaving them
for a moment just before the bells began ringing in 1930, I
went into a store and bought beautiful long tapering white
candles for us all. I lit and distributed them, and "just for
fun" we formed a little parade, which I led, singing as we
marched toward home, "Should auld acquaintance be forgot."
It brought smiles to a few faces as we trouped a long
block and across Fifth Avenuebut the next day the incident
was being told by people in the business as proof that
Brokenshire was a pretty sad case.


My mother's visit had a painful ending. On New Year's
Day I was slated to take Henry Burbig, the Coral Islanders,
Dale Wimbrow, Nick Kenny, and some other entertainers
down to Tom Noonan's Mission on the Bowery in Chinatown,
to brighten things up for the derelicts.


Between five o'clock, when we helped to serve coffee and
doughnuts to the men, and dawn when I got home, something
happened. Who I was with, what caused me to forget
my filial duty, what could have caused me to throw overboard
the conscientious effort I had been making, I have no idea.
When I woke up the next noon, incredible stories were told
methat I had been brought in by a taxi driver and a policeman,
my clothes torn and bloody, everything I had with me
gone, money, jewelry, papers. I knew I had broken the
hearts of the two women closest to me. More than this, in
some groping way I knew that at last I must do something
about <i>me</i>, for now I had reached the point where I couldn't
remember anythingnot only what had happened, but where
and how it started.


The next three days were a nightmare of anxiety and
despair. Everything I had accomplished seemed worthless.

[p. <i>139</i>]

Drink to sustain me I must have. But the combination of
physical and mental sickness I was experiencing now exceeded
anything I had ever heard of or imagined. At no other
time had such visions of black hopelessness engulfed me.
Pride of independence and possession were nothing now;
I hated the things I owned; they tied me to a place I didn't
want to be. Joy of accomplishment had soured, for I no
longer seemed to be the man who had accomplished them.
The clean, happy Canadian boy was dead; in his place,
masquerading under his name, was an unnerved hulk
who belonged among those derelicts he had so recently
entertained.


I squirmed, I cheated, I lied, just to get out of the house,
away from the drawn faces and inquiring eyes, to get another
drink. All of the man I had been was changed to a quaking,
fearful travesty whose unsteady feet and shaking hands were
the outward signs of a man whose only desire now was not
to think.


I hated to face even the man behind the bar. I resented
him. How could he, with all that liquor within reach, be so
normal, smiling, and easygoing? Here was I, a man who had
touched the heights, envying this nobody who was capable
of pouring whisky from a bottle into a glass without spilling
it; he was a man with a place to go, doubtless possessed of a
happy home, a wife and children who loved him and were
loved in return, a man with a future to look forward to; I
hated him.


I hated him and all the other people who could walk confidently
along the streets, confidently meeting the eyes of
their fellow men.


Two fast drinks, with a quick chaser to hold them down
...the third drink, a little slower...the cold sweat dried
away.... Two drinks and ten minutes later my hands had
ceased trembling. I could think.


I stared at myself in the garishly decorated mirror. I stared
into my glass, seeking the answer. What is this crazy stuff?

[p. <i>140</i>]

I pushed the glass across the bar to be filled. "It's poison,
bud, but pour me a double." I drew the glass toward me, and
I thought of the vaudeville act seen years before: the actor,
ragged in a sickly green spotlight, clutching a whisky bottle
to his breast, winding up the poem about a drunkard, "I
hate youno, I <i>love you</i>, Mr. Booze!"


When I got back, Mother had left, gone home.


Nothing you can write or say can describe the pitiful
heroism of a wife who will stand by in the face of blow on
blow, humbling herself to nurse a drunk, praying faithfully,
clinging to the better qualities that, having showed themselves
before, she fervently believes are still there.


In the unhappy hours and days that it took me to get well
again I knew in slow sequence complete, abject helplessness,
fear of getting well, having to face people, the humiliation
of accepting help undeserved, the stirring again of strength
and with it the birth of hope, the ability to eat and sleep
again, a lessening of black morose thoughts, hammering
down every effort, and finally the ability to work, and the
feeling that must come to a drowning man when he is
rescued. And while I promised myself silently that that was
the <i>last</i>, I'd never take another drink, I knew deep down in
my heart that I was whipped by alcohol.


Resuming my various commitments at CBS, I was stopped
by people saying, "Sorry to hear you were sick, Broke; glad
to see you back." There were questions in others' eyes as
they said hurriedly, "How're you feeling now?" I felt the
unasked questions particularly among those who had been
pressed into service to replace me. Some others were merely
a little contemptuous. Once C. Marsh Bosworth, a producer
and good friend also, wondered aloud to me if I hadn't better

[p. <i>141</i>]

The routine check-up told me nothing I didn't already
know. But then the doctor talked at length about what could
happen if I kept up an excess of drinking. He did it in such
a way that I was all the more determined to do something.
From friends in whom I could confide somewhat, I heard
of a Dr. Caroline Findlay who had a different approach
to the problem of uncontrolled drinking, a new method of
treatment.


Her examination differed from the other and included a
test of the nervous system and blood stream. The outcome
was that she started me on what she called the "sugar cure."
Based on the fact that in the system alcohol turns to sugar,
it pursued the theory that a craving for alcohol could be
controlled by substituting in the system an excess of dextrose,
a quickly absorbed, easily assimilated form of sugar.


Personally I felt no great faith in the method and in my
own case saw no immediate effects. Heartened though by my
own decisive understanding that I did have a serious problem
and a determination to do something about it, I was
glad to follow her recommendations. How much the power
of suggestion figured I don't know, but soon I was running
on all twelve cylinders again, doing the kind of job that had
earned me my reputation.


Radio was really dressed up now, big business compared
with the office-draped-in-monk's-cloth days of WJZ on Forty-second
Street. Now studios were commodious and high-ceilinged,
floors especially constructed of cork tile, walls of
acoustical tile, angled so that sound waves could not bounce
from artist to wall and back to the microphone. Each studio
boasted a drinking fountain, toilets five steps away from the
outer doors, and as complete air conditioning as was known
at that time. Alongside the control room was a foyer where
producer, announcer, artists, engineers, could consult without
interfering with the broadcast. The control room was
smaller than before, because less equipment was required

[p. <i>142</i>]

The studio I used for the "Old Man Sunshine" program
was the size of an ordinary living room and would accommodate
piano and violin recitals, instrumental trios and
quartets, or a small cast of actors doing a skit or soap opera
around a single standing mike. The larger studios accommodated
full orchestras and variety shows with casts of twenty
to thirty people. Audiences as an adjunct to broadcasting
were not yet planned, but there were some larger studios
that on occasion could be equipped with fifty or a hundred
chairs where invited guests might sit quietly out of the way,
observing in wonder what a radio show looked like at its
point of origin.


The engineering and operating staff that made all these
things flow smoothly now numbered in the hundreds. One
whole department did nothing but schedule announcers,
gather mimeographed scripts and instruction sheets, and
place them in individual cubbyholes. The music department
was building an extensive library of numbers and arrangements,
kept fresh and clean for the call of the musical director,
script writers, and producers. The production department
grew large and important; each program had its

[p. <i>143</i>]

You notice that now what used to be called operators have
become engineers. So it was throughout the technical side of
radio; all along the line things were being departmentalized
for efficiency; almost day by day radio was outgrowing its
facilities. Doors were open and elevators running twenty-four
hours a day now, because radio was spotted no longer (as in
early days, on the basis of part-time broadcast hours) but
was a full-time operation, with a day staff and a night staff.
Radio sets had gone down in price and up in quality;
the listening audience was estimated conservatively in the
millions.


It was thrilling to realize that each time a switch was
thrown, this medium, which had begun falteringly as an
experiment, was turned into one of the most powerful instruments
ever placed in human hands. Sets were not only in
the living rooms of the nation; they were in the bedrooms,
the kitchens, in father's workshop down in the cellar, and,
increasingly, in the family automobile. Radio went on picnics
with the teen-agers, to baseball games with Uncle Bill
so that, exercising his divine right of divided loyalty, with
one eye on the Giants he could find out if the Yankees were
doing any better. In certain localities motion-picture houses
interrupted their programs when Amos and Andy came on
the air. Public affairs were scheduled not to suffer empty
halls through collision with a favorite radio program. In
short, radio was now a benevolent giant, towering over
America's millions, dropping from his outstretched hands a
largesse of music, song, laughter, education, news, political
speeches, spiritual messages, drama, satire, bedtime stories,
the correct time, and the best way to cook pot roast.


In the early thirties a few men found themselves in the
enviable position of being famed announcers, with the country
hanging on their every word. Name announcers woke up
the commuter, getting him through breakfast and off to the
office; they cajoled children to school, home for lunch, back
to school in the afternoon. They beguiled the housewife at

[p. <i>144</i>]

Few announcers were interested in turning to the executive
side. Personality, temperament, and training did not
equip them for the mahogany desk, the weighty decisions,
the nine-to-five routine. Their goal was either to become
still bigger in their own forte, or, if they felt a change would
be beneficial, to go into directing or producing. Like the
newspaper reporter who dreams of the day when he will
write the Great American Novel, I guess all announcers
entertained the occupational daydream of one day building
and producing the really big shows. It was this daydream
nibbling at me that had led me to produce the "Coral
Islanders." Round about that time there was a very well-known
program on NBC called the "South Sea Islanders."
It was the only Hawaiian program of any note. Among my
friends was a native-born Hawaiian. I had met him in Forest
Hills. I loved to go to Bill Lincoln's apartment to listen to
him play the guitar and ukulele; from him I learned many
customs and habits of a very colorful people. Bill introduced
me to some other members of a troupe that had been
brought from the islands by Henry Ford, I believe, to play
in the first stage production to feature Hawaiian music, a
story of the islands called <i>Bird of Paradise</i>, which featured
Bessie Bariscale.


As Bill translated for me the meaning of some of the
songs, it occurred to me that this was beautiful poetry and
that here was the making of a Hawaiian show that could in
many ways surpass the popular "South Sea Islanders." With
this in mind I got together the entire native-born group
Walter Kolomuko, Bill Lincoln, Jimmy Bird, and Al Green.
Walter's steel-guitar playing was out of this world, his
handling of the chimes and overtones the perfect background
for the island poetry. I got in touch with Don Blanding, poet
laureate of the islands, and got him to give me pointers that
would enable me to create the authentic Polynesian mood.

[p. <i>145</i>]

I took the idea to Peggy Young, CBS program manager,
and it was auditioned. We were quickly put on the air on a
sustaining basis, Sunday nights at eleven thirty. For me it
signified a thing apart when I entered that studio, dimmed
the lights, and, as the "on the air" sign showed, began rolling
dried peas rhythmically back and forth on a great bass
drum to give the effect of pounding surf. Slowly the ukuleles
and steel guitar would pick up the melody of the theme as I
sang, "I can hear the surf on the beaten sand...and the wind
in the coconut trees.... They bear me away to a fairy land in
far-off tropic seas...." Softly the boys would join in harmony
on the last phrase, then we'd drift into the selection "Beautiful
Isles of Paradise" and be off to a half hour of song and
poetry making for excellent Sunday night entertainment.
I prize many letters that tell of romances born under the spell
of my "Coral Islanders."

