Transcript of Audio File:
______________________________________________________________________________
BEGIN TRANSCRIPT:
THERAPIST: Before I forget, there is one more Friday that I will not be around which is next Friday.
CLIENT: Next Friday?
THERAPIST: (inaudible at 00:00:08)
CLIENT: Okay.
THERAPIST: But I'm otherwise around Thursdays and Fridays. A few days I'm out in August. The middle of August. But I'll double check. I don't think either one is a Thursday or Friday. But I will (inaudible at 00:00:22) about that.
CLIENT: Mm-hmm. Right. And before I forget the — I said that I was not going to be here on the 24
THERAPIST: Yes.
CLIENT: That has changed because my parents are assholes. And now I'm not going to be here on the 17
THERAPIST: Okay.
CLIENT: Maybe the 18
THERAPIST: Okay. Um, all right. I will make note of it.
CLIENT: Three hours after I sent them an e-mail saying, "Confirmed with my boss I can take the 24
But — so there is this trip to China, which I think I vented about last week. But my Dad sent me this really passive aggressive e-mail saying that he couldn't take us on the trip unless I gave him my full legal name. And Dave's full legal name and our birth dates because he needs that to give to the travel agent and blah, blah. I'm like, "You've asked me this twice before. I sent it to you twice before. And now you're—." (sighs) I just — yeah. (pause at [00:02:04] to 00:02:16) And part of me feels bad because I can't seem to summon up any compassion for my parents anymore. Like it used to be that I would defend them to myself. And to Dave. And to Chrissie. [00:02:32]
But I don't know. I just ran out of defenses for their behavior. Or like any ability to feel compassionate for whatever it is that they've been through that made them as warped as they are. Because I don't know. I actually — yeah. I shouldn't have said because, because I didn't have anything to fill in after that. I just don't know. But I'm out. (sighs) (pause at [00:02:59] to 00:03:58)
THERAPIST: What's that like?
CLIENT: A relief really. In a way. [00:04:06]
THERAPIST: Mm. (pause at [00:04:07] to 00:04:35) That you don't have to sort of work on containing yourself? (pause at [00:04:37] to 00:04:51)
CLIENT: I think it's more that I no longer feel kind of this cognitive dissonance going on when I'm angry at them. But I can just be angry and have that be okay. [00:05:12] (pause until 00:06:01)
THERAPIST: It seems like you're sort of thoughts or associations are like a little more halting on this. [00:06:13]
I mean as we're talking I guess I wonder — (pause at [00:06:17] to 00:06:34). I wonder if that's also because it makes you a bit anxious in some ways to talk about it? What you're describing is it being a relief.
CLIENT: Mm-hmm.
THERAPIST: Um, but it seems also as though less is coming to you to say.
CLIENT: Mm-hmm.
THERAPIST: It's not that I'm doubting the feeling of relief. It makes sense to me. [00:07:15]
CLIENT: Mm-hmm.
THERAPIST: Even if it didn't I wouldn't doubt it. But (laughing) the (inaudible at 00:07:27) doesn't convey the feeling of relief.
CLIENT: Mm. I don't know. I've also got lots of other stuff on my mind.
THERAPIST: Oh.
CLIENT: I wasn't planning on coming in and talking about my parents.
THERAPIST: Oh okay. Sure whatever (inaudible at 00:07:41).
CLIENT: But it is irritating that they changed the dates on me.
THERAPIST: Yeah.
CLIENT: But I think with my parents I'm mostly just exhausted with their bullshit. And maybe it's not so much relief as just I'm too tired to summon up (laughs) all of these conflicting emotions about them because that takes a lot of energy. [00:08:08]
THERAPIST: (laughs) Mm-hmm.
CLIENT: And I just —
THERAPIST: Don't have it.
CLIENT: Yeah. There is just — so what's going? There's more bullshit with my priest. She's — I made a kind of snarky comment but it's true. My life hasn't been this full of just needless interpersonal drama since I was like twenty and living in a co-op of other twenty year olds. (chuckles)
THERAPIST: Yeah.
CLIENT: And it's just — (sighs). It's absurd. And it's exhausting. And there's been a bunch of stuff happening in the evangelical Christian world. People — the book is coming out. And people making public appearances. And I try not to pay too much attention to that because it just makes my blood boil. There is not a whole lot I can do. But some of my friends have been talking about it. And that — just (inaudible at 00:09:12) apologism and slavery apologism and all about white supremacy. And it's just really ugly. [00:09:20]
And so I've been having a lot of really intense conversations with other liberal Christians about the role of Christianity in politics in the U.S. And what bad theology does both on a personal and a political level. And so that's just been really emotionally exhausting. And I'm constantly on my case about work. About goofing off too much at work. Not focusing enough. I know the answer is just to be disciplined about not opening Twitter or Facebook at work and just having that be off limits. [00:10:06]
But I get really anxious when I don't know what people are saying. I'm used to having that constant feed of information. And it just really makes me anxious and upset when I shut that down. But there is that. And then there is —. All these computer games that I spend so much time on when I'm at home. And it's really frustrating to me because at the end of the night, like eleven eleven-thirty, I'm really angry and frustrated with myself that I didn't do any of the things that I wanted to do after work.
And then I get down on myself. And it's almost become a ritual of the sobbing and self-flagellating and self-hatred. And it's just it's exhausting for me. It's exhausting for Dave. And I don't know how to short-circuit that. Because I have a list of things that I'd like to get done in the next couple of weeks. [00:11:13]
There is a review for a book for a group blog that I belong to that I need to get up. And you know I've been meaning to get back into learning Spanish now that my thesis is done. I took a break. And I just haven't sat down to hit the books. And really it's — given how much time I've been goofing off I could easily find a half-hour a day to study and listen to language tapes. But I don't. And I end up playing these games for hours. And not reading books that I want to read. And not working on my writing projects. And it's just so frustrating. So I don't know. There is a lot there. [00:12:03]
THERAPIST: Yeah. (pause at [00:12:06] to 00:13:29) (inaudible) I'm not yet sure what to say to about it. I mean it's certainly a lot to do with anger. Rage. [00:13:36]
CLIENT: Mm-hmm.
THERAPIST: But I'm not yet [sure] what to make of it. (pause at [00:13:55] to 00:14:22)
CLIENT: My Dad totally glorifies anger. And when I was growing up he would often talk about how anger was the only way he got out of the refugee camps and made a life for himself. Anger was what fueled him and what kept him going. And that's kind of maladaptive in middle class America. [00:14:47]
But I totally see where that would've been helpful to him where he was coming from. But I feel like — I have all of this kind of unformed anger which doesn't really have a valid target. It's just kind of like floating around in my psyche just waiting for something to latch onto?
THERAPIST: Mm-hmm.
CLIENT: And so any excuse to find a hook and kind of — I don't know. Get into a feedback cycle and grow. I don't know. Am I even making any sense? I don't know if I am. [00:15:48]
THERAPIST: Mm-hmm.
CLIENT: (sighs) And I mean there is so much stuff in the world that you could be angry about where anger is certainly a valid and justifiable response.
THERAPIST: Right.
CLIENT: But I don't want my whole life to be defined by the things that make me angry. Especially since more often than not I'm angry at myself more than anything else. And —but I do wish I could find a way to short circuit the addictive behaviors. The gaming and the constantly refreshing Facebook for new updates. [00:16:41]
THERAPIST: Right.
CLIENT: And actually focus some of that energy on things I want to do. Like every time I read something that makes me really angry about right wing Christians — just to use this for an example. I think you know I've had this plan in the back of mind to — actually my priest stopped inviting me to give guest sermons at my church. (laughs)
Because I gave one that made her a little bit too uncomfortable about her own her privilege on Absalom Jones (inaudible at 00:17:27). Absalom Jones was a slave who bought his freedom and then became a preacher. And he and Bishop Allen — what was Allen's first name? I can't remember. Bishop Allen started a church for freed blacks in Philadelphia. And then Allen and Jones had a falling out. And Allen founded the African Methodist Episcopal denomination. The AME church. [00:17:51]
THERAPIST: (inaudible) big denomination?
CLIENT: It's a pretty big denomination.
THERAPIST: Yeah.
CLIENT: And then Jones chose to stay in the Episcopal Church. And that was why they had the falling out. Allen felt that they couldn't work within the system and Jones thought they could. Anyway I was invited to preach on Absalom Jones' saint day. And you know you're preaching on a slave who bought his own freedom and you know. And it was a little uncomfortable for the white people in the congregation. I haven't been invited back to preach since then. (laughs)
But no every night I read something that makes me angry about just bad theology and right wing churches in the U.S. I think — you know I should actually launch this project I've been thinking of. I have three other friends. All women of color. One of whom is actually an ordained minister in her denomination. And we had this plan to start a group blog with Sunday sermons and theological discussion. And it hasn't happened because we're all busy and I keep being distracted. You know, sitting in the frothy part of the rage instead actually channeling that into —. [00:19:04]
THERAPIST: Something more productive?
CLIENT: Something more — yeah. Something more productive. Something more active rather than reactive. And when I'm not sitting there sputtering with my friends in chat or social media or whatever, I'm anesthetizing myself really with these stupid games that aren't even challenging or interesting.
THERAPIST: I wonder how much of the sort of — I guess I want to be clear. I'm not at all taking issue with all that's out there that you're referring to to be angry about. [00:20:06]
CLIENT: Mm-hmm.
THERAPIST: But I'm wondering if one way it can function for you at times, as I strongly suspect it did for your father as well, is to sort of allow you to avoid a kind of vulnerability that you also feel quite strongly.
CLIENT: Maybe.
THERAPIST: Like — I mean it seems quite natural and expectable to be furious at right wing Christian or so called Christian groups for the both political and personal agendas that they pursue. [00:21:23]
CLIENT: Mm-hmm.
THERAPIST: I would think it's also scary that there is so much of that out there.
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: And that it can make you sort of feel some risk. Or a kind of vulnerability.
CLIENT: Mm-hmm.
THERAPIST: And same at your church I think.
CLIENT: Mm.
THERAPIST: Again like I would — I'm not saying your (inaudible at 00:21:57) is misplaced. That's not what I mean. Only that maybe the part of it that I think you're describing as being at times a bit compulsive or like —.
CLIENT: Mm-hmm.
THERAPIST: Or it's anger looking for somewhere to go.
CLIENT: Right.
THERAPIST: Might have something to do with feeling like you're kind of carrying a weapon if you're pissed off. [00:22:20]
CLIENT: Mm. Mm-hmm. (pause at [00:22:23] to 00:22:42)
THERAPIST: And I'd always thought about this the other way around but now I'm actually wondering if some of the procrastinating isn't in part similar. Like you're doing something that will make you angry.
CLIENT: Mm-hmm.
THERAPIST: Rather than putting you in a kind of more vulnerable position as associated with trying to get things done.
CLIENT: Mm-hmm.
THERAPIST: And sort of taking risks that I think that at times entails. (inaudible at 00:23:24)
CLIENT: Right. Because if you don't try you can't fail.
THERAPIST: Right. Or if you fail at least you knew why. You can be furious at yourself for it. [00:23:30]
CLIENT: Mm-hmm. Yeah.
THERAPIST: But that's different. Now we both — like clearly there is some short term thinking involved there but you know —.
CLIENT: (laughs)
THERAPIST: That's how we often think. Or at least—
CLIENT: Right.
THERAPIST: - how we often talk to our therapists about how we think. So in other words what's involved when there is sort of trouble or (inaudible at 00:23:53) deal with.
CLIENT: Mm-hmm. (pause at [00:23:54] to 00:24:42) (inaudible) I'm on this panel called the Unbelievable Book Club.
THERAPIST: Mm-hmm.
CLIENT: Where the (inaudible at 00:24:46) is that you describe a book that doesn't exist. And the panelists then discuss and review it and critique this book. And of course you don't know anything about what the other panelists are going to bring to the panel. [00:24:56]
THERAPIST: What books?
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: Yeah. (inaudible at 00:25:00) Yeah.
CLIENT: So one panelist came up with The Lost Collaborations between Dr. Seuss and other literary, leading lights of his era.
THERAPIST: Uh-huh.
CLIENT: For example his collaboration with Gertrude Stein. Green Eggs and Ham and Ham and Eggs So Green, So Green, So Green. Yeah. (laughs) You know it was great but the fake book that I described by a Pulitzer Prize winning author. (inaudible at 00:25:34) So yeah. Real author, fake book.
THERAPIST: Yeah (inaudible) Turkish.
CLIENT: Egyptian.
THERAPIST: Oh. I got confused. Yeah.
CLIENT: People have been e-mailing me and saying I need to actually write that book now. And I don't know. On one hand, I used to write fiction throughout high school and college. And I stopped because I decided I wasn't creative or something. And also my parents had a role to play in that. They really mocked my literary endeavors pretty viciously. [00:26:24]
I can't remember if I told you this story. I was in the fifth grade, living in Alabama, and I had a neighbor who I had a crush on. (laughs) I mean I don't know if he was actually gifted or not. I mean we were eleven but he took piano lessons and really loved music. And we had this plan that we would become a musical group. And I would write the lyrics and he would write the music. And so I was meeting up with him one afternoon after school to give him a set a lyrics for songs I had written. And my parents caught me. And dragged me inside with — you know I was like three sheets of really, really bad love song poetry. [00:27:18]
THERAPIST: Uh-huh. Like an eleven year old would write?
CLIENT: Sure. I mean —
THERAPIST: Yeah.
CLIENT: And then like my Mom showed it to my Dad. And he was like, "Why are you sending these love messages to the boy across the street? People will think you're a slut. People will think you're having sex. Stop acting like a whore." And they stood me in the middle of the living room and made me stand there while they read it out loud.
THERAPIST: Oh God.
CLIENT: And told me — well not only made fun of the literary merit of the poems. Which I mean I was eleven. Of course nothing I wrote had literary merit. But and then berated and humiliated me for writing love poetry to a boy. And just — (sighs). And of course I might have had a crush on him but it certainly wasn't — the songs weren't consciously written to him or about him. We had this crazy plan. [00:28:22]
THERAPIST: Right.
CLIENT: But anyway. So I lied through my teeth and told my parents that a friend of mine had written them and just asked me to hand them over on her behalf because she knew I lived next door to this boy. And I didn't actually — I don't remember why I did this but when I had written them I had used a fake handwriting. I had deliberately — that was something of a hobby of mine at the time.
THERAPIST: Oh yeah?
CLIENT: Just practicing different styles of handwriting.
THERAPIST: Uh-huh.
CLIENT: So I had a repertoire of like five different styles that mimicked my classmates' handwriting styles. And so I just lied through my teeth that a friend wrote it. And said, "Look at it. It's not my handwriting." And you know. And so my mother sent me to get more of my school notebooks so they could do a handwriting comparison. And they were like, "It's not her handwriting. She must be telling the truth." (sighs) So anyway. (laughs) Yeah I wrote through high school. I had an English teacher who submitted my work to various literary magazines. [00:29:38]
THERAPIST: I think I remember that. And it was like overseas.
CLIENT: Mm-hmm. And then I stopped. I took a writing class my freshman year of college with a [fanta] sci-fi author, who is a professor at Harvard. And I took his writing class. And I did very poorly in it because I was a freshman. And I hadn't had any real experience with intense professional writing workshops or (inaudible at 00:30:05) sessions. And most of the other students in the class were seniors or grad students. So I was out of my depth.
THERAPIST: Yeah.
CLIENT: And I was not prepared for a real (inaudible at 00:30:14) session from someone who was not my high school English teacher. (laughs)
THERAPIST: Right.
CLIENT: So I stopped writing. And I don't know. I'd kind of like to write again. And I don't know how much of that is because I actually want to write versus I have so much admiration for friends of mine who are writers. [00:30:33]
And I kind of have this idea that quote unquote being a creative person is so much better and more amazing than — I don't know — just having a day job. Design computer chips. That's my day job. There's really no just about it. It's certainly quite an achievement and does require some level of creativity. But anyway. I've got this idea of creating art on this pedestal in my mind. It's like something that the cool kids do that I can't.
THERAPIST: Right. (pause at [00:31:09] to 00:31:31)
CLIENT: And of course the story (inaudible at 00:31:32) that I came up with would require quite a bit of research to do justice to because it involves —
THERAPIST: What is it? [00:31:35]
CLIENT: The idea is that some well meaning but completely ignorant American feminists decide that the situation in the Middle East is so terrible because of patriarchal religions and you know religions that have a male God. So they're going call upon the ancient Goddesses of the Middle East things to come fix things except that goes horribly, horribly awry. Because of course (inaudible at 00:32:02) and Ishtar are Goddesses of death and destruction and war and chaos. And they're not really the ones you want to call upon. (laughs)
THERAPIST: (laughs) I dialed the wrong number.
CLIENT: Yeah. (laughs) So yeah. Supernatural horror.
THERAPIST: Ensues.
CLIENT: Ensues, yeah. So of course there would have be — I'd have to do quite a bit of background reading on 20
And not that I'm — not that I think that that's beyond my ability but that it's — academically it's not beyond my ability. But in terms of ability to motivate myself and not just get sucked into addictive games might be a little bit of a challenge.
THERAPIST: I see. (pause at [00:33:07] to 00:33:48) It sounds like it is fun to think about though.
CLIENT: Yeah. (pause at [00:33:50] to 00:35:18)
THERAPIST: I guess I feel like you were in part quite directly responding to my thought about like anger and vulnerability. [00:35:33]
CLIENT: Mm-hmm.
THERAPIST: In that — I mean one aspect of how I heard what you were saying was like, "Yeah look what happens when I put myself out there. I want to."
CLIENT: Right.
THERAPIST: "Like it appeals to me. I think it's cool. I have that in me. But here's how it got beaten, frightened out of me." Or not out of you but —
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: Quashed.
CLIENT: Into hiding.
THERAPIST: Yeah.
CLIENT: Yeah I think — that's why I brought up the story with my parents. (inaudible at 00:36:25) And then I got sidetracked with the other stuff. [00:36:28]
THERAPIST: Sure. Yeah.
CLIENT: But yeah it's — I almost feel like I was groomed to be angry. Starting from really early childhood and so it's not necessarily that anger is more natural or easier it's just that I've had more practice with anger.
THERAPIST: There is some — it kind of feels that way to me too. The way you talk about your Dad sometimes. That in addition to being crazy and abusive like that he was sort of desperately trying to teach you a lesson to help you stay safe.
CLIENT: Mm-hmm. Right.
THERAPIST: In a very dangerous and very terrible world. [00:37:23]
CLIENT: Right but (sighs) — that. The way he went about it was horribly misplaced because teaching your child how to be nothing but angry — possibly if I was living in a refugee camp being trained to be angry at everything would have served me well. But it doesn't serve me well living in upper middle class life.
THERAPIST: Unquestionably. And I bet there were better things that you would have (inaudible at 00:37:56) been taught even if you had been living in a refugee camp.
CLIENT: (laughing) Right.
THERAPIST: I'm certainly not trying to stand up for what he did.
CLIENT: No. No. I understand that. I'm just —
THERAPIST: Just pissed off about it.
CLIENT: Yeah. I want to say this stuff to his face but then that just leads to drama. And my mother and my sister yelling at me about how I'm an ungrateful daughter. And do you want Dad to kill himself? And how could you be so mean to him? [00:38:31]
It's just not worth the effort. I guess in some way what I really want is validation that the way I feel is correct. Which I mean I understand is not a terribly useful thing to seek because feelings aren't correct or incorrect. They just are. They're what you feel. But — (sighs). (pause at [00:39:08] to 00:39:17)
THERAPIST: You mean you want that about the things you're angry about or you want that from him? And that's why you want to tell him? Even if he wouldn't get it? [00:39:23]
CLIENT: Well I think — you said something about my Dad trying to prepare me for life.
THERAPIST: Yeah.
CLIENT: And I don't know. I think that was almost treating you as if you were a straw man representing my Dad.
THERAPIST: Sure.
CLIENT: And argue against you in the sense that if I could convince you that I'm right that would be —
THERAPIST: Ah. Oh okay. I see now what your response (inaudible at 00:39:50).
CLIENT: Almost the same as convincing Dad that I'm right and he was messed up.
THERAPIST: I see. Yeah.
CLIENT: I don't know. (pause at [00:40:03] to 00:40:17) It's a pointless thing to do because I'm pretty sure you agree with me that Dad's behavior was less than ideal. (chuckles)
THERAPIST: Yes.
CLIENT: To be gentle about it.
THERAPIST: Yeah. I certainly do. But I guess you're giving me half of your own experience of your point of view. [00:40:51]
CLIENT: Mm-hmm.
THERAPIST: Which is you know the part that still needs to be convinced.
CLIENT: Mm-hmm.
THERAPIST: Or that might doubt. Or that you want affirmation from.
CLIENT: Mm-hmm. (pause at [00:41:07] to 00:42:14)
THERAPIST: That side of it makes me think — (pause at [00:42:16] to 00:42:26). Like I said I don't want to get too into the intellectual neatness of it because it's interesting but not as important as the emotional side of it. But it's almost as though you were kind of — it was a like a move towards something and it's opposite at the same time there? Where on one hand the content of your statement was very critical of your father. [00:42:52]
CLIENT: Mm-hmm.
THERAPIST: And at the same time you were looking for reassurance from me. But I wonder if that's not that far a displacement from him?
CLIENT: Mm-hmm.
THERAPIST: Where you're both like angry and critical, like furious, and (inaudible at 00:43:30) of course about a lot of the ways that he treated you. But at the same time maybe also wanting to show him you've learned his lessons well or correctly at some level. Or wanting affirmation and confirmation from him. (pause at [00:43:47] to 00:44:03) About having (inaudible at 00:44:06) be productive and how sort of bad our neighbors in the world can be. [00:44:09]
CLIENT: Mm-hmm.
THERAPIST: I mean that's not entirely if you think about but I think there are some ways it's true. And there are some ways it feels that way.
CLIENT: Right.
THERAPIST: We should stop for now.
CLIENT: Yup.
THERAPIST: But we'll talk more tomorrow. [00:44:27] [End of audio]
END TRANSCRIPT
