<font size="4"><b>35: Psychoeducational and Counseling Groups to Prevent and Treat Eating Disorders and Disturbances</b></font>

CYNTHIA R. KALODNER<br />
<i>Towson University</i>


JANELLE W. COUGHLIN<br />
<i>Johns Hopkins University</i>


Groups of various types are widely used
to prevent and treat individuals with
eating disorders and disturbances. Not
only do groups provide cost-effective prevention
and treatment that reaches large numbers of
people (an important feature, since eating issues
appear to be increasing for both men and
women), they are a highly effective method of
providing prevention and treatment (Fettes &amp;
Peters, 1992; Polivy &amp; Federoff, 1997). The
therapeutic factors of groups may be especially
useful in helping clients work through issues
typically associated with eating disorders. For
example, the secret, shameful, and chronic
nature of an eating disorder contributes to
the client's sense of isolation, whereas groups
offer the support of peers, multiple models of
competency, reality testing, and opportunities
for altruism (Oesterheld, McKenna, &amp; Gould,
1987; Zimpfer, 1990). Groups reduce secrecy
and shame associated with eating problems,
supply a place for talking about the kinds of distorted
beliefs and self-perceptions with others
who are also facing eating disorders, and provide
an interpersonal context to facilitate links
between eating disorders and relationships
(Laberg, Tornkvist, &amp; Andersson, 2001).


Groups provide an opportunity for participants
to challenge some of their unreasonably
high standards and create self-expectations
that are based on a less distorted view of reality.
For example, many women with an eating

[p. <i>482</i>]

In a qualitative study of participants'
reactions to group treatment for bulimia nervosa
(BN), Laberg et al. (2001) interviewed
seven participants who completed a cognitive-behavioral
therapy group with an interpersonal
focus. Many aspects of the group experience
were noted as important to the members.
Several were unique to groups, such as connecting
with others who were struggling with
the same problem, feeling the support from
members of the group, and learning to trust
each other. These qualitative data are important
because they highlight that group treatment
may work due to the unique approach
associated with a group approach; these facets
of therapy are not found in individual counseling.
Participants indicated that learning that
they were not the only ones living with an
eating disorder provided some relief. They
also noted that being treated in a group provided
opportunities to develop outside relationships
with group members and that these
developed into friendships that continue to
provide support for recovery.


In an attempt to identify those therapeutic factors
that women with BN regard as most important
in their experience of group therapy, Hobbs,
Birtchnell, Harte, and Lacey (1989) questioned
members of an all-female group, ranging in age
from 21 to 30 years, who participated in an eclectic
10-week group counseling intervention.
Participants rated self-understanding, vicarious
learning, universality, and instillation of hope as
the most valued therapeutic factors in the group
experience. Again, these therapeutic factors
are uniquely associated with group counseling
or therapy and may not be relevant in individual
counseling. Self-understanding was related
to the content of group sessions and the emphasis
on increasing participants' awareness about
behaviors, assumptions, motivations, and
thoughts. The other three factors, vicarious learning,
universality, and instillation of hope,
are directly related to the experience of group
treatment.


Meta-analyses of group treatments for
bulimia support the effectiveness of group therapy
(Fettes &amp; Peters, 1992). On average, about
25% of participants were completely abstinent
of bulimic symptoms after receiving at least 9
hours of group therapy, and this rate of abstinence
was maintained for the year following
treatment (Fettes &amp; Peters, 1992). In addition,
the average subject who participated in group
therapy was better than 77% of the same subjects
prior to treatment. They did not find that
the type of treatment, gender of the therapist, or
method of recruiting participants were associated
with the strength of the outcome of treatment
(Fettes &amp; Peters, 1992).


This chapter includes a rationale for the use
of groups to prevent eating disorders and as a
treatment with people who have eating disorders
and disturbances. Next, we present brief
descriptions of the major eating disorders with a
focus on the diagnostic issues that may be useful
to consider when forming a group. We also
discuss questions to guide the planning of
psychoeducational, counseling, or psychotherapy
groups for eating disorders, especially
pertaining to screening potential members, leadership,
and preparation for groups. This chapter
also provides examples of psychoeducational
groups focused on prevention or early intervention
of eating problems and describes cognitive-behavioral
and interpersonal therapy treatment
groups. We discuss selected research related to
eating disorders and eating disorders groups.


In regard to the types of groups defined by
the Association for Specialists in Group Work
(ASGW), the majority of research on groups for
people with eating issues focuses on psycho-educational,
counseling, and psychotherapy
groups. Since many of the issues addressed
in counseling groups overlap with the goals
of psychotherapy groups, these groups are discussed
together. The chapter closes with an
introduction to using short stories in groups for
individuals with eating problems (Van Lone,
Kalodner, &amp; Coughlin, 2002).

[p. <i>483</i>]

DEFINITIONS AND CHARACTERISTICS
OF PERSONS WITH EATING DISORDERS


Definitions


The term <i>eating disorders</i> refers to anorexia
nervosa (AN), bulimia nervosa, and eating disorders
not otherwise specified (EDNOS), a special
category used for people who have eating
disorders that meet most, but not all, of the criteria
for AN or BN (APA, 2000). In addition to
the three major types of eating disorders, there
is a large group of people with eating disturbances
who are dissatisfied with their body
image and practice unhealthy eating practices,
but do not fit the criteria for any eating disorder.
People with eating disturbances may skip meals,
restrict food choices to a few acceptable things,
and avoid foods that contain fat. They may
binge eat occasionally and self-induce vomiting
but do not have an eating disorder. It has been
suggested that eating disturbances occur in
19% to 23% of the general population (Mintz,
O'Halloran, Mulholland, &amp; Schneider, 1997;
Mulholland &amp; Mintz, 2001) and that such disturbances
may progress into eating disorders.


AN is defined by a refusal to maintain a minimally
normal body weight, an intense fear of
weight gain, a disturbance in one's experience of
one's own body weight, and an absence of at
least three menstrual cycles (APA, 2000). Once a
diagnosis of AN is ascertained, the individual is
classified into one of two subtypes: the restricting
type or the binge-eating/purging type. The
restricting type has not engaged in binge-eating
or purging behaviors during the current episode
of AN, while the binge-eating/purging type has
engaged in binge-eating or purging behaviors
during the current episode of AN (APA, 2000).


BN is characterized as recurrent episodes of
binge eating, engagement in compensatory
behaviors to prevent weight gain, and a self-evaluation
that is unduly influenced by body
weight (APA, 2000). The purging subtype is
assigned to individuals who engage in compensatory
behaviors that include self-induced vomiting
and/or misuse of diuretics, enemas, or
laxatives, while those individuals who do not
purge, but compensate by fasting or excessive
exercise, are classified as the nonpurging type
(APA, 2000).


EDNOS is a heterogeneous diagnostic
category for individuals who have eating disorders
but do not meet all the criteria for AN or
BN (APA, 2000). A diagnosis of EDNOS does
not imply minor clinical significance; instead,
such a diagnosis is cause for serious concern
and requires clinical treatment.


Demographics


The prevalence of AN and BN combined are
reported as 0.5% to 1% and 1% to 3% of adolescent
and young adult females respectively
(APA, 2000). EDNOS are more prevalent,
occurring in 4% to 6% of the general population
(Herzog &amp; Delinsky, 2001). Thus, the prevalence
of EDNOS is approximately twice that of
AN and BN. In addition, EDNOS is the appropriate
diagnosis for more than 50% of patients
with eating disorders who present for treatment
(APA, 2000; Striegel-Moore &amp; Smolak, 2001).
Binge-eating disorder (BED), included in the
DSM-IV-TR as an EDNOS, has a prevalence
rate of 15% to 50% of participants in weight-control
programs (with a mean of 30%; APA,
2000). Less is known about the prevalence of
this disorder in the general population.


Cognitive, Behavioral,
and Interpersonal Characteristics


AN, BN, EDNOS, and eating disturbances
share certain diagnostic issues, such as dissatisfaction
with body shape and weight and disturbances
in eating behavior (see Kalodner &amp;
DeLucia-Waack, 2003). Fear about gaining
weight and a negative attitude about weight and
shape are also characteristic of those with eating
disorders. Symptoms of eating disorders and
disturbances are multifaceted in their cognitive
(e.g., weight preoccupation, body dissatisfaction,
drive for thinness, perfectionism, acceptance
of cultural standards of thinness),
affective (e.g., anxiety, feelings of ineffectiveness,
low self-esteem, guilt), and behavioral
components (e.g., purging, food restriction,
binge eating, counting calories and fat, frequent
weighing of self). These cognitive, affective,
and behavioral components are influenced by
interpersonal and sociocultural (e.g., the media,
peers, family) factors. Given the complexity of

[p. <i>484</i>]

GENERAL GUIDELINES FOR
FACILITATING PSYCHOEDUCATIONAL
AND COUNSELING/THERAPY GROUPS


Planning Psychoeducational or
Counseling/Therapy Groups


Psychoeducational and counseling/therapy
groups have different formats, with different
objectives and members with diverse needs;
thus they require different planning. However,
regardless of the type of group, group facilitators
should ask organizing questions as they
plan group interventions. For example, Who are
the participants or members? What symptom(s)
are being treated? What are the severity levels?
Is this a prevention or treatment intervention?
What is the intended outcome? How long are
the group interventions? Are the goals realistic
for the length of the group? The answers to
these questions will allow leaders to consider
the needs of the individuals being served and
choose a group format that appropriately
addresses these needs.


Psychoeducational groups focus on educating
group members about an identified issue or
risk factor that is associated with eating disorders
and reducing the risk or occurrence of that
cognitive, affective, or behavioral component.
For example, the objectives of a psychoeducational
program on the media and its impact on
women might be to increase participants'
awareness of the media's tendency to provide a
distorted representation of women and to reduce
participants' acceptance of societal standards
of beauty (Coughlin &amp; Kalodner, 2003). Polivy
and Federoff (1997) asserted that psychoeducational
groups may be less threatening than therapy
and can be useful for people who have
difficulty engaging in the therapy process and
can prepare them for more intensive individual
or group therapy.


Counseling and psychotherapy groups
are often based on a particular theoretical
model, such as cognitive-behavioral or interpersonal.
Cognitive-behavioral counseling groups
address symptom reduction through increasing
participants' awareness of personal thoughts
and feelings related to eating patterns and introducing
strategies for changing their behaviors
and belief systems. Interpersonal psychotherapy
is based on the idea that understanding the interpersonal
context (relationships that include
family and friends) within which the eating disorder
developed and has been maintained is
necessary for persons to change their eatingdisordered
behavior (Fairburn, Welch, Doll,
Davies, &amp; O'Connor, 1997). Counseling groups
based on the interpersonal therapy model provide
opportunities for participants to adapt to
and master interpersonal situations so the negative
emotions that are associated with relationship
problems.


Group size is dependent on the type and purpose
of group. Psychoeducational groups may
be larger than counseling groups, with numbers
as few as 5 to more than 12 (Polivy &amp; Federoff,
1997). Many school-based psychoeducational
programs operate in classrooms and include
more than 20 people. When groups include
more interaction in addition to didactic presentations,
the group size should be reduced to 5 to
10 participants (Polivy &amp; Federoff, 1997).


Selection of Members
for Psychoeducational
and Counseling/Therapy Groups


There are differing opinions in the field of
eating disorders related to selection of members
for group counseling or psychotherapy; some
believe that groups should be homogeneous
with regard to eating disorder diagnosis, while
others have used mixed groups including people
with AN, BN, and EDNOS (Polivy &amp; Federoff,
1997). For example, some (Hendren, Atkins,
Sumner, &amp; Barber, 1987; Piazza &amp; Steiner-Adair,
1986) allow groups to consist of participants
with all types of eating disorders, while
others intentionally screen for a more homogeneous
group of participants, such that groups
consist of only persons with BN or AN (Hall,
1985; Romano, Quinn, &amp; Halmi, 1994). In their
recommendations for screening for cognitive-behavioral
group psychotherapy for BN,
Romano et al. (1994) suggest including only
those individuals who meet all criteria for BN.

[p. <i>485</i>]

Generally, it is best to avoid admitting group
members who are not motivated and willing
to commit to treatment (Romano et al., 1994).
This is of particular relevance because lack of
motivation and resistance to treatment are
highly common among individuals with eating
disorders and can lead to treatment attrition,
failure, and relapse (Feld, Woodside, Kaplan,
Olmsted, &amp; Carter, 2001). Counseling and therapy
groups generally exclude individuals who
are (a) abusing alcohol or drugs, (b) psychotic,
and/or (c) suicidal (Kirkley, Schneider, Agras,
&amp; Bachman, 1985; Telch, Agras, &amp; Linehan,
2001). Individuals with personality disorders, in
particular borderline personality disorder and
thought disorders, should also be carefully considered
prior to inclusion in group treatment for
eating disorders (Hendren et al., 1987; Romano
et al., 1994).


Although the majority of individuals with
eating disorders tend to be female, males may
also participate in psychoeducational groups
and may present for treatment. Groups that
include both males and females should be carefully
considered, because mixing males and
females can inhibit group participation. In a
psychoeducational group described below
(Phelps, Dempsey, Sapia, &amp; Nelson, 1999),
experience suggested that the males included
did not fully participate; thus the researchers
recommended that future implementations of
the program be devoted to female participants
only. Likewise, many of the topics discussed in
cognitive-behavioral eating disorder groups are
gender specific (i.e., sociocultural issues). It is
appropriate to avoid including both males and
females when these topics will be part of the
group intervention.


Preparation of Members for Groups


People with eating disorders are often
ambivalent about participating in treatment
(Feld et al., 2001), and thus recommendations
about preparing them for groups may be helpful.
People with eating disorders may present for
treatment at the insistence of parents or other
family members, friends, or physicians, and
they may be resistant to change. Feld et al.
(2001) compared people with eating disorders
to those with addictions, indicating that both
groups are often unmotivated to participate in
counseling. It was this recognition that led to the
development of the pretreatment motivational
program, which has its roots in the addictions
field. Feld et al. studied the effects of a pretreatment
motivational enhancement therapy on
individuals with eating disorders (AN, BN, and
EDNOS). The intervention was four hour-long
sessions that focused on "the benefits and costs
of having an eating disorder; predicting life in
5 years with and without an eating disorder; and
life values and goals in relation to an eating
disorder" (p. 196), after which assessments of
readiness to change and other psychological
measures were collected. Participants were
more motivated to change and viewed their
behavior as a problem after the intervention. In
addition, the sessions led to a decrease in
depression, an increase in overall self-esteem,
and a decrease in interpersonal distrust, which
may indicate that the participants are better able
to participate in a therapy experience. Most of
the members entered a treatment program and
indicated that the pretreatment motivation sessions
positively influenced their decision to
enter therapy.


Bowman and DeLucia-Waack (1996) also
described the importance of preparation

[p. <i>486</i>]

LEADER ISSUES


Although the gender of qualified therapists
appears to be of less importance than the gender
of group members (Romano et al., 1994), two
female cotherapists seem to be more common
than a male-female dyad. This may be because
more female leaders have an interest in eating
disorders and are beneficial for group members
because the female coleaders may serve as
healthy role models for girls and women who
have eating disturbances. However, a male-female
cotherapy pair can elicit important
family issues and transference among group
members. Moreno (1998) indicated that a male-female
cotherapy team is ideal because it provides
the opportunity for members to work out
conflicts with both genders. However, he also
indicated that in his psychodynamically oriented
group, his comments were sometimes
rejected, ridiculed, or ignored, while those made
by the female coleader were accepted by the
group. Moreno concluded that group therapy
with people who have chronic eating disorders
is difficult and that therapists are not advised to
work alone. It is our experience that both males
and females can effectively facilitate groups for
eating disorders; instead, it is the presence of the
universal therapeutic factors of group counseling
and therapy (e.g., instillation of hope, group
cohesion) that contribute more to the efficacy of
groups for eating disorders.


It has been noted that counselors working
with clients with eating disorders are impacted
specifically in terms of their relationship with
their food (DeLucia-Waack, 1999; Zerbe,
1993). Counselors of clients who have eating
disorders are frequently influenced by the irrational
and faulty belief systems of the clients;
this means that working with people who have
eating disorders may have an impact on the
self-perceptions of the group leaders (Baumann,
1992; Zerbe, 1993). Furthermore, DeLucia-Waack
indicates that working with clients with
eating disorders may affect counselors' perceptions
of themselves, which in turn affects their
ability to serve as a reality check for their clients
with eating disorders. This highlights the need
for supervision for leaders of groups focused on
eating disorders.


GUIDELINES FOR FACILITATING
PSYCHOEDUCATIONAL GROUPS


Psychoeducational groups provide important
information that can be used to prevent a person
from developing an eating problem or assist
someone who does have a problem by teaching
about the issues related to eating problems
and disorders. These groups often follow a lecture
and discussion format and use structured
material for the group meetings. Many are
focused on prevention or early intervention.
Through psychoeducation, people with eating
disorders and those at risk of developing eating
disorders are provided accurate information to
challenge the misinformation and myths that
those with eating problems may hold. These bits
of misinformation may keep those who have
an eating disorder from changing their behavior.
Psychoeducational groups may also be used as
an adjunct to counseling or psychotherapy for
people with eating disorders. Psychoeducational
programs are also a part of many treatment programs;
cognitive-behavioral programs include
Psychoeducational components as part of treatment
(Stein et al., 2001).


There are many references to the use of psychoeducational
materials as part of a prevention
or treatment program. Garner's (1997) chapter
provides information about the breadth of issues
that should be included in a psychoeducational

[p. <i>487</i>]

1. Multiple causes of eating disorders


2. The cultural context for eating disorders


3. Set-point theory and the physiological regulation
of weight


4. The effects of starvation on behavior


5. Restoring regular eating patterns


6. Vomiting, laxatives, and diuretics in controlling
weight


7. Determining a healthy body weight


8. Physical complications


9. Relapse prevention techniques


In planning psychoeducational groups, the
age and developmental level of the participants
are considered. Most programs are developed
for females at different stages of life, including
the years of elementary school, middle school,
high school, college, mid-20s, and older-ages.
Examples of this type of psychoeducational
group follow, and we provide additional
resources on this topic at the end of this section.


A Prevention Program for
Elementary School-Age Children


Eating Smart, Eating for Me (Smolak, 1999;
Smolak, Levine, &amp; Schermer, 1998) is an excellent
example of a program designed to be used
with children in elementary school. There are six
goals of the program (Smolak et al., 1998, p. 153):
<table>
<tr><td>
<p>
1. To explain the importance of proper nutrition,
including that fat is a nutrient, and to explain
how to use the USDA Food Guide Pyramid to
achieve healthy nutrition.
</p>
</td></tr>
<tr><td>
<p>
2. To encourage healthy, moderate exercise on a
regular basis
</p>
</td></tr>
<tr><td>
<p>
3. To teach students and parents about the diversity
of body shapes
</p>
</td></tr>
<tr><td>
<p>
4. To encourage the development of a positive
body image
</p>
</td></tr>
<tr><td>
<p>
5. To encourage healthy eating rather than
caloric-restrictive dieting
</p>
</td></tr>
<tr><td>
<p>
6. To encourage critical evaluation of media messages
about body shape and nutrition
</p>
</td></tr>
</table>


1. To explain the importance of proper nutrition,
including that fat is a nutrient, and to explain
how to use the USDA Food Guide Pyramid to
achieve healthy nutrition.


2. To encourage healthy, moderate exercise on a
regular basis


3. To teach students and parents about the diversity
of body shapes


4. To encourage the development of a positive
body image


5. To encourage healthy eating rather than
caloric-restrictive dieting


6. To encourage critical evaluation of media messages
about body shape and nutrition


This program has been the subject of several
studies that were designed to assess the outcome
of the prevention program with children aged 9
to 11. In a study published in 2001, Smolak and
Levine found that 2 years after 289 students
participated in the Eating Smart, Eating for Me
program, they were more knowledgeable, used
fewer unhealthy weight management techniques,
and had higher body esteem than adolescents
of the same age in a different school.


A Prevention Program Used With Middle
School- and High School-Age Adolescents


A school-based eating disorder prevention
program developed and tested in middle and
high school is described by Phelps et al. (1999).
This program contains six sessions that focus
on sociocultural pressures, ways to enhance
physical self-esteem, ideas to build personal
competence, methods to reduce body dissatisfaction,
and information about appropriate
methods of weight control. In the final session,
a person recovering from an eating disorder
addresses the group and tells her story about
how she developed her eating disorder and
about her treatment.


In the middle school version, the first sessions
focus on sociocultural pressures. An exercise
that is helpful in the sociocultural area is
looking critically at magazines and discussing
the images and the weight-control messages
that appear. The sessions focusing on physical
self-esteem may allow participants to attend
to the positive aspects of physical appearance.
For example, they may be asked to find and
comment on aspects of themselves that they
do like, such as "I like my hair" or "I always
liked my eyes." Physical fitness is described
as healthy and strong, and participants are
encouraged to find an activity that allows regular
physical exercise. The sessions on building
personal competence are focused on developing

[p. <i>488</i>]

Phelps and her colleagues (1999) studied the
effects of this program on 1,066 middle school
girls and boys aged 11 to 15 and a smaller sample
of 9th to 12th graders. Although the research
did not find statistically significant changes in
the middle school group, the researchers were
encouraged by the nonsignificant reductions in
current use and future intent to use dieting,
excessive exercise, purging, and other unhealthy
methods of weight control.


There are many resources that address
the topic of prevention of eating disorders.
Two excellent books, <i>Preventing Eating
Disorders</i> (Piran, Levine, &amp; Steiner-Adair,
1999) and <i>The Prevention of Eating Disorders</i>
(Vandereycken &amp; Noordenbos, 1998) provide
the foundation for psychoeducational group-based
prevention programs. In addition,
chapters in two newer books (Striegel-Moore &amp;
Smolak, 2001; Thompson &amp; Smolak, 2001)
address prevention issues. In Piran, Levine, and
Steiner-Adair's (1999) seminal textbook on prevention
of eating disorders, there are examples
of prevention programs for elementary and middle
schools and programs used in high school
and college settings.


GUIDELINES FOR
FACILITATING COUNSELING
AND PSYCHOTHERAPY GROUPS


In this section, we describe cognitive-behavioral
and interpersonal counseling and therapy
groups. These groups have been found to be
effective treatments for BN, and there is continued
study of their use with AN and EDNOS.
Most researchers have concluded that cognitive-behavioral
therapy is the most extensively
researched and supported treatment for BN
(Richards et al. 2000; Stein et al., 2001), and
there have been a number of studies demonstrating
the effectiveness of interpersonal
psychotherapy (Fairburn et al., 1993; Wilfley
et al., 1993).


Cognitive-Behavioral Counseling
and Psychotherapy Groups


Cognitive-behavioral therapy (CBT) is a
treatment of choice for BN; it is a gold standard,
meaning that it may be the best treatment available
for this disorder (Chambless et al., 1998;
Stein et al., 2001; Wilson, Fairburn, &amp; Agras,
1997). A 10-year follow-up of women treated
with CBT (with or without an antidepressant) or
a placebo indicated that participants who were
treated with either CBT or an antidepressant had
improved social adjustment compared to those
who had only the placebo treatment (Keel,
Mitchell, Davis, &amp; Crow, 2002). CBT addresses
symptom reduction through increasing participants'
awareness of personal thoughts and feelings
related to eating patterns and introducing
strategies for changing their behaviors and
belief systems. With modifications, CBT developed
for BN may be used to treat EDNOS, especially
BED. CBT has also been used to treat
AN, though there is little research on this topic.
The CBT program for AN contains some of the
same components of the program for treatment
of BN and addresses issues specific to AN, such
as the effects of starvation and the need for
weight gain (Bowers, 2001).


CBT has been used in individual and group
settings for individuals with eating disorders. As
will be seen in the material that follows, CBT as
it is currently administered in a group format

[p. <i>489</i>]

CBT generally includes three stages of treatment:
establishing control over eating behaviors
(Phase 1), identifying and modifying dysfunctional
beliefs that contribute to maladaptive
behaviors (Phase 2), and maintaining change
(Phase 3) (Wilson et al., 1997). The first phase of
CBT is generally more behavioral in nature, with
the main goal of symptom reduction. One technique
used in this phase of treatment is selfmonitoring.
Through daily log entries, eating
patterns are identified by recording time and
location of meals, quantity/type of food, circumstances
surrounding the eating episode (e.g.,
individuals present, mood states), type of eating
episode (e.g., binge, meal, snack), and any
extreme weight control behaviors that were used
(e.g., use of laxatives or purges). In Phase 1,
behavior modification strategies are often introduced
to encourage group participants to experiment
with new eating behaviors. For example, in
a group for individuals with BN, leaders may
instruct participants to eat more regularly
throughout the day, delay time between bingeing
and vomiting, and practice relaxation between
binge episodes and purge episodes. Relaxation
exercises and stress management are an important
part of this phase, providing group members
with strategies for reducing anxiety when faced
with urges to engage in extreme eating behaviors.
For example, group participants are taught to
use relaxation exercises as they increase their
exposure to feared, avoided, and "forbidden"
foods. They are also instructed to use relaxation
techniques after meals, to replace purging
behaviors.


Phase 2 of cognitive-behavioral groups for
eating disorders is more cognitive in nature,
with an emphasis on challenging distorted
beliefs about food, eating, weight, and body
image (Wilson et al., 1997). The goal is to correct
faulty reasoning and erroneous assumptions
that serve to maintain dysfunctional eating
behaviors. For example, the belief that "thinness
leads to happiness" can be challenged and
reconstructed to a more valid and logical statement
that includes other factors that lead to happiness
and reasons why thinness does not
necessarily produce life satisfaction. Such statements
can be discussed within the group, with
an emphasis on elucidating the process by
which distorted thinking leads to eating disorder
symptoms. As group members learn to use cognitive
techniques, they can challenge illogical
and faulty statements that are revealed in the
group and assist one another with creating more
reality-based and logical belief systems. Group
leaders may encourage members to identify and
challenge these unhealthy thoughts when they
hear them in the group, and members can also
suggest other more positive self-statements.


In Phase 3, maintenance, group participants
are encouraged to integrate and to apply the
techniques covered in the first two stages of
group while focusing on continued symptom
reduction and reality-based thinking (Wilson
et al., 1997). This stage, often referred to as
relapse prevention, allows group members to
prepare for setbacks that will occur. Group
members can identify stressful situations that
may trigger their urge to diet, binge, or purge
while arming themselves with plans for managing
such situations. In group sessions, visualization
exercises can be used to prepare participants
for potential events that might put them at risk
for relapse. Group members can be encouraged
to understand that lapses of dysfunctional
eating behaviors are opportunities to learn,
instead of indicators that they will never recover.


Dialectical behavior therapy (DBT), an intervention
that evolved from cognitive-behavioral

[p. <i>490</i>]

Telch et al. (2001) developed a 20-week
treatment program that was adapted from
Linehan's DBT for borderline personality disorder.
Forty-four women who met diagnostic criteria
for BED were assigned to either the DBT
skills-training program or a wait-list control.
Treatment involved an introduction to DBT,
mindfulness skills, emotion regulation skills,
distress tolerance skills, and a review. Results
suggested that DBT is significantly more effective
at reducing binge eating than no treatment.
In fact, in the DBT group, 16 of 18 (89%) participants
were abstinent from binge eating by
the 20th week of treatment. This was very
encouraging when considering that only 2 of 16
(12.5%) participants in the wait-list group had
stopped bingeing. Among those who participated
in the DBT group, 67% were abstinent at
3-month follow-up and 56% at 6-month followup.
It is important to note that DBT, although
derived from CBT, does not directly focus on
eating behaviors. Instead, DBT focuses on
affect and developing skills to manage extreme
emotional states. Telch and colleagues suggest
that DBT may be similar to interpersonal psychotherapy,
an intervention that we discuss in
the following section.


Interpersonal Counseling
and Psychotherapy Groups


Interpersonal psychotherapy (IPT) is based
on the idea that understanding the interpersonal
context (relationships that include family and
friends) from which the eating disorder developed
and has been maintained is necessary for
the person to change their eating-disordered
behavior (Fairburn, 1997). The premise is that
in order to help people stop their eating problems,
it is necessary to find out and understand
fully what is keeping the eating problems going.
As an example, many binges are associated with
an interpersonal trigger, such as an argument
with a friend or family member, or feelings of
loneliness. In IPT there is no attention or direct
discussion about eating habits or behavior.
Instead, the group leader helps the clients to
study their past and present relationships and to
understand how these relationships might be
related to the eating disorder. Fairburn, the
developer of this approach for use with eating
disorders, has written and researched the use of
IPT (Fairburn, 1997; Fairburn et al., 1993) and
suggests that 15 to 20 sessions over 4 or 5
months is necessary to address eating disorders
using this approach.


In the beginning of treatment, the therapist
works to study four different histories: (1) the
eating problem (how it started, dates of first
binge and purge), (2) relationships (family,
friends, peers), (3) other life events and relationships
with others (might include a move,
parental divorce, starting college), and (4) specific
problems with self-esteem and depression.
This information is used to create a life chart
that shows how the eating problem, relationships,
life events, and self-esteem/depression
are related in the life of a person. The information
obtained in the life chart forms the basis for
the discussion in group sessions. There are four
major interpersonal issues that arise in life
charts. Presented in order of frequency in which
they occur, they are interpersonal role disputes
(64%), role transitions (36%), interpersonal
deficits (16%), and grief (12%) (Fairburn,
1997).


In interpersonal psychotherapy, the goal is to
resolve the individual's interpersonal problems
by clarifying the problem in the relationship,
considering the possibilities for changes, and
helping the client to make positive changes in
these relationships. For example, in the category
of role transitions, the issue is usually one of
establishing independence from parents. Other
common transitions include beginning or ending
college, changing jobs, getting married, or
becoming a parent. Group therapists work with
the members of the group to understand the

[p. <i>491</i>]

Less common problems are interpersonal
deficits and grief. Interpersonal deficits refer to
problems that an individual may have in developing
and keeping relationships with people.
Sometimes clients describe a history of being
isolated and not having close friends. In this
case, the group therapist helps the clients to
understand the reason they might be having
trouble forming or keeping relationships.
Sometimes the relationship between the client
and the group members and the group leaders
can be used as a way to understand the development
of important relationships. Grief is an
issue that arises when someone important in the
client's life has died. Facing the loss requires
the client to express feelings about losing an
important person and to adjust to life without
the person who is gone. As the client becomes
less focused on the past, it is easier to develop
new interests and relationships.


During the group sessions focused on the
interpersonal problems, few clients bring up
their eating disorder. They rarely describe binge
eating or purging, or body image issues.
However, in the last few sessions, it is more
common for clients to talk about their eating
problems as they plan for the end of the group
sessions. Therapists often tell clients that eating
problems may be a kind of Achilles' heel,
meaning that the eating problems may recur in
times of emotional stress. Thus, the final sessions
are planned to solidify the interpersonal
changes that have been made during the process
of psychotherapy and to reduce the risk of
relapse.


Although studies of CBT have dominated the
research literature, there have been a number
of studies assessing the effectiveness of IPT
for BN (Agras, Walsh, Fairburn, Wilson, &amp;
Kraemer, 2000; Fairburn et al., 1993; Fairburn,
Norman, Welch, O'Connor, Doll, &amp; Peveler,
1995). Research shows that IPT is an effective
treatment for eating disorders. In an early
study on the effectiveness of IPT, it was compared
with cognitive-behavioral therapy and
behavioral therapy in young women with
bulimia (Fairburn et al., 1993); results indicated
that both CBT and IPT were superior to
treatment with only a behavioral component.
Furthermore, CBT and IPT produced significant
reductions in eating disordered behaviors.
Although CBT was superior to IPT immediately
following treatment, no significant differences
were found between the two interventions
1 year after treatment. In a study that evaluated
the longer-term effects of treatments for BN
(CBT, behavioral, and IPT; Fairburn et al.,
1995), those women who received CBT and IPT
had significantly greater remission rates at
6-year follow-up than those who participated in
the behavioral intervention. Furthermore, there
were no significant differences in remission
rates between those who participated in CBT
and IPT at long-term follow-up. Similar to earlier
findings, Agras et al. (2000) found that CBT
was clinically and statistically superior to IPT
immediately following treatment in reducing
the behavioral symptoms of eating disorders
(self-induced vomiting and dietary restraint).
There were, however, no significant differences
immediately following treatment in regard to
weight and shape concerns, self-esteem, and
interpersonal functioning. As in previous studies,
when considering posttreatment status, no
significant differences were detected between
the two treatments. This suggests that, although
CBT may be faster at reducing the behavioral
symptoms associated with eating disorders, IPT
is comparable to CBT when considering the
posttreatment rates of recovery maintenance
and remittance of symptoms.


Group IPT has been demonstrated to be an
effective treatment for eating disorders (Wilfley
et al., 1993). When group CBT and group IPT
for individuals with nonpurging bulimia (i.e.,
binge eaters who did not purge to compensate
for binges) were compared to wait-list controls,
CBT group therapy and group IPT had similar
effects on binge-eating behaviors. More specifically,
both group treatments produced significant
reductions in binge-eating behaviors at
6-month and 1-year follow-up. These results not
only suggest that group IPT is an equally effective
group treatment for the treatment of binge
eating disorder, it emphasizes the importance of
addressing social functioning and interpersonal

[p. <i>492</i>]

Reiss (2002) provided a kind of integrative
time-limited group therapy that merges aspects
of CBT and IPX along with psychoeducation.
She used the different approaches sequentially
in her 12-session group, beginning with psychoeducation,
then using CBT, and closing with
an IPT kind of approach. In a pilot study of this
type of group, 40 women who met the <i>DSM-IV-TR</i>
criteria for BN were included in groups of 6
to 8 members. Of the 36 who completed the program,
reductions in binge eating from an average
of seven per week prior to therapy to four
per week after therapy were shown.


Another integrative program called the Eating
Disorders Contemplation Group (Tantillo, Bitter,
&amp; Adams, 2001) is a model based on CBT and
focuses on the stages of change (Prochaska,
Norcross, &amp; DiClemente, 1994) and relational
therapy based on the work of Jordan, Miller, and
others from the Stone Center at Wellesley
College (i.e., Jordan, Kaplan, Miller, Stiver, &amp;
Surrey, 1991). In their description of this treatment
program, Tantillo et al. indicated that this
integrated model works in a group approach
because "the experience of mutuality in relationships
fosters validation of the patients'
strengths, problems, and present level of
change.... [T]he opportunities to experience
mutual relationships increase significantly in
the context of group psychotherapy where
patients are engaged with the group leader and
peers" (p. 209). The authors indicated that they
are continuing to collect data on the effectiveness
of the group treatment; they have included
a measure of mutuality, which will allow an
assessment of the power of the group dynamics.


OTHER KINDS OF
GROUP PSYCHOTHERAPY


Psychodynamic psychotherapy may be useful as
an alternative treatment for eating disorders
when cognitive-behavioral and interpersonal
therapies prove ineffective. Although Moreno
(1998) stated that there is a dearth of descriptive
and controlled research on psychodynamic
group therapy for people with eating disorders,
he provided a case report of a group that he
conducted. The psychodynamic view of eating
disorders is that binges may be used to help
people deny or anesthetize uncomfortable
emotions following interpersonal exchanges
(Moreno). Psychodynamic therapy for eating
disorders may take from 6 months to many
years. It focuses on fostering an emotional
experience that corrects underlying deficits in
self-identity. After a group experience marked
with difficulty (marginal institutional support,
and participation, attendance, and commitment
to the group were poor), Moreno concluded
that thorough assessment and preparation of
members might have avoided some of the major
problems in this group. He also concluded that a
multidimensional approach (including psychodynamic,
cognitive, and behavioral procedures)
should be used. Moreno's report is refreshing to
read because it reviews the difficulties in doing
this kind of work and highlights the need for
well-trained coleaders. Group-oriented psychodynamic
therapy may be used to help patients
reexperience their past and examine ways to
resolve these problems. However, this therapy
for eating disorders has not been scientifically
validated (Chambless et al., 1998).


Other therapies such as addiction-oriented,
self-help, and support groups have been used
for the treatment of eating disorders (Polivy &amp;
Federoff, 1997); however, they are less commonly
represented in research on the topic of
group treatment of eating disorders. There is
tremendous variation on the kinds of groups
offered and little evidence to indicate which
kinds of groups are most beneficial with various
kinds of eating problems.


A Creative Intervention Strategy:
The Use of Short Stories
in Eating Disorders Groups


Short stories may be used as an effective
group-level intervention for people who have
eating disturbances. Stories are especially useful
in addressing disordered eating attitudes and
behaviors because they allow group members to
confront their eating problems in a nonthreatening
way. Shifting the focus from the dysfunction
of the individuals in the group to the dysfunctions
of a neutral character in a story allows
individuals to more openly process issues

[p. <i>493</i>]

Individuals with eating disturbances tend to
feel significant levels of shame and guilt
(Burney &amp; Irwin, 2000) and are often defensive
and secretive regarding their eating attitudes
and behaviors. Individuals with AN particularly
are often withdrawn, anxious, rigid, egocentric,
and have extreme difficulty in identifying and
expressing feelings (Polivy &amp; Federoff, 1997).
Individuals who binge may have a difficult
time disclosing their binge-eating behaviors.
However, if the group leader presents a story
that symbolically represents the act of binge eating
(such as "all-or-nothing" behaviors), group
members may identify the story and then they
can participate and share with others in the
group. Using a short story in groups may be
an effective intervention because it allows
members enough distance from a particular
eating disturbance to feel comfortable engaging
in the group process. Readers are encouraged
to read stories that appear in every issue of
<i>Eating Disorders: The Journal of Treatment and
Prevention</i> to expand their repertoire of stories.
For example, one study titled "Pulling Weeds
and Planting Flowers" (Andersen, 1994) describes
a person who is removing all the self-
defeating behavior and learning to replace it
with more healthy and adaptive behavior.
Questions like Can we plant flowers at the same
time we are pulling weeds? and Where do you
think this group is right now in taking care of
our gardens? can be used to raise a useful discussion
about the destructive nature of eating-
disordered behaviors. More information about
how to use short stories in groups focused on
eating disorders can be found in Van Lone,
Kalodner, and Coughlin's (2002) article.


CAUTIONS


As with any kind of treatment, there are cautions
to consider. Polivy and Federoff (1997)
indicated that there is a risk that "patients will
form a strong ‘anorexic,’ ‘bulimic,’ or ‘eating
disordered’ identity" (p. 472), which may prevent
them from attempting to recover. This means
that the development of an identity of "me as a
person with an eating disorder" may develop
and be difficult to change. Polivy and Federoff
also indicated that in a group setting, those who
are more disturbed may undermine the progress
of those with less severe disorders. It is also
possible that those with less severe disturbances
will consider themselves "not that bad" and
inhibit their efforts to recover. They raise the
commonly heard concern that individuals will
teach each other symptoms and unhealthy practices
and that some may become overly dependent
on others. Leaders need to be aware of
these possibilities and monitor the group for
indications of these cautions.


Other issues that influence the type of treatment
selected and the outcome of treatment are
the co-occurring psychological problems, such
as substance abuse/dependence, depression, and
anxiety disorders (especially obsessive-compulsive
disorder). These issues complicate treatment
of the eating disorders. It is difficult to
help a person with an eating disorder who is also
dependent on alcohol or other drugs. Likewise,
when a person has an eating disorder and
depression or an anxiety disorder, the treatment
must attend to both problems.


REMAINING ISSUES


It is difficult to assess the role of the group environment
in the effectiveness of these interventions.
Very few studies have included a measure
of group cohesion or any other group variable.
The focus in both the psychoeducational prevention
and counseling and therapy treatment
groups is on the outcome, tied to the symptoms
of the eating problems, rather than the process by
which the change occurs. The group appears to
be a way to reach more people at the same time,
a kind of issue of efficiency, rather than one that
is based on using the power of the group to influence
change. Future research using group treatment
would benefit from an explicit use and
evaluation of the effect of the group as part of the
therapeutic approach. Research evaluating the
effectiveness of groups should include a measure
of group cohesion, in addition to outcome measures
associated with eating disorders.

[p. <i>494</i>]

Another problem is the definition of the
outcome of recovery. For BN, recovery is
usually described in terms of reductions in the
frequency or severity of binge eating, purging,
or other problematic behaviors, or the proportion
of people who stopped or reduced these
behaviors. For AN, recovery is framed as the
amount of weight gained or the proportion of
individuals who achieved a weight that is a percentage
of ideal weight. The return of menstruation
in women is another outcome measure of
the success of treatment. What is missed in this
assessment of change is the change in attitudes
about body image. In AN, this includes the
"intense fear of gaining weight or becoming
fat" and "disturbance in the way in which one's
body weight or shape is experienced, undue
influence of body weight or shape on self-
evaluation, or denial of the seriousness of the
current low body weight." In BN, this includes
the notion that self-evaluation is unduly influenced
by body shape and weight (APA, 2000).
Also, associated issues, such as depression,
anxiety, and other psychological adjustment,
are rarely reported.


SUMMARY


Group work with individuals with eating disorders
is hard work (Moreno, 1998) and requires
careful planning, screening, and ongoing supervision
(DeLucia-Waack, 1999). This chapter
includes information that is useful in the
planning of psychoeducational, counseling, or
psychotherapy groups for eating disorders and
provides examples of psychoeducational and
cognitive-behavioral and interpersonal therapy
groups focused on eating disorders. The reader
is encouraged to read the sources cited in this
chapter and seek supervision before embarking
on a group program with this population.


REFERENCES


Agras, S. W., Walsh, T., Fairbum, C. G., Wilson,
G. T., &amp; Kraemer, H. C. (2000). A multicenter
comparison of cognitive-behavioral therapy and
interpersonal psychotherapy for bulimia nervosa.
<i>Archives of General Psychiatry, 57</i>, 459-466.


American Psychiatric Association. (2000). <i>Diagnostic
and statistical manual of mental disorders</i>
(4th ed-TR.). Washington, DC: Author.


Andersen, A. (1994). Stories I tell my patients: Pulling
weeds and planting flowers. <i>Eating Disorders:
The Journal of Prevention and Treatment,
2</i>, 184-185.


Baumann, J. (1992). Reflections on groups psychotherapy
with eating disorder patients. <i>Group
Psychotherapy for Eating Disorders, 16</i>, 95-100.


Bowers, W. A. (2001). Basic priniciples for applying
cognitive-behavioral therapy to anorexia nervosa.
<i>Psychiatric Clinics of North America, 24</i>,
293-303.


Bowman, V. E., &amp; DeLucia-Waack, J. L. (1996).
Preparation for counseling revisited: New applications
to meet the goals of brief counseling.
<i>Crisis Intervention and Time Limited Treatment,
2</i>, 255-266.


Bumey, J., &amp; Irwin, H. J. (2000). Shame and guilt in
women with eating-disordered symptomatology.
<i>Journal of Clinical Psychology, 56</i>, 51-61.


Chambless, D. L., Baker, M. J., Baucom, D. H.,
Beutler, L. E., Calhoun, K. S., &amp; Crits-Christoph,
P., et al. (1998). Update on empirically validated
therapies, II. <i>Clinical Psychologist, 51</i>(1), 3-16.


Coughlin, J. W., &amp; Kalodner, C. R. (2003). <i>Media
influences on eating disorders</i>. Manuscript
submitted for publication.


Cummins, P. N. (1996). Preparing clients with eating
disorders for group counseling: A multimedia
approach. <i>Journal for Specialists in Group
Work, 21</i>, 4-10.


Davis, R., Dearing, S., Faulkner, J., Jasper, K.,Olmsted,
M. P., Rice, C., et al., (1989). The road to
recovery: A manual for participants in the
psychoeducation group for bulimia nervosa. In
H. Harper-Giuffre &amp; K. R. MacKenzie
(Eds.), <i>Group psychotherapy for eating disorders</i>
(Appendix). Washington, DC: American
Psychiatric Association Press.


DeLucia-Waack, J. L. (1999). Supervision for counselors
working with eating disorders groups:
Countertransference issues related to body
image, food, and weight. <i>Journal of Counseling
and Development, 77</i>, 379-388.


Fairbum, C. G. (1997). Interpersonal psychotherapy
for bulimia nervosa. In D. M. Garner &amp; P. E.
Garfinkel (Eds.), <i>Handbook of treatment for eating
disorders</i> (2nd ed.) (pp. 25-33). New York:
Guilford.

[p. <i>495</i>]

Fairbum, C. G., Jones, R., Peveler, R. C., Hope,
R. A., &amp; O'Connor, M. (1993). Psychotherapy
and bulimia nervosa: The longer-term effects of
interpersonal psychotherapy, behavior therapy,
and cognitive behavior therapy. <i>Archives of
General Psychiatry, 50</i>, 419-428.


Fairburn, C. G., Norman, P. A., Welch, S. L.,
O'Connor, M. E., Doll, H. A., &amp; Peveler, R. C.
(1995). A prospective study of outcome in
bulimia nervosa and the long-term effects of
three psychological treatments. <i>Archives of
General Psychiatry, 52</i>, 304-312.


Fairbum, C. G., Welch, S. L., Doll, H. A., Davies,
B. A., &amp; O'Connor, M. E. (1997). Risk factors
for bulimia nervosa: A community-based case-
control study. <i>Archives of General Psychiatry,
54</i>, 509-517.


Feld, R., Woodside, D. B., Kaplan, A. S., Olmsted,
M. P., &amp; Carter, J. C. (2001). Pretreatment motivational
enhancement therapy for eating disorders:
A pilot study. <i>International Journal of
Eating Disorders, 29</i>, 393-400.


Fettes, P. A., &amp; Peters, J. M. (1992). A meta-analysis
of group treatments for bulimia nervosa.
<i>International Journal of Eating Disorders, 11</i>,
97-110.


Gamer, D. M. (1997). Psychoeducational principles in
treatment. In D. M. Garner &amp; P. E. Garfinkel
(Eds.), <i>Handbook of treatment for eating disorders</i>
(2nd ed.) (pp. 145-177). New York: Guilford.


Hall, A. (1985). Group psychotherapy for anorexia
nervosa. In D. M. Garner &amp; P. E. Garfinkel
(Eds.), <i>Handbook of psychotherapy for eating
disorders</i> (pp. 213-239). Washington, DC:
American Psychiatric Press.


Hendren, R. L., Atkins, D. M., Sumner, C. R., &amp;
Barber, J. K. (1987). Model for the group treatment
of eating disorders. <i>International Journal
of Group Psychotherapy, 37</i>, 589-602.


Herzog, D. B., &amp; Delinsky, S. S. (2001). Classification
of eating disorders. In R. H. Striegel-Moore
&amp; L. Smolak (Eds.), <i>Eating disorders:
Innovative directions in research and practice</i>
(pp. 31-50). Washington, DC: American Psychological
Association.


Hobbs, M., Birtchnell, S., Harte, A., &amp; Lacey, H.
(1989). Therapeutic factors in short-term group
therapy for women with bulimia. <i>International
Journal of Eating Disorders, 8</i>, 623-633.


Jordan, J., Kaplan, A., Miller, J., Stiver, L, &amp; Surrey,
J. (1991). <i>Women's growth in connection:
Writings from the Stone Center</i>. New York:
Guilford.


Kalodner, C. R., &amp; DeLucia-Waack, J. L (2003).
Theory and research on eating disorders and disturbances
in women: Suggestions for practice.
In M. Kopala and M. Keitel (Eds.), <i>Handbook of
counseling women</i>. Thousand Oaks, CA: Sage.


Keel, P. K., Mitchell, J. E., Davis, T. L., &amp; Crow,
S. J. (2002). Long-term impact of treatment in
women diagnosed with bulimia nervosa.
<i>International Journal of Eating Disorders, 31</i>,
151-158.


Kirkley, B. G., Schneider, J. A., Agras, S., &amp;
Bachman, J. A. (1985). Comparison of two group
treatments for bulimia. <i>Journal of Consulting &amp;
Clinical Psychology, 53</i>, 43-48.


Laberg, S., Tornkvist, A., &amp; Andersson, G. (2001).
Experiences of patients in cognitive behavioural
group therapy: A qualitative study of eating disorders.
<i>Scandinavian Journal of Behaviour
Therapy, 30</i>, 161-178.


Linehan, M. M. (1993). <i>Cognitive-behavioral treatment
of borderline personality disorder</i>. New
York: Guilford.


Linehan, M. M., &amp; Kehrer, C. A. (1993). Borderline
personality disorder. In D. H. Barlow (Ed.),
<i>Clinical handbook of psychological disorders: A
step-by-step treatment manual</i> (pp. 396-441).
New York: Guilford.


Mintz, L. B., O'Halloran, M. S., Mulholland, A. M.,
&amp; Schneider, P. A. (1997). The questionnaire for
eating disorder diagnoses: Reliability and validity
of operationalizing <i>DSM-IV</i> criteria into a
self-report format. <i>Journal of Counseling
Psychology, 44</i>, 63-79.


Moreno, J. K. (1998). Long-term psychodynamic
group psychotherapy for eating disorders: A
descriptive case report. <i>Journal for Specialists
in Group Work, 23</i>, 269-284.


Mulholland, A. M., &amp; Mintz, L. B. (2001).
Prevalence of eating disorders among African
American women. <i>Journal of Counseling
Psychology, 48</i>, 111-116.


Oesterheid, J. R., McKenna, M. S., &amp; Gould, N. B.
(1987). Group psychotherapy of bulimia: A critical
review. <i>International Journal of Group
Psychotherapy, 57</i>, 163-184.


Phelps, L., Dempsey, M., Sapia, J., &amp; Nelson, L.
(1999). The efficacy of a school-based eating
disorder prevention program: Building physical
self-esteem and personal competencies. In

[p. <i>496</i>]

Piazza, E. A., &amp; Steiner-Adair, C. (1986). Recent
trends in group therapy for anorexia nervosa and
bulimia. In F. E. F. Larocca (Ed.), <i>Eating disorders:
Effective care and treatment</i> (pp. 25-51).
New York: Wiley.


Piran, N., Levine, M. P., &amp; Steiner-Adair, C. (1999).
<i>Preventing eating disorders: A handbook of interventions
and special challenges</i>. Philadelphia:
Taylor &amp; Francis.


Polivy, J., &amp; Federoff, I. (1997). Group psychotherapy.
In D. M. Garner &amp; P. E. Garfinkel (Eds.),
<i>Handbook of treatment for eating disorders</i> (2nd
ed.) (pp. 462-475). New York: Guilford.


Polivy, J., &amp; Herman, C. P. (1985). Dieting and binging:
A causal analysis. <i>American Psychologist,
40</i>, 193-201.


Prochaska, J. O., Norcross, J. C., &amp; DiClemente, C. C.
(1994). <i>Changing for good</i>. New York: William
Morrow.


Richards, P. S., Baldwin, B. M., Frost, H. A.,
Clark-Sly, J. B., Berrett, M. E., &amp; Hardman, R. K.
(2000). What works for treating eating disorders?
Conclusions of 28 outcome reviews.
<i>Eating Disorders: The Journal of Treatment and
Prevention, 8</i>, 189-206.


Riess, H. (2002). Integrative time-limited group therapy
for bulimia nervosa. <i>International Journal
of Group Psychotherapy, 52</i>, 1-26.


Romano, S. J., Quinn, L., &amp; Helmi, K. (1994)
Cognitive-behavioral group psychotherapy for
bulimia nervosa: Clinical considerations and
group format. <i>Eating Disorders: The Journal of
Treatment and Prevention, 2</i>, 31-41.


Smolak, L. (1999). Elementary school curriculum for
the primary prevention of eating problems. In
N. Piran, M. P. Levine, &amp; C. Steiner-Adair (Eds.),
<i>Preventing eating disorders: A handbook of interventions
and special challenges</i> (pp. 87-104).
Philadelphia: Taylor &amp; Francis.


Smolak, L., Levine, M. P., &amp; Schermer, F. (1998).
Lessons from lessons: An evaluation of an
elementary school prevention program. In
W. Vandereycken &amp; G. Noordenbos (Eds.), <i>The
prevention of eating disorders</i> (pp. 137-172).
New York: New York University Press.


Stein, R. L, Saelens, B. E., Dounchis, J. Z., Lewczyk,
C. M., Swenson, A. K., &amp; Wilfley, D. E. (2001).
Treatment of eating disorders in women.
<i>Counseling Psychologist, 29</i>, 695-732.


Striegel-Moore, R. H., &amp; Smolak, L. (2001).
Introduction. In R. H. Striegel-Moore &amp;
L. Smolak (Eds.), <i>Eating disorders: Innovative
directions in research and practice</i> (pp. 3-7).
Washington, DC: American Psychological
Association.


Tantillo, M., Bitter, C. N., &amp; Adams, B. (2001).
Enhancing readiness for eating disorder treatment:
A relational/motivational group model for
change. Eating Disorders: <i>The Journal of
Treatment and Prevention, 9</i>, 203-216.


Telch, C. F., Agras, W. S., &amp; Linehan, M. M. (2001).
Dialectical behavior therapy for binge eating
disorder. <i>Journal of Consulting and Clinical
Psychology, 69</i>, 1061-1065.


Thompson, J. K., &amp; Smolak, L. (2001). <i>Body
image, eating disorders, and obesity in youth</i>.
Washington, DC: American Psychological
Association.


Van Lone, J. L., Kalodner, C. R., &amp; Coughlin, J. W.
(2002). Using short stories to address eating disturbances
in groups. <i>Journal for Specialists in
Group Work, 27</i>, 59-77.


Vandereycken, W., &amp; Noordenbos, G. (1998). <i>The
prevention of eating disorders</i>. New York: New
York University Press.


Wilfley, D. E., Agras, S. W., Telch, C. F., Rossiter,
E. M., Schneider, J. A., Cole, A. B., et al.
(1993). Group cognitive-behavioral therapy and
group interpersonal psychotherapy for the non-purging
bulimic individual: A controlled comparison.
<i>Journal of Consulting &amp; Clinical
Psychology, 61</i>, 296-305.


Wilson, G. T., Fairbum, C. G., &amp; Agras, W. S. (1997).
Cognitive-behavioral therapy for bulimia nervosa.
In D. M. Garner &amp; P. E. Garfmkel (Eds.),
<i>Handbook of treatment for eating disorders</i> (2nd
ed.) (pp. 67-93). New York: Guilford.


Zerbe, K. J. (1993). Whose body is it anyway?
Understanding and treating psychosomatic
aspects of eating disorders. <i>Bulletin of the
Menninger Clinic, 57</i>, 161-177.


Zimpfer, D. G. (1990). Group work for bulimia: A
review of outcomes. <i>Journal for Specialists in
Group Work, 75</i>,239-251.

