TRANSCRIPT OF AUDIO FILE:
______________________________________________________________________________
BEGIN TRANSCRIPT:
PATIENT: Believe me. (inaudible) take some video tapes together.
COUNSELOR: Oh, a video machine?
PATIENT: Really bad day. Today is like yesterday was (inaudible) or why (inaudible) come here again (inaudible). But I was in the middle of working out. Like either...some things there's nothing to do about or the other things I was so far lost on them that I couldn't even talk about them. And...so anyway, I guess I decided I just sort of talk about the kind of maze I was in (inaudible) looked at. Or maybe I'd se how bad it was to do something about it (inaudible) generally, sort of the beginning last week that I was getting really panicked about work and about trying to apply for internships and being too (inaudible) for usual and I guess it was right before I came in last week that I was really panicked...I'd begun being panicked about the (inaudible) a lot of other things that I was clearing up and I was beginning to feel like I could really get a hold on (inaudible) I was in pretty good shape when I came in last week. 00:01:42 And basically what kind of happened is that (inaudible) and I've been doing this for like two years and (inaudible) I better stop and I'm not quite sure how. I (inaudible) some kind of behavior modification...just getting down to working on a schedule or something like that. The kind of thing we used to do in (inaudible) class. The kind of work we used to do with clients. 
COUNSELOR: I didn't know you had (inaudible)
PATIENT: Among...I taught a little of it (inaudible) since I've been here but I really found it useful for the kind of cases we were working on and I sort of tried to get myself on the same kind of schedule after I was...would be through and a lot of the kinds of cases we'd work with the people that couldn't study or something like that and it's for (inaudible) in a sense, really anxious about something that they couldn't get done whether it was...they couldn't find time to spend with their husband or they couldn't find time to finish all of their work and they were always late with everything and he would sit them down and get them some kind of schedule that they could work with and place they could work and it was all irrational except I went home and tried to do it for myself and I ended up being absolutely obsessive compulsive about the whole thing and writing down all these details which is what...how he starts out. We keep a record of your time for the first couple of weeks...of where you are everyday and what you're doing and what your reactions are to the situation and then you sort of sit and evaluate that and then set out certain things that you should do at certain times, not planning out your whole day or anything and then the whole thing falls apart because it's too easy. And I got about as far as the first part, (inaudible) keeping track of what I was doing and then it just...the whole thing just fell apart and that was the last few (inaudible) and I haven't gotten anywhere since. And the things is that I've kind of, ever since prelims just sort of not wanted to look at a book; not wanted to do any work and just sort of enjoyed not having anything that I had to do right then, and that's planning everything got me so upset because I felt really incompetent to plan anything. 00:04:24 I just didn't even think about it as a result of which...and then Christmas came and I had one course that I had to really finish up the work in, which I did, only by not doing anything else until the last week. And just left for Christmas Eve...got back and (inaudible) you know, really over my head as far as trying to finish stuff. Or...and like I didn't even begin on writing letters about internships until January 29th and missed the deadlines of February 1st and...which was really ridiculous because I've known all year that was what I wanted to do next year; was really the only thing I wanted to do next year. There's some that I can still apply for if I get down to doing it. And it's like I just sort of worry that I can't do something or I'm so afraid of...of sitting down and planning anything (inaudible) maybe we won't have to do that. I'm not sure why...that I put it off to the last minute and almost, you know, then it's just takes some kind of sheer brilliancy to...to get everything done and then...or else I don't get everything done and I fail. I fail the course, (inaudible) tell him I can't do it and then I just end up feeling so miserable that I can't even begin to think of any alternatives. (inaudible) and it's a really irrational kind of vicious circle. It's like I really program myself for failure. 00:06:25
COUNSELOR: Yeah, I've (inaudible) sort of disgusted like you knew you wanted that all along and here it is too late and how come you did that to yourself (inaudible). 
PATIENT: Yeah. I mean how come...I just would not let myself even think of it until the pressure...I had it sort of in the back my mind, I'll be fine and the only way I could really just sort of keep going and keep living a life was to not think about it. And then it finally grew and I finally...I spent 2 weekends really being, like say...okay, this weekend you've got to sit down and do it and I wouldn't. I would think of absolutely everything else I need to do first and (inaudible) night would come and I'd be going to work the next morning and I wouldn't get it done. And so what I've done now is I have an exam in one course this weekend; a take home exam. I haven't done any work all quarter. I had this week to spend on applications and to write the exam and to work. And I think like, you know, even spending every minute I'll probably just barely get it done. Or get it done halfway. And...but at the same time I know damn well I probably won't be able to sleep at night because I'll be worrying about it and I'll waste more time that way. And kind of the only way I can just sort of relieve my anxiety is to just really escape and to...just sitting and talking (inaudible) visiting my boyfriend or something like that. And I'm really not sure what to do about it. Because, I mean, it's not just this week. I mean I may pass (inaudible) fail this week, (inaudible) I'm not...the thing is I think what I tend to do is put everything off to the last minute and deliberately, in a sense, get myself so bogged down that than if I don't make it, then I've just sort of said, you're not really to blame because you were so bogged down it was really (overlapping voices) 00:08:57
COUNSELOR: Impossible thing
PATIENT: Right. And...I mean it's like I can't conceive of writing a paper and turning it in (inaudible) I could write or...or just taking an exam. The biggest most difficult question on it which should be allowed if it's a 3 hour exam, it should be allowed maybe an hour and a half or an hour, I've done in the last 10 minutes and then I write this little note "ran out of time" at the end and squish in all my ideas in very poor order and it's the only way I can do it. And I do fail half of them...sometimes I come out very lucky. Sometimes I can write a lot and really fast under pressure but it's completely putting it up to chance. 
COUNSELOR: You have to remind me of that (inaudible) some music that I know where it's very...it's got very, very tricky rhythm and it's very chancy whether the musicians will come out together and the recording I have of it, they do come out together and you hear them laugh just when they leave but many times they play it and it doesn't happen that way and it kind of came to my mind, like once in a while you make a coup and you...it really is brilliant and all together but so many times, I mean, it looks like...almost like you were saying a minute ago, oh, my life is just set up in this self defeating way or at least, the part of me that has to do things. 00:10:28
PATIENT: It's been that way all along. And I end up...it's like it keeps going in cycles. They'll be the cycle of relief after I finish something and it's like from the first day it's going to be great...I can go out and celebrate, I can sleep all day, I can read a novel, I can play a guitar, I can do all these things that's I've (inaudible) wanted to do but never had time to do. The next day, I'm in complete depression, which happens after my (inaudible) because they don't know what to do. Because I have all these millions of things that are hanging over me and need to be done; sometime...none of them have a definite deadline. There's no order when they have to be done and it just so overwhelms me thinking about all of them that since I don't really have to think about any of them right now, because none of them need to be done right now; I don't think about any of them and I go for weeks (overlapping voices) until something all of a sudden needs to be done; usually it's a whole bunch of things all at once. And then again, it's total panic. I can't conceive of doing anything else. I've turned down all sorts of invitations to go places or if I have them, I'm a wreck. I'm going there. I had a brunch with a friend Sunday morning and it was really nice and I was really looking forward to it and I sort of just sat there the whole time and I enjoyed it but I couldn't talk. I could just listen because all of my energy was like in not thinking about what all I had to do when I get home. And like just...just things like going to plays or going to ballets or things like that which my roommates and I sort of decided we were going to do some of this year or just sitting down reading a novel. I can never bring myself to do it or I have to really make definite plans and then stick to it like we're going to the ballet this Sunday and I'm...it's going to be a real mess because I'm going to be trying to do (inaudible) and that I know really affected relationships with friends because almost every time I see them I'm so hung up with all the things that I have to do...I mean like one guy that I wasn't really dating but it was...I sort of went out with once and talked to on the phone (inaudible) he says why is it every time I call you, you say (inaudible) or you're so upset about things? Are you always like this? And I said no I'm not always like that it's just and I put whatever going on...whatever is going on right now. Except that he called me over the course of a 3 month period and it was... 00:13:21
COUNSELOR: It was like that.
PATIENT: It was a different thing every time he called but it was there. And I'm just sick of it and I mean, in a sense, it was...it would be this kind of thing that would really add to my depression if I was in a real depression that used to really, I'm sure, add to the suicidal kinds of (inaudible) though it didn't cause them. It was the other things that caused them but it was always the feeling of never being able to be on top of things (inaudible)...in a sense, never being my own master; never being able to decide to do something and do it. I never write letters on time. I always...I mean part of me (inaudible) is unless I've had a really good evening or something and I'm just sort of high because of feeling really good about something, is that there's always this underlying thing that's...ever since...all through college, I don't think I ever had a time, after the first quarter, that I didn't have some kind of incomplete (ph) hanging over me. And all my friends said how are you going to graduate because you can't leave anything (inaudible) and it was the most amazing last week...last month of college that anyone could ever imagine. People kept coming to me and they had papers to do because they could always ask me and know that I'd have a couple more to do than they did and they'd always feel relieved and you know, it was sort of a joke then...it had to be because it was just so desperate. And I was taking 2 sets of comprehensives and writing...I think it was like 9 papers in the last month. And I would do it on a day like I was really organized and I was just whipping them off and they were coming back, you know..."excellent"; "well organized". But it took so much out of me. I never want to do it again. 00:15:35 And I think when I got here; I was still tired from that. 
COUNSELOR: Something frightening for you about feeling that's the...is there some feeling like well, that's the only way I get to function at all...when the pressure gets so bad, the outside pressure, that I just have to do that or I'll sink. But other than that you...
PATIENT: Yeah. It's kind of...I don't know whether it's...then is the only time that I can truly devote myself or concentrate on something enough to get it done and dawdle over it because I know I've done it (inaudible) otherwise it...it's the only way I can read a book fast...is to know that is has to be read by the exam the next day.
COUNSELOR: (overlapping voices) by tomorrow. Yeah. 
PATIENT: Otherwise it will take me weeks to read it and I'll get bored with it and I'll do a million things in between. That's really pretty tricky but if I have like, this afternoon, hopefully I'm going to go to the library and I'm going to stay there until it closes. I have to. I haven't...I have got just a list of articles to read. And I have no idea whether I'm going to get through it or not. And I don't know what it is that I can't plan and I can't...it's really a not wanting to kind of thing, you know? Not...I'm sure if I really wanted to plan, I could plan or...but if I do, I don't follow whatever I've panned or if I set out this great thing...made this list of new years resolutions, the first year at college after I turned in everything late the first quarter...first semester. My roommate (inaudible) and just laughed; she just roared. This whole page of turned in papers (inaudible) early and study for exams every day a certain number of hours and stuff. But she knew I wasn't going to do it and I realize...I didn't even come close to hitting a single one of them though they were all very worthy things to do. 00:17:46
COUNSELOR: This...one reason or one thing that strikes me about that and it may be because I've been recently in the business of trying to work out schedules for myself and I've tried setting up different times that I...I realize some times aren't good to set up because I just fail at them...I mean, I now know you don't set up...I don't set up this time for myself...I was wondering if part of it felt like, well, when you did make attempts to plan, they were unreal (inaudible) Gold Diamond must have a word for that or there must be a concept with that. 
PATIENT: There is. 
COUNSELOR: I wouldn't know what it is. 
PATIENT: (inaudible) I can't remember what the term is right now but...there's something about you have to plan things in small enough...you have to start out small enough that you can do it. That you can, in fact, do more than that but you don't. I (inaudible) taking this course in years. I (inaudible) terms for it but I know...I know the concepts (inaudible) well. 
COUNSELOR: No, I'm...the reason why I'm giggling was I started doing that after Christmas and I gave myself a check...or I wrote down everyday if I did anything extra...anything extra meaning doing the wash, (inaudible), you know, it's ridiculous things and I was just laughing at myself. But it really helped for those first couple of days.
PATIENT: Really? 
COUNSELOR: Yeah. 
PATIENT: That's cool. What did you do? I mean...
COUNSELOR: I had arrived without knowing...I don't...I never...I don't know Gold Diamond but I had sort of arrived by trial and error at this business...like I was setting up things I couldn't do and what I needed to do was set up these little itsy things that were almost so stupid but I knew I could accomplish them and I would permit myself to feel good about it. 
PATIENT: That's cool. Would you, like, check off when you did them or....? 00:19:29
COUNSELOR: Yeah. At the end of the day I'd cross them off. I had a little pad and I picked it so I knew I could accomplish something and then I also wrote down anything I did extra and I laughed every two seconds but it seemed to be helpful for those first couple of days because I thought, god, I've got to get this done by the end of January and I'm frightened I can't do (inaudible) for two years and.... It doesn't always help but it's like, I think one principle for me was when I get this horribly overwhelming anxiety, I have to...I get real minute and I don't know whether that would be helpful but it...just the notion like I am setting it up so I will get reinforcement (overlapping voices) 
PATIENT: That's really what I need to do because....except that I need to do it. Not the week before the exam, because then, in a sense, I need to make a list that's impossible because I have to do it. 
COUNSELOR: Oh, so by the time you get around to making up the list, you can't do it the way we're talking about?
PATIENT: Right. Because I can't get reinforced for reading one book because there are 5 more that I need to read that same day or I fail. And in fact, in college...and I had a roommate that was similar enough to me that we were good for each other and that we were both in such bad shape that we couldn't feel sorry for ourselves individually but we would sit down and...the last...we had a reading period (inaudible) like ten days and we would schedule every single hour...you know, blocks of time. Okay, this morning I'm going to do all the work on English and what would happen would be...you know, in that time period we wouldn't finish all the English that we had to do for the exam but that was...you couldn't spend the whole week on English because you'd fail the four other subjects you were taking. And it worked out really well because you...then you knew that okay, this morning I've got a plan to get as much English in as I can and it was a really, really neat schedule as far as it...I really followed it but only for those ten days. I couldn't have stayed under that pressure any longer, I would have really (inaudible) and (inaudible) the whole thing (inaudible) would have given up which I almost did many, many times. (inaudible) like one time I had four exams....Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday morning...I hadn't studied for any of them. I hadn't read anything all year. I stayed up. I didn't go to sleep those four nights and I passed. Had I gone to sleep...had I given up which I almost did a couple of nights...I kept saying you just can't do this and I'd stay up and I'd get through and I'd have the exam in the morning and I'd go to bed for a half hour and I'd get up and I'd study all the next day. But it was (inaudible) 00:22:22
COUNSELOR: (overlapping voices) hard
PATIENT: It was real hard. Like, the day my last exam was over, I just slept. And I didn't want to talk to anybody; didn't want to see anybody. And in a sense it was kind of...there were other people going through the same thing...you know, other people in the dorm studying...not quite as desperately...of course, nobody was quite as much behind but you know, but they were there sort of to reinforce you and to keep you awake and stuff. But it was...you know, it was a really sick kind of fun when you come right down to it. But I'd done that for so long and you know, just all through high school and all...except that it's...part...a whole bunch of it is learning new study habits kind of thing but that's not all of it because it's...it applies to everything else too; not just to study. It's to...people I sort of mean to call and then to see and I started a birthday letter to my grandmother January a year ago, which I have been carrying around with me ever since and haven't finished and you know, it's...like she's really old and I keep being afraid she's going to die before I get to finally writing her and thanking her for two Christmas' and two birthdays worth of presents and stuff. 
COUNSELOR: And that sort of sounds sort of funny but there's something really awful about it too. It sounds like to be carrying around that letter (inaudible)
PATIENT: And you know it's really inane. If I just took an hour and sat down and wrote it, it would be fine. And there's something about once it's been hanging over you for so long, it becomes such a huge project that you can't do it. 00:24:14
COUNSELOR: Even if actually the task itself is small, it's like you're so...there's so much of a psychological wall that's built up or something like that. 
PATIENT: Yeah. That's really true. And that sort of happens with all letters (inaudible)
COUNSELOR: And you ask yourself, or at least I ask myself (inaudible), what is it about this that I find so awful. Like sometimes it's clear to me...if I don't' want to call somebody on the phone because I'm going to have to do something unpleasant; sometimes the unpleasantness is really clear but other times I (inaudible) just don't get it. You know? 
PATIENT: I mean there's some letters that....actually I do know somewhat that I have trouble saying things in letters the way I want to say them and I keep thinking, well, maybe when I get in a really good mood and everything will sort of come...I mean I really have a hard time writing; describing what I want to say which is part of why I don't like apply for things because I really don't trust myself to be able to fill out an application (inaudible) and by the time I end up doing it, it's late at night and I'm a nervous wreck and I just sort of put down anything and I'm amazed I've gotten to college and to grad school or anything else. And.... 00:25:36
COUNSELOR: If all you're concerned about how you're going to come across, you end up really just sort of flung yourself on paper. 
PATIENT: Yeah. And it's like I do it...I end up mostly coming across much worse than I'm sure I could. If it weren't for all...like I really feel like psychological hang ups, emotional hang ups, whatever...just this general stat of anxiety. I don't perform as well as I could. And it's, in a sense, really kept me from...I've done...I've...for the most part, except maybe for the last couple of years, when things have really gotten really ****ed up...I've survived. I've gotten through and I've done stuff I needed to do in college, I ended up doing most of it pretty well. I wrote papers really well because I (inaudible) to spend on it. But it's like at such a cost. And it really isn't worth it because, number 1, things...no matter how much cost I...it takes of, you know, telling my friends not to talk to me this eek because I'm working on something or I have to be prepared for this exam which is what this week is going to consist of. The point that I really...almost got mad at my roommate for sitting and talking to me last night until 2 in the morning because I really needed to get to bed and get up and get to the library and then I'll say that's ridiculous; you know that it's more important to talk to her than to do (inaudible) then to worry about reading a couple of articles. And it's like even with this tremendous cost that things don't come out well and I don't quite know how to get...I'm beginning to see...you know, I'm beginning to see what's wrong which I guess is the first step. But as far as...somehow it's got to be more...you know, maybe some kind of scheduling change will help. 00:28:01 I'm sure it will. If I don't get...what I tend to do is get bogged down in the scheduling; spend all my time writing lists and never doing anything; just re-writing lists; and then getting so mad at myself for doing that that I just stop all together. But you know, I end up really being so paralyzed that I do nothing except worry about that things that I (inaudible) and absolute...I'm afraid to go out and start doing something new or get involved in a new project and I soon gradually drop all the old projects (inaudible) or old activities that I was in...when I got here I was really all fired up to meet (inaudible) people as I could and find out what was going on on campus. I don't know what's going on on campus. I don't even come over here unless I'm really desperate. I come...I manage to get to, like, one class a week. And I find out what's going on and what courses are good soon after the fact: after they've been going on for a long time. And I probably could have taken them. 
COUNSELOR: I guess one thing that I get out of hearing this is that okay, it's beginning to...the pattern that you (inaudible) that you're stuck in begins to get very clear and what's the matter with it is except that there doesn't seem to be any break in it to get started a new way. That's one thing. And the other thing...I thought I heard earlier was something like, although (ph) the only ways you can see or the ways...some of the ways that suggest themselves that would change things feel so foreign to you. They feel...I think you said something about handing a paper in early and that may have been slightly humorous but... 00:30:10
PATIENT: I don't know how I could do it. I really don't. Like, I took my prelims and I had a week to do them. And for the most part, I could have done each one; one day right after the other. But I would not let myself finish a single question until it got down to the last three days. And then I ended up finishing two questions the last night. Rewriting and (inaudible) you know, typing all night...getting two of my friends to be typing while I was writing, or I couldn't have done it. And it's like somehow I had to do it that way. And I can't conceive of having done it any other way. I guess...I mean, part of it is like, really never being satisfied with a paper or with work that I do and if you do it at the last minute, you don't even have to read it over. 
COUNSELOR: Yeah, who's got time to get picky about it.
PATIENT: I mean, I ended up having my boyfriend, who typed it, correct the punctuation and put it in a sentence that you could read and...
COUNSELOR: You didn't even have to look at it. 
PATIENT: I didn't...I didn't look at it again after I wrote it. I really didn't. I didn't want to. And that's how I...I take exams that way which is why I never want to read it because it never comes out as well as it should. Maybe some of it is getting rid of some kind of an exalted attitude towards myself or towards what I should be (inaudible) satisfied with what I do and realizing that it never can be fantastic. Part of it is just getting something done and be satisfied with it without trying to make it some great masterpiece which I try to do but I can't do so I don't do anything at all or I do it at the last minute. 00:32:34
COUNSELOR: Yeah. I was wondering (inaudible) maybe this is just some little (inaudible) connection in my mind or something, but it struck me like that's something that needs to...how would I put it? If you get...if you really did start two weeks in advance, it sounded almost like you were saying maybe I would spend so much time worrying about being perfect and every thing like that that I'd end up in almost the same state that I am when it's the day before it's due. I mean there'd be something....maybe it wouldn't be a similar situation but I still wouldn't get it done. I'm not sure about that. In some ways it sounds very different but at least this way is shorter; the one where you're (inaudible) I don't know...that may be just (overlapping voices) 
PATIENT: That's probably a (inaudible) plus the fact that if you do it all the last day, that it's really fresh in your mind. (inaudible) 
COUNSELOR: I got some feeling when you're talking about it that it was like there was some way in which you just couldn't bear to have to worry about the product. Like you had...give it to your boyfriend to type and to punctuate because there's something and you just couldn't bear to look at it. 
PATIENT: Yeah. That's really true and like I could not take my own work and sit down and criticize it. It was somehow really too painful for me to do that. 0034:07
COUNSELOR: What's your feeling when you do...when you do read something like that ever? If you had had time to read one question, do you know what would have gone on for you then? 
PATIENT: I'm really afraid to face the way I see things. I very seldom ever read (inaudible) If I read it over (inaudible) and it's in order to get some of the facts out of it that I put into it. And then by the time I read it, it's an impersonal paper and it's like I didn't write it at all. And it's so far in the past that I don't criticize it as being part of my current style of production. I literally don't remember (inaudible) Almost all of my career at college consisted of writing really long term papers and I would (inaudible) papers. And it's really true. I would almost always get somebody to type them for me and get them to correct the grammar so that I didn't have to read it over. I mean that wasn't the rationale that I used then. The rationale that used then was that I couldn't finish it and...or I couldn't get it in on time unless somebody helped me type it. My roommate was (inaudible) was a better writer than I was and I trusted her to just sort of arrange things so somebody could understand them. It was like really wanting to deny yourself (inaudible) realize so much (inaudible) but that's really true. I'm not sure why or I'm not sure what to do about it. Obviously I've got to do something about it. Like, this weekend, I don't know what the exam's going to consist of but it's...it's either going to be a take home exam which means that I'm going to have all weekend to do it. I would spend all weekend on it; be up all night, each night or at least the last night. I'll come home from the ballet (inaudible) I can see that. I won't enjoy the ballet because of it. And I'll end up...well, I'll end up typing it all night and my typing in that state...I don't really read it if I type at a certain (inaudible) I don't know...maybe I should try (inaudible) I guess part of it involves really being afraid of my own ability to communicate and... 00:37:38
COUNSELOR: You mean afraid....do you mean rather than being afraid...you don't have it being afraid, you do have it?
PATIENT: No. it's being afraid...it's like feeling that I know something and inside somehow I really...before I write a paper of any kind, I make...there's something that I'm really interested in and I really feel like I've come to some kind of a realization, conclusion, formula...something that I really feel is good and I really feel like I've really grasped this thing and like there's really something here to talk about or to present, but at the same time, I feel completely unable to present it. It's like somehow whatever conclusion I've come to or whatever realization I've had, only...it's like I'm the only one that can understand...that can see anything valid in it whatsoever; that's once it's put out to anyone else, there's not going to be any validity in it (inaudible) it's not going to be worthwhile. And I...for the same reason, like I never would talk in class. I would practically...where I might understand that was going on, whenever I have tried to say anything, it would always come out wrong. And I've tried to get myself to change that, as far as the talking in individual situation but even in a very small group kind of thing...but even that is really hard. 00:39:33
COUNSELOR: Yes. You were talking about this writing just a second ago...or something stirring in my memory that I couldn't remember exactly what that the...I felt that you must have...that somehow you had said almost the same thing about talking to other people and I frankly just don't remember when or what or anything about it but just something really stirred there. 
PATIENT: That's yeah...that's probably...I mean I do...it's kind of a different context but I do feel very, very defensive in talking with other people; like I cannot present myself in any kind of good light or (inaudible) or a light that they could understand. And I really don't know how to do it. 
COUNSELOR: I got the (inaudible) terribly sort of cute and interpretive around all this business but it...what occurred to me was when you hand in one of these products as finished under terrific strain and pressure, it's like that doesn't have to count as a product of yours in a sense that's something that was produced under pressure and it's bound to be not as good as you could make it and it's like, I guess, like the pain of that in some way is less than this whatever is in (inaudible) your idea. I'm not sure whether... 00:41:07
PATIENT: No, that (inaudible) It's real...it's a funny thing because, like one thing I've always wanted to be able to do is to write (inaudible) journalism writing...just being able to write down what I see or think of...something like that or creative writing kinds of stuff. I find that the only writing I can do is like keeping some kind of a diary kind of thing and just writing feelings. And they come out pretty well on those things. I mean I really end up capturing what I mean and what I feel pretty well but I'm not writing for anybody else. And I'm not writing grammatically and I'm not writing (inaudible) sort of make into a poem kind of thing. 00:42:05 And a couple of times, friends of mine have read little things that I've written when I couldn't explain what I was trying to say...of what I had felt about a situation and like this really good friend of mine that I used to go with and I just know as a friend ever since, and I would always...one person I could really talk to about almost anything and I felt like he would (inaudible) and one time when I was just really going through a whole lot of stuff...I just sort of showed him something I had written and I couldn't explain (inaudible) really...that he really kind of envied, admired or something the way I could write (inaudible) and I was really surprised at that. Because I just had this feeling that no one else could put...ever understand...not understand but feel what I had tried to say....(inaudible) what I felt and I...that (inaudible) and I will accept as having been...as myself having written and as being satisfied with but when it comes to analytical kinds of writing, or in a sense, when it comes to...I guess when it comes to any kind of social writing...writing in a realm that must be...that pertains to the light of society...it pertains to something outside of myself and it must be accepted by the (inaudible) and conventions and forms that they accept and recognize and stuff, I don't see people who are doing it. 
COUNSELOR: Now it's almost like if there's something that there's more than one or that it's an open question...how you interpret it, kind of; like if you take a topic for a paper, it's an open question how you interpret that topic. It's not so much an open question what you say about yourself, in a sense, like you...
PATIENT: Yeah. I mean that...it's like someone has to accept what I've written about the way I feel. They can't question that.
COUNSELOR: Yes. Yes, they might put some sort of different...I mean they might say well, this is your problem...that's your problem but that's the one thing that you really do know best. 00:44:38 
PATIENT: Right. But you know, when it comes to my skill in things (inaudible) I really am so constantly filled with this anxiety about writing anything. Like, I will never read a real letter that I write to anybody because I just can't bear to see how I've said something. It's really a painful thing for me. And I really...you know, I'll read it over and say, god, this is just full of crap (inaudible) it's rambling or I'll criticize it in a hundred different ways. And I'll always apologize for it and say well, I'm in a hurry now...I can't say anymore and that kind of thing and, in truth, it does comes out being really poor style and...except that I think it's probably kind of a...it comes out being a poor style because I'm petrified of what to write. It's the whole attitude that I go into it with and if I...which is why I don't write letters unless I'm really fantastically in the mood to which is [the rare that's not ever get written] (ph)...a few have got written but if I sit down and write because I'm forced to write...because I have to get this letter to somebody on a certain day, I'm such a wreck the whole time I'm writing it that it's just bound to come out bad. If it comes out half way decent, it's in spite of (inaudible) what kind of attitude I have when I go into it. And I'm really not sure how to change this attitude. Somehow I feel better just talking about it (inaudible) I don't think I've ever thought about it this way. 00:46:46
COUNSELOR: I guess something that was hitting me about the letter business was it's just more of the vicious circle nature; it's like you go into it, let's say, worried that it will come out stupid or something and by...and you're so anxious about that that it really does come out stupid except not because...not that you can't write but because you're anxious. 
PATIENT: Right.
COUNSELOR: But the end product is as bad as you feared it would be and each time it gets reinforced from worrying about it or something. 
PATIENT: I get...I keep feeling I'm spending so much time worrying about being (inaudible) and how I'm living and how I'm (inaudible) that all of my life ends up worrying (inaudible) which is really a horrible state of affairs. 
COUNSELOR: Looks to me like one day you feel paralyzed sometimes because it's like rally the business about the centipede that thinks about how he's walking and suddenly he's just (overlapping voices) and that's sort of a very light way of putting it but when you are so self conscious about either how you're sounding or how you're...how you're being that you lose (inaudible) You feel yourself being constantly sort of vigilant about how you are in situations or doesn't it occur (inaudible)? 00:48:23 
PATIENT: It's very rare situations I'm in (inaudible) and...where was it? I guess it wasn't this week, it was the week before, I went to this party...HD people. But before I went I'd go into [their play, the night I spend in jail, which is] (ph) (inaudible) but I felt so buoyed up by that play and so, in a sense, because I could identify with the role, who didn't care a bit about what anybody thought of him, but was nevertheless a really fantastic person in himself, I really...I felt high, drunk, anything (inaudible) say (inaudible) play. It was like I really couldn't do anything wrong.
COUNSELOR: (overlapping voices) out of all that?
PATIENT: And I went to that party...half the...there...I went just because I wanted to see people because I never saw (inaudible) and everyone was...you know, first thing when I came in, drinks are in there. It's like I had to have a drink before I could talk to anybody else which is what I suddenly sort of...you know, I was...I didn't want one. I didn't need one. And there were various other mentions made to how high people were and stuff like that and I just felt so high and so...for once, that (inaudible) talking with anybody about anything. Usually I would have just walked in there, absolutely petrified. There (inaudible) and very conscious of everything that I said; sort of regretting everything that I said after I said it...realizing it was really stupid and insipid or something. 00:50:14
COUNSELOR: (inaudible) just sort of flailing yourself with that. 
PATIENT: Yeah. And part of me, like, I realized...I was realizing is just now...finding it fairly easy to talk about how it helps because I'm not very anxious now compared to how I usually am. But when I'm really anxious, which is the normal state of affairs, I can't think of words. Like I know the words it is...I learned them once upon a time. My mother is a wise and very fantastic...very; now I can't think of the word...eloquent with words kind of thing...radio host. She could say anything to anybody. It would always come up with the right word and I was never...I always felt inhibited in her presence which she was so compelling (ph) with words that I couldn't say anything at all. I could never say it as well. But at the same time, from just contact with her, you know, I absorbed enough of her style so that when I was in a situation similar to what she would be in, in her position, then I could talk that way. But it would only be when I was completely (inaudible) 00:51:38
COUNSELOR: Yeah, we've had...I was thinking about how you are in here and how you seem in here and I...one thing I was thinking was that I think...I don't know whether it's because you're different in here than you are outside, but in some ways, I think you...you seem...if you are...if you feel anxious and self conscious in here, many times you cover it up very well. You do...you don't...you see into, often, what you're talking about. Sometimes I have the sense that you're being more pleasant than you feel...I don't mean that you're holding back hostile feelings but you...that you are struggling to be cheerful maybe. But...and now that you say that about struggling for the words, yeah, I think...I feel like that's happened. You know, where I've pressed you...now be specific; what do you mean; I'd like to know an example and that's been hard but generally I...a lot of times that doesn't show. And I don't know whether that's, you know, whether that's good or bad for you. I mean whether it's good to hear that or not or how you feel about it if it's so or....
PATIENT: Part...I mean a good part of me is going to...a lot of times (inaudible) you know, in just a regular central situation. I'm less worried about inability to talk kind of...I feel a little captive in here where I would feel (inaudible) So (inaudible) 00:53:17
COUNSELOR: Yeah. Yeah, I know that (inaudible) that's one main thing that always seems to be uncomfortable (inaudible)
PATIENT: (inaudible) and it really is a really different kind of situation. (inaudible) no longer (inaudible) 
COUNSELOR: Did that...did my saying that do something to you? I sense you're crabby (ph)...retreating or...I don't mean that in a defensive way but...
PATIENT: Not...only in that I really don't know what to do yet. 
COUNSELOR: Yeah. 
PATIENT: Like it's that I cover up and I (inaudible) well.
COUNSELOR: Or if you're feeling anxious, you are covering it up. 00:54:40
PATIENT: Yeah. The only thing I can think of is I'm probably not feeling very anxious because I'm usually in (inaudible) covering it up. Except the only way I can cover it up is not to say a word. And to take some kind of a very (inaudible) because I mean I've...for a long time I didn't realize this but I finally had people that I was close enough to, you know, just say (inaudible) when I thought I was covering up very well...and I probably used to. I probably used to cover it up a lot (inaudible) just seem like I'm really upset, nervous (inaudible) 
COUNSELOR: (inaudible) came through the phone (inaudible) 
PATIENT: Yeah, that was...
COUNSELOR: But that reminds me...I just want to say I was really sorry that we were so rushed at the end of last hour because it's so important that...I mean, that you did get all that out, what you were saying but also...like, I didn't get a chance to ...we didn't get a chance to do anything with it and it felt good to me. I really hate that when...
PATIENT: Yeah. It's still there. Like I really thought it was (inaudible) because I felt like I had to because I felt like I'd really gotten a lot out of it and (inaudible) and for some of...like I really felt like I've gotten a lot out of today that I didn't expect to get. I probably should go home and write about that too before I forget it. (inaudible) as far as feelings. But I think that...like I would really like to follow up on some of the stuff that I said today, as well. 00:56:33
COUNSELOR: That brings to mind another thing which was...as things go by so quickly I'm...I sort of think slow and I often think about things later and come up with...you said, at one point last time, about whether I felt comfortable stepping outside the class (inaudible) framework, or something like that and it feels to me like I don't have any stock thing that I do or I...I mean like I...I don't have any principle; like I don't do anything but reflect feelings...there are some things I don't feel that comfortable doing. But I'm willing to try lots of things; like I don't feel comfortable telling people what to do. 
PATIENT: Right. 
COUNSELOR: But I don't know...I'm not really (inaudible) reflect the feelings and I'm willing to...for us to try things that aren't just talking about (inaudible)
PATIENT: I kind of felt that today...to be...you know, the beginning when I just said...you know, I felt like I could ask you what your scheduling thing had been, where I might not have...there are some time that I really didn't feel that way. That I...or I couldn't ask you to say anything that was beyond what I had (inaudible) and I think I understand your position. And also mine as far as (inaudible) but, in fact, what I might have been looking for you to say something to get me out of it beyond reflecting my hate feelings that you really couldn't tell me what to do. (inaudible) 00:58:05
COUNSELOR: I think I must...you know, I feel much more comfortable than I did a couple of years ago. I don't know...like doing things like talking about scheduling stuff but I wonder if I...I must give off some sort of signals because I apparently come across as being much more orthodox or feeling that...make people think that I want to be much more orthodox than I rally even think I want to be, if you know what I mean. That sounded a little confused. But like, I'm not all that interested in reflecting feelings. I do; it's basic and important but it's not as important as I must make people feel that it is or something. 
PATIENT: It's partly their expectations too. I've gone through a lot of courses and heard a lot of (inaudible) therapy kinds of things (inaudible) 
COUNSELOR: Okay. Next week at this time okay? As far as you know... (inaudible) 
PATIENT: If I survive the weekend, I'll be here on (inaudible) 
COUNSELOR: Two and seven is nine. 
END TRANSCRIPT
