TRANSCRIPT OF AUDIO FILE:
______________________________________________________________________________
BEGIN TRANSCRIPT:
COUNSELOR: So how are things going?
PATIENT: Good.
COUNSELOR: Yeah?
PATIENT: No more spotting. That's good. And I had a doctor's appointment last week. I saw the heart again. But she said that the baby was still small so she thinks that they're off on the due date. She thinks it's actually due later than what they originally said. So I'll be back in this neighborhood on Tuesday to get an ultrasound at the hospital. So that's a relief.
COUNSELOR: Yeah. You seem relieved by that.
PATIENT: (Inaudible) especially because after I had that inflammation then I haven't had any more spotting which is very relieving. So now I can deal with all of the (inaudible). And Tony and I addressed this whole tiredness issue because during the - I forget when it was - like Thursday night I said I want my kitchen clean. My ceiling collapsed Wednesday. I was homesick.
COUNSELOR: Wow.
PATIENT: You know like I had been irritable on Tuesday. And Wednesday I was like I couldn't get out of bed. And they were hammering upstairs so I just didn't want to go to work. I decided to go see one client because he was leaving town. And I came home.
And there were all of these guys in my apartment and they're supposed to be upstairs not in mine. And the floor didn't collapse but the - I guess in the older houses under the ply - under the boards they put cement. And then they put the tin ceiling. And it because the tin ceiling was bad the old owner said he was going to try a drop ceiling. So those three layers came off all over my kitchen. And everything was dusty. I wasn't very happy and called Tony. I'm like I'm not cleaning these dishes. I'm not doing any of this. I just came home because I'm sick. You know just don't have energy to clean all of this stuff. And there was dust - it's already dusty to begin with and it was just dirty like pieces of cement and everything.
And then that night I said you know are you going to help me clean the kitchen? He laughed. He's like no. So I said well then I'm not going to do it either. He said why and got really upset. And I said well because you're not doing it. He said oh well I have to do everything around here. And I looked at him. And I was really upset by him saying that. It's not like I don't want to help. I just really haven't felt like it at all.
So I just stayed quiet for a little bit. I glared at him a little bit. And then I sat there and kind of thought about it. I was real angry. And then when the time was right I said you know what you're right. I have something growing inside of me. I'm not feeling well. It's like a lot of stress. But you're right. You do everything. I'm not doing anything. (Inaudible). [2:54]
Like I did it like a kind of sarcastic but not angry. And he said I'm sorry. And then the next day we wrote some e-mails back and forth and just kind of you know he said maybe you should go to one of our parents' house for a little while if you're so stressed. Because I wrote down all of the things I'm worried about.
But (inaudible) doctor's appointment on Friday we were both jumping around. That was good. It was the only major argument we've had. So this guy that he - said I was right which he doesn't say very often. And I said I'm kind of annoyed being in this dusty place. But only a few more days and I might move upstairs. It's clean and bright and lots of windows and (inaudible).
COUNSELOR: Wow. That's great.
PATIENT: And I'm feeling better. I'm still tired but you know.
COUNSELOR: That (inaudible).
PATIENT: Right.
COUNSELOR: of your pregnancy. Yeah.
PATIENT: The only thing I've noticed is that if I'm - something is bothering me, it's really hard for me to not let it bother me. Like an example is last night I have this client. And her - the client mailed her checks. She never got it. She's been really upset. It's been going on since Christmas. And I got the check. I got the copy of the cancelled check like with the deposit account number because she didn't deposit it. But somebody did. And it occurred to me that my company probably - I've been upset because they've been opening my mail at work which I think is - there's absolutely no reason to do that. So it occurred to me that probably they opened my mail, took out this check and deposited it even though it didn't have their name on it.
So I was angry about that. And then I couldn't stop thinking about it. You know I was watching TV and during a commercial I was thinking about it and getting angry about it. And it just stayed in my mind. And I dreamed about it last night.
And it happens to me sometimes but I find that anything that's bothering like Tony and I had a discussion about the light switches. I had picked like an ivory. It didn't look good against the walls. And so I said well it doesn't look bad in some rooms. And then that night I was like oh my God I don't want those ivory (laughs) light cases on my walls. And I wonder if we can change them. And did Tony talk to them about changing. Why did I pick them? That's not like me to worry about those kinds of things.
So maybe you can give me some exercises about how to help my mind. I mean I don't like I can stop it if its like a hormonal thing. But I think there has to be a way for me to control it so that it's not getting the better of me. [5:34]
COUNSELOR: Well and I mean I'm noticing a couple of things this evening. And one of them is that you seem to be having trouble kind of taking in a deep breath. That there's sort of shallow breathing that you're doing.
PATIENT: Yeah. I think it's the - my sinuses because I've been having so much trouble with my sinuses for the past couple of months. Because earlier today I was really short of breath. And I was talking and it's about (inaudible). You know whenever I think it's the - that I'm not breathing in because I'm having. I think my nose is totally stuffed. And I.
COUNSELOR: Is it - is it an anxiety at all? I mean do you (inaudible) aware of being nervous or uncomfortable?
PATIENT: Not right now. I'm aware that I've been having trouble breathing. Like you can tell that my voice is just (inaudible). I just take a deep breath - like it's very difficult for me to do that.
COUNSELOR: The other thing that's really been on my mind. And I've been thinking about this you know since you've actually told me about the pregnancy is I guess I'm really struggling to kind of be - maybe similar to something that you're experiencing through this. Be you know enthusiastic about the pregnancy and support you around that because I think it's like - it's an amazing thing to - for you to be going through.
And at the same time I feel like before you brought this up we were really. You know we were at a point where we were talking about your relationship with Tony and that you were even at a certain point contemplating leaving him. And I'm wondering you know where you're at with that. And have you been thinking about that as well?
PATIENT: I - I obviously have been distracted so I haven't thought about it that much. But I mean he's been much more responsive to me - more like what he use to be in the beginning. So it's easier for me not to think about where I was just a few weeks ago. Because I was thinking about it even more than we talked about it here.
I think that these issues will all come up again. I just don't want to think about when they will. You know like he's been more communicative. We've been able to have more conversations. And those are some of the things I was really working for and wasn't getting. You know?
I couldn't get him to communicate. Couldn't get him to you know come home. He'd have a drink and turn on the TV and like that was it. And now I feel more comfortable expressing myself. And I find him more responsive to me. So I feel like if he can stay this way. You know maybe he just needed that something that made him be more responsive then things could work out. I don't know. [8:23]
COUNSELOR: I mean it's a - and I have hesitated saying - you know on saying anything because I could image that in your condition right now you're not interested in looking at that. You know?
PATIENT: Right.
COUNSELOR: But there's also a part of me that feels like yeah, but you know this is how it's been going. And for my own just sort of understanding of how things are it's possible but highly unlikely that things will actually change permanently in a way that you're hoping they'll change. Like where he's going to be just very supportive and very understanding, very communicative.
PATIENT: I mean I like - I like in - I mean I know that especially when the kid is a little bit older like I know Tony and I will have a really hard time with discipline because we're so different minded. And I could see a lot of those traits that I don't like coming out again. You know like he's right all of the time. And if I don't agree with him and then you know I'll try to stick up for the kid.
And it's such a pattern that my parents had that I'm really afraid of happening. And I think by that time I would still aim for Tony and I - I mean I still want Tony and I to go to counseling especially when the kid is young before we have to encounter all of those things. Because I know it will be a hard issue for me to tackle by myself. Like I know if he goes back into the regular way that he is you know which is just like how his dad is (inaudible) dad's are pretty similar. Then I would be in a very similar situation again. You know my mom and my parent's marriage was very quiet - didn't speak. I told you, right? Like I didn't even.
COUNSELOR: You haven't really described it in detail.
PATIENT: My parents - what I remember of my parents is that my mother only was really nice and fun to be around. But like at the dinner table if my dad cracked a joke she never laughed. So she never participated in the discussions. She was very just quiet. Like I'd and even when I would talk to my mom it was still very like - it wasn't like a personal relationship. And she's my mom. And I talk to her. But you know I.
COUNSELOR: You mean like an intimate - like a close relationship?
PATIENT: Right. Like I disliked my dad.
COUNSELOR: Was it between them or between you and your mother?
PATIENT: Between me and my mother.
COUNSELOR: Okay. [10:53]
PATIENT: Like I disliked my dad. But I still felt closer to my dad because he was so - just talking. And we talked all of the time. I felt like my mother didn't talk to me. And I found out in retrospect she was miserable in marriage. And she was really unhappy. And she never - never was you know all of these things that she is now which is the woman that I can really spend a lot of time with.
So I would not want to see myself in that position. You know? I think Tony has that tendency to be a very dominating person in the family. So I would still push for that counseling. But you know I don't. I think with the baby and a lot of things just happening that it's okay to that you know now with the six month regulation to do that after the baby is born but still small enough that it doesn't - it's not something that we have to address right away.
COUNSELOR: And do you know the recommendation that you not go into counseling for six months is not like a hard and fast rule. They do make some exceptions.
PATIENT: Right.
COUNSELOR: And.
PATIENT: I just think that even if I wanted to now it would be too busy. You know with the house and how I'm feeling and you know because I probably won't work afterwards. I want to get my own (inaudible) (laughs) before I leave. So. I mean now it doesn't feel as you know when I first heard it I was like oh my God what am I going to do for six months? And now I feel like well it's going to be a busy - long time anyway so.
COUNSELOR: So are there any - I mean how does it feel right now to be discussing this? Because I felt like it was in the room. And I really held back on saying anything because I was I guess wanting to be very supportive around the pregnancy and not you know bring you down in a way.
PATIENT: No. I think last week I could tell that you were very excited. You know I don't feel like you bringing this up means like you're oh well you really shouldn't have gotten pregnant. You know? I mean yeah I honestly haven't thought about it. But I mean I know these issues will come up again. But I think that I just because I'm so stressed out about other stuff I just don't think about it.
These discussions that Tony and I have had - I haven't felt that same like scared you know? Remember when we were talking I just felt really scared. And I don't feel that anymore when I'm talking to him. And when I get angry like I did - if I was really upset you know I was sick and (inaudible) and whatever. And he said - he goes everything. And I feel guilty that I can't do much. But I really don't feel that bad. I mean I can't. So being able to tell him that and him say yeah you're right or. I don't know. He probably didn't say sorry - that he was sorry. (laughs) But you know in his own way that was very nice for me. [13:42]
COUNSELOR: And when you talk about it now what's it like to actually be focusing on the relationship with you and Tony and you know concerns?
PATIENT: It's okay. I mean I've just been - I'm just on a little positive high from being able to assert myself over the last couple of weeks.
COUNSELOR: Assert yourself with him?
PATIENT: Right.
COUNSELOR: Yeah.
PATIENT: So. It's not hard on me because I guess I'm not thinking what's going to happen.
COUNSELOR: Right.
PATIENT: (Inaudible). I mean I've been thinking about it but not really much.
COUNSELOR: How does it feel to have me bring it up?
PATIENT: (Inaudible). It shows me that you know me and pay attention to what I'm saying rather than me always. Because sometimes really I don't know what. You know I use to always come in with an agenda. And when you said that I don't know what a statute (ph) is. (laughs)
COUNSELOR: Boy was I confusing then?
PATIENT: So now. So now it's nice to know that we're both on the same page. In the beginning I was like I'm going to have to explain so much to her. And how's she ever going to (inaudible) (laughs) whatever I'm coming from? And did she really need to know that.
And you're thinking about some things that maybe I'm thinking about and.
COUNSELOR: Well you know I was - I was wondering about it because as you talked about feeling easily frustrated, kind of being on edge a little bit like things that normally don't bother you are bothering you. And I was wondering if there was in the background of it all the fact that you're still kind of concerned about. And you're not sure you want to think about right now for whatever reason.
PATIENT: Do you think that could be contributing to why I felt this in these other things?
COUNSELOR: It certainly could be one of those - that's a possibility. I'm wondering are there other things that come up for you that you're concerned about around the pregnancy and your relationship with Tony? And how that will be (inaudible) different or challenged?
PATIENT: I mean we've been having a lot of discussions about money. And I've told you this little nature he has about money.
COUNSELOR: (Inaudible).
PATIENT: And I told you last week about the computer and buying all of the stuff. And I told him I'm really stressed about money. And then I was like I just like the only thing I want to buy upstairs is a new bedroom set. And then you know the shower door and the closets I guess if you custom make closets they're like a fortune. I have no idea. And just to get a rod in my shower and a shelf in my closet a shelf I guess wasn't included in the costs. Like 50 bucks here. Fifty dollars for the shelf. And it really added up.
And I told Tony like I just you know I have my own - I'm not as outspoken as he is but I have my own agenda of what I want to see happening in my house. You know I didn't care about wires and this and that but I cared about colors which in the end I end up getting. Which worked out pretty well. Because we went through the (inaudible), painted everything the way. We joined decided to work and went back to the colors we originally decided. And there's just certain things that I want. And I want a bedroom set. And Tony's like we can't afford it. [16:45]
And I'm just thinking you know what. He can buy all of this stuff. I can't buy the stuff that I want.
COUNSELOR: This has been a long standing kind of thing.
PATIENT: Right.
COUNSELOR: That you've been struggling with. Yeah.
PATIENT: And then you know his defense when anything's going on like I'm stressed about cleaning or why he won't pick up his underwear and put them in a laundry basket. It's like you can hire a maid. But then I think well how can I hire a maid because it costs. You know. Like I hired some help because I just don't want to lift all of the stuff this weekend. And we took off that money. The woman I hired is going to bring her daughter which is even more of a relief. Because I was afraid even one person wouldn't be enough. But I don't know.
Like this may sound - $1,400 for a shower door - a custom made shower door. And Tony's like yeah. It's $600 for a vanity. And Tony just said yeah. I mean is there no negotiating. I felt that he would negotiate a little bit. And then they put in new hard wood floors. And I was like well we're going to use rugs. We don't really need this. We can paint and bla, bla, bla.
And then on the other hand I'm stressed because he's like well we don't have any money. We're going to be $1,500 - $15,000 short at the end of the thing. And we still have to buy all of our furniture and you know.
COUNSELOR: So what is it that you want from Tony as your describing this?
PATIENT: I don't know. I want there to be some you know like maybe a budget. I don't know where he keeps track of what we're spending. I don't know what - how much money we have. You know I know we're getting money from his company thing he got. That it was in two portions - a third up front and two thirds later. So I know. I feel uncomfortable talking about money (laughs) here. But I know it should be about a million.
COUNSELOR: Wow.
PATIENT: I think before taxes - after taxes. I don't know. But so and I don't know where any of our money is, right? We have that joint checking account which he didn't put money in for a long time. And he still has a bank account. And now I have only this joint account with him.
But he puts in money whenever I need it. But it's very like - I just don't get it. I feel uncomfortable because I don't know - I don't know where he gets his figures. I don't his - he gets his budget. I don't know.
COUNSELOR: So it sounds like there's an absence of communication around this so you feel left out.
PATIENT: Right.
COUNSELOR: Of the whole process.
PATIENT: But then I tell him like you know can you tell me what - how much I'm spending on everything? And he'll say well we've been over this a hundred times. So when we were looking for appliances I had written down you know how much he was looking to spend. And our budget was totally - didn't add up to any of those figures or we. It was just a lot of things. Like we went and shopped for all of this furniture and way before we even started working on our house. And then Tony's saying well we can't buy any bedroom furniture. [19:36]
And I said well why did you make me go to all of those places? And then he says well you should find out - I don't know what I wanted. (laughs) So he's like okay find out which places have interest free or credit and we'll get something. And I just feel like every day it's something new. He changes his mind some much that there's no way for me to keep track. And so then when I say oh I thought we were doing this, he's like you know we're not doing that anymore. But I had no idea that we weren't doing that anymore. (laughs) So. At least because he's talking more now I have more of an idea of how many times he changes his mind. (laughs)
COUNSELOR: So how do you image a child entering the relationship? How do you image it's going to alter the relationship? Do you have any idea?
PATIENT: Well I think because I will be the person that's home and taking care of the child more that I would have ultimately more responsibility over that area. You know like Tony has so much responsibility over the house. And my responsibility is making sure the house is clean and organized. You know we have like a very set things that we do. And it.
COUNSELOR: Kind of a pretty traditional sort of.
PATIENT: Yeah. Pretty.
COUNSELOR: Yeah.
PATIENT: And so I think I would enjoy having the respect of having that responsibility. I mean Tony's not an expert in that. He can't say I know the stuff. And I'm pretty confident that I will be very good at it. (laughs) So. I mean it won't be easy.
COUNSELOR: You mean the running of the house?
PATIENT: Right.
COUNSELOR: Okay.
PATIENT: And raising a child. So I don't know. I think that we'll still have these communication problems. But I mean I feel like now because I'm not - I mean if you'll notice I'm not saying as much like I forgot - like I can't remember. I mean there are things I still can't remember but.
COUNSELOR: So that's not happening as often? [21:36]
PATIENT: That's not - he can't use that as an excuse. Because remember that I told you that I thought that he was just saying that because he didn't remember sometimes that? So I always just when he said that he told me that I just always assumed that he did. But now there's starting to be times when he would say things and I was like no. I know absolutely that's not what you said. So now it's been more of a - I don't know why. I just - I don't know where I was going with this. But now at least I know that I can argue with him more comfortably and stick up for myself better. And I don't feel - how would I say - I don't feel uncomfortable disagreeing with him or pointing out when he's wrong. So I'm hoping that over time when he can see that it will be something that he will have to. You know he can't just always think he's an expert on it all of the time.
COUNSELOR: So do you - do you have any idea what's helped you to make you feel more - it sounds like more confident in what you remember, what he might have not remembered?
PATIENT: It's not I mean I sort of like to think it's here but I don't know like one thing you did that made it that directly. Now maybe just.
COUNSELOR: That's a fair answer.
(Laughter)
PATIENT: Focusing.
COUNSELOR: Because it seems to be kind of complex.
PATIENT: Right. Maybe just because we focus on it here I focus on it more at home and like you know. Maybe just talking out - I don't know. I mean I haven't figured out why I don't - I no longer feel put on the spot when he says something to me. I was trying to figure out is it his tone? Because he is less likely to give me that silent treatment, rolling your eyes or am I just sensitive to that. You know do I feel like I'm right more often so I don't have to be afraid of what he's saying. I don't know. Maybe it's just.
COUNSELOR: It seems to me like there's a part of you that's more - I don't know sort of honoring your position in whatever happens between the two of you. That you're not necessarily off the mark or that you're making a big deal out of it then it is. That you're willing to kind of entertain the thought that yeah this may be legitimate what I'm feeling. [24:04]
PATIENT: Yeah. I mean yeah I would think that I persist because I don't think anything else is really changed with us. That - that the thing of that when we move everything will be better. Well we haven't moved yet. (laughs) So you know I mean and even if I don't move upstairs it's still going to be another couple of months before the house is ready. So it's not that. And this change was happening even before I found out that I was pregnant. And it's like a slow - I mean it helps now because I feel like I have a right to stick up for myself if I don't feel like doing something or I'm tired. If I don't feel like cooking a certain thing that I don't feel as guilty.
COUNSELOR: You use to feel guilty when you would refuse to do certain things or?
PATIENT: I think. I think well now the cleaning stuff I don't feel guilty. It just clouded me. Because I knew he'd never do it. And I'm not a neat freak but I'm definitely not dirty. Like I during the week my clothes can - clothes can end up all over for a little while. But just on the weekends when I'm at home all of the time I just don't want that. And if I don't clean it. If I don't do the dishes. Then I don't - it don't happen. And the cooking you know if Tony cooks more than once or twice a week then he gets really irritable and says well you know I cooked last night bla, bla, bla.
COUNSELOR: I was wondering. I was just thinking about what you said about your relationship. What you experienced your parents' relationship to be like. Is this something - I mean you did say that you're concerned about that happening with your relationship. What do you think is going to help not have you know not go in that direction as far as your relationship goes or?
PATIENT: I - I mean just a lot. I mean my parents both talk to me a lot about their relationship. Not everything that I agree with but I know that both of my parents they can hold a grudge forever. My mom remembers everything my father did from - to her since the day they met and vice versa. So you know? My dad also always thought that he could do better than my mom. And either somebody told my mom that or maybe my dad acted like that. I don't really know exactly how it happened.
I don't like my dad thought he was better. I think that's my dad's way. My dad's I think as a really low self confidence. Like he just puts other people down to make himself feel better. Like my wedding toast was like that. You know his compliments are like that. That's just how he is. [26:37]
And my mom in turn felt like she had something to prove all of the time. Which is why my mother always told you like she'll give you advice everything. She doesn't - if you bring up a topic she'll talk about it because she knows about it. It's not that she wants to tell you what to do. It's I think she just wants to like prove that she knows stuff.
You know like Tony thinks she's always lecturing him. But I know it just - she wants to prove to people she knows stuff. But she's very - actually very smart. I do know I definitely didn't want to be that person that remembers everything you know.
COUNSELOR: So I guess I'm wondering how are you and Tony different in you know now?
PATIENT: In that? Well one Tony is not a violent person which I'm so thankful for because my dad is. Like he never hit my mother but still like it just you know that type of thing I think really affected the relationship. Even though he never hit her you know the fact that it was there. I think and I would like to think that even if Tony is not communicating back to me I know him well enough to know that he would listen.
So he will - I mean he doesn't it with everything. He argues with people all of the time. And then in the end you hear him repeating back whatever that point he argued about was. So if I say something you know about pregnancy. Then he'll be like oh that's not true bla, bla, bla. I would very easily - likely hear him on the phone with somebody repeating that fact as if he knew it. Do you know what I mean? So.
COUNSELOR: So even though he can't acknowledge that what he's (inaudible) like he's taking in he actually does take in.
PATIENT: Right. Like he'll argue because he likes to be right all of the time but in the end I know he's listening. You know like he was getting mad at me all over the place about telling people that I was pregnant. Because I asked to use the phone. I said I want to call my best friend's parents and let them know. And he's like I don't want everybody to know bla, bla, bla.
And then he was on the phone and told two people. And he's like don't you want to call Jane's parents? I said well you ruined the whole moment for me. Because when you yelled at me about telling Jane's parents something that's supposed to be very exciting and you went and told two people because you're excited so what - I mean why do that? And you know you ruined the whole moment for me. And he's like oh. And he didn't know that he brought it up.
And I said how many people did you tell today? He's like only one. And I counted out the four that he told me he told. And he was like okay.
COUNSELOR: Now is this different for you as well kind of confronting him on stuff like that or is that something?
PATIENT: Yeah. Because like I said anytime I was put on the spot I couldn't think. I couldn't you know I - I would think later oh I could have said you know whatever. But I couldn't because I couldn't even think like my brain would just freeze. And now yeah it is different for me. [29:37]
COUNSELOR: What about here as far as you feeling like you're being put on the spot or you know the kinds of questions that I've been asking you today? Have you felt that way?
PATIENT: (Inaudible) felt that way. I mean I have felt that way here sometimes. I think you can tell that though when I feel it. A little today. I think last week when you said you felt that I was holding back I think I was caught off guard. But again I agreed with you that I was. I just wasn't acknowledging that so it didn't bother me.
COUNSELOR: Yeah I remember you said you weren't really in the mood to talk and you just.
PATIENT: Yeah. I was tired. I was tired this morning too. I was like maybe I'll cancel. And then I was like no. I had to see how this day goes. Like a - and I guess our - because our ceiling collapsed I have no insulation. And I sleep in the back of the house. And it's just really cold. I was up all night. And then I was dreaming about that stupid check. (laughs) But that (inaudible).
COUNSELOR: What do you make about - what do you make of that dream?
PATIENT: I think it's- I was trying not to think about it because I knew it was bothering me. And I could see it - feel my jaws getting clenched and. So I didn't think about it. And then I was thinking about how cold I was. And I think it was just on my mind.
I mean the dream is weird. It was - the check issue. I mean I confronted my boss which I ended up doing anyway today about why this is happening and how much that I've complained about the mail being opened. And then our client wants to press criminal charges. But it's just a lot of work for me to have dealt with for three months until I find out that we've got somebody that's disrespectful enough to open my mail. You know this happened. It doesn't.
COUNSELOR: An invasion of privacy.
PATIENT: Right.
COUNSELOR: And lack of control.
PATIENT: Right. And it's not only that but I've been complaining about it for a while. Because I just don't understand it. And I told them. I said the work - the mail I get at work is just usually from my clients. It's not a big deal. But it's the fact that my mail is being opened when it clearly says my name on it. You know if you open a piece of mail and you find out on the inside it's mine. It's no big deal. But consistently pieces of mail are being opened that are not addressed to anybody but me. It doesn't you know.
I was mad about that. I was mad about the wasted stress and phone calls that this woman shrieking at me because she hasn't been paid. Who I happen to like and respect as a worker will now probably - there's too much bad blood between us I think for us to work well together. I think it was just on my mind. [31:58]
And then this - the head of our operations, he's so. There's all of this stuff going on at work only it's politics. Like I'm now not allowed to speak to the accounting department. Either I or anybody on my side of the office, we're not allowed to go over to the corporate side. But I'm now in charge of my own clients' accounting. So now I'm getting all of the billing questions. And accounting's not done well. And it's just a disaster. It's just very annoying.
And I'm mad because it was that the CFO decided that we couldn't go over there. Because we were bothering her people. But you know I have to deal with all the billing problems. I'm paid for that time I spend. It's just. I don't know. I just (laughs) one of those things that maybe I'm getting bitchier as I get pregnant. But I - when I talk to people I want them also to be the same way.
COUNSELOR: You're worried that that's what be happening?
PATIENT: No. I'm actually kind of amused by it. (laughs) Not worrying you know? Because I'm not generally like that. And even when I'm bitchy I'm not out of control ranting and raving. I'm just more assertive which is fun to me. I don't.
You know I wasn't in a really good mood today. But there was this kid outside that was so cute. That definitely made me in a better mood.
COUNSELOR: Was (inaudible) making you feel (inaudible)?
PATIENT: No. I was just - oh, just because I was tired with a lot of people. And I don't know that whole thing. Because tomorrow I have to deal with invoices. And I have to deal with this guy at work who's really but I guess there's some people now that's really just self (inaudible). No matter what you say they're right about everything. So I'm not looking forward to that tomorrow.
And I thought I was going to take a half day tomorrow but now because of the billing I can't. But (inaudible).
COUNSELOR: So that's weird you know one of the things that I was thinking about too is you know up until now we've been working on stuff that's been happening between you and Tony and all of the stuff that you've been kind of struggling with. And now with the pregnancy I feel like hum what can we focus on? Where do we kind of go from here? [34:25]
PATIENT: Right. I don't know really. I know we only have a few more sessions left. (laughs) Which is kind of weighing on my mind. And.
COUNSELOR: How do you feel about that?
PATIENT: Obviously I'm (inaudible) (laughs) going to end. You know I think - I was trying to figure out if last week I was uninterested in getting involved. Because I don't want to get involved because I know it's ending or I didn't want to get involved because I was tired.
COUNSELOR: Kind of like bring up anything?
PATIENT: Right.
COUNSELOR: Because you know we have five more sessions, right?
PATIENT: Yeah.
COUNSELOR: Because it feels like.
PATIENT: Because I always feel like there are less. And we talked about it last week. I don't know. I think that there will be things that will come up. I think last week addressing my non-optimistic attitude was good for me because it's hard. You know everybody I talked to they're just like jumping up and down and beaming. And at that time I wasn't feeling that way. And you know for Tony he was encouraging but he knew the same things I knew. So it was like talking. There wasn't really - he was like don't be stressed. It's not good for you. And I was just kind of irritable in the beginning of the week and at the end he's like well maybe you need to go away for a week.
COUNSELOR: Is there a part of you that - I know that you said you thought that there fewer sessions than there actually are. Is there a part of you that kind of - that's feeling mixed about therapy at this point? That there - that you wish that it was done with or that you know further than we actually are?
PATIENT: No. I've been thinking about changing the times though. I think that (inaudible) is just packed for me. I noticed it last session and this session like how - just because I've been going home earlier. I mean I don't know. I think I'm just not really looking forward to the sessions ending but they're - because I like coming here for every Tuesday for it seems like forever. You know what it will be like not to be here. Like I can't picture how different it will be to be all (inaudible). [36:44]
(Phone Ringing)
PATIENT: But it's nice to because for a long time when I was feeling like I don't know if this is helping me or not. So to be here today and talk about how comfortable I feel speaking up for myself and you know even if I can't contribute all of it to here. I think that it has - I don't know how it's made a difference but it has. You know I'm still feeling - I wish I would be able to say okay when I was here that day that's when it got better. I don't think I really have answers to the why I behaved that way before. And why I'm not behaving that way now except for a little bit better understanding that that was how I was behaving.
COUNSELOR: How would it help to be able to say clearly you know it was this that actually made the difference in?
PATIENT: I mean I just like to feel like I've been doing everything for a purpose. Like you know I would like to say oh I have this epiphany and that happened. I don't think like I've had like a revelation here where I've been like wow I never thought about it. But I think there's been a lot of little ones. I've been like well maybe I'm doing something this way or maybe I need to look at this.
COUNSELOR: Has that been disappointing for you in terms of you know expecting maybe a big like thing?
PATIENT: My life should be better. Yeah. Oh course. Like we talked about when I come here and just wanted somebody to say you know this is how you're going to fix everything. Like and I can't have that. So it would be ideal. You know to have - you don't have to put any work into it. And somebody goes okay well this is what you're going to do and that will fix it and everything will be better. (laughs)
COUNSELOR: Yeah.
PATIENT: And so and for the beginning of our session I was feeling like I don't know if this is really helping me. But I enjoyed your company and I felt comfortable around you. So it wasn't like oh I don't want to go. It was just like I wonder if this is going to help me.
COUNSELOR: And I remember you saying that at least once. But you didn't say it that often about your concerns about whether or not you were benefiting from being here - meeting with me.
PATIENT: (Inaudible) about it but I mean but then I was looking like how is it different? And now that I haven't really been looking I know that at least it's confirming to talk and maybe my goals of what I have wanted when I first started were different than what. You know like I enjoy having some time having somebody talking to me and listening and being able to you know just get things off of my chest.
COUNSELOR: Do you know what may have stopped you from actually letting me know that you were feeling like maybe this wasn't helping? [39:31]
PATIENT: Not like (inaudible) (laughs)
COUNSELOR: You don't like (inaudible)?
PATIENT: Right.
COUNSELOR: Yeah. So I might take it personally? You would feel like I was being affected?
PATIENT: Right.
COUNSELOR: Because it's (inaudible).
PATIENT: I don't think you would hold it against me but I still wouldn't want you to think that. I wouldn't want something like that said to me. (laughs) I don't and people say it's a really good time actually. (laughs) My work. My plan. What exactly are you doing for me here? Because I really need you. You're really expensive.
You know I'm like - I feel like I have to explain to them. And I don't think I really wanted to. I think I didn't want to say it and hurt your feelings. And I also think I didn't want an explanation that probably wouldn't satisfy me. (laughs) You know like it - I mean I know it takes time. I mean I know (inaudible). (laughs)
COUNSELOR: What's it like to talk like this right now?
PATIENT: I don't know. I'm a little uncomfortable about it. (laughs) It's okay.
COUNSELOR: Well what's uncomfortable about it?
PATIENT: I'm just talking about something that I was originally uncomfortable talking about. I just feel.
COUNSELOR: Around - without hurting my feelings and so on.
PATIENT: Right. So. So obviously I'm a little uncomfortable about it. I was like you have to answer my question about what you've always had (inaudible) with. (laughs)
COUNSELOR: That's right. You - we ended last week with you asking me that. Yeah I'm going to miss meeting with you. I mean this has been - this is really an interesting experience. And maybe with you talking about the issues we have brought up.
PATIENT: I think I was afraid in the beginning that you were going to be like well this is so boring. (laughs) Where is she going? But I think probably even before the middle I felt like we were connecting better. You know it wasn't just me. Like in the beginning it was (inaudible) just talking about why. And then especially when you started asking me questions I felt like okay well now she's not just having to listen to me go on and on. (laughs)
COUNSELOR: So you were afraid you were - that I was getting bored with the things that you were sharing?
PATIENT: I don't think it was anything you did. I think anybody in your situation would be like you know maybe these problems are less than other things I've worked on.
COUNSELOR: I mean honestly there were certain things that were really (inaudible) interesting than others. When you really talked about relationship stuff that really was very interesting to me. And when you shared a lot about your you know your emotional experience with different situations. Yeah you asked me if I was going to miss you.
PATIENT: Right.
COUNSELOR: And I'm sure I will. You know?
PATIENT: (Inaudible). (laughs)
COUNSELOR: Well I feel like I'm wondering how you're going to feel with this treatment ending and what that's going to be like. [42:31]
PATIENT: Like I said I don't - I don't know what it's going to be like.
COUNSELOR: Yeah.
PATIENT: I'm sad and disappointed. I wish that it wasn't you know like. Like I had asked you if there - can we continue this outside. And I know you really can't.
COUNSELOR: You mean continue us working together?
PATIENT: Right.
COUNSELOR: And is there an upside to it coming to an end? Are there things that you're looking forward to in coming to a close?
PATIENT: Time. You know? My day finishing a little earlier on Tuesday. But not - I mean it really hasn't been because the location has been ideal for me it really - I don't think. I feel relieved except that the time seems like a little bit weird in how our. (laughs)
COUNSELOR: Yeah.
PATIENT: It's been beneficial.
COUNSELOR: What about in terms of talking about some heavy stuff? And not having to do that.
PATIENT: I mean I like talking about. I like to leave my emotions out. I'm afraid that when we stop then I won't have that outlet. Because Tony is just not that person. But luckily because (inaudible) I just kind of felt comfortable talking to her. So.
(Phone Ringing)
PATIENT: You know I guess even when I came here I just don't have a really good group of friends. So it's been hard for me to really talk about some of the things that have been going on with me that are bothering me. But the upside because of the pregnancy my friends have been much more responsive to calling me. And then checking on me and having long talks which is nice. I mean kind of like a padding for when this stops.
COUNSELOR: So you feel like that's going to help out to kind of.
PATIENT: I have a girlfriend that just moved here. (Inaudible). I mean I know girls but you know not anybody I would want to be really good friends with.
COUNSELOR: Yeah. We haven't talked a whole lot about that - about your sort of support network or friends. Or how you feel about.
PATIENT: But now we don't (inaudible) our last week to work on. (laughs)
COUNSELOR: You seem relieved. Like
PATIENT: Yeah. No. I - I don't know. It's just been - I mean part of it's my problem and part of it is just like people I meet. You know I mean I use to just meet people that Tony worked with. And then I would get really close to them. And then they'd quit. So you can't get really close to people that you work with because they work for me because he was the boss. And you've got to be really careful. It has like put a thing on our relationship. [45:13]
But then with his assistant I just - really just quick with her. There was no holding us back after a while. (laughs) But you know we have friends. They just had two kids. But she's older and she's very like - she's super smart but kind of condescending and kind of weird. And she makes like 500 grand a year.
COUNSELOR: Wow.
PATIENT: So I just always found her to be a little condescending and she. I know she's trying a lot harder to be nice to me now but. You know they live in our neighborhood. And she's not the same.
And then we have another friend who had a baby in November but she's so dramatic and so high maintenance. Like she called me on Wednesday. I was sad and my ceiling collapsed. I was in a bad mood. I was missing a friend's party because they were all going out drinking and just. She said oh do you have any questions. I asked her a few and she runs into Tony's office. She works for him. And it's like Tanya's so out of control. She has some many questions. I should see you guys. And it's like there's no need for that. You know like. (laughs) She just caught me at an off day. And she just does it with everything.
So Tony doesn't work with a lot of women. And all of the people that I work with are older even the people that I work with me. It's just so hard to meet.
COUNSELOR: And your coworkers are all?
PATIENT: Right. I mean I'm trying to meet people who are married. So I already isolate one - many people my age. Because most of them in Chicago are single. So they go out at like 12 o'clock at nigh which I don't want to do. Then on the weekends Tony and I are serious bums. We like lay on the couch. Sundays usually we both don't even get dressed. Saturday we work on the house. I have no - I'm now way past having the desire to go out and do something. Because I you know I'm enjoying just my pattern of being lazy.
And during the week I can never rely on Tony to get out of work on time. So I've isolated couples that we've met because we just couldn't commit to any times of going out. But I've met some people. Another girl she really is (inaudible) a relationship - just communication wise. And I have a friend from high school.
So I think I also have to make a little more of an effort. I complained for so long that I didn't have any friends but then it's like who am hanging out with. Tony and I - we see them once every six months. And the rest of the time we're going to see them we're busy. So even if we're not doing anything at all. [47:32]
COUNSELOR: It's hard with very busy lives to connect with people. We actually have to end. But as far as rescheduling you want an earlier time?
PATIENT: I think so.
COUNSELOR: Let me see.
PATIENT: I mean today it wasn't bad. But last week it was.
COUNSELOR: Rough for you to be here?
PATIENT: Yeah. And it doesn't have to be Tuesdays. But if it doesn't work (inaudible).
COUNSELOR: What about - did you say Monday was a difficult day? No. I mean Monday it's not a whole lot earlier. Five?
PATIENT: (Inaudible).
COUNSELOR: I mean right now we're - 5:50 - it's not really earlier at all.
PATIENT: Well Monday might be better because I'm not out so much. You know?
COUNSELOR: Really?
PATIENT: Monday I spend pretty much the whole day in the office. Except next Monday I have jury duty so I wouldn't.
COUNSELOR: Okay. I'm trying to thing what other times.
PATIENT: I mean why don't we do - next week Tuesday is going to be horrible because I will be not working on Monday. Then I'll be.
COUNSELOR: Very busy.
PATIENT: Actually it shouldn't be bad. Because now I do a lot of main stuff on Monday visit with people.
COUNSELOR: Could we - Gosh, it's so hard to.
PATIENT: Well why don't.
COUNSELOR: Are you able to come like during the day? Do you want to - are you able to come in say Thursday at one?
PATIENT: I should.
COUNSELOR: Is that doable?
PATIENT: You know what that's next week just can we do Thursday at one? And then.
COUNSELOR: Discuss it further.
PATIENT: And then after that do Mondays at five.
COUNSELOR: Sure.
PATIENT: Because on Thursdays I'm on the west side. And I'm thinking of - it won't be hard for me to get down here.
COUNSELOR: Sure. Okay. So Thursday at one then for next week?
PATIENT: Yeah.
COUNSELOR: Okay. Let's do that. Great.
PATIENT: Do we put down (inaudible)?
COUNSELOR: So that will be really different.
PATIENT: The 14th?
COUNSELOR: Um-hum.
PATIENT: Yeah. It will be.
COUNSELOR: I'm use to you being so late in the day.
PATIENT: Maybe I'll be different.
(Laughter)
COUNSELOR: You will be. Maybe I'll be just as well. Something to look forward to, right?
PATIENT: Yep. Okay. Can I use your phone?
COUNSELOR: Sure. Go ahead.
PATIENT: I don't know why that number didn't work. Maybe I dialed it to. I don't why I dialed it.
END TRANSCRIPT
