TRANSCRIPT OF AUDIO FILE:
BRIEF THERAPY - ESSENCE AND EVOLUTION - NLP EYE MOVEMENT INTEGRATION - ANDREAS

___________________________________________________________________________________
BEGIN TRANSCRIPT:
COUNSELOR: Okay, Judson - I just met you briefly and you said you have - you're a Vietnam Vet. Can you tell me a little bit about how these experiences intrude into your - how does it bother you in terms of where, when, how, present life? 
PATIENT: Intrusive thoughts.
COUNSELOR: Okay. Does it happen at particular times? And I don't need a lot of content by the way. I don't need to know a lot of - see, you got them right now don't you? 
PATIENT: Yeah. No, not any particular time. 
COUNSELOR: Okay. It pops at random and concerns you and I can see your eyes are a little wet right now. Okay great. Well, leave that behind for a minute. And you've already read this general instructions sheet, but I'd like to review it both for the purpose of the people who are watching the video and to make sure that you understand all that's going on and what I plan to do here. First I'll gather a little bit of information about how you experience the problem and then I'm going to ask you to think about it as I ask you keep your head still and watch this target with your eyes. And I'll move it in various ways. And then I'll ask you to report on any changes in your experience of the way that you experience the problem. Okay? There are two kinds of changes. One are quantitative changes. I'll ask you to rate the way you presently experience it at 100 percent and then if it reduced 20 percent you would tell me 80. And if it got increased, you would tell me 120 or something like that. Just give me some kind of number so that I have a sense of the intensity. Now there might also be qualitative changes. So the way that you see an internal image for instance - the internal image might come closer or go farther away. It might become brighter or dimmer or change in some way like that even though the content remains the same. [2:17]
The content might change. It might change from a particular person to someone else or in some way the location might change or something in the content might change. I'm telling you about the kinds of things I'm asking you to report on later. There might be changes in the kind of feeling response opposed to the intensity. So the intensity might even go up but it might change from fear or frustration or something like to pleasure or to astonishment or who knows what it might change to. And there might also be changes in muscle tension somewhere in your body. It could be a full-body relaxation or tension or part-body tension and those I would want you to report on too at those times. Now most important is I want you to really let me know, moment to moment, any time this becomes uncomfortable for you or you would like to stop so that we can do something different. And that means that as I'm doing this if you would prefer it closer or slower than what I'm doing - just any kind of feedback let me know so that this can be comfortable [and easy] (ph) for you. Okay those are the general instructions. Do you have any questions about that? [3:35]
PATIENT: Not about what you said - about some of the things that I'm thinking about. There were quite a few different things that went on in Vietnam and if you think about one, that triggers another one and then that triggers another one. 
COUNSELOR: Okay. I'd like you to think of one if you can. Now if you trigger off to other ones, that's okay but I'd prefer that we deal one at a time. And if you do find yourself going from one to another, will you just let me know about that? Okay? Just so that I know what's going on. Now I'm going to ask you some questions that may sound a little weird but they're helpful I think in understanding what goes on in this process. When you think of that experience and I want you to just do it briefly just for a little while just to get information so that you can let me know. You don't need to go into it and all that stuff. When you think of this intrusive thought, how do you represent it? And I mean by this, do you have an image? Does this image have sounds? How far away is the image? Is it bright? Is it color? Is it three-dimensional? Various things like that. You understand the question?
PATIENT: Uh-huh.
COUNSELOR: Okay?
PATIENT: It's an image.
COUNSELOR: Okay. And that's pretty much straight in front of you?
PATIENT: Yeah.
COUNSELOR: How far away?
PATIENT: It's sort of difficult to say how far away. It just seems like it's three-dimensional.
COUNSELOR: Three-dimensional? Does it kind of wrap around you? Is it almost like you're back there? Or do you have some distance from it?
PATIENT: Uh-huh. There's some distance from it. 
COUNSELOR: Okay. It's a little hard - so it's three-dimensional? Is it life-sized? 
PATIENT: No. 
COUNSELOR: Not life-sized.
PATIENT: Smaller than life-sized.
COUNSELOR: Okay. Roughly, how small?
PATIENT: It's more like a picture that I'm looking at.
COUNSELOR: More like a picture. Okay. Does it have a frame around it?
PATIENT: No.
COUNSELOR: Okay. And does it have sound?
PATIENT: Uh-huh.
COUNSELOR: Okay. The sounds that were occurring in that particular event?
PATIENT: Uh-huh.
COUNSELOR: Okay. And tell me a little bit about the feelings that you're having as a result of that. Do you have some tension? It's obviously unpleasant for you.
PATIENT: It feels - I feel like my heart is racing.
COUNSELOR: Okay.
PATIENT: Breathing shallow, fast.
COUNSELOR: Okay.
PATIENT: An uncomfortable feeling in my chest, running through my arms. 
COUNSELOR: And is this typical of what you experience when you have these intrusive thoughts in daily life? 
PATIENT: I hadn't really thought about it. The image is quite the same. [6:29]
COUNSELOR: Okay. The image is the same. And the feelings? 
PATIENT: I hadn't really thought about it. Yeah, I would guess so - the tenseness.
COUNSELOR: Okay. Alright. Okay. Okay, now one other thing to ask you before we begin and that is that if you were to look - think of the image - think of this experience that you have of this past image; if you were to look around in your visual field is there any particular area of your visual field in which this image is most troubling?
PATIENT: Oh, yeah, right directly in front of me.
COUNSELOR: Right directly in front of you. Okay. So if you were to look up and think of the same image? That changes it? Makes it less? [7:19]
PATIENT: Um-hmm. 
COUNSELOR: Or down? Or off to the side? Just check for me. 
PATIENT: Yeah, there seems to be a difference.
COUNSELOR: Okay. Okay, great. So right in the front; it makes sense that's where the image is so that's where it naturally occurs at this point. Okay. So now we can start as soon as I can find my little target here. Okay, so you're job is not to do anything consciously or intentionally, just simply to do what I ask you and find out how that changes your experience or not. It may not. We'll find out. Are you up for it?
PATIENT: Hm-hmm. 
COUNSELOR: Okay. So what I want you to do is just keep your head in one position. It's going to be hard. (inaudible @ 8:17) Right in the glare. Well, can you live with it? (chuckles) It's going to be hard to change the lighting at this point. 
PATIENT: As long as I don't look up at it. 
COUNSELOR: Perhaps you could turn your chair just a little like this. Oops! Does that make a difference? 
PATIENT: Oh, yeah.
COUNSELOR: Is that better? 
PATIENT: Um-hmm.
COUNSELOR: Okay, great. You're probably going to get it occasionally but at least it'll be off to the side. Okay? [Let's sit this behind you. I'll think it'll be fine.] (ph) Okay. So follow my yellow tip here. And again, let me know if I go too fast. And the goal is to have nice smooth movement while you're thinking of that disturbing experience. Nice smooth movement. Just follow it. That's right. Is that a comfortable distance for you? 
PATIENT: Um-hmm.
COUNSELOR: Okay. You keep thinking about that disturbing incident. Okay. And now I need a little report from you. 
PATIENT: I found it difficult to think about it. 
COUNSELOR: Uh-hmm. And now? 
PATIENT: It's still there.
COUNSELOR: It's still there. Okay. Is the intensity the same? It's fine if it is. Just give me a rough idea.
PATIENT: Yeah, I would think so. 
COUNSELOR: Okay. So that didn't change anything? Okay. (long pause) Okay. Just pause for a moment and tell me if that made any difference. 
PATIENT: What I noticed - not so much an image, but a lot of sounds that I hadn't thought about.
COUNSELOR: So you noticed more sounds that you hadn't thought about.
PATIENT: Uh-hmm. 
COUNSELOR: And did that change the intensity of your response to the experience? Either increase it or decrease it? 
PATIENT: Now?
COUNSELOR: Uh-hmm. Think of it now. Each time in between we'll just ask you to think of that same experience again and just let me know if there's any change. [11:30]
PATIENT: It's a little more difficult to bring the image up. I don't feel quite -
COUNSELOR: A little more difficult to bring the image up. Okay. And does that change your feelings at all?
PATIENT: Yeah, I don't feel quite as tense.
COUNSELOR: You want to just give a number? Oh, not as tense? How about the feelings as a whole in response to that? 
PATIENT: I'd say 90. 
COUNSELOR: Ninety? Okay. So it reduced it a little bit. Not very much. Okay. We'll do another batch here. See if you can follow that a little more smoothly. Your eyes are jumping a little bit. [We can do something else about that] (ph). That's better. Now I want to do something a little bit different. That's right. Just follow it like that. And for the explanation for the rest of you who are observing there was an area here where his eyes jumped across a little space. And I'm just sort of keeping them in that space for a little while. Then I'll go back to this one. And usually that smoothes out the eye movement. Let's do a little more there. (long pause) Okay. Just take a moment and then let me know any change there. [13:46]
PATIENT: Actually I was going from one event to another. 
COUNSELOR: Okay. Great. Thanks for telling me. And if you think of that original experience now...?
PATIENT: It seems to be some still a little tightness in the chest. 
COUNSELOR: A little tightness in your chest. Does that mean that it's decreased significantly?
PATIENT: It's decreased. Yeah.
COUNSELOR: Okay. Okay. Any other changes? 
PATIENT: No. No.
COUNSELOR: Overall intensity still at 90 percent?
PATIENT: Uh-hmm. I would say.
COUNSELOR: Something like that? 
PATIENT: Uh-hmm. 
COUNSELOR: Okay. Okay, let's try over here. This one you may get a little bit of the light. If you want to turn your head toward me a little bit that might make the light out of the way. (long pause) Let me - I'll slow down some. Yeah, there you go. Nice and smooth. Okay. Any changes in this one then? Just think of it again and....
PATIENT: What happen is it led to a different...[16:44]
COUNSELOR: A different image? 
PATIENT: Yeah, to the end of the fight. 
COUNSELOR: A different event?
PATIENT: Yeah. It was to the end. It was the end.
COUNSELOR: Okay. 
PATIENT: And I noticed that I was holding my breath.
COUNSELOR: Okay. Was that end experience more difficult than the others?
PATIENT: Oh, yeah.
COUNSELOR: Okay. Is this - tell me a little bit. Is this a series of events that happened basically in one chunk of time? 
PATIENT: Uh-hmm.
COUNSELOR: One battle or something like that?
PATIENT: Yeah, about a four hour fight.
COUNSELOR: Okay, a four hour fight. And so initially you got some piece in the beginning. Is that right?
PATIENT: Uh-hmm.
COUNSELOR: And now you're going to the end and the end is more intense? Is that - am I understanding you right?
PATIENT: Yeah.
COUNSELOR: Okay. Now since the end one is more intense, you're probably feeling more intense now. Is that right? [17:36]
PATIENT: Uh-hmm.
COUNSELOR: Okay. Let's stay with that experience if you're willing. And you let me know if you want to break or you want to pause for a little while or you want to do something different. You let me know okay?
PATIENT: Uh-hmm.
COUNSELOR: But since that's the most intense one if we get that one the rest is going to clear up. You up for it?
PATIENT: Sure. 
COUNSELOR: Okay. Okay. Let's do another one. Oh! Give me a number on this one. I'm sorry. This was more intense right?
PATIENT: Yep.
COUNSELOR: Give it a number. So the first one was 100; this would be over 100, right?
PATIENT: Yeah, 150.
COUNSELOR: One hundred and fifty. Okay. Take a deep breath. Okay? (long pause) I'd like to do something right down here. That's right. (long pause) Okay. Think of it again. Can you tell me about your experience now? [20:17]
PATIENT: Well, I started breathing. I could feel my heart beat. Even though it was fast, it wasn't as fast. 
COUNSELOR: So not as fast as at the beginning but still fast.
PATIENT: Uh-hmm.
COUNSELOR: Okay. 
PATIENT: [I'm going to pat my hands on this. They're not wet.] (ph)
COUNSELOR: They're not wet. 
PATIENT: Uh-uh.
COUNSELOR: They were before?
PATIENT: Uh-hmm.
COUNSELOR: Okay. Alright. Now does that mean there is any change in your overall feeling? 
PATIENT: (inaudible @ 20:52)
COUNSELOR: And we had 150 percent last time based on that first one. 
PATIENT: It's like I could still bring the image up but it doesn't have the emotional impact.
COUNSELOR: Yeah. That's - the emotional impact is what we're concerned about, right?
PATIENT: Uh-hmm.
COUNSELOR: That's what you'd like to have different, right?
PATIENT: Uh-hmm. 
COUNSELOR: So can you give me a number. Last time it was 150.
PATIENT: It was - I would say it dropped way down.
COUNSELOR: Okay. To? Just give me a number. It's - you know, we're not going to publish these results. 
PATIENT: Sixty.
COUNSELOR: Sixty? Great. Okay. Let's try circles in the other direction. Okay. Can you give me a little report now? [22:59]
PATIENT: I found it difficult to try to bring the image up. 
COUNSELOR: Hard to bring it up.
PATIENT: Uh-hmm.
COUNSELOR: Would that break your heart if that happened in your daily life?
PATIENT: No. 
COUNSELOR: (chuckles) And if you do bring it up - if you deliberately bring it up, how do you experience it?
PATIENT: It seems further away.
COUNSELOR: Further away. Great.
PATIENT: Yeah. Much, much further away. 
COUNSELOR: Much, much further away. Can you - how far?
PATIENT: It's like it's at the wall. 
COUNSELOR: Over at the wall? So that would be what? Forty feet perhaps? Fifty feet?
PATIENT: Uh-hmm. 
COUNSELOR: Something like that. Okay and can you give me a number on this one? It's farther away. You probably feel better about it.
PATIENT: Uh-hmm. It's 20 or 30.
COUNSELOR: Twenty or thirty. Okay. Okay, let's go for the gusto. (long pause) Okay. 
PATIENT: Other images that were less significant appeared. [25:08]
COUNSELOR: Okay. That's fine. 
PATIENT: Sounds seemed to be more prominent.
COUNSELOR: The sounds seemed to be more prominent. Okay. So the sounds came up. And overall feeling? If you take that worse one - the worst part of that experience. Give me a reading now.
PATIENT: That would be the sounds. But it seemed like they would be out of context.
COUNSELOR: The sounds seemed out of context? So the sounds didn't fit with the images. Is that what you're saying?
PATIENT: The sounds don't fit with now. Here and now.
COUNSELOR: Oh, the sounds don't fit with now. But do they fit with the images and memories that you were having?
PATIENT: Uh-hmm. Uh-hmm.
COUNSELOR: Okay. Now given that went to these other experiences that were less prominent and the sounds came up in those, that's why we were doing it, right? 
PATIENT: Uh-hmm.
COUNSELOR: And now if you think of that original image; what's your experience about - or the whole experience; not just the image but the sounds and whatever was there?
PATIENT: I don't know.
COUNSELOR: Just give me a number. Again, we're not going to publish these results. These are just rough idea to keep me on track so I know what's going on. Just pick a number that's in the ball park.
PATIENT: It's 40. Forty. [27:07]
COUNSELOR: Forty? So it went up a little bit on that one. Okay. That's fine because you're processing other images at the same time, right? Those other ones came up and the sounds came up. Okay, let's do this one. (long pause) Okay.[ Go ahead and think of that toughest one and tell me about that one.] (ph) And let me know anything else that's going on.
PATIENT: The thought that came up that I'm getting out of this place. That came up. And -
COUNSELOR: The thought came up that you're getting out of this place? 
PATIENT: Uh-hmm.
COUNSELOR: Okay. 
PATIENT: And then it just seemed like it became peaceful.
COUNSELOR: Became peaceful? So you're feelings now are peaceful?
PATIENT: More so, yeah.
COUNSELOR: More so. So is there a mixture of fear and whatever was unpleasant and the peace or - tell me a little more about what you're experiencing now. Your breathing looks a little easier too, is that right? [29:12]
PATIENT: Uh-hmm. It seemed like everything just sort of ended then. 
COUNSELOR: Everything ended?
PATIENT: Uh-hmm. 
COUNSELOR: Okay. Does that mean that there is no more of the original discomfort or is that still hanging around?
PATIENT: There seems to be something inside that I -
COUNSELOR: Okay, so you can feel a little bit right down there? 
PATIENT: Yeah.
COUNSELOR: Okay. So again give a number. Is this down to I don't know five or ten or what would you say? How much is this remainder? 
PATIENT: I would say ten.
COUNSELOR: Ten? Okay. Okay. [30:17] 
Okay. Does that make any changes?
PATIENT: Yeah. More insignificant things were coming up. 
COUNSELOR: Okay. More insignificant things just kind of popping up in your mind?
PATIENT: Uh-hmm.
COUNSELOR: Okay.
PATIENT: The more I tried to concentrate on the difficult parts or what were the difficult parts, they seemed to be not there and insignificant things were popping up.
COUNSELOR: Okay. Oh! We didn't get a - well, do you have a number in terms of the remaining discomfort you felt over here?
PATIENT: I'd say zero.
COUNSELOR: Zero? Alright. Okay, let's do some more. (long pause) Give me a report again. Any changes? 
PATIENT: There's a feeling like that I should be nervous but (laughter) I'm not.
COUNSELOR: You should be nervous but you're not. Okay. (chuckles)
PATIENT: [I should be thinking things but I'm not; if that makes any sense.] (ph) 
COUNSELOR: Well, it does. You've had this how many years?
PATIENT: Since May of 69.
COUNSELOR: Sixty-nine? So that's 24 years? 
PATIENT: Uh-hmm. 
COUNSELOR: My math is right onstage? So you have an expectation that this would continue and so it makes sense to me that some part of you would go, "This is weird." Okay? Now is there any particular - various movements that we've made or any others that you would think of because there are lots of places in visual space - is there anything that you would like to do? Is there anything that - and this is a time to trust your unconscious promptings or any intuitions you might have. If you just kind of close your eyes for a moment. Is there any signals from inside that would indicate that it would be useful to do what we've doing here with any part of your visual field? Either do over or do more or do different? We've mostly been doing two-point things. You can also do [two-three-point] (ph) or circles and ellipses. There are lots of possibilities. [34:42]
PATIENT: Well, I'm not sure of what you're asking to begin with. 
COUNSELOR: Sometimes at this point, even though people feel resolve; there's some little nagging thing and they go, "Oh, you know I think it would feel good if you would do up over like this. That seems like it would be useful." And I'm just asking. You may not have any hints for me, but I'm just offering you the opportunity to provide hints if you have any. If you don't that's fine. No problem. 
PATIENT: Like I said earlier, certain things brought about sounds. Some of the others brought about images. I guess the circles were the -
COUNSELOR: You liked the circles?
COUNSELOR: Great.
PATIENT: Yeah. They were most effective. 
COUNSELOR: Okay. Let's do some more circles then. And I may make them ellipses from time to time or something like that and you just follow along. (long pause) Any change there? Anything going on? [36:47]
PATIENT: I forgot what I was thinking when we were doing it. (laughter)
COUNSELOR: So think about that worst event right near the end right? 
PATIENT: Uh-hmm.
COUNSELOR: Near the end of this sequence. Think of that worst event again and test. Find out how you feel about it. Let me know if there are any perceptual changes. Like if it goes closer or farther away or anything like that. [37:15]
PATIENT: The images don't seem to be troublesome.
COUNSELOR: Okay. Does that imply that something else is?
PATIENT: Some of the sounds but they don't mean much now.
COUNSELOR: They don't mean much but they're still a little bit of concern to you? Do they give you some little willies or something? 
PATIENT: Uh-hmm.
COUNSELOR: Okay. 
PATIENT: Yeah.
COUNSELOR: Well, let's go after those. What I want to do now is think of those sounds as we continue a little bit, okay? Let's do circles again and concentrate on those sounds. (long pause) Any change in your response to the sounds? [38:54]
PATIENT: I could hear them and at the same time I'm saying to myself that they don't mean anything. 
COUNSELOR: Okay. So you can hear them but you're saying to yourself that they don't mean anything. And does that work? Because sometimes people say, "Well, they don't mean anything," but they still feel terrible. 
PATIENT: Uh-hmm.
COUNSELOR: So I'd like to check on that. How do you feel?
PATIENT: I still got a little bit of it (crosstalk) right in the gut.
COUNSELOR: Still got a little bit. Good. Let's go after it. Okay. [You want to unload it all.] (ph) Let's go this way. Concentrate on those sounds. (long pause) Okay. Can you think of those sounds now? [40:56]
PATIENT: I can breathe during the sounds.
COUNSELOR: Okay. So your breathing is freer?
PATIENT: Uh-hmm.
COUNSELOR: Okay. Any change in the intensity of your feeling there?
PATIENT: Yeah. That's gone.
COUNSELOR: That's gone? You sure?
PATIENT: Uh-hmm.
COUNSELOR: Check to be sure. It's great if it's gone. I just want to be sure. 
PATIENT: Uh-hmm.
COUNSELOR: Okay. Now thinking of all your experiences in Vietnam and all these ones that you've processed here out of this whole segment, I want you try as hard as you can to get back the original - because when you came up here there were tears in your eyes. You were feeling something quite strongly. Right? [42:05]
PATIENT: Uh-hmm.
COUNSELOR: Is there any way that you can utilize those images - is there any way that you can bring that back? Or are you irrevocably broken? Because if you can get them back in any way, I want to continue; and if you really can't get them back now then we're basically done. 
PATIENT: I can still see some of the images.
COUNSELOR: I want you to be able to still see some of the images because that is part of your history. It is part of what happened to you and it is valuable information. What I also want you to have is to be able to see those images in a way that's comfortable so that it's a memory like all the other memories that we've had for your use and your utilization in your life and well that's enough. What I don't want you to have is that intense response that you can't control and so on. 
PATIENT: No, that's gone. 
COUNSELOR: There's no way you can get it back? Really test. Really think about perhaps particular incidents that would happen in real life where things would tend to come back or anything - you know more about this whole thing than I could ever know. But really test to find out if there's any way that you can get that back because when you came up here it wasn't hard at all, right?
PATIENT: No.
COUNSELOR: And you spoke of these as intrusive which means they would pop up at various times. You said that you could not identify the particular times that they would pop up. They'd just come. Is there any way that you could test to see if this is really done? 
PATIENT: As a matter of fact when I came up here the thing I had in mind, I hadn't even thought of until just now.
COUNSELOR: Okay. You mean just now 20 minutes ago or right at this moment?
PATIENT: No, we were talking about the intrusive thoughts. I had one in particular.
COUNSELOR: Okay.
PATIENT: But after I sat down and other things that were more significant came up. And after whatever you said then, I just now thought about the original thoughts that I came up here with. 
COUNSELOR: Okay.
PATIENT: And there's not much to those. [45:00]
COUNSELOR: Not much to those?
PATIENT: They're there.
COUNSELOR: Yeah. I want them to be there. Amnesia's not a ecological solution. If you totally forget something that happened, it means you're not protected from knowing about that - that that kind of thing is possible. That's all valuable information as long as you can experience it in a way that's comfortable for you. 
PATIENT: That's rather pretty.
COUNSELOR: What's that?
PATIENT: That's rather pretty.
COUNSELOR: Rather...?
PATIENT: Pretty. 
COUNSELOR: Pretty?
PATIENT: The tracers - green and red tracers.
COUNSELOR: Oh, pretty! The green and red tracers. That's a different response, huh? (laughter)
PATIENT: Most definitely. 
COUNSELOR: Excuse me for not understanding you but you made a little jump there and I couldn't quite follow. The tracers are pretty. Okay. Well, I'm done. Is there anything that you would like to continue with? I'm want to ask you one more time; invite you to if you'd like me to do something else along these lines let me know. Otherwise, it looks good to me. I tried to get you to feel bad all this time and I haven't succeeded. 
PATIENT: No, I guess not. 
COUNSELOR: Okay. Now is there anything that you would like to share with the group about this experience? Psychologists are kind of nosy and they like to have content. Tracers certainly indicate some kind of a battle. Some kind of a firefight or something. And you don't have to go into the gory details but just maybe some indication of the kind of situation this was. And only if you wish. [46:36]
PATIENT: I feel like I'm on stage.
COUNSELOR: You are. (laughter) That's an accurate perception. (laughter)
PATIENT: It was an event that happened in 1969 shortly before it was my time to come back. I was in the Marines. It was in the [Osha Valley] (ph) and we got socked in top of mountain. We got hit about 3:30 in the morning with a reinforced platoon backed up by a company of [MVA sappers] (ph). And it was about a four hour fight with fixed bayonets and hand to hand and quite a mess. Quite a mess. That's what I was thinking about. 
COUNSELOR: Yeah. And when you talk about it now how are you feeling? 
PATIENT: Like I said, I feel like I should be nervous but I'm really not. 
COUNSELOR: Yeah, it looks fairly comfortable. A lot of things like that aren't fun to talk about but if you can talk about them and feel basically comfortable...great. Well, if you're willing, how about if you just sit here for a little while. If you don't mind being on stage a little longer and I'll just say a few words about the process for their benefit and for the videotape. [48:01]
PATIENT: Okay.
COUNSELOR: And I'd like to hold any questions for a moment. I'd like to give a couple of things and then if we have time take a few questions. The first thing I want to say is that this method is not EMDR. There's something called EMDR. It was developed by Francine Shapiro and I believe it utilizes the same neurological change that this involves but here system is very different. It's put in the entire treatment context and so on. I don't do that. You've seen what I do. I have not seen what Francine does. I have not taken EMDR training. This comes out of NLP and our understanding of how to access different parts of the brain neurologically by using eye movements. And how to basically reprocess events by using different parts the brain. The human brain is the only general all purpose computer that can be produced by unskilled labor. (laughter) And it also enters the world without an owner's manual. You don't have a manual that tells you how to program this thing or how to guide it. And we do our best as parents. And experiences sometimes catch up with us and all the things that basically a lot of our learning is fairly random despite our best efforts. [49:30]
This is a way to re-learn and to reprocess events that were particularly unpleasant and we have a whole theory about it which I don't have time to explain. But you heard here at various times the perceptual parameters changed; at a certain point the picture went farther away, became dimmer, hard to get back which means you have to kind of dredge it up instead of having it become intrusive and just enter your awareness. I deliberately demonstrated here without any explanation to Judson of what we're going to do; without any theory; without any hypnotic language. Perhaps once in a while in my talking to him, I may have slipped and dropped a few little things in here. But I wanted to demonstrate how much you can do without any hypnosis. Without any additional therapeutic - all of your therapeutic [armentarium.] (ph) because this method in itself is surprisingly effective. It's particularly effective for things like PTSD or horrible experiences. It also tends to be quite effective for future experiences; anxieties, concerns about planning, worrying, things like that. I've also found it quite effective for some things like headaches. About a year ago, my son had a temperature of 103 and at a certain point he started complaining that if I put my hand on his knee or something like this, that it felt enormous or that if he touched me, his hand felt enormous. He had kinesthetic magnification. And I did this with him for perhaps 10 minutes and it went away. The next day it came back again. I did it again and it went away. This was perhaps five minutes the second time. The third day it came back again and I did it again for perhaps two or three minutes and again it went away. [51:20]
He was kind of weirded out by it. It wasn't dangerous or anything but it was upsetting to him. And I was glad to have been able to do something about that. It can also be used for moods. If you're in a grumpy mood some morning, try it out. In Francine Shapiro's use of this she cautions very much against traumatic abreactions and fugue states and I think probably those are wise things to be concerned about with particular client populations. And I believe that in general if you're respectful of the person, if you offer them all the opportunities that I offered Judson here of, "Let me know if any time that I'm doing something that's discomforting or that bothers you in any way to let me know." Then you can stop and there's no risk that you will inadvertently push them into some experience that they would otherwise not be willing to go to. And I think really that concludes my remarks so perhaps there was a question here. 
SPEAKER: (inaudible @ 52:31)
COUNSELOR: I have varying information on that. With something like this, yes. I'm sorry, the question is, "Will the results hold over time?" With past experiences that are definitely in the past, they typically will hold over time. I worked with one woman who had gone into a dentist for a root canal or something. And he got about half way done and she freaked out so they put an aluminum cap on and sent her away. She couldn't continue at that time. And I worked with her on this and it cleared it up totally in the present like this. And she was blissfully oblivious to this whole thing until she went back to the dentist's office. When she went back into the dentist's office, she didn't have a good time but she did stay. So there was some change and she thanked me at least for the two weeks in between because the two weeks in between were fine. Now if Judson goes back into Vietnam or something in a combat situation, I'm not going to predict what would happen there. But in terms of experiences that are completed and in the past I think that's - my experience is it will vary. People are wonderfully surprising. Have you ever noticed that? No matter how consistent you can be in certain things there's always somebody who can surprise you. And those are the people to study because those are the people who know something that you don't know. The woman in the blue...
SPEAKER: (inaudible @ 54:02)
COUNSELOR: I did once. I reversed the circle once. Yes.
SPEAKER: (inaudible @ 54:10)
COUNSELOR: Auditory is down to his left. I got the idea. Let me try to comment on that. I want to comment in a more general way in response to your question. I'm sorry. The question is really, "Why didn't I reverse the circle?" There were a lot of other things on the sheet that you have that I did not do. General protocol here - there's a bunch of notes on there that you can see and read. The general thing is for him it was most discomforting right here where he saw the picture right in front of him which is where intrusive thoughts typically are. There right in front of you. You can't miss them. So you're just wandering around and there it is. So I deliberately went around. I did across the top, across the bottom and on the sides and so on. And then I went to the center. Now if I'd gone to the center first, I can almost guarantee you that you would have had a very great intensity increase. But that would not have been useful at that time. And so anytime someone has some discomfort in any particular area wherever it might be, I do that last. Now it's important to do it. It's not avoidance. It's temporary - I think of it as gathering cognitive resources in other areas. And then when those are kind of assembled and together then you can deal with the others. But they're many other things that I could have done. [55:40] 
We seem to have come to a conclusion that was satisfactory for him and looked good to me. There are clearly other possibilities. And the other thing I want to say is that I don't know any rule at all about which movement will be most useful. Different people differ enormously. Some people you do this particular one and it's nothing. The other ones you do like that and they almost go into a trance. They relax so suddenly. They just go, "Oh! Wow!" At a certain point here it went from 150 percent to 40 or something like that. I don't know any way to predict which one will do it. I don't have any particular sequence of doing it. Simply, you explore and you tentative -
SPEAKER: (inaudible @ 56:21)
COUNSELOR: I'm sorry?
SPEAKER: There's a little (inaudible @ 56:25)
COUNSELOR: Well, there is one particular thing. I believe that processing bad memories - visual construct, which for most people is over here or over here on me - is where you can reassemble images and change images and move them farther away and so on. And that that is a particularly useful one to include early. That's my only real bias here. I don't know. This is a new thing and I'm presenting this not as a completely developed treatment method. I mean, it works for a lot of things but I'm sure we will learn much more about it. And I want to encourage experimentation - respectful of course. And I think it would be wonderful if some people do research on it. It's very expensive and difficult to research but it's important. Research has not been done on this or in any other realm of NLP that's worth anything including the ones that claim that NLP does work. I mean, it's just rotten research. I'm sorry. Okay.
SPEAKER: (inaudible @ 57:23)
COUNSELOR: I'm sorry? Chronic pain. I would intuitively say yes. I have not tried it. It worked with my son's kinesthetic hallucination and it works with headaches very wonderfully. I worked with our office manager once and she had a tension headache but it was really bothering her. And I tried a bunch of different stuff and nothing much happened. It changed a little bit. And then I think I did the diagonal from here to here and her head almost hit the desk. She went, "Uhhh!" She just - I don't know why. There was something in there that was useful. Yes?
SPEAKER: (inaudible @ 58:04)
COUNSELOR: Yes. That's one of my - the smoothness of the eye movement I believe is useful. Part of the background is that - I believe that the eye is a way of accessing different parts of the brain; the visual field. And that every part of the visual field accesses a particular kind of capacity or at least the general. Well, we're done I guess. I'll be glad to talk with you a little bit. Thanks a lot. 
END TRANSCRIPT
