<font size="4"><b>Chapter IV: Why an Alcoholic?</b></font>

WHAT is the factor that drives toward alcoholism some of
these perfectionists with New England consciences, these
people who try to make over the world according to their
own designs, while others of them find release in some
other way? Psychiatrists are now approaching this aspect
of the problem from a number of angles, hoping to come
upon some means of distinguishing the potential alcoholic
from the potential reformer, drug addict, neurotic, or just
plain misanthrope with ulcers.


Not long ago I asked Dr. Cline, who in the meantime
has seen much more of alcoholism, what in his estimation
is the determining factor in making a compulsive drinker.
He said that in his opinion the alcoholic is preconditioned
in his childhood. This emotional conditioning he explains
as the early-life experience that determines how a man responds
to stress.


Dr. Cline, as did many another medical man, learned
much from his experience during the late war. He served
in the Navy and found the hospitals an excellent laboratory
for testing the validity of certain psychiatric concepts.
In them he was able to observe the reactions of large
numbers of men subjected to the same stress, the same
threat of death, disfigurement, or dishonor of failure under
fire. He watched the reactions of the normal and he treated
those who broke under the stress, patients whose suffering
took the form of various complaints, although they had

[p. <i>32</i>]

The most common symptoms involved the gastrointestinal
tract. In these cases, he almost always found that the
patient had always been a "finicky eater." He had been
able to get along fairly well at home, because his wife or
mother had prepared food that he could eat, but he could
not get along in the Navy, not because the food was poor,
but because he couldn't digest it when he was no longer
pampered by his family. The man might want desperately
to prove that he could "take it" as well as any other man.
He couldn't, and it was not his fault that he was conditioned
during his infancy to express emotions through the
medium of the gastrointestinal tract.


Or maybe the conditioning had been to such a common
disorder as constipation, as in the case of the young naval
officer who on the eve of his ship's departure for Iwo Jima
developed an obstinate case that would yield to no known
cathartic treatment. Dr. Cline discovered in the officer's
history that he had suffered from constipation in his infancy,
when he had nearly died of it; and again under the
stress of adolescence. In each case he had found relief from
unbearable tension through the medium that had been
established in his childhood.


It is not so easy to demonstrate the factor of preconditioning
in the case of alcoholism, but Dr. Cline believes
that there is a clear parallel. He believes  and many psychiatrists
agree with him  that the alcoholic drinks to excess
because his emotional conditioning in early life makes
it mandatory for him to drink when the stress becomes too
great.


The Wittmer Personality Tests, the first statistical approach
to the study of the alcoholic personality, gives

[p. <i>33</i>]

These findings tend to fortify the advocates of environment
as the leading factor in the cause of alcoholism as
against those who are convinced that it is heredity. For
the old conflict between the two points of view has been
carried over into this new field.


At first the psychiatrists were inclined to lean heavily
on the theory of heredity, claiming that the alcoholic was
born, not made. Now, however, it is generally accepted
that the need for alcohol cannot be transmitted biologically.
The desire to drink is, therefore, an acquired trait,
yet, as with many such traits, it may be that an alcoholic
parent may transmit a certain disposition toward the disease.


Tests made in the laboratory of the Department of Applied
Physiology at Yale University found that 52 per
cent of the 4000 alcoholics examined had either an alcoholic
father or an alcoholic mother. It was concluded that
the children of alcoholics run a greater risk of becoming
alcoholics than those of normal parents, not through any
direct hereditary factor, but because of an unfavorable
environment.


Approaching the same problem from another direction,
another research project undertaken by the same department

[p. <i>34</i>]

Recently the New York State Psychiatric Institute has
made studies of a certain number of life histories of alcoholics,
using the technique that social scientists have developed
in recent years to examine other aspects of human
behavior. It is their belief that these histories will give an
insight into the subject of alcoholism that it would be difficult
to obtain by statistical studies alone. One of these
studies is mine. It and many of the others seem to show
the relative importance of environment.


Alcohol was dramatized in our house. Father never took
a drop and Mother was an ardent member of the Woman's
Christian Temperance Union. When she happened to
go to a party where wine was served she would say of her
hosts "I shall never darken their doors again." Many a
time I have seen her peeping through the lace curtains of
the parlor window with opera glasses at her eyes  trying
to see what our local caterer's wagon was delivering to the
neighbors. If she discovered liquor she cut the neighbor
from her calling list. From my earliest days drinking had
the fascination of a forbidden sin.


At prep school and university my history was that of
the normal college boy. I drank, though not excessively;
partly, although I never formulated the reason, because
I was discarding the rigid puritanical ideals that had been

[p. <i>35</i>]

Law school and a first marriage that was not entirely
satisfactory, trying to make a living on a ranch out in
Washington, several newspaper jobs, financial difficulties
that kept our living on a marginal level, I experienced
without becoming a chronic drinker. A few drinks during
the week and heavy drinking on Saturday and Sunday
was the pattern. Strangely enough, the compulsive drinking
did not start until I was well established in the law,
had surmounted the financial troubles and won fair success
as a trial lawyer. From that time the decline was rapid
and spectacular. Soon I found myself drinking heavily
every day, intoxicated every night. Then I began to drink
in the morning and I kept it up with quick ones snatched
in my office or on the way to the courts, consuming sometimes
as much as a quart a day.


I knew I was drinking too much and tried everything 
the sawdust trail, Christian Science, even hypnotism. All
helped for a little while. I would stay off the liquor for a
few days or a month and then start in again, believing
that I could handle it. This was a period of frustration
and anxiety at the very time that I had the expectations
of a fine career.


At what point I became an alcoholic it would be difficult
to say, but if one can put his finger on a particular day
or hour, I should say that I stepped over the line on the
morning that I met on the way to the office a judge who
was a particular friend of mine. It was a horrible morning;
my head ached and my nerves twitched.

[p. <i>36</i>]

He looked at me and said, "You must have had quite a
night."


I admitted it. Worse luck, I was on the way to an important
meeting of litigants for whom I had been appointed
referee and my hand was shaking so that I could
barely light a cigarette.


"What you need," the judge said, "is a quick one to
pick you up. A Dry Martini will do the trick. I need one
myself."


We went into a bar together and I came out feeling on
top of the world, ready to tackle anything. From that moment
I was doomed. Although it was not until many years
and hospitals and sanitariums later that I acknowledged
it, I was an alcoholic
 the compulsion was too strong for
me.


How much of my alcoholism may be attributed to environment
is anybody's guess. One of the factors, I am
sure, is the stress under which I always labored to achieve
the success that was the only goal in our home, as it was
and still is in a large percentage of American homes. Our
one aim was to "get on," to "amount to something." By
those standards Father was a success; he had moved on
from the tinning business to become postmaster of Cleveland,
a member of the Board of Education, and an organizer
of the National Board of Trade, which later became
the United States Chamber of Commerce, but he was always
a little insecure because he had not finished school
and was embarrassed when he mispronounced words.
Words were important to him because they were his tools;
he was a brilliant orator of the old spellbinder school. He
was determined that his sons should get on too, so I read
the how-to-make-the-most-of-yourself books of Samuel
Smiles and subscribed to Orison Swett Mardon's magazine
<i>Success</i> (which, incidentally, failed several times), always

[p. <i>37</i>]

From my earliest childhood I had a tendency toward
violence which was nurtured by my mother's emotional
unpredictability. Sometimes, as I said before, she treated
me like her "petty lambkin," showing me off and lavishing
affection upon me, and at other times, for no reason that
I could see, she would shut me off with cold indifference.
So my attention-getting devices ranged from smashing
my nursing bottles on the floor to screaming and kicking
with rage when she left the house without me. Once, I remember 
I must have been about five years old  I had
a vivid and extremely pleasant vision of myself dead in a
coffin, watching my mother weep at what she had done
to me.


So jealousy of my brilliant, dominating father, which
I kept repressed below the level of consciousness because I
was ashamed of it, my emotional excesses, and my reliance
on my ability to get what I wanted from my indulgent
mother, regardless of whether I deserved it or it was good
for me, laid the groundwork for the neurosis that wrecked
me later.


My family's attitude toward alcoholism was typical of
middle-class American families at the end of the century.
Excessive drinking was abhorred and alcoholics were held
up as horrible examples of moral weakness, but there was
scarcely a family that did not have one or two carefully
hidden among the family skeletons. Heavy drinking was
in a curious, left-handed way a part of our folk customs.


How important these folkways are in the making of an
alcoholic is illustrated by the absence of alcoholism among
American Jews and Italians and its high incidence among

[p. <i>38</i>]

The records of hospital admissions collected by the
Medical Department of the Army in World War I show
that of the neuropsychiatry cases diagnosed as alcoholic
10.0 were Irish, 0.5 Jewish, and 0.4 Italian. Of those rejected
for chronic alcoholism by the Boston Board of
Medical Examiners for the Armed Forces in the winter
and following spring and summer of 1941-1942, the Irish
numbered 3.0, the Italians 1.2, the Jews 0.2, and the
Chinese none at all. Studies of arrests in San Francisco
show about the same proportion.


Why is it that we practically never find problem drinkers
among those races whose record for moderate drinking
is comparatively high, while there are many cases among
the Irish, who count drunkenness a sin? Certainly there
is no record of a higher degree of neurosis among the Irish
than among the Jews. So why do some races turn their
neuroses into one channel, some into another?


Many explanations have been given, but none of them is
substantiated by research. Some observers believe that one
finds fewer alcoholics among those races which are oldest
and most mature. With them moderate drinking has become
a part of their folkways and the alcoholic has been
weeded out by the process of survival. It is true that the
Chinese, the Jewish, and the Italian are old cultures in
which moderate drinking is countenanced and excessive
drinking taboo. Among the Jews drinking has, in addition,
a sacrificial aspect. Wine is "holy unto the Lord."
It is a part of the Sabbath ritual and of every feast of the
year. Drunkenness would be not only a sin against one's

[p. <i>39</i>]

Among the inhabitants of Ireland, on the other hand 
a young race not far removed from the soil  excessive
drinking was an affront to the family and the Church.
Boys used to be sternly forbidden to drink. They were
lectured about the evils of drunkenness, although they saw
their fathers and brothers indulging in convivial drinking
bouts all the more intriguing because they were often supposed
to be kept secret from womenfolk. Their lives were
bleak, their land was poor, famine was never very far
away. There was no money for the simplest pleasures;
they could not afford early marriages, or even the fun of
courting, so what was there to do but drink? So they grew
up continually exposed to the idea of alcohol as their only
pleasure  all the more attractive because it was forbidden
 as opposed to the rigid prohibitions of the home.


If these surmises are correct, they will give encouragement
to those who believe that temperance, not prohibition,
can become by education and enlightened custom so
firmly implanted in our folkways that alcoholism will be
abolished by the power of our traditions.


These are the present theories and they more or less
dovetail. Personally, I feel sure that the reason, when it is
found, will be part psychiatric and part physiological. As
for the former, we know a little, and as for the latter,
nothing at all, although we are making new discoveries on
both the psychic and physical levels every day.

[p. <i>40</i>]

At the moment there is no definitive answer. One that so
far is as good as any other was given by an excellent
physician of my acquaintance when I asked him one day
why men drink to excess.


"Why?" he said. "Because they want to get drunk."

