TRANSCRIPT OF AUDIO FILE:
______________________________________________________________________________
BEGIN TRANSCRIPT:
THERAPIST: Hi George, how are you?
CLIENT: Good how are you?
THERAPIST: How was your Thanksgiving?
CLIENT: It was great actually, there was a little bit of a to do because we have (inaudible at 0:00:12.7) oven.
THERAPIST: Oh, no.
CLIENT: So it's made everything a little bit (inaudible at 0:00:16.6) at the end, but it worked out, and everything's okay.
THERAPIST: And the food came out all right?
CLIENT: The food came out perfect, the house didn't burn down. [0:00:22.2]
THERAPIST: Did you do any cooking?
CLIENT: I did actually, yeah.
THERAPIST: What did you do?
CLIENT: I helped out with a bunch of things during the day itself, and I made — what did I make? I made a sweet potato puree the day before. I helped make the stuffing with my mom, and I helped make this — what's it's called, it's like a spinach pie with some kind of cheese and bacon.
THERAPIST: Sounds good.
CLIENT: It's like this thing, like I'm always (inaudible at 0:00:43.7) it's really good, yeah.
THERAPIST: I (inaudible at 0:00:46.6) bacon.
CLIENT: It's like basically a quiche. I don't know, it's not really a quiche though, I don't know how to...
THERAPIST: So there's like a pie crust?
CLIENT: Basically, yeah. It's really good.
THERAPIST: So other than the fire?
CLIENT: Other than the fire that went really well, and that week — well, that was this past week actually because I was going to — I had a mixed time at Chicago State over the past two weeks since I saw you, some of it went well, and some of it didn't go as well. [0:01:09.0]
THERAPIST: Academically we're talking?
CLIENT: Yeah, and I'll break that down for you. Actually, I think that I'm probably going to do well doing the grades on everything, but I struggled a lot more with one thing that I had to do as opposed to a bunch of other things that were easier. The week that I saw you I'd just had two tests I remember, and we talked about that (inaudible at 0:01:24.3).
THERAPIST: You had just got it back and it went really well.
CLIENT: Yeah, and I'd just taken two new ones, and there was a math test I was worried about because I was a little bit uncertain about the material. And I actually, I didn't do as badly as I thought, I got a B which considering that I was worried about the material, and it was actually challenging for me, I was pretty happy with it. And I got an A minus on the psych test that I had that week too.
THERAPIST: Great.
CLIENT: So that also went well, and it seems like I've got testing pretty much on lockdown. But then I had an essay due in my lit class the next week, this past week when Thanksgiving was, and that did not go as well at all. I had a lot more problems getting that done on time. I ended up handing it in a little bit late because I struggled getting it in the day that it was due, and it was for a variety of reasons.
THERAPIST: Was that all right with the professor?
CLIENT: It was all right with the professor because...
THERAPIST: So they're not going to dock your grade?
CLIENT: I don't think so; he's like a really brilliant guy.
THERAPIST: So you were lucky in this (inaudible at 0:02:12.7).
CLIENT: I was lucky, yeah, and my paper itself was — I don't think that my writing was bad at all, but it's just that it took a lot more energy and time than it should have for me for a variety of reasons.
THERAPIST: And also, something that I worry about for you is that I think something that — handing something in late and someone's who's lenient can be reinforcing.
CLIENT: Oh, definitely. [0:02:30.3]
THERAPIST: (inaudible at 0:02:31.8) that worked out well.
CLIENT: Definitely.
THERAPIST: I could do this again.
CLIENT: And I know, to some degree in my head, I knew that my teacher was a really nice guy.
THERAPIST: Yeah, sometimes you know.
CLIENT: And is always understanding, nothing is like the...
THERAPIST: Did you e-mail him beforehand and let him know?
CLIENT: I e-mailed him as it was happening, that I didn't have it ready basically, and I talked to him about it in class. It wasn't like I just bailed on it totally, but (inaudible at 0:02:53.1).
THERAPIST: So you took some responsibility?
CLIENT: Yeah. I went in and I said, I'm really sorry, I tried to do this and I was struggling forever, and I'd already talked to him actually about how I had been going to Oberlin because he sort of asked me what my story was, and he was curious about me a little bit. And so, he was like, "Oh, well, I know that you have issues sometimes, so I don't want (inaudible at 0:03:10.1) you." It was really sweet of him.
THERAPIST: That was very nice.
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: So...
CLIENT: But yeah, pretty much, I can boil down what was problematic to me into two different areas, and one is sort of specific to it being a lit paper, but also general to papers in general because most of the papers I write are about things that are sort of open to interpretation, and where it's like very subjective. I had one paper very early in the semester, but it was very factual, it was just like summarize the author's argument in this political science, theoretical work. [0:03:44.7]
THERAPIST: And that was easy?
CLIENT: And that was easy because I didn't really have any like...
THERAPIST: Brain work?
CLIENT: Any brain work or need to worry about am I doing (inaudible at 0:03:51.5) about this. And actually, I found that that's probably the most (inaudible at 0:03:56.1) aspect for me is that I get one — I get one — I have this hyped up opinion of my ability to do really well, but then I apply that really harshly to whatever I have done, and say that it's not acceptable to that standard, and I sort of have these other sort of problems that come into play in that particular area because I don't really feel like that when I'm preparing for a test. I'm not like, oh, I'm preparing for this test wrong. I know that I'm learning some things that are going to help me do well on the test.
THERAPIST: And test preparing is usually factual?
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: But in literature analysis, there's always room that your opinion...
CLIENT: And especially...
THERAPIST: Could be wrong.
CLIENT: Even when you're studying for — even when I'm studying for a literature test, that's easy because you do all you can do to prepare, is to be factually prepared. You can't really plan out your argument beforehand, and doing it on the fly, I guess, is like a little bit easier for me, but watching me assemble an opinion over six pages or eight pages or whatever (inaudible at 0:04:47.4).
THERAPIST: So did you find that you were sitting there furiously writing for days, or that you were like, this is too hard, I'm going to take a break, and then took a lot, too many breaks?
CLIENT: It was a combination of the two. At first, I delayed a little bit too much when I had started to budget it into my schedule. And so then I didn't get as early the start as I wanted to, because at first I was like, oh, this is really hard, and then started to construct my opinion, and I'll just sort of not push myself as much as I can, and write an outline and start to do some work, but not really like push it and actually churn some stuff out. And then as it got closer to the day that it was due, Tuesday, right before Thanksgiving, I think on Sunday I was like, I really need to be serious about this. I'm not going to let myself take (inaudible at 0:05:24.1) breaks. [0:05:23.7]
THERAPIST: When was it due?
CLIENT: It was due on Tuesday.
THERAPIST: Oh, right.
CLIENT: So I got some work done, and had a lot of helpful quotes and thoughts that were running around, like not an essay format at all, by Sunday, and I had two pages of that. And then I spent Sunday straight through Tuesday — I mean, I have a big day of class on Monday, so I had that sort of distracting me. But I spent a lot of time writing, and I ended up tearing apart a lot of what I did. And I changed essay topics midway through, and abandoned all of my work which was actually in retrospect a bad move.
THERAPIST: So do you think the first one was actually fine?
CLIENT: I think the first one was actually fine, or that what problems were there, I could have dealt with in a more effective way than tossing everything out the window and starting over again.
THERAPIST: So what is the main thing when you threw that essay away basically, and press delete, I assume?
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: At some point.
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: What was kind of like the emotion you were feeling like? Was there anxiety?
CLIENT: It was definitely anxiety and also, a low frustration tolerance for my own mistakes in a way; like, I over blew the importance of the few things that I had wrong, and I ignored other parts that were pretty solid, and I think that that was...
THERAPIST: And what things were you thinking in your head?
CLIENT: I was thinking this essay is going to make it clear that I'm not really smart, and that I'm going to be shamed forever because (inaudible at 0:06:41.9).
THERAPIST: Like, if I can't do well at Chicago State?
CLIENT: Yeah, if I can't do a good essay for this easy prompt at my Chicago State class that is easier than my lit classes at Oberlin, how am I going to write an 80 page dissertation or whatever about (inaudible at 0:06:54.5)?
THERAPIST: So you were kind of like, this essay defines my entire career in literature?
CLIENT: Basically, yeah. I sort of made it really important in a way that it wasn't really. [0:07:04.3]
THERAPIST: And if it doesn't come out well, then what?
CLIENT: If it doesn't come out well, then it will be horrible basically is what I was thinking.
THERAPIST: So a lot of awful (inaudible at 0:07:15.3)?
CLIENT: Yeah, I definitely awful-ized a lot.
THERAPIST: And rather than fix the parts that were problematic, you just scraped the whole thing?
CLIENT: Yeah. I didn't step in secondarily, but also, my frustration tolerance was really low in the first place for dealing with my own frustrations in my own writing.
THERAPIST: Did you ever thing maybe, let's save this somewhere else, and then start some more, or did you really delete it?
CLIENT: I didn't delete it totally. Instinctually, I left it on the page and I started writing again on the next page, and then I had actually gotten enough work done on a new idea, that I had more work done on that one, and then I abandoned the old one. And so, in retrospect, I was like, maybe it shouldn't have gotten to that point already, but by then it was sort of too late, and I had some it done with the new topic.
THERAPIST: Well, that happens sometimes.
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: But why would it be so awful if you had a paper that was — I mean, a B plus, or were thinking it was like a C?
CLIENT: I don't think it was that bad. I think that the paper that I handed in, actually, it was fine and I think that...
THERAPIST: No, but the one...
CLIENT: The one that I didn't hand in that I scraped?
THERAPIST: Yeah, like what you could have worked it out to be? What would really be awful, what grade to you would have been awful to get? [0:08:18.9]
CLIENT: Something bad which is extremely unlikely like...
THERAPIST: Like a D?
CLIENT: To me, bad is like lower than a C plus, I would say.
THERAPIST: So you really thought it was going to be really bad. It wasn't even like you were holding yourself to a super high standard?
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: Or I mean, you probably were, but...
CLIENT: I was and I was imagining — I was...
THERAPIST: If the paper had a flaw then it was a failure?
CLIENT: Yeah. The standard wasn't that high, but the way in which I interpreted the information against the standard was sort of skewed.
THERAPIST: So if you didn't meet the expectation that you expected from yourself, then automatically your professor is going to fail you?
CLIENT: Yeah. And also, it sort of came with a lot of — like a sort of anticipation and a worry about being judged, especially because that's sort of like my thing, and what I'm potentially going to get my BA in.
THERAPIST: By your professor or by who else?
CLIENT: By my parents really also, because it's easy for me to say, well, I didn't do that good on this math test; I only got a B, but it's math and they're not worried about it because they don't expect me to be a brilliant math scholar, but because it's like — it's also the field...
THERAPIST: The thing that you chose to do.
CLIENT: It's the thing I'm supposed to do, and it's also the thing that they know I'm good at because they're both really good at it, and they both went to grad school for English literature, and they're both really sort of like proud of my ability to do that, and so...
(crosstalk)
THERAPIST: Do they read your work generally? [0:09:32.9]
CLIENT: No, they don't, but they have been asking me how my assignments have been on one (inaudible at 0:09:37.2).
THERAPIST: So it was more about, like if my parents were to find out that I did bad...
CLIENT: Or I wouldn't be able to stare them in the face, and be like, I just got a C on my English literature essay because I was (inaudible at 0:09:47.7).
THERAPIST: They would be like, oh, my God, my son's actually stupid?
CLIENT: Yeah, or like, oh, my God, my son has no hope basically.
THERAPIST: Do you think that your parents would do that?
CLIENT: I don't know, they would be disappointed, I don't think it would be that bad though.
THERAPIST: Do you think they could possibly think a little bit differently like, my son...
CLIENT: They'd probably be like, oh, my son was lazy and he just didn't work enough, and that's what happened.
(crosstalk)
THERAPIST: And I think that's what you prefer for some reason, rather to be stupid, you'd rather be lazy, right?
CLIENT: Yeah. It's a cop out, yeah.
THERAPIST: But what you were anxious about was that they were actually doubting your ability?
CLIENT: Yeah, or that they would in the future, yeah. [0:10:24.1]
THERAPIST: What if your parents doubted your ability?
CLIENT: I guess nothing (inaudible at 0:10:30.7).
THERAPIST: Could you not go on with your writing?
CLIENT: No, I could.
THERAPIST: Are you sure?
CLIENT: I'm not though (inaudible at 0:10:37.5). I'm not really sure.
THERAPIST: They doubt your ability, just stop writing right away and never pick up a pen again?
CLIENT: No, I don't think it would be that dramatic, but I would definitely hold that doubt inside of me, and it would come up again when I was trying to write again, but I don't think I would feel it that constantly, and say, I can never pick up a pen or doubt it before I started it. It's sort of when I start the process.
THERAPIST: So it would be disappointing?
CLIENT: It would be disappointing.
THERAPIST: And a little upsetting?
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: But not awful?
CLIENT: Not awful.
THERAPIST: But were you telling yourself that when you were writing?
CLIENT: I was trying to, but it was hard not to think that it was awful basically, and it was also hard not to think that my essay was awful. That was really the biggest awful-izing (inaudible at 0:11:11.8).
THERAPIST: That my essay is awful?
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: And I can't stand it, and you probably took too many breaks because it was awful.
CLIENT: Yeah. [0:11:20.1]
THERAPIST: Right?
CLIENT: Yeah, especially in the...
THERAPIST: Was any of it having to work this hard is awful?
CLIENT: A little bit, I mean...
THERAPIST: (inaudible at 0:11:26.4) to work as hard?
CLIENT: That's been something that I haven't gotten rid of in my process of like...
(crosstalk)
THERAPIST: I (inaudible at 0:11:31.7).
CLIENT: Yeah, I don't (inaudible at 0:11:33.0) either, but I've gotten a lot better at telling myself right away as opposed to waiting a really long time before I even start think about what (inaudible at 0:11:42.1).
THERAPIST: (inaudible at 0:11:41.2) exam.
CLIENT: Exactly, I'm like, hey, this is really (inaudible at 0:11:44.6).
THERAPIST: But it's hard to change the idea that if you were to do badly on something, individual assignment, that you consider yourself to be talented in, then that would be awful?
CLIENT: Yeah. That's a way harder thing for me to consider because to me, it wouldn't really bother me that much honestly if I got a bad grade in my math class. I would say it's not my thing.
THERAPIST: Why would a grade on one essay determine your writing skill?
CLIENT: It wouldn't, you're right because that's just like one sample...
THERAPIST: It's just one essay?
CLIENT: Yeah, but I was also saying, well, all my other writing hasn't been good in a while either, and I always cop out like this and I never really produce something that I'm really proud of in my literature essays. Because that's something that has been (inaudible at 0:12:29.5).
THERAPIST: So, George, what if it turned out that writing was something that was enjoyable for you, but you weren't a genius at it, just good enough?
CLIENT: That would be okay.
THERAPIST: You sure?
CLIENT: Yeah, because I'm not really sure — like I actually have very little attachment to writing analytical literature essays about books. It's not something that I like particularly enjoy doing.
THERAPIST: I don't know if I believe you because you tell yourself it would be awful. So is it just the judgment of other people knowing that you're actually not that good at it?
CLIENT: I guess I care a little bit actually, I don't know, but at the same time, it feels like that's not something that's really important to me on a core level, that I could easily discard it. [0:13:09.6]
THERAPIST: But it's more the opinion of other people knowing that you weren't good at it?
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: Specifically, in this example, your parents.
CLIENT: And also, it just sort of makes it feel really surreal and odd, that that's what I'm, like, struggling really, really hard to overcome my natural tendencies to go back to college to do if I'm not really that attached to it. So it's like a complicated thing to say, and that's makes it harder for me to say I don't really care about this. Because I want to care about it so that I have a (inaudible at 0:13:35.0).
THERAPIST: You can care about it, but it doesn't mean that that's what you want to do in the future.
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: It doesn't mean — even if you're not — I mean, some people do things that they're not that great at and they still enjoy it.
CLIENT: That's true.
THERAPIST: Right? Or you find that maybe I'm not great at writing analytical literature, but I can do something else while in writing.
CLIENT: And, like, somehow apply these skills in a different way, yeah.
THERAPIST: But would it be awful if your parents knew that you were a fraud?
CLIENT: It wouldn't be that awful, and I know intellectually that it wouldn't be that awful, like, when I try to imagine how my parents would actually respond to that. My mom would be sad, but know that it's just sort of her dream and not really that connected to reality, and my dad would joke about how he would do the same thing, and not read books, but then write essays about them when he was in college. And he would say, well, maybe you're not as good as that as I was, but it's fine.
THERAPIST: Is it really their dream for you to be a writer? [0:14:35.4]
CLIENT: No, not specifically that at all, but it's just their dream for me to be really passionate about getting an education in something, and that's an easy thing for them to see me being passionate about because I really like reading, and it's something that I've expressed interest in, and it's what they did.
THERAPIST: So can you be passionate about reading, but not passionate about your major, and still do it and get it done?
CLIENT: I haven't so far, but I think that I can, yeah, but I haven't...
(crosstalk)
THERAPIST: Because I don't think the passions and the spark, right?
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: You don't really feel true passion for analytical writing?
CLIENT: I don't.
THERAPIST: But it's the major you chose and you're almost done, and it's certainly honing your skills at writing.
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: Right?
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: So...
CLIENT: I don't know if it's really honing my skills at writing honestly. I feel like saying that because I feel like...
THERAPIST: (inaudible at 0:15:23.9) it because you're not creative?
CLIENT: No, I feel like on some level I haven't really improved the craft in which — that I used to write an essay since high school. I feel like I'm using the same...
THERAPIST: All right, so maybe it's not getting better, but it's really not getting worse.
CLIENT: It's not getting worse, no.
THERAPIST: And it sounds like you've always been a pretty good writer.
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: Even if you haven't been the best writer.
CLIENT: Yeah, no, I definitely have been passable, and I can write essays about things that I haven't really read or not (inaudible at 0:15:45.4) familiar with and do okay at them.
THERAPIST: So you're a pretty good writer?
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: But you might not be the best, and you might not feel passion for it?
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: Is that okay?
CLIENT: Is it, yeah. [0:15:53.3]
THERAPIST: Yeah?
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: Can you keep doing work?
CLIENT: I can, yeah.
THERAPIST: I mean, even though you don't feel passionate for — what was the essay you wrote on?
CLIENT: The essay was — well, there were a few different topics, and as I had mentioned, I, like, switched between them. I ended up writing a comparison of a play by (inaudible at 0:16:08.2) Hughes about — well, there weren't slaves, but they were — basically (inaudible at 0:16:11.9) play and a play be Theatre Award that are both about different African American families.
THERAPIST: Sharecroppers?
CLIENT: Yeah. The first one was about sharecroppers, and the second one was about low, middle class families in Chicago during the Great Depression, and the (inaudible at 0:16:26.9) movement. I don't know if you know anything about that at all. It's (inaudible at 0:16:31.0).
THERAPIST: So it was interesting...
CLIENT: It was interesting.
THERAPIST: Books that you read.
CLIENT: No, I actually really enjoyed this lit class because I would never think to take a class about African American contemporary theatre, and it was pretty...
THERAPIST: So was there any enjoyable part about writing an essay?
CLIENT: No.
THERAPIST: So maybe...
CLIENT: Reading the plays was great, I like reading the plays.
THERAPIST: So maybe you don't feel passion for analytical writing.
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: But you're getting something out of reading all these books, and you're getting a broader knowledge base, especially at Chicago State.
CLIENT: Yeah. [0:16:57.6]
THERAPIST: Literature that you weren't getting before.
CLIENT: And also, I have...
THERAPIST: And your writing is good.
CLIENT: Yeah, I have some technical ability that I can apply to it.
THERAPIST: And your writing is good, but it might not be amazing, and this might not be your career path. Is that awful if you had to sit down and do something that you're not that passionate about, and that you might not get an A on.
CLIENT: No, it isn't awful.
THERAPIST: And then telling yourself that it's awful, you end up writing — taking so (inaudible at 0:17:22.5) write it, going between topics.
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: So telling yourself it's awful is not helping.
CLIENT: It's definitely not helping.
THERAPIST: Telling yourself itself it's awful if my parents judge me.
CLIENT: Isn't helping.
THERAPIST: And then probably your professor too?
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: Because you want people to see you as smart and talented.
CLIENT: Especially in the field that I feel like I should be in.
THERAPIST: Yeah, but it's not even the field that you think you should be in.
CLIENT: I know.
THERAPIST: It's kind of silly.
CLIENT: I just have that perception because people voice it, like oh, that's something that you're really good at.
THERAPIST: Yeah, but you seem like you're good at a lot of things, right?
CLIENT: Yeah, I have some talents in other areas (inaudible at 0:17:50.5).
THERAPIST: Seems like a pretty good psychology.
CLIENT: I guess so, yeah. I don't know if I would do it though (inaudible at 0:17:55.4).
THERAPIST: (inaudible at 0:17:57.9) do it (inaudible at 0:17:56.8) deal with these people (inaudible at 0:17:59.5). But so you tell yourself that it's awful, that my parents are going to judge me. That would be awful if they judged me. And you know that they're probably not going to, and it's not helping you.
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: What made you get it done, just like pure crazy, like, fervor, writing fervor?
CLIENT: Pure crazy writing fervor and also, repeating to myself, like, I have to get this in as soon as possible. I have to stop wasting my time and going over the same thing, and making the same paragraph even better than it was (inaudible at 0:18:31.6).
THERAPIST: But what if you actually use EBT?
CLIENT: That might be (inaudible at 0:18:36.5).
THERAPIST: Did you think about that? It would probably be too stressed to think (inaudible at 0:18:39.4).
CLIENT: I was (inaudible at 0:18:41.0) about that obviously, like I wasn't really thinking about it that rationally.
THERAPIST: Do you think it would have been helpful to say it's not awful if this isn't the best paper I've ever written?
CLIENT: It would have been helpful. I wasn't really thinking about it. I wasn't think about awful-izing at all during the entire process (inaudible at 0:18:51.9).
THERAPIST: That might be something to think about. Even when you're in that kind of state to write down — go through one of your worksheets and say, what's going on? What's the emotion I'm feeling, or the dysfunctional behavior that I'm feeling? What are my rational beliefs, and then dispute them. Because I know that you are capable of this.
CLIENT: Yeah. [0:19:11.5]
THERAPIST: To say it's not awful if I don't get a A on this, and it's not awful if my parents find out that I don't get an A. It's not awful if my parents find out that I'm really not that passionate about it.
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: Maybe you still have a way to go before you find out what your calling in life is, right?
CLIENT: Mm-hmm.
THERAPIST: Maybe there a lot of things that you could do in life.
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: And you're just going to eventually choose one, but it's not awful if it's not the one that you thought it was supposed to be.
CLIENT: Yeah. It's definitely not awful, and I think that really, like the number one reason that I didn't step outside of awful-izing it and turning it into something really terrible and awful is that — like I kept on remembering how much it was a struggle for me to try to write the essay that got me (inaudible at 0:19:53.2) from Oberlin and a bunch of other essays there. And I sort of remember...
THERAPIST: (inaudible at 0:19:59.6) on the past?
CLIENT: Yeah, and it was hard for me to escape the remembrances of how I felt in the situations in the past, and to sort of be like, oh, my God, I feel like exactly the same way right now, like how do I escape this? What do I do? It's awful.
THERAPIST: And you failed last time, so it's going to be a failure again this time.
CLIENT: Yeah. And it's the first time I've tried to tackle anything like that at all.
THERAPIST: But you did okay, maybe it's not an A (inaudible at 0:20:18.8).
CLIENT: But it might be, like, I'd be surprised if it was lower than a B, I'd say.
THERAPIST: So you worked hard, and next time you now know you have some other skills that you could use, right?
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: So RBT can work...
CLIENT: Can definitely (inaudible at 0:20:34.2).
THERAPIST: More for just then procrastination, right?
CLIENT: It can work for...
THERAPIST: And deal with those emotions?
CLIENT: (inaudible at 0:20:37.8).
THERAPIST: And anxieties. So if you were thinking it's not awful if I don't get an A. I'll just do the best I can do and I'll hand it in when I'm done. Do you think you'd feel less anxiety?
CLIENT: I think it would definitely help, yeah.
THERAPIST: So you just feel like a little concerned?
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: (inaudible at 0:20:54.6) a lot of concern.
CLIENT: I think I would feel less concerned and then — I think I would have to reapply that strategically more than once in the process (inaudible at 0:21:04.2).
THERAPIST: So just keep telling yourself that.
CLIENT: And I think that ultimately, that would definitely help, yeah. [0:21:08.5]
THERAPIST: Do you think you would have started the paper earlier?
CLIENT: Yeah, if I had started to apply RBT like on Saturday or Friday the week before, then that would have been a lot easier for me.
(crosstalk)
THERAPIST: Yeah, then you might have started it...
CLIENT: (inaudible at 0:21:19.8) on time.
THERAPIST: (inaudible at 0:21:19.8) earlier and it would put less pressure on the essay.
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: But then knowing that I still have to get it done. I'm still going to do the best job I can do, but it's not awful if I do less than what I expected, or what I imagine people did expect of me.
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: Right?
CLIENT: No, it is. And it's so funny that I didn't think of applying RBT at all because I was actually really self-conscious about applying RBT during Thanksgiving because I had this like...
THERAPIST: During the fire?
CLIENT: No, no, not during the fire. It was just, like, too much of a instinctual reaction. Like, oh, my God, there's a fire. But no, when we had a bunch of relatives come over for the event itself, there was a bunch of tension because my mom and my grandma have been like really hesitant, and sort of awkward about telling other more distant members of the family about what happened to me, and how I'm not going to graduate from college in five years, and I'm going to a different school because my other school asked me to go to another school. And we hadn't totally spread that truth among all the distant cousins and aunts and uncles and people. And there were some of them that they'd felt really awkward about talking to, and it sort of made me anticipate it as an awful event. And I was like, it's not going to be awful. One, I don't really care what these people think at all, it doesn't really affect me in the slightest. I only see them twice a year. Two, they're probably not going to think that it's that awful. Their, you know (inaudible at 0:22:41.5) is graduating in four years isn't (inaudible at 0:22:43.6) like, I doubt that. Not to be awful about it.
THERAPIST: (inaudible at 0:22:46.7).
CLIENT: I can tell if I was being like extremely abused (inaudible at 0:22:51.6).
THERAPIST: No, you did.
CLIENT: Okay.
THERAPIST: You were, but that's fine. I appreciate it. [0:22:56.4]
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: So yeah.
CLIENT: But yeah, like, I tried to one, tell myself that it wouldn't be...
THERAPIST: That's kind of a rationalization.
CLIENT: It is, yeah.
THERAPIST: (inaudible at 0:23:04.4) sense of...
(crosstalk)
THERAPIST: (inaudible at 0:23:06.1) my cousin, but whatever. Say it doesn't really matter what they think of me and I...
CLIENT: And to just try to reconsider the stakes of what was actually going on, and what it would actually matter (inaudible at 0:23:17.0).
THERAPIST: And they might not really care that much because (inaudible at 0:23:18.3).
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: (inaudible at 0:23:17.7) and you don't know yet.
CLIENT: Yeah. And in talking to (inaudible at 0:23:21.1) they were like, "Oh, that's good, that's nice that you're living in the city, great."
THERAPIST: So it wasn't so bad.
CLIENT: Yeah, it wasn't that bad at all, and I even was able to casually reassure my parents, although I tried not to get too involved in their concern about it. But I was like, it's not going to be a big deal.
THERAPIST: Yeah, were they, you think, embarrassed?
CLIENT: My mom was embarrassed about it. My mom's like, it's been an issue since this happened, my mom is like, "I'm so embarrassed about what happened, and I don't want to tell any of my friends who used to know you when you were in lower school because I'm just going to hear about how their kids are so successful, and going to all these amazing places and doing all (inaudible at 0:23:54.3) things."
THERAPIST: That must be hard?
CLIENT: Definitely, it is hard and I'm like, mom, you're being crazy, and I don't want you to. [0:24:00.9]
THERAPIST: So she's basically said to you, "I'm embarrassed about what happened?"
CLIENT: Yeah, it's very blatant, there's no hiding of that at all.
THERAPIST: But it's funny because she's still so supportive of you. It's not like she's angry with you.
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: She's just embarrassed at what happened?
CLIENT: It's just that she has like an insane social consciousness, where she's like, any problems I have about like not being sure of myself, and not expressing what I want, and worrying too much about what other people are thinking about me, totally come from her. She doesn't like (inaudible at 0:24:31.1).
THERAPIST: She cares a lot what people think about that?
CLIENT: Yeah, like the vision that other people have of her that obviously, she's constructing, they're not telling her about it is the most important thing to her.
THERAPIST: Did that hurt your feelings at all that she was kind of embarrassed?
CLIENT: It didn't really hurt my feelings, no. It just felt sort of ridiculous.
THERAPIST: Like you're being ridiculous?
CLIENT: Yeah. [0:24:47.1]
THERAPIST: That's a pretty healthy way of seeing it.
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: Some people could be, you know, like, oh, no, so disappointed (inaudible at 0:24:53.3).
CLIENT: It must be awful.
THERAPIST: But it sounds like you kind of recognize that your mom has her own neuroses, and this isn't your issue, it's her issue?
CLIENT: Yeah. No, because it definitely used to be like, my mom has been saying the same thing forever, and when I first came into Oberlin, and when I was (inaudible at 0:25:05.8) obviously, it wasn't my parents first choice for me, or what they immediately thought of as like the school that was their perfect fit for me. And they were like — like, I remember my mom went to a college counselor (inaudible at 0:25:16.2) like cried in front of my college counselor when she read out the list of all my choices. And I was like, oh, maybe I am an awful son because my mom cried in public. But like (inaudible at 0:25:23.8).
THERAPIST: Probably because the choices weren't Harvard and Yale?
CLIENT: Exactly, because there was some community schools as my backups, and I had (inaudible at 0:25:31.9) school because I thought I wanted to be a photographer. And I was like, at that point in my life, it was a lot harder for me to say, oh, it's just you being ridiculous, but I sort of learned that over time.
THERAPIST: Good, and it sounds like, I mean, any maybe actual disappointments she might have that you're not passionate about what she thought you would be, I mean, it could be real, right?
CLIENT: Yeah. [0:25:55.1]
THERAPIST: Because you were saying, "Oh, she probably doesn't feel like that." But it could be real.
CLIENT: No, it is real, I'm sure that she does feel like that, but that she also knows that it's really all in her head, and that it's not like actually...
THERAPIST: And it doesn't really affect (inaudible at 0:26:07.5).
CLIENT: It's not like (inaudible at 0:26:06.2) me and what I'm ready to do, and what makes sense for me in my life.
THERAPIST: Well, it sounds like you have a good handle on your mother's (inaudible at 0:26:15.1).
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: Everyone should have (inaudible at 0:26:16.6).
CLIENT: I've had a lot of practice getting a handle (inaudible at 0:26:17.2).
THERAPIST: So have you thought more about visited Oberlin?
CLIENT: I have and I talked to some of my friends because that was part of my homework (inaudible at 0:26:26.2).
THERAPIST: Yes, it was.
CLIENT: And I had trouble getting in touch with all of the people I wanted to get in touch with. Some of them are like, flakey about responding to my messages.
THERAPIST: (inaudible at 0:26:34.7) right now.
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: (inaudible at 0:26:34.0) a little busy, crazy (inaudible at 0:26:35.7).
CLIENT: And that's ultimately, I decided that I don't really have time to go up before I'm done with this semester. But I'd like to go up some time in January pretty soon after winter break is over, and everyone's back up there. But that was pretty much (inaudible at 0:26:50.2).
THERAPIST: It might be a good idea to like, to renew these relationships, especially if you are worried about people feeling more akin to her, to just keep in touch.
CLIENT: Yeah, and I did that with some of the people — it's weird, I should have done it with the people who I'm actually worried about that happening with. Because I talked to all the people I know aren't really going to care, and they're still going to be my friends because I didn't have to worry about it. But there are a few people who it might actually be an issue with, it's a really small group.
THERAPIST: And do you want to see them?
CLIENT: I do, yeah, because I was really friends with them. In particular, it's the people who live in the house with her because I feel like it's a lot harder for them to not be so in touch with what she's saying all the time, and her take on things, and to not be in touch with mine.
THERAPIST: So do you think you could reach out to them?
CLIENT: Yeah, I could. [0:27:33.3]
THERAPIST: Because that might alleviate some of your anxiety. Even if it doesn't go well, you'll say...
CLIENT: At least I'll know.
THERAPIST: (inaudible at 0:27:34.6) whatever, there are jackasses that are going to take her side and be immature.
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: And I'll just focus my energy on maintaining friendships with them, rather than going up there and then having it blow up in your face.
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: And that would probably decrease the anxiety about it blowing up in your face, and having an awkward interaction.
CLIENT: Yeah, if I already know what's going to happen, then I can't really imagine the worst possible scenario.
THERAPIST: But I also think it will do good to challenger your social anxiety.
CLIENT: Oh, yeah.
THERAPIST: To get in touch with them.
CLIENT: Definitely.
THERAPIST: Because you probably are avoiding that for a reason.
CLIENT: Yeah, and definitely with the ones that I just said I should have gotten in touch with, I am avoiding it for that reason, and that's why it was easier for me to get in touch with the people I already aren't worried about and that I know it isn't really going to matter to.
THERAPIST: So what do you tell yourself when you're avoiding it, like, it's just going to be an uncomfortable conversation that I'm going to have? [0:28:23.6]
CLIENT: Yeah, basically, what I tell myself is, well, I know it's not going to be awful, and I try to remind myself that the worse case — that's okay. I'm tired too. I know that — and this was something that I repeated a lot, I was like, worse case scenario, it's going to be like a temporary, short term disagreement that's going to fade because it's not really that important to any friends. And at most, they'll be a little bit opinionated about it for the next few months, and then it will sort of fade from their memory, and they'll graduate from college anyway, so it's not going to be that big of a deal for them. But then my response to that line of thinking was, well, maybe I'll just wait a little bit until (inaudible at 0:28:57.4) awkward, so it didn't totally (inaudible at 0:28:58.1).
THERAPIST: So could you deal with an awkward interaction?
CLIENT: I could, yeah, because I was really certain that it wouldn't be that awkward with anyone really.
THERAPIST: And I think it will be good. You know what they say, you need to increase your number of awkward interactions if you want to get over this.
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: Or get passed it or be able to deal with this. So more awkward that the phone call is, the better it is for you.
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: And your social development.
CLIENT: Yeah, that is a good way to think of it. I should tell myself that, the more awkward it is.
THERAPIST: Get into awkward interactions wherever you can. (inaudible at 0:29:33.7) and then you'll be able to handle anything.
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: How are things with Vicky, good?
CLIENT: Yeah, things are going well with her. I saw her a few times. It's a little bit complicated because she was living with one of her friends from high school I knew from back in the day too, but they sort of were awful roommates, and always had conflict, and they were always stressed out thinking about the other person being at their apartment. It was just like (inaudible at 0:29:59.8) and so she just moved out, like, back with her parents and that's a little bit uncertain what our interactions are going to look like when we don't have a convenient space to go to absent our parents.
THERAPIST: Got you, is her house close to yours?
CLIENT: No, it's not. Her house is, like, a lot further than her apartment was. Because her apartment was really close, which is like a lot more manageable, but her parents live — it's like almost at the edge of the county. It's this tiny little place (inaudible at 0:30:24.6) in Reddick.
THERAPIST: I actually got lost there. (inaudible at 0:30:26.4).
CLIENT: It's really confusing. [0:30:28.1]
THERAPIST: Yeah, I was like, where is the (inaudible at 0:30:31.0)? Yeah, that's right by Bradley, right?
CLIENT: Yeah, but yeah (inaudible at 0:30:38.1) far from me.
THERAPIST: So yeah, that's a good distance away.
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: So you'll have to work something out, I guess.
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: Do you parents know that you're dating?
CLIENT: Yeah, I already talked to them about that a few weeks ago actually.
THERAPIST: Your parents?
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: Or her parents?
CLIENT: Her parents know too, yeah.
THERAPIST: Have you seen them since you started?
CLIENT: I have, yeah.
THERAPIST: So it's (inaudible at 0:30:54.3) back to high school days, I guess.
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: It's manageable. [0:30:58.4]
CLIENT: Yeah, it's not the end of the world, and actually it's sort of a good thing in one sense because I don't want it to get too relationship — not too relationship-y because I'm not going to lie, it is a little bit of a relationship, but I don't want it to get too serious or too long term or too committed and I feel like...
THERAPIST: You feel like if she's living in an apartment, you're likely to stay over there?
CLIENT: Or like more likely to want to be there a lot more because there's no reason for me not to want to come. But now I have the, I don't want to be too much (inaudible at 0:31:26.7) parents (inaudible at 0:31:28.0) reason which is a good one.
THERAPIST: I mean, if the relationship is progressing, is that something to be afraid of?
CLIENT: It's not, but the only thing that I wouldn't be afraid of because I'm asserting about what I want in the situation, is that I want to be single when I go back to Oberlin, and I don't want to have a different, complicated long term relationship that I have to deal with because I knew that it didn't make sense for me now, and I don't think it's going to make sense for me suddenly like seven months from now.
THERAPIST: Why wouldn't it make sense for you then?
CLIENT: Well one, I think that it's going to be hard in particular because I've sort of like wanted to be single at Oberlin, and idealized it while I wasn't for so long, and thought about (inaudible at 0:32:09.3).
THERAPIST: You were kind of single.
CLIENT: I was kind of, but I didn't really feel at liberty to actually explore it basically, and so I am sort of looking forward to having that freedom to be single, and enjoy having the opportunity to hook up with various girls and guys (inaudible at 0:32:24.3).
THERAPIST: And don't want another open relationship.
CLIENT: Yeah, and I don't think that Vicky would be down with that in the same way that Sasha was because there's not like the convenient, gender bending flip of that, that worked out, so not so well.
THERAPIST: So you kind of do feel like staying in this relationship. I guess you have a long time before...
CLIENT: Yeah, that's why I'm trying not to worry about it too much, but I'm keeping it on my radar screen that I don't want it to be...
THERAPIST: I just think that you should be careful too. Remember what we thought about what's more important, getting your chance to explore, and how about with people or preventing a potentially good relationship.
CLIENT: Yeah. I don't want to prevent a potentially good relationship because it actually seems like it could be potentially really good, and I don't want to...
THERAPIST: And to break up with that or to not prevent that from getting closer for fear of not being able to do something that you always thought you wanted to do, you know what I mean? [0:33:20.1]
CLIENT: Because I could easily change my mind about that over the next eight months.
THERAPIST: Because it is a long time.
CLIENT: It is a long time, you're right.
THERAPIST: And something that you want then might not be something that you want now, and just because like a long distance relationship wasn't feasible with Sasha.
CLIENT: It doesn't mean it's not necessarily...
THERAPIST: Doesn't mean it's not going to be feasible with Vicky.
CLIENT: You're right.
THERAPIST: But it is things to keep open because I think you kind of (inaudible at 0:33:43.0) you have, well, I'm going to be single when I go back to — but that's your choice.
CLIENT: It is my choice, yeah. I don't have to.
THERAPIST: Just because it's experience you want to have doesn't mean that you should have it now.
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: Or at Oberlin or any of those experience, I guess not with those specific people maybe.
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: That you could have at any point.
CLIENT: That's true, yeah.
THERAPIST: Right?
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: I mean, you could hook up with them now if you wanted.
CLIENT: Mm-hmm, yeah, I could just go up there and do it if I want to.
THERAPIST: So (inaudible at 0:34:11.8) think about.
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: Because I don't think you should prevent yourself from being happy.
CLIENT: (inaudible at 0:34:16.8).
THERAPIST: And the cultivation of a relationship if it's a good relationship. [0:34:19.9]
CLIENT: Yeah. I wouldn't want to do that either. But I'm not that worried about it actually because we sort of talked about how we don't really know what our long term plans are. We might be somewhere different over the next year. So again, that might change over the next (inaudible at 0:34:36.3) also.
THERAPIST: So it sounds like you're on top of it. What do you want to work on for this week? Did you do anymore cooking research or...
CLIENT: I did and I almost signed up to actually take a two day cooking class over the Thanksgiving weekend. But I knew that it wasn't really a good idea.
THERAPIST: (inaudible at 0:34:53.9).
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: When is your last class?
CLIENT: Well, the last class I have is like the 19th or the 20th, but then there's a finals week, and I'm done with finals the 23rd.
THERAPIST: Because that's right before Christmas?
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: So maybe you could even book one right after Christmas as your reward for doing so well.
CLIENT: Yeah, that would be nice actually.
THERAPIST: Yeah?
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: So you could book one there. Have you given more thought to going into one of the kitchens and kind of working for free? Remember we talked about like...
CLIENT: Yeah, I have thought about that, and I sort of went through a bunch of places like closer to me in Indiana if I wanted to find something that's pretty local. And there are a bunch of restaurants, and the only thing that I'm worried about is finding one where I could actually get work because I've had this weird experience that a lot of — there's a bunch of (inaudible at 0:35:43.5) restaurants in my particular area of Indiana. I don't know whatever chance with that to be true, but I found in a few different Asian restaurants, I tried to work in that often — not always but often there's like unified Asian or like Chinese or Japanese speaking kitchen staff. And there's like a barrier to entry if you don't speak Japanese, you can't be on the team.
THERAPIST: Well, I guess there's only one way to find out.
CLIENT: Yeah, which is just to go to them.
THERAPIST: An awkward rejection.
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: Which could be beneficial for you.
CLIENT: Yeah, it could be.
THERAPIST: Right.
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: So maybe you could see it as, yeah, this could be awkward, they might say no.
CLIENT: But it will be worth it to get out there and try it. [0:36:20.1]
THERAPIST: For a variety of reasons.
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: One, you could actually end up getting some experience. Two, it will just be a way of dealing with awkward...
CLIENT: Awkward interactions.
THERAPIST: Increasing your ability to tolerate that discomfort.
CLIENT: Yeah. Three, it's helping me with I'm getting a job skill no matter what I'm trying to get a job in.
THERAPIST: Exactly.
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: So you think you could do that maybe this week, just go to one place?
CLIENT: I could go to one place this week, yeah.
THERAPIST: All right.
CLIENT: Counting this week as like, from this Thursday to next Thursday.
THERAPIST: Yeah (inaudible at 0:36:48.1).
CLIENT: I don't know if I could do it tomorrow.
THERAPIST: No, I don't think that's so good. Okay?
CLIENT: Okay.
THERAPIST: Sound good, and I guess, yeah, and you could find the time to start booking that cooking class and getting it done, right?
CLIENT: Yeah. It might not be immediately after Christmas. I might do it after New Year's because my parents, they talked about going somewhere with me in between Christmas and New Year's.
THERAPIST: (inaudible at 0:37:09.8)?
CLIENT: Well, they're thinking about going up to Michigan because they have this house up there.
THERAPIST: That would be nice.
CLIENT: Though we weren't really sure.
THERAPIST: (inaudible at 0:37:14.3).
CLIENT: Yeah, because it's going to be freezing, so it's all sort of up in the air, but yeah, I'll figure it out.
THERAPIST: Well, whatever, there's no pressure, this isn't a homework assignment.
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: This is for you want to do it too.
CLIENT: Okay.
THERAPIST: Okay?
CLIENT: All right. [0:37:28.0]
THERAPIST: So I will see you next week then.
CLIENT: Okay.
THERAPIST: All right?
CLIENT: Same time?
THERAPIST: All right, same time.
CLIENT: All right.
THERAPIST: Great job, George.
CLIENT: Thanks so much.
THERAPIST: And I'm glad — I guess we'll hear how the paper went.
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: It sounds like...
CLIENT: Who knows how soon that I'll be (inaudible at 0:37:36.5).
THERAPIST: (inaudible at 0:37:40.3) that's an improvement to the past.
CLIENT: I know, because in the past I just would have not done it.
THERAPIST: Where were you on the day, like at the time — on the 21st — where were you on the paper when it was actually due?
CLIENT: When it was actually...
THERAPIST: Could you have handed it in or was there a paper at that point?
CLIENT: There was a paper at that point, but it wasn't really — I could have handed it in, but it would have been a really bad grade if I'd handed it in right then, and that's the only reason I didn't.
THERAPIST: All right, so it's sounds like you made the right choice and you knew the guy, but...
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: Next time you'll have a better plan of action. [0:38:09.7]
CLIENT: Yeah, next time I can actually apply a strategy (inaudible at 0:38:11.7).
THERAPIST: Okay.
END TRANSCRIPT
