*TEXT-PV010596  21 December 19713930
______________________________________________________________________________
PATIENT:  (2-minute silence, Sniff) Hmm, I'm feeling sort of nervous right now, and I think I was all day today and, I don't know, I kept feeling while I was at home this morning that I wanted to keep finishing things.  And I was in the middle of making some Christmas cookies, and some of which I want to use as tree ornaments, so that it was taking a long time.  And I'm no—, nowhere near finished.  And that made me very, feel very nervous that it was all going so slowly.  And while I'm here I, I don't know, I just feel as if I am going right from one thought to another, as if again, to finish all the thoughts as fast as possible. 
And the first thing I was thinking was, that this morning the girl I'd told uhm, that I came here, called me to ask me for the number, because when I told her I was coming down here on Wednesday, she'd said something about when she does social work, uh, there was somebody that needed something further than what they could do.  And she had thought there was something, someplace down here that could do whatever the boy needed.  And uh, so she wondered if where I went was such a place.  I didn't know, but I said I could give her the number.  And then I'd forgotten and she forgot when I left, so she called me this morning for the number.  (Sniff)
And I, I was thinking of that I guess when I came in, and I didn't see FEN at the desk, because then I was wondering whether she got anybody who could help her.  And then I just, well then I started thinking about uhm, it was something I'd been (Sigh) well, I'd been trying to call a place in PTT during the morning, and then finally I decided to call a store in PWS over an order I'd gotten from SRB.  And some of the things either have to be exchanged or returned. 
And, I, I don't know, first I was trying to get the store in PTT.  Because if I could do it right here in the city, I'd prefer to.  But we'll be going out to MSCZ's parents on Friday, so I thought after a while, well we could stop by at PWS.  And I didn't check with MSCZ, I just, I went ahead and called and I made the arrangements.  And well, I also made a choice on something I wanted to exchange, but I hadn't intended to make the choice right on the phone.  I hadn't thought I'd have to.  Uh, so I suppose I'm feeling sort of nervous about that, too.  I'm not sure I made the choice — it was a choice I'd begun to consider, but I hadn't decided definitely until the woman on the phone said she had to know right then.  And — (Clears throat, Sniff, 2-minute silence)
Uh, I don't recall anything about Friday, but I keep thinking of, that somehow there's something similar between my feeling today that I want to rush and finish a lot of different things and finish them fast, to, uh, the feeling I had on Friday.  Well, I remember thinking about the week and (Sniff) feeling there was something, I guess, that I was keeping from leaking out.  And it's almost like now, today, it's, the more frantic my activity, the less apt I am to get at something, I guess.  (2-minute silence)
And I suppose it's the same kind of thing that I started thinking about (Sniff) how, uhm, yesterday we were visiting the CFG's and FHA, their little girl who's about 4 months older than FSO, had apparently been constipated all week.  So that yesterday, well she was in bed when we got there, and FRA said something about, she's not feeling so well, and so I, I don't know, she was sort of implying that it wouldn't be so good to have her around today.  And uhm, then when she did get up, there were several times where she really was screaming, because she was just in great discomfort.  And uhm, it got bad enough, so I, I don't know why FRA hadn't one anything before.  So anyway, uhm, she got in touch with the doctor, and they got some suppositories and even s—, whatever they needed for an enema. 
And then she had a very small bowel movement, so they didn't do anything.  But when FRA was changing her, I was having to change FSO right at that time, so I was in the room.  And sh—, FRA made some comment about how FHA's bottom looked.  And I was just thinking — well, the light was not very good, so I couldn't really see — but it's, it looked to me the way FSO's sometimes will look.  And what I was I think, mainly thinking of aside from that incident, was just how FHA's probably a little bit taller, but she's much thinner than FSO.  And I don't know, I just, I think yesterday in seeing the two of them, got the feeling that FSO was just way too heavy.  (3-minute silence)
Well, I'm back thinking about the SRB order, because uhm, (Sniff) one of the things, well, 1 thing on the order, my original order, they put, uh, uhm, reorder at a certain date, which I guess was the 18th.  I could order it again after that.  And so I asked the woman over the phone about it today, and she said, "Alright, what is it?"  And, "I'll order that for you now, too."  And uh, I had been thinking again, I hadn't been prepared to make the order today, because I'd been thinking there was another thing that was in, it was the Christmas toy catalogue that I had decided I wanted to order.  And I was—, I didn't have the information on the other one with me.  And I don't know.  Well, now I'm just thinking both that I didn't get the other order in, which I can always do by mail, and that the one that we wanted for Christmas for one of MSCZ's nephews, which I now have to reorder, obviously won't get here in time for Christmas.  (6-minute silence)
I don't know, uh, then I was just thinking of several different things.  I was thinking of uhm, I guess, from the SRB order to FNA's and Z____'s coming out on Saturday.  And she had on something that I knew she'd gotten from SRB during the summer, so I guess that's why I'm thinking of it.  But then, also I know I'm not thinking of (Sigh) I don't know, sort of the, well the reaction I had on Saturday, when they were there, which, I mean I remember what it was, but I, I feel very uninvolved in it now, of s—, of uhm, I don't know, u—, i—, at some point we were talking about some things that (Sniff) shows we have fairly similar ideas and yet still I have the feeling that there really isn't that much communication between the four of us.  Or uhm, real interest in each other, or something, I don't know, but I, I, I — alienation is too strong a word for it — but whatever it is, uhm, I was feeling this more strongly on Saturday, in any case. 
And, and then I went to thinking about speaking to the woman at ACC, because I let her know on Saturday that I didn't want to take the job right now.  And uh, she was very nice about it and then said that I should come to her anytime that I did decide to go back, and that e—, that made me feel, I don't know, sort of more — almost as if I really want to go back.  And yet I hadn't been feeling that before I was offered this.  And so then I think I began to figure, well when, if we have another child, will we be having another child?  Because it didn't seem likely I could go back between FSO and a second child.  And I don't know, I just, I don't know what I want to do about that yet. 
And, and then I guess I went from that, thinking about somebody that had a baby right at t—, right around the time FRA and I did, that FRA knows.  I've met her, but she's really a friend of FRA's who's pregnant now.  And FRA was saying, I can't imagine starting again so soon.  And that is my feeling, too.  (Sniff, Pause)
And then I b—, I don't know what I was thinking, unless it w—, after I was thinking of this one girl who's pregnant again, I was just thinking of the names of the ch—, various children that friends of FRA's had.  Because it just happened that practically everybody FRA knew was pregnant, at least ones we've met or heard of.  Uhm, wer—, either, were expecting a baby right around the time they had theirs.  And so FRA now has all these playmates for FHA.  And she sees one or two of them quite often.  And, uh, so I began thinking of the different names.  They're all girls.  And I guess I was thinking, well, FRA's child is FHA, and then the girl who's pregnant again has a child, FJH, which are both simple names.  And then there's a girl, FWC, and then I was thinking there's another little girl, a little bit younger than FSO, who's FMS.  And, uh, and then I was thinking of FSO, and just sort of, some are simple names and some aren't so simple.  I, I'm sure that's not really what I was thinking of all this for, but it's what I'm aware of thinking.
And, and then I began recalling that yesterday, MSCZ was telling FRA and MNO about uhm, the DBJs, and the death of their little girl, FMS.  And I don't know, I think I, I, I didn't think this at the time, but now — because something happened when he was telling — I wasn't there and I came back and heard him use the word "Jewish", and I really knew what he was saying, and yet I refused to admit to, even to myself at the time, I knew.  So I did something which was kind of silly.  Uh, because I, I knew in a flash he was talking about the DBJs and he'd been telling about (Stutters) FMS's death.  And I, I suppose this is his way of handling the feelings he's had about it.  And I don't know wh_ whether I was mad because, I don't know, it seemed almost as if everybody was indulging in feelings that, I don't know, feeling very sad over it.  But yet it seemed talking about it in that way, that somehow, it was wrong.  I, I'm just not sure. 
But anyway, when I (Sniff) heard him use the word "Jewish", which I knew he was using it in terms of uhm, the fact that this disease that FMS had had, was one that mostly both sides of, both parents had to have some gene that was, I don't know, carried this, what is generally thought of as Mid-Eastern disease.  And neither MFDZ or FDB is Jewish or has as, as far as I know, any Jewish ancestry.  And so this is why it took them a long time to diagnose what FMS had. 
But instead of, I don't know, sort of consciously knowing this last night, when I came back to the conversation having heard him s—, use the word "Jewish", I said, "Who's Jewish?"  And I, and I really knew, and MSCZ said, "I'm talking about the DBJs."  And I said "Well, who's Jewish?" And he said, "I'm (Laughs) talking about the DBJs," because he, I guess, assumed all he had to do was say that, and I'd put it all together, which obviously I could have.  And so then I said something like, "MFDZ's Jewish?", or "FDB's Jewish?", I don't, I don't remember if I used both their names, or just one.  But, I mean I was just clearly being obstinate about something, and I don't right now understand my reaction.  Except now I'm aware of having some kind of an angry feeling. 
ANALYST: Well, you mentioned, you know, some of your feelings about uh, Jewishness or Jews awhile back, and you haven't mentioned it since.  Is this connected with any of that?
PATIENT: (Sigh) Well, when I was just saying it now, something that hadn't occurred to me before, and it's so obvious, I don't know why not.  Or it probably did, but I just wasn't again, admitting it.  Uh, it's almost as if my feeling, well, I mean, I thought of the girl here, whose daughter's FMS and whom I've been thinking of as Jewish.  And it's almost as if I guess I was feeling it, or anyway, this idea occurs to me, that this subject is mine, not something to bring up in public, or not something for MSCZ to talk about.  Or, I don't know, in some way that I didn't want him talking about it. 
And, and then I just think, I go back to thinking the fact I'd been thinking of all the different children that uhm, were born right around the time that FHA was.  And I'm not sure of one of the families, but I think, I think they are, too.  And I know the other two are Jewish.  And one of th—, FRA is often talking about how these other people are bringing up their children.  Because apparently they get together a lot and talk about how they are as mothers.  And they seem to be very self-examining.  And I was thinking, actually I was thinking this particular aspect of it this morning, that it was almost, I mean, I enjoy it occasionally, and FRA is one of the few people I really do it with, but I would not want to do it day in, out, of sitting and talking about how I am as a mother.  And, and I don't know, just examining myself like that.  Uh, which it sounds like they do a lot. 
But, but then also, some of the things that FRA was saying, that they, that they're proud of the way they bring their children up.  Uhm, MSCZ I, I think actually said it, but I was thinking this, that a lot of those things were things that seemed to us, or to him, because he was, we hadn't discussed it ahead of time, uhm, part of the way Jewish people look at bringing up children.  Of uhm, the kind of attention they give them and the kind of things they teach them.  And uh, I don't know, FRA seems to be very much feeling she's not doing the right thing if she doesn't do as these friends of hers do. 
And I suppose when I hear her talk about them, then sometimes I wonder if I'm doing enough.  But yet, my inclination is to be quite different.  And I'm not sure if all this is connected with something else, I don't know.  (Sniff)
ANALYST: Eh, the first thing you thought of was uhm, the girl here and uh, FMS, and your thinking of her as Jewish.  And you had the idea that maybe you thought MSCZ shouldn't be talking about anything hinting at that.  Why not?
PATIENT: (Sigh, Pause)  Well, this seems very far-fetched, but it does come to my mind, and I can see why it would make me angry, if, if it's what was happening.  That, because I associate you with this girl, then if I guess, I'm thinking of her as being Jewish, then I think of you as being Jewish. And then that becomes a barrier between you and me f_ from my point. 
ANALYST: In what ways?
PATIENT: (Pause, Sniff, Swallow, Pause) Well, I don't know, if i—, i_i_It — when I was thinking that, I didn't have it in words, and when I try to I, I'm not sure, but (Sigh) I mean, it seems like I concentrate on 2 things.  One is that you couldn't be my father if you're Jewish.  And then I was thinking, well maybe it's that I'm feeling that I couldn't make love with you if I'm — if you're Jewish.  And yet, then it, that started me thinking on something that well, uhm, it's the one person that I'm not bothered over my feelings about, is MSCZ's roommate, the one who's starting in psychiatry now, and who's as Jewish as anybody I've ever met, can be.  And is happy about it, which is nice, and uhm, I don't know, sometimes I'm not, I don't know whether I'm finding him really sexually exciting or attractive or whatever, or just what it is.  But there's some, there's some feeling of response in me to him that, I think if I had it toward any other man I'd feel very upset.  And so I don't know if it would be that I feel he's safe because he's Jewish, or what. 
Or, uhm, because I think I — I haven't done it recently, because I haven't felt this way so much.  It was more when I first became aware of these feelings, that he was the only one that I'd really sort of allow myself to have fantasies about making love with him, and not uhm,feel terribly guilty, or that I couldn't admit I was having them, or anything.  And, uh I don't know, i—, I guess it's af—, not, I'm not so afraid of what might happen, a_a_ and again, I don't know whether it's because then I feel he's safe, or what?  (Pause)
ANALYST: But what does, what's the thing, what's your feeling or idea about, why is he more safe because he's Jewish?
PATIENT: Well I feel as if I'm sort of passing off responsibility for, for this feeling or ide—, whatever the idea is I have.  But yet, all I can think of is little things that I've heard over the years from my parents, that are very strongly pointing to Jewish people are not one of us.  They're outside of whatever we are.  And I think of in particular, one time when I was uhm, seeing a lot of a friend from college that I'd always liked. 
And uhm, well, I, I can't remember, I guess she, I was dating a number of people that she knew, and she's Jewish, and probably some of these people were and some weren't, I know one in particular I can think of, wasn't.  But uhm, my mother at one point said something to me, and I don't even remember her words, now.  But the message I got was, that FHU is Jewish, and you're at the age where you're going to be looking, consciously or not, for a husband, and if you're always with FHU and dating people that she knows, then you might end up choosing a Jewish person for a husband, which wouldn't be, well I guess, acceptable.  I guess that would be the word that I felt her message was.
And then, It also makes me think that uh, when I was dating MSCZ's roommate, and I, ha—, at that time had no idea of ever dating MSCZ, I picked up enough little things when we would just be talking, that I think I knew what — that he was a Protestant, anyway.  I didn't know probably what exactly denomination.  But, uh, then when we began to date and we were both feeling quite serious about each other, I didn't feel I could bring up the subject of religion, and I had this horrible feeling, what if he's Jewish? 
And I don't know whether I started wondering that because at one point, my parents asked me if he were.  And I think they asked me before I'd actually started dating him.  But there was a period where I wasn't dating his roommate so much, and I was seeing a lot of MSCZ in sort of casual ways.  And uh, there were a number of occasions when both of them came up to PTN.  So my parents met him before he and I were specifically dating each other.  And uh, I think it was during that time that I think my mother asked me if he was.  But, and I think I answered "no", without any question. 
But then when we began dating, I had this question and it was, it really bothered me very much.  It was as if somehow — and I suppose I would have felt this way about WRFs, except I don't really recall ever dating any WRFs in any more than a very casual way, so it never really came up.  Uh, and maybe it wouldn't have, so much.  I'm just not sure.  I, I do know the thought did occur to me when I was at FMS's funeral of what was it like for FDB, because she's Protestant and MFDZ's WRF.  (Sniff, Pause)
I don't know, I just, I, I keep thinking about it and thinking that I seem to have 2 very opposite ideas about it, because I don't know, it seems like it's coming to me out of nowhere, the hearing that Jewish people aren't like us, they're outside of us, they're inferior, I suppose, is really the point.  And uh, and then my thinking of people I've known, and liked and it isn't true, from my experience, and yet still I seem to have, have this feeling.  Well, at l—, well, I think of the conversation I had with MEIR.  Well, we were all, there were four of us, having it. 
But this particular aspect of it, it was between MEIR and me.  And it seems like what was going on between MEIR and me, is what I feel is going on in me, over this feeling I have about Jewishness.  And uh, he was saying something about Germans, and uh, how he j—, he's a — I've forgotten the word exactly he used, whether it was a German phobe, or just what exactly — but anyway, he does not like Germans, and he was just lumping everything together.  And he gave some very poor examples on why he feels he's justified in not liking them and not trusting them.
And I got very mad, because uhm, (Sniff) well, I've met a number of Germans from well, in one case, from the work camp that I was in one summer.  And then I think that was mainly it, because there were quite a few Germans in the work camp, and probably other places too.  But uh, the majority of the Germans I've met are just so totally different from anything he was saying.  And he was just being so insensitive to possible differences, in fact the Germans I had all met, were making jokes about what people feel the nation characteristics of Germans are, that MEIR was saying is so true.  And uh, they were joking about it in a way that they don't like that image, but that there are Germans who fit the image.  And uh, I don't know, so anyway, I was feeling that he was just so totally wrong in the way — and, and I d—, just so blind and everything.  I just got very mad. 
ANALYST: Well, our time's up.
