TRANSCRIPT OF AUDIO FILE:
___________________________________________________________________________________
BEGIN TRANSCRIPT:
COUNSELOR: Interview 8, interview 8. January 13th, January 13th. Austin Counselor Psych 2. Track 2. Client 1927-1112. Interview 8.
PATIENT: Can you refresh me and tell me where we ended up last week?
COUNSELOR: The thing we were talking about last week?
PATIENT: Yeah.
COUNSELOR: I know we talked a lot last week. I don't know if it was the thing we ended up with, but we talked a lot about like how you couldn't really relate to your wife in a close, meaningful way, kind of relationship you want. Oh, and you talked about, I don't know if it was the last thing, but about fear of losing her.
You look like you're feeling down.
PATIENT: Well, I don't know if I'm feeling down. I've been very ambivalent about different things. So I guess I'm feeling agitated. Kind of a - like my equilibrium is upset.
COUNSELOR: You mean you feel like you're edgy?
PATIENT: Yeah.
COUNSELOR: Is it there's - is it like - is it a feeling of like having some sort of anxiety because things don't seem exactly in place? 0:02:22.1
PATIENT: Yeah, but it's like anxiety because things - yeah, because things aren't the way I want them to be, I guess.
COUNSELOR: What's the matter? I mean, what's it about?
PATIENT: (Chuckles) Well, I don't know, it's like, you know, I was talking to a girl sometime earlier, I guess Monday, and she said I'd like to see you and we've got to get together. And this was the girl that I'd had the affair with. And -
COUNSELOR: Wait, you didn't tell me about that. When was this?
PATIENT: Yeah, I told you - when was it?
COUNSELOR: You told me about having an affair?
PATIENT: Yeah, I told you that the first - I think the very first time we ever met.
COUNSELOR: I remember talking about thinking about having affairs, but anyway, go on.
PATIENT: Okay, well I had had an affair with this girl several years ago. 
And so she called, and it really it upset me, because I went over to meet her but I never ended up meeting her. But it upset me because I even went to meet her. Didn't know exactly why I was going, you know, what my own reasons were. And it just - you know, that upset me. The fact that I was doing something that in a way I really didn't care that much about doing.
COUNSELOR: It sounds like you feel very torn about doing it.
PATIENT: And yet I was doing it.
COUNSELOR: But not doing it for the fear of feeling.
PATIENT: Yeah, with - well, without knowing what it was I was going for, you know, myself. 0:04:27.7
And it was kind of like I felt like well, here I am maybe jeopardizing what I do have, and I'm not really going with any object in mind, you know, with like well is it worth going, you know. So it kind of upset me because, you know, kind of upset my own balance and, you know, my harmony with things. 
COUNSELOR: It sounds like it really disturbed you.
PATIENT: Yeah, it -
COUNSELOR: You know, jarred some kind of equilibrium.
PATIENT: Yeah, because no matter, you know, no matter how I'm living, I can, you know, develop some kind of equilibrium out of it all. And this upset it. 0:05:33.5
COUNSELOR: Why did it upset it?
PATIENT: Hmm?
COUNSELOR: Why did it upset it? Because you kind of sense it was something you wanted to do but weren't sure why, and brought out all the things you're unhappy about in your marriage and not sure what you want to think? Is that -
PATIENT: No, it was more than that though. It was - it was something that I did want to do, and something at the same time I didn't want to do because I felt there was no point in doing it. 
COUNSELOR: Why did you want to do it?
PATIENT: I think just to be with somebody who really - you know, like she wanted to - she said, you know, I want to see you and everything, which was a big builder, you know.
COUNSELOR: It felt good.
PATIENT: Yeah, an ego builder. And I think that's why I -
COUNSELOR: It's nice to be wanted.
PATIENT: And then maybe that's why I felt well, I want to do it because, you know, it's kind of like meeting somebody's need, you know, and I guess I felt I could meet her need. You know, I could go and I could meet with her, and as a result of that then I'm looked to with -
COUNSELOR: You're wanted. 0:06:56.8
PATIENT: Yeah. And so I guess I think maybe that's why I wanted to do it. But I think personally in another way I wasn't that interested in doing it because I guess - I don't know, I just didn't feel that personally involved. That's not really clear, but it was like I didn't have the desire, you know what I mean? I was - well, God, kind of like -
COUNSELOR: Sounds like, you know, how you feel about this is, what's developing, is very confusing to you. I mean, I get a sense why your equilibrium feels upset.
PATIENT: Yeah, see it's kind of like I could go and meet with her, and that would reinforce, I guess, my feeling that I can meet needs or something. And I hadn't thought about that until right now.
COUNSELOR: You can see what you could do to someone, but don't do what you want. Is that what you mean?
PATIENT: Yeah.
COUNSELOR: Afraid to know that?
PATIENT: Hmm?
COUNSELOR: Was there a fear of what that knowledge might do to you?
PATIENT: Maybe, maybe. But I suppose the reason - maybe the reason that I really felt so ambivalent was because I know that when I had the affair with her, it started out because she said, "I want to have an affair with you, period."
And I said, "No because, you know, I don't really want to get involved."
And she said, "Well, we won't get involved. We'll just keep it very physical and not emotional." 
And that sounds nice but things don't work out that way. And so like I felt - 
COUNSELOR: Well, did they work out that way? 0:09:08.7
PATIENT: No. They didn't.
COUNSELOR: What happened?
PATIENT: Well, she got really very attached and, in a sense, started asking me to meet needs, which I couldn't do. And I couldn't meet them simply because I was married and I had other loyalties and other responsibilities and things. So I kind of like extricated myself from that situation, and I felt a real sense of relief that I was able to do that and - because I was very threatened during that period of time. 
So I guess that's why I felt ambivalent here, because I didn't want to get involved in that stuff again, you know, at all. So I guess that's why I really felt ambivalent. You know, there was like - it would have been nice if I could go and - see she really wanted very badly to talk. She's very lonely and depressed. And that would have been fine -
COUNSELOR: This is what she wanted to do?
PATIENT: Yeah. Yes, you know, this week.
But I felt that even to go and meet with her, I have to lie to get the time to go and meet with her, which was like taking a risk, jeopardizing my, you know.
COUNSELOR: It's like you really felt - I mean, I can really see in a way, it's like god damn it, you really felt like you're hurting and suffering for some ego gratification in a way and to know that you're needed and wanted and can do something for someone.
PATIENT: Yeah. 
COUNSELOR: And it would have been nice to have that. But, but I risk throwing too much away. 0:11:08.2
PATIENT: Yeah.
COUNSELOR: I have to weigh that, you know, against what I have. And maybe part of the confusion or upset equilibrium is like it raised all those things, you know. We talked about them before, but it kind of made them feel a little more present because in a way it was a microcosmic kind of decision that you think about every now and then.
PATIENT: Right.
COUNSELOR: Are you kind of now sensing the kind of the uncertainty of that disequilibrium about your marriage?
PATIENT: I'm not sure I understand.
COUNSELOR: I was - you looked troubled like you were processing something, and I was wondering if what you were processing was kind of what that feeling of about equilibrium was like.
PATIENT: Oh, I see. No, what I was thinking was that I did feel, you know, kind of disoriented. But at the same time, I probably even felt it less, you know, it was a less acute feeling than it could have been simply because I knew the girl well and I had already had an affair with her. And it was kind of like I knew what kind of potential she offered for me if I should choose to leave my wife and go with her. I already knew what that potential was. And so it wasn't so hard to even make the decision as it would have been had she been a strange girl, you know, somebody new that was totally unknown.
COUNSELOR: (inaudible at 0:12:50.3)
PATIENT: Yes, yes, it would have been.
COUNSELOR: When you say you knew her potential, does she have any potential for you?
PATIENT: I don't think so, no. No, not for me. That's why I was so happy when, you know, I was able to break things off before.
COUNSELOR: Why doesn't she?
PATIENT: I imagine because she's so screwed up herself, you know, that is she would be too far too threatening to me to -
COUNSELOR: Too much to carry.
PATIENT: Yeah, like see she - for example, she's very sexually promiscuous, which would be a real big threat to me. And - because when - and that's the way, you know, since she meets and acts out a lot of her needs. She just lacks a lot of things that my wife has, you know, a lot of assets that I want and things that I like. 0:14:08.3
COUNSELOR: Which are what?
PATIENT: Well, I think my wife -
COUNSELOR: Is it fidelity? Is that one?
PATIENT: Yeah. My wife is much prettier and much cooler in a - like in a social sense. And I don't know, I guess I could be more proud of my wife as a person and as my wife than I could be of her.
COUNSELOR: You feel like if like when you're around people, it's like you'd much rather feel proud of your wife, like it makes you feel better inside to be with someone like her. People see her.
PATIENT: Yeah, I'd rather be identified with her and her be identified with me than me be identified with this other girl, for example.
COUNSELOR: Something strange that's hitting me about those assets.
PATIENT: Hmm?
COUNSELOR: There's something strange hitting me about those assets. I don't know exactly what. Something about like you'd much rather be - your wife's cooler, or especially the thing about well, the last thing about like I almost had the feeling the last thing was like, you know, my wife's a better showpiece than this girl would be.
PATIENT: Well, it's not a thing of showpiece. It's kind of like I imagine I derive, you know, a lot of my present self-concept just through identification through whom I'm married to. And I guess I would have a better self-concept of myself, a more pleasing, self-fulfilled kind of concept, than I would have if I were married to this other girl. 0:16:30.5
You know, and it's kind of like my wife has attained or developed certain assets that, you know, maybe - you know, they're meaningful for me to either greater or less degrees, but they're still meaningful to me. And she has more of the kind of things that are important to me than the other girl, you know.
Now in some ways the other girl has more things that are important to me than my wife does. But they don't - you know, in the balance my wife wins.
COUNSELOR: Yet you kind of felt something pulling you back. Did something was pulling you there or was it because it feels pretty dissatisfying with your wife?
PATIENT: I'm not sure, it could be even kind of. Yeah, it really could have been something that was pulling me there because when I was leaving to go, I really kind of felt guilty. And - but I also wanted, you know, in a way I didn't want to go, but I had already said I'd go. And that made me feel, you know, like I had made a commitment and I didn't want to let her down. But I felt like I was kind of letting my wife down by going because my wife didn't feel good and I thought I ought to stay home with her. 
And - well not only that, but I thought it was nice being home with her, you know, and I didn't want to give that up. 0:18:44.0
COUNSELOR: You were feeling like some of the nice things - there was something nice there.
PATIENT: Yeah, and I was leaving that.
COUNSELOR: Walking out the door was risking closing the door on those nice things.
PATIENT: Yeah. Because I was leaving a pleasurable experience for one that, you know, I didn't know how pleasurable that would be. And, more important, it was more important to be at home because I was getting pleasure there, you know.
COUNSELOR: Is this kind of why you're feeling very agitated and grumpy, feel upset?
PATIENT: Well, wait, which thing?
COUNSELOR: Because of this experience -
PATIENT: Yes.
COUNSELOR: Kind of made you question some things.
PATIENT: Yeah. 0:19:53.0
COUNSELOR: Yeah, I sense it made alive some kind of doubt in you more strongly at home, you know, more present.
PATIENT: Well -
COUNSELOR: The doubt being about your relationship with your wife.
PATIENT: No, the doubt was about myself, about why I went. Even when I didn't want to go, I went.
See, maybe the best way to explain it is to explain the sequence of events. I talked to the girl on Monday, and then she said well - occasionally, in the past we've talked, and I only talk to her maybe once every three or four months. 
She said, "Well, in the past we've said we were going to get together and talk, and we never really do it. So this time, why don't we make a date, you know, a time."
And I said, "Well, when?" 
And she said "Well, this week."
And we decided because of other commitments that it would have to be last night. I said, "Well, I don't know. Let me talk to you tomorrow and I'll tell you." 
So we had said - I should say we had said definitely it would be Tuesday night. But we didn't know when or where because I didn't know if I'd go to where she lived or she'd meet me someplace or what.
So Tuesday - I was supposed to call her Tuesday morning, and I didn't because I was out and I didn't have an opportunity. So I called yesterday afternoon and she was tied up. So I just left a message saying I can't make it. But then when I went home last night, my wife said well, why don't you go out, you know, and I have a friend that I've been wanting to visit. And she said why don't you go visit them?
I said fine, and it was really kind of like a good opportunity to go see this girl, because I live  - 
COUNSELOR: You mean your wife really suggested that you -
PATIENT: Yeah, and this fellow and this girl live in the same general area. So I said well, yeah, you know, I was thinking that I could go see the girl and still go see the fellow. But my wife would think I was this fellow's house all evening. 0:22:08.0
So I called the girl and she wasn't home, and I just told her roommate that I'd be over. Well, I went over and the girl was gone. She still hadn't come home from work and hadn't talked to her roommate. And so I waited a little while, and then I left and went to my friend's house.
And that was at about 9 o'clock. So I left my friends house at about a little after 12 and I went back to her apartment. And no one answered the door, I guess they were asleep, and so I left and went home.
Well, see after having broken the engagement in the afternoon, then I went ahead and like reinitiated it. Now, why I did that I don't know because after breaking the engagement I felt kind of a sense of relief, you know, that it's best this way because then you avoid -
COUNSELOR: It's less complicated.
PATIENT: Yeah, entanglements and so forth.
COUNSELOR: It sounds like I guess what you're saying is that there was something that you - 
PATIENT: Yeah, see that's -
COUNSELOR: didn't want to break the engagement.
PATIENT: Hmm?
COUNSELOR: That didn't want to break the engagement.
PATIENT: That's right, and that's the ambivalence I'm talking about.
COUNSELOR: Well say more, I mean call your ambivalence. What is it that you were torn about?
PATIENT: Well, I'm not sure see. Well, okay, what I was torn about was why after breaking it and feeling, you know, really relieved that I had done that, that I then went out of my way to call her, had to lie to my wife because, you know, I made her think I was at this friends house all evening. And then even, you know, after I had gone to the girl's apartment and she didn't come home and I went to my friends, and I returned.
COUNSELOR: Yeah, and I mean I really sense like you really did want to see her.
PATIENT: Yeah, see, and then when I knocked on the door - even every time I knocked, I thought well, she's better off knowing -
COUNSELOR: Who's better off - this type of phenomena, I'm just talking metaphorically like -
PATIENT: Yeah, pull back and - no.
COUNSELOR: No, no what I mean is like every time you knock, you also felt a pull to not knock.
PATIENT: I -
COUNSELOR: I mean I sense that kind of expressive quality. 0:24:29.9
PATIENT: Yeah, in a way I was kind of hoping no one answered because I didn't know what I would do if the girl was home. And I knocked I guess twice, you know, two series like and when no one answered, I quickly left the building and got in my car and went home and felt really relieved, again, that, you know, I hadn't seen her.
COUNSELOR: I guess what troubles you is that you're really bothered that in a way you did want to see her.
PATIENT: Mm-hmm.
COUNSELOR: And what troubles you there, is it you don't know why or -
PATIENT: Why what?
COUNSELOR: You wanted to see her, or you don't understand that?
PATIENT: Well, no, see I'm not - I'm not sure. I saw her at Christmas because my wife and I went to a party at her house. And she said, you know, I'd like to see you. And from - I don't know, from just the way she was talking, it was kind of like I'd like to see you to resume our affair, which kind of excited me, you know, and it made me feel very good and, you know, kind of like flattered and all that. But at the same time, it scared me too.
COUNSELOR: It's like it feels flattering and really - I mean I really sense you like that really flattered feeling and being wanted. But what would that mean in terms of your life, it's like you're asking yourself.
PATIENT: Right. 
COUNSELOR: So that's what's pretty scary. Maybe scary's not the right word, but it's like - it's rocking the boat. And it's not like the boat just feels like it's solid and strong to begin with. You know how easy it is to rock it because, you know, it gets rocked inside yourself sometimes, you know, like the marriage is really right for you. 0:26:36.2
PATIENT: I think when I think about it - although what really agitated me - well, we went to a party Saturday night and there were a lot of people there. There were three different girls that I talked to a great deal at the party and they were all married, and I knew the husband of one and the brother of the other two. And the conversations were just, you know, about crap, but I found myself, you know, with all three girls kind of evaluating them and what kind of relationship I might have with them, and if our talk was going to lead to a relationship or, you know, our meeting. 0:29:16.2
And with one, who was an older person - she was, I guess in her early 30s or something. She had kind of initiated everything. She came up and made some flattering remarks to me, and we started dancing. When we weren't dancing, we all were talking, you know. And I really - I don't know, I just kind of sensed in the very beginning when she came up to me that she was on the make. And I know her husband and he was there. And I just really -
COUNSELOR: You sensed it.
PATIENT: Sense it.
COUNSELOR: Picked it up.
PATIENT: So of course I felt - again, I felt very flattered and that it was cool and everything. But then the next day, I - when I got up I was thinking gee, you know, I wonder if I could pull it off and how it would happen, you know, how you would go about doing that. 
And I think that bothered me that, you know, that rather than - well, what happens if like a certain point in time at the party when you're drinking and all that, that's one thing. But then the next day when you mull it over and you evaluate it, when I do it then that's disturbing to me that, you know, the next day I should start really thinking about it when I'm sober, and when the really intense feelings have passed, and yet I'm still kind of thinking it over.
COUNSELOR: It's still there.
PATIENT: And that bothers me, you know.
COUNSELOR: Yeah, I guess it kind of bothers you, it's because from what you're saying it's like in a way, you know, in a way you are really looking. It's like you aren't happy where you - you aren't happy where you are. And you are -
PATIENT: Right.
COUNSELOR: It's like you are dissatisfied.
PATIENT: Yeah, and it's threatening to me because then I'm starting to, you know, starting to act in such a way that is going to be disruptive to the relationship that I have. And - which is frightening to me, you know, as we've talked about before because at least what I have, although it may not be fulfilling, it's certain. It's something I can put my hand on.
COUNSELOR: You're afraid of losing it. 
PATIENT: Yes.
COUNSELOR: Your hand will have nothing in it.
PATIENT: Right. 0:31:46.6
 
COUNSELOR: Again, I really sense like you're really caught in the middle of a real conflict, and the conflict is that you have something that just isn't satisfying and fulfilling, but you're afraid as hell to lose it, to give it up, because that'd mean you have nothing. But yet, it just isn't satisfying and you keep looking, in a way, maybe not overtly, you know. 
But it's like you are dissatisfied and you do look, but not in a wholehearted way. It's like you're really caught in the middle between that dissatisfaction with the relationship, take a few steps to look, but get afraid of - there could be nothing and you lose it. 0:32:48.3
PATIENT: I think it's the same kind of thing gets tied up you know when I work too, you know, because I work a great deal with high school girls and with mothers. And the same kind of thing - the same kind of feelings are evoked in me because I find like a lot of - both the girls and the women that I work with are very seductive. And you know, simply by the fact that I am their worker, I often develop a very close relationship with them. And that gets really kind of threatening because, you know, it's kind of like once I do know them, then they kind of become I don't know, kind of like they start meeting my needs too, maybe consciously.
COUNSELOR: Yeah, what you're saying is, if I understand it, is like they kind of meet ego gratification needs, you know, being wanted, you know, being wanted in this other way too. Which I guess you don't get a lot (inaudible at 0:35:12.0).
PATIENT: Yeah. I think maybe you know when I think - the way I usually handle that, see, it's funny when I think about intellectualizing and this has become the easiest way of handling that. Like when I got to a home and when I meet a woman that's seductive, occasionally I'm kind of like forearmed with the knowledge because someone from the school will warn me that this woman has a reputation, or this or that. Or that this girl that I'm going to be work with does. And then I kind of know about little safeguards, you know. With a girl, I see her only in the school. With a woman, maybe I'll call when I know her family will be home or her children or something.
But generally, I guess, when I meet somebody like a girl who's a client or a woman and they're seductive, then immediately I start intellectualizing to kind of turn off the stimuli or to handle it anyway.
COUNSELOR: Say more about that, because I'm not sure - 
PATIENT: Well it's kind of like, you know - 
COUNSELOR: You mean you - you know what it does to you, but you're going to turn it off?
PATIENT: Yeah, because I feel like I would be so easily prone to become seduced because it would meet a need that my wife isn't meeting, and that. So then of course it becomes increasingly threatening to me. 0:37:02.3
COUNSELOR: Yeah, it's like you really need it bad and really want it bad, you know, it can happen so easily because you really want it bad, but you got to kind of take steps to prevent it.
PATIENT: Yeah.
COUNSELOR: You know, I really get the sense because you talk about this just like the need to be wanted, needed, wanted sexually, it's like - it's just not feeling satisfied in your marriage.
PATIENT: I think it's even - you know, it's not just the need but - well, yeah, it's the need. It's the manifestation of need, to really be - you know, to really know, to be told, not just a sense but to have something that - you know, like if you sense well that can be fantasy as well as reality, but then when people are more open about it, then you can no longer deny it really, you know. And of course then you can't intellectualize it either.
COUNSELOR: What are you saying? It's like you want to be able to have that said concretely but don't have it with your wife. Is that what you're saying? Can you really just focus on my -
PATIENT: I'm not - you know, I'm not sure.
COUNSELOR: Because I guess what I was sensing, like you really do - you do want to concretely know and feel that good feeling that comes from knowing (inaudible) in the world that you are wanted.
PATIENT: Yeah.
COUNSELOR: You don't get that.
PATIENT: Yeah. I guess I am.
COUNSELOR: You want it badly.
PATIENT: Yeah, I think that's true. And in thinking about it, I guess it's kind of like I want to know that from my wife, and at the same time I don't want to know that from other people where it might be threatening. Do you know what I mean? Like from a client, for example. 0:40:49.2
COUNSELOR: Very much what you're saying is -
PATIENT: Because then I don't know what I would do, you know, simply because -
COUNSELOR: Because you'd have it there but not from your wife.
PATIENT: Yes, right.
COUNSELOR: You know, what would that do to your relationship? That sounds very well what you mean. It's like - and that's why you want it from a client, because you're not getting it from your wife. But you want it very much from her but she's not giving it to you. She's not satisfying you that way. I mean, it's again the same thing of being caught in the middle of that conflict. You're dissatisfied with your wife and not being fulfilled, it's not fulfilling this need, but wanting to, but not letting yourself really take it because what would that do to your wife? You know, like you have with your wife. Well then your relationship with your wife would be even more fulfilling.
PATIENT: Right. 0:41:51.0
COUNSELOR: How does it feel to you that you don't have that from your wife?
PATIENT: How does it feel? 
Kind of a combination of feelings - anger, kind of depression. You know, I get sad because I feel, you know, that I have one life and it's not, you know, fulfilling. 
COUNSELOR: You really want it very deeply, you know. You want it in your wife. It is your only wife and I sense a sadness that you don't have it.
PATIENT: See, it's kind of funny too. I was - you know, it was kind of like we're in talks now, you know, and I'm talking as if I'll - my wife doesn't give it to me. She doesn't give me the feeling of satisfaction or being wanted. And at the same time, I'm not, you know, I'm not really sure if it's my wife, which is why I came in to begin with because - and we've talked about that. 0:43:44.2
COUNSELOR: Yes, I know, it's - 
PATIENT: You know, because it's kind of like in a way I turn it off. I don't - you know, I block out the feelings. And I was just thinking about my father, because he has always been so passive and in terms of his relationship with my mother, he's always been so very passive. And I've always felt that his life has a husband and as a man was very unfulfilled. And it always kind of angered me that he would accept that. And I always felt sorry for him because he did accept it, and I felt that, you know, he was unhappy with it. And yet I find myself in the same kind of position now, you know. 0:44:45.2
And the real bitch is, you know, I just don't understand why for sure.
COUNSELOR: You know, you hate that you really feel sorry for your father and didn't want that for yourself, but there it is.
You don't have that, you know, active, involved, feeling relationship. It's all pushed away. They're all suppressed, all these feelings.
PATIENT: I think another reason that at this point in time I'm feeling more threatened, you know, and feeling kind of like more afraid that, you know, I would take a chance and dissolve our marriage or something is because within the past year or so, it's like when - I don't know, it's like I always under evaluated myself as a man. I kind of like I never felt I was that attractive to girls. I never really had a confident kind of feeling about myself. 
And then in the past year or so, I find that, you know, like socially or kind of like girls will be very flirtatious, for example, which is something I never felt before that they were flirting with me. And it's - I guess it's done something to bolster my confidence and my ego, and kind of makes me feel that, you know, I sold short, that kind of like when I got married, I got married with the sense that I was a certain kind of a person and could only be that kind of person. 0:50:15.9
And now I guess I have a sense that I could be a different kind of person, which I guess makes me kind of angry at my wife and at myself.
COUNSELOR: Angry at having gotten married and angry at her?
PATIENT: Yeah.
COUNSELOR: She's your wife who you did marry. It's like you're marrying sort of cutoff yourself from realizing these things and from trying them out with other people.
PATIENT: From realizing the potential.
COUNSELOR: I'm going to remember you said about when you married your wife (inaudible at 0:51:18.8) some time after this rejection so you feel like, because part of it in there is kind of like maybe you felt unsure of yourself, you know, as a man, you can be attractive to women. Better get married while I can.
PATIENT: Yeah, well, yeah kind of like better - not like when I can but, you know, kind of like this is the best thing -
COUNSELOR: This is the best I can do.
PATIENT: - that I can do, right.
COUNSELOR: This is the best I can get if it - the way I am.
PATIENT: Right.
COUNSELOR: May not be great but, you know, it's something. And now you're saying that isn't enough, maybe I sold myself short too quickly.
PATIENT: Yeah. 0:52:15.2
Yeah, I think one of the things that really makes me angry today, you know, not specifically today but at the present is that I guess feeling now that, you know, now that I have a sense that I had more potential than I thought and have more like worth. That when, you know, it's kind of like since we got married, I have undergone a lot of changes and in the sense that I'm a different person than I was before due to growth and maturation. 
And I guess I feel that my wife kind of hasn't kept up with me or even, you know, gone on her own in that kind of way. And she kind of refuses to, you know. It's kind of like she kind of like says, "Take me like I am." You know, "Just take me like I am. Don't push me." 
It's kind of like if I say, you know, do this or do that, it's a threat to her. And so then she becomes very passive-aggressive about it.
COUNSELOR: She really wants to stay in her corner -
PATIENT: Yeah, but I guess I feel that she doesn't sometimes - just to get at me, you know, because it's kind of done in a very hostile way. 0:54:08.1
COUNSELOR: Give you the satisfaction.
PATIENT: Right, and then of course the things escalate in their importance, and they become - little things become big issues along which we fight or something.
COUNSELOR: They become - maybe the little things become just the focal points for being satisfactions.
PATIENT: Yeah, right.
COUNSELOR: I really kind of sense you're saying, well, it is something, like it was something when I got married, but is it the best something I can have? I mean maybe it's not the best something I want, it's not as just, you know, being as fulfilling as what I want and maybe I could do better. Maybe I could find something more satisfying, still unsure about that, too.
PATIENT: I do feel, you know, I often feel that way. And it's the same time that I often feel that I'm being so mercenary too, because it seems like, gee, it sounds like - you know, it's kind of like I'm saying well, everything has to be done or everything has to be in such a way to make me happy. You know, it's kind of a very -
COUNSELOR: You feel like you're being selfish about it?
PATIENT: Yeah, it's very egoistic like I don't have to change to make other people happy. They have to change to make me happy. 0:56:48.1
COUNSELOR: So kind of feel like when you evaluate your relationship, you do so in a selfish way or something. What have I got? What am I getting?
PATIENT: You know, I.
COUNSELOR: [Get a sense of that assurance] (ph at 1:01:19.8) about what you want.
PATIENT: Yeah.
COUNSELOR: Because it kind of seems kind of depressing when you think about the immensity of the decision anyway -
PATIENT: Which decision? You mean like whether to continue my measure or terminate it? Oh yeah.
COUNSELOR: And it's like the stakes seem so high.
PATIENT: Yeah, well, it's because it's so final. You know, if I decide to terminate, then it's just such a final thing.
COUNSELOR: It's really scary.
PATIENT: And it's kind of like betting my life's - well, we'll say betting everything I'll ever earn -
COUNSELOR: Your happiness into something you don't -
PATIENT: Into the unknown.
COUNSELOR: It's like giving up something, or risking giving up something known, on the - which, you know, isn't satisfying, kind of putting that on the table and risking losing it all. (inaudible at 1:02:25.6).
Time's up.
END TRANSCRIPT
