Transcript of Audio File:
______________________________________________________________________________
BEGIN TRANSCRIPT:
THERAPIST: All right.
CLIENT: All righty, how are you?
THERAPIST: I'm okay. Sorry to keep you waiting.
CLIENT: I'm sorry?
THERAPIST: Sorry to keep you waiting?
CLIENT: Oh no, I didn't mean that. I ran into a colleague at the coffee shop this morning and it shook me up a lot, so. He's really an incredibly nice person. He was in his fourth year when I was in my first year and so he's moving towards finishing although he has painkillers and [inaudible at 00:00:36] so it would probably be another several years. That and he's in [inaudible] so if he's going to get hired he needs to have at least one book, maybe two. So...
THERAPIST: I see.
CLIENT: Yes, it's a tough field. And it would probably be overseas. I don't know. I don't like thinking about work. I try not to think about it because I just feel so awful. So I told him that I was taking a year off and he said okay well that sounds like a good thing. It was very - he just kind of took it in stride in a really nice way, like I just really like this person and he's been very kind to me. And he said was this kind of a step towards transitioning out of PT Program? I said I don't know, we'll see at the end of the year whether I'm desperate to get back into it or so relieved that I'm not there any more. I mean, talking to people at all right now is hard and I don't know. I just feel bad that I'm not there and I'm not working. I feel so bad. [00:02:37]
So there was a reception after 6:00 service, the Sunday service on Sunday. It's to teach the Pentecost, which is the anniversary of the beginning of the church and very interesting. I don't know. It talks a lot about the Holy Spirit; it's about the Holy Spirit and [inaudible at 00:03:06] are pretty uptight. And nobody really knows what to do with Pentecost and the other school church because I don't know are people going to start speaking in tongues? Nothing would terrify us more. But so there's a - the church that I go to had a very nice Father (ph); at the birthday of the church we celebrate everybody's birthday so everybody brings birthday cake and we bring it, and then we get to know each other and there's a reception.
THERAPIST: I see. That sounds kind of sunny.
CLIENT: I'm sorry?
THERAPIST: That sounds kind of sunny.
CLIENT: That's sunny?
THERAPIST: Sunny? Yes, like happy.
CLIENT: Yes, yes, it's really, I think it's a really good idea and usually I'm all about cake and any kind of baking is yes, I will go there. So I signed up to make a cake a month ago and basically making the cake and bringing it to church and talking to people that I don't know very well took up my entire weekend. That was all - took up the mental energy for my entire weekend. And I did it. The frosting didn't really work out so it looks really ugly but it tasted really good. It was a good cake. [00:04:25]
And I had a half hour conversation with James on the phone as to whether - it was an egg white, a cooked egg white frosting, a meringue, so and I accidentally took it off the double boiler too soon so it didn't get hot as it was nearly done. So I had a very long conversation with James as to whether 140 degrees Fahrenheit was hot enough that I could safely bring the cake to church and not give everybody food poisoning. Eventually decided that there was a quarter of a percent chance that I would make everybody sick and I wasn't going to risk it. And, yes, I went and I talked to people and met the people and got to know some people a little better. Then came home and had a drink. So I guess that was good. I don't know. I'm glad I did it.
THERAPIST: Well that's good.
CLIENT: If I had known that I would really, really, really not want to do it when the time came I wouldn't have signed up for it. But I didn't know that. I had already told them I would do it, so. Yes it's been a really hard week. But I went hiking yesterday. Apparently the MPTA was after the reservation, so it's two hours each way for four-hour trip. It's great; it was really good. There's no way I feel safer than when I'm alone in the woods. [00:06:20]
THERAPIST: Do you know what made the last week tough? I mean, I'm aware that is overall the trend, but my impression is that from how you're describing it I got the impression like worse then recently?
CLIENT: Yes, I mean less, fewer breaks. I'm getting anxious about finances and not having a job and more than not earning money, just not having anything that I have to do. But at the same time the very, very few things that I do have to do are incredibly difficult for me to do. And so I feel like I'm not, even if I got a job I'm not sure I would be capable of doing it. Although realistically I would pony up and it would be fine. Yes, I just, I've been trying not to think about the things that worry me but that I can't do anything about. So there's this whole kind of spectrum of places I can't go in my head and it's been hard, yes. [00:08:11]
THERAPIST: We had a bit longer sort of a gap than usual. Did that contribute?
CLIENT: I think so, yes. It was hard. My roommate has a friend staying with her which often makes things hard. Even the friend is a very dear person and she is also very shy and so it's not - it's easier to tell myself that we are awkward because of her as well as because of me because it's kind of the truth. And I actually talked with her yesterday and just said look I'm sorry I've been so out of the picture when you've been here. I'm really glad you're here it's just hard for me to interact with people or something. And she was very good about it. And I felt better having said that. I don't know. I just, I feel like it's not, there are fewer things in my life that I can - I don't know whether it's a case of that whether this is situational or whether this is coming from me, but I feel like there's very little that it doesn't occur to me to question why is this worth doing, just from everything I do all day.
THERAPIST: Things feel lifeless. [00:10:05]
CLIENT: Yes, I kind of - a lot of days I kind of lie in bed for an hour or so before I can get out of bed, like why should I get out of bed? I don't know. And then eventually I get bored and I'm like maybe I'll sew something and then I get out of bed and that's fine. And then I usually have a couple free hours where I just kind of do things and do useful things and have breakfast sometimes by the lake. Even like eating - yes, I haven't been applying for jobs this week. I haven't done it. I just get really scared when I think about it and it's easy not to do it and so I don't do it. I just - and a lot of the time it's been kind of feeling that kind of numb emptiness as though something important is happening somewhere else in my mind that I'm not really privy to and so I'm just kind of - and I don't really want to go there so I just kind of hang out. And then there are periods where I feel really, really horrible. [00:12:06]
One conversation I had with James I kind of kept saying it just keeps weighing on me and it's hard for me to talk, that sort of thing. I'm sorry, it's hard for me to talk to you or to have a conversation. It just doesn't want to go. He says well you just keep saying it and you never tell me what that it is. And so I just kind of described that to him a little bit. I'm just hating myself so much and being so angry at myself and wishing that I were dead and feeling ashamed of wanting to kill myself and hurt myself and trying to handle that but sometimes it's hope.
THERAPIST: That.
CLIENT: That, yes. But I think that was helpful for him for any of it just to have a sense of what I'm actually feeling because it's really hard for me to, it's really, really hard for me to have conversations where I let people know that anything's wrong. So that's as far as I've gotten is saying and I've got this tone of voice, yes I'm really not okay. Things are hard; I'm having a hard time in pretty non-specific terms. And I had lunch with a friend. And it was nice but it was also one of those interactions that left me a lot lonelier than before because at the beginning the conversation she said well how are you and I said well I'm having a really rough time. Things aren't very good; I'm really struggling. And she said oh I'm really sorry. And the rest of the conversation was about her. And I'm talking it over with James he said what do you know? He said, and I think that he's onto something, that when I tell people I'm having a hard time I say it in a tone of voice that indicates that I don't want to talk about it any more. Which isn't actually - which is sort of true and sort of not true. [00:14:33]
THERAPIST: I guess that's my impression...
CLIENT: I really don't...
THERAPIST: ...that you're sort of pretty ambivalent.
CLIENT: Yes. I don't really want to talk about it; I have a hard time with it but there's not much else that I'm capable of talking about sometimes. And....
THERAPIST: And then you also want to be honest with it. You want to in part share what's going on.
CLIENT: Yes, and I want other people to care or to know. And yes, that's like - yes and I have all these scars all over my legs now and they're pretty obvious; they show. And so...
THERAPIST: So your wearing a bathing suit is really silly.
CLIENT: Yes, so I'm not going to the beach this year. And so yesterday I was going hiking and I was like f*** this I'm wearing shorts and I haven't worn shorts in almost a year. But I wouldn't ordinarily do that and that was a real decision. I probably wouldn't have done that if I was hiking with somebody else. [00:16:10]
THERAPIST: Have you continued to keep from hurting yourself?
CLIENT: Yes I have. Yes. It's been hard.
THERAPIST: I was going to say it doesn't sound like that's been easy.
CLIENT: No, but I - no but it in some ways now I need to prove to myself that I can do this. And in some ways it's just kind of a - well it really doesn't fix anything. It doesn't actually help in the long run. It doesn't always help in the short run, so yes. So you know if I fail to keep that promise to myself I will try not to be too hard on myself but we'll see. I mean I know I shouldn't be hard on myself if I can't do it but...
THERAPIST: But clearly it's hard to keep from being hard on yourself.
CLIENT: Yes, it's kind of an issue.
THERAPIST: Yes. I imagine you felt pretty on your own for the last, most of the last week. I mean Franco's gone. I know you've been talking to James on the phone but he hasn't been physically around. We had a bit of a bigger gap than usual. [00:18:16]
CLIENT: Yes. In some ways that really, it makes things easier, in some ways it makes things harder. I really like to be alone. I don't but at the same time it does make things harder. So the one thing, one of the kind of positive things that I did do was I wrote to a couple of friends and said hey I'm at a loose end and you both are teachers so you get the summer off; let's have fun. So I - one of my good friends and her baby is going to come up and spend a few days with me the week after next, yes, and then at the end of the month I'm going to go down to see another friend. So I think that'll be really good. And both are them are both closed and kind of - I can just say hey I need to duck out for a few hours and have that be okay.
My friend that has a baby; she was my best friend in high school and she's also I think really, really has dealt with a lot of depression, really bad eating disorders. She still struggles with it. And it was really wonderful actually. After I kind of throw this e-mail on her she said yes, it's okay. We'll come visit you. She sent me a picture of herself and her husband and the baby holding and she was holding a piece of paper that said we love you; you are never alone. And so that was really awesome, really wonderful. So I put that as my desktop background. She's a really good person and also somebody who kind of gets it in a pretty fundamental way. [00:20:10]
THERAPIST: I guess part of the reason I'm being that way about you being alone is something about the way that you sort of come in. And I know you're just kind of catching me up on how things have been, but I don't know. There's something about the way that you're sort of presenting how awful things have been, how much it took out of you go to the event Sunday night, and how hard it's been at times not to be cutting yourself, and how much there is I guess often that sort of intense feeling of self hatred that you kind of know is there and feels like something to keep at a distance. I don't know, there's just something about the way that you're sharing it that makes me feel like in the moment you often feel very much by yourself with it.
CLIENT: That's why I keep telling people about it to try to make it less like I'm by myself with it but it doesn't make that any less the case. I tell you about it and I still feel alone. [00:22:18]
THERAPIST: I see.
CLIENT: Yes. I mean you're not the only one I've told in all these things. I mean I talk with James all the time. I had a long conversation with my dad last night, told him some of this. I feel like I am trying kind of desperately to - I feel like or I think that it feels as though if I talk about it, it won't be so intense and I won't feel so isolated. But even when I talk about it and even when people really hear me and tell me that I'm not alone I still feel very alone. It doesn't go away.
THERAPIST: Yes, I suspect then that there's something missing, although I don't know what that would be. I'm sorry.
CLIENT: It's okay. I'd rather hear it.
THERAPIST: I don't know what that is and it's clear that you don't either or you would say so. But I imagine it's because there's some aspect of it or some level of it or something about it that's somehow getting left out.
CLIENT: I don't know. You know, I keep coming back to this conversation that I had with my sister. We keep saying everybody's left us alone and we were both suffering at the time and we were both feeling for the other but at the same time we just had to acknowledge we just both felt very alone. I don't know. I've always, maybe not always, but I have for a long time kind of felt like being in relationships are the most important thing. That's why we are people; that's how we are people. That's why I started going to church even though I'm not - even though there's a lot of theology that I kind of say, well, I'll just let that one slide. And the big parts, just not the bread part. I believe in God and I believe that humans are by nature of being people we're meant to be in community and if we are to have a relationship with God that should also be a relationship in community. And I have this incredible, incredible network of people...
THERAPIST: That's great evidence for me too, yes. [00:26:02]
CLIENT: ...who would do anything for me and I would do anything for them. James and I were talking the other night and he was kind of talking through kind of thoughts that he had been having, has been having the last I don't know while and saying what do we really base our lives around. And for you and I for the last few years we've really based our lives around our work and said this is what we want to do. And maybe that was the right thing to do but maybe that's not right from here on out. Maybe we should base our lives around family and people and the people that we love. And I was just kind of like yes. And I think he was a little surprised that I didn't...
THERAPIST: [inaudible at 00:26:59] outside of yourself?
CLIENT: Yes. That was just like yes, I'm way ahead of you here. Or I tried to say that in a way that was not condescending or mean. But what's - I'm just like yes, no, absolutely. I agree with you completely. But I don't know. It's like I'm not part of the world any more and it feels like - yes. I don't know how to anchor myself again. I mean maybe a part of it is I kind of say okay I am not going to commit suicide because I have responsibilities to the people that I love because I am in these relationships and they need me because, primarily because I think the part of the marriage vow is saying you're not going to leave the other person. I can't leave him. And there's some resentment there. It's really hard. [00:28:43]
THERAPIST: Yes.
CLIENT: Yes, so it hurts too much or I never feel like the person that people love is actually me because if it were me they wouldn't love me. So there's that disconnect and that's a difficult one. Yes. [00:30:32]
THERAPIST: Yes, I'm not sure what to say.
CLIENT: It was a good hike.
THERAPIST: Yes?
CLIENT: Yes, this is the best day I've had this week. Really liked being outside. I mean it's actually true that I never feel safer than when I'm alone in the woods. That is literally true.
THERAPIST: That's just a riot.
CLIENT: When I was a little girl there was kind of [inaudible at 00:31:54] fakers and [inaudible at 00:31:56] other half and I kind of wandered out of there. Similarly I wonder why nobody ever said anything to me about it or noted or mentioned that I've been gone for hours or [inaudible]. But at the same time that was something that I really needed. So I suppose it was the best time for me. Maybe my dad was just more perspicacious than I thought. [00:32:31]
I don't know. Maybe there's a little bit of pride in there that other people worry about getting lost or getting hurt. I did a really long hike with my friend Gerry a couple years ago; it was 14 miles, full day. And she was - we were in the Blue Ridge Mountains, and there are black bears so she was really nervous about the bears. So I was kind of coaching her through, like really it's okay. This isn't the time of year for cubs so you don't have to worry about that because - and otherwise Black Bears are really, really shy and they definitely can hear us. And even if we see one it's really not a big deal. This is what we do. And it's some place I feel at home that most people don't feel at home. [00:34:10]
THERAPIST: I don't know if that's all there. One other part I wonder about is the extent to which it puts a good face on neglect.
CLIENT: You know, I don't actually - I don't think that's really true because everything I know about hiking and being in the woods I learned from my dad because that was the let's have some family bonding time was every day or two he'd be like hey anybody want to go for a walk? There was a nice little state park about a five-minute drive from my house and so we all went for hikes all the time.
THERAPIST: So it really was a time you often spent together? [00:36:01]
CLIENT: Yes.
THERAPIST: Unlike the time behind your house in the woods?
CLIENT: Yes. So I was comfortable being - yes, it's kind of two complementary things if that makes sense. So I usually think of hikes as social events. I don't often go for hikes by myself, or I didn't used to. But if we'd go on vacations up to Ontario and there's nothing. I mean it's a rock out on the [inaudible] Bay. And so I'd go explore the - I thought at the time there was an island but I don't know why I thought that because it was clearly the coastline because I'd be like I'm going to walk around the island and then I'd walk for an hour. Yes, and that was actually pretty safe I mean in the sense that I would let my seven-year-old do that. Yes, I mean I think of the things that I got from my parents, the things that they taught me. My dad taught me how to be out in the wilderness in a good way, in a safe way, and how to just love it. My mom taught me how to make things, how to love that. So if the apocalypse comes I'm ready. Except for the Synthroid part, that's going to be tough.
THERAPIST: The what? [00:38:17]
CLIENT: I take Synthroid, so...
THERAPIST: What's that?
CLIENT: Oh, my thyroid replacement therapy. So when that runs out I'm screwed.
THERAPIST: That's what I thought. Or find it naturally and bring it with you.
CLIENT: Yes. Two bad there's none in biology. Yes, no I think, I think it's good. My dad did build me a treehouse out in the woods once. I think he might have been trying to convince me to stay in one place instead of just wander around all over the place. And that was really nice so I played in that a lot.
THERAPIST: Over the next year?
CLIENT: I think I'm okay. Not that complicated. It was like a - it was a young wood. It was pretty scrubby. There weren't very many good actual old trees for climbing. Not that I didn't try. Yes, I mean I, I don't know. I really still don't know what to make of the extent to which I just wandered around everywhere when I was a kid in my town and whether that was reasonable or not for my parents to let me do that. It's a pretty safe town. It's like 200 (ph) people. We didn't have a key to the front door. I'm not even sure if one even existed but we went off for vacation we didn't lock it. I don't know. But I certainly - you know, in retrospect I wonder about the amount of time that I would be gone and that didn't seem to matter. At the time that just seemed normal. [00:40:58]
THERAPIST: It probably follows that you're wondering about it from a grown-up perspective. You already walked the world that you did at the time where whatever happens would seem pretty normal. Does it still seem kind of normal or like a problem or what? Is that right?
CLIENT: Yes. And I just don't know. The first person that suggested that might not be normal was James. He was just like what? But I look at the way his mom parents her children and I mean they're - four out of five of them are college age or above and it's still very important to her to know where they are all the time. It's not necessarily like she still feels like she has control over them but she likes to know. And they live in about the same situation as I do, like they live way out in the backcountry. But it would not be okay with her for her kids to just take off. [00:43:02]
THERAPIST: Which you did from what age?
CLIENT: Seven or eight.
THERAPIST: So running around town, in the woods, whatever and you've come up pretty nice.
CLIENT: Yes.
THERAPIST: I guess at the end of the day it seems to me it would help to put light on what it was like for you. I don't know like how annoying that feeling of being alone or afraid or keep - you know what I mean? I guess it would seem to me only to come back to how well it worked for you or didn't work.
CLIENT: Yes, and I was always afraid when I was around people and never afraid when I was alone. So I never knew what people were going to do and I never knew when somebody was going to hurt me. But I could tell what was going to happen when I was with myself. I controlled that situation. Like, if I'm lost it's because I want to be lost and I know that I just have to keep walking and I'll find my way back. It's not a big deal.
THERAPIST: We'll stop for now.
CLIENT: Yes. [00:44:54]
END TRANSCRIPT
