TRANSCRIPT OF AUDIO FILE:
______________________________________________________________________________
BEGIN TRANSCRIPT:
CLIENT: So.
THERAPIST: How are you?
CLIENT: Hi.
THERAPIST: How are you today?
CLIENT: Good. So. Interesting process, I think. I had one thing on my schedule today—- yesterday, rather—- which was a faculty meeting (inaudible at 00:26.1). I went to Starbucks in the Square, which I don't like on principle, but it's a good place to work. I didn't. I mean, I guess it was a relief to kind of unburden myself yesterday, but it wasn't—- nothing was resolved. I still felt the same.
[01:03.3]
You know, I had a sense that it would be easier to do the things that were on my list, but it really wasn't. And I kind of lost four hours there, really, which is a lot. It's not unprecedented. I sat down around 10 or 9:45, and it was 1:30 when I got into one thing. I was feeling equally just as upset and desperate as I have been the previous few weeks. 
[01:53.1]
So one of the things that was on my list—- and I was conscious of the sort of internal debate or deliberation over this step, you know, that was part of it. But it wasn't clear to me exactly what part it played, you know. One of the things on my list was to write a note to Kevin to sort of touch base and ask—-
THERAPIST: Is he the Bank guy?
CLIENT: He's the Bank guy. And sound him out about what we discussed because I'm tied to the city now, which was a kind of consulting gig. I think I may have mentioned that I talked to a mutual friend and former colleague Jack about this. I kind of began to imagine a scenario in which that would happen and discussed it with him and kind of gave him some advice which (chuckles) I very forthrightly said was a bit self-interested because I would like to work on such a project as well.
[03:05.1]
And actually two or three days ago, I came down to see what was going on with him and he hadn't written back. So at 1:30 I wrote a note to Kevin and copied Jack. I said I just wanted to see if this was still a reasonable possibility, and that I had a clarifying talk with this other mutual friend of ours last week. I'm kind of entertaining—- no, I'm not entertaining. I think it's pretty clear to me that this setting is not going to be a way for me to find an academic track through the back door. 
[03:55.6]
I didn't say that to Kevin. I said, you know, "I'm ready to kind of leave this straddling and to move in a kind of a clear direction. Do you still have a need for the kind of work that we discussed?" And I said that I talked to Jack and so I was copying him. So, you know, three hours later Jack wrote back saying "Sorry I haven't been in touch. It's really good to hear you touch this. We talked about such and such." So the ball was really rolling in that direction. Immediately after sending it, a little before this other response came in, I felt—- it was amazing. Like within two nanoseconds of having sent this e-mail, you know, I felt so just disrupted. (pause)
[05:06.7]
I'm looking for something with an "ins" prefix. Just kind of non—- I don't know. I don't know. I felt very disturbed, how's that? And suddenly it was gone. And so I went to this faculty meeting feeling pretty good, and it was all this good give-and-take and I had a good rapport with the guy who was directing the course. (pause) I came back and met Jennie (ph) at the house. She had just returned from an orientation meeting, so this is like at 6:00. (pause)
[06:01.7]
As I was kind of sitting on the couch, Jack wrote and then half an hour later, Phil called and he said "You know, I'm sorry. This that and the other thing. I've decided to stay." I'm just like "Okay, great, so let's talk tomorrow about kind of the task ahead." So I hadn't burned any bridges in that department, even though—- whatever. And I just had this sense of actually having handled it right this time. I mean, my typical pattern has been that there will be a dilemma of this kind, usually involving two other parties that I'm feeling kind of split between, and I will just feel so devastatingly destructed by this sense that's kind of all-pervasive. It's somatized. It's psychologized. It's spiritualized. It's sublimated. (chuckles)
[07:05.7]
It's like it becomes this conflict which I can't really—- I don't really have an Archimedean point to be able to access whether there's something wrong with me or if it's just a conflict or what. I'm so devastated by it that I take steps of one kind or another that mean that I've sort of—- I don't know. I've abdicated any agency, you know, any latitude to kind of choose between them. I'll leave or I'll write kind of a crazy anguished note to somebody that means they're concerned about continuing to give me things. Something, some response that's kind of non-functional, and this time somehow I didn't. I didn't do that.
[08:05.9]
And I think I'm okay. I mean, I think I'm in a decent position. I have a job for the moment. The ball is rolling on this other front. I'm prepared, I think, now to actually apply for jobs which frankly I've never done in my life. Not, I mean, you know, in kind of a half-assed way that isn't really reasonable or realistic. But not from a position where, you know, it's not where I'd like to be at the age of 41, but I'm management in a multi-million dollar program with good grant funding. You know, you apply from a position like that and you can get other jobs. So I feel pretty good. I feel pretty good. I feel like there's a bit of a, I don't know, this beneficent spiral.
THERAPIST: What's that?
[09:02.3]
CLIENT: You know, this theory of history where there was this analysis of the history of the bible was that it's not like a kind of circle, a transmigration of soul. You're always moving forward. There's a lot of circling around and around and around. So it feels good. I guess I had thought that might be a good jumping off point, you know, something to talk about anyway, just this—- the extremity of my, I don't know, my embodiment, assumption, just sort of sublimation of these kinds of conflicts. How disruptive they are. I mean, it was totally devastating. I couldn't function any normal way ranging from housework to work-work.
[10:00.5]
Even in my emotional interaction with Jennie (ph) I felt very—- I didn't let on. She sensed it a little bit. But I was really feeling very disconnected. Have been ever since this began. [And so is it some kind of emotional engagement and affect and attenuated]—- I don't know. It's interesting. It's curious. I'm chastened by it. I would like to just sort of understand it or at least know how to approach it better. But on the other side of this conflict—- 
THERAPIST: No, it's devastating.
CLIENT: Totally. I mean, it's like—- I had a few suicidal ideations. I was really in distress. It was never super-specific. I shouldn't say they were never super-specific. They weren't super-specific—- 
THERAPIST: What did you think?
CLIENT: Oh, I don't know. I mean, you know—- 
[10:59.9]
THERAPIST: I'm not asking because I'm really worried about your safety.
CLIENT: No, I don't think—- 
THERAPIST: But because I think they're actually very important.
CLIENT: Yeah, well, clearly. Oh, I don't know. The river. (chuckles) Just kind of considering all of the [off the path] options. (chuckles) And I'm able to preserve some self-consciousness about that. That's not anything that I've—- but there were layers of consciousness, and one of them was really in distress. One of them was really in distress.
THERAPIST: Yeah, absolutely.
CLIENT: Really really in a bad way. (pause) (sigh) I mean, I think even in the moment, I had enough consciousness that I was aware that there were multiple (inaudible at 12:06.3) of personality, and I was aware that at least one of them was kind of strong enough to negotiate.
[12:16.4]
But yeah, so as a measure of distress, I think it's pretty descriptive. So, you know, that seems like a good challenge. It's good to be on this side of it, I guess. But I need to know more about that. I want to know more about it, and I want to be able to notice it and not just notice it's going on but actually be able to intervene. (long pause) 
[13:24.5]
THERAPIST: What is it?
CLIENT: What is—-
THERAPIST: You're upset.
CLIENT: No, I'm actually allergic.
THERAPIST: Oh, okay.
CLIENT: I think. You know, you never know of these things. (chuckles) I'm only conscious of having my eyes a little irritated.
THERAPIST: Oh, okay.
CLIENT: I don't feel upset, at any rate. And this is something, you've noticed this I think, where I will not feel conscious of being upset and yet there will be some very clear expression—-
THERAPIST: Yeah.
CLIENT: I don't think that's happening now.
THERAPIST: Okay.
CLIENT: [But I will entertain the possibility that it's]—- 
THERAPIST: Yeah, I don't know either. I mean, where there is some dissociative stuff going on, it sort of ruminates more of a question whether you're upset (inaudible) or simply—- 
[14:17.6]
CLIENT: Which is kind of a different incarnation of what I was talking about a moment ago, really, at some level. This dissociation in two directions, you know. One of them is in the direction of outward calm but inward unfelt turmoil, and the other is an expression of outward turmoil but at some level, you know, another layer of calm that is protective. (pause) 
THERAPIST: Say that last part again about another layer of calm that is protective.
CLIENT: Well, I mean, at some level over the last week in particular I've been computing. I have been able to say to myself at some times approaching consciousness, "Look, this is a conflict. You're straddling. Your feeling of distress is going to be alleviated if you set the wheels in motion in these other directions that don't feel so"—- and sometimes when I have these fleeting sort of inklings that was probably the case, that this has happened before. 
That it has always had a similar dynamic of being split, you know, and there are historical—-
[15:38.8]
THERAPIST: But you aren't just in the turmoil, you were also—- (voices overlapping)
CLIENT: Yeah, yeah. There was some kind of, you know, some layer of consciousness as I was saying or personality or what have you that was there and was able to, at some level, not reign in this real kind of chaotic feeling of (pause) de-identification, what have you. But I wasn't able to reign it in but at least was able to say somehow "Don't go all the way with this. Don't totally lose it. Keep your powder dry." I don't know. Whatever stupid metaphor you want to use. And so, you know, that experience, hard-won, I'll tell you.
[16:48.4]
THERAPIST: I know.
CLIENT: Really hard-won, you know. Won by (chuckles) financial turmoil and domestic, you know, chaos and so on. But that experience seems, on this occasion, finally at last to have been somewhat protective. So, you know, I want to understand a little better how I was able to do that and hopefully—- I just don't want every—- you know, it's never fun to be trying to figure out your professional career and your domestic situation and your whatever, your credit rating or what have you. But, you know, it doesn't have to completely destroy your world, and it really has been. I've not been enjoying the last months at all. 
[17:43.6]
I've been very distressed and, you know, some of it is inevitable, but 80-90 percent of it seems like unnecessary pain and suffering. I would really like to know how to live conflict better. (long pause) 
[19:32.4]
THERAPIST: Tell me about some of the other indications, in addition to having fleeting thoughts of suicide, of how upset you were and how bad you felt.
CLIENT: There's a funny one that Jennie (ph) is very good at recognizing and pointing out, which is that I'll come home and I'll have my murse on my shoulder—- man-purse, you know those—- (chuckles)
THERAPIST: Oh, is that what it's called? Okay. (chuckles) 
CLIENT: And I'll just sit down and I won't take it off. I'll just completely not be aware that it's there. I'll leave my shoes on. I won't take my jacket off. I'll just sit there and focus on some repetitive behavior or whatever.
[20:35.8]
So I'm very prone to—- like my impulse control becomes very very attenuated. I'll eat like a whole bag of chips. I'll sit for two-and-a-half hours with my purse on my shoulder and my jacket on and my shoes on—- well, I take the shoes off because the landlord is downstairs. You know, I'll just sit there on the living room couch. She'll come home and all of the lights will be off, and I'll just be sitting there in the dark, refreshing the same Internet page again, waiting for an update. (pause) She claims she can smell the difference in my scent when I'm feeling this way. Is that too specific?
[21:36.2]
THERAPIST: No.
CLIENT: You know, we've called it. We've named it, right? Given it a personality. But I think that's what's going on there. There's some—- 
THERAPIST: I guess the difference between your description of that and the suicidal thoughts is that I think the suicidal thoughts say something closer to how you feel. Whereas this description of like Jefferey (ph) getting home from work—-
CLIENT: Or not work. 
THERAPIST: (chuckles) Right. It seems more from the outside what it looks like.
[22:37.6]
CLIENT: Okay.
THERAPIST: What you're doing from Jennie's (ph) perspective—-
CLIENT: Fair enough. I hear you. It's true. I mean, I guess it's cause and effect in some sense, right? These are feelings of significant distress that I kind of stave off by filling my head with something else which is reflected by this activity. So one is the actual dissociation and the other is the sort of trigger of the dissociation, right?
THERAPIST: What thoughts of distress are those?
CLIENT: (pause) Often center on people who are disgusted or rejecting or I've alienated fatally. These are not feelings, they're cognitions, but it's part of the puzzle I guess.
[23:49.4]
So usually it will involve something like, you know, a feeling I'm having of distress being displaced onto somebody else. Distress over not being able to work. Distress over, you know, we're getting a little closer to me in understanding how—- I guess one of the features of this state is that, you know, there's just massive projection. When I'm feeling worthless, I will embody it in somebody else. I'll have some, you know—- interject anybody who hasn't written me in the last—- responded to me in the last two hours could probably serve. 
[24:41.0]
Oddly, I don't feel it. Like having settled this conflict—- this is interesting, actually—- having settled this conflict, you know, for weeks and weeks every e-mail I wrote I would feel sort of terror when somebody didn't respond within five hours. This message I sent to Kevin, none of that. It's completely discrepant from all of these experiences over the last four months. That was a Freudian slip, but "four weeks" was what I intended to say. You know, four years, whatever. (laughter) Four decades. (laughter) I mean, you know, I'm totally at peace. Especially it was very nice that Jack responded, so that takes a little of the pressure off. It was a good message. It was totally on-point. It was very matter-of-fact. It was very straightforward. (pause)
[25:44.1]
So I will project my sense of, you know, really terror in some level at falling apart onto others who supposedly—- it's like when I was very small, if I wanted to do something that, I don't know. Like many kids, I had a bad habit when I was very small of picking my nose. I would pull my shirt over my head and pick my nose so (inaudible at 26:18.7) (laughter) And then I think, wait a minute, this doesn't make any sense. And yet, you know, the complexity of my feelings and anxieties and what have you by observation somehow had this reciprocal effect where even though I knew at some level I could be observed (chuckles), I had the illusion that I couldn't.
[26:49.4]
So I mean, again, this sort of classic self and other engineering goes a little bit haywire consistently so that there is an externalization of all of these kind of private emotions and private feelings. So maybe that's closer to what you were asking.
THERAPIST: You said something about that keeping you from falling apart?
CLIENT: (pause) Does it? I think I am falling apart. I mean—-
THERAPIST: You said—-
CLIENT: That this response keeps me from falling apart.
THERAPIST: Yeah. It's possible I misunderstood.
[27:42.0]
CLIENT: No. If I said that, it may not be what I intended to say. But it's probably true at some level. It's so distressing to kind of have to confront this state of being, this state of mind and being that any other activity that will take me away from it is to be preferred. Work is not an activity of that sort in my perception. In fact, it might well be if I were able to get to it, but somehow I can't get there. Somehow I couldn't get to this e-mail for eight or nine days. Somehow even though I kind of know what works and what doesn't, and I know this response is kind of maladaptive, it's to be preferred because it feels like the alternative is really just having to live in this distress. (pause)
[28:50.6]
THERAPIST: Which distress? 
CLIENT: My response to my kind of emotional—- sort of my habitual emotional response to conflict. The way in which I somatize these things. The feeling in my legs that I was describing yesterday. Just all of the stigmata of anxiety, you know. This very strong anxiety response to conflict. To a particular kind of conflict. (pause) I mean, this week I had cold sores and canker sores all over the place. (pause) 
[29:43.0]
Maybe it's a total coincidence because I've been taking lysine and gargling with Listerine, but the disappearance of my canker sores coincided almost exactly with sending this note. So, you know, magical thinking or anything but clearly there's a process that really implicates this part and this part. (pause) 
THERAPIST: You do this thing—- (chuckles)
CLIENT: (chuckles)
THERAPIST: —- where you describe these things to me. I mean, a number of times, for example in this hour I've noticed two—-
CLIENT: Therapeutic hour?
[30:46.3]
THERAPIST: Yes, right. Like a little bit as if I didn't know about them or you were trying to make the sentiment very clear. The feeling I have is that you're sort of describing it to somebody who is quite outside and doesn't really quite get the nature of the experience.
CLIENT: That's me. It's me. I'm describing it in this way because I don't remember it. It's like every time it happens, it's new to me. I have to reconstruct it in the course of describing it to you.
[31:44.4]
THERAPIST: Yep. So the presentation in essence is like for you as much as—- (voices overlapping)
CLIENT: I mean, I don't know how I have this cognitively, but it's clear to me that, you know, often—-
THERAPIST: You're trying to get yourself in touch with the experience.
CLIENT: I'm trying to get myself in touch with the experience as much as anything else.
THERAPIST: Yeah.
CLIENT: So, you know, building a coherent narrative at any given moment is essential. In some sense, I haven't spoken of it before even though at some level obviously I know that this is not unfamiliar territory for us.
THERAPIST: Right. (long pause)
[32:57.7]
Maybe there is even almost a quality of desperation in how emphatic you are in talking about what it's really like, like you're really trying to get through. 
CLIENT: (pause) I don't—- I don't feel any desperation. I feel—- I love completeness. I love synthesis. I mean, I feel like, you know, whenever I'm telling a story I'm in that story and all of the parts are fitting together. And to give that story coherence and symmetry and, you know, sort of descriptive power, I need to tell all of it. I can't—- footnoting is not adequate.
[33:54.5]
It's more of—- I experience it, at least, more as an aesthetic thing. Kind of an emotional and aesthetic thing. It's like for completeness' sake, I need to describe all of these things even on reflection—-
THERAPIST: Like to feel whole.
CLIENT: To feel whole. You know, in describing it to you, I feel satisfied now. I feel a sense of contentment.
THERAPIST: I see.
CLIENT: I feel a sense of satisfaction.
THERAPIST: That's helpful for me to know because it didn't seem that way.
CLIENT: I seemed agitated.
THERAPIST: Yeah. Yeah.
CLIENT: Well, maybe I am. Maybe that's part of it. I don't know. I'm not in touch with all of those things.
THERAPIST: I guess the other thing that was leading me to think that was that, you know, in that these are things that we sort of have talked about before and that you've made clear before. The feeling was as though you kind of had to say it again because it somehow hadn't sunk in. 
[34:57.7]
I'm not trying to sort of disagree with what you said. I'm just saying how it had come across before. What you're saying is that no, rather it feels like a satisfying act of synthesis, at the end of which you feel more whole and better.
CLIENT: (pause) A good measure of how anxious or upset or disrupted I feel is my sentence structure, I think. You know, if there are a lot of speech tics and false starts and "umms" and "ohs" there is a certain feeling that correlates. If, you know, my sentences are whole and well-formed, then I usually feel okay. I feel good. I feel at least, you know, a sense of well-being. 
[36:00.1]
I think that's a fairly consistent observation that can be—- it's valid. It applies for me pretty consistently. You know, I feel pleased to express a whole thought. I feel pleased to have collected a variety of observations that have come up in partial form at various times between us that I'm kind of knitting together. I feel as if the model is—- there's a synthesis (inaudible at 36:40.1) discussion. But I think it's plausible to me that there's also a lot of anxiety or even desperation that I'm not in touch with that fuels what is experienced as well-being.
[37:02.1]
There's certainly a lot of energy. I'm moving my hands, and I'm feeling that I'm being very emphatic. So there's some energy there, and I think that some of it probably does come—-
THERAPIST: [Another thing that is occurring to me is] Penelope's Loom. 
CLIENT: Penelope's Loom. She—- okay, I don't remember. Oh, that she was waiting for Odysseus and waiting as the suitors are lining up for her and she's putting them off. What does she say? As soon as she finishes the weaving that she'll marry them?
THERAPIST: So she weaves during the day and then [undoes it] at night, yeah.
CLIENT: I don't get the application.
THERAPIST: Because—- I mean, you're talking about the weaving together and yet the fact that you're having to sort of—- you're talking about weaving together experiences that you've been very busy keeping from yourself.
[38:08.6]
CLIENT: (pause) Yeah. Yeah.
THERAPIST: I mean, it does sound like the direction is Spinozan.
CLIENT: (laughter) Oh, okay.
THERAPIST: (laughter) In that, you know, clearly, this is a lot about what you've been talking about today. As awful as it's been and as distressing and as stuck as you've felt at times recently, it's clearly better in that you're a little more aware of what's going on. You've been able to sort of navigate a little better, and that's a huge deal.
[39:01.4]
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: But you have also been really keeping from yourself or keeping separate, you know, the more outside and more inside perspectives on what's going on, if that makes sense. 
CLIENT: But I haven't been keeping—- I've been keeping it from myself, you know. But I clearly haven't been keeping it from myself because I can narrate it to you right now. So something is recording all of this. It's not as if I need to carry your iPad around all day in order to be able to preserve it in whatever distorted form.
[40:02.5]
THERAPIST: At the same time, you can be sitting yesterday for four hours, paralyzed and I think unable to narrate—-
CLIENT: (sigh) Right.
THERAPIST: —- to yourself what you're in the middle of.
CLIENT: Yeah, keeping it from myself in that sense for sure. (pause) But keeping it.
THERAPIST: Yeah, right. You come in today and lay it out.
CLIENT: So, you know, so that's the challenge, I guess, is to keep it without keeping it from.
THERAPIST: Yep. (pause)
[41:08.2]
And I wonder how much of this is most immediately in response to—- I mean, you used the word "conflict"—- and how much it's—- I just had the thought that maybe it's more in response to abandonment. 
CLIENT: (long pause) Well, both, I would say. I mean, I think both are troublesome.
THERAPIST: Yeah.
[42:03.7]
CLIENT: You know, in my life they've kept very close company, those two phenomena. They each have their complexities. So yeah, no, definitely. It's a very consistent theme. I totally agree. (pause) I mean, in life both the conflict or struggle between two alternatives and the process of abandoning—- the risk of being abandoned and the prospect of abandoning are like, you know, this is life. This is how you engage with other people. These are two sort of universal, recurring, inevitable, structural features of social interaction.
[43:07.6]
You know, the fact that they loom so large thematically for me is specific to my own personal history. But of course they're going to come up again and again. You know, in three minutes or whatever, you're going to abandon me or I'm going to abandon you or, you know, we'll make a choice to stay an extra three minutes or what have you. (chuckles) You know, it's like at every level of abstraction, every kind of order of magnitude, these two themes come up. And the problem for me, I think, has been these two inevitable structural features of living with other human beings are so freighted with distress and despair and confusion that I haven't been able to really navigate them in a way that's constructive for my life.
[43:57.9]
So, you know, realizing that, I think, is good. Realizing that every time, you know, there's a kind of need to choose between two alternatives, you don't need to freak out. I don't need to freak out. That's good, but that doesn't mean that I'm any better at navigating them yet. (long pause) 
[44:56.6]
THERAPIST: What's it like after you leave here? We're going to stop in a minute, but—-
CLIENT: What's it like after I leave here? Oh, I could answer that question in any number of ways. I have a phone call with Phil at 10:15. I have to meet Jennie (ph) downtown for a hairdresser appointment that I told her I would come to because she asked me for advice. At 11:45 we have a couples' therapy appointment. At 2:30, in between there, I have a bunch of work I have to deliver to the Africans. I have to decide about this trip which might or might not be next week. That's the way the day looks on my scheduler.
[46:04.7]
What's it like emotionally after I leave here? (pause) (sigh) I don't know. Today I feel a burden has been lifted to some degree, you know. Jack and I are going to talk later in the week, and I feel a sense of satisfaction that these relationships that I've preserved, not only to have the possibility of a really nice working relationship that allows me to work with this person that I have for many years now, and yet be in a team with somebody, given the fact that he's running an organization with 15,000 people in it now. 
[47:00.5]
You know, so I feel satisfaction and kind of anticipation of the possibility of doing this, and that feels good because that feels like something I did. It's something I preserved. It's something that I helped to create, whatever happens. Whatever direction I go. I feel a little concern about my ability to take this sense of equanimity or satisfaction or well-being and actually work. I feel a little concern about all of these appointments that I have to go to with Jennie (ph), although I'm happy to do them and they're good. Working in between them is a bit of a challenge, and I don't want to get sucked in again to this other state which can be self-reinforcing. So I feel some—- I don't know if "anxiety" is the right word, but at least—- 
THERAPIST: A little worried.
CLIENT: A little concerned about that.
[47:57.5]
THERAPIST: We need to stop for now.
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: You'll have to keep me posted on next week.
CLIENT: Oh, right. Yeah, well we should settle it today so I'll be able to let you know.
THERAPIST: Okay.
CLIENT: But it sounded like you—-
THERAPIST: I'm out on Monday for the holiday, and I'm actually going to be out on Wednesday morning as well. But I can certainly find stuff, but just—- 
CLIENT: Okay, yeah, I'll let you know sooner rather than later. Okay, have a good weekend.
THERAPIST: Thank you, you too.
END TRANSCRIPT
