TRANSCRIPT OF AUDIO FILE:
______________________________________________________________________________
BEGIN TRANSCRIPT:


COUNSELOR: (inaudible) 24-006 Session number one. 1970. Client 0324-006. Session number one.


PATIENT: I'm not quite sure how this is run but...


COUNSELOR: What to do here?


PATIENT: What to do here. Yes.


COUNSELOR: Well can I talk about how many - the way it has to run. If you have a place where you want to start something that's concerning you that's where I'd like to start. Does that help?


PATIENT: Well it's that - it's the kind of thing that's been going on for so long. And sometimes I'm like really down and getting to the point where I'm really down. And other times I'm sort of just okay which I'm (inaudible at 1:09) so it's really hard to say this is my problem. 


COUNSELOR: Like it might be easier if you were a little down today or something?


PATIENT: Yeah.


COUNSELOR: I think you're saying.


PATIENT: I'm ... I you know I can say it in so many words but there all just pretty vague. I guess basically I need to compel. Because I know that I've finally learned that I can't work out things by myself ... as much as I try. I'm just somehow talking to somebody that can ... I don't know do what? Point me in a different direction or get some things out of me that I've just sort of been (inaudible at 2:13) and hiding for a long time. It's real necessary. And I'm sometimes just feel like screaming because I just want to talk to somebody so badly and I end up trying to use boyfriends or a couple of - I've got like three really good girlfriends that are spread across the country. That one of them especially I can talk to pretty much about just about anything. But then I feel like I'm using her. [2:45]


And then that just gives me one more thing to worry about. Just the fact that the last thing she needs is me crying on her shoulder all of the time. That's not the image that I like of myself. The image that I like of myself is more like sort of very sub confident and competent and ... really able to handle things. Which I can be. But I keep realizing more and more that unless I get some things straightened out myself I'm just not going to make it through graduate school. And I'm not going to be a decent counselo
r myself which I hope to be. And ... I'm just not going to do (inaudible at 3:47) 


COUNSELOR: You know sounds like just you're not sure how this is going to go but you - alright it's not like - you feel like you're containing a whole lot of stuff inside yourself. And so far you haven't gotten anywhere trying to do it by yourself. Trying to talk to your friends about it sounds like maybe I don't know just makes you feel bad about yourself. You don't like how you - what that does to you - to have to talk to them. So it's like you know you want to talk to I guess a therapist or someone that you don't know that well. But you're not really sure how it'll go. 


PATIENT: Yeah that's true. I mean I'm really, really skeptical. But at the this time I really know that it's kind of one of my hopes I suppose.


COUNSELOR: You're skeptical that talking to someone won't help you?


PATIENT: I guess so. I guess I'm skeptical of pile of things. I guess because I run into some really bad ones. But I haven't really gone to very many. I just started this one with the free clinic (inaudible at 4:56) once this year ... sort of under direst to go.


COUNSELOR: Direst from outside you or in your own pressure? [5:06]


PATIENT: Well when I tried to kill myself about two years ago or [whenever it happened] (ph). And I saw a psychiatrist where I was when I got out of the hospital. And he told that he was going to let me come back to New York. I was out of town on vacation at the time. And he you know that it was okay but that I really needed to see somebody. And I didn't really want to see anybody. But I ended up realizing that I just - at that point I was really still anxious - that I couldn't function. I was just really incapacitated by it. I mean I did end up getting psychosomatic symptoms of like you'd be really sick in your stomach cramps and so forth that I couldn't eat for weeks. And getting further and further behind on work and stuff like that. So I have kind of and with my parents calling me and realizing that I was sick and had gone to see a psychiatrist and I'd say no. So I just sort of tried this coming (inaudible at 6:16) It's just really (inaudible at 6:20). And.


COUNSELOR: So this isn't like any theoretical or I don't know skepticism that you get from reading journals. Like you have personally then experienced?


PATIENT: Yeah.


COUNSELOR: And that leads you to be very - well you said skeptical - I guess also leery about what's going to happen here.


PATIENT: Well yeah well part of my bad experience. Well part of my experiences comes with working as a counselor with myself. Which I'm doing now. And I'm working in state and in hospitals and so forth. And realizing that these guys that I'm working with are you know my superiors. Don't know me. Or know every little. And like just the resident physiatrist I went to last year I knew damn well I knew more about physiology or just about people than he did. He didn't - he would give me back the next week what I had tried to tell him the week before completely reversed. Completely ignoring what I had meant. And just I guess being basically insensitive. Which just makes me feel like I'm not getting ahead of things just unwinding (ph). Not exactly (inaudible at 7:33) or continuing my therapy.


COUNSELOR: Okay good. It sounds like you right now you're in kind of a box because there's something in you that's really pushing to try that again. I think you said something about feeling that was your last hope or something to that effect. [7:47]


PATIENT: It's been pushing. I mean I've had it on my mind for a long time and I've. When I left this (inaudible at 7:53) about the third guy that they kept transferring me to at the hospital (ph) (sp?), I decided to walk out because he was just so bad. I just I was really sick and sick with anxiety. I realized afterwards was the cause that I was really sick. And I just said if he can't do it I'll do it myself. And I did you know survive. I did okay. But I just realized that I'm not functioning as well as I should. And there's (sub guard) (ph) - too many - well there's too many times that I have really, really deep depressions that. And I react to them by trying to just block out the world. And just not wanting to talk to anybody or see anybody. And as a result don't want like my really best friends (for because I'm) (ph) really tired or something like that because I won't write anybody when I'm really down. It's not me then. It's really like a different person. And better (inaudible at 9:04) have tremendous you know felt tremendously good but doesn't last longer. It's just like no in between when I can just settle down and work. And feel good about doing it. And I guess I just started to apply coming here when I was sort of really starting to have all sorts of anxiety attacks again and kind of the same problem of not being at this sort of thing. Kind of needing tranquillizers all of the time and really like I really haven't felt like killing myself in about a month. But before that it was pretty often. And it was pretty strong. It was at least really strong up through last year. When I guess I came pretty close to trying it again. And now I - it's like right at the moment I'm in a state where I don't know if I can make a go of it. [10:08]


COUNSELOR: Is that - are you talking about like that state that you just described before is kind of like the bottom and it feels like sort of on your way up if you're willing to try something?


PATIENT: I guess you'd say not necessarily on my way up but at a level above the bottom.


COUNSELOR: Yeah.


PATIENT: So that I feel like maybe there's something worth staying around. Which is not what I feel when I really feel like killing myself.


COUNSELOR: Okay and I guess that ... what I'm thinking about and I didn't hear you say it, it's just the way it came to me like sort things around and maybe it's worth trying again to let somebody in or just tell somebody about it. Even though I would image like you would feel very weary about going through this whole process of trying to get yourself across to somebody again.


PATIENT: I just know that what I'm kind of dealing with I'm going to get. Like right now I'm just I've been ever since I've been in New York just really going like this is (my third deal) (ph). It's been like doing things as they come along and really not initiating anything and you're not being satisfied in accomplishing anything. And even my first three months here I was really a lot and I was really out trying to do things. And since then I've just been completely overwhelmed. And I know that the only way I'm going to get myself out is to do something about myself. And you know just making up all my incompletes which I have millions of. And kind of getting rid of all emotions and starting it you know I'll start feeling later. Just sort of get down to work or get down to the job now. It's not going to solve it. Because the only way I can really do it is to really be a whole person. The thing is I know what that feels like because I felt it sometimes. (inaudible at 12:37)


COUNSELOR: It's rare and it sounds like right now you have absolutely no idea how to get there or how even approach it closely enough so that you could for God's sake make up two incompletes. It's sounding like its like being buried under a snow drift and if you get anything done it's because you got goateed from behind sort of or from the outside. Not because you feel you were able to do it. [13:04]


PATIENT: Yeah. And it's not doing things because I want to them. It's because they are sort of there to be done. And I mean there are a million things that I really would like to do. They're very disorganized in my mind right now and a lot of them are very impractical. But you know I'm making no head way in even doing one. It's gotten so it's really a chore to take off on a camping trip which is something that I'd love to finally do last weekend. But just to decide okay let's go ... and to heck with the work for a weekend is really hard. 


COUNSELOR: And it sounds like that's a signal of something wrong when you can't make a clear decision to go do something you really love to do. Like that really says that's really sad for me. 


PATIENT: Yeah. Because that's - then that's part of the - that just repeats that into the whole problem of I mean part of I'm sure what's causing it is all of the feeling that you know here I am really just sitting around and going over not doing anything that I really feel is worthwhile. And just really wasting time. And as a result I just sit around and waste more time. It's just very strange thing.


COUNSELOR: It's like everything that happened that piles another thing on top of that. As if nothing happens to break it or to break into it or to loosen it at all for you. But it just all becomes an additional weight. Is that what you were saying?


PATIENT: Yeah pretty much. Just the fact that there is a weight there anyway makes me not accomplish things which just adds another weight to it. And makes me more (inaudible at 15:15) And it's really it's not even like when I first decided I had to begin (inaudible at 15:28) It was a long time before I did what I thought was taking the pills to do it. With - it wasn't that I was unhappy at the time or really depressed you know feeling that everybody hated me or anything else. It was more of a feeling that things were never going to get any better. And I wasn't I mean I just mostly I can't stand being (inaudible at 15:59). I can't stand kind of like the statistics. And ... [16:04]


COUNSELOR: That's what you saw stretching ahead of you.


PATIENT: That's what I saw stretching ahead of me. And like I was - it occurred at a time where I was ending my boyfriend and we were sort of breaking up. Not really but it was the case of where it wasn't - I finally realized it wasn't going to get any better. And it had been very, very beautiful. And I wanted to say that. And I didn't feel like I had the power to create anything as beautiful (to me anymore) (ph). And it was kind of seeing that all of my best friends had sort of gone all of their separate ways. And that everything that was really - and you know didn't need me at all - and everything that was really meaningful. There was really no need for my being around anymore. For myself and for others. And ... in a sense it was like you know it was like a really (deep hurt to) (ph) feel and not going off in anger and everything like that.


COUNSELOR: You're saying it wasn't impulsive?


PATIENT: It wasn't impulsive. I'd been thinking about it for a very long. And it was very well planned. And when I did it and I felt very good when I did it. I felt very happy in a lot of - in some kind of a really deep way. And it was like really kind of (holy) (ph) on wanting to hold onto the moment. And just refusing to permit some kind of a real dole existings to come along. That if I couldn't in some - I just felt like what I still feel like that there's somehow there's got to be some basic changes in me ... to make the rest of the ones that. And if I can't change which I decided then that I couldn't I don't want to be around myself. 


I mean other people you know are not deflight (ph) (sp?). I can make friends with other people ... male or female. And you know it's not an intolerable existence at all. It's just mediocre. And I just really can't stand that. And I don't know just I guess the last time I really (inaudible at 18:51) well to go back. Like when I woke in the hospital after this not the first day but like what my friend said to me was that you know we all have to die sometime and some people die sooner and so forth. But you know there just may be something that you may be glad that you're around for. And it may be a good thing to stay around ... even if it isn't all rosy or anything like that. And I believed him then. I sort of kept that kind of to keep me going. [19:33]


And I don't know about a month ago I was just visiting a friend in Chicago and I don't know why I got depressed. But I got really, really depressed. To the point of like really wanting to jump out of a 12 story window when I'm petrified of heights and the first time I really wasn't scared of heights. I really was you know I felt like jumping and strongly, strongly considered it. And it was really kind of the same thing in mind that okay I've lived I guess a year and two months or something since that episode. And during that time I really haven't done anything that I've been glad to be around for. I've just sort of existed and recovered from all of the troubles that kind of came out of last - of that particular spring. Not talking to my parents and that kind of thing. Really - the mess that I caused them. And I really haven't made any progress (ph), gains or strides or anything. It might just better be just as well if I go out and dive in you know.


COUNSELOR: Yeah it sounded like there was something about - you mentioned the word moment. There's something about that moment that was really (inaudible at 20:55) That you decided that it was going to be that kind of moment and the - all of the other stuff that was like a mediocre kind of way don't avail. It simply wasn't quite (inaudible at 21:06) for that. And that you knew you could keep from being mediocre. And that's at least how it sounded to me.


PATIENT: Yeah.


COUNSELOR: And that so far it still looks pretty gray.


PATIENT: Yeah.


COUNSELOR: To you.


PATIENT: That's right. I guess I'm just at the moment more than anything else investigating (ph) with that. Can I make it anything but gray?


COUNSELOR: Yeah. It was like you said I know I'm responsible for or at least in part for making it not mediocre.


PATIENT: Right.


COUNSELOR: But that's like that's very nice. That's actually that's a principle. And how do I begin to do that?


PATIENT: Yeah.


COUNSELOR: Thus far you've been or at least what I've heard you talk about and attending to other people. Other people who find that other people are saying what a mess you made for us. Other people in various ways. Focus your energies on there but nothing really changed for you. [22:11]


PATIENT: Yeah. I think I've (inaudible at 22:18)


COUNSELOR: Maybe that's because like I was pulling some stuff together that you really didn't say it quite in that way. What I heard you saying was I've been snowed under with this work and I'm reading in that you're trying to get assignments done or fix incompletes. And you just something about atoning to my parents. And oh course it sounded like you've really been a kind of a mess there maybe. And it's just struck me like well those are all assignments that are delivered from people outside you and don't do much for you. Or it sounded like those aren't the kinds of things you're working for. Telling somebody you're sorry. Making it up to them. 


PATIENT: Yeah. Well I mean that's kind of like the past year and a half has been since then. 


COUNSELOR: Yeah and you're saying it's a kind of that doesn't really give me any evidence on what my boyfriend said to me last (argument then) (ph). 


PATIENT: Right. And ... it - I'm just really beginning to wonder if ... I'm really capable of making a world in some way - approaches. Some of the ideas that I've already (inaudible at 23:36) they're all pretty vague. And basically I just keep getting hit in the head with the thoughts that I can't. And ... somehow the few things that I really want to do or really try to do just get knocked down. And I get really disturbed about them and not really try anything else. 


COUNSELOR: Yeah I was going to ask you if there'd been any times when you felt like you had tried to change something and do something and that you'd really been kind of slapped for that.


PATIENT: It ... I don't know. Just I guess the most recent thing was just like the one thing that I really wanted to get over this year was I really wanted to be (inaudible at 24:59) Because this is the kind of therapy that I really wanted to do. And I could have really counted on it all year. And kind of decided I ended up getting (inaudible at 25:14) And I'm going to be working full time the rest of the time I guess. And try to well maybe that's the one thing that I can get out (of is to go to New York) (ph) since I haven't gotten anything out of it in two years. And really don't have any motivation to make up my incompletes. Because I'm really not even sure when I will have a doctor here. Because I'm not even sure that I (inaudible at 25:36). And I felt well it could be kind of a redeeming thing. And so I didn't even try to come. And it was like I guess I had decided as a result of my working that maybe - which had also been really frustrating because I had been trying to do therapy and getting my (inaudible at 26:03). And I decided well if I can at least learn to be a good counselor then that will be something that I can do that I've wanted to do for a long time. And that maybe that all of this time I spent here was just completely (inaudible at 26:22).


COUNSELOR: Alright like that door was closed and you felt like that had little effect on you? [26:29]


PATIENT: I really wanted to be loved (ph). I don't know how - in what way. I mean I still feel that way. I just really want to take off and hitch hike across the country and see where I get. That kind of thing. I'm just ... forget trying to be a counselor even though I really thought it could be good. And ... just kind of ... somehow I think it's that I've really tried. I just ended up with everything turning out bad. I mean like ... like this spring I ended up ... I was working at the hospital and I ended up asking after about the first week I discovered it was a really bad program. And I knew that this (inaudible at 27:50) in trying to get some kind of decent physiological training. And I knew of a really, really good program in Massachusetts ... where my aunt lives. And I also knew that I was going to have to spend some time there this spring because my aunt is in really bad shape psychologically. And I had already gone home like about three times in from April until August to put her in various mental hospitals to keep her from killing herself.


And so I asked to be transferred. And it was like I had asked for the moon. And I was putting them through so much red tape I guess. It was all because of some will of mind other than the fact that I had actually had some desire to learn something. And then it turned out that while I was waiting to see if this went through my cousin died ... my aunt's son. And I had to leave like at 5:30 in the morning which means I didn't go into work that day. And I called in the next day. And she - my supervisor - said I was fired. I guess I had already caused them so much trouble that I had just not showed up. I mean I ended up leaving like because my family really needed me. My cousin's only daughter who happens to be a lot like me and think a lot like me. And I guess my cousin was kind of the only person that really was a really good person and really a sensitive person and an understanding kind of like from a ... kind of gotten through all my troubles with my aunt all last spring - this past spring. And her daughter didn't really have anyone to talk to I guess because her father is just a really cold person. And so I was kind of playing counselor to her I guess or best friend or something like that. I mean I'm keeping my aunt together and like we don't really - holding her at the funeral and keeping her from screaming and stuff like that. And ... I mean I was doing a good job as far as performing whatever roles were required of me being ... in trying to help and putting her into the (inaudible at 30:23) hospital in the living room and doing a whole bunch of stuff with her. But I mean as a result from it I ended up getting - I ended up staying in (inaudible at 30:33) like being really black listed as far as my work here. And.


[30:41]


COUNSELOR: You're being here in the department or whatever?


PATIENT: Well the courses that I was taking here were reading courses. And ... here in the center (ph) of like I got another job and another hospital (inaudible at 30:57). And but it's like alright prove yourself. You think you're really like a black sheep. And don't you dare ask for any kind of transfers, special privileges or anything else. 


COUNSELOR: Tell me. Let me check this out. I'm getting the feeling like you had one hell of a lot of stuff to do this summer. I mean you know things other than incompletes and feeling bad about your life and all that kind of thing. I'm wondering if you have the feeling that every time you ask for anything - support, knowledge, an opportunity to learn something - people just said no. And that you felt like left without absolutely no one but yourself to do all these things.


PATIENT: Pretty much.


COUNSELOR: And that like now you're not only drained but feel like it's not a question of sitting for a while and regrouping and stuff like that but just really defeated.


PATIENT: Yeah I think that's probably pretty true. I like I took preamps (ph) two weeks ago which is in human development (inaudible at 32:02).


COUNSELOR: Yeah.


PATIENT: And I'd also somehow managed to be maid of honor in one of my best - both of my best friends from college had gotten married this summer. And so I drive out west for their weddings. And some really just I guess just two weeks before (inaudible at 32:20) I drove back to be (inaudible at 32:22). And ... it's like I was kind of (inaudible at 32:28) ever since April it didn't start going bad either way. I really didn't know if I could make it through. And it's like the day before we get our preamps (ph) questions to start writing on that I found out that I didn't get into (inaudible at 32:46). And it was kind of deciding what was all of it for? And why was I even going on (inaudible at 32:56) [32:57]


COUNSELOR: Like every refusal makes it look more ... well (sometimes it sounds think it's) (ph) impossible to do. It doesn't sound like just a matter of resources but also ask of the feeling well why try. Because like everybody is saying no, no you're a black sheep. You're...


PATIENT: Well it's I mean it must be something in the way that I do things. It comes across that way like this hospital thing. I had - what had happened was when I went home in August. My aunt was bad then. I didn't know how bad she'd be. I went home to move all of her stuff out of the house to my father's in Connecticut. And because she was going to be evicted and she was going to have to move the first of September. But I didn't start work (inaudible at 33:42) the 15th of July so I wanted to get all of my stuff moved so I could be back in New York and wouldn't have to leave. And when I was home then she was really bad so I thought well - then - she had been in the hospital there which is how I knew about it. And I knew it was a really good set-up and I wanted to learn more about it. And just kind of the idea dawned on me. What if I can work in the hospital here and then I don't have to keep commuting back and forth. Because it was a really long drive and it really did take a lot out of me. And so I called a guy that was in charge there and I told him what my situation was and that I really liked his program. That I had seen it and (inaudible at 34:24) working there. And he said fine. If I could work it out in Chicago. And I though gee that's great. And then when I asked in Chicago and they started calling back and forth, everybody got everything mixed up. And somehow


COUNSELOR: (So you went) (ph) back to there or what you were asking? [34:47]


PATIENT: No. The fact of it and that this guy didn't really have a firm training program that went along the same way as the other person's training program. And I had already had a (inaudible at 34:59) clerkship in Chicago but they didn't know that. So they didn't know that I had training and that I could in fact be in a situation without strict supervision. And basically what came across was what I got from my supervisor at the hospital here that eventually fired me was that I was being very manipulative. And I had no right to try to make this whole system change just for me. And I mean when I done it I didn't see it as that way at all. I seen it just like an opportunity but maybe I could take advantage.


COUNSELOR: So you're saying as far as you know there wasn't anything manipulative in your efforts. But I'm wondering are you thinking about either some way that you present yourself or underlying motivations or something like that?


PATIENT: I'm wondering if that's how I must be coming across. Because ... and it scared me because my grandparents are alcoholics and have been ever since my aunt and aunt were little and fantastically manipulative, lying, everything under the sun. And I've since learned that my aunt is the same way. Absolutely horribly so and just has in the last six months - eight months now gone really down hill and yet has really been emotionally disturbed ever since I was a kid. But I don't know it then. And but recently has become an alcoholic and depressive and suicidal and everything else to boot. And has just really used her friends something terrible ... which when I see that in her makes me even more scared of it. [36:57]


COUNSELOR: Do you - let's see I'm not sure if this is a (picking nothing type a thing that) (ph). Is there something in myself that you really can see and point to that makes you feel that way? Or is there something like no matter how - what you're scientific belief is that things get transmitted or not it's like there's precedence for it and you're afraid that some of it rubbed off on you? In other words do you see anything that you thinks that way or are you just are you saying I'm just afraid they are in some way?


PATIENT: I see things that I don't think very honestly can be - are that way. But I also see things that people I mean people have used that word. That was the only time they have ever used it was when (inaudible at 37:41)


COUNSELOR: Manipulative? Yeah.


PATIENT: And you know I'm scared that maybe that is the way I am. And I'm frightful scared that I'll turn out like them. I mean I don't think I will. I think I'm a (little tolerable) (ph) than she is. And I'm a lot more level headed than she is. But I've also got all of her emotional side. Which is what? [38:16]


COUNSELOR: You've got what? 


PATIENT: I've got all of her emotional side which is I mean romanticism and so forth that really screws me up. 


COUNSELOR: Yeah you're enough like her yourself and you - I would gather anyway seen somebody go down hill really almost before your very eyes. Really does bad things I think. 


PATIENT: Yeah. 


COUNSELOR: And like that it's almost like a constant reminder or if it scares you at all you've got on going things to make you worry about. Go ahead I can (inaudible at 38:47)


PATIENT: I just think like they have at the hospital they have community meetings and I was (inaudible at 38:55) at the meetings like why are you here? And my aunt would be like lying like anything saying she had no reason to be here. And there was nothing wrong with her and so forth. And her boyfriend and I would say in fact that there was. And then when we would say you know give some evidence for some really bizarre things that she'd done as to why we brought her there then she would come back just fantastically vindictive and say ok but you're the reason that I'm here. And you don't stay home and take care of me and you tried to kill yourself last year. And ever since then I've been so upset. I haven't been able to do anything.


COUNSELOR: Yeah (inaudible at 39:33)


PATIENT: And so in effect she's saying I'm the one that should be in that hospital and not her. I'm the one that's responsible for everything that's wrong with her. 


COUNSELOR: I'm sure that's like really upsetting and all that kind of stuff but like can you say what hearing her say is like? What does that do to you when she says that? What are all of the things that go through your head?


PATIENT: Well when I'm with her now before I use to be really emotional but now I'm like I have to be like a professional. I mean it's like she's my patient or she's a little girl. And I have to show - I show absolutely no emotion. And I talk to her in a like she was absolutely a dog sometimes. Say (look at) (ph) auntie get in that car - I'm going to carry you into that car. Because she'll hit me and kick me and everything else and you end up you know that's how you have to treat her. And so in meetings like this she - that's another thing she's a radio commentator and a newspaper report and she's very, very eloquent. And I'm not. And so things that she says sound fantastically convincing. And I know I can't get upset because then that just proves that somehow I'm the one that's emotional. And that she's right. And so it's like trying my damnedness (sp?) not to feel at all. And doing a pretty good job of it until she says something like that and unfortunately like that is really my weak point. And I just like ... [41:11]


COUNSELOR: About being unstable or the cause or is that what you meant?


PATIENT: Myself being unstable. Myself having tried to kill myself. It being none of their business. And it showing no relationship to whether or not I am stable and capable of evaluating her situation and stuff like that. And in a sense I mean I would be. I'm just completely calm and everything else. But in a sense I'm like really crying and stuff. Because I know in a sense in a sense she gets to me or at least the first time she did it - she's done it a couple of times since then and it hasn't been so bad. It's like saying yeah - like I agree with her except I don't let her know that. That in fact maybe I am this really horrible person and maybe I shouldn't be around at all. And maybe I am basically weak.


COUNSELOR: And like she really feeds in - there's something about family members that like they at least for me they can get to you in a way nobody else can. Say like saying someone saying the same thing it might hurt but there's something about that just gets you in the most vital spots you could possibly get you.


PATIENT: Yeah.


COUNSELOR: Like really trying to put that effect on you.


PATIENT: Yeah.


COUNSELOR: And you're left I guess keeping - then keeping that all to yourself at the time.


PATIENT: Yeah.


COUNSELOR: But it takes its toll. It feeds into the other things that you do.


PATIENT: Exactly. I mean it's ... it's like in a sense it's something that is the last thing that I want brought up again and made into my current self. It's a part of me that I don't want to remember because I want to be a different kind of person. 


COUNSELOR: Oh okay. Okay that's like a ... hold on a second - stigma type thing.


PATIENT: Yeah it is.


COUNSELOR: Do you like to think that it could be different? That everything that gets brought up it makes you wonder.


PATIENT: Yeah.


COUNSELOR: Or it makes it hang like a sign on you that says I'm a whatever. [43:17]


PATIENT: Yeah I do. And what were you going to ask me? (inaudible at 43:33)


COUNSELOR: I'm not sure why I wanted to know but I guess I was going to ask you are you the person primarily responsible for your aunt? I don't mean in a financial way but like ...


PATIENT: I'm the only person. Her - She's not married. She's got a boyfriend that's really screwed up. And he's married and can't take total responsibility for her. She has no responsible children. 


COUNSELOR: Okay.


PATIENT: Her aunt is an alcoholic and in an institution. She's got another sister in Texas and a brother in Texas that don't care about her. And the only brother that she was close to was the one that died. And who in fact himself knew that he had a heart condition and refused to talk to her after this past Easter when she called him and tried to kill herself and so upset him that he realized that he'd kill himself if he paid any more attention to her. And so he would he would be my refuge whenever I went up there. But he wouldn't see her himself to talk to her.


COUNSELOR: Okay so you are faced with really being - well I don't know sounds like being trained for sole responsibility for something that's very hard. Very, very hard for you. And like that that sounds like that's a fixed thing in your life. Is that so or is there some?


PATIENT: Yeah. Yeah it is. And what's happened it's like after making about three trips home to put her in hospitals - I've put her in every mental hospital in the state to try to keep her from killing herself. And because she'd stay at home and wouldn't eat. And that wouldn't help her mental outlook. So she couldn't get that. And they've pretty much all kicked her out and said she's not willing to help herself we won't take her. And so now I just there's nothing really else that I can do. Doesn't do me any good to go home. And it's really a helpless feeling that she might she I think tried to kill herself last week. I found like the Monday or Tuesday the day I turned my prelim exam in that I'm so glad nobody called me Sunday. Because it happened Sunday which was the day I was rewriting all four of my questions and typing them and couldn't have turned it in if she had called or if a friend of hers would've called. But she had driven home from a friends a different route going taking an especially long route that went down a long hill knowing that her car didn't have any brakes on it. Or haven't been told her car (inaudible at 45:58) brakes on it and naturally the car smashed into a telephone pole could really have killed her. Didn't have her seat belt on. And she finally called me Tuesday. She was okay. I guess had had a slight concussion or something like that. Just very minor. And just crying into the phone that everything was wrong. [46:21]


COUNSELOR: Did she call on you and ask you come home? And why don't you do for me unless ...


PATIENT: She does in that in a sense. She used to call and say I'm going to kill myself. And I would come home and stay. And she knows that that won't work now because I'll just call her friend and tell her friend to bring her to the hospital. Or she knows if I do come home that I'm just going to put her in the hospital. And I'm not going to see her. I'm not going to visit with her which is what she was asking for at first ... was for visits. Now she wants money. There's an estate that she inherited from her father that she said that she was going to give to me which I wouldn't take. But we ended - she ended up putting it in my savings account. And I ended up taking it out and giving it back to her. So she put it in a joint savings account in both of our names. And I guess I was home and at some point when she was still trying to kill herself and her friend works in the bank where this money was deposited. And it's only like - it was 3300 dollars and it's down to about (15 or so) (ph). I don't know what she spent it on but she just keeps wanting to spend it on little things. Her friend works in a bank and sort of keeps track of when she withdraws and when she takes it out and told me that she's - that I should really watch it. That aunt keeps threatening to or talking when she gets depressed about taking all of the money and going and dying in England and she wants to die. And so at that point I decided she wasn't capable of handling the money so I took it all out and put it in my own account. And now she's calling me very irrationally. She's not - she's lost her job. She'd lost this before the accident and evidently just stayed around the house and didn't do anything. Didn't do anything looking for a new job and probably drank most of the time. And now she doesn't have a car. And I asked her well why didn't the insurance cover it? And she well it didn't quite cover it. And I said do you mean this is - she called me at 7 o'clock yesterday morning to tell me this. That she needed - crying into the phone that she needed money for a new car. She could barely talk. She's using tranquilizers and alcohol combination. [48:29]


COUNSELOR: Yeah.


PATIENT: And I said well why couldn't you get a used car? You don't have to get a new car. And that hadn't been thought of. And I said at this point auntie you're in no condition to be driving anyway. And I asked her if she'd gone to a hospital or a doctor or psychiatrist or an Alcoholic Anonymous meeting or anything else and she said no. And I said until you start going to those things I'm not going to give you any money. And it's really a hard thing because there I am holding her money. And in a sense she's entitled to it. And in another sense if I give it to her I know damn well she's going to stay home and drink it all up. And it's going to be no incentive for her to get a job. And it - I end up I do - I've gotten so I do very beautifully on the phone. I'm sure my roommates think I'm this awful ogre and (agitator) (ph).


COUNSELOR: Yeah. Yeah.


PATIENT: Because I just talk to her like I'm sorry aunt I'm not going to give you any money. You go out and get yourself a job. I don't care if you almost killed yourself the other day. And you will get yourself - if you still - if the doctor says you still need some rest you get yourself checked back into the hospital where they'll feed you a decent meal. It won't cost any money. And then get yourself presentable so you can go out and look for a job. And she's gotten plenty of calls to get any job she wants.


COUNSELOR: That sounds like that ... that sounds just like it's the only way you've arrived at to be able to survive and handle it. But it takes a terrible toll to maintain that kind of control.


PATIENT: When she called me Sunday or Tuesday night or something to first tell me about the accident and then she asked for money to pay some of her old hospital bills which had been hanging around (inaudible at 50:08) she hadn't paid on it. It's very irrational but somehow she wanted money. That's when I found out she'd lost her job and almost killed herself. And I don't know what else I found out. I did yeah I talked to her for about an hour. And I was fine on the phone. I had no trouble at all but when I got off the phone I was so depressed. And it's like I needed somebody to talk to so badly just to get it out of my system. And my - the current guy I'm dating is staying where I'm living at because he doesn't have a place to live. And so I just asked him if he would go for a walk with me and talk. It turns out he is just really so sick of hearing about my aunt that he just didn't want to. [50:49]


COUNSELOR: Yeah.


PATIENT: And I just really blew up. I just like if you really can't talk or can't be any support at all. And it wasn't so much in anger as just like maybe being hurt that somebody that I really cared about wasn't the kind of person that I considered to be what an ideal person should be.


COUNSELOR: Yeah.


PATIENT: Somebody that is going to be there ... if you need them.


COUNSELOR: Yeah like that was another - that was somebody that you thought might be a support and he definitely took himself out of the picture.


PATIENT: Yeah. I mean he - he's I thought that's been another problem since I lived to New York because I really don't have that many close friends. And he's kind of the only support that I have. And ...


COUNSELOR: Well it sounds true. Like you felt reluctant to use people that way or talk to them. I didn't mean use - manipulate ...


PATIENT: Yeah.


COUNSELOR: But to confide in them that way and this was another indication that you better not do that if you want ...


PATIENT: Right.


COUNSELOR: A relationship or your relationship is kind of ...


PATIENT: Yeah.


COUNSELOR: What's the word ... circumscribed. We're going to have to stop for today. 


PATIENT: Yeah.


COUNSELOR: Let's see ... (inaudible at 52:01) (coughing) Perception is to quality. You said that you've - that there wasn't any possibility for you to come during the day. Is that the case pretty much?


PATIENT: Yeah. I work all day every day. The early - actually the earliest day that I could come would be like at 5 o'clock on Tuesday s.


COUNSELOR: (That's some day) (ph).


PATIENT: I come back here early Tuesday because I have a class from three to five. 


COUNSELOR: Okay. I'd like to make the next appointment for that time. That happens to be a good evening. I was. Let's see. And I don't know about - usually we would schedule two appointments a week. I don't - I'll have to see when the other one can be. Do you have any feelings about whether you want it at two or one by the way? You do have a say in that. [52:45]


PATIENT: I would just as soon it be two. I think for now. Maybe I'll change my mind.


COUNSELOR: Okay. One other thing I wanted to say and like I - I guess it's like in a sense much too early for me to say something like this in the sense that we don't know each other very well. But I would be very willing for you to try at least try this. When some phone call like that comes up to either call and see if you wanted to come in that day or to call up and talk for awhile about it. Because like that's something that maybe not only might be nice for you for a change but it also would be good for the therapy you're in. Something to it or something like that. But I surely don't expect you to feel really comfortable about doing that right away. But I do (inaudible at 53:32)


PATIENT: Okay. Well let's see what happens.


COUNSELOR: Okay.


PATIENT: Okay.


COUNSELOR: I'll tell you one reason why I'm saying that like I've (gone out on the ropes) (ph) with my family and I've never run across (a naughtier problem) (ph) in my life. And like it's very hard. Something like people don't want to hear about always and it's hell to watch them. And it kind of hurts me to hear you (flunking) (ph) about that. Where it didn't.


PATIENT: Well part of it's like my aunt grew up living with this alcoholic and she blames all of her problems and all on my grandaunt. And I don't want to go through life and have to tell my kids and nieces/nephews my family is responsible for all my problems or I had a lousy childhood. And it's all because of her. 


COUNSELOR: Yeah.


PATIENT: And I don't want to get that feeling towards her. 


COUNSELOR: Yeah. Yeah and it's like if you have - my way of looking at that would be if you've got resentments about them let's get it over with now so you can deal with her and not pass them onto your kids. I mean so it doesn't mess up other kinds of relationships you have or something like that. Okay. Okay. Then I'll see you Tuesday at five.


PATIENT: Okay. 


COUNSELOR: Okay.


PATIENT: Thank you very much.


COUNSELOR: You bet.


PATIENT: Bye.


COUNSELOR: See you later.


PATIENT: Okay.


END TRANSCRIPT
