TRANSCRIPT OF AUDIO FILE:
__________________________________________________________________________________
BEGIN TRANSCRIPT:
COUNSELOR: ...24-006, Interview Number 12.
PATIENT: Somehow that's just something like really specific that's been waiting (ph) down for like four days or something like that, it's really impossible to see it here. [silence from 0:00:56.2 to 0:01:57.4] Partly I guess I haven't defined the situation of talking to you well enough to like really feel comfortable coming and just starting to talk about something.
COUNSELOR: Do you mean it's not clear enough for you, what you're doing here almost? It's kind of a crude way of saying it.
PATIENT: I don't know [inaudible at 0:02:22.4]... Kind of a lot of things, like I was truly realizing to try and venture in the building and I just really didn't want to talk and I really had a strong resistance to it. That's when I was at Julian's. [audio blip at 0:03:05.7]
COUNSELOR: Right. Can I call you back around, well sometime this evening? No, I didn't. When I got over there, there was one box for you and one box for me that I saw and there might have been a second box for you but all those other ones were gone. No, I haven't touched the box because I saw, when I saw it, did you talk to Ted? With Ted? Oh, okay, so you've talked to him. Would you call me when you know what's in that and with my stuff? Okay. Bye. Sorry about that. I thought... 
PATIENT: It's all right.
COUNSELOR: ...I was going to get my output today and I didn't.
PATIENT: What's output?
COUNSELOR: A computer printout... 
PATIENT: Oh.
COUNSELOR: ...that I'm expecting to get.
PATIENT: Oh.
COUNSELOR: And like we've got this guy that's running four pieces of it and Ted's came out but mine didn't and one other person's didn't.
PATIENT: Oh.
COUNSELOR: Like I don't know. It makes me, this topic makes me wonder like, I asked you something on the phone yesterday and it just wasn't what I wanted to ask but I didn't know what it was. And I realized later what I wanted to find out was something like, is this one of those days, what, is it that you have too much to do and don't feel you can get here or is one of those days and you don't want to talk and would feel better if you didn't come? And that kind of concerned me. I wished I'd gotten to say it at the time.
PATIENT: Yeah, well, it was a combination, I mean, it was really both. It was like, I think it was really mostly getting really, it was because I was so bogged down in things to do that I really felt like I couldn't talk. Because I had kind of felt yesterday morning that I could, and it was only when I got really, I felt like I would always be worrying about all the things that I need to race home to do.
COUNSELOR: Tell me what do you do?
PATIENT: Put (ph) I don't know what you want me to say?
COUNSELOR: Okay, what, today is different, it's more just a clear case of... 
PATIENT: Well, I hadn't really thought of it that way. Today is partly, like when will you go up, pressure cook things, what was the date today and none of them very important.
COUNSELOR: But at the same time, all pressured to do things? [0:05:42.9]
PATIENT: Yeah, it was something like that, yeah. I don't know. Somehow it's like, all these little areas, these little topics are things that I'm moon (ph) by about keep coming back up and there seems to be kind of nothing that I can do to get rid of them, like once and for all. I mean like, last night I couldn't go to sleep because I was just a nervous wreck and I don't know exactly why I was a nervous wreck. Some of it was pressure to do things. Some of it was because I stayed in bed half the day, partly to catch up on sleep, the first several hours to catch up on sleep. Those last several hours was because, I don't know why, except that I probably didn't want to face getting up because I really didn't have anything to do that I wanted to do, and I had too many things to do than I could actually ever get done if I really sat down and did them. Anyway, I didn't really think about it, I just didn't want to get up and then when I did I was really under a lot of pressure. And it's like a completely, a more of this defused kind of anxiety and what comes, I get this tremendous knot in the middle of my stomach and I...I end up in my room except putting away just all sorts of other reasons. And so we just sort of got up and I painted dog food cans to decorate, to put things in mostly. (chuckling) And it kind of is just something to do that didn't take any concentration and maybe would make me relax, since he just would have sat there and talked and I mean, that helped a little bit but not, in some ways it made it worse. And like then my boyfriend came at like two in the morning and he's been borrowing my car because he's got a lot of work to do late and supposedly working out in Buffalo, because he's been bringing it back at like 4:30 in the morning, at which point I will be very sound asleep. And so a big thing like, I mean, one way he really can't take me is if I'm really nervous and I really want to talk or something like that, and he's real tired and I'm really putting pressure on him to talk. And so last night for the first time in three days, when he got home before I'd gone to bed, I was bound and determined I was going to go back to sleep and not be nervous so I could stay up half the night. So one thing I knew I'd be a wreck today when I really had a lot of stuff to do and I'd have to work all day. And I had an interview this morning that I really wanted to be awake for. And like, I don't know, I guess like it took me about an hour to settle down again after I'd gone to bed and I mean, in a sense I've been like that since I was a kid, off and on. And when I'm not like that, which it's usually greater or lesser degrees of it, rather than it ever being completely gone, and...I can't find a basis for it. [0:09:16.2] I know partly I was upset because my mother called last time and she was, it was like her first day out of the hospital and she was really drunk and she was going to kill herself and she couldn't live because her lover (ph) had left her, just couldn't stand her drinking and so forth. I'm surprised he put up with it as long as he did. And in a lot of ways, I was talking to her like I would talk to me. I mean, I'm not an alcoholic or anything like that but it really, it frightened me and like, she sounded like a very, very, very exaggerated form of me. And I feel I was not about to sit there and think about it because I just told her she'd better get herself straightened out or nobody would want anything to do with her. And, which is in a sense the way I feel and the kind of messages that I keep getting from my boyfriend. And I guess and...this weekend, like I kind of think I could again and got sad again, which was the continuation of like last week, when I said that things were really good and then he laughed and I couldn't do (ph) with something about it. And so I kind of tried and just Saturday night I guess, to tell him what I felt or what I'd been feeling, and he really couldn't take it. And we ended up just kind of, like with him practically leaving or Joe practically telling, and with me telling him to go at one point because I couldn't take it. And just complete blocking and not being heard. And one of the things that I just remember really strongly, his coming out of that with the, he could never really feel close to me and never really trust me because he always felt like he might say the wrong thing and he was not, I mean, it's not he...he felt responsible for whatever I did. And...I told him that he wasn't. That I had complete control over what I did, which is true, and I mean, that doesn't exactly make a lot of difference. [0:12:06.8] But, I mean, in fact I was saying like, you have to trust me in order for me, to help me be strong kind of. And at the same time he was saying that he could never trust me until I was completely strong and there's no chance whatsoever of my even thinking about doing anything to myself. And I don't know, I felt really, bad about that because it's like in some, and like I could tell him, "Look, I don't feel that way and I haven't felt that way, weeks or something like that." Well actually, it was longer than that. And that, "I could take care of myself." And he said, well, he couldn't believe that. And then in a sense, there was no way that I could really get out of my past and that, that had done too much to him. And I know a long time now, I just put my money, consider my only want now. Along the same day and like one of the things my roommate mentioned last night, she was just talking about problems she was having with this particular boyfriend of hers, and she started quoting to me a passage from the New Testament that I loved. And...she mentioned it to me by verse and chapter and all of her ideas now, which seemed natural. And then it just came back to me, like the last time I really remember hearing that read was, like my father read that in his motel room that, like the day before he started, an hour before he left I guess, after he'd come down when I tried to kill myself. And we hadn't really talked at all and that was kind of his way of expressing what he felt. And it like really, really, really hit me last night when she said that. It was like I just had this really mixed (ph) vague feeling. Like some how that was really a disturbing thing to me, suddenly [inaudible at 0:14:53.9]... 
COUNSELOR: Because of when it happened? Is that what you mean, of when it was brought up for you last time?
PATIENT: Well, of when it was brought up and of the tremendous emotional feelings that was involved in it. And kind of, I don't know. I don't know what I feel about it. Whether it's guilt, whether it's shame for what I did to my father. I mean, like similarly (ph), really don't care at all about what that did to my mother but I really do care about what it did to my father. And his, I don't know whether it's because it has affected his opinion of me ever since and the fact that he worries about me ever since. Whether that confirms his suspicions that I was really, I don't know, that I really couldn't make it on my own, kind of. I really don't know. But it's kind of something that I really haven't gotten over.
COUNSELOR: And just hearing that passage had a tremendous impact on you, like you didn't even know what it was at first and that it was very [inaudible at 0:16:39.5]... 
PATIENT: Like I would never have thought of it in connection with that episode at all. I'd really forgotten what he had read until she started quoting parts of it last night and I could just hear him reading it to me. And I know it wasn't, I mean, that was, it's kind of like all these areas that I don't know how to work through.
COUNSELOR: With something that happened in that situation, like it brought up something that you haven't thought about in a while and you're thinking now, "Oh my God, that's not solved either." And you're kind of overwhelmed with all the procedures in terms of experience that you feel you still have to work on?
PATIENT: Something like that, yeah. I know, like I know that's not false and I've fell (ph) for some intentions about but I guess I didn't realize how strongly I still felt about it.
COUNSELOR: You don't know if the intensity of your reacting to that history got you, rather than the content it's almost like? No?
PATIENT: What do you mean?
COUNSELOR: What I was wondering about was like, the fact that you had such a strong reaction to that passage, that was kind of what got to you, rather than just the content of it? It's just a strange... 
PATIENT: Oh, no, that wasn't the content of the passage at all. I mean, while it was in some sense, the passage being about love and the problem being my own relationships with other people. It certainly involved that very strongly. But I'm, it was the relationship of that passage to before, it's the only time it made sense. And I mean, I never did get that sense that, with a kind of a [inaudible at 0:19:03.7]... like just kind of added to everything else. And... I can remember I guess Tuesday morning also, I kind of know the reason I didn't get up was that, that I had this really, not bad dream but it was sort of bad, and that it was about this girl that I grew up with. I'd just see her crying (ph), within the last year gotten married and had a baby. And like I guess I told you that I hadn't written to her since. I haven't written to her since she told me about, that she was expecting a baby. And I don't know, it was like in the dream. First when we were, I don't know, we were going to go traveling together or something like that, and we were like we used to be at times...friends. And then I realized she wasn't, when we were going to go traveling at all, if she was married and settled down [inaudible at 0:20:50.7]... and she had this baby to take care of. And I knew, in a sense it was like some how she hadn't taken care of it right or something like that, and I just wanted to take it so badly. And I mean, I know it's because I'm only so really envious of her that I haven't been able to write to her. And, I kind of don't know really what brought that up, except that, well, I do, there's been a few things the last few days. But like at where I was working, we were trying to get this patient to play a realistic (ph) role. So we do this other psychology, training your mind, has been working with and taking various roles. And so we two had taken turns being a patient and getting the patient to read us and to try to draw us out in group discussions. And so we sort of built a role for ourselves. I sort of developed, I was, I don't know. I had developed this role with this patient that's been sort of modeled after a patient that I had, except that I ended up incorporating, like all of my worse side into it. It was very easy to do I found out. And it was kind of really informative, as far as, because they...of course, reacted to me as play acting and were fantastically hostile to me because I was a whinny, shy person that wasn't about to talk, one that really was afraid of all people because she was sure that they didn't like her and stuff like that, and so she wasn't going to talk to them. [0:22:57.4] And...God, I was, it was like I really over did it in a lot of ways because I was trying a connotation (ph). But in some ways I got some really good feedback as far as how I'm kind of lost when I'm at my really worst. Warring (ph) withdrawn and don't want to speak to anybody kind of sitting (ph). And anyway, one of the things that came out, I played this role of a person that's like 30 years old but had been a teacher and quit because she couldn't talk to her fellow teachers and supervisor. I guess she had been student teaching, I don't know. I mean I just, I hadn't, I'd planned on this very vaguely now, it's been like just really developing this discussion that they were asking questions. And kind of what turned out was that, like I really like to keep [in a sense that's she's really like me] but I didn't like anybody my own age or anybody who's older than I was and I didn't get along with anyone, and as a result I couldn't hold down a job. And...one thing, like one thing they really noticed was, like all of this maternal instinct, which I hadn't believed in emphasizing so much. I kind of just emphasized that the kids weren't a threat to me because, well, that I liked the kids because they weren't a threat to me. But I realized that in a sense I was really giving off this feeling, like that I really, really liked kids and I really, really wanted kids.
COUNSELOR: And that was not a part of the role so much as coming from you, you're saying?
PATIENT: Yeah. Well, I hadn't planned on it being a part of the role. I mean, it was just something that they picked up in what I was saying, not knowing of course, what I had planned on all of the sudden. And I don't know, but it's something that I really haven't straightened out. And it's really funny because, like I've got a roommate now that's just scared as hell that she may have gotten, ended up getting pregnant. And she's...pretty sure that she didn't but at the same time she obviously (ph) did. And then...at one point, I mean, when it started and I really, really sympathized with her. And another point is I'm really envious as hell and I really have trouble relating to her. Like I mean I don't [or if it were ever went to her okay.] (ph) [0:25:58.6] And, I mean, she thinks that I'm having trouble, talking to me about it I mean.
COUNSELOR: But it's like really a loaded interaction for you because you embody some sort of conflict [it kind of sounds like?] (ph)
PATIENT: Yeah.
COUNSELOR: Now that's a good critical (ph) way of putting it?
PATIENT: Something like that. (chuckling)
COUNSELOR: Like, I guess I'll have to grudgingly admit that some critical terms are okay.
PATIENT: Yeah.
COUNSELOR: Or it's just when the phrase comes out like that, I instantly don't like it because the idea doesn't sound too much like... 
PATIENT: You know, I'm talking to feel the alternative. So I [inaudible at 0:26:39.5]... myself on them, especially when I'm out talking to [inaudible]... But I mean, I think on the rest of my life being uptight whenever...people talk about things like that.
COUNSELOR: But it's like saying, "Okay, given, I've got some problems, I've got conflicts, I've got things that make me uptight. But that's, at this point, I see that as really preventing me from relating to anybody who's related to those problems. And that just can't go on because I acted, I mean, there's too many people that will touch off those things for me." Or something?
PATIENT: Well, and I mean, you just don't block out half of life, Barbara, because I mean, anything, if you get screwed up enough about any problems, it's amazing the things that can relate to it that anybody will say. I mean, anything practically at all will relate to it.
COUNSELOR: You know what, it's just that made me think of the feeling I get about, when they describe some kinds of phobias, where the person gets afraid of more and more and more and more things, so finally they can't move out of their apartment at all. And that sort of sounded like psychologically you felt in that place, like you couldn't move out of yourself at all.
PATIENT: Yeah. Something like that. I mean, they're newly feelings once (ph).
COUNSELOR: And like really discouraged too I guess. And I guess I heard that at first or I sensed that at first when you came in today, that in addition there's sort of some resistance you had momentarily, just self discouraging or something?
PATIENT: Yeah, kind of. I mean, there really hasn't been any really big thing that's going on and it's like, all these things that I've just fell (ph) free. And unless...I really go into one of them or something like that, it doesn't mean [inaudible at 0:28:48.3]... because I guess one good talk that I'd really had with my boyfriend about a week ago was [inaudible]... so I mean, like before Thanksgiving was, like I really got into this for the first time. It was when we were talking about, like jobs and things that I wanted to do, [and I just wanted to do them and wanting to do things that I would like to do sometime.] (ph) [0:29:12.0] And then I really felt paralyzed before starting. And, I guess like one of the many things we're dealing with and like this came up in that. And that usually I can sort of avoid talking about it but mainly with him or actually with you, was like, one of the things that I really, really, really want is to have kids. I don't even care about getting married so much. Like I would really like to go on and adopt kids as single person, except that, that's really going to, I mean, that means that I've really got to be settled down and respectable and everything else, according to everybody else's eye. [0:30:14.5]
COUNSELOR: And so that feels like another pressure in some way, to get straight and get strong and I mean like, be with it or together or something?
PATIENT: Yeah. It's not, it's certainly a pressure that's strong on that kind of thing. But that, that pressure's there anyway no matter what I do.
COUNSELOR: I guess I was feeling like it was another thing that's denied to you unless you do something. Sort of something on that level and I don't know if that's how you... 
PATIENT: Yeah (ph), that's kind of true. Certainly unless I, I think I want to in a lot of ways, really live a kind of life, I mean, with truth and it's going to be incredible (ph) with me, because I'm not sure that I'm ready to settle down, it's really accepting, good citizen kind of member of society. I mean, there's too much that I have [against this side.] (ph) [0:31:24.6] People I think are okay but, I really think this society is really fucked up and I sort of don't see myself going down and joining any other (ph) church and doing miracle (ph) civic organization. It's tough to become a respectable person, kind of. I don't know. And also like, [silence from 0:32:17.0 to 0:32:42.8] I am not sure that I can really, I'm not sure how much I can settle down and how much I can decide what, not to travel and not to, provided I have even managed to do anything at all.
COUNSELOR: Which at this point you've done very, sort of doubtful and [at this time?] (ph) [0:33:08.6]
PATIENT: Yeah. Something like that.
COUNSELOR: Did that remark irritate you?
PATIENT: Well, only in the sense that, sort of, just that, I mean, that's kind of been well established and it bugs me that [what I've] (ph) been saying for a really long time.
COUNSELOR: So it just sounds so redundant or something?
PATIENT: Kind of.
COUNSELOR: So up here I can see your tone with, just dripping with, I guess, [overlapping voices at 0:33:41.1]... 
PATIENT: I am sorry.
COUNSELOR: ...what you've been talking about. No, there's nothing to be sorry for. I just sense it really stressing you along or something. [silence from 0:33:49.0 to 0:34:00.6] So I guess also maybe, like that's one of the things that's, at least I'm hearing, that's bugging you. And just like talking establishing these things and just keep talking about them and keep talking about them and keep talking about them and not seeing anywhere to go from, and like about every X number of weeks it comes up and hits you in the head, that feeling? I'm not sure but I guess I hear it every once in a while.
PATIENT: Kind of. [silence from 0:34:29.2 to 0:34:51.2] Like I really don't know how to get, I mean, how it does in myself sometimes, and become decent for Alvin through a whole bunch of bull (ph), and become what really realistic and really kind of all up and not worried about obstacles and stuff, rather than just getting so bogged down in there that I can't do anything.
COUNSELOR: It sounds like one of the things there is like, "How do I keep from..." Or just I heard, I think of it as, "How do I keep from being so sensitive to everything that the slightest little thing will throw me and throw me off or maybe a whole day and make me very upset and put me through a lot of psychological quirks (ph) here?" That sounds like one reason and I may be like, over playing (ph) the way you put it now, this at right now, but that's kind of one of the things it sounded like you were touching on. [silence from 0:36:07.6 to 0:36:42.7]
PATIENT: I mean, some how it has to amount to accepting some of the working through things rather than denying things, but I don't know how to do that. I don't know how to accept things without getting all uptight about them. I'll kind of get beyond them, so that they don't bother me. [silence from 0:37:14.2 to 0:37:31.9]
COUNSELOR: It's like you're saying, "I have no sense of getting, grappling with something and getting through with it and then going on. It's like every time something comes up I kind of, I have to sit down for a while or I get knocked down. And I don't think I'm going to get through it sometimes or I get very distracted."
PATIENT: I'll always get through it but certainly very distracted.
COUNSELOR: Right. You do always get through it but I, it sounded like when something comes up you don't have that feeling like, "This, is something I've got to deal with and then I'll go on." It's sort of like, yes, you do get through but maybe I'm making this to pick a point. I guess the main thing I was reacting to or thinking about was, it's like when something comes up it isn't just something to be dealt with, it's something that really throws you a lot, you feel?
PATIENT: Well, it's some, it's something...it's like, there's something to be dealt with that I can't deal with.
COUNSELOR: I just feel like close up or sort of shut off or far away in this hour enough?
PATIENT: [non-verbal, yes]
COUNSELOR: Do you know what that's from? Or I mean, is it like anything that you see me doing or something in you or something between us?
PATIENT: Kind of. [silence from 0:38:55.9 to 0:39:17.7] I just find it really hard to talk. [silence from 0:39:18.9 to 0:39:25.0] It's like I really feel like I ought to but I can't. [silence from 0:39:28.0 to 0:40:12.4] And it's like there's a whole bunch of feeling involved that I don't know what to do with.
COUNSELOR: A feeling that you're having right now? [silence from 0:40:17.8 to 0:40:41.8]
PATIENT: Because in a lot of ways there's really not much else to say. [silence from 0:40:44.6 to 0:40:52.7] I mean, there's just so many ways you can say it and re analyze it and it's still there. [silence from 0:40:58.4 to 0:41:19.1] And you're not dealing with it. [silence from 0:41:22.5 to 0:42:50.6] I don't know. Do you have any ideas how to forget the things or kind of things that gets beyond things? And doesn't get buried down?
COUNSELOR: I really wish I did. I guess why, what I'm reacting to most strongly is the feeling that this, it's just frustration of being stuck and not getting anywhere. I know you don't have any, I mean, like any perception of (ph) right now. [silence from 0:43:26.5 to 0:43:44.8] Are you inclined to feeling hopeless about going anywhere at all? Is this, or anywhere beyond where you are now? [silence from 0:43:50.7 to 0:44:07.7]
PATIENT: You mean getting beyond it right now or getting beyond it ever?
COUNSELOR: I don't know if I made that distinction things would get moving at all. [0:44:18.4 to 0:44:25.7]
PATIENT: I mean, some how I wonder, I have to feel it some how once they move. And it doesn't imply that one understands the way of, like sees any great hope to like way ahead.
COUNSELOR: I don't know whether, and I'm not sure where this, is coming from, but I just keep getting this strong feeling that you're very annoyed and I, or at least I keep feeling like I want to ask questions about that. And right now I was thinking like, are you, I was wondering if you were very annoyed with how therapy is going because of this feeling? But I guess I ought to check on the general thing or my general impression of that. Is that fair at all?
PATIENT: Gosh, no. [silence from 0:45:25.2 to 0:45:31.3] I don't think so, no, not exactly in a sense anyway. [silence from 0:45:35.3 to 0:45:46.6] Kind of resigned to it more than anything. Like I can't talk to anybody else if I can't talk with you (ph) either. [silence from 0:45:53.0 to 0:46:00.3] And that's not really, really annoying. [silence from 0:46:06.3 to 0:46:26.6] I know I've made it the continual analysis of how one is dealing, how one is discussing problems, mainly the format.
COUNSELOR: The format of this?
PATIENT: Analyzing the format, rather than getting anywhere on solving the problem or, I'm abling (ph) me kind of to see any other way of looking at the problem so that I can begin to approach it and solve it. I mean, I know you can't solve it and you can't really offer ways to solve it.
COUNSELOR: But there ought to be something we could do in here that would give you a new light on them or something? Like this just feels sort of stale and flat?
PATIENT: Something like that. [silence from 0:47:31.7 to 0:48:32.2] I don't know it, in a sense it reminds me of [inaudible]... go by within a month. And he spent the whole time practically, discussing how the group was relating as a group, how it was structured kind, and getting so hung up in structure, who talked to whom and why and what that indicated, that we never got any content across at all. We never got any feelings expressed. We were all sitting back analyzing stuff. And what we ended up doing was analyzing what we were analyzing because there was nothing else going on. I mean, no, we never got to know each other really as people. There was none of the kind of sensitivity awareness provoking kind of thing that or learning kind of thing that is theoretically supposed to come out of such a group. There was really no emotional impact at all and little emotional involvement. What was there was soon extinguished because it was tied to a place there.
COUNSELOR: Can you, are you saying you see some or feel some parallel with this situation? Can you say more about what it's like here? Because I'm a little mystified about how is it, is that some of it's manifested here? I mean, I can have a lot of fantasies about it but I don't know.
PATIENT: Just in analyzing the form by which we're communicating, rather than hearing things that are being said.
COUNSELOR: You think I'm not listening to what you say but saying you sound angry when you said that type thing? Ah! Okay. Why does that seem like, that seems like ignoring something that you're trying to say or [overlapping voices at 0:51:09.8]... 
PATIENT: It's not so much your saying, "You sounded angry when you said that." Because that can get at the content of what I'm saying. But also, I don't know. I can't remember of what I was going to say. [silence from 0:51:28.6 to 0:52:06.4] Like focusing on how hard it is for me to express myself or that I'm feeling very frustrated expressing myself or something like that. Well I mean, I could focus on that all day and I'd never say anything. And I could focus on that in the same way, whether I was talking about, I don't know, something really trivial and really unrelated to what I kind of need to get straightened about or something that was really important to me.
COUNSELOR: Okay, so from where you sit or my response to that kind of thing, you're saying it seems both, let's see if I've got this. Well, I guess maybe the thing that is inside, it seems like very good but very unimportant kind of thing and I keep hammering at it and it makes you feel more stuck or certainly like we're not getting to what you need to get to? Is that part of what you mean?
PATIENT: [non-verbal, yes]
COUNSELOR: Okay. That one kind of stumps me and I'll tell you why. I mean, there may be other things that have some validity but I guess, like one of the things I've been operating on, is in one of the things it seems like so hard and to happen to you so much and in that at least that I get concerned about and like maybe I get concerned where I shouldn't get concerned, is something about how it's hard to ask for what you need and hard to talk to people and in times when you have to sit with yourself alone, and I think I really do, have felt like that's really important. So I guess what you're saying sort of surprises me like or I guess I've been thinking that, well, that feels like on the same continuum. But you're saying that isn't or like I'm... 
PATIENT: Well, I mean, agreed it's hard to talk to people, but kind of talking about how hard it is to talk to people reinforces that feeling that it's, in fact, hard to talk to people.
COUNSELOR: Makes you more aware of it you mean?
PATIENT: It's like, yeah. Talking about how stuck I feel, wondering 'I sure do feel stuck' doesn't make me see any way to get out of it. I mean, I knew I was stuck or I wouldn't have come in here. [silence from 0:54:58.5 to 0:55:14.4] I don't know. [silence from 0:55:15.0 to 0:55:26.0] Like I really feel like, that I should be able to talk and the problem is, I can't talk here, I can't talk anywhere. But I also feel a tremendous barrier, like some how I really feel like whatever I'm saying isn't really going through and I don't know why.
COUNSELOR: You mean I'm not really hearing it in the way it needs to be heard or?
PATIENT: I think it's something like that. [silence from 0:56:00.5 to 0:56:14.8]
COUNSELOR: Are you saying in part, "Look lady, you're not making it any easier for me."?
PATIENT: Not really, because you're not really making it any harder for me. I mean, it's just sort of status quo.
COUNSELOR: Oh. Well, it sounds like it certainly, what's happening in here is making you feel worse about it or it's like underlining it to the point where it makes you just feel more stuck and more whatever?
PATIENT: Well, only in that I don't feel any less stuck, which you've kind of, I guess, saying one more source that might make me less stuck, isn't making me less stuck. [silence from 0:57:11.3 to 0:57:30.7]
COUNSELOR: Can you say anything more about the barrier? Like what it feels like or where it's from or who is doing what or?
PATIENT: I kind of think, I guess about as close as I can come to it is, is the analogy, the [inaudible at 0:57:56.6]... that, and not always, I mean, sometimes I don't feel it at all. But today anyway, I really felt like you were reflecting back to me, kind of superficial things that I was saying or the most obvious things that I was saying, and then in the sense of always bending (ph) or, and that it kind of got me confused. [silence from 0:58:31.7 to 0:58:44.8] And that there's more of a focus on structure on analysis, structural analysis of the interaction, than there is on just simply being able to talk and express the [inaudible at 0:59:11.9]... content.
COUNSELOR: I'm afraid that last thing, I wasn't sure what it meant?
PATIENT: I don't know how I can express it any other way.
COUNSELOR: I mean, I did hear like you feel pushed, forced in some way to talk about one way of being and you are talking about something else. Is that part or some constraint or something? [silence from 0:59:36.1 to 0:59:53.8]
PATIENT: I don't feel a very much, very much of a freedom to just express thoughts and feelings involved with this. That's not completely true. Sometimes I don't feel pressure because I feel really bogged down in having, like a structured, structural analysis [overlapping voices at 1:00:38.5]... 
COUNSELOR: Okay, and that's the part I don't get.
PATIENT: An analysis of the structure, process, format of the interaction reflected.
COUNSELOR: Well, now I'm beginning to feel like one, what you might be saying is, I keep letting in too much with how it hits me or something or how I sense us acting together or something?
PATIENT: [inaudible at 1:01:10.8]... like I guess I rather would like a little bit more of how it hits you but, I don't know, kind of how it hits you in more dimension. I really don't know how I else to express, kind of maybe we'll have to wait and find an example that's good [overlapping voices at 1:02:00.4]... 
COUNSELOR: Yeah, I was going to say, I don't want to like, worry it to death or something. I mean, it really sounds like there's something in there that if you could say what it is that could really be good for us to know or something. I know I'd really like to know and I know that because like that's, I mean, I feel one edge of it clearly, which is sort of puzzling to me about not feeling quite free to express thoughts and feelings and all, and I keep getting the sense of just having, let them be without getting them carrieried (ph) or...like how carriers shake things, that's just a feeling I get from how you were saying it. But anyway, I get that is, is that what it is that's happening or that seems to be obstructing or holding you back is what I'm real unclear about. So like it really would be neat if you could, if you think of anything else... 
PATIENT: Okay.
COUNSELOR: ...please try to say it because... Well, I guess we'd better stop.
PATIENT: Yeah. [1:03:08.8 - end of audio]
END TRANSCRIPT
