TRANSCRIPT OF AUDIO FILE:
______________________________________________________________________________
BEGIN TRANSCRIPT:
THERAPIST: Hi, come on in.
CLIENT: Thank you.
THERAPIST: I'm just going to turn up the air.
CLIENT: Yep. 
THERAPIST: Hi.
CLIENT: How are you? 
THERAPIST: Good, thank you. 
CLIENT: Well, it's just been very difficult the last couple of weeks. The more and more it gets closer to my cousin's wedding, the more and more irritated I'm getting because I told my parents I'm not going. I have no desire to go. But they keep telling me to bite the bullet and just go and, you know, turn the other cheek and put on a happy face and all this other garbage, and I'm like "I don't want to do that."
[00:01:04]
I have no desire to go. I don't want to go. I don't know what the big deal is. And it frustrates me because, you know, my dad is like "Well, you've got to bite the bullet and do it." I was like "What about the 20 years before when I bit the bullet and did all these things I didn't want to do when I did them for you?" "Well, your grandmother was alive," and that's what my point was. I go "Yeah, she was alive. Now she's not alive. Why do I have to do any of these things anymore?" 
And I understand it's going to hurt them and it's going to be a difficult time, but you know, like I mentioned, and it's just not registering with them that this is what I need. This is what I need as part of my healing to help myself out, is to not be around them.
[00:01:59]
Like I mentioned last time, there is a lot of hate, there's a lot of anger towards, you know, my aunt and my cousin and my uncle and, you know, I just—- I don't want to be associated with it where I have to bite my tongue and I can't say anything. And I told my parents, and they go "Well, what do you want us to tell people when they ask where you are?" I said "Don't tell them anything. If they ask why I'm not coming, give them my number. I'll tell them why I'm not going." 
And they're like "You know, we can't do that," blah blah blah and I'm like "Why can't you? Why are you going to make up a lie for me?" I don't want to make up lies. I don't—- you know, and I got in a real big argument with my mother because I said "If something happened to my aunt or my dad right now, I don't know if I'd want them around. I really don't know." I might tell them that they're not welcome.
[00:03:01]
I just—- I have a lot of anger built up, a lot of hatred for them built up. And to me, I don't care. It's like I said, you know, we talked about, I feel like I've been a bad guy all these years. What's this going to do to change who I am now? It's just very difficult for me to hear all these people just take, you know, the garbage that they give, they're doing. I'm tired of just, you know, keeping my mouth shut and putting on a happy face because deep down inside of me, it doesn't make me feel better. It doesn't help me moving forward with who I want to be. And it's frustrating because every time I try to express myself to my parents, to my siblings, it doesn't register.
[00:04:02]
And it's frustrating because I think that's kind of how we were brought up. Kind of how, you know, the routine I got in when I was a child is you just keep your mouth shut, you act like everything is okay, and you move forward. And for me, the older I'm getting, the more difficult I feel it is for me to move forward because I'm not happy. I don't want to shut up. I don't want to act like everything is okay. Everything is not okay. And unfortunately, you know, there's not going to be a time to talk about it. 
You know, my parents keep telling me "Well, wait until after we sell your grandmother's house, and then you can do whatever you want." I'm not waiting. I've waited too long. I've been waiting. And this is where I get irritated, and this where I get frustrated, to the point where I don't want to associate even with my parents at times.
[00:05:04]
Because, you know, don't tell me what I'm going to do. Don't tell me what I am doing. And the more and more that these interactions are happening, the more and more individually—- I told my mother the other day—- she goes "If I ever act like your grandmother, let me know." I go "Ma, if you ever do that, you'll never see me. If you do something where you really irritate me or hurt my girlfriend or hurt my children someday, you'll know because you'll never see me." That's just how I am. That's just how I deal with hurt, is avoidance. You know, just keeping to myself. 
[00:05:52]
I know I'm going to get off-topic, but with my eating problems, I snack and I eat when no one is looking. I feel more comfortable doing it by myself. If someone is coming, I'll rush to put it away because I don't want them seeing me eating. And I do usually do it, you know, in seclusion. I don't want people to see what I'm eating or how I'm eating or stuff like that. And for me, it's kind of like closure a little bit where I just sit in my kitchen, no one is around, and I just snack. I snack on not the best foods, but I feel the closure in the food that helps me, I guess, relax. It clears my mind. 
[00:06:57]
But then when someone catches me, I feel bad. You know, I don't know why I do that stuff and then I get even more down on myself. And for me it's very frustrating because when I am upset, when I am feeling overwhelmed and the anxiety is kicking in, the best thing for me that I want to do is I want to be alone. I want to seclude myself from everybody for however long, and I just like to indulge, you know. I indulge in either chips or cold cut meat or leftovers or whatever. But at times it was really bad, where I ate once for like 45 minutes, and I wasn't even—- it didn't even register.
[00:07:58]
You know, I wasn't even paying attention at the time. I was just eating just to eat. I'd eat one thing, go eat something else, go back and eat something else, go back and eat something else. It's not like I just ate one thing and was like okay, this is all I need, I need a snack. It was to a point where I was just eating and eating and eating. 
Then I'd wake up the next morning and feel sick and say to myself "Why did I eat all that garbage? Did I really need to eat that?" and then feel bad about myself. Then, you know, a couple days later if I'm feeling overwhelmed or stressed again, boom, I was right back at it. And for me, it's very difficult. It's very difficult because I know there are other things that I could be doing instead of eating. 
[00:08:54]
And for me, it's the alone time. It's being just alone with the food, makes me feel better, makes me feel good about myself. It is comforting in a way at that time, but afterwards it just enhances the stress and the anxiety and probably some of the depression that I had before. I think a lot of it had to do with me being depressed as a young kid, just being overweight and constantly being picked on and constantly having food around me really, you know, enabled me to just feel bad for myself and feel the hurt that I feel all the time. And for me growing up, it wasn't always easy. 
[00:09:59]
I mean, when I was in middle school, I used to bring and buy my lunch at school, and that was a tough time for me. I went to a private school. It was a new school, meeting new people, was very overwhelmed at the time because I was going out of my comfort zone, and I think the anxiety just got the most of me. And then I just went in to like—- I'd eat my lunch and I'd be full. But then I'd go into the cafeteria and I'd eat more, and I don't know why. It was like this one thing I can remember, all in middle school we used to have pizza Fridays. Everybody would eat like one slice, and I'd eat like four or five. 
THERAPIST: What does it feel like when you're eating?
[00:10:57]
CLIENT: It feels like there's nothing going on. I feel like I don't have any emotions. I don't have any, you know, any conscience when I'm eating. I just get in like a zone. I get in like a daze, and I just go. And sometimes I get like that now, you know, before I started eating right and eating the proper foods. 
You know, when I was younger I used to eat a lot of pizza, a lot of pasta. Even now, I say my one killer is mayonnaise. There's something about mayonnaise that—- it kills me because when I was younger, my mother said she caught me eating mayonnaise out of the jar. There's just something about those fattening foods and the taste of them that just—- it attracts me.
[00:11:59]
It attracts me, you know, without even thinking, and it bothers me. Like I truly do, I love pizza. And even when we make pizza at home, me and my girlfriend, instead of eating two slices, I'm still eating three and four. Even though, you know, I convince myself that it's better because it's homemade, it's not processed, I use low-fat dough, I use low-fat sauce, I use low-fat cheese, it's still four slices of pizza. And that's been a major problem for me. You know, that's been a problem for me since I was a kid, is my portions. I used to always eat until I was overfull, and my brain used to take a while for me to tell me I was full.
[00:13:01]
But I found a way when I lost all my weight before to trick my body. I get full faster, and I don't know if it's because I'm eating faster or what. But even now, I get to the point where my stomach is so full that I can't eat anymore. But when I get in the zone—- I know I'm full, I know I'm satisfied—- when I get in the zone, I'll eat that extra slice of pizza. I'll eat that extra piece of bread. I'll eat, you know, I'll take that extra spoon of mayonnaise. It's frustrating for me because in my mind, I know what's right. I know what's right. I know what I'm putting in my body. But when I'm anxious, when I'm stressed out, when I'm really kind of sad, it's the one thing I turn to.
[00:14:04]
Even now I turn—- you know, I still turn to food, but I'm not turning to the fattening foods. I'm not turning to the potato chips or the pretzels or the Doritos. I'm turning more to like carrot sticks. I eat Ritz crackers and I'll turn to the spreadable cheeses. You know, they're better for me, but I still have my hand going towards food.
THERAPIST: What do you think you're turning to them for?
CLIENT: Closure. Some kind of comfort. Because, you know, food would never tell me that I was bad. Food would never tell me that I was fat. Food was always there for me, and that's kind of like what I knew when I was a kid.
[00:15:01]
You know, if I was feeling down or feeling bad about myself, there would always be food that would be there. When I was a little kid, I would eat a whole bag of Doritos and think nothing of it. And it frustrated me now looking back on it, like why didn't my parents jump in and tell me "What are you doing? You're only allowed 10 Doritos" instead of eating 1,000 calories worth of Doritos. Why didn't my parents step in and say, you know, "We need to take control of you. We need to control your weight." 
And for me, it's very frustrating because I see what I went through. I see my struggle with the weight, and my girlfriend had the same problem. We both had weight problems. We're both struggling with weight, but God bless her, she is more strict on it.
[00:16:05]
Without her, I don't think I would've been able to change my eating habits to moving towards the carrot sticks or eating an apple when I need a snack, or eating grapes or strawberries or celery sticks. And it feels very good to have someone who is kind of on the same page as you in respect where we both want to lose weight, we both want to be healthy, but we're both—- we understand we need to eat, and we understand we need to make better choices eating. 
At home at my parents' house when I was growing up, there was always the Doritos and the potato chips and the microwave French fries and microwave pizzas option. 
[00:17:01]
Where now, in the home that I'm starting to establish with my girlfriend, it's more the fruits, the vegetables, the yogurts, the more nutritious stuff that's healthy for you. And for me, that's a good thing. That's a real good thing. 
Going back on the Fourth of July, we went to my parents' house for a cookout. It's like my girlfriend said, her and I both, we're like "Okay, we're going to have a cheat day" but the cheat day we had was horrible. We ate cake, we ate candy. We both ate like we never saw food before. And that night, we were both very sick from the amount of food that we ate and from the amount of sugar that we consumed.
[00:18:00]
And, you know, it's difficult because I say I'm not going to do this, I say I'm going to be good and I'm going to eat right. But my problem is when it's in front of me, I don't think. For example, we had steak, we had burgers, we had hot dogs, we had chicken, we had potato salad, bean salad, corn on the cob, zucchini. I think I ate everything, and I was very very overfull, and I felt very very upset with myself. So by feeling upset with myself, I went on and I ate chocolates and then I ate cake, which made me feel even worse about myself. 
[00:18:58]
And consciously I knew I shouldn't have done that. I knew I didn't need all that food. But, you know, if it's there—- and that's my problem. If something is in front of me, if something is staring me in the face just right there, I'll eat it even if I'm not hungry. I think that's my natural reaction, is "Oh, I want to try this." And that's how I was when I was a kid. If you put something in front of me, I'm going to eat it. That's what I struggle with. 
I mean, at home when I'm with my girlfriend, I cook just enough for the two of us. But whenever I go to my parents' for like Sunday dinner, there's always extra and there's always that temptation like "Well, why aren't you eating more?" from my parents. "I made all this food and you're not going to eat it?" "Well, I'm full."
[00:20:00]
And then they ask me why, and I force myself to eat more than what I want. And I don't feel good about it. I don't feel good about it. Because that's how I was brought up, is we always make—- I mean, even to this point, my mother always makes more and more than what's needed. 
We did an experiment when I was still living there. She's like "Okay, you cook for a week." So I went to the grocery store and I bought all the food for a week. It was all health food. They didn't like it because there were no leftovers and they were getting vegetables and salad and lean meats, and they just didn't like it. And my mother got upset with me. She's like "You can eat however you want when you're not here. But here, this is what we're going to eat." 
[00:20:59]
And that kind of hurt me a little bit because when you have children that struggle with weight as well as yourself struggling with weight, why make excuses to not deal with the issue, with the weight issue? And that bothers me. That bothered me even when I was a kid because I never really felt that my weight was an issue with my parents. Like I mentioned a couple of sessions ago how my mother was depressed and she turned to food. By letting us eat all the food, I think she thought we were in the same stage as her, as feeling down, as feeling depressed, and she always bought the food for us. But my mother did tell me, you know, when we were younger and after we'd go to bed, she'd sit on the couch and eat, kind of like what I do. 
[00:21:58]
She'd be by herself, everybody would be asleep, and it would be like 11:00 and she'd be on the couch watching TV, eating. And that's kind of how I feel at times. I like the closure of being by myself. I like the closure of myself, the bag of chips or the pretzels or whatever, and just eating it by myself with nobody bothering me. When someone comes in and I'm eating it, I'll roll up the bag and I'll put it back. And sometimes when they go away, I might go back and eat it or other times I won't. But my eating usually comes when no one is around, even if I'm not hungry.
THERAPIST: Do you feel like you're ashamed? Is that why you eat when no one is around? 
CLIENT: (pause) I do. I do because when I was growing up and when I did used to go to my grandmother's house—- you know, my dad would always make us go for Sunday dinner—- she used to always comment on what we ate.
[00:23:05]
"Why are you eating so much of this? You don't need it. Why are you eating that?" She used to comment to my dad on how he lets us eat this stuff. And I guess I am kind of self-conscious of what I eat around people. You know, I want to show them that I'm a strong person but in reality, you know, I'd rather be by myself when I eat. If I could eat by myself, I would like that. You know, I mean, I don't mind eating with my girlfriend because she's very supportive in the eating habits that we produce. But if it's my family, if I'm saying that I'm doing this and I'm concentrating on this and then I go and I eat excessively in front of them, I feel bad because I feel like I'm losing all the work that I've put in before.
[00:24:12]
And I also eat more around my family because I know they make all this food, and I know my mother will comment on "I made all this food and nobody is eating anything." And it's frustrating. It's frustrating when you always have that extra abundance of food in front of you, and you can't eat no more but you force yourself to eat, and then you eat so much that you're very uncomfortable.
THERAPIST: You described food in the way you described money. Like it's there, it's a temptation, and you don't know what to do. You can't help yourself, but then you feel badly about it.
[00:24:57]
CLIENT: Mmmm-hmmm. I do. (pause) And I guess that's what troubles me the most, is I do have all these temptations. I do have all these, you know, problems that lie ahead of me. But I also have all these obstacles that are in front of me too. And I just feel that every time the more and more I try to go away and do something to benefit myself individually, the temptation of the food, of the money, of the shelter (ph), it all brings me back. It like tries to bring me back. But today, where I am now, I can say that those temptations, they work for a little bit.
[00:26:05]
Right now, I'm forcing myself away. I'm pushing myself away. I want to be more dependent upon myself than on my parents. It is difficult because it's there and it's what I was raised with. "If you're having money problems, here's a couple bucks. If you don't want to work, that's fine. Even if you're not hungry, here's some chips, there's that there, just in case, for later." I guess you'd call my parents the just-in-case class (ph). "Just in case you need us or need something, here it is."
[00:27:00]
And that's the problem that I'm working at. That's the real temptation that I'm trying to overcome, is moving away from the just-in-case, is moving away from the "Even if you don't need us and you say you don't need us, we're here if you need us." And that's very powerful to me in a way because I can't—- I mean, it's kind of like when I eat at night by myself. Sometimes I just can't control myself, and I have to go to them for something. I have to get something out of them, but in reality I don't need it. 
[00:27:55]
It's just—- it's very complicated. In a way, it's like when I'd snack. I'm not hungry. I don't need to eat. But if it's there, I'm going to eat it. The same thing with the money. I don't need the money. I'll find a way to make it myself. But if they're dangling it there and keep offering, I just take it.
THERAPIST: What's the temptation? 
CLIENT: (pause) I think it's guilt. A lot of it is guilt because I know my parents love me. I know that they're trying to look out for my best interests, and I feel if I don't take anything, if I don't eat what they feed me, I feel that they're going to feel upset. 
[00:28:58]
They're going to be upset, and I do it out of guilt because in a way, I want them to be happy. If it makes them happy giving me money, if it makes them happy watching me eat all their food, I guess I do it. And it's a struggle. It's a struggle because I've never really been argumentative with my parents. I've never really had a full-fledged blow out where I've hated them, you know, like you see on TV. I've never really had that, and I don't want that. I have a very good relationship with my parents, and it's complicated to the point where I do things because I know it makes them feel good, but it makes me feel bad.
[00:30:14]
And that's the constant struggle that I'm dealing with and that I'm working to overcome. It's very difficult because I don't want to disappoint them. I don't want to sadden them. I don't want them to feel sad that, you know, they can't provide anything for me. And that's the hardest part, is it's to the point now where if I offer them something, they'd never take it. I'd hope they would, but they never would. 
[00:31:01]
And that's what I hope with me being on my own and me moving on individually, that someday I hope they take what I can give them, whether it be money, whether it be grandchildren or whatever. And that's a struggle I deal with in my mind is—- going back to what you said, I guess I do feel ashamed because I don't want to disappoint them because I know they want to help, and I know they want to be involved. I don't know, ever since I was little they've always kind of had a part of my life in control. Part of it is letting go of me. 
[00:32:05]
It's probably on both sides where I kind of want to move on from them. I want to start my own life, my parents want me to do the same thing, but we both can't cut that final string on the cord. And for me that is, you know, it's what I'm working toward. It's what I want to do. It's what I want to achieve, is cutting that final string, and me going this way and my parents going this way, but we can all meet together and be happy. 
And that's a major struggle for me right now because every time I—- going back to even when I was little, my number one thing when problems would occur, would be to run away. I'd run away, I'd avoid it, I'd go eat or do whatever, and I'd forget about it until it came back up.
[00:33:10]
And then when it came back up, I'd try to avoid it and move away and do the same routine. And that's a struggle for me. As much as I want to confront things, as much as I want to solve problems all right away, most of the time when it's people like my parents that I don't want confrontation with, I don't want to disappoint them, I'll just run away and I'll move it on, hopefully for another time. And I guess that's probably the one thing I do struggle with, is that I do run away and seclude myself from a lot of the problems that I'm dealing with, mainly because I don't feel I have the support with them as I do with my girlfriend.
[00:34:11]
She has been undoubtedly the number one support that I have and supporting what I want for me and what I want for our relationship, and what she wants for herself and her relationships. And that's very difficult too, because I have never experienced that. I was always, you know, tempted with quick solutions. I was never able to tough it out, as they say, to struggle for a little bit and then move on and do my own thing.
THERAPIST: Well, struggling requires in part that you have confidence in your own abilities.
CLIENT: I do. I do have confidence in my own abilities, but again—- (pause) I do feel a part where I kind of feel bad for myself because I feel if I don't get a job or if I don't do something correct, you know, it brings me down.
[00:35:21]
And this goes back to previous places that I've been employed and that I've, you know, completed my education. Everything that I worked so hard to do, there's always that one negative. Or I've always been put down the whole time.
THERAPIST: I missed—- I'm not following you, the last piece.
CLIENT: Well, a good example of it is working at the restaurant. I worked very hard. I've put all my all into it. But I never felt that I was, you know, credited with good work and helping people out when I'm constantly being criticized, whether it was because of my argumentativeness, my work ethic, or whatever it was. I've always felt I've had a disadvantage my whole life. 
[00:36:21]
You know, I constantly say to myself if I had my little brother's body, I would've been this big athlete and have gone places because of my athletic skill, just because my knowledge for athletics is very high. I always compare myself to other people. I always compare myself to well, if this one can do it, why can't I? Why is this person there and I'm not? And that's a struggle for me. I do feel ashamed of myself at times. I do feel like I did get the short end of the stick. 
[00:37:13]
I wish there was more that was done for me to help me be able to succeed, to help me to be able to be on my own and do the things I want to do. I always felt like I was second fiddle and always was behind someone, and that was my place was to always follow people, to always hang on and do what other people did and be told what to do. I felt like that for a while. And now as I'm starting to work on it and starting to treat myself, you know, I see the potential I have in myself. I see the potential of me being a leader.
[00:38:07]
And that's a good quality that I think I have because I have a lot of passion. You know, me having a lot of passion and me taking the lead, they end up hurting me because it takes me a while to open up. When I get thrown into new situations and uncomfortable situations, I'm not as perky as sometimes I should be. 
Same thing now as when I was in grad school and going to do my internships. I'd go in and I don't know anyone and I don't know anything. I like to kind of keep to myself. I like to just kind of hang under the radar.
[00:39:07]
Like the first day I went out for my internship, I went in, saw my supervisor, went in my office and just wanted nothing to do with anybody. I just kind of wanted to seclude myself, hopefully no one saw me, and just sat there and just be me. And that's where I get comfort in a lot, is in seclusion in new environments, until I have time to process what's going on, process what am I going to do to be successful. And for me, it takes a little bit. I may say I can jump in and do anything. 
[00:39:55]
I can, but there's a fear of God in me that I'm going to fail, and me failing is difficult because I've felt like I've failed my whole life, not being loved, being overweight, struggling between—- just the hatred that I've had come over me over time towards everything. Not just one thing. It feels like I've just been a very angry, bitter person and it's been what I've surrounded myself with. It's been a constant struggle for me to try to change that, to try to be more outgoing, to try to be more pleasant, because that's totally opposite of what I was surrounded with when I was a child. And that is a very difficult thing for me. 
[00:41:04]
But the more and more that I practice it, the more and more that I live it, the more and more that I surround myself with pleasant things and pleasant people, the more comfortable I'm getting with it and the less isolated I am from moving forward. And I think that's been a huge part of my treatment so far, is me being able to finally come into my own, for me to finally realize what was going on and how it would benefit me, instead of running back to my parents and secluding myself where I was comfortable, where I knew the situation, I knew the environment. 
[00:41:55]
THERAPIST: Well, you're talking about two things holding you back, shame and also this feeling of deprivation. 
CLIENT: Mmmm-hmmm. And they are difficult for me because if you didn't know me, you would think I'm a strong, confident person. And, you know, the backbone is I also have this perception of people that I even categorize people as people that have had things handed down to them. And I kind of feel like that in a way myself, is I was that person that has had a lot of things handed down to me and has had a lot of things given to me. Some people can deal with it and embrace it, and for me it's kind of not what I want to be seen as. It's not how I want to be categorized.
[00:43:04]
I want to be seen as someone who worked hard for what he has, as someone who has developed himself into being the person that he is on his own, without the help of his parents or knowing somebody. I do—- that affects me a lot, is my reputation and how I'm judged and categorized. I do fear about how people look at me. I don't want to be seen as this person who is spoiled and whenever he needed anything, he just went to mommy and daddy and got it. You know, have I done it? Absolutely. Am I proud of it? Absolutely not. That bothers me. 
[00:44:01]
Here I am, talking about this person for doing that, when I'm going and doing it but acting like I did it. They don't know that I went to mommy and daddy, but that bothers me. You know, a lot of it has to do with me coming to the fact and accepting I am who I am. I guess judgment of me is a big fear that I have because I was judged since I was at a young age. You know, being overweight and just not being loved by my grandmother the way I thought I deserved to be. And that judgment really hurt me. Then the judgment that my mother puts on everybody, the negative judgment that's registered with me all those years. 
[00:45:02]
And here I am with these negative judgments towards people, not giving them the proper opportunity that I would like to get or deserve, and me trying to change all that is very difficult.
THERAPIST: Finish your thought, but we need to stop in a moment.
CLIENT: Yeah, and it's frustrating to me because it's a habit that I don't want. It's a habit that I would love to overcome. But the only way I can overcome it is by coming and getting treatment and having more confidence in myself.
THERAPIST: Well, we do need to stop. I will see you then in two weeks.
CLIENT: Yep. Thank you, doctor.
THERAPIST: Okay, take care.
CLIENT: That's for you.
THERAPIST: Thank you very much.
CLIENT: Thank you.
THERAPIST: Sure. Have a good afternoon, okay?
CLIENT: You too. Thank you.
END TRANSCRIPT
