TRANSCRIPT OF AUDIO FILE:
______________________________________________________________________________
BEGIN TRANSCRIPT:
PATIENT: He had told me, now this is really getting personal but, he had told me that he had had sex with his last boyfriend. That is the only time he had ever had actual sex with a guy. Because I have never done that. And, um -
THERAPIST: What do you mean?
PATIENT: Like actual intercourse, you know, intercourse or whatever. So, good thing I am such [inaudible]. And he, so anyway, he had said that it had been with this guy Dan. Well along he has been talking about Dan. Dan and him had moved to San Francisco together. Dan had gone to sings together. Never saying that they had a relationship, he never told me that they had an intimate relationship. So even though this is three years old and Dan isn't really around anymore. Dan and him are just friends and I'm not threatened by Dan. Dan has a boyfriend that lives in Aspen,  Colorado  whatever. 
I felt really betrayed, because I felt like we had been really honest with each other. And even though this has nothing to do with this, it kind of does because he wasn't letting me know all along that this is the person that he shared something that was pretty important to me and to him with. Not that I think I think the act of its important, but the fact that you are willing to allow someone to do with you. And so that was upsetting to me and then it was upsetting to him. It made him feel dirty and bad and whatever. And so we worked through that. And then he spent the night at my house again Wednesday and he left all his books there and his notebook from school. Well I be, I should - 0:01:21.2
THERAPIST: [inaudible] before he goes to school?
PATIENT: Yeah, well it's off for the summer. And I probably shouldn't have looked in his notebook, but I did. And I found two little journal entries he's written in February about Dan. So, and I didn't tell him this because I can't, because I've got so many problems right now, I don't need more stress. You know what I mean? Not from big problems, but you know, little, uh disturbances. So he basically had written how he was struggling about his feeling with Dan, but he really wanted, knew that it was just habitual and that he really needed to move on to a new relationship and meet somebody and this is all before him not me. And meanwhile I was seeing someone at that time anyway. But the point is, is that even through he said his feelings for Dan were over a long time ago, it's not true. He was struggling with them. Now I am very well, you know, can understand the fact that, duh he wanted to meet somebody new, he was working the way he needed to work to resolve his feelings with Dan, and that's okay and that's good. But somehow still it made me feel a little bit and sore inside. Just kind of like uh, you know just kind of bothered me.
THERAPIST: Because?
PATIENT: I don't know why. Because maybe somehow it just made me feel like he wasn't really sharing himself with me and letting me really know what was really going on with him. Instead he was just kind of giving me the, the pin up picture of it, the best version. 0:02:41.1
THERAPIST: And you would like to know -
PATIENT: I'd like to know what is really going on. You know, I'd like to know exactly what he is really thinking so that then I understand.
THERAPIST: Does he know exactly what goes on with you?
PATIENT: No, you're right. He doesn't exactly what goes on with me. No. So. But see this is all comes back to what's bothering me because I wish that we, I want to be in a relationship. I wish that, see this is it, I just feel like I need to be with somebody. And I feel like alone and like I need somebody's help, I just, not to help me, but just to be with me. Because I am just so miserable when I am by myself half of the time, that I just feel like if I had somebody with me that I would be okay. Maybe I wouldn't.
THERAPIST: How is someone else making you less miserable?
PATIENT: I don't know, maybe I am just miserable. I don't know. I am just feeling like I'm worn out right now. Because I haven't slept very much for like two weeks, because last week was school and I had all that stuff going on and all these things have been going on and I just, I don't spend any time with myself like I used to. And I am not happy where I am living. And, you know, -
THERAPIST: Well, well wait, wait. You were some, some place specific and now you're just kind of opening the door for the avalanche to come in. 0:03:58.4
PATIENT: Okay, so can you just control the situation entirely and tell me what's going on.
THERAPIST: I can't tell you what's going on. I can just continue asking.
PATIENT: Well that is what I mean.
THERAPIST: Specific thing that I wanted to know more about is that how, how does another person make you feel better?
PATIENT: I don't know. By distracting me. 
THERAPIST: Distracting you?
PATIENT: By distracting me probably from what's really bothering me. By loving me, so I feel loved and appreciated. By giving me attention and making me feel like someone does really care about me and that I am ok. By validating the fact that I feel the way the I do, as far as like my need to be with this person in this relationship. I mean I'm at a point in my life where I want to be, like, I want to like be in a relationship where I am like living with someone and I want to just move forward. I don't want to keep going through these same kinds of relationships all the time. And it is almost like, that's the thing that I hate about, well that is not true, that's a stereotype, but it's like just like if I was with a woman, I'd be like engaged or married and have kids. Because I just feel like, I know how to naturally progress in that relationship. I know how to do that. And with him, he's living at home, his sister is involved, you know, he's going to move to Italy and it's another month of me waiting to see what is going to happen. 
Meanwhile, I am fully aware that I need to get my own stuff together. You know, I did just make it through this whole year of school. And that is an accomplishment. But it's like what now? You know, I just can't be dependant on him and expect him to fill my life, that will drive me nuts and make me feel, you know. And it's already bugging me that I am feeling so, you know, much like I need him. But I spent so much time not allowing myself to need anyone that it like it feels good now to let myself down a little bit. 0:05:58.2
THERAPIST: Um hum.
PATIENT: You know.
THERAPIST: Um hum. Well maybe it feels good to let yourself be needy but maybe he's not reciprocating the way you want. And I am not sure, but, I am not sure what you are saying.
PATIENT: I know because I am saying a lot and it's not very clear. But, he is. Like we sat down and had a talk the other night and I said to him this is what I expect, you know, out of a relationship. Like this is what I think is important and I want to see it growing forward and he is like "you're right," like he agreed. And he wants to be a part of that and I can feel that and he makes an effort every time I am with him.
THERAPIST: Which is last night?
PATIENT: No this was Sunday night. But, meanwhile he has got his own problems. He's an individual, he's probably not, you know, completely happy living at home, I don't know. But, you know, and he has to deal with his sister, which I know upsets him even though he loves her. And he doesn't know if he is going to go to Europe or not. So, he has got all those other things besides the fact that I am sure at some point he's dealing with our relationship. But it is just a clear sign to me of how I feel when I say something to him like well do you even think about our relationship, knowing he does. Which is saying, you know, do you? Because you don't talk to me about it. I said I am pretty much the instigator, I talk about our relationship to you, and you respond. 
THERAPIST: What would you like him to talk about?
PATIENT: Maybe just, you know, once in while say how he feels about our relationship in some sort of validating form. 0:07:36.9
THERAPIST: For example?
PATIENT: For example, you know, I'm so glad, like stuff he used to say. Like I am so glad that I met you, our relationship is so good, I am so happy that I am here with you. 
THERAPIST: And he used to say that because...
PATIENT: No he just more shows it through action, he's just more like in this other world. And I think, I said this to him and I think that I am right. The more I confirm things for him, the more I give him, the less he needs to give me, because he is too busy responding to what I'm giving him. And that is [inaudible] a need in him that isn't, you know what I am saying. That's me leading him already because I am giving him all the validation and comfort that he needs in our relationship. So why does he need to do it then back to me, because he is already confirming it to me by responding to me. But I need him to enable himself to be the one that presents it first, but maybe that mean that I need to shut up for a while. 
THERAPIST: Shut up like what? Do you tell him like I love you all the time?
PATIENT: No, I don't tell him I love you, but I tell you know, I just talk about our relationship and stuff. And talk about like, you know, if he comes over, like I am so glad you came over, I am so happy to see you, well hey, you know. And he does that kind of too. But, you know, like right now, I just started getting really anxious and that has been a problem for like the last three days, I've been having really bad like anxiety like I just feel like I am go like crazy and explode and like you know, like I'm not going to [inaudible].
THERAPIST: Around this? Or.
PATIENT: Just in general. And I think that's just being overwhelmed. Because like last night, I thought I was going to have a break down all day yesterday because I was so tired and I didn't want to go to work and I'm just so, you know like, ugh. And -
THERAPIST: What is it, when you say that you feel like you are going to have a breakdown, what does that feel like? 0:09:10.1
PATIENT: That feels like, you know, when your head is just all clogged up, I have really bad allergies anyway, but when you just feel like, you're overwhelmed basically. You're overwhelmed by life, by the things that you know are going on. Not knowing where to turn.
THERAPIST: And then you say that you feel like a breakdown, what would the breakdown be?
PATIENT: I don't know that is the scary part. Probably nothing. Because I feel all these feelings and then I go to work and work all night and everything is fine. So obviously this is all in my head, its too much coffee with no food, too little sleep. I've always been weird with too little sleep, my whole life. And too much stress, you know. I mean I just feel like I want to like to go like my fantasy is Betty Ford Clinic. I just want to go to Betty Ford and have people like help me get over all this stuff. And like I want to quit drinking and I want to feel good about myself. And I want to just feel strong. And I feel all the opposites. I feel weak, even though I know I am strong. I feel tired, even though I know that I am not always. I feel, you know, needy, even though I that I know that I am not completely. 
THERAPIST: What's weak? What's the weak?
PATIENT: Weak, just like oh my god, like I just want just go ugh, it's over. Not over my life, but its over just like this fight just to survive constantly. You know and everybody does it, but I just feel like I need, like I just need to find, I need to find power within myself to lift myself up and go forward. And just push forward. 
THERAPIST: So, I am not clear as to why the weakness?
PATIENT: The weakness is, just, I want to be consumed with my own life and not just with my life with like for instance Carl. You know.
THERAPIST: It's a weakness with your thinking about him a lot. Is that what you are saying?
PATIENT: I guess.
THERAPIST: No I am asking. 0:10:55.9
PATIENT: It is a weakness that I don't feel empowered as a person. That I feel, you know, I get pangs of empowerment and I am not following through with it. I say I want to quit chewing, and then I throw away my chew can and then everyday I buy another one. I say I don't want to drink, and then I get oh well, I am going to go out and drink and then I am hung over the next day. I say I don't want to, you know, I don't know, go out. And then I go out. But like last night, I went out dancing, even though I was so tired, and it really made me feel better inside. It made me feel happier. It like gave me like a huge release, because I can go on the dance floor and I can just be an individual. There I feel completely empowered to be on my own. I don't anyone to touch me, I don't want anyone to be with me, and I can be me. And I don't have to share it, I mean I am sharing it, but I don't have to like give of me in a way that makes me feel like I'm, you know, having to give up myself. You know, be more vulnerable or open myself up to someone. Like even in this way I have to open myself up to you, otherwise it is not going to work. It's not going to work if I sit here, you know, I have to open myself up to you so that, so that have a productive meeting otherwise I'm going to feel bad.
THERAPIST: How do you mean? Explain that a little more.
PATIENT: I just mean, you know, I'm just speaking of the difference of doing something for me and then doing something for that is more painful for me to do, like give up part of myself. 
THERAPIST: Is being here and being and opening yourself up is at the expense of something of you.
PATIENT: Well at the expense of my comfort. Its helps that I get more comfort for this experience.
THERAPIST: How is this at the expense of your comfort? 0:12:34.3
PATIENT: Because it causes me to be anxious and deal with all the things that I am dealing with. At the same time, you know, very fulfilling, I was excited to come here and talk about all these things. Because finally I have someone I can talk to about that is objective and that I know you are sober. I know you are going to be able to give me, you know, be rational with me. And I can trust that. You know. I mean when I look at my life I think I have a pretty good life, you know. But I just think I could have so much more if I could just find a way to be focused. And I am not talking about material things anyway, I'm talking about fulfillment of my inner being, you know. My inner self of me, you know. But its, you know, like yesterday all I did was I've been having a lot of really strong dreams, dream imagery has been all day long in the back of my head, a lot of childhood memories lately that are with me during the day. Plus all this stuff that I am dealing with and I just, and when I say I just want to take a break, it's because that just all feels to overwhelming to me. Like it does right now, it's just like I don't know how to deal with it all. You know. And I've been here before. 
THERAPIST: It sounds, I mean I'm listening to you [inaudible] and you said there is a lot that is going on and I'm thinking well, with the opening of your schedule with the fact that you don't have to go school anymore. There is a lot of empty space that gets filled up [inaudible]. You look to me a little sad today -
PATIENT: Oh really?
THERAPIST: You never looked to be sad before. 0:14:14.5 
PATIENT: That's scary.
THERAPIST: Why is it scary?
PATIENT: Because I don't know. Because I am scared right now. I'm starting to feel anxious now, because I am just feel scared talking about all this stuff that is really bothering me. I don't, it's just overwhelming, you know, protect me somehow. You know what I mean?
THERAPIST: Talk about it and more chance that [inaudible]
PATIENT: No. So it's sad and it makes me even sadder. I'm just, I am sad because I am sad about the fact that I am not doing what I think I need to do make myself a better person and a stronger person. And I just want to be, you know, I just I deserve to be happy. And I understand how to be happy. But I am not following through with what it takes to make myself happy. You know. And I don't trust a lot of people around me right now. You know. And here I am in New York City, you know, its just like ugh, you know. I feel like I just need to sleep for like three days and like that is why I just want to go to like Betty Ford. I want to like just sleep.
THERAPIST: [inaudible]
PATIENT: Because I don't feel like I can allow myself to sleep, one. To take the time to just sleep, I feel like I can give myself that. 
THERAPIST: [inaudible]
PATIENT: Well I am afraid that if I sleep that I'm I don't know, I am not dreaming anything.
THERAPIST: What is happening?
PATIENT: I don't know. It's so loud anyway. I can barely sleep. I guess I'm going to make it through all this. I just, I mean this all better be worth it. Some thing really big and nice must be coming my way, because I'm like, this is like sucks, you know. 0:16:04.6
THERAPIST: Is this, I'm kind of wondering really if you're all the worrying that you doing is some kind of almost like a form of your reassuring yourself that if you are only worry enough you will all be fine. It's like you have to worry in order to get somewhere. 
PATIENT: Well you're right because like half of the day I have to just tell myself, well this isn't really worth that and the other half I just have to go you're okay. MY mind doesn't say you're okay. You know just confirm that I am okay. You know. So now, I'm just ready to have a full on anxiety attack so I need to calm down.
THERAPIST: I don't remember who said it, it was on TV a few weeks ago. I was following something like maybe this thing that happened with Columbine, the shooting at the school or some such media event that, oh no it was the tornados that went by that this person was [inaudible] and asked them something about are you worried or and this person said you know, I don't remember exactly how he said it but I thought that was a smart thing to say. He said 'no I am not worried' so the person said 'how' or something like that. And 'well worrying doesn't get you anything but it gives you something to do'. Something like that, I don't know, [inaudible].
PATIENT: I think it's true. It's really true.
THERAPIST: I'm not trying to dismiss your worrying [inaudible].
PATIENT: No but I'd like to how to [inaudible]. 0:18:09.8 
THERAPIST: For you, it seems to me, your worrying is something that you do. Maybe it's almost something like that makes you feel like you are going somewhere. Like if you are worrying, then just like the first test to [inaudible]. Where as if you go to sleep, you're not doing it. 
PATIENT: I shouldn't have had an espresso before I came here.
THERAPIST: You what?
PATIENT: I shouldn't have had an espresso before I came here because I am like eeeee. Oh I just get really buzzed off coffee, it's probably not good for me. 
THERAPIST: Uh huh. You feel like what -
PATIENT: I just feel -
THERAPIST: [inaudible].
PATIENT: Just a little anxious, that's all.
THERAPIST: What kind of anxious? Where?
PATIENT: Just I guess felt overwhelmed like I just don't know what to do. And I am, I don't want to focus on it because it is going to make me like. I don't know I just feel like, just because everything you are saying makes complete sense, you are totally right. But its like you know, I just have to use, I have to take action, I think. Maybe, you know.
THERAPIST: What kind of action?
PATIENT: I just to have like starting doing things to make me feel better because I am sending head shots out to agents. Do things that are active and then I will probably feel a lot better. 0:19:39.5
THERAPIST: Um hum.
PATIENT: Like, you know, actual actions instead of just thinking about them which is worry. To actually do something proactive to take myself forward. Or sleep.
THERAPIST: There is many kinds of thought and worrying is one kind of thought, planning in another kind of thought.
PATIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: Thinking [inaudible] what it is that you want to do or need to do, you know. 
PATIENT: Well I am just wondering why, I don't know, why I am so like why I am so dependent on this relationship of like, you know, why am I feeling fear about it when, when I know its all good. And that's just, you know, I'm afraid it's going to go away. You know. But that might just be because of the fact that a lot is going on with it and with everything. And I don't know if he going to go, like he says even if he goes to Italy for a month then, you know, what does that mean? We can't be together when he comes back? No. We've only been going out for tow, two and half months. And now he's going to leave for a month, that is half the time we've been going out in the first place. And I know me, and I am afraid I'm not going to be able to, you know, I get, people like, I meet a lot of people all of the time that I probably have, you know, relationships with. And he'd just hope that I'd be strong enough to last a whole month, and that sounds horrible. You know, but that is true. 0:21:06.1
THERAPIST: I am wondering, I am wondering what I call last [inaudible] and canceled. What's that like?
PATIENT: I think I was fine. I probably was irritated at first just because I was like eh, now I have to wait a whole another week.
THERAPIST: Because, you know, I mean our relationship which is also short, you know, canceling one out of I think we had three.
PATIENT: It probably bothered me. I don't think I consciously thought about. But I think initially I was a little bit irritated. But, you know, I try to understand. That's my way of dealing is go well I'm sure a good reason and I just try to understand. So I am sure that is what happened. So. 
THERAPIST: Yeah, well I traveling.
PATIENT: I know. But yeah, it just like everybody is always doing things and I just feel like I want to be doing things too. That is what I need to do. 
THERAPIST: [inaudible].
PATIENT: I want to be traveling. I want to go to Italy. I want, you know, do things. 
THERAPIST: It is quiet incredible that you just finished a whole year and [inaudible] like two days ago [inaudible] really not doing anything. 
PATIENT: I know, but that is just the way that I am. You know, I feel like my life should be like more. I always say this to you. I've got way too much energy and too much going on, that why I need, but I have to create it, [inaudible] more. I mean there are young people, like I keep saying, my age who are, you know, doing more. Lot more. And that to me is exciting and I want that. You know. I mean how, there is people my age that are walking on sets and seeing Robert DeNiro. Even they are only saying one line with Robert DeNiro, that's living. You know, that's to me is an actor. That's living. You know being on the studio sets are so exciting. That's living. You know. 0:23:01.1
THERAPIST: You're very persuasive your whole life.
PATIENT: I know. Is that bad? Probably.
THERAPIST: I know as a lad you have fun. 
PATIENT: [laughing]
THERAPIST: You're laughing.
PATIENT: I am laughing. 
THERAPIST: Just write about it. What I am saying is that you know a person can be very ambitious and want much more out of their lives. And this is a testament later to not being completely content in your own life at the moment. Because if you are happy you don't want anything. 
PATIENT: But it's good though.
THERAPIST: But it doesn't have to be at the cost of looking at everything that you are doing as contemptible, not worthy of a moment of sitting down and saying uh, I tired, I've had fun having this drink, I am enjoying myself. 0:24:08.9
PATIENT: yeah, I do that in some ways.
THERAPIST: Yeah, you go dancing and you do that.
PATIENT: I did that last night.
THERAPIST: But then, but then it kind of snaps back.
PATIENT: You're right. It does snap back.
THERAPIST: Feels like to me that you have this part of you. This part of you tells you Oh you not doing anything important. So [inaudible]. And once in a while you can detach it from yourself [inaudible]. But it is kind of connected with an elastic and after a while it's in a way you give it snaps back.
PATIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: [inaudible].
PATIENT: Off into like the clouds, like ugh. Now I have to figure out how to go on with the day. I'll be fine. 0:24:53.4
THERAPIST: With the clouds, what do you mean?
PATIENT: [inaudible] collapse, like ugh.
THERAPIST: Collapse, what's that?
PATIENT: Physically like, I'm just tired, that's all.
THERAPIST: Remaining next week, Thursday right?
PATIENT: Yeah. 
THERAPIST: You know where to find me, if you need to before then.
PATIENT: Don't worry about it, I mean I'm fine.
THERAPIST: I am just saying.
PATIENT: I think that, you know, I just wanted you to tell me that what I was feeling was okay. And you know, because I feel like it isn't. And then, and that is all that I wanted from you and I didn't get so it makes me feel frustrated.
THERAPIST: What do you mean?
PATIENT: Well because I just wanted to know what I am feeling about Carl and all these feelings that I am feeling maybe, that those feelings are okay.
THERAPIST: Okay in what sense?
PATIENT: That I am not being, you know, I think I am being pretty appropriate actually.
THERAPIST: Inappropriate?
PATIENT: Appropriate. 
THERAPIST: Appropriate. 0:25:53.9
PATIENT: I feel like they are appropriate to the circumstances. Maybe I just wanted confirmation that that was true.
THERAPIST: Uh huh.
PATIENT: Or that it wasn't and that maybe that I needed to look at it from a different perspective. 
THERAPIST: And you didn't get it from me.
PATIENT: Uh uh. 
THERAPIST: Well maybe one of the things for us to talk about in this connection is what, what really, I mean because you are asking me to give you some sort of opinion about and it is kind of interesting what kind of opinions that you want from me. 
PATIENT: Well I think I want this opinion because I feel so worn down and I feel kind of like, like I do feel like I'm going to have a nervous breakdown or something. And I know I [inaudible]
THERAPIST: [inaudible]
PATIENT: I'm going to have a nervous breakdown or something because I am so tired and so like confused, but. I know that I am not going to because I watch everybody else around me, I mean they are far worse usually. And I know that I am just overtired and that is it. But I feel that way, so I want somebody to tell me that it's not going to happen. That I am going to be okay. When in reality I know that I am going to be okay. But I think that [inaudible]
THERAPIST: But that is something else that you are telling me now. There is one thing for me to tell you, yeah what you are going through with Carl is natural or whatever. And the other says, I guarantee you your not going to have a breakdown. You're trying to make me a little Betty Ford. 0:27:18.1
PATIENT: [laughing] Probably. Probably.
THERAPIST: Well I understand what you are saying. And what I mean I understand, it's not just that I understand the meaning of the word and the syntax. I understand what it feels like. I definitely don't think it is out of line or crazy.
PATIENT: Ugh the catch word.
THERAPIST: And I do feel, you know, its like you are sitting here and I feel a strong need to kind of console you and tell everything will be okay. But I think it is part of the work that we are doing and that we are going together is figure out exactly how that is going to be. And you know, but I can tell you right now is that I see that this is very difficult for you. But and so I tell you, you know, we are meeting next Thursday but you know where to find me if you need to before. Because I want to keep [inaudible] if you want for any reason talk to me before you can do that. But I don't mean this to hint to you that I think you are going to have a breakdown or anything like that. That's not what I am saying.
PATIENT: I know.
THERAPIST: I'm just trying to respond to what. So let try to leave [inaudible].
PATIENT: I could call them. They have scholarships. I could leave New York and go off to Betty Ford. That would be a great story.
THERAPIST: It would be a great story, for what?
PATIENT: For me to tell.
THERAPIST: [inaudible]
PATIENT: For me to tell, uh I went to Betty Ford for a while. [inaudible].
THERAPIST: Alright thank you. I'll see you next week.
PATIENT: Okay. 0:29:36.7
END TRANSCRIPT
