TRANSCRIPT OF AUDIO FILE:
______________________________________________________________________________
<b>BEGIN TRANSCRIPT:</b>
THERAPIST: Hi. Come on in.
CLIENT: Hi. I forgot that ... I came at 8:20 instead of 8:30. Because ...
THERAPIST: Oh, our last Friday was 8:20, right?
CLIENT: Yeah. So, I ... Hi.
THERAPIST: Hi.
CLIENT: How are you?
THERAPIST: Good.
CLIENT: Good. Goodness. Sleepy. The girls keep getting sick and we're just sick all winter. It never stops. They got sick in October. We've just sick all through. Well, though ...
THERAPIST: What do we have today?
CLIENT: So Chris got his grades back on Friday and was not disappointed but he was ... we went to meet for dinner. He was going to check his grades because he knew they were coming out and he had been applying for jobs all last semester and missed so many classes.
(00:01:09)
CLIENT: Last year he was first in his class out of the whole law school which was really a big deal and exciting and you know fifth overall. So he was really proud of it and he got his grades back this semester and he's like ... he had a ... his GPA before was like a 3.9 something and it got brought down to 3.8. If you're not in the top fifteen you get bumped out of the ranking; you don't know your ranking anymore. So he told me he was going to ask if he was ranking and he said, "Well I'm out of the top 15 people." So he was all sulky all night. (Laugh) Not sulky, but like you know. He was in a bad mood. And so we went to dinner and we went home a watched a movie and like we're having some wine and for some reason his bad mood ... like when he gets in a bad mood I just have to then ... instead of talking about it I just get mean for some reason if I've had a few drinks. And so him and his friends were ... they're always like ... he and his guy friends think they're really funny and really amused by each other. And they're jokes back and forth to each other are always like, " But I'm the best." Or like, "I'm the funniest." And for some reason it annoys me.
(00:02:37)
CLIENT: Like get over yourselves. You guys are great, I love you all, but like, enough already because we get it, you guys are so great. And so I said something like just kind of cutting and mean for no reason, like I don't mean to say it. But I say it and of course like starts an argument. I said like, "Why do you think you're so funny? Like you guys you know that other people laugh with their friends too. Other people are funny too." And it started an argument. And then of course, you know he got mad, reasonably and then I just stopped talking. I just don't talk anymore. And then he ends up just leaving the room.
(00:03:26)
CLIENT: That's really bad. I just can't ... I mean this is the cycle that happened. This is not unusual. It's very typical actually. And so ... well the newer thing is me just not talking. Usually it would just keep escalating into a full-blown fight and yelling. But now instead what I do is I say something mean, he reacts, he says something mean back and then I just stop talking. And (pause) I don't know, I think there was some more layers to what happened just because (pause) but I just ... but that part in particular is something that doesn't ever change. It's really infuriating. It's infuriating for him. It makes him really frustrated and then there's nothing more I can say ... the only thing I can say the next day is like, "I'm sorry." I know. I don't know. I just do that and then what else do you say? You know it's like ... you know. I can only ... he just ... must be so frustrating for him because I just keep doing it. And it's frustrating for me too. I don't know like ... it's like I just can't help myself.
(00:05:04)
CLIENT: But ...
THERAPIST: What do you think the other layers are?
CLIENT: Well a couple of weeks ago, you know he ... my friends from back home, my guy friends, he doesn't like them and they're not very welcoming when the girls bring new guys around. They never have been. And so they're a little difficult and Chris has never really liked them and going into the situation he knows, you know with Fred being there and then I have some history with some of the other guys in my group of friends and that immediately makes him put his ... he just won't have anything to do with them. He doesn't want to have anything to do with them. He doesn't like them and he's told me, "I just don't like your friends. Your friends suck. They're weak." And I know it comes from his insecurity about my history with them. But it still ... these guys are still part of my life and still my friends and you know we have all moved on. Well maybe not me and Fred. But my other friends and I, you know they're engaged, I'm married, like there's no more history in this way. We had ... of my closest guy friends had just bought a house in (inaudible_00:06:25) over the summer with his fiancé and wanted us ... Chris and I to come out to visit for a weekend. I made the plans and then Chris just completed rejected it. He just wouldn't go.
(00:06:40)
CLIENT: And I ask him, "Let's just go for a night. We'll drive up Saturday morning. We'll spend Saturday night, we'll leave Sunday morning." And he just wouldn't do it and he just like, you know, "Your friend Jed sucks and he's super weak. He's not nice to me. Like why should I be nice to this guy?" So I was like, "Oh my God just do it because he's a person in my life who I care about and I've made a huge effort for your friends who are now my friends because I've tried really hard and I just want the same courtesy back. I understand it's more difficult because I've slept with Jed, but that is in the past and I can't change that." And so you know that happened over the summer and then by New years we were supposed to go to the same house and a lot of my friends from high school were going to be there and over the holidays Jed had seen Chris and said, "Come to the New Years party. You guys are invited, we'd love to have you." And Chris was like, "I will never go to that New Years ... are you kidding me? No, not at all." To me. He did say this to Brian.
(00:07:52)
CLIENT: But ... you know, obviously hurt my feelings. Again this is a situation where these are people in my life. This is one night, you know? I don't know why this is that big of a deal. And so, you know he ended up not coming and I went and you know even like that day that I was leaving he's saying like, "This is totally inappropriate. Like I don't see why you think this is appropriate for you to do." And I just don't agree. I just don't think it was inappropriate. He was invited. He could have come. He felt ... I think the only reason he thought it was inappropriate was because he didn't want to be in that situation. So I get really frustrated when he is openly very verbal how much he hates my friends. My girlfriends he likes just fine. And he, you know things that they're fine. But he'll just attack, you know my friends and say that they're whatever they are. So when I hear talking about with his friends or about his friends I'm like, I love his friends and so the thing is I really like them and I really get along with all of them. But as soon as he starts in or I hear any of them joking around about like, "We're the tightest." Like, "We're so cool." Like it just gets under my skin because I know how great they think they are. (Chuckle) And even though I think they're great too when Chris is so openly negative about my friends it's like, "Uh."
(00:09:44)
THERAPIST: You feel like it's an implicit put down?
CLIENT: Yeah. Right. So I just ... I think that that's where that was coming from.
THERAPIST: People who sit around saying how great they are usually don't think they're that great.
CLIENT: I know. I know it's like ... and they're joking. They always say they're joking. That's what they now say it's a joke. But it's like it can't be that much of a joke if that's like you guys constant jokes back and forth to each other. It just gets under my skin. (Laugh) It didn't get under my skin before he was openly negative about the people in my life. And that's when it started to bother me. And the next day I explained that to him and I said you know, "Obviously this looks like it completely came out of the blue. And it did completely come out of the blue. I just was trying ... I just got a jab in. But I think it was because of this like, you know now this feeling that I have that these people in my life suck in your opinion and you and your friends are so great. And so I just feel defensive and I feel insulted by it."
THERAPIST: It sounds like you don't feel like you guys can have a genuine conversation about his anxiety or insecurity about your friend and friends in your past with him.
(00:11:22)
CLIENT: Yeah. I don't really feel like I can. He ... we have like a pretty different history. Just ... I was very promiscuous and I was with a lot of people before starting to see Chris and that's something that (pause) is a little embarrassing for me because I know I was doing out of insecurity for myself. And just like just sort of eager. I'm not very proud of. And a lot of people that I've been with either he knows or are my friends or he knows a lot of the people. And so ... but Chris on the other hand hasn't been with hardly anybody. And he's has a very different history and so I don't have to be around people that he's been with and I don't have to see his ex's and I don't have to see his one-night stands or you know, I don't have to deal with any of that. Everybody that ... they're all in Washington where he went to college and so it's not anything that exists in our life. But my history does really exist in our life. In California and in Massachusetts and (pause) and I think that his lack of experience I guess or dating history or whatever before we got together is an insecurity of his and my other extreme is an insecurity of mine. So because of that its just not really talked about openly. When we talk about it it's like vague. Like vague ways of saying things. Like it would never be like, "I ain't going to a party with a guy you slept with." It would never be that. It would be like, "Do you think that's okay for you to be there with him?" It's just implied instead of like being actually said. And we just don't talk about me as in my ... I don't know. Not that I necessarily want to talk about it. But I think that there's things there that still come up and aren't really resolved for him and maybe for me either.
(00:13:57)
CLIENT: I used to be really embarrassed about my past like, mortified. And now it's just for me it's just kind of like something that happened and that I can't change and that kind of understand why it happened. You know I realized that I was just trying to be validated from all these different guys. So I understand that and it's less embarrassing for me now and more just (pause) a phase that happened. Not that I'm proud of it but it's just not something that really like tears me up inside like it used to. But I think it really bothers him. I don't know.
THERAPIST: Do you think it bothers him because he compares himself ... he compares your past to his past and feels inadequate?
CLIENT: No. I think ... what I think and I don't know we've talked about it. But I think that he thinks that I was a slut. And that I was like just had really bad behavior. (Chuckle) And that that's kind of embarrassing for him. I think that ...
THERAPIST: Excuse me. I'm just getting over a cold.
CLIENT: Oh, no.
THERAPIST: I apologize.
CLIENT: No. No don't. And like, no he's never said that to me but it's just what I think is probably his feeling on the situation. I think that he has his own feelings about his history but I don't think they're really, to me, I don't think like compares them. I think that ... I don't know. Because like, you know all his friends growing up were all like, you know had girlfriends or whatever and Chris just didn't. And then you know had a couple of girls he went on dates with. And then there was me and then we got married. And so I think for him that's his own thing separate from me at least. I don't know that.
(00:16:15)
We've never really talked about it. So (pause) Like I, you know I asked him, you know, "How many people you been with?" And who'd he been with? And that's like the one conversation that we've had about it. So ... (Pause) (sigh) I don't know.
THERAPIST: So what keeps you guys from talking about it is you both have bad feelings about it for maybe different reasons.
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: So neither one of you is that motivated to actually get, you know talk about it directly.
CLIENT: Exactly.
THERAPIST: It just comes up and all these kind of, I don't know, they're illusions to it.
CLIENT: Mm-hm. Yeah. Exactly. And then it just, you know and then it manifests in this like relationship that he doesn't have with my friends and it just ... it's just there. Just ... and then I go ... then I guess like, I guess my feeling is like, "What is there to say?" So like I think sometimes about like you know about talking about it but feel like he'll probably just shutdown. I don't know what ... like what is there to say anymore? You know like I could say, "I don't think you like my friends because I've been with some of them." And then, and then what? You know then he'll just say, "Yeah. You know I don't like it." And then what? (Chuckle) And so ... I don't know. I guess like since we've got into this we talked about it early in our relationship and then you know it kind of come up and then we got engaged and we got married. And then after you're married it's kind of like, "Well what's the point? Like why do we need to talk about this?" I'm like ...
THERAPIST: You need to talk about because you keep fighting about it.
(00:18:27)
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: That's a good reason.
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: Or it doesn't seem like you fight about it, but it seems like it instigates.
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: And you both have a lot of bad feelings about it.
CLIENT: Yeah. Yeah. That's true. I also (chuckle) not that this matters. But when we first starting dating his best friend, Jay, who had kind of hooked us up, they're our friends that live here now. He had said to me like, "Just so you know I think Chris is a virgin." And I was like ... I said, "No he's not. There's no way." And he said, "Yeah, seriously. He went away to school in Washington and like we'd heard about some girls but we think Chris ... Chris has never talked to us about girls. So we think Chris is a virgin." And I was very far from that and so I was kind of ... he and I never talked about it. We just went on with that stuff. And I asked him later, like, "Have you been with other girls?" And he said, "Yes." And he told me there were these three girls and he told me about them. But I've always kind ... it was really early and I've always kind of wondered if he was telling me the truth or not. Because ... and not that it matters really. I mean it does matter. But I just always wondered how true that was. I've asked him, you know we had had that conversation and then I asked him later like, "Were you telling me the truth like had you really?" And he said, "Yes." And so I feel like if I keep bringing it up like ... you know he's already told me two times that's not the case. But I've always kind of suspected like ... I don't know maybe (pause) I just don't know. I don't know why that would matter to me either.
(00:20:34)
I guess just the being lied to mattered. But I always kind of wondered. (Pause) So I guess that's another part of it. And I think just his inability to kind of relate to each other's experiences makes it really difficult to have that conversation. Just like (pause) I mean just so opposite ends of it and you know it makes it really hard to say like, "Yeah sometimes I would go and I would just go home with a guy." And like I just, at the time didn't think it was that big of a deal. To me it just wasn't that big of a deal. But he's never had that experience at all. And like ... and I ... It just makes me feel bad about myself and so I don't want to talk about, I guess. I just don't know how to have the conversation. Like (pause) what to say I guess.
THERAPIST: Mm-hm.
CLIENT: So ...
THERAPIST: So you feel he wouldn't understand your experience and you wouldn't understand his?
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: But it sounds like even more so you feel there's a layer of judgment. It's not simply just not understanding.
CLIENT: Well, yeah. I feel like he's going like that those are negative feelings that he has about me. I feel like ... I don't think any husband wants to talk about like how many people their wife's been with before. And so, I feel like I don't want to bring up this ... these negative feelings he's got about me. And this idea of this person that I was before hand. That's not a cute person. (Laugh) That's not a good look. So part of me feels weird about bringing it up for that reason.
(00:22:44)
CLIENT: I don't want you to remember this person that I was before. Remember how I was. But you're right it does come up ... it comes up with just my (pause) just my personality and how I am. I mean, you know when we're out with our friends and I like, you know I'm hugging his friends and I'm like you know ... our friends and like you know, my old roommate who's a guy and I like had a relationship for a little bit and that's how I am and that's just my nature. And it's seems inappropriate and I don't if those things are inappropriate or not but just that's who I am. I know that he feels so uncomfortable with it because he knows who I used to be and how I used to be and that type of behavior was just lead to me getting a bunch of guys. And so I think when we're out and he sees me acting like that, acting all flirty and like I'm flirting with girls too, that's just my ... that's what he sees and he sees like ... I'm just being how I used to be. I think at least. Because he gets really mad about it. (Pause)
(00:24:16)
CLIENT: And I know that I need to obviously change certain types of behavior because they make him uncomfortable. But certain types of behavior I just think like, "That's just me." And at a certain point like I do like that I'm really affectionate and I do like to hug my friends and I do like to ... that's just who I am and that's just how I am. And so yes there are probably certain things that I should (inaudible_00:24:41). But for the most part I like that about myself. I like that my friends know that I love them and I show them and so there are certain things that I just think like I don't want to change that and I do like that about myself. And so ... I don't know. (Pause) And those are things that he can't really change. Me touching (laugh), that kind of stuff. And that, he can't really ... he thinks that whenever I'm being touchy and being like, you know when I'm hugging everybody and you know he thinks that's flirting. And that's just how I am. It's not flirting when I do it to my brothers or my sister. It's just who I am. Just how I interact. But for him, he doesn't like any of that and so it's ... I don't know. I think he only sees it when I'm doing it with other guys. He doesn't see it when I'm like, "So you're my girlfriend holding her hand." Or like sitting ... those are blocked to him and he only sees it when I'm doing this. And I think it's because this history that I have. So I guess I'm proving to myself how important it is that we talk about this. But it just feels so weird to bring it up out of the blue and just say, "I think we should talk about this."
(00:26:17)
Which means I'll probably do it when I'm a little drunk. (Chuckle) Not consciously. I just know that I'll probably put it off and then (inaudible_00:26:34) and think it's a great time to talk about it.
THERAPIST: What do you think it's about?
CLIENT: I don't know. It's a good question. I don't know if that's about ... (pause) I think part of it is just, you know I loose my filter and then the things that I've been thinking bubble right up to the surface. I don't know but I definitely have a few drinks and then say mean things and it's reaction based. I feel like at least. It may not be, I might just be a mean person. But I feel like the next morning when I'm thinking about it, I think like, "Why did I do that? Like where did that come from? That was ... what is that?" Like you know I've told that I said things that I just like do not think or feel or just saying things to say them. And I think I'm just trying to get a reaction. (Pause) I don't know why though. I mean, I guess it's just like the stupidest thing; it's why everything is so stupid. It's just, like it's everything my dad was mean to me so then I'm going to do bad stuff. I feel like, like everything can't be that.
THERAPIST: That's what comes to your mind.
CLIENT: Yeah. But it sounds so stupid. It's like I can't blame everything in my life on like my dad was a bad guy who did mean things to me and so I'm (pause) how bad can that be really? Everything can't come down to that. Like I feel frustrated. (Pause)
(00:28:58)
THERAPIST: Well I'm not saying it does come down to that but when you say it can't come down to that, does that mean because it doesn't seem logically possible or you don't want it to?
CLIENT: I don't want it to I guess. I'm it does seem logically possible. And I see it and that's what I think it is. But it sounds so corny when I say it out loud and sounds so just, just so stupid.
THERAPIST: What sounds corny about?
CLIENT: I don't know, it sounds like a 'Lifetime' movie. Sounds like (laugh) (pause)
THERAPIST: Well that's no good.
CLIENT: I know.
THERAPIST: Those are awful.
CLIENT: They really are and it sounds like I'm just blaming everything on it and I hate that. I don't want ... I just don't want to blame everything on stuff that happened when I was a kid. Like I'm so over it. (Pause) I just don't think ...
THERAPIST: But you're not?
CLIENT: No I don't ... (pause) but it's still frustrating. (Sniffling)
THERAPIST: What's frustrating about it?
CLIENT: It frustrating that I guess like it has this much weight still. And that you'd think like you'd think like I'm aware of this problem. And I have an idea of where it comes from but I have an idea of what my triggers are. And here comes the problem again and again and again and again and again and again. And you ... just happens like I just think like (pause) "Okay so you have an idea of where it comes from. You have an idea of the things that you do to get you to that place, why does it keep happening." And that's just frustrating to me.
(00:31:04)
(Pause)
CLIENT: I don't know. Like why do I want Joe to be mad at me? There's no like ... why would I want that? I just don't know why I want that.
THERAPIST: I don't know all the ways in which your dad was mean to you.
(Pause)
CLIENT: (sigh) He just would say really mean things and just act like a lunatic. Just shove you for no reason. Just be walking ... just would try to ... he was just scary. He would be scary to be scary. You know there was just a layer of fear that always existed just, you know just don't step out of line because you don't know what will happen. And he never like lost it, like beat me up. But like, there were, you know shove me down the stairs for no reason or like spankings when I was little like weren't really ... I don't know I think just like smacking a kid isn't really a spanking that's just getting hit. Just doing scary things for no reason. Chasing your dog with a chainsaw and telling us he was going to cut its head off. Like just doing scary things and being scary. And just ... anytime you watch somebody beat your mom up likes it's not anybody you want to be around. You know he would pull guns on the whole family; he would tell us he was going to kill all of us and just do scary things and be a mean guy. Just because he liked control and power and he's just unhappy and he's a drug addict. But ... (pause) I don't know.
(00:33:37)
CLIENT: When we're little he would come home from the bars and he would just wham on my mom or just do really terrible things and it he would be screaming bloody murder. (Crying) and I would just listen all night long. And then go into my brother's room and I would stand in front of the door and make sure they didn't come out. He just ... he was just always there beating me. (Pause) (Heavy sigh) (Pause) He told my brothers that I was responsible for the divorce. That was the big thing too when we were older. He would always tell them that I was the reason that everything was so bad at home. Because I would instigate stuff with him. He would come home (pause) at you know 3 a.m. and he would sit in the kitchen above my bedroom every single night and make steak. Then he would sit in this one squeaky chair he had and watch T.V. and he would squeak the chair. And I would wake up and I would come upstairs and I would start screaming at him. And he and I would scream at each other and you know (pause) and that's just how every night went. And then you know and he would say things to my brothers like, "Jenny's a real bitch. Like she's the reason your mom and I have so many problems and ..." (sniffling) That's why my brothers and I had a hard time getting along for a while.
(00:35:19)
CLIENT: Because you know they resented me and tension I was creating. You know I'm fully aware of the fact that my dad was the bad guy in the situation. But it still, it's a weird power that is given to you when your dad tells you at thirteen years old that you're the reason that everything in the family is going wrong and the thing is it never made me feel bad. I didn't feel bad about it. I thought, "Great. I make this bad enough for you; if you hate me enough you'll leave. Good. Go." And that's all I thought. I didn't have this guilt where I felt like, "Oh my parents ... I hope I'm not responsible for whatever it's worth." I wanted to be responsible.
THERAPIST: I was thinking it's interesting because you know that him telling your brothers that you're responsible. I was thinking in some ways it's a compliment.
CLIENT: Mm-hm.
THERAPIST: I mean getting a sort of scary dangerous man out of the house is a good thing actually.
CLIENT: That's how I felt. My brothers didn't see it the same way because, you know he paid attention to them and he would throw the ball with them and do ... he still was scary and he still would do weird stuff like I'd come into the kitchen and he'd have my baby brother, five years old, both hands on his head and he's smacking him against sliding glass door for no reason. Like he'd still do weird stuff like that but he'd pay attention to them and like, you know play sports with them and tell them they were like ... you know he lives vicariously through my brother's career. He was really into. But for them they saw it like, "Why are you making our dad this bad guy?" And for me I always knew my dad's a bad guy whether I'm here or not. Like I want him to go. And I could ... you know he left when I was five for a year and he left when I was ten for a year. And even though we were alone for year and it was hard I loved it. I mean my mom probably didn't love it because it was hard. But whenever he came back it was awful. I wanted him to just go. But it is a weird, senseless power of control that you give to this, you know to this ... you know as a kid it is a weird sense of power that I felt like, "I'm responsible for this?" Then it's mixed bags. It's like; "Well I'm not that responsible because you're not going."
(00:37:46)
THERAPIST: What did your mom do during all of this?
CLIENT: For work?
THERAPIST: No. Well I didn't mean just for work, sure that too. Where was she?
CLIENT: I don't know. I don't know.
THERAPIST: Was she checked out?
CLIENT: Well she had to work a lot and when my dad came back the ... after my grandpa died when we were ten we had a lot of money but he still made my mom work. And so we would be at home alone and he would be there sometimes. And so that would always be bad. And then you know when stuff would happen she was there, she'd come you know like when I'd wake them up in the night like eventually she'd wakeup and she'd come out and then there'd be the whole family and everybody ... it's three in the morning and we're all standing in the kitchen screaming. And so she'd be there for the most part. Yeah I think she was just, you know I think she was just at a loss, like what ... you know eventually she gave him the ultimatum when I was fifteen and she said either you have to go rehab or you have to go. And he chose to go. And so that's just how he left it. But he didn't leave still ... I mean he left but he just continued to torment us for the next year. Just super scary. Like having to call the cops if he would just show up. We'd have to run all around the house locking all of the doors and sliding glass doors everywhere. And we would know when he was coming and then we would finally lock all the doors around the house and then we'd go to the basement and he would just stand at the door and he would just pound on the door for hours like a psycho. (Chuckle) And it was just so bazaar.
(00:39:50)
CLIENT: It doesn't even seem like real life any more. So it was like so far away. (Sigh)
(Pause)
THERAPIST: It sounds horrible.
CLIENT: It wasn't very nice.
(Pause)
CLIENT: It certainly wasn't normal. (Sniffling) Yeah. So I'm a little damaged. (Chuckle)
THERAPIST: How so?
CLIENT: Just it's not a normal experience. Just feel a little bit cheeky because of all of that.
(Pause)
(00:41:11)
THERAPIST: And how are you damaged?
CLIENT: I don't know, I just feel broken. Like I was never put together right. (Pause) Like I didn't get the chance to (pause) like to make myself, to like heal from what happened when I was younger. It'd have to be like a whole person to begin with. (Chuckle) (Sniffling) I feel like I never got the chance to be a whole person. Like I was always just turmoiled. There was always something with it. I'm not (inaudible_00:42:02). But I feel like it was just always shaky and I've always have just been shaky and I'm trying to not be anymore. But I don't know. (Pause)
THERAPIST: What does the brokenness look like? How are you broke?
CLIENT: Just empty and stuff. Just missing pieces. I just don't trust anybody. I don't ... I don't know. I just don't trust myself. I don't trust other people. Just feels like black inside. (Sniffling) Like everything other than sadness I don't feel genuinely. (Pause) Like this feels real. This feels like (pause) this feels okay for some reason. But other stuff doesn't feel quite real. Like it feels fake. (Sniffling) And I don't ... that's not normal. I know that's not normal.
(00:43:27)
CLIENT: Like this is what I would be most comfortable doing all day. (Laugh) Just sitting here and talking about everything bad. That would make me more comfortable than like sitting at my friend's house and watching football all day yesterday.
(Laugh)
CLIENT: I got ... and I don't know why.
THERAPIST: It feels honest.
CLIENT: Yeah. But what is that? Like why would I rather sit in a room and cry all day than go and be at my friend's house? (Crying) I don't like that. (Pause)
THERAPIST: I feel it's honest and you don't have to ... you're not running away from anything. You don't have to live in that fear. You're just confronting it.
CLIENT: Yeah. (Crying) But I don't want to feel like that forever.
THERAPIST: I know. I hear you.
CLIENT: (Crying) We have to stop, huh?
THERAPIST: Yeah. If you ever have a hard session and want to try to comeback that week, like today.
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: You can always call me and I will do my best.
CLIENT: Okay. Thanks.
THERAPIST: Sure. Okay.
CLIENT: (inaudible_00:44:49).
THERAPIST: I'm sorry?
CLIENT: I got your stool a little wet.
THERAPIST: No worries.
CLIENT: All right.
THERAPIST: Take care.
CLIENT: Thanks very much.
<b>END TRANSCRIPT</b>
