Transcript of Audio File:
______________________________________________________________________________
BEGIN TRANSCRIPT:
(background noise until 00:00:59)
THERAPIST: Hi!
CLIENT: Hi, how are you?
THERAPIST: I'm good, thank you!
CLIENT: It smells nice in here! I'm so happy I'm here today. I was having a really bad day yesterday. I was just really sad and I could figure out why. I just felt really sad and anxious the whole day. I just couldn't shake it. I tried to distract myself so I woke up at 9am – I had slept over at my friend's house – and I woke up at 9 am and I just left and walked home. It was like over an hour walk but I also just hate waiting around in other people's homes for them to wake up. (chuckle) I feel so awkward so I just walked home and I just immediately started feeling so anxious.
And then Chris was at home with our friend Jay because I had spent the night at his house (chuckle) and he spent the night. He and Chris had gone out and my friend, his wife, and I didn't want to go out so we stayed at their place. Anyway, so they were there and Chris and I...Chris had spent 80 dollars over our budget the night before so I was kind of irritated with him because I felt like, "Well that's rude!" since we had just had a huge talk about finances and everything the week before. But I knew he would already be feeling bad about it himself so I didn't want to get into it. I just felt like he already knows. He already feels bad about it. I don't need to drive that point home. We already discussed it last night. [00:02:47]
So I wasn't going to bring it up but then he and Jay, our friend, said, "Are you guys mad at us? Were you guys talking about us last night while we were out?" And we knew they had spent money and I said, "Yeah, we were! We were irritated. I would have loved to have gone out and gone shopping (chuckle) and spent 80 dollars on a blouse or something." But I stayed in with Jay's wife and we watched movies (chuckle). And I was like, "We would have loved to but we didn't, and you guys did so yeah, that's irritating." I kept saying, "You already know that. We don't need to discuss it." And Chris brought in something about, "You buy things over budget all the time!" He was feeling bad about himself, or about the situation, so he had to bring something in to make me feel bad. So he said, "You bought this rug!" (chuckle) This living room rug. And I said, "Yeah, it's 20 dollars from Ikea and the other one was disgusting. We have really bad allergies and it was filled with dust and we've had it for years so I threw it away and I spent 20 dollars at Ikea, yes I did!" (chuckle) And I said, "You're just trying to make me feel bad right now because you feel bad about what you did," and that really upsets me. [00:04:08]
We break our budget up every week so we each get – I take the cash out on Friday – and we each get a set amount. And I had 50 dollars left so I was going to take all three of us out to breakfast. It's just, I wanted to go to breakfast and I wanted them to come. (chuckle) And so I said...and I was just mad. And I was like, "Now you're trying to make me feel bad because you did something that you feel bad about. And I'm really frustrated with that!" (chuckle) And so I just got ready and I left. (chuckle) And I just told him...immediately he felt really bad. He was apologizing, apologizing, apologizing.
But I left and I went to breakfast by myself and met a friend at a market and just the rest of the day, I couldn't shake this uneasiness. I don't know if it's because we're going to Georgia on Thursday and I'm nervous about that. I don't know if it's...I've been thinking about moving to Massachusetts. I don't know exactly what it is but I just feel really sad and really... (pause). If I'm not letting myself feel sad then I just feel really anxious. [00:05:26]
And so I wanted to talk to Chris after I came home yesterday afternoon after I met my friend at the market. I wanted to talk to him about...just because I was feeling really anxious and I thought maybe if I talk I'll figure out what's going on. So I just started talking about the move and how I feel about it and I was saying I'm really nervous. I'm nervous about getting involved in drama with my mom's side of the family because there's a lot going on with them and they're all really catty and talk about each other a lot behind the other's backs and I don't want to be involved in that. And I'm nervous about being more involved with my dad's side of the family.
And I was just saying to Chris that I feel really nervous about that. And then he got upset, like, "Why are we doing this? Why are we moving to Massachusetts? The only reason I applied to jobs there is because it's where your family is. It's where you're from." And I said, "I know. That adds to my stress." I feel pressured that we're only going and moving to Massachusetts because my family's there and it's not something I...I don't know. I feel like I would feel anxious and nervous about any decision we have made. I know that I would feel nervous if he had taken a job here and we were staying here. If he had taken a job in California and we were moving there. If he had taken a job in some city we've never lived in, I'd feel nervous. I know that I would just feel nervous about any decision that was made. [00:07:00]
And I was trying to explain that to him. I really don't think that's a comforting thing for him to hear (crying). But he said, "We don't have to stay! If we go to Massachusetts and you're not happy and we aren't happy and it's not working there's nothing...Yeah it will be a hassle and yeah I'll have to retake the Bar somewhere else and yeah it's not going to be great, but we haven't signed our lives away to this situation." So that was comforting to hear but I still... (pause) I don't know. I just don't know.
THERAPIST: Well, certainly a very loaded issue and I think maybe it's even kind of heavier because you've been in therapy and you've been talking a lot about, God, a lot of pain and anxiety and conflict around growing up with your family and your family now too, not just growing up. So it's probably just adding to these, the anxiety of moving. [00:08:18]
CLIENT: I think so. That's what I was trying to explain. He said, "You know, I think you just overthink things. You just get so worked up about certain things and you can't get out of it." And obviously that's very true of me and a lot of why I'm here because I have a hard time working through things on my own. I do get stuck and I just feel like... (pause). But I don't know that I make a bigger...I mean, I guess I do. (pause) I get really sensitive about particular issues that for other people, it's not clear why I'd be sensitive about those things. But then (pause) I used to get really mad (chuckle) when the light would be on in the front room and Chris would be studying at night and I couldn't go to sleep. I can't sleep if there's any light on, at all. And I would really overreact and I would get really worked up about it. And so I would just explain to him growing up how I would know that my dad wasn't home yet or how I would know he had come home was all the lights would be on. And I would wake up immediately if there were lights because I would know that he was there. [00:09:39]
And instead of explaining that to Chris...to me that sounds really stupid. That sounds like a crush. When I have these things, instead of explaining them to people, I just get mad. And so I'll just be frustrated and huffing around. Like, "Well, if you're not going to sleep, I can't go to sleep." And I'll just pout and stomp about and that's not...and I was trying to explain that to Chris last night. Yeah, these things that maybe I feel...seem to you like I'm just being really sensitive, are things that I'm trying to figure out now, like where it comes from and why. And that it's okay to explain that to you. Even though in my head it feels really stupid, it's a valid thing I think. I'm just sensitive to light because that's how sleep patterns developed for me when I was a kid. I don't know if I'm ever not going to be sensitive to light when I go to sleep because that's just a part of my character. I don't know if that's ever going to change. And just being okay with that and just knowing that it's not stupid. That's just how it is. [00:11:06]
And I was just trying to explain that to him. (pause) I think it's probably a hard thing to understand. (pause) I've also tried to explain to him (pause) kind of what I was saying about my dad last week where (pause) I just don't...since he called me after Chris got his job and I've got his phone number now, how I just hate it and I just don't...(pause) I wish I just didn't talk to him. But then I feel really guilty and I hate feeling guilty about a guy that I hate. I don't like my dad. It's not a reciprocal relationship. I don't call him and he asks how I am. He calls me because his mom told him to call me so that I could give him good news. And then immediately he gives me a hard time for not calling him even though I haven't had his phone number for months. And a phone works two ways. [00:12:29]
And I tell him this great news that his daughter's husband has got a job as an attorney where he lives and his family is. And he says, "Oh, that's good." And then he asks what firm it is and he hasn't heard of the firm so he just...there's no more questions asked about it. And then he just goes into a diatribe about how lonely and depressed he is. It's like, ok...and then I feel really bad. He's lonely. He's depressed, oh my God. When I'm talking to him I'm like, "Oh thank..." Well, at least we're going to go down next week and we'll see him.
But it's like I don't care that you're lonely and depressed! You did that to yourself. You're a horrible man! You push everybody away and you treat people like garbage. What do you expect? The logical part of me thinks that and then the part of me that's his child thinks I have all this guilt that he's lonely and that his speech was bad. So then I'm worried about his speech. [00:13:38]
THERAPIST: Guilt about what?
CLIENT: That he's lonely. And that he doesn't have anybody and I don't call him, that I don't spend time with him. I don't see him and that I'm not involved with his life. And I don't know what he does. Guilt that he's just like...these weird feelings that he's by himself. He has nothing. He is totally alone and that's a weird things. That's weird! He's this 48 year old man who's had a stroke and he just sits by himself in his apartment smoking cigarettes all day watching war TV, or like the history channel. [00:14:28]
And, I don't know, that's the saddest thing to me. And it's frustrating. (pause) I just don't want to have a relationship with him (chuckle) I hate feeling guilty for something he did to himself. But I do. But I know that he did that. He put himself there. Everything that I'm feeling guilty about, he did to himself. He doesn't care about other people. He doesn't work on his relationships. He doesn't care about his health or physical wellbeing and so all of these things that I feel sad for him about are a product of his own...doing. He made steps every day, every year to get himself into that room. But it doesn't matter when I talk to him or when I see him. (pause) He'll hurt my feelings but I'll still feel guilty. He'll inevitably say something – even after (ph) our conversation – he'll hurt my feelings. [00:15:42]
But I still feel...and I still want...you know? And that's part of it. I bet you anything if he hits that, "Honey, I'm so sorry for not calling you," which is like laughable even me saying that pretend sentence.
THERAPIST: It would be nice to hear though.
CLIENT: Yeah, it would be nice to hear. And I don't think I would have these feelings. I don't think I would feel (pause) so confused and so conflicted. I feel really conflicted. (pause) I think the only thing that I'm looking for is something that he's never going to give me and I'm just going to keep looking for it for the rest of my life. He's just not going to give it to me, (pause) unless I ask for it, which I have. [00:16:41]
I've asked him directly, "Are you proud of me? Do you love me? Do you care about me?" And he just doesn't answer. It's like...you know? And I don't... (pause). I get such a dysfunctional feeling. This man was abusive to me and my family my whole life. I didn't like him. I hated him. I still hate him. But why do I...? (pause) It's like I just can't not care. (pause) It's very frustrating. (pause) Maybe I just don't know what to do with all this. (crying) (pause) Because it's like...that's been a feeling now for a good...well I guess that feeling has changed. But I think my hate...I think all of those feelings were always there, the hate was just the bigger component for a long time. And then just because I'm not involved in his life on a more regular basis anymore, and because he isn't doing things actively to me to cause me to dislike him or make me mad or hurt my feelings, that's where the hate just becomes just an equal part of all these feelings. [00:18:55]
And it's just easier to not talk to him. It was so much easier those few years when I just didn't talk to him. (pause) I don't know, is that the solution? Is that what I do? Do I just... (pause) I just don't know. I just don't think that that's a possibility really.
THERAPIST: Do you...to continue not talking to him?
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: What would you feel if you decided to do that?
CLIENT: (pause) I would feel initially a lot of guilt and then I would feel disconnected from my brothers and I would feel like...and then I'd feel nervous that it would affect money given to me from my grandmother if I'm being completely honest. Yeah, those would be the main feelings, guilt probably mostly. [00:20:16]
THERAPIST: Well guilt usually implies some sort of responsibility, either for causing the problem or not making the problem better, which is why I asked about the guilt before.
CLIENT: Yeah, like I have this...I feel like I can fix him. Is that what you're saying?
THERAPIST: Yeah, that somehow if someone is deeply sad you can feel bad for them but the idea that you feel guilty is sort of on an additional dimension.
CLIENT: Well, I've always had a heightened sense of self (chuckle). I've always felt like I could control situations that I absolutely can't control. And I think that's a product of from a young age being told, at the age of seven, that I was ruining my parents' marriage. It's like I think that really inflates a person's sense of self. And so I think because of that I feel...I've really felt like (pause) I maybe have control over certain things that I don't. [00:21:28]
And that's a tricky thing. And yeah, I can't make him better. Not only because (pause) that's just not within my power because he's the only one that can make himself better but he doesn't want to. He doesn't want me in his life. He just doesn't want me actively involved. And you can only support...even if my role in helping him to feel better was a role of support and a person to lean on and a person to talk to, he doesn't want that. He doesn't call me for...he'll call my brother and vent to my brother for 30 minutes and it really bothers him and it really irritates him. But I'm not that person for him. That's not a relationship. I make him very uncomfortable. [00:22:29]
My brother said that thing. Did I tell you that thing that my brother said? I had a few days off of work and I said, "I'm thinking about going down to Georgia and visiting Dad for a few days." And my brother said, "That's a terrible idea! You'd give him another stroke." (chuckle) And I laughed about it because I know it totally would be a terrible idea. And then I stopped...and like two [other seconds] (ph) I was like, "What do you mean I'd give him another stroke?" He's like, "You make Dad so uncomfortable! He doesn't know what to do around you. You freak him out."
And I knew that. I mean, it's obvious. But when my brother said it, it really hurt my feelings. But then at the same time it feels kind of good too because it goes back to that sense of power and control. Like, "I make you so uncomfortable and that kind of delights me. Like I kind of love that I make you so uncomfortable because you ruined me! You wrecked me! And so I love that I make you squirm." [00:23:37]
Part of me feels like, when my brother said it, it initially really hurt my feelings and I had to leave the room for a minute because I got a little teary eyed. And now it feels kind of like, "I love that," which is a really sick and twisted thing to think.
THERAPIST: Why do you say that?
CLIENT: It's unhealthy. That's not a healthy thing to think about your parent.
THERAPIST: What does that mean, healthy?
CLIENT: Well yeah, I guess it would. (chuckle) Nothing about that relationship is healthy so why would I...? But just like the fact that I enjoy that I make my dad so uncomfortable, I don't think that's a healthy feeling. I don't think that's normal to enjoy that. But nothing about our relationship is normal so why would I suddenly give this one portion of it? [00:24:41]
THERAPIST: Well what you describe is sort of constantly evaluating and judging yourself, almost picking at yourself, not letting yourself be.
CLIENT: Oh no! And Chris's right, I don't stop thinking. I don't stop. I know that everybody has plenty of thoughts in a day, but I'm so self-involved. I feel like I'm as narcissistic as he is. It's just...
THERAPIST: You just proved my point. (chuckle) I was saying how critical you are of yourself and you talk about you're so self-involved and narcissistic.
CLIENT: Exactly. See, I am!
THERAPIST: Did I say that?
CLIENT: No, I said that! (chuckle)
THERAPIST: I know you said that.
CLIENT: I know. I can't let myself be. I have to just be... (pause) I don't know.
THERAPIST: I mean, like how else are you supposed to respond to feeling so helpless growing up and to sort of derive some sort of safety and satisfaction in feeling very powerful? What else are you supposed to do? Just feel helpless? [00:26:04]
CLIENT: Right. No, absolutely. I feel like but now I've...because like, now like you said...or I feel like what you were trying to say is that I don't have any control over him. There's no control there. There's no...the only power I have is over myself and my actions, certainly not my crazy lunatic thoughts (chuckle) but that is something that I still really struggle with. And I just wish I could get a better grasp on that or just relax a little bit. Just relax. And I can't. (pause) [00:27:02]
And everything that I can't control drives me crazy. I've been working out – not like a loon (ph) – but I've been working. I got from this Groupon, I got a membership to a gym for a month for 20 dollars so I've been going to the gym and trying out these new classes and doing all this stuff and working out twice a day sometimes. And I've gained weight. I've gained weight! And it's infuriating. It makes me crazy. I eat really healthy, I like doing every...I walk four miles a day just in my regular work day. And then I'm working out sometimes twice a day on top of that. It's not normal. But my control issues (chuckle) infuriate me. That is more infuriating because it's like (pause) I'm trying to control this and I can't. I get on the scale and I can't control that number even though I'm putting in all this effort. It infuriates me. (sigh) [00:28:18]
And I just can't get my head around it. It's like, "Oh well! I'm healthier." No matter what, I'm healthier. But that doesn't matter. I just don't care. I don't want to hear that. That doesn't matter to me. I don't give a shit. I want to see numbers! (chuckle) I want to see difference! And I don't, so I lose it and I just get mad. I just need to relax is what I need to do. (sigh) I just...I don't know. [00:29:01]
I'm so excited to be going away this weekend, to be in the sun and be by the beach and then I remember (chuckle) my grandmother's going to be there and my dad's going to be there.
THERAPIST: Grandmother, oh yeah. That's going to be interesting.
CLIENT: I'm just very interested to see how this all goes. Chris's going to go golfing with my dad and my uncle. The image is just a riot to me.
THERAPIST: What is the image?
CLIENT: Well, so since my dad has had his stroke, his hands don't...he can't grip with his right hand very well. So he gets very frustrated when he has to do things like cut food or...so I think it's interesting that he's been golfing. I think it's great because it gets him out, whatever.
So there's my dad's personality, which makes Chris pretty uncomfortable, because he's unpredictable and he's hard to read and he makes everyone uncomfortable. There's my uncle who looks, sounds, and pretty much acts just like my dad. They look identical. But he's been successful. He's taken the money that his parents gave him and he's turned it into kind of like a real estate. He's done a bunch with real estate. He has a family who he really loves and really cares about and spends a lot of time with. He has his drinking problems. (chuckle) But he, for the most part, is my dad if my dad had cared about his family. [00:30:41]
And so my uncle gets really impatient with my dad. My dad gets really impatient with my uncle. And Chris has never (chuckle), at least I feel like, has never been around people like them. I don't feel like Chris really experienced addicts growing up. I mean, he just didn't. And addicts are just a particular breed of people that I feel like you, if you're not used to it, it can be really tense and really uncomfortable, even if you are used to it. [00:31:27]
So it's an interesting gamut (ph). He has to go golf with them. (chuckle) And he loves to golf. Chris loves golfing and a free round of golf is like his dream. But it's a very interesting image to me. When I think about Chris golfing with the other side of my family I'd think, "That's great! I really want him to get closer to them." But him golfing with them, I just think, "Oh my God, poor Chris." And there's nothing else...it's not like, "Well it will be good for them to spend time..." Nothing. None of that. Like, oh my God, this poor guy.
THERAPIST: Poor guy for...what do you image he'll experience that...? [00:32:14]
CLIENT: I just think he'll be uncomfortable and I don't want him to be like, "Oh my God, what are they going say? What are they going to do?" And then part of me thinks like, "Well, he'll get a better glimpse into..." I feel sometimes like I make my dad...Chris's seen my dad. Chris knows my dad is crazy. But I think sometimes he thinks I'm exaggerating a little bit. Because some of the things just sound fake. Some of it sounds fake. And I know that it sounds crazy when I say it but I feel like exposure to my dad just makes it so clear about how not fake it is (chuckle). Like, "No, I could definitely see this crazy person pulling a gun on his whole family." It's like, "Yeah, he probably would do that." [00:33:15]
Part of me feels like even though I feel bad for Chris that he has to be around them for an extended period of time and feel awkward and uncomfortable for four hours, part of me feels like, "Well, he'll maybe get to see a little bit of what I'm saying, understand me a little better." (sigh) I don't know. But I don't want Chris to understanding me a little better (chuckle) because of exposure to my dad. (pause) I want us to be away from that. I want to pretend that that's not a part of my life, almost always.
THERAPIST: It kind of makes it even harder to pretend "I'm moving to Massachusetts."
CLIENT: Yeah, it really does. Moving to Seattle makes that incredibly easy to do, makes it incredibly easy and incredibly acceptable to my family that I would only talk to my dad at Christmas. Makes it totally acceptable to them! They totally think that I could go to Georgia once a year and that would be fine, and everyone would...that would be fine. But living in Massachusetts and not having a relationship with him would not be acceptable. [00:34:33]
THERAPIST: One thing I wanted to bring up again, I thought about it maybe a few weeks ago and then again when you were saying yesterday was hard, do you want to revisit coming twice a week?
CLIENT: Yeah I do. I would like to do that. I don't know if you'd have any more morning or evening spots available.
THERAPIST: I do actually. I think a Wednesday morning time is going to open up soon. Because in the past I didn't have anything available on Wednesday morning but I think what would open up is a 7:15. Is that something that would work for you?
CLIENT: That would be great!
THERAPIST: I need to...I know I have that available this week and I think that will be a regular time.
CLIENT: Ok, great. Did you get my...I won't be around the next two Mondays.
THERAPIST: Oh, you sent me an e-mail? [00:35:36]
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: (sigh) I was having trouble with my e-mail account.
CLIENT: Oh no. Yeah, so this Monday I'll be in Georgia and then the following Monday I picked up a nanny share situation so I'll be watching an additional family for two weeks following...yeah it'll be next week and the week after but it will just be that one Monday that will be an issue. Yeah so the next two Mondays I won't be able to make but maybe if we could just do Wednesdays instead? Okay, that would be great.
THERAPIST: I'm sorry that you...yeah I was having trouble with my e-mail.
CLIENT: Oh, no problem! Yeah, I figured because you usually write back.
THERAPIST: Did you get an e-mail back saying that it didn't go through?
CLIENT: I did! I wondered what that was from! (chuckle) I was like, "Who would I e-mail that that wouldn't go through to?" And so I just deleted it but yeah that must have been it. That must have been it. [00:36:33]
THERAPIST: I'm sorry about that.
CLIENT: No, don't worry about it. Yeah that would be great. The thing is my anxiety has been much better overall and I am much more capable. I can handle it and I am able to... (sigh) sometimes I just feel sad. (pause) And then I think about, well maybe...I'm really afraid of medication, like really afraid of it. I don't know why. I'm super afraid of (pause) altering my brain chemicals. That makes me nervous. But I'm really afraid of needing it too. I would much prefer to just... (pause) I would rather feel sad for the next year. I'd rather feel really sad (chuckle) and do a lot of work than take medication for the next five years. Does that make any sense? I don't know if that's even an option. I feel like medicating myself is just like a patch. Does that make any sense? Like I feel like I'm putting a band aid over something. Is that not a thing? Am I totally mistaken? [00:38:13]
THERAPIST: Well yeah, I don't necessarily think that's what medication does (chuckle). But I'm more interested in how you're thinking about it.
CLIENT: Well I feel like... (pause) I feel like I really...like I obviously have some things that I need to work through. (pause) And even though that's really unpleasant and hard and I feel really sad, I'm okay with it if I feel like working through it will get me to a better place for myself. And I feel like (pause) I don't know. Because I was on Zoloft before when I was in high school and I didn't like it. I liked it at the time and then after a little while I was like, "I just don't have any feelings. I just feel...I don't feel happy. I don't feel sad. But I just don't have any feelings." (chuckle) (pause) [00:39:28]
So I don't know. I would rather...for me I equate the two...I feel like medication would make me feel better in the moment and not necessarily fix anything for me long term. That's my feeling on it. And maybe that's right, maybe that's wrong. I don't know.
THERAPIST: Well that actually may be true. So but I guess what's the problem with that?
CLIENT: The problem with that is that not doing the work to make myself feel better in the long term.
THERAPIST: So would you see medication instead of therapy?
CLIENT: No, but am I going to have this...I'm also just really afraid of messing with my brain. It really makes me nervous.
THERAPIST: Well, my first thought when you said...as I introduced coming or asking whether you wanted to come twice a week, and your next [few associations] after was about medication so it's clearly something that's on your mind. It's not something that I brought up. [00:40:44]
CLIENT: Oh no, no, no. It's totally on my mind, because I've just been...no, it's totally on my mind. I feel better since I started coming but I still have days where I feel really sad. And obviously that's never going to go away. Everybody is going to have days where they feel really sad, or sad, or different than happy. So obviously that's never going to change but I do know that sometimes my feelings, it's like, "I can't breathe!" And I know that that's not a typical realm of sad. That's anxiety. That's me being... (pause) I am not making any sense. I feel like I definitely could be helped. I feel like...I know that I could be helped by medication and so I try to...but that scares me. So I kind of try to talk myself out of it. I don't know why I brought up when we started talking about that. [00:42:04]
THERAPIST: Well I imagine part of it is just feeling like you need more.
CLIENT: Yeah, exactly.
THERAPIST: You need more help.
CLIENT: Yes, I do need more help. (sigh) I do.
THERAPIST: And I think that really worries you.
CLIENT: Well yeah (chuckle) it worries me first of all because in June I'm moving. So I feel like I'm going to have to start this process over with somebody different so that makes me nervous and uncomfortable and I just get nervous about depending on things. And I don't like needing (pause) outside stuff. (pause) How did I get married? (laughter) Like, how did that happen? (laughter) It just boggles my mind. Yeah, I guess that's what it is. I didn't connect that before. (pause) Now really, that scared the shit out of me. (chuckle) Like seriously, I'm afraid. I'm afraid of relying on you too much (chuckle/crying). [00:43:31]
THERAPIST: I mean, God, why wouldn't you be worried about that?
CLIENT: Yeah, like am I going to crumble? Am I going to be a hot mess and I can't pick myself up? What is going to happen? (pause) I'm going to lose it. And so I've been looking...well, if I can accomplish a physical goal...I'm like looking for all these outside things. Because I do feel like that's the other part of the thing with my weight is that I do know that if I could feel more confident it would help me feel better about myself and I feel a little bit happier. So I've been trying to...that's the other part that's so frustrating...(pause) I would just like to have...and in part of feeling better I know that part of it is gaining more self-esteem and more confidence. And I know that my body issues (chuckle) affect me in a lot of different areas of my life and I feel like if I could just gain confidence in that that would help. And trying to put all these little puzzle pieces together and this one that affects all these other things won't just do what I want it to do, really makes me mad. [00:45:02]
THERAPIST: Well it sounds like one of the things you're really worried about is allowing yourself to need this process or feel like you need me and then just having it go away.
CLIENT: Yeah. (pause) That makes me uncomfortable. (pause) And especially when I try to talk to Chris about some of the stuff that we talk about, he doesn't understand it. So I feel like (crying) "I need you to listen to me. I need to be able to talk about some of this stuff even if it's not pleasant because I'm just going to need you in that way." And for him to say yesterday that I just made a big deal about certain stuff made me feel like, (pause) "Well I can't rely on you for that I guess." But at the same time I can. He's really understanding about a lot of stuff. [00:46:12]
THERAPIST: You know "M", we're going to need to stop.
CLIENT: Okay.
THERAPIST: So I can meet this Wednesday. Do you want to meet this Wednesday?
CLIENT: Yeah, that would be great.
THERAPIST: And then the following two Mondays you can't.
CLIENT: No.
THERAPIST: Okay, is it because it's too late for you to get to...well Monday you'll be away.
CLIENT: [Oh that'd be right] (ph) but the following Wednesday, or the following Monday, I'm going to have to be at work at 7.
THERAPIST: Oh I see, that's early. Well if you want to look at that week and maybe I'll have...if you want to come in twice that week that week we can maybe look at something else too at another time.
CLIENT: Okay, that sounds great.
THERAPIST: Okay, great!
CLIENT: (sigh) Okay, thank you so much.
THERAPIST: Absolutely.
CLIENT: I feel much better.
THERAPIST: Good.
CLIENT: Alright, I'll see you on Wednesday.
THERAPIST: Okay, great!
CLIENT: Thank you so much! [00:46:57]
END TRANSCRIPT
