<font size="4"><b>Chapter 19: Visions of Revolution from the Spirit Of Frantz Fanon: A Psychology of Liberation for Counseling African Americans Confronting Societal Racism and Oppression</b></font>

SHAWN O. UTSEY


MARK A. BOLDEN


ANDRAE L. BROWN


<i>But the war goes on: and we will have to bind up for years
to come the many, sometimes ineffaceable, wounds that
the colonist onslaught has inflicted on our people</i>.


<i>From The Wretched of the Earth</i>
by Frantz Fanon (1963, p. 249)


RACISM AND OPPRESSION in the United States is insidious, pervasive,
and ubiquitous, and for those who experience it daily, the consequences can
be deadly. By definition racism does not exclusively victimize any one particularracial
group, but historically its impact has been especially brutal for
African Americans. Since arriving on these shores White Americans have
been relentless in developing, implementing, and enforcing social, economic,
and institutional policies based on rigid racial and cultural group
distinctions. Consequently, racism has become embedded in the social,
psychological, and institutional structure of White America (Essed, 1990;
Jones, 1997). Although racism is not limited to the United States of

[p. <i>312</i>]

For African Americans, the chronic strain associated with the experience
of racism and oppression has been implicated in the development of
several stress-related diseasesfor example, high blood pressure, stroke,
cancer, cardiovascular disease, substance abuse and alcoholism, and depression
(see Burke, 1984; McCord &amp; Freeman, 1990; Outlaw, 1993; Smith,
1985). The negative influence of racism in all of its forms and manifestations
(both overt and subtle: direct and indirect) permeates every aspect of
African American life, and as such, significantly infringes upon the quality
of life for this segment of the population (Essed, 1990; Jones, 1997; Semmes,
1997; Smith, 1985). In fact, the stress associated with the experience of evtations
racism ranks high on the list of problems African Americans bring to
the counseling process (National Institute of Mental Health, 1983, cited in
Priest, 1991). Given the pervasiveness of racism and oppression in the lives
of African Americans and its deleterious effects on the psychological and
somatic health of this population, it seems intuitive that counselors have
an ethical obligation to develop effective strategies for addressing these issues
with their African American consumers.


There have been numerous attempts by psychologists and other mental
health practitioners to address, in the context of counseling and psychotherapy,
the deleterious effects of racism and oppression on the psychological
well-being of African Americans (i.e., Abernethy, 1995; Lee, 1999;
Priest, 1991; Smith, 1985). For the most part, these interventions prescribed
traditional counseling techniques and strategies to address issues related to
the racism and oppression experienced by African Americans. However,
traditional approaches to psychology and psychotherapy are part of the problem
in that they maintain the status quo by encouraging the oppressed to
adapt to an oppressive social structure (Bulhan, 1985; Ivey, 1995). What is
needed is a culturally relevant approach to counseling that facilitates the liberation
of African Americans from societal racism and oppression through
consciousness raising and a collective action toward self-determination.


In this chapter, we integrate a psychology of liberation from a Fanonian
perspective in offering a more effective modality for counselors and other
mental health practitioners working with African Americans confronting
societal racism and oppression. In the first section, we introduce Frantz
Fanon the person and provide some background information so that the
reader may understand his personal and professional development as a revolutionary
leader and freedom fighter, mental health practitioner, and
visionary for the full development of the human spirit. In the next section,
for the purposes of establishing a context for understanding the experiences
of African Americans with racism and oppression, a sociohistory of the
"Black experience" in the United States is provided. Following the
sociohistory of the African American experience, we discuss the impacts of

[p. <i>313</i>]

<b>FRANTZ FANON:</b>


<b>PROPHET OF REVOLUTION</b>


Frantz Fanon remains a luminary in the fields of revolution, liberation,
and psychology. His impact on the world continues to reverberate from his
groundbreaking and revolutionary analysis of the impacts of oppression delineated
in <i>Black Skin, White Masks</i> (Fanon, 1967) and <i>The Wretched of the
Earth</i> (Fanon, 1963). Fanon was interested in the application of psychology
to healing the "tormented psyches" of those whom he referred to as the
"wretched of the earth. " Although Fanon's life ended at age 36, he gained
immortality through his applied theoretical contributions to revolutionary
reconceptualizations of the plight of oppressed people, the effects and process
of colonization, decolonization, and neocolonization, and the inevitability
of African liberation. In the context of liberation, Fanon's work
embodied and vocalized not only the Algerian spirit during the Algerian
war but spoke to the plight of all African descended people throughout the
diaspora, transforming him into a clarion call for the voiceless.


Fanon was born July 20, 1925, on the Caribbean island of Martinique
into a middle-class Black family. He was the middle child of eight siblings
and the youngest of four boys. By most accounts, Frantz had a close relationship
with his mother, whom he viewed as the stability and strength behind
the family. However, there was a strained relationship between Fanon and
his father; he felt his father had deserted the family, leaving his mother to
raise all eight children alone (Bulhan, 1985). As a child, Fanon was described
as creative, strong willed, crafty, courageous, and a natural leader. His commitment
to liberation was evident quite early in his development, as reflected
in his intense interest in the liberation of France from German
occupation (Bulhan, 1985). In fact, at age 17, Fanon left home to join the
armed services in the fight for France's liberation.


Fanon was well aware of the insidious nature of racism and oppression
on the island of Martinique (Fanon, 1963, 1967). He observed the overt acts
of racism, harassment, and sexual exploitation at the hands of the French
army who occupied the Caribbean island for most of his adolescence. Fanon
experienced personal encounters with racism and bigotry when he was stationed
in North Africa for military duty in the French army (Bulhan, 1985;
Fanon, 1963). There Fanon suffered humiliation based on his color at the
hands of White soldiers from French, Italian, and German forces (Bulhan,

[p. <i>314</i>]

Fanon's development as a revolutionary scholar and leader was greatly
influenced by his teacher and mentor Aime Cesaire. Cesaire coined the
term negritude and began to advocate that Blacks abandon their efforts to
assimilate into French culture and instead embrace their African roots. Being
among the most vocal critics of Western civilization at the time,
Cesaire was relentless in his attacks on French culture, describing it as a
civilization that is sick and morally decayed (Bulhan, 1985). Cesaire's influence
on Fanon was primarily at the level of critique and analysis of the role
of Black consciousness in the liberation of the oppressednegritude. Fanon
later broke with Cesaire because he felt the negritude movement lacked a
mechanism of transformation required for the liberation of the oppressed
and alienated (Bulhan, 1985). This departure with Cesaire and the negritude
movement demarcates Fanon's move toward a true revolutionary praxis for
the liberation of oppressed people in the African diaspora.


Having completed medical school, Fanon returned to Martinique for a
brief time where he practiced medicine as a general practitioner. He worked
in France for a while before going to Algiers for what would become his defining
work in psychiatry and revolution. In Algiers, Fanon witnessed the
brutality of the torture and repression heaped upon the indigenous population
by the French armed forces (Fanon, 1963). While there, Fanon had begun
secretly working on behalf of the Algerian liberation movement" Front
de Liberation Nationale" (FLN); he would later be expelled from Algeria for
his efforts toward the liberation of the Algerian people from French colonialism
and oppression (Bulhan, 1985). Fanon's participation in the Algerian
struggle for liberation made him the target of several assassination
attempts. While traveling in Mali, Fanon suddenly became ill, and in December
1960 he was diagnosed with leukemia. A year later, after completing
his most controversial work, <i>The Wretched of the Earth</i>, Fanon died in
Bethesda, Maryland. His remains were flown back to Algeria to be buried
beneath the soil he struggled to liberate (Bulhan, 1985).


<b>A SOCIOHISTORY OF THE AFRICAN MAAFA</b>


A psychology for the liberation of African Americans from the destructive
forces of White supremacy and domination must be grounded in the
social and historical experiences of this population. Fanon (1963) believed
that all problems of the human condition existed inside the context of
sociohistory and culture. Furthermore, he posited that theories that ignore

[p. <i>315</i>]

<i>Maafa</i> is Kiswahili for "Great Disaster" and refers to the forced dislocation
of millions of Africans from their families, communities, and cultural
reality and their subsequent enslavement under a violently brutal system
of chattel slavery that existed throughout the Western Hemisphere (Ani,
1994). During the Maafa, Africans were captured and, enslaved, marched to
the west coast of the African continent where massive ships awaited them
for transportation to strange and foreign lands. During these infamous middle
passages, men, women, and children were chained together in the hull
of the enslavement ships in squalid conditions (e.g., human waste, vermin,
unbearable heat, death, and disease) for a journey that often lasted between
8 and 12 weeks (Everett, 1991). Upon arrival at various destinations, the
enslaved Africans were separated from husbands, wives, and children and
then sold into a system of perpetual servitude that in the history of humanity
remains unequalled in its violence and brutality (Everett, 1991; Stampp,
1956).


Chattel slavery in the United States was a unique and complex economic
and social institution whose operation and maintenance required
the total submission and complete obedience of the enslaved African. A
necessary ingredient for maintaining the system of chattel slavery that
existed in the United States was the absolute debasement and dehumanization
of the enslaved Africans. The African was viewed as an inferior being,
occupying a status no different from that of domesticated animals
(Everett, 1991; Stampp, 1956). Another important component of the enslavement
process was to effectively sever the African from any cultural
ties with Africa (e.g., language, religion, and music) while at the same time
voiding them of any sense of personhood (Akbar, 1984, 1996; Morgan, 1985;
Pinkney, 1993).


Under the institution of chattel slavery, all aspects of the enslaved lives
were dictated according to the rigid social, psychological, and physical controls
implemented by the slavoracy (Akbar, 1984; Everett, 1991; Stampp,
1956). According to Stampp (1956), the collective strategy for the maintenance
of such absolute control was carried out by several methods. First,
slaveholders had to establish and maintain strict discipline, whereby the
enslaved must willingly obey at all times. In addition, the enslaved needed
to accept their personal inferiority and status in perpetual servitude as
the natural order of things. To instill a sense of awe in the enslaved African,
the slaveholders often demonstrated their enormous power and control
over the enslaved to the degree that it produced a constant state of fear in the

[p. <i>316</i>]

Whites relied on social, scientific, and biblical rationalizations to protect
themselves from any sense of collective guilt that might result from
the inhumane treatment of other human beings and to justify the brutal and
horrific systematic enslavement of African people as a source of forced
labor (Stampp, 1957; Pinkney, 1993). For example, by distorting the biblical
story of Noah the American slavocracy attempted to convince themselves
and the American public that Africans, as evidenced by their black skin,
were the descendants of Ham who had been cursed by God for transgressions
against Noah, his father (Thompson, 1977). Another rationale used to
justify the enslavement of African people was that in addition to their innate
inferiority the Africans were a separate and subhuman species of humankind
for whom perpetual servitude was the natural order (Thompson,
1977). It was reasoned that the Africans, who were "uncivilized" and "barbaric,"
would in fact benefit from their servitude under the highly "civilized"
and "cultured" White race (Pinkney, 1993). Such justifications for
the forced servitude of Africans, though obviously flawed and irrational,
would eventually become permanently incorporated into the psychological
and social consciousness of White America (Jones, 1997; Pinkney, 1993)
and Black America (Akbar, 1984, 1996; Wilson, 1990).


Although chattel enslavement legally ended at the conclusion of the
Civil War in 1865, the status of African Americans changed little over the
next few decades (Pinkney, 1993). For a brief time during Reconstruction,
and under the watchful eye of the Union Army, African Americans did enjoy
a few privileges associated with being full participants in a free society
(Pinkney, 1993). However, shortly thereafter, the Union Army left, and
almost immediately "black codes" were enacted to restrict the rights of
African Americans and maintain White supremacy as the law of the land
(Everett, 1991; Pinkney, 1993).


Many of the myths developed and maintained about the innate inferiority
and deficient moral character of African Americans to justify keeping
them in bondage were now used to keep them from being full participants
in American society. African Americans were segregated from Whites in
education, employment, and public accommodations (Pinkney, 1993).
There were laws against interracial marriages; just the thought of intimate
relations with a White woman could prove fatal for an African American
male (Everett, 1991; Pinkney, 1993). According to Stampp (1957) and
Pinkney (1993), Whites strictly enforced the racial codes of conduct governing
the behavior of African Americans, often by means of unspeakable
acts of violence (e.g., lynching, burnings, castration, beatings, and intimidation)
(Everett, 1991; Stampp, 1957). There are several historical accounts
(e.g.,Tulsa, Oklahoma; Rosewood, Florida) of the mass murder of African

[p. <i>317</i>]

With the death of Reconstruction, Whites wasted no time institutionalizing
White supremacy. Race became the dominant factor in the social,
economic, and political structure of American society (Pinkney, 1993;
Semmes, 1997). Several major Supreme Court rulings served as the vehicle
that officially relegated African Americans to a subordinate status in society.
For example, in 1883 the Court ruled that the Civil Rights Act of 1875,
which made it a crime to deny any citizen equal access to public accommodations,
was unconstitutional (Pinkney, 1993). Additionally, in the 1896
<i>Plessy v. Ferguson</i> case, the Court ruled that racially segregated facilities
mandated by law were not in violation of the Thirteenth and Fourteenth
Amendments to the U.S. Constitution. The majority opinion of the Court
declared that the inherent racial inferiority of African Americans could not
be undone by any provisions in the Constitution (Pinkney, 1993).


During the first half of the 20th century, America would experience
many changes, but the status of African Americans would remain relatively
static. Although African Americans would engage in constant
struggle for their civil and human rights, and in some cases win major
concessions to undo government-sponsored segregation (Pinkney, 1993),
little could be done to change White America's perception of African Americans
as being innately inferior and subhuman. The tenets of White
supremacy had become so well ingrained in the consciousness of White
America that they soon found expression in almost all aspects of American
life (Akbar, 1984; Feagin, 1991; Pinkney, 1993). By the time Jim Crow had
been dismantled and African Americans were, in theory, entitled to equal
protection under the law and access to public accommodations, racism and
White supremacy had become a permanent fixture in the psychological,
social, political, and economic landscape of American society.


<b>RACISM AND OPPRESSION:</b>


<b>INSTRUMENTS OF WHITE SUPREMACY AND DOMINATION</b>


If you do not understand White Supremacy (Racism)what it is, and how
it workseverything else that you understand, will only confuse you.


(Fuller, 1969, p. A)


<b><i>White Supremacy</i></b>


Several renowned scholars have examined the psychological and cultural
mechanisms of White supremacy and global domination emanating
out of the European worldview and survival thrust (Ani, 1994; Fuller, 1969;
Kambon, 1998; Welsing, 1991; Wilson, 1998). White supremacy is defined

[p. <i>318</i>]

The system of White supremacy and domination is perpetuated and
maintained through violence, cultural hegemony, and the myth of European
superiority (Ani, 1994; Fanon, 1963; Kambon, 1998; Sutherland,
1993). The European worldview, which values rugged individualism, dominance
over nature, competition, materialism, and aggression, is congruent
with a White supremacy orientation toward relations with others (Ani,
1994; Kambon, 1998; Myers, 1993). According to Welsing (1991), it is the
culture/system of White supremacy and its thrust toward the global domination
of "people of color" that produces the phenomenon called racism.
Fuller (1969) posits that in spite of any self-professed economic and political
independence on the part of individuals of color, all "non-White" people are
victims of White supremacy.


<i><b>Racism</b></i>


Essed (1990) defines racism as "a complex aggregate of prejudice and
discrimination based on an ideology of racial domination and oppression"
(p. 11). Fanon (1964) recognized that traditional racism, grounded in vulgar
notions of the biological inferiority of certain racial groups, usually dark-skinned
people, had become transformed into a more sophisticated and insidious
form of cultural racism. Jones (1997) describes racism as "resulting
from the transformation of race prejudice and/or ethnocentrism through
the exercise of power against a racial group defined as inferior, by individuals
and institutions with the intentional or unintentional support of the
entire culture" (p. 280).


Jones (1997) posits that the experience of racism is multidimensional
and can be classified using the following tripartite typology: (a) <i>individual
racism</i>experienced on a personal level, (b) <i>institutional racism</i>racism
embedded in the policies of a given institution, and (c) <i>cultural racism</i>the
cultural practices of one group lauded as superior to that of another. Essed
(1990) extends the individual realm of racism to include <i>collective racism</i>.
Collective racism occurs when organized (or semi-organized) Whites/non-Blacks
seek to restrict the rights of Blacksfor example, when a Black family
moves into a White community and is met with open hostility by its
new neighbors.

[p. <i>319</i>]

<b><i>Oppression</i></b>


Freire (1970) views oppression as an act or acts of violence that by its
very nature interferes with a person's ability to evolve as a complete human
being. He defines oppression as any attempt by an individual and/or group
of individuals to exploit and/or block/hinder a person's and/or group's pursuit
of self-determination. The highest form of oppression is what Bulhan
(1985) termed "autocolonialism," which occurs when the victims of White
supremacy, consciously or unconsciously, participate in their own
oppression.


Not only is oppression achieved and maintained by violence, but the
violence gradually permeates all aspects of the social order, whereby it impacts
the everyday lives of the oppressed (Fanon, 1963,1967). In the course
of time, such violence becomes normalized, camouflaged, subtle, and at
some point embedded in the institutional and psychological reality of society.
The violence of oppression, once established in the culture, consumes
and dehumanizes both the oppressed and the oppressor (Bulhan, 1985;
Fanon, 1963, 1964).


<b>IMPACTS OF RACISM AND OPPRESSION</b>


A normal Negro child, having grown up within a normal family, will become
abnormal on the slightest contact with the White world.


(Fanon, 1967, p. 142)


According to Wilson (1998), the most nefarious tool of White supremacy
and domination is psychic violence. Psychic violence is unrelenting in
its impact on the collective African American psyche and is perpetrated
through the media and other cultural outlets in words, symbols, images,
and misinformation that instill a sense of false consciousness, self-alienation,
and self-hatred in the minds of its victims. Given that African
Americans are confronted daily with a constant onslaught of psychic violence
by a hostile, anti-Black society, many are at risk of experiencing some
form of psychological, emotional, social, cultural, and/or spiritual decomposition.
Consequently, the dislocation and distortion of the African spirit/
reality and the imposition of an alien spirit/reality and worldview (European)
will produce behaviors that are self-defeating, self-destructive, and
counter to the liberation of African people (Akbar, 1984; Ani, 1994;
Kambon, 1992, 1998; Wilson, 1998).


In the context of American society, the institutionalized violence of
racism and White supremacy is so sinister and ubiquitous that its victims
are very often unable to fully recognize it in all its forms, even when personally
experienced (Akbar, 1984; Feagin, 1991; Jones, 1997). Firmly held

[p. <i>320</i>]

<i><b>Impacts of Prolonged</b></i>


<i><b>Exposure to Racism and Oppression</b></i>


Paulo Freire (1970) coined the phrase "fear of freedom" to describe the
psychological process whereby the oppressed are bound by the parameters
of the relationship between themselves and their oppressor. The term <i>prescription</i>,
used to characterize the relationship between the oppressor and
the oppressed, represents the imposition of the oppressor's reality onto the
reality structure of the oppressed (Freire, 1970). Having adopted the reality
of the oppressor, the oppressed are fearful of freedom. To achieve freedom
would require the oppressed to reject the reality of the oppressor and replace
it with their own. Having adapted to the social order of domination and subordination,
the oppressed are resigned to accept their oppression as destiny
(Akbar, 1984, 1996; Freire, 1970).


Fanon (1967) prescribed a sociogenetic approach to a psychology of liberation
for the oppressed based on the concepts of <i>internalization</i> and
<i>objedification</i> (Fanon, 1967). In this framework, internalization is the process
wherein external, sociohistorical reality becomes incorporated into
the psyche of the oppressed. Objectification, on the other hand, is the process
whereby man, through his own efforts, achieves congruence between
himself and his external reality. Fanon understood that through the mechanisms
of oppression, specifically a social structure based on the domination
of others, a person is unable to achieve self-objectification and is prone to
internalize the negative identities associated with the psychological assaults
heaped upon him or her by the social institutions seeking to maintain
their oppression.


According to Fanon (1967), a person's obsessions, anxieties, inhibitions,
and contradictions are not the result of the unconscious but the manifestation
of the internalization of conflict in the social order as well as
restrictions imposed on one's liberty. Fanon posited that the denial and/or
abdication of liberty is directly related to psychopathology with regard to
its definition, etiology, and symptom expression. According to this perspective
, psychopathology is the manifestation of sociohistorical and cultural
conflict in persons with a low threshold for tolerance. In this regard,

[p. <i>321</i>]

Fanon (1963) believed that adopting the cultural reality of the oppressor
and abandoning one's own resulted in a profound sense of alienation for the
oppressed. He proposed the following five aspects of alienation as a reaction
to conditions of oppression:


1. Alienation from the selfto be alienated from one's personal identity


2. Alienation from the significant otherestrangement from one's family or
group


3. Alienation from the general othercharacterized by violence between
Blacks and Whites


4. Alienation from one's culture and historyestrangement from one's language
and history


5. Alienation from creative social praxisdenial and/or abdication of self-determination
and of socialized and organized activity, which is at the core
of the realization of human potential.


Similar to Fanon, Akbar (1984) proposed that African Americans who
adopt the worldview of the oppressor experience alienation. He developed
an Africentric classificatory system of four mental disorders that result
from the assimilation of an alien worldview by people of African descent
(see Kambon, 1998). The first, <i>Alien-Self Disorder</i>, is characterized by a
conscious-level rejection of one's African reality, a denial of the reality of
racism, and the active attempt of African Americans to emulate a European
worldview/reality. The second, <i>Anti-Self Disorder</i>, shares some characteristics
with Alien-Self Disorder but has the added element of covert and
overt hostility toward all things African. The third, <i>Self-Destructive Disorder</i>,
reflects the ineffective and destructive attempts of African Americans
to cope with the unnatural conditions of White supremacy and domination.
The fourth, <i>Organic Disorder</i>, refers to the physiological and/or bio-chemical
diseases having their etiology in the oppressive conditions typical
for the victims of White supremacy (e.g., ecological racism, poor nutrition,
and substandard health care).


Kambon (1998), another Africentric scholar, proposed that African
Americans who are alienated from their "natural African self-consciousness"
experience <i>Cultural Misorientation</i> (CM), which, according
to Kambon, is the net result of the European cultural oppression experienced
by African Americans that disconnects them from their natural
African cultural reality. African Americans who prescribe to an individualistic
orientation, express and/or exhibit anti-African/Black behavior,
manifest self-depreciating or self-destructive tendencies, or are exploitive
and/or hostile to other African Americans are seen by Kambon as suffering
from the mental disorder Cultural Misorientation. According to Kambon,

[p. <i>322</i>]

<b><i>Acute Racism Reactions</i></b>


In addition to the impacts of long-term exposure to racism and oppression,
African Americans are at risk of experiencing a number of acute racism
reactions. We propose that there are six racism-related reactions that
characterize African Americans' response to the psychological and physiological
processes associated with the experience of racism and oppression.
Although the reactions may occur simultaneously, each response is distinctive
in its functionality and interpretation by the respondent. The
racism-related reactions are as follows: (a) race-related trauma, (b) racismrelated
fatigue, (c) anticipatory racism reaction, (d) race-related stress/
distress, (e) racism-related frustration, and (f) racism-related confusion.
The following sections provide further explanations of the racism-related
reactions and examples of their physical and psychological manifestation.


<i>Race-Related Trauma</i>


<i>Race-related trauma</i> is the spiritual, psychological, and physiological
devastation that African Americans experience following exposure to
stressors involving the direct personal experience, that is, victim, witness,
learning of the actual or attempted death/injury to one's person, or other
threat to one's physical integrity on the basis of their race, skin color, or as a
result of the vicious and aggressive encroachment of oppression and White
supremacy. Symptoms associated with race-related trauma include recurring
thoughts and/or nightmares regarding the traumatic event, anxiety,
fear, sleeplessness, and depression. Race-related trauma is not a pathological
reaction per se but a logical and predictable response to racism and
oppression.


Events that potentially trigger the onset of a race-related traumatic episode
include being victimized with regard to housing or employment discrimination,
race-based exclusion from goods and services, humiliation
and degradation in public places, witnessing and/or experiencing mob violence
(i.e., lynching, being attacked by a hate group), and being harassed,
detained, arrested, and/or beaten by the police or other law enforcement
personnel. Notable race-related events that have traumatized the collective
psyche of African Americans include the dragging death of James Byrd
in Jasper, Texas; witnessing the videotaped beating of Rodney King; the
brutal beating and sodomy of Abner Louima by New York City police; the
murder of Eleanor Bumpers by New York City police; or the murder of
Amadou Diallo, also by New York City police (note that this list is hardly

[p. <i>323</i>]

<i>Racism-Related Fatigue</i>


<i>Racism-related fatigue</i> is the tremendous psychological and physiological
exhaustion that African Americans experience as a result of and in
response to the chronic exposure to racism and oppression. Racism-related
fatigue is a physiological manifestation of the constant, sweltering, and
grinding toll that the individual experiences in combating racism, oppression,
and White supremacy daily. The more determined the struggle against
racism and oppression, the more taxing on one's ability to maintain focus in
daily routine tasks, concentrate, or participate in activities that require
physical exertion.


Similar to the physical fatigue one experiences as a result of exhaustive
training and the chronic fatigue that women experience while pregnant,
racism-related fatigue is just as exhaustive and debilitating, making daily
chores and routine tasks challenging and at times impossible. The causality
of racism-related fatigue often goes unrecognized because of its coupling
with the daily challenges of lifebalancing family, school, intimate relationships,
and financial obligationsand work environments.


<i>Anticipatory Racism Reaction</i>


An <i>anticipatory racism reaction</i> is a defense mechanism that African
Americans develop after being the victim/recipient and or combatant of racial
discrimination and racially motivated hostility. The development of
the anticipatory racism reaction is necessary and functional as it forces the
individual to remain aware at all times in all situations involving Whites,
based on their previous interracial experiences. Although functional for
self-protection and environmental awareness, the extreme amount of energy
that the individual expends while attempting to maintain this high
level of awareness increases his or her anxiety, becoming too taxing and
burdensome to sustain.


The fear and threat of being attacked results in a state of hypervigilance
for African Americans who are constantly confronted with personal and
shared experiences with racism and oppression (Essed, 1990; Feagin, 1991).
Even in a perceived nonthreatening environment, the mechanisms of anticipatory
racism reaction are unable to disengage, consequently making
the situation uncomfortable for others. The effort which the individual
must exert in anticipation of a race-related incident occurring may be more
anxiety producing and stressful than the anticipated encounter itself
(Essed, 1990).

[p. <i>324</i>]

<i>Race-Related Stress/Distress</i>


Chronic exposure to racism and oppression has been shown to have a
deleterious effect on the psychological and physical well-being of African
Americans (Utsey, 1997; Utsey &amp; Payne, 2000). Racism is viewed as a major
source of stress in the lives of African Americans, thereby resulting in increased
incidences of stress-related diseases (Outlaw, 1993). Stress is recognized
as a person-environment encounter that is appraised as relating to
one's well-being and taxes or exceeds the persono's resources to cope with a
situation (Lazarus &amp; Folkman, 1984, cited in Outlaw, 1993). In this regard,
encounters with racism and oppression result in an acute source of stress
for African Americans.


Symptoms associated with <i>race-related stress/distress</i> include the onset
of tension headaches, muscle tightness, inability to concentrate, intrusive
thoughts regarding a specific racism encounter, and a general sense of
anxiety and tension. Moreover, race-related stress/distress may result in
greater susceptibility to minor (e.g., common cold, flu) and major (e.g., hypertension,
cancer) illnesses due to a weakened immune system.


<i>Racism-Related Frustration</i>


<i>Racism-related frustration</i> occurs when African Americans believe
that they are powerless over the treatment they receive because of their
race. This experience often results in feelings of anger, irritability, aggravation,
disappointment, dissatisfaction, and lack of fulfillment and
satisfaction. Encounters with racism and oppression that are neither traumatic
nor life-threatening are still bothersome and upsetting. The individual
involved in the incident recognizes that the encounter is both
unnecessary and frivolous but must be entertained and managed until a
conclusion is reached. If the situation is not resolved, closure cannot occur,
and the individual will remain frustrated until a new racism encounter is
experienced and the existing frustration is magnified.


<i>Racism-Related Confusion</i>


<i>Racism-related confusion</i> is a reaction that occurs when an individual
in the midst of an onslaught of racist exchanges continues to ask, "Who
am I?" (Fanon, 1963). In addition to this consuming question and search for
identity in an oppressive society, the oppressed, now psychologically and
physically fatigued, are left to function in bewilderment. Other questions
now need answering: "What is going on?" "Who's problem is this?" and the
unanswerable "Why me?" While in this state of racism-related confusion,
the oppressed begin to look at events and individuals differently. Things
that were once certain are now uncertain; positions known are now unknown.
As the oppressed are continuously attacked and placed in compromising

[p. <i>325</i>]

<b>A PSYCHOLOGY OF LIBERATION</b>


<b>FROM A FANONIAN PERSPECTIVE</b>


<i>Eurocentric Psychology:</i>


<i>Instrument of Oppression</i>


Several scholars have noted the historical complicity of Western/Euro-American
psychology in the service of White supremacy and domination
(for an in-depth review of the history of racism in psychology, see Guthrie,
1998,- Thomas &amp; Sillen, 1972). Psychology was, and continues to be, used to
justify the domination of Black people and other oppressed groups. It has
been through the malevolent lens of Western/Euro-American psychology
that African Americans have been, and continue to be, maligned and portrayed
as psychologically, emotionally, and morally deviant. Therefore,
Eurocentric psychology (i.e., Western/Euro-American) must be placed
within its historical context of the conquest, domination, and demonization
of African people. Moreover, given that Eurocentric psychology is a
tool of White supremacy and domination, it is not amenable to the liberation
of oppressed people.


Traditional psychological theories as well as contemporary psychotherapy
function as an instrument of social control rather than a mechanism
for social change (Bulhan, 1985; Ivey, 1995). The focus of modern
psychotherapies is one of self-compromising adjustment to the status quo
of oppression as opposed to a praxis for liberation, which by definition encourages
resistance from the domination of an oppressive social structure
(Bulhan, 1985; Comas-Diaz, Lykes, &amp; Alarcon, 1998). Traditional Western
psychotherapy has as its goal personal adjustment, adaptation, developing
increased self-worth, competence, and individual autonomy. In traditional
approaches to counseling and psychotherapy, the responsibility is with the
individual to effect change in one's own life in order to increase one's personal
happiness. The individual is seen as the primary facilitator for establishing
the conditions amenable to healthy psychological and social
functioning. Moreover, traditional forms of counseling and psychotherapy
are ineffective for use with oppressed populations because they tend to ignore
an individual's status in the social order.


Approaches to counseling and psychotherapy that focus solely on an
individual's social and psychological well-being do not serve the interest of
those who are oppressed. Counselors and other mental health workers are
ill advised to focus on the individual rights and needs (i.e., autonomy, selfesteem,
etc.) of persons from oppressed groups; instead, the focus should
be on obtaining the collective liberty of the group (Bulhan, 1985). An

[p. <i>326</i>]

<i>A Psychology of Liberation</i>


Power and liberty are of course never given; they are demanded, taken, and
assumed. For if and when "given," they are at best conditional, often
superficial, and readily "taken away."


(Bulhan, 1985, p. 276)


A psychology of liberation requires a paradigmatic shift for psychologists
and other mental health practitioners (healers) for developing more
appropriate interventions for working with oppressed populations (Bulhan,
1985; Comas-Diazet al., 1998; Ivey, 1995; Parham, White, &amp; Ajamu, 1999).
Efforts toward the liberation of African Americans must be directed at
changing causes, not just a reduction in associated symptoms. Moreover,
healers seek to help the oppressed empower themselves to solve their own
problems as opposed to fostering dependency and powerlessness (Freire,
1970). Instead of encouraging the individualization of oppression-related
syndromes, healers must push for a collective action among the oppressed
that has as its goal the deconstruction of the oppressive social order
(Bulhan, 1985; Wilson, 1998). Essential to the deconstruction of the oppressive
social structure is raising the awareness of oppressed persons regarding
the nature and consequences of their oppression, including the historical
and societal context of White supremacy and domination (Freire, 1970;
Comas-Daz et al., 1998).


A psychology of liberation does not focus on the immediate and private
distress of individuals but encourages members of oppressed groups to view
their predicament as a collective experience requiring a collective response
(Bulhan, 1985). Individuals are helped to understand how collectivism,
interdependence, and intersubjectivity are the natural order of human behavior
(Kambon, 1992, 1998; Myers, 1993). In working with the oppressed,
healers must place all diagnostic conceptualizations and interventions in a
sociohistorical context (Bulhan, 1985; Comas-Diaz et al., 1998; Fanon,
1963, 1967; Nobles, 1990; Parham et al., 1999). Furthermore, effective work
with the oppressed must be based on them defining their own problems,

[p. <i>327</i>]

Self-determination is an essential ingredient for the authentic liberation
of any people. It is the process and capacity to make choices, exercise
control over one's behavior, and to ultimately influence one's destiny
(Bulhan, 1985; Freire, 1970). In the context of psychotherapy, it follows that
a main goal of the therapeutic intervention with people who are oppressed
is to foster, encourage, and facilitate self-determination. The quest for self-determination
requires the process of identifying and defining the self
through an internal, historical lens, identifying and defining the nature of
the problem (White supremacy), and identifying and proactively working
toward the solution of the problem (Bulhan, 1985; Comas-Diaz et al., 1998;
Freire, 1970; Parham et al., 1999). The generational mission is fulfilled
when the generation works toward the solution but is betrayed when the
problem persists unchallenged (Fanon, 1963).


Interventions based on a psychology of liberation are only concerned
with change. This change is usually aimed at the social institutions and
organizational structures that oppress (Bulhan, 1985). The organized efforts
of the oppressor and his or her institutions must be countered with the
reorganization of the institutions and activity of the oppressed (Bulhan,
1985; Fanon, 1963). The counselor/healer seeks to empower through organizing
and mobilizing people in an effort to effect change in the social structures
that are responsible for the oppression of the client (Bulhan, 1985;
Fanon, 1963). Goals must be defined, programs developed to carry out the
aims of the goals, and the oppressed called to collective action in implementing
changes to the oppressive social structure (Bulhan, 1985). Healers
must ground their interventions in the development of a comprehensive
plan, including strategies and tactics for achieving liberation (Bulhan,
1985).


A psychology of liberation encourages the empowerment of the oppressed
through organized and socialized activity aimed at the restoration
of personal biographies and a collective history that had formally been distorted
and denied or been placed within the context of the oppressive social
structure (Fanon, 1963). Under conditions of oppression, reciprocity and
equality are nonexistent (Ani, 1994; Kambon, 1998). Under conditions of
oppression life becomes morbid and the individual and collective sanity of
the people is tenuous given the infringement on the time, space, energy, and
identity of those being oppressed (Bulhan, 1985).


It becomes difficult, near impossible, for the person to develop a sense
of self-integrity when they continuously experience psychological and
emotional assaults from the violence of their oppression (Fanon, 1963,
1964). Given the constant onslaught of the violence of White supremacy
experienced by the oppressed it is appropriate and often necessary for counselors
to assist with immediate relief from the effects of the insult and
injury experienced in the face of racism and oppression (Bulhan, 1985;

[p. <i>328</i>]

<i><b>The Working Alliance:</b></i>


<i><b>The Liberator and the Liberatee</b></i>


A psychology of liberation must break with the paradigm that maintains
a therapist-patient power inequity, lack of reciprocity in the therapeutic
relationship, and elitism that parallels the existing oppressive social
structure (Bulhan, 1985). A situation in which the therapeutic relationship
is itself a mirror of the social order that maintains oppression cannot result
in healing for the oppressed but simply serves to preserve the status quo of
oppression. In fact, terms such as patient and client should be discarded because
they perpetuate the power inequity and dependency inherent in traditional
counseling relationships (Ivey, 1995). For the purposes of this
discussion, we use the term "person(s) seeking liberation" to refer to individuals
of African descent in the process of struggling for their liberation.


Given that the primary task of the healer/clinician is to restore liberty
to the oppressed, the therapist must maintain an active role in the therapeutic
process. The context and site of action for the therapist's work is
society and the oppressive social structure that denies the oppressed liberation
(Bulhan, 1985; Fanon, 1963). It is important that persons seeking liberation
be afforded their own space, time, and respect for their privacy and
that no immediate demands be made on the persons' liberty nor questions
raised regarding their personal appearance. The persons are accepted for
who they are but challenged to evaluate their current state of existence in
an oppressive social order (Bulhan, 1985; Comas-Diaz et al., 1998).


In work with members of oppressed groups, attention must be given to
the therapeutic alliance and problems inherent in the relationship between
the therapist and client (Bulhan, 1985). White therapists may be prone to
view the Black client as defined solely by the pathology of oppression. Another
common pitfall is to avoid discussions of race and oppression altogether,
invoking the illusion of color blindness. Black therapists may
experience their own sense of conflict around their Blackness and attempt
to avoid discussions of race or they may overidentify in an effort to work
through their own insecurities around their group membership status. Another
source of difficulty for the Black therapist is the potential for mistrust
stemming from their social class status.

[p. <i>329</i>]

<i><b>African-Centered Approaches</b></i>


<i><b>to the Liberation of African Americans</b></i>


An Africentric framework, as applied to the liberation of African Americans,
places the needs and interests of African-descended people at its center.
It allows African Americans to draw upon the "best African cultural
practices" (Sutherland, 1993; T'Shaka, 1995) for self-preservation, self-determination,
and ultimately liberation. Africentric psychology is realized
in systemic-based practices that seek to find the divine expression
within the relationships of humans to each other, to their environment,
and to the Creator (Myers, 1998). The key components of Africentric psychology
are balance, reciprocity, harmony, rhythm, collectivism, a focus on
spirit/spirituality, and connecting humans with their environment and the
universe (Kambon, 1998; Myers, 1999).


The philosophical assumptions of Africentric psychology are grounded
in an African worldview and are best articulated according to its ontological,
epistemological, and axiological framework. According to Myers
(1999), in the African ontological perspective the nature of reality is both
spiritual and material. At the epistemological center of the African
worldview is the notion that self-knowledge is the foundation for all
knowledge. It is through symbolic imagery and rhythm that the individual
knows. The axiological perspective of the African worldview holds that interpersonal
relationships among people are the most important component
in the realm of human values. In the African worldview, there is a union of
opposites, and all things are interrelated through human and spiritual networks
(Myers, 1999).


The Africentric approach uses a both/and approach to epistemology; it
is holistic, rational and intuitive, thus developing whole thought based on
cognitive, affective, and emotive factors. The Africentric paradigm is also a
practice-based paradigm and does not exist solely in the realm of mere
thought. Asante (1990) notes that Africentricity "seeks agency and action"
(p. 19). The usefulness of Africentricity for the African in America is
grounded in the African culture, which is a dynamic expression of African
reality. Therefore, based in this diasporic context, the Africentric paradigm
employs healthy cultural practices derived from Africa and those that African
Americans have developed while on these shores. An example of soul
expression unique to African Americans is the advent of jazz. Jazz epitomizes
Africentrism because it consciously employs values that reflect African
philosophythat is, spontaneity, rhythm, harmony, and rational and
intuitive processes (Hester, 1999).


Africentrism in the therapeutic context focuses on consubstantiation,
the interconnectedness of divine or universal spirit within all entities (Nobles,
1990). With spirit as a focal point, one goal for an Africentric approach
to therapy is to illuminate the spirit (Kambon, 1998; Nobles, 1990), which
in the Fanonian context requires a raising of consciousness. Raising

[p. <i>330</i>]

the claim to a natural culture in the past does not only rehabilitate that
nation and serve as a justification for the hope of a national culture. In the
sphere of psycho-affective equilibrium it is responsible for an important
change in the native. (p. 170)


Rituals allow the African American to strengthen the connection with
positive ancestors, develop more community-mindedness and create the
sacred time-space (Ani, 1990) that allows the transcendent, transformative
nature of spirit to exist (Agyei &amp; Akoto, 1998). Stewart (1999) notes that
"through ritualization ... that which is alien and alienates and dislocates
being and spiritual vitality becomes harmonized and ordered through the
ceremonial invocation of the spirit and power of divine reality" (p. 23).
Thus, rituals establish an African sense of time that insulates African
American reality from the limitations of the European ethos (Ani, 1994)
and reconnects the African American to the realm of spirit.


It has been noted that consciousness raising and ritual are two approaches
to revolutionary liberation for the African. Consciousness raising
should develop what Sutherland (1997) calls an authentic struggler who
strives "for the liberation of productive forces and the enhancement of African
person's psychological, military, economic, cultural, social, spiritual,
and political progress" (p. 59). Akoto notes that
<cit>
<q>
</q></cit>

historical consciousness ... involves the adoption of new criteria for life;
where Afrikan centered values and definitions dictate the rhythm of one's
life. This new consciousness corresponds in part to Fanon's "Fighting
phase" where the formerly culturally alienated are completely reenculturated
in such a way that their identification with their own culture is
complete, and their commitment to battle for its existence and development
is conceived. (p. 25)

[p. <i>331</i>]

The first level of action needed is a program of community psychoeducation
to provide a framework for understanding White supremacy,
oppression, and the impacts of slavery so that African Americans understand
the nature and context for their relationship to the oppressor (see
Akbar, 1996; Ani, 1994; Armah, 1979; Fanon, 1963, 1967; Welsing, 1991).
This becomes vitally important so that African Americans understand that
many of the conditions endemic in the Black community (e.g., poverty,
crime, alcohol and substance abuse, and stress-related diseases) are the result
of White supremacy and oppression, not some innate weakness in the
character structure or personalities of African-descended people. This first
step and all the others can be achieved through community forums held at
cultural institutions, community agencies, and churches and should
achieve the goal of preventing race-related confusion. This step would
allow the community to address the following questions: "What is the
condition of African Americans, and why are African Americans in this
condition?"


The next level of the psychoeducation process is for the community to
understand, revitalize, and embrace the traditional African concepts of reciprocity,
harmony, and order, which will allow African Americans to
understand their extended family relationship to each other while simultaneously
preventing the continued practice of self-negation and autocolonialism
(see Armah, 1979; Agyei &amp; Akoto, 1998; Fanon, 1963, 1967;
Nobles, 1990; T'Shaka, 1995). This step should not only teach culture but
use culture to teach (i.e., using libations to begin meetings, seeking spiritual
advice from elders for decision-making processes, developing a healthy
village to raise a healthy child, etc.). This step will allow African Americans
to answer the questions "Who were we before we lost our way, and who will
we be under our new way?"


The third level of action requires the community to conceptualize its
optimal functioning based upon African-centered health, which should decrease
incidences related to the organic disorders and some stress-related
acute-racism reactions (e.g., hypertension, diabetes, cancer, and stroke).
Semmes (1996) notes the influence of racism and oppression on the dietary
habits of African Americans, specifically the widespread consumption of
unhealthy foods having their origin in the enslavement experience (i.e.,
"soul food"). Moreover, the lack of adequate exercise among African Americans
results in poorer health and shorter life expectancies. Institutional
racism has led to a scarcity of adequate medical care available in the African

[p. <i>332</i>]

The fourth level of action requires the use of material and human resources
to promote economic stability that will achieve the liberation of
African Americans by attending to basic biological needs, the ability to be
self-sufficient, and the production of the necessary goods for the self-determination
of the community (see Akbar, 1996; Kambon, 1998; Wilson,
1998i.e., recirculating money in the Black community, starting and
supporting Black-owned businesses, working toward being a productive
member of the African American community, preventing capitalistic materialism,
etc.). Moreover, economic stability allows for political consciousness
and the ability to effect radical change based on a viable means of
African-centered politics, which is predicated on a strong economic base
(Wilson, 1998). Along with political consciousness, economic development
should be guided by the principles of African cosmology so as to
understand how the divine order affects our notion of production and reciprocity
with the earth's natural resources. Harmonizing the collective
efforts of African Americans would "provide the economic platform for
launching the African American community into the mainstream of
international trade and commerce and thereby to permit it to provide sub-stantially
greater employment and economic opportunities for its constituents"
(Humphreys, 1994, cited in Wilson, 1998, p. 591).


The final and most important level of action is spiritual liberation. The
African spirit has been the most viable strength of African liberation (Ani,
1990; Stewart, 1999). Thus, accessing this strength through ritual is imperative
for the liberation of African Americans. African American spirituality
pervades all domains of life, and due to the African survival thrust
(Kambon, 1992, 1998) the spirit has protected and preserved the African
American as much as the African American has used spirituality as a source
of survival (Stewart, 1999). African metaphysical systems are one way to
access the spirit (Ani, 1990). In addition, the Black church has historically
served as a source of strength for preserving the African spirit (Asante, 1990;
Stewart, 1999). Another practical way to access the spirituality, or spiritness
(Nobles, 1990), of African Americans is to establish rites of passage
(Arewa, 1998).


Rites of passage create community and allow for the elders to become
an integral part of the African American liberation by imparting their wisdom
and experience to the youth. Rites of passage are a ritualistic approach
to adult development that imparts education, vocational development,
ethical responsibility, moral maturity, and internal/spiritual identification
for the youth. Rites of passage help each individual understand one's

[p. <i>333</i>]

Spiritual liberation will result in a communal effort toward achieving
the freedom of African Americans through the common denominator of
consubstantiation. Spiritual liberation is guided by spirit and sees spirit in
all areas of struggle. Consequently, it seeks to distinguish the deep structure
from the surface structure, the spiritual from the physical, the macro
universe from the micro-man, and subsumes all of the previous processes of
liberation. African American liberation may only exist when all Africans
have the freedom to express the soul in sacred-time-space. This along with
the aforementioned goals is intertwined and inseparable, as is the African
to the African spirit and the inevitability of African liberation (see Ani,
1990; Fu-Kiau, 1991; Nobles, 1990; Stewart, 1999). In short, spiritual liberation
is the ultimate level of consciousness raising.


In addition to strengthening the spiritual nexus, the plight of oppressed
Africans in the diaspora and on the continent must be recognized and
viewed as one struggle (Nobles, 1998; Sutherland, 1993; Wilson, 1998).
Dual liberation struggles (T'Shaka, 1995), of continental and diasporic African
liberty, allow the proper self-analysis of African Americans as non-minorities,
by virtue of the global African community. Dual liberation also
allows Africans in America and throughout the diaspora to internalize a
global consciousness that supersedes tribalism, the glorification of geographically
based ethnic differences (i.e., identify as African American,
Jamaican, Haitian, etc., as opposed to African), and "saline consciousness"
(Soyinka, 1990), the notion that Africa and Africans exist only within the
confines of the coastlines and that only people and events within Africa are
African. As the ravages of White supremacy are a global phenomenon, it is
necessary for African Americans to understand, and acknowledge that, at
the core, they are an African people.


<b>SUMMARY AND CONCLUSION</b>


The work of Frantz Fanon has not received adequate attention in the
psychological literature with regard to applied approaches to counseling
and psychotherapy. Fanon provided a framework for conceptualizing a psychology
of liberation for African people throughout the diaspora who are
oppressed (Bulhan, 1985). In this chapter we argued that African Americans
continue to suffer deleterious effects related to their chronic exposure to invidious
forms of societal racism and oppression. Furthermore, we noted
that, although psychologists and other clinicians have attempted to address

[p. <i>334</i>]

A psychology of liberation requires a paradigmatic shift among psychologists
and other mental health practitioners so as to develop more
appropriate interventions for working with oppressed populations. Efforts
should be directed at changing causes, not just symptom reduction. Counselor-activists
must seek to empower the oppressed, thus allowing them
to solve their own problems as opposed to fostering dependency and powerlessness.
Moreover, instead of encouraging the individualization of oppression-related
syndromes, counselors must push for a collective action
among the oppressed that has as its goal the deconstruction of the oppressive
social order. An Africentric approach to counseling African Americans
toward liberation is recommended, given its consistency with Fanon's belief
in a culturally relevant praxis for the liberation of the oppressed.


<b>REFERENCES</b>


Abernethy, A. D. (1995). Managing racial anger: A critical skill in cultural competence.
<i>Journal of Multicultural Counseling and Development, 23</i>, 96-102.


Agyei, K., &amp; Akoto, A. N. (1998). <i>The Sankofa movement: Re-Afrikanization and the reality
of war</i>. Hyattsville, MD: Oyoko InfoCom.


Akbar, N. (1984). <i>Chains and images of psychological slavery</i>. Jersey City, NJ: New Mind
Productions.


Akbar, N. (1996). <i>Breaking the chains of psychological slavery</i>. Tallahassee, FL: Mind Productions
&amp; Associates.


Ani, M. (1990). <i>Let the circle be unbroken: The implications of African spirituality in the
diaspora</i>. New York: Nkonimfo Publications.


Ani, M. (1994). <i>Yurugu: An African-centered critique of European cultural thought and
behavior</i>. Trenton, NJ: African World Press.


Arewa, C. S. (1998). <i>Opening to spirit: Contacting the healing power of the chakras @ honoring
African spirituality</i>. London: Thorson's.


Armah, A. K. (1979). <i>Two thousand seasons</i>. Chicago: Third World Press.


Asante, M. K. (1990). <i>Kemet, Afrocentricity, and knowledge</i>. Trenton, NJ: African World
Press.


Bulhan, H. A. (1985). <i>Frantz Fanon and the psychology of oppression</i>. New York: Plenum.


Burke, A. W. (1984). Is racism a causatory factor in mental illness? <i>International Journal of
Social Psychiatry, 30</i>, 1-3.


Comas-Daz, L., Lykes, M. B., &amp; Alarcon, R. D. (1998). Ethnic conflict and the psychology
of liberation in Guatemala, Peru, and Puerto Rico. <i>American Psychologist, 53</i>, 778-792.


Essed, P. (1990). <i>Everyday racism: Reports from women of two cultures</i>. Claremont, CA:
Hunter House.


Everett, S. (1991). <i>History of slavery</i>. Secaucus, NJ: Chartwell Books.


Fanon, F. (1963). <i>The wretched of the earth</i>. New York: Grove.


Fanon, F. (1964). <i>Toward the African revolution</i>. New York: Grove.


Fanon, F. (1967). <i>Black skin, White masks</i>. New York: Grove.


Feagin, J. R. (1991). The continuing significance of race: Antiblack discrimination in public
places. <i>American Sociological Review, 56</i>, 101-116.


Freire, P. (1970). <i>The pedagogy of the oppressed</i>. New York: Continuum.

[p. <i>335</i>]

Fu-Kiau, K. K. B. (1991). <i>Self healing power and therapy: Old teachings from Africa</i>. New
York: Vantage.


Fuller, N. (1969). <i>The united independent compensatory code/system/concept: A textbook/
workbook for thought, speech and/or action for victims of racism (White
supremacy)</i>.


Guthrie, R. V. (1998). <i>Even the rat was White: A historical view of psychology</i> (2nd ed.).
Boston: Allyn &amp; Bacon.


Hester, K. E. (1999). Parallel streams of consciousness. In K. E. Hester (Ed.), <i>Issues involving
innovative Afrocentric art forms: The call and response journal of the Africana
Studies and Research Center at Cornell Univesity</i>. Ithaca, NY: Hesteria.


Ivey, A. E. (1995). Psychotherapy as liberation: Toward specific skills and strategies in
multicultural counseling and therapy. In J. G. Ponterotto, J. M.; Casas, L. A. Suzuki, &amp;
C. M. Alexander (Eds.), <i>Handbook of multicultural counseling</i> (pp. 53-72). Thousand
Oaks, CA. Sage.


Jones, J. M. (1997). <i>Prejudice and racism</i> (2nd ed.). New York: McGraw-Hill.


Kambon, K. K. K. (1992). <i>The African personality in America: An African-centered framework</i>.
Tallahassee, FL: Nubian Nations Publications.


Kambon, K. K. K. (1998) <i>African/Black psychology in the American context:</i> Tallahassee,
FL: Nubian Nation Publications.


Lee, C. C. (1999). Counseling African American men. In L. E. Davis (Ed.), <i>Working with
African American males</i> (pp. 39-53). Thousand Oaks, CA: Sage.


McCord, C., &amp; Freeman, H. P. (1990). Excess mortality in Harlem. <i>New England Journal of
Medicine, 322</i>, 173-177.


Morgan, J. C. (1985). <i>Slavery in the United States: Four views</i>. Chapel Hill, NC:
McFarland.


Myers, L. J. (1993). <i>Understanding an Afrocentric world view: Introduction to an optimal
psychology</i> (2nd ed.). Dubuque, IA: Kendall/Hunt.


Myers, L. J. (1998). The deep structure of culture: Relevance of traditional African culture
in contemporary life. In J. D. Hamlet (Ed.), <i>Afrocentric visions: Studies in culture and
communication</i> (pp. 3-14). Thousand Oaks, CA: Sage.


Nobles, W. (1990). African philosophy: Foundation of Black psychology. In R. L. Jones (Ed.),
<i>Black psychology</i> (pp. 47-63). Berkeley, CA: Cobb &amp; Henry.


Nobles, W. (1998). To be African or not to be: The question of identity or authenticity
Some preliminary thoughts. In R. L. Jones (Ed.), <i>African American identity development</i>
(pp. 185-206). Hampton, VA: Cobb &amp; Henry.


Outlaw, F. H. (1993). Stress and coping: The influence of racism on the cognitive appraisal
processing of African-Americans. <i>Issues in Mental Health Nursing, 14</i>, 399-409.


Parham, T. A., White, J. L., &amp; Ajamu, A. (1999). <i>The psychology of Blacks: An African centered
perspective</i> (3rd ed.). Upper Saddle River, NJ: Prentice Hall.


Pinkney, A. (1993). <i>Black Americans</i> (4th ed.). Englewood Cliffs, NJ: Prentice Hall.


Priest, R. (1991). Racism and prejudice as negative impacts on African American clients in
therapy. <i>Journal of Counseling and Development, 70</i>, 213-215.


Semmes, C. E. (1996). <i>Racism, health, and post-industrialism: A theory of African American
health</i>. Westport, CT: Praeger.


Smith, E. M. J. (1985). Ethnic minorities: Life stress, social support, and mental health
issues. <i>The Counseling Psychologist, 13</i>, 537-579.


Soyinka, W. (1990). <i>The African world and the ethnocultural debate</i>. In M. K. Asante &amp;
K. W. Asante (Eds.), African culture (pp. 13-38). Trenton, NJ: African World Press.


Stampp, K.; M. (1956). <i>The peculiar institution: Slavery in the antebellum South</i>. New
York: Random House.


Stewart, C. F. (1999). <i>Black spirituality and Black consciousness: Soul force, culture, and
freedom in the African American experience</i>. Trenton, NJ: African World Press.


Sutherland, M. (1997). <i>Black authenticity: A psychology for liberating people of African
descent</i>. Chicago: Third World Press.


Thomas, A., &amp; Sillen, S. (1972). <i>Racism and psychiatry</i>. New York: Carol Publishing.


Thompson, A. O. (1977). Race and color prejudice and the origin of the transatlantic slave
trade. <i>Caribbean Studies, 16</i>, 29-59.

[p. <i>336</i>]

T'Shaka, O. (1995). <i>Return to the African mother principle of male and female equality:
Volume 1</i>. Oakland, CA: Pan Afrikan Publishers and Distributors.


Utsey, S. O., &amp; Payne, Y. (2000). Psychological impacts of racism in a clinical versus normal
sample of African American men. <i>Journal of African American Men, 5</i>, 57-72.


Utsey, S. O. (1997). Racism and the psychological well being of African American men.
<i>Journal of African American Men, 3</i>, 69-87.


Welsing, F. C.(1991). <i>The Isis papers: The keys to the colors</i>. Chicago: Third World Press.


Wilson, A. N. (1990). <i>Black-on-Black violence: The psychodynamics of Black self-annihilation
in service of White domination</i>. New York: Afrikan World Infosystems.


Wilson, A. N. (1998). <i>Blueprint for Black Power: A moral political and economic imperative
for the twenty-first century</i>. New York: African World Infosystems.


Correspondence regarding this chapter may be addressed to Shawn O. Utsey, College of Education
and Human Services, Seton Hall University, 40 South Orange Avenue, South Orange, NJ
07079 (e-mail address: Utseysha@shu.edu).

