Transcript of Audio File:
______________________________________________________________________________
BEGIN TRANSCRIPT:
CLIENT: Voice-mail. (inaudible background conversation)
THERAPIST: Good morning.
CLIENT: Howdy. My voice-mail is funky, it doesn't always download. It shows the voice-mail and it -
THERAPIST: Yeah, oh.
CLIENT: - (inaudible at 1:25) kind of thing in zero seconds.
THERAPIST: I've had that one. I've had the one where I'll get a message and it's three hours after somebody left it. You can also check if you...if you go under voice...if you go to the dial pad and you just push one, it will go to your -
CLIENT: It'll call your voice-mail?
THERAPIST: Yeah.
CLIENT: I dialed my number -
THERAPIST: Yeah.
CLIENT: - (inaudible at 2:00) we'll see.
THERAPIST: Yeah.
CLIENT: So there was a brief moment where I actually was kind of unstressed. And I think it was because I got all my filing of lawsuit and serving of summons out...out of a period of a day and a half on Tuesday and Wednesday. So I think there was some relief there, but - I don't know. Last night I went to take my medication late and I just... and I'm just like standing there just kind of wondering how I got to this point. And recognizing that there's no way to go back in time and just wondering where I was going to end up.
So I guess there was a time when I kind of knew things were building up against me financially. And I had been nervous early on when I was working with Ray, and just Ray alone, that I had all my eggs in one basket. And that's why I started doing the estate planning. But I kind of built on that a little bit with the Bank, and with Claire, and with Karl, and Phil, and Levi. But everything kind of got pulled out from under me at once. And now even E&G; which was a source of, "Well, someone will come in and replace Ray. And hopefully, a better relationship will be good and there's...there's promise there."
THERAPIST: Right. [4:14]
CLIENT: But not getting a number of deals that I need. And I'm getting a lot of...there was a lull in the title examinations, but I just got four orders yesterday. One of them in Barnstable, they said, "You do Barnstable County." And I'm just like - even though it's a pain in the ass to drive. I got to drive to Framingham to get copies of everything. I can do everything else online. But I've got enough free time in my life to spend the gas, drive down there, and still make the $175. Which is...I'm calculating the time I'm spending on these things and to some degree it's the same amount of money that...that Jess is making on her state-appointed cases. But in some instances it's more or some instances it's less, I guess it kind of averages out. But I need...I would need four or five of those to come in everyday - [5:28]
THERAPIST: Yeah.
CLIENT: - to live off of it.
THERAPIST: Yeah.
CLIENT: And not just all at once and then be there for a couple weeks. And like this - I imagine some of these are going to close at the end of April, and some will probably drag out into May. So it's like I'm not going to see the money on these until next month. And I got to pay my...my landlord up in Pembroke and there's just not a whole lot of money there.
And I got to buy a cage for the fucking dog. And the bank has no fucking clue what they're doing. The appraiser puts the booking page of what the deed is which they get from the assessor's office, but in the interim the woman had added her husband to title which changes the booking page. Which doesn't immediately get changed at the assessor's office, there's a lag. And they called me weeks ago on this issue, and I called back and left a message explaining. And then, all of a sudden, she calls me again saying it's an (inaudible at 6:47) like we never had that conversation before. So I send her the new deed, and Lord knows when that's going to close. It just... I don't know. It's just everything is just frustrating.
And got fucking soccer starting for practice tonight. And I got to get my tax stuff done, taxes for this year, tax stuff for the last couple $8,000 plus...it's more like $9,000. It's above - IRS and DOR to figure all that out and fill out the forms which I haven't done. I've asked Jess several times for her - they told me to look back at your last three statements and figure out your expenses. And I've asked her and asked her, but...and she hasn't gotten them to me. Because she has a separate bank account now which is fucking everything up in my book because I can't keep track of it.
I don't know, it's just I no longer really feel like I have control over anything. I feel like I'm getting...it's spring, so things are getting busy with Handball and soccer. And I get...I over, I think, emphasize how much time something is going to take to do. Like the...the tax stuff, I just got to print some stuff off and Quick...put it in QuickBooks and (inaudible at 8:48). And I stress out over that though it's something that should take me a half hour tops. So it - add all these things up and by 1:00 or 2:00 today, I'm going to be done. And I feel like I'm going to be pressing it, but - [9:11]
THERAPIST: All right. When you say, "By 1:00 or 2:00, you're going to be done," do you mean like -
CLIENT: Have the things I -
THERAPIST: - you'll be finished? In a good way, you'll be done?
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: Okay. I wasn't sure if you meant -
CLIENT: Right.
THERAPIST: - like, "Ahh, I'll be done," or like you'll be...you'll have completed things. You mean the -
CLIENT: Yeah, as I look at it in -
THERAPIST: Yeah.
CLIENT: - advance, I...I don't see like that.
THERAPIST: Right.
CLIENT: I stress out over - and I wake up today and I'm like, "Oh, why don't you push this off until Monday?" I just - (pause) I mean, there's a part of me that just doesn't care anymore. I don't - [9:54]
THERAPIST: Now, I see it in here, like that same kind of thing that you're talking about where you won't...like going to this anxious litany of things you have to do or things that are going wrong in a way that really keeps you from being able to think. And it also keeps things at a kind of a concrete level where it makes it harder for us to talk about sort of what's going on emotionally. Or how we can understand why you're so stuck or things like that. Do you know what I mean? [11:06]
CLIENT: Yeah, I...it's like yesterday, I had a productive morning. They sent me a rush title or that they wanted today only that they...the other paralegal ordered it yesterday. So it's like, "Do they really need it today?" But it's almost done, so that's one of the things that I'm going to do today. But I left E&G;, and we went and checked out another space to meet, and that was a waste of time. And then I came home, took the dog on a...a nice, long walk because he hadn't been on a good walk in a couple days.
And they sent an e-mail out about uniforms needing to be picked up, and my team was on there. And one of my parents was on there. So I - "Well, why don't I just go fucking pick those...pick them up and take them to the practice or the game or - " neither parent has responded to me that they got my e-mail. Which I know I do the same thing too. I get an e-mail, and I don't reply back thanks or some confirmation so. But I'm sure they've gotten the e-mails, they just haven't said thanks or -
THERAPIST: Yeah.
CLIENT: - confirm that...showed some confirmation that they got it. And I'm just...get into this rut of the same thing every night where I'm playing poker on the phone and watching TV. And at 10 o'clock last night the registrar - because I was conversing back and forth with the coordinator about one of the kids on my team that signed up late, so they weren't on my rooster. And the dad is like, "I'm not getting any e-mails, we signed up late."
THERAPIST: Right. [12:53]
CLIENT: And I said, "Well, you're not in my rooster." And I figured everything would just kind of catch up, and I didn't do anything about it. But then last night, they sent an e-mail about Weightless, (sp?) so I said, "Oh, Jed is signed up late, and I didn't see him on my rooster. But he's played the last three seasons with us." And the coordinator is like, "Oh, that's fine," and cc'd the registrar. And is like, "We need - I don't - " basically saying she has nothing from him. That there was no registration, and that they need it by today for him to play tomorrow. So I'm e-mailing them at 10 o'clock last night.
And just - I don't know. I mean, it's almost like soccer is becoming a bigger - there's a coach's clinic on Tuesday. And they're really kind of ramping up the teaching part of the game and getting Youth... Youth Soccer involved, and they'll be on...in April. Instead of playing our games, we'll...you run through drills with the... the person from Youth... Youth Soccer. They'll run us through drills for a half hour, and then we'll play for a half hour. It's just like, "Make my life easier and just let us fucking play games."
THERAPIST: Yeah. [14:15]
CLIENT: I know it's better for the kids, but your...your - I don't know. I feel like they've...they just complicated everything for me. And I know this Ian is...is excited to play soccer, but I'm not excited about the season. I haven't thought about what drills I'm going to run them through. The game is a bunch of stuff, and they have lesson plans for the week when we meet on Saturdays. But for my practices it's just...it's a free-for-all. I have trouble controlling the kids, and I don't have the patience.
And Ian drives me nuts during these practices, just doesn't listen to me, doesn't...it's practicing, shooting goals, and he's like, "I want to be goalie." And it's like, "We don't have goalies, and that (inaudible at 15:17) we don't need you to do that. We want - you need to practice shooting." And he just doesn't listen to me. And Jess does not pay attention at all, she's just off gabbing with someone. Every time I look over, she's just gabbing with one of the parents. And it's just - no one is paying attention to what their kid is doing. It's like the two worst kids are the assistant's coach's kid and my kid. It just...always causing problems or having some meltdown or - I don't know. It just - I don't know.
So I'm just standing with the cabinet right in front of the microwave last night taking my medicine just like, "Where's this going?" I'm like, "Doing yoga," it's like, "Yoga is not going to change my financial situation. It's not going to improve my career." It's not going to - I don't - I mean, I'm just like, "I'm on all these medications, but I'm like" - it just - I don't know. I just - I'm like, "Is yoga really going to make it that much of a difference for me to get me off of these medications? And am I going to be motivated enough to... to do the things?"
Because I mean, I've...I was playing all...a lot of Handball and doing a lot of exercise and it helped to some degree, but...it's still anxious, still depressed. It's like there's...there's no - I just don't see a solution to any of it. I'm just not motivated to do any of this. And - I don't know.
Jess keeps telling me how she spent $4,000 on the kid, when is the...when is the modification going to...when we going to hear about that? It's just a constant reminder of the crappy things in my life. I know I'm kind of jumping around, but - (pause) [18:20]
THERAPIST: It seems to me you're wavering between venting about it and really trying to think about it.
CLIENT: When I think about it, it's a...all it does is make me feel like crap. And -
THERAPIST: Well, and that makes it harder to keep thinking about, but I don't think that means it's useless to think about. [18:51]
CLIENT: Yeah. It feels like when I'm working that I just want to go home and just kind of do my...play poker and watch TV. But while I'm playing poker and watching TV, I'm like...I find that to be stressful. I'm fucking getting pissed off because they're showing the same fucking commercials over and over again. Or just - English, (ph) the show I'm watching, isn't as entertaining as it...as the last episode was. Or I'm just getting kind of tired of these shows that are watching...watch...like every night I have different shows that I started watching. And initially they were entertaining or funny or I'm just...I'm not finding that to be the case.
And so it's like I'm... I'm... I'm in a position where when I'm working I'd rather have... have things to do, I'd rather not have things to do and sit around and do that. But when I'm sitting around and doing that, I'd rather (inaudible at 20:22) other things I wish I was doing. I'm just like...it's just not doing it for me.
And I have no real social connection with anyone. I spend time with my kids, and chitchat with the (inaudible at 20:47) with the kids, but there's... there's just no - Ian comes over on Friday. And he goes and plays with the kid downstairs. And they occasionally come in, and I find it annoying when they do. And - [21:09]
THERAPIST: Cameron, I feel like you kind of...it sounds like you imagine that I forget or don't hold in mind or somehow really don't know how stressful and how bad your situation is in a lot of ways. I mean, you...you keep saying stuff about it as though...otherwise, I'm going to forget about you.
CLIENT: I don't know. I don't know what else to talk about. How long - and then I volunteer at the housing court.
THERAPIST: Right. [22:08]
CLIENT: Which was a little...there're two oddball cases that I was shadowing another attorney on. And was very intimidating because it involved a lot of knowledge of more like community service and ways for - for instance, the first one was someone who was way behind on their rent. They had a mobile home. And they weren't paying their rent, their land rent. And so the attorney is going through with all this catholic charities and all these different organizations that you can get money from. And it's like, "I... I can't help people with that. I don't know what these organizations are."
And also just the frustration of like, "How am I any different from this woman?" She's got a three-year-old kid. She's behind on rent. She's doesn't have a job. And it's like, I'm in the middle of this mediation, and it's like, I'm just doing everything in my power to hold it together.
And then the next case is... is about two roommates. And our client, that's...who's bipolar, and took a day off from being in-patient to do...come to court. And she can't even be in the same room with the other one. And once again, I'm just like - and I kind of understand them, the other... the... the roommate who was the defendant, not our client, was saying how she would go into her room and close her door. And just she found those...those things to be weird. But I'm like, "What's so weird about - " it's just once again, it's like, everything in my life is a constant reminders of my situation. And I'm like, "How am I any different than this woman?" Am I going to be in the situation where I'm no longer be stable?
I've got so little work to do now that...that I can't even - I'm... I'm fearful of not even being able to - something is going to happen to me that I can't even do the work I have. And that I completely shut the door on any sort of - it's not like I feel like I've made progress, but at least I have some business. And - I don't know. I feel like I'm wondering here, but...not addressing what you said. [25:29]
THERAPIST: I think it's hard to address what I said because I think it's very hard for you to think - like in an example you just described as being...the ways on the housing court. It makes you so caught up in what's going on with you. I don't mean so much like in a selfish way or a self-absorbed way, but in a kind of overwhelmed way, that you can't think about it in terms of your work and your job. [26:17]
CLIENT: Yeah. Am I going to feel better in a month from now when I got to do this again? And hopefully, what happens when they turn me loose and I'm by myself? And it happens all the time, people call me up and have foreclosure questions or short sale questions. And I'm sitting here advising people and little do they know that I'm... I'm in the same boat they're in. And it's just difficult to deal with.
And the vast majority of cases that I asked (inaudible at 27:06) typical types of cases or typically nonpayment of rent, and the eviction for cause, it's doing something illegally bothering the other tenants, breaching the... the lease in some way. And I'm like, "Am I going to be in a situation to emotionally help people?" I've got to sit in there and go to bat for people and that's - the other attorney said, "Battle." And I don't feel like I have any fight in me. (pause)
The team's season is starting, and I've got to pick up my tickets at some point. And I still haven't told Jess that I've got the tickets. And I want to try and sell some of them, but I don't have the actual ticket to plug in to step up to... to sell them. It's like one more thing I've got to deal with. I'm trying to meet up with this guy to get the tickets. (pause) He plays Handball, but I checked, he's on the waiting list. So it's not like he can bring them out to Handball. Which is usually how I get the tickets or I used to go to his place, but he no longer lives there. I should know because I helped him buy the place.
But what do I say to Jess? One of the reasons that I don't money to... to pay for rent and other stuff is because I ponied up to bypass tickets. It's like - there was a part of me that I can't let go of doing those act...those things. But there's a part of me saying, "You're the stupidest person in the world. You can't afford these things. And you just won't let go of them." There's some belief that I'm going to be better off in a year from now, and that I'll be upset that I no longer have these tickets or no longer - and I've been - I won't even...I could probably could find someone to go in with me on the tickets. But I just - I don't have the - there's no on that I feel socially connected to that I would even want to go in with on the tickets. (pause) [30:55]
THERAPIST: I think you got them because they really matter to you. And because... because the way you think you're worth something.
CLIENT: Yeah. [31:48]
THERAPIST: But (pause) that also feels so risky because any time you let yourself feel worth something, you're under attack from the other things you feel you should do, from Jess.
CLIENT: Next Thursday we're having a visitor's day for E&amp;G.; And I sent out 40 letters, so I'm supposed to follow-up and -
THERAPIST: Right.
CLIENT: - call these people and see if they're coming.
THERAPIST: Right. [32:44]
CLIENT: And I can't do that, I just don't have it in me. I know I'm supposed to be the leader, making an example. And it takes someone to... to really kind of put the chapter on their back and build them in a back up. And I feel like the rest of my life is so... there's just nothing there for me to do it. That I'm the... the wrong man for the job and that I... I just can't... don't have the commitment or motivation to do it. And I just don't see any prospect for us growing in the group. And it just - some people say they have two or three confirmed visitors, but just because visitors are coming doesn't mean that they're going to join. We have a lot of visitors coming through and they just don't join.
I mean, there's just a...E&G; is the same thing as the modification, and short sale, and it's just the IRS, and the DOR, and just all these problems that they're... just doesn't seem to be a good solution for me. It's something that I need control over, something that it's out there and it's driving me crazy. And I'm worried about it, I'm anxious about it, I'm depressed about it. Just seems like there's always just one more thing that's getting in the way of - I don't know.
I'm doing a presentation with Savings Bank next Wednesday. And I haven't even thought about what I'm going to say or do or - the guy e-mailed me two days ago to talk...call and talk to him about it. I haven't called him back yet. Just - I don't know, really just - (pause)
I can't talk to my mom...my mom because she just wants to look at the positive side of life. Can't talk to my dad because he's only going to give me - well, he's... gives some sort of empathy or sympathy. He still only gives me solutions that I find unacceptable like doing divorce. I mean, I'm looking at the... the conflict in these housing court cases. And they're no where near the conflict that's in these divorces. And it just... I mean, maybe I'll get used to it, but - (pause)
Jess drives me crazy because she can't stick with any decision. She now wants Ian to go back to the neighborhood school because it's too much of schlep to take him over to the other School. It's too far to walk, it's bad. I agree that it's not as that better of a school than we thought it would be. And he's...because he hasn't had any playdates and not... not like that. There's just - I don't know. We already know people at the neighborhood school. And he has friends that would go there. And so she...she's right in that it's probably a good idea for him to switch. But it's just this thing that drives me crazy about her is that just nothing is ever good enough. There's always a problem with something that - and I feel like that's the way she feels about me that - I don't know. [38:50]
THERAPIST: I think that's really unfortunately the way you feel about you. I think you feel like there's so much wrong with you, and so much wrong everywhere you look. That I think it's a really unfortunate enough of a way you find so little redeeming about yourself. [39:24]
CLIENT: Yeah. I mean, I... there's nothing redeeming, there's no hope for anything. There's just... way it's... it's like I'm just waiting for something to just - I don't know. I don't even know what it is that I'm waiting for. But it's like I'm not motivated to do any of the work. I have Tuesday, but what else am I going to do because I got nothing else to do. And make a few phone calls, print out some reports and faxes. And there's a... a lawsuit I filed was so clerical, intensive letters and filling stuff out. And there's just - it's... it's work, but getting nothing out of it. Just -
THERAPIST: You mean in terms of like learning stuff or -
CLIENT: Just (inaudible at 40:50).
THERAPIST: - any interest?
CLIENT: Yeah. It's not interesting, it's boring. I take nothing from it, I... it's a chore. And this is kind of stuff, I mean, I need to get more of is what's driving me crazy the most is that I made money and I made... I billed $700, but that went to the bat (ph) tickets. And I'm looking at a situation where my rent is $1,200 and I'm 3 or 4 months behind. And I've got to pay maybe like $600 or $700 to... to cobble together. Still haven't paid my... my car insurance from last month. Haven't bought an indestructible cage for Buddy, but they go for $300. So I'm like, there's no money for those two things, but I've got to pay it off.
And if I had this fucking Bank closing, there's the money for rent right there. I've got malpractice insurance, and there's the cell phone bill, and just... it's unrelenting. And I'm doing this...just constantly doing this dance of trying to keep it together. And it just - I feel - I just had that feeling like I'm just constantly on the edge and I'm about to fall over. And it... it's with everything. [42:39]
THERAPIST: Yeah. I think a lot of it is the actually I know that's true in certain respects and the circumstances of your life. I think it's also something you're setting up psychologically.
CLIENT: Well, I mean, what other choice do I have?
THERAPIST: You mean psychologically? [43:08]
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: We're working on it.
CLIENT: By doing what?
THERAPIST: Talking about it.
CLIENT: Well, I'm talking about it. Just reminds me of how crappy it is though. (pause) And talking about it -
THERAPIST: I think it also - I think talking about it has a pretty constructive aspect. I think it - which I think is reflected in how your thoughts often go in that I think the way you talk about it, makes it pretty impossible to actually think about what's going on. [44:46]
CLIENT: I do think about what's going on, and I don't like it. And I just don't see any hope. I mean -
THERAPIST: We're going to stop.
CLIENT: There's this scheduling thing I -
END TRANSCRIPT
