<font size="4"><b>The Forty-Fourth Day</b></font>

They took down the Christmas decorations today. The cards
on the center pillar were distributed to their owners or thrown
into the trash can. Miss Brown supervised removal of the
Santa Claus posters and hovered nearby while Larry, the new
student nurses, and I took the trimmings from the tree, which
was shedding its needles as if in haste to have it over with.
Once the trimmings were taken away, it seemed to crouch in
its corner in forlorn nudity.


Miss Brown carefully packed the trimmings in a cardboard
container and said cheerfully that they would be all right for
another year. I wondered: How many of these men will be
here next Christmas? Will Miss Brown and Ralph play another
duet? Will Boy Blue lose his shoes again? I went down
the list, thinking a question about each....


I missed Willie and asked about him. Miss Brown said
that he had been taken to the dentist to have two teeth
pulled. He was back in a few minutes, holding one hand to
his cheek but saying proudly, "I took it like a man."


The doctor gave electros, and it was late in the morning
when he got around to me.


"All set?" he asked.

[p. <i>303</i>]

"All set."


"Well, here's an order for your money. Here's another
for your bags. Miss Brown will give you the car keys. I won't
say goodbye now; I'll see you this afternoon and we'll go over
things."


Miss Brown gave up the keys without a murmur. "So you're
really going?" she said. "Well, Jack, you've been an easy patient."


"I think I'll have that put on my tombstone: He was an
easy patient."


"Oh, go along with you! That's meant to be a compliment."


I told Miss Brown I would like to leave a present for the
D-3 staff and asked if there was anything they needed for
their kitchen snacks.


"You don't have to do anything like that," she said. "But
we do need some coffee cupsthe kind that won't break. You
shouldn't do it, though. You save your money."


"That's all I've been doing for forty-four days."


I took my orders to Center, but they said in the accounting
office that Dr. Sheets would have to sign them. He scribbled
his initials on them, shook hands, and wished me a good trip.
I tried to thank him for all that had been done for me, but I
couldn't find the words.


"I'm grateful as hell," I finally said. "That isn't prettily put,
but it's what I mean."


He walked to the door with me and we shook hands again.
Then I went to the accounting office and drew my money
and the personal belongings I hadn't been permitted to keep
on D-3. These included a dollar watch, stopped at 1:30, and
an Indian head penny, which I presumably had carried for
years in my wallet without knowing it was there. But the accounting
office had found it and carefully listed it.


I got the garage key, again promising the anxious secretary

[p. <i>304</i>]

The car responded immediately. It choked a few times,
sputtered, then settled down to a peaceful purring. I patted
the steering wheel. "This is only the beginning, pal," I said.
"We've got a long way to go."


I left the car in a down-town service station to be gassed,
oiled, greased, and washed, and went shopping. In a hardware
store I found some coffee cups that wouldn't break. They were
made of plastic and resembled beer mugs more than cups, but
I thought they would do for the D-3 kitchen. I also bought a
large fruit cake, to the surprise of the grocer, who said,
"Thought I was stuck with that, the holidays being over."


I wanted to get something extra nice for Suzy. I went into
a jewelry store and looked at rings, bracelets, and earrings,
but they seemed cold to me. Next, I toured a department
store but couldn't make up my mind. I settled, finally, for
three cakes of soap that had the scent of gardenias, and three
velvety face towels. Strange presents, but I knew that she
would like them more than rings or bracelets.


The car was not ready when I returned. I walked to Washington
Street and tried to locate our house. I was certain that
I was at the right corner, but the house wasn't there. Where
it should have been was a ranch-type house. Well, what did
I expect? It was in 1917 that we lived in the house on
Washington Street. Houses don't last forever.


Down town again, I looked for Wahl's, where we ate hamburgers
and banana splits after the high school dances. But
Wahl's was gone, too. I walked for miles, it seemed, trying
to find a familiar landmark, but there was none. On Union
Street I saw a name on a sign over a tavern-restaurant that

[p. <i>305</i>]

I asked about his sister, and he said casually, "Oh, she's in
the state hospital. Been there for five years."


"I've been there for forty-four days," I said. "I'm leaving
tomorrow."


"Is that so?" he said. He got off the stool and wrapped his
apron around him. He put the bottle of bourbon back on the
shelf. "Well, it's been nice seeing you," he said.


We shook hands. I could <i>feel</i> his eyes in my back as I
walked out. The Flash knew what he was talking about, I
thought, recalling his warning about Main Street's sly curiosity.


The car was shiny clean and seemed eager to be on its way.
It was a shame to take it out, for snow was sweeping in from
the bay, and it had the feel of snow that scorns the feebleness
of flurries. The car skidded three times on the way to Receiving;
after the third time I got the feel of it and had no more
trouble.


Miss Brown and Bates liked the coffee mugs. I bounced
one on the kitchen floor, and they were even more pleased.


"We'll christen them tomorrow morning," Miss Brown
said. "We'll have coffee and fruit cake and anything else you
want. You have breakfast with us."


"That'll be fine," I said, but I didn't feel that it would be
fine. I ached inside, and I pretended that I didn't know why
but I did.

[p. <i>306</i>]

I walked to Center and returned the garage key. The anxious
secretary was relieved and grateful. Then I went out the
back way to the canteen. No one I knew was there. I went
out again and started for Storage. A block away, I saw Suzy
waiting on the front steps. I had the soap and the towels
with me and I gave them to her. I had thought that I would
make a joke about them, but I didn't say anything. Suzy only
glanced at them.


"What's wrong, darling?"


"Nothing. Not a damned thing."


She said cheerfully, "I'm glad everything's all right."


Pretending, we went into Storage and I collected my bags.
Still pretending, we went to the canteen, which suddenly was
crowded. I bought for the house. Hamburgers, hot dogs, coffee,
chocolate milks, and Cokes were passed around, but the
bill came to less than five dollars.


Len sat with us at the table. He and Suzy ordered hamburgers,
but they didn't touch them. They sat there looking at
me, until finally I burst out, "For Christ's sake, stop trying
to hypnotize me!"


"Better take it easy, pal," Len said.


Suzy said nothing, but she reached across the table and put
her hand on mine, not caring who looked on, and I realized
how childishly I was behaving.


"All cured," I said, with the ache still inside me, and we
went on pretending for the rest of the afternoon.


When I left Suzy at the gate to Eleven, she said that she
would be on the hill early in the morning.


"I want to say goodbye there," she said.


I told her that I planned to leave about eight. "Can you get
out that early?"


"I'll get out if I have to burn down the building!... My
darling, please don't look so sad!"

[p. <i>307</i>]

I kissed her and walked quickly away, back to Receiving,
counting my steps. One, two, three ... where's this new
man business? ... four, five, six ... thought you were
grown up ... seven, eight, nine ... do you want your
mamma, little boy?


It was like having a cold shower. The ache was still there,
but it was different. It was a clean ache.


I thought I had missed the doctor, but Miss Brown said
that he had given up to the cold or flu bugs and was in bed.
I was disappointed that I couldn't say goodbye to him, but I
wrote a note and left it with Miss Brown.


I went to bed early. Art came in as I was drifting off.
"You'll be gone before I come on tomorrow," he said. "Happy
landings!"


I told him, "I'll always remember that first night, Art.
Happy landings, yourself!"


Just before lights-out, Larry tiptoed into the room and
pressed a folded piece of paper into my hand. Then he tip-toed
out. I got up and opened the paper near the door where
the hall lights struck it. It was a pencilled note that read:


Jack, my wish for you is that you will take the Lord Jesus
Christ as your Saviour, for there is none other name
whereby we may be saved.


The little June bug, I said. The sweet little June bug.

