<font size="4"><b>CHAPTER XVII: Re-Educating the Family</b></font>

ALCOHOLICS ANONYMOUS makes no provisions for re-educating
the alcoholic's family except in so far as it
offers a new focus of social life away from the old association.
At first psychiatrists and lay therapists also concentrated
almost entirely on the patient, without too much
regard for his environment except to remove him from it
while he was under treatment, but gradually, as we found
in Chapter XIV, they have come to realize that it is just
as important to change the attitudes of the family as it is
to reconstruct the alcoholic.


By the time the compulsive drinker has come to such a
pass that he wants to seek treatment, the family is usually
split into two embittered camps, the sympathetic who
don't have to nurse poor Bill and believe that if he had
more understanding at home, and his wife would stop nagging,
he'd be all right, and the wife's defenders, who see
what a wreck he is making of her and who are convinced
that Bill is a pathological liar, a cheat, and incapable of
real affection for anybody but himself.


The distracted wife is usually crushed between them.
She understands in a dim way that it isn't Bill's fault,
that he doesn't drink intentionally, with malice aforethought,
but she is confused by the false atmosphere that
he manages to create, an atmosphere in which all of the
solid values are twisted out of perspective. Her heart tells
her that he doesn't mean to do these things, but she is a
responsible person and it is hard to live with a man whom

[p. <i>176</i>]

Why, she puzzles, has his sense of responsibility gone
into reverse? Whenever he needs most to have all his wits
about him, when he has something important to face, he
sees to it that he is in no condition to face it. And it isn't
as though he doesn't try; he makes the most elaborate
preparations; but just when everything is going well,
swoosh, he is off on a binge.


She sees him building up a justification for a spree.
Sometimes he runs through the whole list of diseases. The
fever blister on his lip is a cancer; his heart is acting
queer, or he is convinced that he must have an operation
for gallstones or ulcer or what have you, all subconsciously,
to justify his state of anxiety that demands a
drink. Or if it isn't disease, he is having an exceptionally
difficult time at the office. Always he is thwarted and underrated
and he has to ease the tension by a drink. His
wife listens to all this; she knows it is false; she senses that
he is just manufacturing excuses, and she knows with a
sick horror that another bout is coming on. She retreats
into a shell, trying to protect herself from the brutal
things that he will say, wondering whether he really does
believe such things about her.

[p. <i>177</i>]

Then there are the days and nights of nursing. The
usual idea is that the alcoholic drinks himself into a stupor
and when he comes out of it the bout is over. No one who
has not nursed an alcoholic through these collapses realizes
the demands the sick man makes. He needs watching
all the time. As the liquor wears off, as it does every few
hours, and he comes back to consciousness demanding
more, he is possessed by a cunning demon. He wants to
jump out the window or to take a whole bottle of sedatives.
If anyone tries to restrain him, he becomes violent; so his
wife tries to cajole him as she would a madman, or as an
animal trainer coaxing a dangerous cat back into its cage.
At the very least he tries to struggle to the bathroom and
is likely to fall and break an arm or cut his head. When
morning comes and the sick man has sunk into a sleep of
exhaustion, his wife is as limp as though a corps of tanks
had rumbled over her. She is drained not only of physical
strength but of emotion and her nerves are as jagged as
the teeth of a buzz saw.


Then there is the hang-over, the jerky nerves, the despair,
the clinging, the promises that this is the last time.
She tries to respond, although there is very little response
left in her. In her heart she can't help a tiny flame of hope,
although she knows it isn't so. After a few years of this
violent emotional seesaw, the wife is in such a state of
frayed nerves that she is in no condition to be rational
and objective. Her tensions react upon her husband and
it is the old, old vicious circle. It is for this reason chiefly
that most physicians recommend a period of hospitalization
where the sick man will have enforced restraint, professional
care, and, most important of all, a healthier,
more impersonal atmosphere.


But what good is all this if he comes home to the same
old atmosphere of tension? To prepare the family is a difficult

[p. <i>178</i>]

The family's chief job is to help the alcoholic find an
interest that will replace the alcohol and to enter into it
with him. This is not so easy as it sounds. If he does discover
something that holds his enthusiasm, it may be a
hobby or an interest that bores the rest of the family, or
runs them ragged. But the results are worth the exertion,
for his ability to absorb himself in the new interest may
make the difference between recovery and relapse.


The wife of one of the founders of Alcoholics Anonymous
tells something about the hilarious (when she looks
back at it) but distinctly trying experiences she had when
she followed her husband in his drive to save other alcoholics.
He always had someone in tow and would get
up in the middle of the night to answer a call from an
alcoholic, no matter where he lived. She tagged along;
she helped them in and out of bars, lit their cigarettes
when their hands were too shaky, tried to persuade doctors
to come out at four o'clock in the morning, and at home
found them all over the house, as many as four or five at

[p. <i>179</i>]

And she had another regret, a faint one, for she realized
what all this activity was meaning to her husband, and
she was really happy about it, but once in a while there
was a shadow of wistfulness for the days when her husband
depended on her and her whole life revolved around sobering
him up.


Missy once told me this same thing. She did not have
much trouble with alcoholics underfoot, but during all
those difficult years when I stumbled, made new resolutions,
and broke them I was completely dependent on
Missy emotionally. Ever since that first afternoon in
Brooklyn years ago, when I walked along Monroe Place
broke, desperate, with only ten dollars from my pawned
typewriter between me and starvation, and stopped to
look into the bookshop in the basement of the corner
church, Missy had been my lodestar. I stepped down into
the shop and there she was. It seemed to me that she had
been waiting to help me. For a long time I managed to
keep my condition from her because I was ashamed to
have her know. Always on my binges, as long as I was able
to focus at all, my thoughts clung to her. Finally, when
every pretense broke down and I groped my way to her
apartment in the parsonage, drunk, my nose cut to the

[p. <i>180</i>]

And we did, a heartbreaking number of times, but she
never gave up. I clung to her belief in me; it was one emotional
certainty in a world cluttered with the flotsam of
despair. Somehow she managed to give me a few happy
memories to hold onto, such as the one of the Christmas
when I managed to stay sober; just a normal, contented
family scenemy mother and my daughter, Audrey, helping
me hide a cumbersome tea cart that was to be one of
Missy's presents; Missy cooking her first turkey; all of
us listening to "The Happiness Boys" on our new radio.
It was a holiday that we both treasured. Most holidays
were grim periods for Missy. How she physically and emotionally
endured the strain of those years I will never
understand.


When I came back from the hospital, Dr. Cline had
taught me to stand on my own feet, and no doubt I exaggerated
my independence. Missy was wise enough to know
that he was right, but she found herself confronted with
a great emptiness. Now I no longer needed her in the old,
all-absorbing way, and she had to make a new life of her
own.


To Missy, the saving factor in both the old situation
and the new was her job. The fact that she had to go to
an office every morning, that she had to put her mind on
her work and shut me back in her subconscious for a certain
number of hours a day, that she had to go to conferences,
meet strangers, lecture, produce ideas, kept her going,

[p. <i>181</i>]

This matter of a job as a stabilizer is even more vital to
the ex-alcoholic than to the person on whom he has depended,
and it is one in which the family can help. Is the
alcoholic's old job best for him? There are no jobs without
their stresses, but in some the chances of staying on an
even keel are much better than in others. Because the
patient was a high-powered salesman constantly dining-and-wining
customers and being treated by them, or an
advertising executive, a newspaper columnist, or, for that
matter, a bartender, is no reason he has to remain one. He
may be convinced that he must keep on with the old job because
he can make more money at it than at any other and
feels that he must keep it for the sake of his family. But
if the old associations will make it hard for him to keep
dry, his family can help him to find something new and
make it easy for him to change, even if it means a loss in
income or prestige.


If conditions are favorable, it is best for the alcoholic to
go back to the old job and work out a new destiny right
where he messed things up and where his associates know
all about him. I did this in my own case, and it was more
than a year before my associates really believed the change
had come about which they were witnessing. That was
because many past promises had proved disappointing.

[p. <i>182</i>]

It is a never-ending source of gratification to me that
my work has kept me in association with doctors. If I had
been on the staff of a newspaper, or had been doing theatrical
publicity, it would have been many times as difficult
for me to keep dry, not only because of the physical
irregularity of the work, the unpredictable hours, and the
high tensions, but even more because of the mores of these
occupations, the custom of easing the tensions and the
prolonged fatigue by convivial drinks. Doctors by both
habit and long training are controlled. They have the scientific
approach to life, not the emotional; they live by
understatement; they value intellectual honesty, and they
cultivate an attitude of kindly realism. To an alcoholic
of my type, with wide emotional swings, there could be no
more steadying environment than is provided by their
equanimity. And, strangely enough, I have found it the
most stimulating work I have ever done. It has taught me
precision of thinking; the excitement of pinning down an
idea so that it can be put across by the honesty and exactitude
of its presentation rather than by the emotional fervor
of the author is just the psychological medicine an alcoholic
needs.


So the job is important and if a new one is needed the
family can weight the scales in favor of it. Every way the

[p. <i>183</i>]

Another important way in which the family can help is
by creating a healthy mental atmosphere. It is a mistake
to be hush-hush about the old days and to pretend that
they never existed, just as it is to be harking back to
them. Let us accept frankly the facts of the illness. The
alcoholic was a sick man; now he is recovering. Let there
be no false pretense that there never was a sickness. There
is no skeleton to lock in the closetdeep silence as though
the very mention of the sickness reminds you that it was
somehow shameful. Let it and its symptoms be discussed
as easily and naturally as though the alcoholic had recovered
from the measles, with no more emotional significance
and no less.


Nothing so quickly awakens the old resentments as to
let an ex-alcoholic realize that he is being protected. I remember
an afternoon after I had returned from Payne
Whitney when one of my friends and I were walking down
Broadway.


"Let's have a drink," he suggested as we passed a bar.
Then he remembered and added quickly, "No, I don't believe
I want one."


"Yes, you do," I answered and pulled him into the bar.


He ordered a beer and waited anxiously to see what I

[p. <i>184</i>]

Every alcoholic has to learn to make his own social adjustments.
It does no good to go about saying to our
friends, "Please don't serve any liquor when we come
over," or "I don't want John to go to parties where drinks
are served." He can't run away from liquor; it will be
around him all his life. Rather, help him work out a technique
for avoiding drinks inconspicuously. He doesn't
want his friends to change their habits; nor does he want
to be a blight on a party. Help him make his passing up
cocktails as casual and unnoteworthy as though they were
pat canaps or tomato juice.


To be sure the alcoholic may slip. It is so easy to do.
I have had just three drinks since I came out of Payne
Whitney eighteen years ago, and two of them were accidental.
The first slip happened when I stopped at a bar
on my way home and ordered a ginger ale. I took a quick
drink and the liquor coursed through me with a glorious
warmth. It was ale, not ginger ale. The danger signals
that I had set up so laboriously functioned so automatically
that I was instantly in a turmoil of apprehension
and shouted at the barkeeper, "That's ale; I ordered ginger
ale." The others at the bar stared at me curiously,
wondering why I was making such a commotion over a
glass of ale. Flushed and embarrassed, I tossed my money
on the counter and hurried out. When I had calmed down
I was grateful that my so painfully conditioned reflexes
had worked in time.


The next occasion was a dinner party. My host noticed
that I did not touch the cocktails and ordered for me a

[p. <i>185</i>]

The third time was again by accident. At a reception
I was served ginger ale and did not realize that my host
had put a stick in it until I had taken a long drink. Instantly
I remembered the words of Dr. Cline. Taking a
deep breath I held the glass steadily in my hand and
looked at it, saying to myself the phrase that he had suggested
to me, "Just what do I expect to get out of this?"
Was I willing to jeopardize the satisfactory life that I had
built up through the years for another gulp of this spiked
ginger ale? Put that way there was literally no temptation,
so I set down the glass and walked away.


The one real temptation that almost defeated me was
the persistent idea that came to me one bright summer
evening as I sat in my study looking out over the bay.
Missy was away on a business trip for a week. The young
people who had been spending the holiday with me sailing
had gone upstairs. My body pleasantly tired from a tussle
with a stiff breeze on the bay, and my mind looking about
for entertainment, I sat there thinking that this was the
tenth anniversary of my discharge from Payne Whitney.
Ten years without a drink! Elation began to flood through
me like a pleasant glow. Ten years was something; it
called for a celebration. I couldn't bear to spend such an
anniversary alone looking out at the moonlight. Why not
go down to the Long Island House where there surely
would be a few old cronies. A drink or two couldn't hurt
me after all these years.

[p. <i>186</i>]

Here were the conditions that had caused me to slip so
many times before: Missy away, a few days' vacation, nobody
around who knew of my trouble. Always I had felt
that I would get hold of myself and be all right when
Missy returned and she would never know. Always I had
been sure I could beat the game. But I never had.


This time the decision came casually. I did not take that
chance, because nothing which I could gain by taking
those few drinks could be worth the danger of going back
to the kind of life that had ruined me so many times. Sitting
there and remembering these things, I was pretty
sure that at last I could solve my problems on a rational
basis.


But we alcoholics must never be too sure. There is always
the chance that we may slip. However, it is a mistake
for the family to go about holding its breath waiting
for a relapse. If a relapse should come, and the chances
are that it will during the first year, the family shouldn't
make the old, old mistake of hiding the liquor or trying to
stop the spree by any of the ways that proved so futile in
the past. Every alcoholic will tell you from grievous experience
that when he has started on a spree nothing can
stop him. Even if you isolated him at the North Pole in
an igloo with six-foot walls, you would find that he had
a bottle of whisky concealed somewhere. The bout has to
run its course. Indeed, I know a physician, an Alcoholic
Anonymous who is devoting his extra time to an alcoholic
clinic, who says that far from trying to stop a bout the
thing to do is to hasten the crisis. The sharper it is and
the sooner it is over, the more quickly the patient will be
in the state of mind to look for help again, and this time
he will hold onto help tighter. He won't be so cocksure
that he has the devil by the tail.


A family shouldn't take an alcoholic's relapse too seriously;

[p. <i>187</i>]
