<b><center>MOTIVATIONAL INTERVIEWING WITH DR. WILLIAM MILLER</center></b>
<b><center>CLIENT 01 SESSION 01</center></b>
<center>______________________________________________________________________________</center>
<b>INTRODUCTION:</b>
William R. Miller, PhD, the originator of Motivational Interviewing, is Professor of Psychology and Psychiatry at the University of New Mexico and Director of Research for UNM's Center on Alcoholism, Substance Abuse &amp; Addictions. Dr. Miller has published 25 books and more than 200 articles and chapters on the treatment of alcoholism and other addictive behaviors.
<b>BEGIN TRANSCRIPT:</b>
CLIENT: I retired a couple of years ago. Spending my time differently. We're raising a 10 year old grandson. Back in boy scouts. Soccer—that type of thing. (inaudible at 0:00:27)
THERAPIST: Sounds fun.
CLIENT: It is. It is. I hadn't planned to be raising this boy and it's been better than anything I could've planned.
THERAPIST: Okay. It says you've been feeling somewhat depressed and kind of stuck. So tell me about that.
CLIENT: Well, I've been pretty badly depressed for about two and a half months and kind of working my way out of it. It's the third time I've been pretty badly depressed.
[0:01:00]
THERAPIST: The third time around? What is that experience like for you? What do you notice? 
CLIENT: I have to struggle to keep doing the things that I normally do. Quite a struggle.
THERAPIST: Energy is low.
CLIENT: Yeah. I also—all three times I've had pretty intense anxiety towards the beginning. 
THERAPIST: So that's—you know it's coming on when that happens?
CLIENT: Well, this time I did. 
THERAPIST: Yeah. So you are starting to recognize it now.
CLIENT: Yeah. 
THERAPIST: Sometimes it affects sleep, the way people sleep or their appetite. 
CLIENT: Pretty badly, yeah. 
THERAPIST: A lot?
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: Not sleeping?
CLIENT: Well for the first several weeks, yeah. It kind of comes upon me as a crash. Then there is a slow go from there.
THERAPIST: Happens really suddenly. Is it associated with anything or is it like a—
[0:02:02]
CLIENT: All three times it's been associated with (inaudible at 0:02:04).
THERAPIST: Okay, okay. That kind of sets it off. 
CLIENT: That sets it off and then it will go back to other things and like that. 
THERAPIST: You feel like you are kind of coming out of it now. How do you know that?
CLIENT: Well, a bunch of different things. I am just able to do some of them more than when—and I don't feel as awful. Let's see some other things that are a bit more specific. I don't break down in tears. I don't have to call a friend as often for a pep talk. So anyway—so that's sort of like the acute grief that's wearing off and then back to a —
[0:03:07]
CLIENT:—eventually I think it will be back to—sort of a nice steady state which is not as good as I'd like it to be. And I think is why these break-ups get sort of abnormally hard.
THERAPIST: So of the steady state were a little better, a little more stable it might not hit you so hard. 
CLIENT: If the steady state were better, if I was enjoying life more like with more meaning and expectations then—then I definitely wouldn't be as hard hit when something hits me.
THERAPIST: Yeah. Now tell me about that a little bit. What expectations are there? How would you like your steady state life to be different? 
[0:03:57]
CLIENT: There's a bunch a ways in which I evolved. Maybe have too high expectations? And kind of imagined it to be different? I don't have kids. I find progress at work to be glacial. I'm not as enthusiastic about work as I feel I should be. And even though it's pretty well matched to things that I care about it feels a bit like I'm marking time. Yeah. That things aren't building.
THERAPIST: Not moving toward what you'd like to be moving toward. Your mind isn't accomplishing or doesn't have the meaning that you would like, perhaps? 
CLIENT: Yeah, and I have two thoughts about that. Might as well just okay so to try harder? But the other is—is more of maybe an acceptance approach. It's like expectations, were just too high.
THERAPIST: Maybe this is as good as it gets?
CLIENT: Yes. Or maybe the key is accepting what it is. 
[0:05:03]
THERAPIST: Without wanting it to be something different. 
CLIENT: yeah. Just assessing my life is sometimes pretty hard and the processes are pretty slow. And two (inaudible 0:05:22) aren't what we would hope—it's not for most people not really what they'd be hoped to have (inaudible at 0:05:26).
THERAPIST: In your—you have work that is meaningful to you and that you believe in what you are doing. You just wish it would move along faster.
CLIENT: I wish there were a lot more interaction and that it would move along faster and that it would do some broader ranger in my skill set, I guess. I've done some back flips career wise and maybe that kind of relates to the sort of like each thing wasn't as much as I'd hoped to do. 
[0:06:02]
THERAPIST: So what's a back flip? Is that doing something completely new? 
CLIENT: Yes. Do you want an example? 
THERAPIST: Sure, yes. 
CLIENT: Well, I'm trained as a physicist and I have a PhD in Physics and I work darn hard at it. Both for my degree and for post docs afterward. 
THERAPIST: Four post docs? 
CLIENT: Doing my post docs. Two post docs. And at some point it just started to look very unsatisfying to be cranking out papers in theoretical physics. What I guess I imagined it was—first of all I hadn't imagined how much just cranking was going on. Second, I was kind of a star when I was chose to into theoretical physics. 
[0:07:02]
CLIENT: You get there and there's a lot of smart people. Very high competition. And third I just imagined a lot more pure activity. In particular I was—one of the reasons I went for the physics was just that I knew I would get related to teaching physics. But much of what you really have to do in physics to be successful is to crank out a lot of papers in physics. Esoteric papers and that became unsatisfying to me. And I did a back flip into software.
THERAPIST: That was—it didn't feel like cranking out papers was what you wanted to do or how you wanted to spend your life.
CLIENT: Right. And very limited job options. Whereas by contrast in software there—at the time there were lots of job options. And still intellectual challenge. And a chance to learn something new. 
THERAPIST: And then (inaudible at 0:08:00). You must have had another one from there to what you're doing now.
CLIENT: Yeah. I was really all over the map for a little bit. And then settled down, yes. I was really looking for—somehow or other—more meaningful work.
THERAPIST: Something that makes a difference.
CLIENT: Yes. Because if you're doing software for a while you really—after a while you just don't—you—well, it's hard for you to find meaning in your work in most software projects. 
THERAPIST: So what you're doing now is more environmental?
CLIENT: Yes. 
THERAPIST: Something that could make things better for a lot of people.
CLIENT: It does. A little bit.
THERAPIST: Just a little? And that's—moving a little more. 
CLIENT: And also, one thing is it's—I mean, I know we're making some difference. But—you know, we're working in such large processes that it's impossible to tell how much difference you're making.
[0:09:01]
THERAPIST: So it's glacial in that sense? It's moving but not very fast?
CLIENT: Yes.
THERAPIST: You've kept your part in making it move just a bit. Just a little bit of progress, a little bit of gain. 
CLIENT: And I work hard at that too. But I would be much more effective if I was really—sort of—enthusiastic and was satisfied—more satisfied with the pace of progress. Instead I sort of—I feel like I'm trudging along. I'm still not (inaudible at 0:09:41) 
THERAPIST: What does give you joy?
CLIENT: I like showing people things. 
THERAPIST: Like teaching?
CLIENT: Yeah. And I even tried teaching for a few months just as a sub. And I became a long term sub. 
[0:10:01]
CLIENT: And I did a good job. It was hard work, but I did a good job. But again it wasn't—(inaudible at 0:10:15)—reasons why I didn't want to continue on with that. 
THERAPIST: Well, I'm particularly interested in what does bring job. What you really—what lifts you up.
CLIENT: Okay, well, here's one that really lifts me up. Okay. Suppose I—Suppose I could get someone to go on a backpacking trip. Something they wouldn't otherwise do. Or haven't done in a long time. I like being the organizer of things. 
THERAPIST: So that showing people something they might not otherwise experience. Be part of bringing that to them. That sounds good. 
[0:11:02]
CLIENT: I like—yeah. I definitely like that kind of thing.
THERAPIST: It really feels good.
CLIENT: Yeah. Get some friends out. You enjoy the outdoors. But, you know what? It's hard to pull that off too. People have busy schedules. Maybe backpacking isn't their thing. People can be kind of noncommittal. They say they'll do something and then—say, “It sounds great” and then not do it. 
THERAPIST: When it happens it's really good.
CLIENT: When it happens it's really good. But it's yet another thing that's hard to pull off. 
THERAPIST: A lot of work. You're a really active person—at least normally, not when you're down in the dumps like this.
[0:12:00]
CLIENT: Yeah. Like I'll do—sometimes hundred mile bike rides. 
THERAPIST: Is that true?
CLIENT: Yeah. And I (inaudible at 0:12:13) too. So lots of things. I'm pretty—I'm pretty—I'm—I guess I would say I'm kind of a fighter despite the fact that things aren't going that well. 
THERAPIST: Well, you've found some ways to get yourself out of the trench when you—when you fall into it.
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: Instead of just sitting around waiting for it to go away.
CLIENT: That would be bad. I know what happens if—I know that the worst days follow days when I don't have the energy to do something. This morning I went out for an hour of biking. I—I do that pretty often and I know—you know, I've just got to keep moving ahead. 
[0:13:00]
THERAPIST: What's your guess about where these depressions come from? What's your sense about what's going on?
CLIENT: I think it's kind of dashed dreams. 
THERAPIST: Things you hope for but aren't happening. 
CLIENT: I think that I would've been a good dad, for instance. (inaudible at 0:13:32)
THERAPIST: It's a lost dream in a way.
CLIENT: Big whoop. But then maybe the grass is just greener on the other side of the fence, you know? A lot of parents aren't happy either, so. 
THERAPIST: It's hard. It's hard work. But that's one thing that maybe you're remembering or thinking of things. How it might have been. Rehearsing those.
[0:14:01]
CLIENT: Yes and then there's a gulf between how things might have been and how things are. 
THERAPIST: Would have, should have, could have. Different from enjoying whatever it is. You talked about accepting a while ago. 
CLIENT: Yeah. So I mean, I have other friends who have been through depression. Actually seems like an amazing number of friends who have been through depression. And the ones who have sort of most successfully dealt with it at some point or another they became pretty accepting of what's going on in their lives right now. And I think I have a friend who's job hunting right now and this is not a good time to be job hunting. Even for a very smart guy it's not a good time to be job hunting. And he is a very smart guy. 
[0:15:01]
And—and you know he said you know—I saw—I saw him real recently. And he said you know “I could be down about the fact that I am job hunting in the current environment but never on my way to an interview that maybe not likely to go anywhere.” But he said—well, he's actually getting around by bike quite right now—bike and Caltrain. Instead he was like, “Well I am getting the bike to the Caltrain and there's this thing called Nanowrimo” which is National Novel Writing Fund and it's this crazy thing that people write 50,000 words in one month which is to like overcome all writer's block overcome all—it's gotten very popular and social actually. It's very hard to crank out over 1,500 words in a day. So you know he's doing that. 
[0:16:00]
So anyway he's not getting to do the things he wanted to do but he's managing to find pleasure in the things that he is doing. And I've seen that work for quite a few people and somehow it eludes me. That eludes me. Would have should have could have's pretty strong. 
THERAPIST: But it sounds like a choice. It sounds like I'm going to have the life that I have and I'm going to enjoy what I'm doing. Not that simple to make that choice for you.
CLIENT: Yeah. It's also there's some kind of failure to take the plunge at various points, I feel like. And maybe still fear of taking various (inaudible at 0:16:47).
THERAPIST: Just turning somewhere.
CLIENT: Yeah. 
THERAPIST: If only I had made that train.
CLIENT: Yeah, or given I didn't make that train you know should I get on the local. 
[0:17:04]
CLIENT: Right. And like for me—of course it's still possible to be a dad and maybe one of the most easy ways would be to date a single mom, you know? And I have a lot of that. We shall see. That may still happen. But it would be another big plunge and not an easy one. 
THERAPIST: Something that you imagine would bring you a special kind of joy. And also and also you know it's a lot of work being a parent. 
CLIENT: Yeah, I've seen certain—I've seen what kinds of things animate me and so I mention organizing trips for a friend. Also just in general doing nice things for the women that have been in my life. Very much (inaudible 0:18:08).
THERAPIST: Being kind to someone. 
CLIENT: But then maybe it reaches some state where it's too much.
THERAPIST: To keep the relationship going. 
CLIENT: I not making the person happy enough. Or not getting enough positive feedback. Just don't feel like that steady state is enough. 
THERAPIST: You are kind of hard on yourself.
CLIENT: You know a lot of people say that. I don't know what I just said that made you say that. 
THERAPIST: You were kind of going through a whole variety of things that you might have done better that would have the relationship succeed and go on. If only I had done this maybe with this shortcoming of mine that caused this not to work out. What I was feeling was this big heavy burden of responsibility to make it work and then pain when it doesn't. Because then it's your fault. 
CLIENT: Spot on. (inaudible at 0:19:24)
THERAPIST: Yeah I'm sitting here going through the times and places where depression can come from and that one of talking to yourself and being hard on yourself and high expectations and there's always a little critic back there telling you what you're not doing right. It's the one that sticks out to me, certainly. Sounds like that's going on apparently.
CLIENT: It is. I mean it's part of makes me very animated and motivated is that critic. 
[0:20:00]
THERAPIST: Really? Wow. Tell me about that. How so?
CLIENT: Well it's a double edged sword. But you know it's sort of the desire to accomplish. 
THERAPIST: That's a good thing.
CLIENT: Yeah. But then if you don't accomplish what your inner critic talked you up to it becomes a pretty vicious sword, right. 
THERAPIST: So the edges are the desire to please. The desire to make someone happy or to make a difference in the world. But then if that doesn't work the back of it is pretty sharp. And they come together. 
CLIENT: They kind of do yeah. I'm very goal oriented. And it comes back to just like well is there some way to just enjoy the here and now. Except that a bunch of goals didn't happen. 
[0:21:05]
THERAPIST: They seem incompatible. To have goals and be happy in the here and now. 
CLIENT: Yeah. I haven't figured out how to disentangle that.
THERAPIST: That word acceptance that you mentioned a while ago comes back to you. I have this goal out here that—this impossible dream that I want to move toward. And here is where I am right now and that's okay. That acceptance world.
CLIENT: Yeah and then one other thing that comes into it is—I think—well I think a lot okay.
THERAPIST: It sounds like it. 
CLIENT: And people who think a lot often think about ways that things could go wrong. That's, I think, where that anxiety comes from. I can think of a lot ways that something will go wrong. Often I'm right, you know. Anyway so I have a pretty big anxious streak. Which is not pleasant.
THERAPIST: Well yes if you're thinking often about all the ways things could go wrong and you're responsible for keeping them from going wrong that's a pretty heavy interest burden.
CLIENT: And if I'm not happy with the present things could get worse that's —
THERAPIST: Even worse. Well what do you think you need to do?
[0:22:58]
CLIENT: I don't know I feel like I'm a—I feel like I haven't figured out how to how to start (inaudible at 0:23:07). Be at peace with what I've done. Be at peace with what I'm doing. I haven't figured it out. 
THERAPIST: You must have tried some things. 
CLIENT: Well yeah. (inaudible at 0:23:28) a practice right. And for me yoga is the practice that works the best on this. And so I've been doing the here and now. And sometimes that's been very delightful actually. Other times like if I'm pretty badly depressed then doing something has—doing something like yoga while it's good for me it's not sufficient.
[0:24:03]
CLIENT: It doesn't really activate the here and now. In fact I think a lot. Then I will find myself thinking a lot during the yoga. 
THERAPIST: It turns it inward.
CLIENT: Yeah it's a little too inward turning to be a good thing to do in the midst of a bad depression.
THERAPIST: But you're in a trench. It's more something in the steady state. It's more something that you practice when you're not in the trench to stay out of the trench.
CLIENT: Yeah, so I dropped it for a month or so. And that's one more thing that I feel like I'm trudging along doing that I'm back to doing. 
THERAPIST: What other things have you tried?
CLIENT: Well I organized a very small—very small Thanksgiving Dinner. And in past years I've managed to put on pretty good sized events for friends on Thanksgiving or Christmas and you know then a lot of people. And this year I just did something very small. Very modest. 
[0:25:08]
THERAPIST: And? 
CLIENT: I'm glad I did it because well the alternative—the alternative is—the various alternatives are not as attractive. 
THERAPIST: You do know that too, right? That even when you're in the trench and don't feel like doing things to do things that are enjoyable is important. Even if it's not what you feel like doing at the moment.
CLIENT: Yeah. I went to Yosemite with my parents. I was, like, literally—this was earlier on in the depression—literally curled up in the fetal position at times. 
[0:26:00]
CLIENT: But I pressed on. And now I'm, of course, glad I did. 
THERAPIST: You're a fighter in that sense. Where do you see (inaudible at 0:26:17) going?
CLIENT: I don't know. 
THERAPIST: That's part of it. Now you have —
CLIENT: I'm not sure where it's going. It's not building towards—it's not building towards something substantial. I would like it to be though.
THERAPIST: Sure. If your life could be more like you would wish it to be five years from now what would that look like?
CLIENT: Well, I would be much more enthusiastic about what I'm doing. Whatever that is. If it's still environmental activism I could be—you know, I have the capability to be a pretty strong scientist in that field. 
[0:27:01]
CLIENT: But a lot of that comes from being optimistic and being enthusiastic and if you feel like you're trudging away against nearly insurmountable processes you can easily end up in a state where you don't feel outgoing or confident or enthusiastic. So that's one area. Another area would just be like—I'd like my circle of friends to be tighter. I have people who moved away. I've moved. 
THERAPIST: Tighter in the sense of having more friends or that you keep over time?
CLIENT: Especially more close friends. I have a lot of friends. In fact, people often say that. “Wow, what a blessing to have a lot of friends. People that care about you. “
[0:28:04]
CLIENT: But I often feel like we're not as tightly knit as it would be nice to be. And then I still—I would—I would—I've been pretty darn good at (inaudible at 0:28:28). It's kind of bewildering that things haven't worked out. 
THERAPIST: You're not sure why?
CLIENT: I mean, in each case (inaudible at 0:28:46). 
THERAPIST: That's one of the most painful things. 
CLIENT: It sure is. So if you said where would I like to be five years from now a close relationship would be —
[0:29:00]
THERAPIST: In a close relationship?
CLIENT: Yeah. 
THERAPIST: Where you make each other happy?
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: (inaudible at 0:29:07)
CLIENT: Maybe, yes. There's something—some situation in which I'm providing a lot for somebody else and definitely haven't—I mean, each time you say “What happens?” And you kind of see the common thread. (inaudible at 0:29:34). Whether that be personal household scale, or whether or not that would be on a—a, you know, a range of friends that I organized something with scale, or whether that be on my work scale where, you know, the people that are helped are people I don't even know. 
[0:30:00]
CLIENT: But that kind of stuff always motivates me. 
THERAPIST: You feel that the way you talk about how you like to feel about your work is you know you're making a difference.
CLIENT: Yes. And then the ways in which things don't live up—cannot live up—you've seen though, the way that things cannot live up to expectations by each of those scales. If you go through a long period where it seems like you're not (inaudible at 0:30:30) your partner. Or maybe you can't organize that—that camping trip because too many people dropped out. Or maybe you can't see the effects of your work clearly enough. Maybe you work just too hard. 
THERAPIST: Disappointment's a really big thing. 
[0:31:00]
THERAPIST: You have—you have a dream. You have a hope. You have something that you want. And then that doesn't happen. 
CLIENT: Yeah. So I feel like (inaudible at 0:31:13)—idealize what's going to be possible. And then that's why the disappointments are so hard when they happen. 
THERAPIST: Unrealistically. It couldn't be so—so perfect.
CLIENT: I was good at Thanksgiving. In the sense of, I set my expectations pretty low as to how much I was going to be able to cook. And how many people I was going to be able to invite over. 
[0:32:00]
CLIENT: So I set my expectations low and enjoyed what I had. 
THERAPIST: Well, that sounds good. That's while you're in the trench. 
CLIENT: Yeah, yeah.
THERAPIST: Maybe there's a key in there. Trying to have expectations that are not boring but are also not so high that it's pretty hard to get there. Celebrate what you do accomplish. What you do get done. 
CLIENT: And that gets particularly hard when you hurt inside. 
THERAPIST: It's a cycle you can get into. It sounds like you're pretty good at not giving into that whirlpool. You'd be surprised how many people kind of just sit and wait for it to go away. 
[0:33:00]
THERAPIST: And that just sucks you right down. And you are—you're fighting against it. You know, “I know what I need to do to get out of here.” And moving in that direction.
CLIENT: Yeah. It helps a bit that this is the third time. 
THERAPIST: You have experience with it?
CLIENT: Yeah. It also—let's see—but on the flip side it's taking me—so far this is good. I feel like I'm pulling out some after only two and a half months. But in the past it's taken me one to one and a half years. But I surely hope it doesn't take that long this time. 
THERAPIST: So it feels like it's not going to?
CLIENT: Well, right now it feels like the trajectory's better. But then we'll be back to the steady—because suppose I do manage to pull out in three more months. 
[0:34:02]
CLIENT: Back to this—sort of what's my normal steady state. 
THERAPIST: Then that's not okay.
CLIENT: Yeah. So that's a problem. I don't have a vision for how to make my normal steady state satisfying enough to be enough. And now I'll be back to striving for something again that's going to be hard to reach. 
THERAPIST: The word enough falls on my ear. It's satisfying, but not enough. 
CLIENT: Not what I imagined. Well, suppose I just stay single for a long period of time because I don't bump into somebody that is—you know—mutually—we're mutually excited about each other. Well, that would be a way in which things weren't enough, right?
THERAPIST: Right.
CLIENT: Now, good—fortunately I have this track record of bumping into somebody that I'm excited about within two or three years of becoming single.
[0:35:03]
CLIENT: So I can hope that it will happen again. But what if it doesn't? You know? What happens—how do you stay happy single without this big thing that's important to you? 
THERAPIST: The other part that comes out at me, “How do I enjoy, accept, what I am? The life that I'm in?” And also at the same time have hopes and things that I'm moving toward. Not letting the dreams invalidate the present situation. (inaudible at 0:35:51) Both those two things at the same time. 
[0:36:00]
CLIENT: That's a puzzle. That's a puzzle I haven't figured out in quite a long time. 
THERAPIST: Let me ask you about a couple of things that just occurred to me that other people have done (inaudible at 0:36:20) already dismissed—but the fact that you keep coming back to acceptance makes me think about meditation and that first cousin of yoga, in a way. Which is all about letting those thoughts just kind of go by and not torment you. And accepting reality. How things are. Not giving up dreams. Not giving up direction. But not tormenting yourself about it.
[0:37:00]
THERAPIST: I don't know if that's a practice that you had.
CLIENT: It's—it's kind of why I do yoga. Because like you said, they're cousins. And that I—I just think too much if I go straight to meditation. But yoga can work, actually. It's kind of great. You really can be quite in the present doing something simple to experience—while experiencing the present—let the thoughts come—letting them go. Actually that's worked pretty darn well for that sometimes.
THERAPIST: What's helped about that is you are doing something that can kind of occupy you and that helps you let the thoughts go by without grabbing onto them and—good, okay.
CLIENT: And a lot of people that are very experienced with yoga say they do it as preparation for meditation. Going straight to meditation is kind of a mistake. And—
[0:38:00]
THERAPIST: Well, for people who are really busy thinkers it can be quite a challenge to go straight into meditation. So it's interesting that the physical movement of yoga helps you move in that direction. And then, I don't know what you're doing with your therapist but there's something called cognitive therapy. It's all about examining what you're telling yourself. And asking whether that's really accurate and whether it's what you want to be telling yourself. And becoming aware that you get to choose what you're telling yourself. 
CLIENT: Yeah. I do a fair amount of work in that area. It does seem like I tell myself some pretty darn negative things. 
THERAPIST: I suspect that's the case, yeah.
(inaudible at 0:38:53)
CLIENT: Then it's very easy to get into a state of—well, one thing that's very easy to get into a state of is blaming one of those things for why I don't feel well. And imagining that if I could fix that that I'd feel better. And so—anyway. I mean, the real trick is to actually defeat the thought. Instead of to accomplish what the thought is telling you to do. I do quite a bit of—there's a word for it. Disputation. Disputing negative thoughts.
THERAPIST: I think you do good at that.
CLIENT: Yeah. Well, so the problem is that my disputer is very good at disputing the disputations. I mean darn good. It's like people say, “Well, is there evidence to the contrary?” Yeah. Well, I can focus on the evidence to the contrary. I can also come up with some reasons why the evidence to the contrary isn't applicable.
[0:40:01]
CLIENT: So, anyway. You know, each of these things is what I'd call kind of meek medicine. Meaning that they're—they each help a bit but together they help quite a bit. But it's a lot of work, obviously. But it hasn't helped, I would say. (And I think it's a pretty darn down states for a good crash in the last seven years.) (ph)
THERAPIST: How have you not? They are standing state things. You might catch yourself. But you also have things to help you maintain a balance with your life. But these thoughts—these trenches are pretty bad. 
[0:41:01]
CLIENT: Yeah. Yeah. I spend quite a bit of time wishing I could get hit by a truck. 
THERAPIST: It's that bad?
CLIENT: It's that bad. 
THERAPIST: I'm glad you have someone you're working with. You mentioned medicine. Maybe that's something that you've considered or used when you're in the trenches?
CLIENT: I've tried that already too. 
(inaudible at 0:41:33)
CLIENT: Things that helped. Including antidepressants. It all helps a little bit.
THERAPIST: Yeah. That's what—that's kind of how it is. All these things come together and help. But it's not a miracle solution.
[0:42:00]
THERAPIST: Alright. I don't know if you'd like to chat again. But if you did I think what I might do is ask you about these relationships. Because that seems to me such a source of pain for you. And it's something that's happened three times in a row.—been the thing that's started the trench, in a way. It—there might be something to chat about if you're interested.
CLIENT: Yeah. I mean—I definitely—I'm looking at all ways to crack this. So definitely, if you feel like we could make some progress. I'm pretty open to all—to most anything that will work toward progress.
THERAPIST: (inaudible at 0:42:51)
CLIENT: Sometimes I just (inaudible at 0:42:54) But I think they'd be better the next time we—we talk. We'll take a look at them. See what emerges. 
<b>END TRANSCRIPT</b>
