Transcript of Audio File:
______________________________________________________________________________
BEGIN TRANSCRIPT:
CLIENT: Hi.
THERAPIST: Hi.
CLIENT: I'm just happy to be here right now. I'm feeling, just all weekend was feeling very anxious and sad and I don't know why. I mean we went just out to Chris's sister's house, she has a new baby, to spend the weekend with them. Well first we just sat inside all day Saturday, which just drove me crazy because I hate sitting inside on a Saturday. It just makes me super anxious. I just want to get outside in the sun and it'd been raining all week. So I was frustrated. So I just took the baby for a walk by myself because I couldn't be inside. But I was also very sad that we're not - when we first moved here we lived with them for a month while we got settled and found a place to live and found a job and stuff.
And Chris's sister and I aren't super close, we don't - there are certain parts of our personalities that don't really match up, but we get along for the most part pretty well. And him and his sister get along pretty well. And they just don't offer - the whole weekend they were - they brought us dinner and bought us pizza yesterday and they're just really pretty generous with us. And everyone was just sad leaving his family and knowing that her kids are probably going to be the closest in age to our kids and that's really important to me that our families stay close. So I don't know, just emotional, a little bit sad for me, and I just felt sad about it but just more anxious than I expected to feel. I don't know. [00:02:11]
And I just got a call from my mom. So I'm - sorry, she's texting me here. I'm just - so on Friday she called me, or I called her for something, and she's like so Mark's bus driver just said he had a seizure on the bus and he's never had a seizure before. And she said do you think I should call the doctor? And I said well yes, I think you should go to the doctor and be seen. And she said well I'll just call. So she called and the doctor thinks it was a fainting spell but I don't know what she's basing that on. Anyway, sounds like it's fine, it's fine. Mark's been really anxious and acting out in school and he's just - he doesn't do transitions well. And he's, even if it's something he's excited about it still makes him really anxious and he just, he acts out.
And so he was really envious when Adam and I moved our things home and then left. And he didn't know that I'm going to be watching him over the summer. And so he's been, he hasn't had any accidents at school and he's been just I guess just acting out a lot. And I don't know it's just sad. And I think that John has been his primary caretaker after getting him off the bus and everything and I don't think that's been necessarily a very good fit. And makes him a little bit more tense, because John is really tense. John uses it basically as a tactic to get his homework done.
Anyway, my mom just called me and said that she had a few calls from Mark's teacher this weekend but she just didn't return them. And then she brought him to school today and his teacher said maybe it's best if Mark doesn't finish off the school year; if he just stays home. This is his last week of school. And my mom said I'm scrambling already as it is. Jenny is not here yet. The teacher oh I thought she was here and she could just take him. Mom was like no, I'm scrambling. And so, I guess the teacher said that he went on the hike and that was really hard for him, we did this and it was really hard for him and listing off things that were really hard for him, and my mom's just taking it all personally like it's her. [00:04:33]
And she's like I just want to cry, I just - so I said to her why don't you call the principal? That's his teacher's - it's his teacher's job to find an alternative solution that's going to work for him. It's her responsibility to take care of every kid in the class and maybe if he's being a nuisance - he has a [inaudible at 00:04:52] that maybe the [inaudible] needs to just take him out of the class. Maybe you need to contact the principal and say there needs to be - his teacher can't find a solution. Can you help me find a solution for this? But she just takes it so personally and she's like I just want to cry. She's just getting her feelings hurt. She said we took Rebecca, my stepsister, on a hike when she was twelve and she cried all the way. I'm sure Mark wasn't the only second-grader crying.
It's like well Mom clearly his teacher is unhappy about his presence in the classroom. He probably can feel that and sense that; it's probably making him more anxious and maybe it's a contributing factor to this fainting spell that he had. So I'm like I don't know my first instinct is all right let's think of alternatives here. We have a cousin Kelly, who's my age, who watched him for a weekend recently. Maybe Kelly can come pick him up a couple times from school. Maybe - and so I just had to backtrack, no they're on a field trip today and Kelly's there on Wednesday. Don't take it personally; it's not about you. Just figure out what's going to be the best solution for him because he's not doing well with this. [00:06:07]
And so now I'm anxious because I'm - I feel so upset for him. It's like he's there feeling so, he's clearly feeling so nervous and it just makes me so upset that his teacher can't find a solution and my mom, who's supposed to be advocating for him and supposed to be - I want to call the principal now myself but I know that I have no place to do that. And I'm not going to be heard and so - but I'm just pissed that nobody is figuring out what the best for him is. And I just - makes me so sad to think about he pooped his pants in school. He doesn't do that. And just I don't know what happened on the bus on Friday but the poor kid. And I just don't - I want to be there for him, I don't (ph) want to listen to her but I want to yell at her. I'm like I don't give a shit. It's not about you. It's not about you; it's about him. Find a solution for him.
She's not saying that - maybe his teacher is thinking he's a bad kid, who the hell knows but you're his mom and so what you're supposed to do is find a better alternative because if his teacher thinks he's a bad kid, that's not a good place for him. You know what I mean? It's just pissing me off. And that's just how she reacts to everything when we were kids. So now I'm finagling my [inaudible at 00:07:51], maybe I can get up there sooner, but I have my job. I can't just leave my job. And the girls do have camp, are signed up for camp full time next week. But that's not going to help his school this week. [00:08:13]
THERAPIST: It seems like you feel that this urgency and then so start to feel like it's all up to you.
CLIENT: She's not doing anything. I do feel that way because I know she's just calling me to vent and complain but why isn't she looking for a solution? I know there's not a solution, but let's look for alternatives. She just calling - I hate that mentality, like I'm just going to complain about the situation especially when it's not her - I mean I know it's her - but it's Mark's situation and I'm just pissed. Be absolute since she's not finding a solution or an alternative then I need to. Somebody needs to because if I suggest enough things to her eventually she'll...
THERAPIST: I mean you're feeling, clearly feeling someone who you love who's in deep need and isn't complete without help and you're sort of feeling that helplessness.
CLIENT: Well he's - yes, I just feel really bad for him. And he doesn't know even how to express himself. He's expressing himself all over the place, expressing himself through accidents and through acting out and that should be a huge sign to my mom this isn't working. And I think I'm reacting so much because this is just a common theme in my mom's parenting. Her kids act out and then she - and are asking for something and she just doesn't respond and takes it personally. This is just a theme. It's so infuriating. [00:10:33]
THERAPIST: I'm also thinking you're saying that you're so glad you're here today that you can say that for three more times after this. And you're losing a support too. And I imagine you're anxious about it.
CLIENT: Yes. And I messed my leg up running so I can't run. That sucks totally. I'm just - yes, I'm very anxious. I'm very anxious about a lot of things.
THERAPIST: Tell me about your anxiety about that.
CLIENT: About what?
THERAPIST: About leaving here. [00:12:02]
CLIENT: I don't know I just - it's all things that are predictable. I know how things are going to go and I know how - I don't know. I guess it just - I know what every day's going to look like. I know - I think I'm afraid of losing - here I feel like it's just me and Chris and I love that. It's just I feel like it's just us and we're just living our life on our own and I feel like when we move back there we're going to lose that. And I just, I feel like it's all going to be centered around my family. And I know if something like this happened today I would drop everything that I had and go fix it for Mark. And even though it feels really frustrating that I can't, I think sometimes it's really good that I can't. I think it's been really good for the last five years that I couldn't just drop everything and rush to fix or fix whatever my siblings or my parents needed. I don't know I just like things how they are. I just like knowing what everything's going to look like. [00:14:24]
Yes, I guess I just don't feel like I have any support at home. I don't have someone else that I'm going to go see yet; I don't have that lined up. I don't have any, like Devorah - Devorah's my close girlfriend. But everything's not figured out - my job yet. I don't know for sure when we're going to be moving into our apartment. Sometime between October 15th and November 1st, but that makes me anxious. I feel like I'm going to be surrounded by people but feel all alone. I don't - I feel different from everyone else.
Chris and I spent a lot of time I guess because I told him I was getting really anxious and upset so we just went for a walk together and went and sat on the patio outside somewhere or we sat on the back porch and just talked for a long time yesterday. I don't know. I was just saying that it's just - I don't know. Are we going to be able to even do that or are we going to be just - I don't know. [00:17:02]
I was feeling so okay the last week, two weeks. Just okay not...oh my God. William's doing things that not really that big of a deal. Like he'll move all the time. People - I've moved. I've done this. Why am I...? And when I step outside and look at it, it sounds real nice. If we go to New Hampshire and we live there for the next few years and leave for California that's an ideal situation, that we could have spent just a few years where I'm from and then end up in California where we're both happy. That's, I guess if I could just know for certain that we were going to be back in California in a few years. But then I know I'm going to do this all again. I'm going to do this exact same thing all again, just repeat it because I just don't like it. I don't like the feeling of just not know what it's going to look like. Even though I've lived in these places, even though I've just - I know I'll just do this all again. [00:19:27]
THERAPIST: Well this I think is your trauma talking. That unpredictability is so scary, and the feeling that if you can't ground yourself in some sort of very specific clear routine it can, things are just completely overwhelming because there's no other place to ground yourself except that kind of structure. So I guess part of what I'm saying is that in a few years from now, it might not be the same. You might not be doing all of this because hopefully by then you will have had an opportunity to work even more so through all of these issues. And I am actually, I hopefully will speak - I found one person who's highly recommended and hopefully will be able to speak early this week. And I'll be able to find out either A, if she has availability and still I don't think she's a couple's therapist and give a referral. If she has no availability it seems like she's pretty well networked in New Hampshire. So hopefully by Wednesday but certainly by this week I'll have some names for you. [00:20:43]
CLIENT: Oh, thank you so much. That would be a real comfort. I feel a lot, I mean it's interesting because I feel like even though I'm really upset and really nervous, I could be a lot worse had I not started coming here and just talking. I know this would be a lot worse. I know that I would have out of control - I'm not having, I've started reworking [on the train] (ph) and I started to have an anxiety attack just because I hate the train, I don't know why. And so I just said to Chris I'm starting to have an anxiety attack, and he just gave me a hug and just reassured me that everything was okay. And I was fine but I know that I would be having that feeling a lot more had I not come here. So for that I'm really happy. I feel like I [inaudible at 00:22:04] a nervous breakdown. Now I feel about like, I don't know. I feel a lot better. [00:22:16]
I'm trying to be grateful for things. Trying to see that I'm a lot stronger in certain ways even though I have these moments when I kind of lose it. Overall I'm doing a lot better and I'm trying to see - Chris and I [inaudible at 00:22:40] yesterday about 40 percent of law students graduating this year don't have jobs. He has a job and he has a job that has a lot of job security. I'm trying to be grateful and trying to figure out that we are moving back to a place that I do know and that I do have, even though the support is unsettling, I do have support; we're not moving to, we're not moving - I'm trying to really see the positives and trying to really be grateful for the things that we do have because we do have a lot. And we have each other so that's something. But that's what I'm trying to think about.
We need to buy a car before we move and we've been talking - we've talked to some - Chris was a friend to the guy at school who's a mechanic. And we were talking, we were looking into Toyota and he said, told a bunch of reasons and said for what you guys are looking for, a Subaru is probably your best bet. So we've been looking into that and all the problems with them. And Chris's been researching a ton, which as I said he really pays off in these moments because he really researches the hell out of that kind of stuff. And then we were, or Chris's brother in law, his sister's husband, really knows a lot about cars. So we called a bunch of places and then yesterday we all went to go look at a car together. [00:24:33]
But now Chris's convinced it's a scam. It's a really good deal but the title's not in the guy's name. And we pulled up the CARFAX on that and it was owned by one owner this whole time and then sold at auction, which isn't that big of a deal because the lady probably just traded it in and then the dealership sold it. But I don't know. Chris's convinced that something else is always - and he gets really worked up and so I just have to totally hand over - he was up until midnight looking at stuff, like reading all those articles online. And I was trying to, he was reading the message boards and I was saying like those message boards, sometimes you can't take too seriously. I have problems with the IUD and I go on the message boards and it's like I'm pregnant and my best friend is pregnant; everyone I know is pregnant. With these message boards, people get a little bit kooky from the absence of - let's do what we know what we can do, which is take it to a mechanic and call the DVM just to see what the registration is because I guess there's a problem if you - sometimes people will buy these cars from private, from individuals and then they can't get it registered because it's - I don't know, whatever.
So I just said we have the title right now. We have it in our possession. We could just call, we could bring it to the mechanic; those are the things we could do. If it's sketchy we just won't do it and just look for a new one. But he's like, for him it was this great deal he thought we were really getting. And so now he's feeling really let down. But so I totally - I was like all right I will just do whatever you want to do in this situation. I'll totally hand it over to you. I'm just, I don't know. Which is hard for me but it's not worth - he just doesn't want to be taken for a ride. [00:26:36]
Our friends they are [inaudible at 00:26:37] right now. Their car also broke down. They bought a Toyota, kind of like an irresponsible purchase. They got their tax return and they just bought a Toyota that day off Craigslist without any real research into it and it just totally broke down on Friday. Their mechanic said there's no way he couldn't go [inaudible] even repair it. The [drive plate] (ph) it's just not - there's nothing - so they're really mad at themselves, really frustrated. And I think Chris, having that just happen on Friday, is now extra paranoid about getting scammed. But, I don't know. So we're doing that right now. Sorry, it's my mom. Yes, [inaudible at 00:27:44]. So I texted Chris about it and he said what does your mom plan on doing about it?
THERAPIST: [inaudible at 00:27:55].
CLIENT: Exactly, my thoughts exactly. Nothing. We spent a long time talking yesterday about the things that we're going to do. I was listening to this podcast the other day and it was - there was a child development specialist on the podcast I was listening to. She was talking about a lot of people panicked from their childhood instead of from their child's needs, before their child's needs. They panic, it's like I loved playing Legos with my dad so I'm going to buy this Lego set and we're going to play Legos every day when what the kid really wants to do is throw a ball or they have these huge reactions to things. But it's not rooted to the same thing; it's rooted from them, not from their kid. And I was thinking I'm going to have a hard time with that. I've been having a really hard time with that and that's something that I'm going to need to really be aware of and be conscious of.
And so Chris and I were talking about it and I don't know I guess the - I think I'm also really upset about this going on because we were kind of just talking yesterday about I told Chris about the thing with my mom with the e-mail when I - just we finished our run together. And the first thing I had to do when I left was e-mail her and I said you don't have that. You don't feel the need to let your parents - even when he went through great loss. His mom had lost, one of the reasons he's thought about being an attorney since he was little was because his mom was. But he doesn't have these desires like call his parents and tell. He will; he'll call them later but it's mostly for him. He's proving something to himself and that's where it's all coming from. And I was saying that to him and he's like, yes, no I don't. I mean I tell my mom but mostly when I call her about multiple stuff it's because I'll want to have a discussion with her about a topic that we both think is interesting and I know that we'll both find interesting. I tell her about my grades but you're the first person I want to call and tell that to because you're my partner and I want to share that with you. [00:30:36]
But I still have this desire to meet, have my mom approve of me and I don't know, I think - we were just talking all about things that we were going to do and why we think they're important to do and try to step back from them. I was saying a lot of stuff like I think it's important that we spend a lot of one-on-one time with our kids and because I didn't get it. But even as I was saying it, I'm like I'm saying these things because I know they're important for kids but they're highlighted to me because I didn't get them. But I think that's also part of the reason I'm reacting so much to my mom because we were talking about things that we want to do as parents. And I just don't feel like I got a whole lot of parenting. I feel like I'm already a mother before I'm even pregnant, like more - have a greater desire to parent than my mom has ever had in her life. Does that make any sense? Like I want to...
THERAPIST: The difference between having kids and parenting. [00:32:04]
CLIENT: Yes. I want to help a person become anything that they want to be. I want to watch someone grow. Like taking Hetty to music lesson, I was just watching her. I know that I'm not her Gram [inaudible at 00:32:21], but just watching her grow from the beginning of the music class to the end of the music class was so - I loved, those experiences are so sweet to me. And so just seeing her light up and change and - she loved the drums and she could drum a whole song by the end of the music class and it was the sweetest thing. And I mean those kinds of things, I don't know, just seems so sweet to me. Those are the things that I'm really excited about watching. People just become who they're going to be and helping them do that.
THERAPIST: Well you talk a lot about feeling like you disappoint your mom. But you also talk about how your mom disappoints you, like how she's handling the situation with Mark. You find it - you get irritated with her, or at least you talk about being, I don't know if you actually get irritated with her or not. But at the heart of it you're really disappointed in her.
CLIENT: Yes, I don't feel like she's holding up her end of the deal. You know, he didn't ask to be like that. I don't think he asked for any - it's like you're not doing your job. This is what you signed up for but you're not doing it. I'm really disappointed. She could just be a lot better. With very - it doesn't take much. It really doesn't. It takes - for me if I had gotten that phone call I would've called into work, I would've turned my car around and I'd have gone back to the school and I would've marched my kid into the principal's office and said what are you going to do about this? This is not - I wouldn't have had a conversation but something needs to have happened. We need to make this work for him because he's the one who we need to be worried about. Not the teacher, not me, him. What's going to be best for him? And this is the school he's going to be in for the next six years. Let's make this work. [00:34:54]
I would've never cried because - I probably would've cried but - because my feelings were hurt. I would've cried because my poor kid was being essentially bullied by a teacher is how I feel. I just never would've done that. She knows he's just sitting in that class. How is she okay with knowing he's sitting in that class right now feeling the way that she knows he's feeling? And she's not doing anything about it? I just - I don't know. I don't know how you do that.
THERAPIST: Well let's think about it. What might go through or not go through a person's mind so that they can do that?
CLIENT: Well she probably thinks she has a little work to get done. She probably thinks she can't take any more time off from work. I don't know. Maybe she can't relate to the anxiety. Maybe she doesn't know how bad it feels for him. Maybe she thinks that it's the teacher's problem and she's kind of sticking it to the teacher by not getting her what she's asking for. I don't know. I don't know. I think that she just feels - I don't think that she sees solutions in that woman. But I don't know if she wants to. I don't know. What do you think? [00:36:55]
THERAPIST: I don't have any specific thoughts but I was very curious about how you make meaning of it.
CLIENT: What do you mean?
THERAPIST: Like what - you're saying I can't believe she acts like this. And so I was sort of wondering well if we try to believe it what would it look like or what are your thoughts about it?
CLIENT: Yes, I guess she just - I don't know. It seems like it's all rooted in kind of immaturity to me. It seems like it comes from a place of kind of wanting - you know just from the - I guess the teacher called her multiple times over the weekend and she just didn't answer the calls or return them. And I think she's kind of like trying to stick it to her. I think she just thinks I can't, I just - I have work, I have this and I have, you know. I guess she probably feels towards the teacher how maybe I feel towards her. Like this is your responsibility to find a solution. And I do feel that way about the teacher. I do think it's the teacher's responsibility but she can't and she's - I think it's contributing to [her pain] (ph). I think that she probably feels the way I feel a lot of times or maybe how blessed (ph) it may be not seeing a lot of - I can relate to that. I know that there's a lot of times that I don't - there may be a clear solution but I'm too emotional and I'm too emotionally in it to see a way out of it. The thing is I could never - I never - when she - I feel really bad for her. You know, she's really upset so I never get to that part [inaudible at 00:39:33] what I am.
THERAPIST: Yes, it seems like this sort of searching. Who's actually going to be the adult and are you de facto the adult because no one else is going to be the adult? Are you stuck being the adult?
CLIENT: But now I am an adult. Now I can move, changing at least or helping something. I don't know what I'm capable of. [00:40:22]
THERAPIST: Yes I do think it's very confusing for you where your responsibility begins and ends.
CLIENT: The lines are blurred a lot in my family. I think it's interesting for a few people in my family where my responsibility begins and ends. I guess I need to decide where it is and where I need to make it clear to myself, I guess. And then I can - boundaries, I really need to work on my boundaries.
THERAPIST: And what's the relationship between boundaries and responsibility?
CLIENT: I don't know.
THERAPIST: Because your mind went there for responsibility.
CLIENT: Because I feel like - I don't even create any boundaries for myself where I just - it all leads into the same. I just, I don't even have - as soon as she calls me to just vent, like she just wanted to vent and be upset. But I saw it as there's a solution and I need to be the one to find it. So I don't even have those boundaries for myself. Do you see what I'm saying? [00:42:05]
THERAPIST: Yes in my mind and they're very different situations. My mind went to your weekend in Chicago where people were complaining they had nothing to do or they didn't know what to do or whatever they were complaining about. You were like okay well let's get a plan and I have to do something now. Something needs to be done and I guess it will be me. And you feel like resentful that it's up to you but very guilty if you don't do anything. It's like a double bind.
CLIENT: Yes, if someone else isn't - because I don't ever see anyone in - no one else is in control and when no one is in control, I need to take the reins and it needs - but with my mom, she should be the one in control here. She shouldn't have - I feel a little bit resentful that as her daughter I'm being called that she's crying on the phone. What's happening to my brother and she's not doing anything about it. That makes me resentful and that pisses me off. Call your husband or do something. I don't know. And with everybody in Chicago it was really none of you want to - you have no motivation to have, do something for yourselves here? You're all just standing there like chickens with your heads cut off, roaming around like nothing. And for me it's like come on, come on. I feel like that should be my slogan, come on. That's just how I feel all the time. Like a sheep dog herding people. I have a feeling we're nearing the end of our time. [00:44:12]
THERAPIST: I understand we'll have to finish. But we are. We're not only nearing the end of our time today, we're really nearing the end of our time together and I do think - and there's so much to talk about, I do think it could be helpful for us to talk a little more about just what that feels like to end and the anxiety you're feeling about endings in general. What, a little bit more about the work and what you feel you've accomplished and where you'd like to go.
CLIENT: Yes, I would definitely - I would like to talk about that more on Wednesday. I guess that is one thing that I would like to - for myself it's easy to say I feel a lot better. I would like to stop for a moment and regroup and take a look and everything. So yes, I fully agree. I'm having a hard time with the endings. I'm not doing well with leaving the girls either so that's not getting any...
THERAPIST: There are a lot of good vibes.
CLIENT: Yes. Anyway... [00:45:19]
END TRANSCRIPT
