TRANSCRIPT OF AUDIO FILE:
______________________________________________________________________________
BEGIN TRANSCRIPT:
CLIENT: I've been keeping pretty busy so.
THERAPIST: Not much has been going on?
CLIENT: It has been pretty relaxing except with school starting and whatnot I've had a lot to like ready already and everything.
THERAPIST: Oh no. When did school start?
CLIENT: It started for me last Friday, but most people this week I guess, but that was the first day. And I had four of my five classes so it was like.
THERAPIST: Oh, yeah, you had them all.
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: At least you're ...now you know what you've ahead of you.
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: Five classes, that's a lot. Is that normal?
CLIENT: I use to - I was taking four because when I had transferred I was having a lot of trouble but I don't know I've had a lot since I don't have a job right now, I had a lot of extra time last semester and I figured if I could spend the time doing something because I was bored and didn't know what to do so.
THERAPIST: Definitely.
CLIENT: Take a class. And I'm trying to graduate like, you know -
THERAPIST: Maybe a little.
CLIENT: - a little earlier then I was going to.
THERAPIST: Okay, well that sounds good.
CLIENT: Yeah. (0:01:02.2)
THERAPIST: Did you manage to practice some of those statements that we had written down over the week?
CLIENT: I started to the first week after I saw you but since then I haven't really done any.
THERAPIST: I feel like that happens to everything, whenever there's a week.
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: Well, you kept up with it for the week?
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: And you were doing it when you first woke up in the morning?
CLIENT: More, I would remember more at night to do it before I went to bed but I guess that's more my own age to just calm down and kind of go to sleep.
THERAPIST: So yeah if that's what works for you. Do you help it helped at all?
CLIENT: I don't know because I haven't really had much of an anxiety feeling in the past like few weeks, I don't know.
THERAPIST: Gotcha.
CLIENT: Been very relaxed.
THERAPIST: Nice. You said you had a friend's boyfriend who was going to Vegas -
CLIENT: Oh yeah.
THERAPIST: - and they were planning this big thing and you were kind of feeling like you didn't want to go to the club.
CLIENT: Oh yeah well.
THERAPIST: So you were going to plan your own event, did that happen?
CLIENT: I never, I just didn't go with her kind of thing and then I went to Joliet for a few days with my brother and then I went to a Cubs game with my brother last week so I kind of kept busy in any ways, I haven't really gone out. (0:02:13.2)
THERAPIST: Okay.
CLIENT: But I've been, you know hanging out.
THERAPIST: Gotcha.
CLIENT: I guess with family.
THERAPIST: Was she angry that you didn't want to go or?
CLIENT: No. I guess she kind of understood it because I said like you know I don't like those places I'm not going being going with you kind of thing and she understood. And I think right now she's more kind of infatuated with the people she works with or something, she thinks they're like, it's like she wants to dress like them, she wants (inaudible - 0:02:35.9), alright, you do your thing.
THERAPIST: Where is she working?
CLIENT: Hawaiian Tropics (inaudible - 0:02:41.5). If you know what that is yeah so I don't know.
THERAPIST: Like is she, I mean do they have a store or is it?
CLIENT: They have a restaurant so she waitresses -
THERAPIST: Oh I never knew that.
CLIENT: - in a bikini.
THERAPIST: I mean I know like the sunscreen and stuff.
CLIENT: So she dresses in her bikini and like she's always trying to get me to work there and I'm like I could never I would never walk around in like a bikini and be able to do that like whatever she wants to do it. And then I guess those girls like, I don't know a whole different ways then, I don't know so. She does her thing with them - (0:03:17.2)
THERAPIST: Gotcha.
CLIENT: - sometimes. Yeah.
THERAPIST: So have there been any incidents like where you, somebody invited you out and you didn't go out other then that?
CLIENT: Other then her I guess because she'll invite me out pretty often with them and I use to feel like bad kind like I had to go out because we don't really go out so that was like the only thing that would happen.
THERAPIST: This is your roommate, right?
CLIENT: Yeah. My roommate would be going out with them and she would invite me or something and then I wouldn't go and she wouldn't end up going because I didn't know. But I guess since this summer I've kind of been missing most of the summer, she got use to going out with them and she's closer with them so it's kind of okay now like for me to just feel like no I'm not going. (0:04:03.1)
THERAPIST: Is that okay or is there some like, because you sounded like is there a little bit of jealousy that she has formed some new relationships or no not really?
CLIENT: I think I use to feel like that but to be honest now it's just kind of like woo alright now I don't have to go do that stuff or like pretend that I like to go to clubs. Like she doesn't have to bug me and.
THERAPIST: Yeah, yeah. Okay.
CLIENT: Kind of like a relief.
THERAPIST: Good, good. But the only thing that I do worry you know is that (inaudible - 0:04:31.1) obviously you don't have to go somewhere you don't want to go, but sometimes it gives you a good excuse now that she's not going to bug you any more to go out -
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: - that you kind of lost that and have to feel bad and you shouldn't have to feel bad but we still need to work on the social anxiety.
CLIENT: Well, I've kind of, because it has been awhile since I have gone out with friends so I told a few of my friends from my school and I told my roommate like I want to go out this coming weekend - (0:05:01.2)
THERAPIST: Okay.
CLIENT: - to kind of celebrate like we just started school again so now they all took that idea and ran with it so I think I'm going to be going out this weekend.
THERAPIST: That sounds really good. And it was your idea so now you can't back out.
CLIENT: Yeah, that's what I, I kind of, because I always feel like, like I'll always suggest something and then the time comes and I will back out or something so this time it's like oh alright let's do something and it's, I mean we're just going to be hanging out it's not going to be anything crazy so.
THERAPIST: You feel like you can handle that?
CLIENT: Yeah, hopefully.
THERAPIST: What do you mean, when you guys go out were you just going to go out to bar or?
CLIENT: Probably just a bar like we haven't all hung out in forever either, probably even most of the summer so.
THERAPIST: When you go out to a bar do you drink a lot?
CLIENT: I guess it depends on the night but most of the time I really don't and a lot of it has to do with my stomach because I'll have like a drink and I'll have to like sit there on it because like if I drink too much or something my stomach will get upset obviously. And then if I'm feeling fine I'll have like, it really depends on the night, but I'll have a few drinks and I don't get too crazy or anything.
THERAPIST: (inaudible - 0:06:07.1).
CLIENT: Sometimes my roommate she like will get like she doesn't even know where she is kind of thing and so I'm always like taking us home or whatever. That's another think like I, I don't know I think it's so annoying so I always leave early because I'm like alright I'm done.
THERAPIST: That's really hard. I know a lot of people I mean and it's an interesting case because a lot of people with social anxiety tend to drink a lot when they go out.
CLIENT: Really.
THERAPIST: Because it's easier you know when you're drunk you don't feel that anxiety but it's interesting because you can and I would say that's probably good thing because sometimes people with social anxiety develop alcohol abuse issues because (inaudible - 0:06:47.0) to compensate for the anxiety.
CLIENT: I'll notice with the more I do drink if I force myself or if it's not that bad then it will go away but it's like if I have anxiety most of time I can't, I can't even drink like water without like feeling nauseous so. (0:07:03.9)
THERAPIST: Well, as I said the more you do it, you know the easier it gets.
CLIENT: Yeah it's just it has been so long since we all like hung out and kind of.
THERAPIST: How are you feeling about that coming up?
CLIENT: I don't know, I don't have the too many nervous feelings but at the same time I don't know because it has been so long since I've gone out like I don't even know what to expect.
THERAPIST: Yeah, if that what's the most anxiety provoking?
CLIENT: Not really knowing.
THERAPIST: Not knowing.
CLIENT: Or just thinking that I don't know I guess like if I don't go, like I always think oh if I don't go what's going to happen and that like I don't know.
THERAPIST: Well, what's going to happen if you don't go?
CLIENT: Like I just feel like I'm always canceling and I always feel bad like.
THERAPIST: So if you don't go then you feel bad?
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: You don't like feeling bad and then you start feeling bad about yourself.
CLIENT: Yeah, like it's a whole team of reactions so that's why I am like that's probably what I'm most nervous about is getting the anxiety and not going. (0:08:00.3)
THERAPIST: It's interesting because you know it's like you get anxiety and it's not the situation that is most anxiety provoking it's the I'm going to let down my friends and I'm going to let down myself.
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: That creates the anxiety. But do you think ...like as you were saying do you think feeling that anxiety about maybe letting yourself down or letting your friends down, does that help you have less anxiety?
CLIENT: Not at all no.
THERAPIST: Not at all.
CLIENT: I don't know I just feel bad like I don't know.
THERAPIST: And we talked about this.
CLIENT: Change that.
THERAPIST: We talked about those self-statements that that's exactly you know what those will help with.
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: Because even though it's only talking about accepting yourself as someone who has anxiety, you know so you could feel better sometimes when you do turn down invitations, also alleviating that anxiety will make it so that you probably won't feel like you need to turn down as many situations.
CLIENT: Because then I like carry it over to like the next time I'm going to go out and I think alright well we went here last weekend and I didn't go and then if I don't go again then I'm like alright well the past two times we went out I didn't go and then like I just keep like a record until I guess it's too far gone. (0:09:12.9)
THERAPIST: And when, what happens if you missed the last three times are you likely then to say I'll probably miss this one too?
CLIENT: I feel like the more I don't go out the easier it is, I feel more guilty about it but it's just easier for me to say no. Like not easier maybe just I just feel more anxiety and I don't know I just don't.
THERAPIST: But then you know what every time you escape you're reinforcing that anxiety because you get that nice relief feeling, right?
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: I'm not going, woo, I didn't have to go. So I think it's really important in that situation you know to say it's okay to feel anxiety -
CLIENT: Uh-hmm.
THERAPIST: - it's okay to feel that. As you said you're human (inaudible - 0:09:58.5) anxiety, of course, you're going to feel it. (0:10:00.7)
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: Right? Why would it be surprising that you feel it? But if you really want to fight it you got to go out because every time you say I think I'm going to go, I think I'm going to go oh I'm not going to go your body has like, like a drug you know.
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: You have that delicious feeling of relief.
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: You know and it's really reinforcing. So every time you do it you're reinforcing it just like you said for the next time.
CLIENT: It makes it that much harder.
THERAPIST: So we need to work on tolerating that anxiety feeling.
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: So just because I feel anxiety doesn't mean I've got to run away.
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: Right? So can you tell yourself on top of the fact that I'm hearing anxiety and that's okay and I can accept myself.
CLIENT: Uh-hmm.
THERAPIST: On top of that we need to work on statements that I'm feeling uncomfortable and feeling you know I'm feeling I just -
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: - that I can stand it.
CLIENT: I think I just don't like actually physically throwing up or something or getting sick because that's what it all ...like that's what I feel like. Like at the whole time that I have anxiety I'm fighting like the throwing up regardless if I have something in my stomach or not it's like fighting that like feeling like the nauseous feeling and like I'm more just like I don't want to throw up, like I don't want to have to go to the bathroom, what if I don't make it to the bathroom. (0:11:23.9)
THERAPIST: So how often do you throw up would you say?
CLIENT: It has probably been awhile since I have because of anxiety. But it's like that constant battle like I'm like literally keeping it.
THERAPIST: Yeah, I didn't realize that it got so bad that you're throwing up.
CLIENT: Like I have to like three, like that's how the breathing works for me because I guess I'm tense so like obviously my stomach is not relaxing so the breathing works. But I get so nervous to actually throw up like, I mean it hasn't all summer I haven't gotten sick like that because of anxiety or. (0:12:01.4)
THERAPIST: When was the last time you think it might have happened?
CLIENT: I'm trying to, I guess last spring because I remember.
THERAPIST: Last spring or this past like right before the summer?
CLIENT: Yeah, right before the summer. I remember, I forgot I think it was like it was kind of building up after like, I hadn't seen Caitlin for like three weeks had gone by and like I didn't really talk about things because I don't talk about it kind of thing and it builds up and I was very kind of sad about not having a job, not having anything to do and at that point my friends were busy so it like built up and one day I just got really bad anxiety.
THERAPIST: Was it before going out or it was just something on your own?
CLIENT: It was just, I was, I actually was at the house for a week by myself, my family was away and I was watching the dogs. And then the week after my parents were back at work and my brother who lives at home he works too so he was at work, my friends were all busy and it was kind of just a lot of time by myself and a lot of time to just think about everything and I just really wasn't happy so. (0:13:16.0)
THERAPIST: So what do you think, I know it's a long time ago, but what do you think your thoughts would mean because this situation it wasn't like I'm really nervous I'm going to have to see people -
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: - it was more like oh I'm such a loser I'm not going out.
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: Right?
CLIENT: I just felt really guilty that I didn't have a job and like that's one thing that I guess I don't really think about until I'm sitting doing nothing and that's like the problem like because then at that point it's kind of like I spent all this time not doing anything about it and that's what I get upset over like I don't know.
THERAPIST: That's something we can work with. But what you know you're sitting there and you're thinking about I don't have a job and you're feeling anxiety would you say? (0:14:01.9)
CLIENT: Yeah, and also because I get comments like crazy from friends and my family and like my family not as much my brothers tease me that I don't have a job but that's, there are my brothers. And like my mom doesn't at all now because she knows that it has caused me anxiety or whatever and my dad really doesn't. But like my friends and like it bothers me when my aunts and uncles are like oh well what are you doing because I feel guilty like I should have a job.
THERAPIST: Why should you have a job?
CLIENT: Because I don't and everyone else does like.
THERAPIST: So if everybody else you know has a job why should you have a job?
CLIENT: Like I want, I want to help out like I don't know.
THERAPIST: Help out with?
CLIENT: Money and like.
THERAPIST: Could your parents pay for -
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: - your tuition? So you feel like you're not contributing?
CLIENT: Yeah. So I feel like, I don't know and plus I'm living here in this and I spend more money in here then I have ever spent like living anywhere else so it's like ...I feel like I should and like my friends will make comments all the time and whatnot and that drives me crazy. (0:15:15.0)
THERAPIST: This doesn't sound like you have anxiety you know we talk about what's the feeling that you're having when you throw up.
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: But it's more like guilt.
CLIENT: Yeah, a lot of guilt and it, I don't know if I sit and think about it then my stomach gets very like then it will start.
THERAPIST: Yeah. I'm thinking about what we could feel instead of guilt do you think that could be more healthy?
CLIENT: I don't know.
THERAPIST: Yeah. There's a nice sheet here that has some healthy or negative emotions. What do you think is a healthy or negative emotion for guilt, instead of feeling guilty?
CLIENT: Regret.
THERAPIST: Yeah, maybe regret. (0:16:01.8)
CLIENT: And that I haven't done ...
THERAPIST: Do you think that that would work? Because you're not going to magically not feel you know a little upset about the fact that you don't have a job, but maybe you know so I would prefer it if I had a job.
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: But I have anxiety which makes it hard.
CLIENT: I guess yeah.
THERAPIST: I'm just going to regret that I don't have it.
CLIENT: I just feel like the comments, even though people don't really realize they are just making fun or whatever I feel like sometimes like I can like my roommate I feel like has some bitterness and like, I don't know like I just feel like certain people like really mean it when they say things about it and it really likes gets to me like really.
THERAPIST: So it's the judgment as well?
CLIENT: And it like, it annoys me to some extent, it pisses me off but then it upsets me more then it like gets me mad so.
THERAPIST: So you get angry with other people briefly?
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: And then it more turns on yourself?
CLIENT: Yeah. And then I get really because then I think about what they said and I'm like well they're like my friend, my age, whatever and they're doing this so why can't I, like why am I not doing that. (0:17:09.1)
THERAPIST: And then it comes down to again unconditional love acceptance, right?
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: Well, it's like they can say whatever they want but they don't have my experience, right?
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: And working this job I think is something, if that's really what you want and not just what other people are pressuring you to do, then I would say that is something we can work through and that can be you know our homework assignments and we can practice doing imagery, going out and getting a job, things like that. But the judgments you know so what if they say, what are you thinking in your head, what is something that your roommate might say to you?
CLIENT: I don't know just a comment either about not doing anything or like.
THERAPIST: Like what oh you're just going to sit on the house anyway today?
CLIENT: Yeah, like and things like that and like sometimes like I don't know it bothers me because I know that I'm doing more work even though I don't necessarily have a job but just in general then she does like because she's a very lazy person. And sometimes it annoys me that like no one sees any, like people think I do nothing kind of thing and it's like I don't necessarily, like sometimes yeah. (0:18:19.1)
THERAPIST: So what would be so bad if other people couldn't see the hard work you did? Why would that be bad? Why would that mean something to you?
CLIENT: I just want, I feel like they kind of look down upon me like oh you don't do anything and I want to like at this point it's like, I don't know it's like really annoying like.
THERAPIST: And if other people looked down on you, you know would that be something that you couldn't stand? You can't stand when other people look down on you?
CLIENT: No I can stand it.
THERAPIST: It makes you feel bad about yourself?
CLIENT: Yeah, it just I, I think about it later on like I hate, I just hate when people like make the comments like I think it's very rude too because no one knows like really how I feel most of the time so I think it is really rude but. (0:19:06.7)
THERAPIST: There are some demands that you're telling yourself right now and I think they're pretty normal but that doesn't mean that they're healthy. You know something like other people should see the hard work that I do you know I think they should recognize that I'm working hard even if I don't have a job.
CLIENT: I don't mean that, I mean like I don't say anything about them or anything. Like why are they saying, why they like I don't know.
THERAPIST: So other people shouldn't judge me, I don't judge them they shouldn't judge me.
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: Right?
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: Is that the way the world works?
CLIENT: No, not at all.
THERAPIST: You shouldn't judge me, are people not going to judge you?
CLIENT: No.
THERAPIST: No. So we can't really control the judgments of others.
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: And that's something that's very hard to accept for you I think.
CLIENT: And like ...
THERAPIST: That's the part of getting the job and working on the same things right?
CLIENT: Yeah. I feel like everything like, if I don't have a job they make (inaudible - 0:19:58.4) you're so easy or whatever. If I do have a job it's like, like if I complain at all or something about my hours it's like oh why are you working you don't even have to work or something and they make kind of like a little snooty like I don't know and that bothers me. (0:20:14.0)
THERAPIST: Do you think everybody who gets judged feels bad about themselves when someone judges them?
CLIENT: I guess to some extent.
THERAPIST: Do you think? Every single person on earth feels bad.
CLIENT: No I guess most people can probably just don't care.
THERAPIST: How do they do that?
CLIENT: I don't know.
THERAPIST: Well, how do they not care?
CLIENT: Not think about.
THERAPIST: Do you think maybe, some people might care but they might say oh well you know she has a right to her own opinion or they can have their own opinion -
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: - and I think (inaudible - 0:20:45.4) but you know everybody has a different opinions, right?
CLIENT: Yeah, I guess everyone does and like I'm sure I judge people without realizing it.
THERAPIST: So how do you think you can help yourself? You know I mean this judgment thing I think goes just, right? (0:21:03.4)
CLIENT: Uh-hmm.
THERAPIST: This is for getting a job, this is for going out into bars.
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: If you're being judged. What does it matter if they judge? Does it affect you later, just a stranger judges you? Let's just work with a stranger because these people aren't strangers. If a stranger judges you what's so bad about that?
CLIENT: It's not I mean I don't know I guess normally like something like that, like a stranger I want to say wouldn't bother me but I think it all depends like I don't know.
THERAPIST: Yeah.
CLIENT: It shouldn't bother me. I don't know why I'm sensitive but.
THERAPIST: Yeah, I don't think you're sensitive I think that's normal but it's not working for you because it's like causing a lot of debilitating anxiety, right?
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: So we need to work towards just feeling a little concerned that okay maybe they're saying something about me whatever. But with your friends it means something more, right?
CLIENT: Yeah. (0:22:00.5)
THERAPIST: Are these people that you respect?
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: Would you say you respect your roommate?
CLIENT: Not as much recently but I don't know, I've got like mixed feelings now because we use to be so close and we've only been living together for like two years. So we were really close and now it's just ...
THERAPIST: So this girl who you don't even actually respect that much, when she judges you for not having a job.
CLIENT: It gets me very angry with certain people, like with her it gets me like just angry like why are you saying this.
THERAPIST: So you're saying that it feels like she gets you angry when she says this stuff?
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: But who is really getting you angry?
CLIENT: I guess myself I don't know.
THERAPIST: Because what are the thoughts you're having? She shouldn't judge me.
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: It's not her right to judge me, I don't judge her so these demands.
CLIENT: Yeah I think I just care too much like of what other people say, I don't know.
THERAPIST: And you have these automatic thoughts that say how dare should she, she shouldn't do that, that's not right that she's doing that she's suppose to be my friend.
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: Friends don't do that. Are these similar thoughts that you have? (0:23:06.9)
CLIENT: And it's like I always ...it's funny because my mom I feel like is so much the seam in that way and like whenever we go out together like often I guess, whenever we're out like if someone like says something or whatever my mom will take it like personally and I'll be like who cares like and I can easily like with her I can just like, well like she worries all the time. And with her I could easily see like why do you care if that person said, did or whatever but then when it comes to myself I'm like the same way like I worry about every little comment and.
THERAPIST: Do you have to be perfect all the time?
CLIENT: No I'm not.
THERAPIST: But do you think that you have to be perfect all the time?
CLIENT: I guess I try to strive to I guess.
THERAPIST: Because usually when your mom you know is being a little ridiculous about the judgment you're like oh mom get over it, it's not that big of deal.
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: With yourself, you know you hold yourself to a higher standard. Everyone in the room should always think that I'm okay, should always think of my highly. (0:24:08.6)
CLIENT: I don't know why I do that like.
THERAPIST: It's perfectionism.
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: So you can say, you know I prefer if people you know wouldn't judge me but I can stand in it and it's not going to ruin my fun if they do.
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: I'm not going to think badly about myself just because they may be judging me and you're not even sure.
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: Right?
CLIENT: Most people I feel like when I'm out and stuff aren't and I just think they are like I was like I'm careful with what I say like I don't know what to say like I always feel awkward in conversations and like.
THERAPIST: What's the thing that you worry about being judged? Is it looks, is it conversation, is it being smart, is it?
CLIENT: I think it's more conversation, more and then it's like I feel I don't know when I see family and whatnot I even get anxiety like what am I going to talk about because I know they're going to bring up the job thing and. (0:25:04.6)
THERAPIST: Okay. So the job thing is one major one you think people are going to ask you to talk about your job and you don't have one?
CLIENT: Yeah. And it's kind of, it's, I feel embarrassed because when I do talk about it with family and friends they do comment so it's like when I talk about it with other people when I say I don't have a job I feel like I should be embarrassed.
THERAPIST: You know a lot of people don't have jobs and they're undergrad. To be honest I didn't have a job in my undergraduate.
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: I mean I could have felt a little guilty, I probably should have.
CLIENT: I don't know for some reason I feel like if I was on a campus like I was my first year I don't think I would feel guilty but living here people like, because some of my friends who make fun of me for not having a job only have a summer job they don't have one when they're at school and so I don't know why I feel like that I'm here I should have a job.
THERAPIST: Have you ever said something to like maybe your roommate, I'm really offensive about that maybe could you not tease me about that, I'm trying my best? (0:26:05.8)
CLIENT: No I haven't. I don't think it would be, the only people maybe my family like my parents.
THERAPIST: Have you said to your family and they've stopped?
CLIENT: Yeah. And my dad, well, my dad will tease me once in awhile but like he's very nice about it now and he's like you know I'm just kidding, right, that kind of thing.
THERAPIST: What if you said something to your brothers?
CLIENT: I don't really care. They would, I don't know, maybe they would take it into consideration but the would still tease me. I don't really care about them as much because they're my brothers. It's more like my roomie, my friends who I don't live with, and when I ...
THERAPIST: Maybe we start with one person, the roommate. Maybe you don't have to wait for her to bring it up again, maybe you could be like yeah I'm thinking about getting a job again it really upsets me when people, you know make me feel bad about it, I'm trying my best but I'm just it's hard.
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: So you know if you could maybe make a conscious effort not to talk about me not having a job. (0:27:05.5)
CLIENT: Yeah, that would be good if she did. Like if I was able to say that.
THERAPIST: Do you think you could?
CLIENT: I can, I just, I feel like why like not she has a right to say something but like.
THERAPIST: Well, you're not telling her not to you say it would be nice, I would prefer if you didn't talk about it because it makes me really anxious and I'm trying to work on it.
CLIENT: I guess I never like told many people, like my friends that like I do have anxiety with getting, actually getting a job and like each time, I feel like every time I tell them something about anxiety and how I feel like it's hard for me but then I'm relieved after.
THERAPIST: Because you said that in talking about your anxiety. I mean I think part of it is you need to learn how to handle when people, people aren't going to always, that's one of the first things oh what do you do? You know it's like one of the first things that people say.
CLIENT: The first question.
THERAPIST: But also I think part of dealing with your anxiety is asserting yourself. (0:28:04.5)
CLIENT: Yeah. I think.
THERAPIST: What do you think prevents you? Haven't you wanted to say this before to her?
CLIENT: Oh yeah.
THERAPIST: So what stops you?
CLIENT: I just kind of let her, try to let it roll off my shoulder and then, I don't know I don't really, I don't really like confrontation and so like -
THERAPIST: Why?
CLIENT: I don't know I'm very like there's a lot that has been bothering me with her and like I just kind of take it and like don't really say anything. Like I get mad about the same things that happen over and over and I just don't say anything.
THERAPIST: Do you think that helps the relationship with her?
CLIENT: No it has kind of made me more distant not her, like she's the same and whatnot but it's me, it gets me angry at her for no reason like I'll be angry at her and I'll be why am I angry.
THERAPIST: So it's not helping your relationship, it's making it harder to live with her.
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: But yet you feel good. So what do you think is going to happen when you confront her, do you think she's going to scream at you? (0:29:01.4)
CLIENT: No because there are times when I confront her about things and she is so nice and whatnot and she's like oh my god I'm so sorry and then.
THERAPIST: Do you think she'll feel bad?
CLIENT: Yeah, she may, I don't know.
THERAPIST: Is that what stops you from saying it? What stops you from saying it?
CLIENT: I guess I feel like I don't know.
THERAPIST: Do you feel that you don't have the right to tell people what to say?
CLIENT: Not really, I don't know I just feel like bad. I don't know how to explain it, I feel bad. I don't want to offend anyone else. I don't know why I'm so like I don't ever like offend anyone else kind of thing and I don't know why. Like I guess because I feel like you I don't ever want to be offended.
THERAPIST: But this is just saying what you think.
CLIENT: Because I don't, I guess I don't say it to her, things to her because I feel like she might take it the wrong way, I don't know how she's going to take it. (0:30:00.1)
THERAPIST: But other people talk all the time, right?
CLIENT: Oh yeah she's a big talker.
THERAPIST: You know it's funny because a lot of times you worry that people will take things offensively but you know you're letting, she might be taking offensively that you're pulling away from her.
CLIENT: That's true.
THERAPIST: She might be relieved if you talk about the things.
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: You and all relationships you need to have the openness and if you are holding back from her you're never really going to have that closeness with her.
CLIENT: Yeah that's true. It's definitely we've been drifting and whatnot. I just I don't know I don't want to make her feel bad if I say like I don't like ...I guess with telling her about the anxiety about a new job -
THERAPIST: (inaudible - 0:30:37.5).
CLIENT: - would be okay. Like that ...
THERAPIST: And this is amazing you don't want to make her feel bad. Do you have a control to make her feel bad?
CLIENT: No.
THERAPIST: Can she make you feel bad?
CLIENT: Well, if I let her.
THERAPIST: Yeah. So she would have to let it and you can be nice about it.
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: You're not saying anything mean this is just something that you're sensitive about.
CLIENT: Yeah, I guess. I guess I could start with letting her know about my anxiety about the job and then. (0:31:08.3)
THERAPIST: Do you want to practice?
CLIENT: I don't know what I would say.
THERAPIST: Alright. So what, where do you normally like meet up, is she usually watching TV and then you see her in the living room?
CLIENT: Yeah more in the living room.
THERAPIST: Okay. So she's watching TV, what is her name?
CLIENT: Becca.
THERAPIST: Becca, I'm Becca, I'm watching TV, I'm in my bikini by the way so I just got back from work.
CLIENT: So I can laugh. I don't know, could I talk to you? I'm starting to look for a job and I just wanted to let you know that I'm pretty sensitive about it.
THERAPIST: Yeah I know.
CLIENT: Things, when you say things like that it upset like it kind of gets to me like my anxiety, like she knows about my anxiety.
THERAPIST: I'm still Becca.
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: What do you mean it gets to you?
CLIENT: Well, I don't know it makes me feel really bad and ...(0:32:03.6)
THERAPIST: When I say what?
CLIENT: Judge, like any judgments about me having a job or why I don't have one it's just very hard for me for the past few months.
THERAPIST: Have I done that recently?
CLIENT: I don't know if I could like recall the last time. I haven't been looking for a job but just any little comment about oh you don't do anything like is like.
THERAPIST: It hurts your feelings?
CLIENT: Yes.
THERAPIST: I'm sorry I didn't mean to do that.
CLIENT: Now I feel like the way it's going to go is she going to feel bad like oh I'm sorry and like. I don't know if I don't want her to feel bad.
THERAPIST: Maybe she should feel a little bad, (inaudible - 0:32:45.0) but you know she has been judging you. And maybe say you know this is my own issue and I know you probably were just joking.
CLIENT: Yeah. I think that would be better.
THERAPIST: And then maybe if you're worried about leaving it that way you could just be like how was your day afterwards, you know what I mean? (0:33:02.8)
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: And she's going on with the conversation.
CLIENT: I think, I don't think the conversation will end awkward, I don't know. I think just taking that first step to actually say something.
THERAPIST: Do you think she would likely be like oh can you tell me when that happened? Is that something that she would do or she would just?
CLIENT: She would, I feel like she's very overwhelming at times, I feel like she's like oh my god I'm so sorry and whatnot and so I think she would be nice about it but I don't know if she necessarily stop all the comments. I feel like it's more me being sensitive about it because like it's just in regular conversation like obviously sometimes I do do nothing so what is she going to say like.
THERAPIST: So at the same time we need to work on caring less about the judgment -
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: - and the demands that you're saying in your head that you don't realize that you're saying, you know that she shouldn't do that and that gets you really riled up and then you start getting a little angry and then you feel guilty.
CLIENT: Yeah it almost like a cycle. (0:34:00.7)
THERAPIST: A cycle. So we have to work on saying that I would prefer that people wouldn't say these things but I can't control it.
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: And I'm going to try to, you know to not let it make myself feel bad about myself.
CLIENT: Yeah. I don't know I just I don't think I've ever felt like it was okay not to have a job and I don't know how my mind frame switched from ...when I headed into college I was like woo I don't have to work like and then I came to the city and it's like everyone works, everyone you know, I'm a full time student, I'm a full time worker and so it's like.
THERAPIST: Do you want to go full time job?
CLIENT: No, not at all I really don't.
THERAPIST: So how are you going to go about getting a job?
CLIENT: I don't even know at this point where, I guess I can look anywhere but I'm trying to avoid like retail and whatnot and besides like I really don't even know an entry level like whatever like where to even look because I feel like ...
THERAPIST: Why are you trying to avoid retail?
CLIENT: Because that's pretty much what I mainly worked in and I cannot stand it. (0:35:05.0)
THERAPIST: Why can't you stand it?
CLIENT: I just don't, well, I guess it depends on where really because I worked like Forever 21, Gap, so it's and Express and so I've worked like different levels or whatever. And when I worked at Forever 21 they would keep us there until 1 in the morning cleaning the store and that I will not do because.
THERAPIST: Okay. So it wasn't the social aspect of it?
CLIENT: Yeah. When I worked at Gap, it was okay I guess. I guess it's more, I guess I was just more bored then when I've worked at other jobs besides retail.
THERAPIST: Okay.
CLIENT: But I guess that's really I don't have to not work in retail.
THERAPIST: Okay. I was just making because I don't care where you work, I just wanted to make sure you're not avoiding something because of social interactions.
CLIENT: No that's just a general, that's mainly for any job any.
THERAPIST: Any job you'll have to mainly. So what other kinds of jobs are there? Would you want to work in a restaurant? (0:36:02.4)
CLIENT: See I always ...
THERAPIST: As a bikini waitress?
CLIENT: I always want like thought that would be nice, like I've been a hostess but that was in Joliet so I never really had the anxiety as much there but.
THERAPIST: That would be something (inaudible - 0:36:19.5) to be a hostess.
CLIENT: Yeah. It wasn't, like I enjoyed it actually it wasn't too bad I just ...I don't know I've been thinking more just, I would want to learn how to waitress or whatever, but how do I go about that? Like especially with my anxiety like I'm just going to go start working some place and have them train me as a waitress like I don't know, I just don't see that for me.
THERAPIST: Well, I mean you never know because sometimes something like that could be very good for you.
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: Something like that could have you, I mean you got judged all the time how many times have you said well the hell is the waitress?
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: Right? Or people are immune to waitresses sometimes. (0:37:03.5)
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: And at the stand you would say oh well whatever I'm having a bad day.
CLIENT: And my only thing is like I'm more nervous about the training and how I'm going to do and that, with that, I don't know.
THERAPIST: Well, you're a pretty competent worker why would you not be able to?
CLIENT: I don't know because a lot of my friends have been waitresses or are waitresses and I don't know I'm just nervous to like learn and be thrown in. I guess both of my two closest, my roomie and then my closest friend both have told me like oh on my first or second day like I dropped a huge thing or and one friend still drops things and she has been working at the same place for like a few years, but then I think if I did that I would feel like I don't know very embarrassed and I don't know that I would be able to continue on. And like all these thoughts get in my head like for reasons why I can't do that. (0:38:02.7)
THERAPIST: So where do most people look for jobs now? Do they just go into stores or go into restaurants and say do you have any openings?
CLIENT: I guess you have to do, I guess that and then also on the Internet and also if you know someone it's just really getting lucky I feel like.
THERAPIST: Okay. So why don't you start walking in, I think that's actually a good social anxiety exercise anyway. Why don't we pick out we have like two minutes left.
CLIENT: I'm trying to think of like ...
THERAPIST: Where can we go?
CLIENT: Areas or something.
THERAPIST: Are there any stores that you would like to work at?
CLIENT: Nothing specific with retail. I guess more of a Gap type store just because they're very good with your breaks and then some give too many breaks.
THERAPIST: Okay. So Gap and probably American Eagle.
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: Done as the same way? So this week ...is there a Gap by you? (0:39:02.0)
CLIENT: No, there are a few in Chicago.
THERAPIST: Okay. So I want you to walk into Gap and you may feel stupid because they might be oh you have to look online you know. Don't apologize you're going to say okay (inaudible - 0:39:14.9) but I want you to walk into one Gap and one Bebe -
CLIENT: Okay.
THERAPIST: - and ask them, "how do you go about getting a job?"
CLIENT: Okay.
THERAPIST: That's your homework.
CLIENT: I'm thinking of like, I don't know, I want to do that for like the hosting too maybe.
THERAPIST: Okay.
CLIENT: But I don't know what to like with that I feel like it's harder with restaurants, like I had my last hostess job because I knew someone who had been working at the restaurant.
THERAPIST: Well, you don't have to say that. I've been a hostess before, I'm looking to.
CLIENT: But I feel like how do you find out like I don't know when restaurants are hiring.
THERAPIST: You don't, just walk in.
CLIENT: I guess just walk in. I guess that is ...
THERAPIST: And they'll let you know where to go from there.
CLIENT: I guess that is how I have got each of my jobs is more just going in and.
THERAPIST: Well, yeah why don't you say, you know can I speak to your manager I want to talk about getting a job. (0:40:02.9)
CLIENT: Okay. I don't know where to.
THERAPIST: I would probably go to a restaurant that is probably like you know have a lot of business because the economy is you know lots of places aren't hiring but.
CLIENT: Yeah, that's.
THERAPIST: I think this is a good social exercise because people are going to, people might judge you, people might -
CLIENT: I know.
THERAPIST: - people might well people might give you positive feedback, you know but in the end the best thing that you're going to have is negative because it's going to make you stronger and make you better for the next time, right?
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: You had all these experiences where people were nice you would be like, they wouldn't prepare you for when you actually got judged, right?
CLIENT: Not at all. I think I just, I don't know I wasn't really ready I don't know because it's just so different living here then anywhere else.
THERAPIST: And now you don't have a way to back out. So there are two places you can add to the list, okay?
CLIENT: Okay.
THERAPIST: So your homework is to go into a few stores, ask for the manager and say you're interested in finding a job. Do you have a resume?
CLIENT: Yes.
THERAPIST: So you can bring that with you. (0:41:01.6)
CLIENT: Actually I haven't changed the.
THERAPIST: Okay, just bring it with you, you know and say you're a college student you know and you're looking for a job and if they have any advice, you know if it's a franchise, they are like a chain you can say where should I go and what should I do I just wanted some information.
CLIENT: Okay.
THERAPIST: You can't feel stupid about getting some more information, right?
CLIENT: Yeah. And I guess they wouldn't even remember me like if they aren't hiring.
THERAPIST: Do you have a strong handshake?
CLIENT: No.
THERAPIST: Why don't we try, squeeze a little more, there you go, okay? Because nobody likes a (inaudible - 0:41:39.6). It's okay I have a friend who has a extremely painfully strong handshake that's almost inappropriate. But yeah don't be afraid to come on and you can even pretend you're an actress you know. I'm acting with someone with confidence. (0:42:00.5)
CLIENT: The whole things like that.
THERAPIST: Exactly. So why don't you try that out, okay?
CLIENT: Okay. Alright.
THERAPIST: Oh actually I have something else for you. Some more homework. In my supervision class we have this format where you can make up your own questionnaire and this one has been specifically designed for you.
CLIENT: Oh.
THERAPIST: So this is about social anxiety.
CLIENT: Okay.
THERAPIST: (inaudible - 0:42:24.9) every week, is that okay?
CLIENT: Yeah, that's fine.
THERAPIST: I thought this would be a good maybe bring it home because I thought if you did it here it would be right after we just practiced everything it wouldn't be as helpful.
CLIENT: Okay.
THERAPIST: So it you can do it just sometime during the week.
CLIENT: Alright.
THERAPIST: Not all the questions are entirely relevant to you, fill it out the best you can and bring it back next week.
CLIENT: Okay.
THERAPIST: And I will give you another one.
CLIENT: Alright.
THERAPIST: And this way we can actually chart and see if it's getting better, getting worse and see if we can anything different.
CLIENT: Okay.
THERAPIST: Help you along the way.
CLIENT: That's fine.
THERAPIST: Okay. And do you have a relaxation tape?
CLIENT: No.
THERAPIST: They do sell them, CDs downstairs if you're ever interested (inaudible - 0:42:56.3) this week.
CLIENT: I'm not really sure like what I don't know if you have any titles or anything.
THERAPIST: No right downstairs they have CDs about, now just a few of them. (0:43:04.9)
CLIENT: Oh.
THERAPIST: I'll look at which ones I think would be best for you.
CLIENT: Okay.
THERAPIST: Maybe we can pick one out next week?
CLIENT: Alright.
THERAPIST: Okay.
CLIENT: I'll look at them.
THERAPIST: Oh, also I'm sure I don't know what your schedule is but I do have an opening because you have a make-up.
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: I do have one tomorrow at 5, is that something that would work for you or do you want to go another week and?
CLIENT: I'm trying to think of when my class is. I think I have class right at that time, yeah it's until 6:50 so it starts around.
THERAPIST: Okay. So then the following the Friday.
CLIENT: Okay.
THERAPIST: Maybe we could have it, I don't have any cases yet, do you, would you like to put one in?
CLIENT: I have class all day but between 12:30 because I'm going to be right near here, 12:30 and 2:30 I have.
THERAPIST: I'm here on Fridays until 7.
CLIENT: Okay. So after 5.
THERAPIST: Yeah.
CLIENT: What about like I guess closer to 5, as close. (0:44:00.5)
THERAPIST: Okay, yeah, it's 5, work for you on Friday? I think I have some things no, no, that's at 6 so at 5?
CLIENT: Okay. Yeah.
THERAPIST: Yeah, that would be great.
CLIENT: I'll take that then.
THERAPIST: I think, I'll call you if I get it wrong. 5 and that's -
CLIENT: This Friday?
THERAPIST: Not this Friday, next Friday.
CLIENT: Okay, next Friday.
THERAPIST: Okay? Great.
CLIENT: I'll have to write that down once I get home.
THERAPIST: Okay. Do you want me to call and leave a message for you?
CLIENT: Well, I'll see you next.
THERAPIST: Yeah.
CLIENT: Okay.
THERAPIST: Have a good week Theresa.
CLIENT: Alright, thank you very much.
THERAPIST: I'm glad things are going well.
CLIENT: Thank you.
THERAPIST: I can't wait to hear how it goes. Bye.
CLIENT: Bye.
END TRANSCRIPT
