TRANSCRIPT OF AUDIO FILE:
______________________________________________________________________________
BEGIN TRANSCRIPT:
COUNSELOR: March 30th, Session 4. 
UNKNOWN WOMAN: And have the initials? Client is (inaudible at 0:00:08.2).
COUNSELOR: J.S. (Inaudible at 0:00:14.7). Well, maybe we should go back to our original time.
PATIENT: I think that's better, yeah.
COUNSELOR: Yeah.
PATIENT: Yeah. I mean I don't want him to know what I was doing here, you know? So...
COUNSELOR: No. I mean it is - we can do it in another room. But...
PATIENT: I missed like four trains. The A train was just, you know... I ran to get the local and for some reason it's not on the same platform. And I worked out over the weekend. I couldn't move Monday. I mean I couldn't get out of bed on Monday and I'm still like really stiff.
COUNSELOR: Yeah.
PATIENT: So I tried to run down to catch the C, and then of course I missed that and it's like (inaudible at 0:01:02.9) just not a pleasant drive. Oh gosh, seems like it's a lot more than a week. You know, just that two days makes a big difference. Yes, I'm a little stiff. I try to keep up with my girlfriend who has been working out for a couple of months and I think I overdid it.
COUNSELOR: You hurt your arm?
PATIENT: Oh, that's carpal tunnel, yeah. No, that's been acting up for the last couple of months now, since I've been using the computer a lot. Oh, this is giving me a headache. So...
COUNSELOR: So...
PATIENT: And my eyes are really blurry for some reason. I think I probably need glasses. I can't really see very clearly; it's like a fuzz.
COUNSELOR: Right now?
PATIENT: Yeah. Even like... Usually it is distance, but now it is like even where you are is like it's slightly fuzzy. 0:02:09.5 
COUNSELOR: Yeah. So a lot is going on, a lot of physical stuff.
PATIENT: I think so. I've been fighting insomnia - not insomnia - you know, not wanting to get up and do things. And I've been doing okay, but it's a struggle, you know. I'm having a real hard time getting up in the mornings. But I don't have any trouble sleeping any more; I stopped drinking soda so that seemed to help a little bit.
COUNSELOR: So where are you right now?
PATIENT: Right now I'm like really hyper; I don't know why, very hyper. Just before I came in I took a puff of a cigarette. Smoking like relaxes me, usually does, but took a good puff.
COUNSELOR: So you feel hyper.
PATIENT: I feel a little hyper, yeah. I don't know. I think it's the...
COUNSELOR: What's that like?
PATIENT: I hate that feeling, you know. I don't feel like I have control over the way I feel. My mind is racing like a million miles an hour, but it's actually nothing.
COUNSELOR: You feel distracted?
PATIENT: Yeah, a bit distracted, not settled. My heart seems to be pumping really fast and it's a very uncomfortable feeling that I'm going to have a - not a heart attack, but like a similar kind of a feeling, like I'm going to pass out or something.
COUNSELOR: I'm wondering if coming late has upset you in some way.
PATIENT: Oh yeah. I don't really like the "Oh God, I'm 20 minutes late." I don't like to be late either so I feel like I'm being in a rush and that always gets me feeling like this.
COUNSELOR: What else about being late? 0:04:17.3
PATIENT: I just don't like being late, you know. I've always been on - I try to be on time. I'm usually a little bit early so that I'm a little more - I'm settled in, I'm not feeling like I'm rushing into things.
COUNSELOR: So you feel rushed right now?
PATIENT: I don't feel rushed into things, I just feel very rushed. I just...
COUNSELOR: Things are rushing you.
PATIENT: Running, yeah, running. And of course when you're running late people seem slower. The train seems to run slower so you get more aggravated. People in front of you aren't walking that fast. Oh God. So...
COUNSELOR: Well, just take your time and give yourself an opportunity to settle in for the time that we have.
PATIENT: Yeah. And of course they had asked us to bring some chicken soup for the people at the job so I'm carrying this. You know, my wrist is hurting, I'm carrying my briefcase. I haven't done much thinking at all for the last week. I know that I was supposed to think about my whole relationship with my mother and how she makes me feel. I don't know. Last week I just got back into the rut of working for certain hours and then coming home and just putting on the TV set. I don't know. I seem to be going through spurts of wanting to conquer the world and then I want to do everything and then not wanting to do anything and just not having the energy. 0:06:37.0
COUNSELOR: What is that feeling about, not wanting to do anything, not having any energy? What does that feel like?
PATIENT: At the time I'm going through it it doesn't feel bad. I don't feel - I don't really feel that bad. It's when I know that I have to do something and then realizing that I really don't want to do it. I don't know, it's weird. I don't know why I feel that way. I wonder if something is wrong with me. I've been taking - I know that I'm also anemic and stuff so I'm supposed to be taking stress pills and multivitamins and stuff like that. So I've been doing that for the last week also and I don't feel any more perked up, you know.
COUNSELOR: What would you be doing if you were perked up?
PATIENT: I wouldn't be sitting home watching TV.
COUNSELOR: What would you be doing?
PATIENT: I don't know. It's like once I get home there isn't really much to do. I mean there's like the neighborhood bar and then I don't really have people that I hang out with in Ann Arbor, you know. I mean I grew up in Detroit and that's the area that I'm really familiar with. 
Do you have any water?
COUNSELOR: There's a water fountain if you need to...
PATIENT: Oh, around the corner, you mean? 
COUNSELOR: Um-hmm.
PATIENT: Okay, yes. My mouth is really dry. 0:08:27.5
I'm sorry, I just... I didn't see you so I thought maybe you said no. It's not going really well, is it? I don't know. For the last couple of weeks I just seem to be going blank on you, you know. I don't know. 
COUNSELOR: Is that what you are feeling...
PATIENT: I don't know what to talk about any more.
COUNSELOR: Is that something that...
PATIENT: I don't want to talk about day-to-day stuff, you know. I just...
COUNSELOR: What's your sense of what's not going well?
PATIENT: It doesn't feel smooth. It doesn't feel like it is moving. I don't know. It doesn't feel like it is being accomplished, you know. I don't want to talk about this with the train ride, but that's what I seem to be talking about, you know.
COUNSELOR: Okay. And what's your sense of why you're talking about that instead of the things that you want to talk about?
PATIENT: I don't know.
COUNSELOR: Well, what are you feeling right now?
PATIENT: Tired. I don't really feel... I don't have the energy to like think and try and come up with something to say and figure out what I need to talk about for the day.
COUNSELOR: Okay. Well, maybe...
PATIENT: It's been kind of bugging me that we're talking about, well, what does it feel like to go through that. I don't know. It doesn't seem to sit well with me.
COUNSELOR: Can you tell me a little bit more? What doesn't sit well with you? What happens?
PATIENT: The idea of talking about what my feeling is when I talk about feeling aggravated. It's an aggravation. I don't really know how to describe aggravation, you know. 
COUNSELOR: So when you're feeling aggravated and I say to you, "What's that like..."
PATIENT: Yeah, that's like really irritating.
COUNSELOR: You wind up feeling more aggravated.
PATIENT: Yeah. I don't know. I'm not... I don't know. Maybe it's the type of therapy. I mean I know that that's... It seems to be that's the goal, you know, is to talk about now and what you're going through, what you're feeling now. I don't know if maybe that's just not my style, you know.
COUNSELOR: Well, what would you like to do? I mean what's your sense of what would be helpful for you?
PATIENT: I don't know. Pick a topic and then just probe it, I guess, you know.
COUNSELOR: Probe it, me probe you. 0:12:04.7
PATIENT: Go into depth, you know. I guess I prefer talking about the past or the feelings in the past and then trying to make a connection as to whether or not that has any impact in my current situation, you know. You know, if the past has influence in the way I am now and trying to establish a pattern and learn to like redirect - come up with a different behavior pattern or - oh, I don't know. It's getting hard to explain.
COUNSELOR: Well, I think you're angry.
PATIENT: I do feel angry for some reason. I feel very agitated.
COUNSELOR: I think that's really to the point, and when I ask you how you're feeling it seems to make you more angry.
PATIENT: It does make me more angry.
COUNSELOR: But when I ask you to talk about the present you really want to not talk about it so much.
PATIENT: Well, because it's not so much about the present, because what's happening in the present is nothing really happening. You know, I felt angry, I felt frustrated, and I was - for me I guess that was bad, you know. Talking about how that makes me feel more, just what else is there to talk about, you know? I'm angry or I'm frustrated and I said why I was frustrated. There isn't anything else. There is no "Well, what does that make you feel?" It makes me feel angry, you know. 0:14:12.5
COUNSELOR: But I think you're angry at me.
PATIENT: No. I think I'm angry at the way it's going. I guess I'm not happy. I was really happy. The second meeting I felt went really well, I felt like we accomplished a lot, and then the last meeting just seemed really not... I mean the reaction between the two of us I thought was really well, went really well, but I didn't feel like I got anything accomplished. I left feeling very unsatisfied as to...
COUNSELOR: Do you remember what we were talking about?
PATIENT: Well, I know I wasted a lot of time talking about my incident on the train, but then we went into a little depth towards the end with my mother and then that just left me totally blank.
COUNSELOR: See, I think that is to the point in a way, because when you were talking about your mother and you started to feel very dumb and things got hazy for you, do you remember that?
PATIENT: Yeah. I couldn't really think clearly, but I don't know if that was the reason why I feel that it's not going anywhere. I mean I like to go into depth. I just don't know how, you know. And I guess I'm looking at you to guide me to talk about certain things and I don't feel that I'm getting that. You know, you seem more interested in what I'm feeling right now, about I don't know what. 0:16:14.1
COUNSELOR: Well, what would you like to talk about?
PATIENT: I'd like to talk about stuff like the problems I'm having with my mother, problems I'm having with my relationships and stuff like that.
COUNSELOR: Well, why don't you start to talk a little bit and we'll take it from there? Well, let me say one more thing about you said that you wanted me to probe you. I'd like to know what that's about or why that's important for you, why that would be helpful.
PATIENT: Why? It like gives me an opening, you know. If you're asking me certain questions, you know, I have something to work with. I mean like there's so many things in my head I don't know where to begin.
COUNSELOR: So if I don't probe you it feels like I'm not really here.
PATIENT: Exactly.
COUNSELOR: So maybe there's a feeling that I'm not really with you right now and I'm not really working with you.
PATIENT: You're doing it again.
COUNSELOR: What, what? I'm doing it again? What am I doing?
PATIENT: Well, yes, you're right. I mean I do feel...
COUNSELOR: First tell me what you were laughing about and then tell me...
PATIENT: You're bringing it back to now again, yes.
COUNSELOR: Yes, I am bringing it back to now, yes, because I think you and I are getting to know each other and now is very relevant. And we're different people and we have different backgrounds, and I'm sure you have a lot of questions about whether or not I can really see you and understand you and know what your experience is like, and we haven't really addressed that. But I think that it's probably something that is alive in the room between us. 0:18:28.7
PATIENT: I can't argue with you there, you know.
COUNSELOR: You can't argue, but you don't necessarily agree? Do you have a response?
PATIENT: No, I mean what you say is true. I just don't know... I guess I'm just not comfortable with it. I'm not comfortable with someone - you asking me what does that feel like right now? I'm just not comfortable with it.
COUNSELOR: Tell me why that makes you uncomfortable, because I really need to know.
PATIENT: I don't know. I don't know. I really don't know why. I just don't feel comfortable. I get very... I feel like... No, I just feel... It sounds stupid, that's what. It sounds like... It sounds too analytical for me, like too psych... It's like the typical, you know, psychoanalysis that you see in the movies: You know, "Well, what does that feel like," you know? "I hear what you're saying." I mean just really irks me, you know, because I don't want that kind of therapy. 0:20:10.2 
Because I don't know, it's like people always make fun of therapy, and that's the reason why people make fun of therapy, because that's portrayed in the movies and in television and, you know... I mean a therapist supposedly sitting there is supposed to be helping and all they're doing is repeating after what you say or letting you know that they're here for you or that they hear you or re-asking the question of, you know, "Well, how does that feel, how does that make you feel," and just really irks the shit out of me.
COUNSELOR: It sounds like it does.
PATIENT: Yeah, it does, because I don't think that's what therapy is all about. I mean I'm not saying that's all that's going on right now.
COUNSELOR: But I think what you're saying is the things that need to be addressed are not being addressed and you're not able to get to them and you need my help in getting to them.
PATIENT: Yes. I mean I want... I guess what I'm looking for from you is - I don't know if I'm using the right word, but I need some sort of a starter, you know, something to ignite...
COUNSELOR: What, a starter?
PATIENT: Yeah, you know, a starting with a question that may... I mean from what I've talked about you may have an idea as to what my feelings are on certain things, you know. If there's a question then I can pick it up from there and just... I can go on probably for the rest of the session, you know.
COUNSELOR: Well, one question I do have. This may frustrate you and you may not like this question, but one question I do have is what's making it so difficult for you to talk about the things that you want to talk about?
PATIENT: I think it's like when there's so much in my... There's so much in my head that I don't know where to start. I have the same problem with Paul, you know. We'll get into an argument and then he'll say, "Well, give me an example." For the life of me, I can't come up with an example, you know. But when we're not fighting and when I'm calm and I'm just thinking I can come up with a million examples, you know, of what may be bothering me or what may have gotten me started. But when I'm put on that spot it's like taking a test, you know. I suck at taking tests. 0:22:40.2
COUNSELOR: So maybe part of the anger is that I'm putting you on the spot and saying perform and think of something and choose out of this whole sort of - all these different areas that you're trying to grapple with and I'm sort of asking you to choose one.
PATIENT: I don't know. I don't feel like I'm being put on the spot. I just don't... Like I said, just that phrase of "Tell me how you're feeling," it just sets off something in me that makes me feel very tense. And like it's the same reaction... When I'm really angry at somebody I have a tendency to shut up, and I could almost feel my body becoming tense and rigid. It's like a same reaction, you know. When I say something really bothers me, you know, or really pisses me off I have exact same reaction. It's like it is so transparent, too, you know. It's like everybody knows I'm angry when I'm angry. I don't know how to hide that, you know. 0:24:18.6
COUNSELOR: See, I think... I mean I'm hearing what you're saying, that you really don't like the question that I ask often, which is "How are you feeling." I hear you really don't like that. What's less clear to me is why it is so repugnant and awful to you; that's less clear. 
PATIENT: I'm not clear as to why either. I just - that is a reaction.
COUNSELOR: I know on one level you say it sounds like sort of Therapy 101 and this is why people make fun of therapists, but I think that there's something else and I'm not fully sure what it is. You know, I think that... I mean it's a kind of probing in a way that you don't really like, and I'm going to leave that as a sort of open question for now, because I think that it is more complicated than it seems, but I can't say any more about it than that.
PATIENT: I don't know. I mean just like a lot of - I react to a lot of things, and what I do know is that I do react to it. What I don't know is why I react to it, you know. I mean I would love to find out. You know, not just for this, but generally, you know. Why do I react so strongly on something that most people don't think twice about, and the reactions that I feel are often - you know, it doesn't feel good. I don't feel good that I feel that way. I don't know. I don't know what to do. I don't know why. 0:26:11.5
COUNSELOR: Well, it would be useful to explore, because it does seem to be very powerful, your response to it. You know, it would be useful to explore. I mean when I ask you why you're feeling, it's not always an idle question. Sometimes I'm doing it because I have a sense that you're cutting off from your experience when you're talking about something, so that's my way of kind of rooting you in the moment and helping you become aware of what you're feeling at that particular moment. See what I'm saying?
PATIENT: Um-hmm.
COUNSELOR: Is that clear?
PATIENT: Yeah, I understand what you're saying.
COUNSELOR: So I mean I'm aware of you telling me stories about what's happened on the subway. They may be significant, they may not be significant. But when I sort of ask you like how are you feeling right now it is my sense that you're trailing off, and that's really significant, the fact that you're trailing off from an experience.
PATIENT: I don't know. I mean I may be, but I do that because I don't feel that there's anything else to go with.
COUNSELOR: From me.
PATIENT: No, from me. Just like I said how I felt and why I felt, you know. There's usually something that triggers me to react, an action or someone saying something or whatever it may be. There's usually something that triggers me to feel that way, and then I react and then I feel that's really... I mean what else can I do from there, you know? I mean sort of like that's the reason why I don't continue on. Once I stated I feel this way...
COUNSELOR: Then it's hard to go further with it.
PATIENT: Then I don't know what else to say, you know? I mean...
COUNSELOR: So maybe that's when it gets irritating. 0:28:09.4
PATIENT: Yes. Well, it is just it is irritating when I feel that I completed my whole chain of thought...
COUNSELOR: And then I ask you for more.
PATIENT: Yeah, you know. So maybe I'm not...
COUNSELOR: Who is this person asking for more when I told her everything there is to tell her.
PATIENT: No, I think I know what you're trying to do. I mean you are trying to probe into as to why I may have felt that way. But that's the reason why I'm coming to see you is to find out why, you know, is to find out why I do react to the things I do, and talking about that one incident continuously will not bring about my behavior pattern.
COUNSELOR: Well, I would just say one slight correction. My work here is not so much about why, but also how, how it is that you respond the way you respond or what that is about. Okay, there is a difference, because how you respond is also related to the difficulties you might be experiencing.
PATIENT: All right, how I respond is linked to why I respond.
COUNSELOR: Umm.
PATIENT: Right?
COUNSELOR: Umm.
PATIENT: I mean unless we're doing just total therapy on behavior patterns, you know... I mean if we're going to talk about how I'm responding then we have to talk about what we need to do to not feel that way if that feeling is negative, but we're not doing that either, you know. I mean I really don't care what it is, what the process is as long as the result is that if I feel negative towards my Behavior A, I want to change that behavior, whether it's by behavior therapy, whether it's by probing my past, whether it is by understanding why I continue to make the same whatever it is... 0:30:14.0
COUNSELOR: So when you say Behavior A, be more concrete. What do you mean?
PATIENT: Well, for example, why do I react negatively to when you say, "Tell me more about it" or "How are you feeling," you know? Why do I react that strongly? I mean I could very easily say, "Well, that's it, there's nothing else to go on."
COUNSELOR: Well, what's your assess? Do you have an idea?
PATIENT: I don't know. I'm totally at loss. I mean most of the stuff, I basically know why I do the things I do, but there are certain things, such as that my reaction towards... I mean the only thing I can think of is that I react so strongly to my surroundings because I always feel like I am the - what is that sign, the Libra sign? The scale, the just...
COUNSELOR: Scales?
PATIENT: Yes. I mean that's the only explanation that I've always been able to come up with for myself when I feel...
COUNSELOR: I understand.
PATIENT: Well, when I see... I mean it doesn't relate to you, you know. It doesn't relate to what we were talking about in your questions. A lot of my negative reaction towards what is going on around me is because I feel that what is going on is unjust, you know, and I may react negatively because maybe I feel that I am just, you know?
COUNSELOR: Well, we don't have too much more time today, but I think we got a little less tracked away from sort of what we were talking about. 0:32:24.7
PATIENT: Yeah, I feel exhausted, you know.
COUNSELOR: I'm wondering, though, if it's... We didn't really continue to talk about your mother, and you said you felt really sort of let down after last session. And I think it might be really useful to look at sort of what happened when you started to talk about your mother, what made you feel that let down really, because we didn't explore that and I think that would be helpful. Something about that session we triggered something. Do you have any idea?
PATIENT: I think I may be - not afraid but ashamed to talk negatively about her, because people around her see her as this God's gift to parents, you know, having brought in these kids from another country and she has all these marvelous things. 
And so when people talk that way about her or think that way about her... Like all my friends when I was in high school, you know, a few friends that used to come over to my house, they loved her, you know, because she was cool. She hung out with them, she talked to them, and she was like their buddy and she was the parent that they didn't have. I mean their parents didn't understand them, but my mom understood them. So I don't feel that way, you know? I mean I just don't... 0:34:28.6
COUNSELOR: What about the shame that you felt last time? That seems important. So it's not easy to talk about.
PATIENT: I'm not sure if it is shame. I think it is more like guilt, you know? I don't feel ashamed. There's a few things I do feel are ashamed, but I don't think that's one of them. I think it is more of a guilt, because I know that you shouldn't talk badly about your parents.
COUNSELOR: Okay, so you said to me some things about your mother that you felt guilty about.
PATIENT: No, that's what I was thinking probably. I wasn't able to talk about it. You know, I mean there are a lot of negative feelings that I bottle up inside. Even when I see her, our relationship is like this pretense, you know, of how it is supposed to be a mother-daughter, not really the way I feel at all, you know. I mean I want to confront her head-on. I want to bring up all the years that I felt horrible growing up and I want to ask her why, why was I treated like that. I have a splint in my eye; it's really bothering me. you know, but instead we get together around holidays. You know, everything is rosy and we're cooking together or we're talking about other kids and their problems and her studies and my job and, you know, it's so superficial, you know, that... 0:36:15.4
COUNSELOR: So I think that's also what you're saying about here, it feels superficial, and I'm wondering if it is linked to the fact that you really didn't get to say the things that you needed to say about your mother, things that you really wanted to say but are difficult to say.
PATIENT: I don't know. Maybe, you know, maybe. All I know is that I know that is an incomplete chapter in my life, you know, that I do want to complete eventually. I'm just not really sure how to go about it. If you sit there and say, "Well, tell me about it," I mean I wouldn't know where to begin, you know. Do I start from the time I came to this country, you know? 
So that's where I have a difficult time in some of these sessions, because I don't know where I'm supposed to start. I mean I don't know what you would consider relevant, of what information do you need to know for you to assess an idea of about my relationship with my mother for you to say, okay, well, maybe this is what has occurred and... You know? I mean like I'm used to starting from the very beginning. I won't start at the womb, but I don't know. I think just difference in style, you know.
COUNSELOR: You'd like to start from the beginning.
PATIENT: I'd like to start from the beginning, you know.
COUNSELOR: Well, we have to stop for today, but maybe we can start from the beginning next time.
PATIENT: Um-hmm, okay. 0:38:10.5 
END TRANSCRIPT
