



[p. <i>187</i>]
<font size="5"><b>First Person Account: Susan's Cello</b></font>

<b><i>by Marie-France Demers</i></b>


<b>The article that follows is part of the <i>Schizophrenia
Bulletin</i>'s ongoing <i>First Person Account</i> series. We
hope that mental health professionals—the <i>Bulletin</i>'s
primary audience—will take this opportunity to learn
about the issues and difficulties confronted by consumers
of mental health care. In addition, we hope
that these accounts will give patients and families a
better sense of not being alone in confronting the problems
that can be anticipated by persons with serious
emotional difficulties. We welcome other contributions
from patients, ex-patients, or family members. Our
major editorial requirement is that such contributions
be clearly written and organized, and that a novel or
unique aspect of schizophrenia be described, with special
emphasis on points that will be important for professionals.
Clinicians who see articulate patients with
experiences they believe should be shared might
encourage these patients to submit their articles to
<i>Schizophrenia Bulletin</i>, First Person Accounts, EEI
Communications, 66 Canal Center Plaza, Suite 200,
Alexandria, VA 22314.—<i>The Editors</i>.</b>


I used to play a lot of music. I played piano beginning at
age 5. I eventually taught it to pay for college and university.
I never really wanted to become a professional musician,
even if I admired talented people who make music
for a living. I decided to become a pharmacist. Through
music, I met extraordinary people with exceptional talent.
I will always consider music a gift and treasure the chance
I had to learn it and to be able to share its magic by playing
with others. Susan is one of these others. In fact, she
is the one. We used to go to high school together. I played
piano. She played cello. She is a true artist. She has this
extra thing that makes you feel you are with someone
with a special gift, someone who will become famous and
have a great career. I felt lucky to play with her. I always
will. She was so strong, so affirmative, so able. Every single
day, she went to school, then went to the conservatory
for her music lessons and practiced overnight to perform
her best. She was very disciplined, very demanding of
herself and of others, like me, who played with her. She
was beautiful and healthy, with a natural blush on her
cheeks and large blue eyes, making her look like a pretty
doll. She was cherished by all of us. In fact, I think that
lots of us admired her. She had it all. In 1985, our last
year of high school, we were preparing for our annual
school concert of chamber music. We were putting a lot of
efforts in accompanying singers and several musical
instrument's players. Susan was the leader, the most talented
among us. That night, she played a Concerto of
Saint Saëns with rare emotion and virtuosity. The audience
was captive under her charm. At the end of this concert,
she received an award for her accomplishment at
school and was ready to start a musical career. She also
received a grant from the conservatory to go to Europe to
study cello with a well-known musician in Strasbourg. I
left school that year with the strong conviction that
I would hear from Susan in the next few years, and I
admired the courage she had to choose the road of music.


Fifteen years later, I work as a pharmacist in an outpatient
psychiatric clinic. People attending our clinic are
first episode psychotic patients. Our team has put in place
a multidisciplinary program to help patients, with the
hope that early intervention will make a difference.


At first, I couldn't believe it was she. She was so devastated.
She had just left the hospital. She was hospitalized
without her consent because she had threatened a
dishwasher repairman with a knife, convinced he had
come to her mother's house to hurt her. Her beautiful hair
was a mess. She had pulled out a tuft of hair, leaving a big
spot on the bottom of her scalp. She had several cutaneous
lesions she had inflicted to herself on her face and
arms. She had acne and hirsutism and had gained weight.
She was frankly psychotic, with grandiose preoccupations,
talking about NASA, about other worlds. She had
absolutely no insight into her condition and was convinced
she was in the middle of a plot. She nevertheless
recognized me easily. She even helped me to deal with
this strange and painful situation by not letting me ask her

[p. <i>188</i>]

Susan had her first symptoms in Strasbourg, where
she was hospitalized and given haloperidol. This experience
was very stressful for her; she went through a painful
dystonic reaction that finally led her to leave the hospital
without consent. She managed to come back to her
mother's house. She was hospitalized twice and then disappeared.
From what we learned after, she left for another
city and lived as an itinerant for 1 year, untreated, alone,
unable to get even social assistance. Her living conditions
were extremely harsh. Finally, her mother got her back
home and managed to bring her to our clinic for a first
evaluation, pretending it was not a psychiatric clinic
because Susan would have refused to come. Then she had
to be hospitalized without her consent when the repairman
incident happened.


At first, she was treated with risperidone. She
responded very well in terms of positive symptoms reduction.
She rapidly became free of any hallucinations or
aggressive behavior. However, she still had no insight and
had persistent negative symptoms, particularly sadness,
avolition, and lack of interest. Anxiety was also present.
An antidepressant was added and helped her mood. She
reported amenorrhea. Her mother also noted light galactorrhea.
A pregnancy test was performed and proved negative.
Marked weight gain was also present. The risperidone
dosage was reduced, and laboratory tests were
performed. Considering all these side effects, it was
decided to stop risperidone and start olanzapine.


It has now been 3 months since this new treatment
was begun. Susan remains fragile, with no insight,
marked apathy, and a tremendous need to be taken care
of. Her menses have returned, and galactorrhea is no
longer present. The recent neurocognitive assessment
reveals an average intellectual capacity, inferior to what
would be expected of someone with her education level.
Deficits of executive functioning, particularly in planning
tasks and elaboration of complex strategies, are observed.


Susan still lives with her mother. She does not play the
cello anymore and is very anxious about her future. Every
time I see her, it hurts. I cannot accept what the illness has
done to her. Life is now so hard on her. I can see the harsh
and devastating impact of a severe psychiatric illness left
untreated for too long, with undeniable sequelae.


As a professional, this experience gave me a new
understanding of patient and family grief about the loss of
a hoped-for successful life. Learning to deal with a new
life perspective is a painful aspect of the illness and one
important step of the remission process. Obviously, I also
learned that I cannot be a health care professional and a
good friend at the same time. My clinical judgment is
biased. It had been decided early on that I would not be
professionally involved in Susan's case. But this experience
has changed my practice. Recently, I went to a meeting
of families where, as a pharmacist, I shared some
notions on medication and on side effects. I felt more
touched by the questions, the fears, the anxiety of these
people than I ever had before. I felt their hope and their
fear, and I shared their outrage at not being able to cure
this disease.


As a friend, I learned that, as life goes on, challenges
you would not have expected come along. It brings you
back to simple things: family, love, health. I still grieve
and hope optimal treatment can offer Susan a new freedom
to be herself again, a new self different from what I
knew, but hopefully still inhabited by this unique flame
that is her essence. I hope to play music again with Susan
one day. I hope this day is not so far off. Most of all, I
hope she and I will regain the joy of sharing simple
things, simple thoughts, simple notes.


<b>Epilogue</b>


More than 2 years have passed since this paper was first
written.


In July 2001, Susan committed suicide. That night,
she amazed everybody with her joy and serenity, playing
music and singing at a family reunion, something she had
not done for a long time.


I have to admit the pharmacological treatments did
not reach her level of expectation: Susan never really had
a full remission and experienced unacceptable side
effects all along. Because of her apparent lack of insight,
it was sometimes thought that her suffering was limited
and that she was, consequently, protected from the crude
reality of her life. I never really believed that and, in a
way, I am not surprised by her decision, even though it is
hurtful.


Her fight has touched us profoundly. Her quest contributed
greatly to further push our goals in research. Our
team is about to start an important research project on
metabolic and endocrinologic side effects induced by
atypical antipsychotics and Susan was our initial inspiration.
She is constantly a part of my motivation as a clinician,
as a researcher, and as a woman who cherishes a
unique friendship. I will forever treasure her talent, her
courage, and her willingness.

[p. <i>189</i>]

<b>The Author</b>


Marie-France Demers is a clinical pharmacist working at
the Clinique Notre-Dame des Victoires from le Centre
Hospitalier Robert-Giffard, an outpatient psychiatric
clinic specializing in first psychotic episodes, in Québec.

