



[p. <i>547</i>]
<font size="5"><b>First Person Account: Behind the Mask: A Functional Schizophrenic Copes</b></font>

Anonymous


<b>The article that follows is part of
the <i>Schizophrenia Bulletin's</i> ongoing
<i>First Person Accounts</i> series. We
hope that mental health professionals—the
<i>Bulletin's</i> primary audience—will
take this opportunity to learn
about the issues and difficulties
confronted by consumers of mental
health care. In addition, we hope
that these accounts will give patients
and families a better sense of not
being alone in confronting the
problems that can be anticipated by
persons with serious emotional difficulties.
We welcome other contributions
from patients, ex-patients,
or family members. Our major
editorial requirement is that such
contributions be clearly written and
organized, and that a novel or
unique aspect of schizophrenia be
described, with special emphasis
on points that will be important for
professionals. Clinicians who see
articulate patients, with experiences
they believe should be shared,
might encourage these patients to
submit their articles to <i>First Person
Accounts</i>, Division of Clinical
Research, NIMH, 5600 Fishers
Lane, Rm. 10C-16, Rockville, MD
20857.—<i>The Editors</i>.</b>


A little knowledge, people say, is a
dangerous thing. My problems first
started when I decided to go back to
college at the age of 27. My education
and exposure to different lifestyles
led to discontent with my life and
especially my marriage. After taking
a psychology course, I recognized
signs of stress in myself and went
for help to a school psychologist.
He advised me to take some weeks
away from home and consider a
divorce. However, at the end of that
time, I was convinced that I could
not support myself alone and
resigning myself to what seemed a
problematic marriage; I came home
in despair. It was on this ride home
that I first heard messages over the
car radio that I was sure were meant
for me. I thought my old boyfriend
was sending the messages.


That summer I had a very
negative perception of my husband.
In reflecting back on it, I realize that
this did not have much basis in
reality. There were quite a number
of times that he tried positively to
mend the relationship, but I didn't
recognize it then. I attributed it to
my state of mind. I began to relate
incidents that were totally unrelated.
A friend of mine talked about my
neighbor suing a large company. A
week later, the neighbor's daughter,
who taught a summer class at college,
defended the neighbor's right
to sue. I thought it more than coincidence.
I felt these two were part of
a group of people who were probing
my reactions in the process of
gathering information about me. I
felt that the world was beginning to
revolve around me.


In the fall, I threw myself into
schoolwerk to drown out the
unhappiness. I was taking 16
credits, working full time in my
business which was a day-care
center, and taking care of my
children in the absence of their
father. He was working out of town
and came home on weekends. This
load was to cause a major breakdown,
though no one noticed
my illness, including myself,
for 9 months.


During that school term, certain
remarks made by my professors led
me to the conclusion that they were
all working to rescue me from what
they thought was an abusive marriage.
And I, contrarily, was convinced
that I wanted to stay married.
I realized that I loved my husband
and needed his love in return.

[p. <i>548</i>]

I was convinced that this professor
and I had a private means of communication
and, because of this,
interpreted most of what he said
in class as personally relating to
me. Sometimes the things I heard
in class were bizarre and had no
relation to the class purpose. One
time the professor asked the room at
large, "So your husband used to be
a minister?" I had not divulged that
information to him, but because I
had recently told my babysitter that,
I felt the incident was more than
coincidence. I felt that there was a
large network of people finding out
about me, watching me on the street
for some unknown reason. This feeling
of lack of privacy soon grew into
thinking my house was bugged, a
fear I would have off and on for the
next 8 years. The bizarre and illogical
statements I heard people make were
later dismissed as auditory hallucinations.
They seemed very real to
me, however.


On one occasion, I saw a personal
experience of mine written on the
blackboard in French and English. I
had dropped a history class because
I had gone to a party instead of to a
required class and so missed an important
test I could not make up. All
this was written on the board. I did
not recognize it as a hallucination at
that time. These things caused me
considerable anguish, but I continued
to act as normal as I could for
fear that any bizarre behavior would
cause me to lose my job. I did not
talk about these things, so the only
noticeable signs of my illness were
that I became silent and withdrawn,
not my usual ebullient and smiling
self. I did not think I was sick, but
that these things were being done
to me. I was still able to function,
though I remember getting lunch
ready very slowly as if working
in molasses, each move an effort.
However, my ability to study and
write were not unpaired because
I got A's and B's for that semester.


By Christmas I heard an actor call
me a liar over the T.V., and I felt
sure the media also knew about
me. I was displaying considerable
insecurity and fear, which caused
my husband to quit his job and
come home to look after me. However,
my job became even more
important to me then, and I continued
to work though I quit college
for a time. I continued to have recurring
cycles of delusion and normality.
I felt the language teacher was
still conveying messages to me
through the radio and would spend
hours tuned to it. I found messages
from my husband in the way things
were arranged on the dresser or on
the bookshelf. When I went to the
store, I bought things that symbolically
meant something else to me;
each fruit, flavor, or color had a
meaning that tied in with my delusion.
For example, I would not buy
Trix cereal, because it was associated
with prostitution in my mind, but I
bought a lot of Cheerios to make my
day happier. The world of delusion
soon became a world of imagined
depravities that were a torment to
my moralistic mind. I felt I was
the only sane person in the world
gone crazy.


Finally, my sleeplessness and
delusions led to an inability to function
at all. That spring I was supposed
to go on a trip. I drove aimlessly
around town, afraid to leave,
calling my husband frantically and
speaking of the fears that bound me.
I was hospitalized for 7 days after a
checkup by my doctor, and I was
referred to a psychiatrist.


Though the Navane he prescribed
did help me function again, and I
regained my trust in people and my
smile, the delusions were always in
the background. My husband and
children wrapped me in arms of
love and acceptance, taking on
household duties so I would not be
stressed. I continued to hold down
my job, after a short rest, but still
lived in two worlds. The psychiatrist
never asked me about my delusional
world, so I never talked about it.
Actually, the psychiatrist did not tell
me the extent of my illness, only
saying that I had a chemical imbalance
for which I needed pills. While
this gave me the confidence to
resume my job and normal living, it
also allowed me to believe my delusional
world was real. When I finally
did some research on my own
about the chemical dopamine, he
told me I was schizophreniform.
After my second acute episode 2
years later, he told me this illness
was for life. At this time I joined a
very nurturing civic theater drama
group. This increased my confidence
and memory skills preparatory to
going back to college. In the last 3
years, I have returned to college part
time while working, and have been
successful.


The world of delusion and symbols
is as real to me as the normal
world. When coincidences happen
or people speak in a strange way, I
am very likely to take what they say
as applying to my delusional world
even though I do not usually act on
those delusions. Most of the time I

[p. <i>549</i>]

Several years ago, I had visual
images of gross, sexual, or obscene
images floated in front of my eyes
when I least expected them. This
mortified me, especially as I thought
others could see these images of
mine. The experiences really
unnerved me until my therapist
gave me Theodore Rubin's <i>Compassion
and Self-Hate</i> (1975) to read. I
learned to like myself and accept
myself in spite of the ugly tricks
my mind plays. Now I do not claim
these images—I laugh at them and
they go away. They haven't bothered
me much since then.


This winter, I was acutely sick
for the third time with 7 sleepless
nights. I continued to work even
though I was convinced that my
work was part of an extrasensory
perception (ESP) project designed
to make me a teacher of ESP. All
the remarks the children and other
teachers made were integrated into
and reinforced by my delusion.
However, I continued to behave in
a very conservative and rational
manner, purposely avoiding
behavior that might brand me as different.
The abundance of sensory
input during this time made the
delusions run wild and added to the
cumulative effect of the delusions. I
wonder now if I wouldn't have been
better off to have taken time off from
work and waited until the added
medication took effect. Perhaps, I
could have avoided the sensory input
which seemed to have intensified
the construction of delusions.


Now, 3 months later, I am free
from the delusions for the first time
in many years. I find I am able to
fight the delusional thinking better
by discussing it with people. It also
helps me to hear other patients in
my Emotions Anonymous (E.A.)
group talk about their delusions,
because then I realize that I am sick
and not the victim of some plot. My
illness has caused me to grow in my
inner self to discover who I really
am with the help of my therapist.
There are many unsung heroes and
heroines behind the scenes in this
saga of mine. I have not been in this
battle alone. My family and relatives
have offered financial and emotional
support throughout my illness. I
have a widespread circle of nurturing
friends in church, E.A., the civic
theater, work, and college. The
acceptance I have found gives me
courage and fulfills my life in a way
no fantasy can. When my delusions
threaten to turn to paranoia, I
remember my friends and dare
to trust, to reach out, and to be
vulnerable.


<b>Reference</b>


Rubin, T.l. <i>Compassion and Self-Hate:
An Alternative to Despair</i>. New York:
David McKay Co., Inc., 1975.

