TRANSCRIPT OF AUDIO FILE:
______________________________________________________________________________
BEGIN TRANSCRIPT:
THERAPIST: I think its working. How was the ski trip?
CLIENT: It was good actually.
THERAPIST: So you went?
CLIENT: Yes, and I had no trouble. Like I was shocked and I don't even know what I did. I kind of wrote down a few things like - I know you had asked me to write down about the mindfulness breathing or whatever and I kind of just wrote down like a few different situations of what I guess went on...
THERAPIST: Great.
CLIENT: ...so I could remember. But I don't know, I felt like I wasn't really nervous but I don't know if it was because I woke up late that day...
THERAPIST: (COUGHING)
CLIENT: ...and I wasn't expecting that.
THERAPIST: (COUGHING). I'm sorry. What do you mean you woke up late?
CLIENT: Well I had been waking up early every morning and I didn't set my alarm because I figured we weren't leaving until - I didn't have to be at her house until twelve.
So I wake up at like eleven and I started freaking out because I had a few more things to pack. So I was so busy and then I got there and I was fine. Like I didn't - I don't know, sometimes when I'm really busy I don't have time to sit back and think...
THERAPIST: And be nervous. But was it leading up to? Because even when I have seen you here you were pretty nervous and uncomfortable and you were thinking, I'm probably not going to go.
CLIENT: I was very...
THERAPIST: Or I'm trying to find ways to get out of going.
CLIENT: Yeah, because I was very - I was anticipating...
THERAPIST: I'm going to be gross and blow my nose while I talk to you. [0:01:22.0]
CLIENT: That's fine. I was anticipating - but I don't know, I guess...
THERAPIST: So was the whole week like the same level of anxiety that you had when you were here?
CLIENT: No, I guess because I was with my family and this is the first - I guess usually only around Christmas is all five of us actually home.
So we were all home, especially since my older brother doesn't have a job right now, he was home and my other brother still lives there.
And I don't know, I guess it was very relaxing. It was kind of an actually really nice to be around the family. And then I was hanging out with those friends that I was going away with.
So I don't know if that helped because I don't really see them. I know they're my like closest friends but I don't really see them as often during the year.
So I don't know, it...
THERAPIST: So it was a nice time. But also when - I mean while it was relaxing it wasn't like super busy was it?
CLIENT: No, it was - no, like what do you mean like the break or the...
THERAPIST: While you were home.
CLIENT: No, there wasn't really much that I had to do.
THERAPIST: So there certainly was plenty of time for you to ruminate about the trip?
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: So I think you're not giving yourself for the credit here.
CLIENT: I guess (inaudible at 0:02:36.4)
THERAPIST: So I'm...
(CROSSTALK)
THERAPIST: So I would suggest that maybe you were doing something. Because were you thinking about the ski trip?
CLIENT: I guess yeah. I was - actually I prepared for it like the week before I guess. I'm trying to think, like I guess right after Christmas because I didn't have any ski stuff.
So I was asking my bother; he was letting me borrow stuff and I don't know if I was getting myself excited because I even asked one my friends who was going and I was like, do you have extra snow pants or something.
And she was like, why are you getting ready now, it's like a week ahead of time. I haven't even thought about stuff.
So I don't know if I got myself like...[0:03:17.0]
THERAPIST: You got excited about it and it turned into something positive instead of something negative in your head.
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: So instead of just thinking about all the things that could go wrong, you were thinking about the enjoyable part.
CLIENT: Yeah, I was I guess worried that I was going to be around her family and didn't know what to expect. Her immediate family yes, but then like her aunts - it was her aunt's house and then her two older cousins.
And one's married and has a baby and like her husband was there. So I feel like the other people I was going with were more talkative. So a lot of times I feel like I don't want to be the odd one out.
THERAPIST: But going up - I'm more worried I guess not about how you dealt with it once you were there because you have a history of being fine once you're there.
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: That's generally your pattern, right?
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: So you must have been telling yourself some rational things to stop worrying or was it just that you were saying only positive things about the events?
CLIENT: I was try, I don't know - I was just trying to like relax. And I know - I don't know, I feel leading up to it I got excited for it somewhat and then it - I guess I've been annoyed with my roommate kind of so I was like I guess I'm going away with no cell phone service.
So that was something positive.
THERAPIST: So maybe that - and this is something that we can use to our - your advantage for the next time and anxiety-provoking situation comes up, which is maybe that not only is it just thinking about - because we've kind of more identified as you thinking about the event than you thinking about being there.
And then you start thinking all the bad things that could happen withy our health I guess which is basically most of it. I mean there's the - I don't know I'm going to say but that doesn't seem to be as significant as the I'm going to get sick thought. [0:04:57.1}
CLIENT: That's usually what - I feel like if I'm put in that situation where I feel like that then I'll get the stomachache or something.
THERAPIST: Okay.
CLIENT: But also on the ride up there, my - one of my friends was hung over from New Year's Eve, because we left New Year's Day.
THERAPIST: Okay.
CLIENT: And she I guess got a little car sick and we had to pull over and she threw up. And like I know this is weird and what not, but like that kind of made me like comfortable and relaxed even more.
THERAPIST: Put the pressure off you.
CLIENT: It was just like...
(CROSSTALK)
THERAPIST: If you were to then throw up then it wouldn't have been a big deal.
CLIENT: (inaudible at 0:05:30.8) did. Like she got sick and like no one acted -like no one really made a big deal. It was more like, oh, are you okay?
Like we laughed about it and ever after that I was even more like relaxed. Like oh so if I get sick it's fine. She already got sick.
And I know...
(CROSSTALK)
THERAPIST: You need someone to do that all the time, someone to get sick first. You can like slip them something.
CLIENT: But I think it was nice just to see like okay, just there's nothing to worry about.
THERAPIST: And that you handled it really well. I mean I was worried that you were going to say you didn't go at all. [0:06:03.5]
CLIENT: I know. That's what I - even on Christmas and probably the day after, I still was like oh, I don't know. Until I started getting stuff together and getting ready, I don't know if it was kind of like oh, I'm definitely going.
THERAPIST: So what do you think you can take with this to use for future events that provoke anxiety?
CLIENT: Well I think I think too much of the negative. And also I don't just work on whatever is happening right then and there and getting my stuff together.
Like I just think - I don't know, I don't look forward to them - to events instead like, you know, just taking (inaudible at 0:06:40.6}.
THERAPIST: So maybe something that you could do in the future when you are feeling really anxious, because I like in your head you're making mental lists of all the things that can go wrong, right?
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: And then what could go wrong from there and then have that will be a catastrophe, if that goes wrong and all that.
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: Instead of, maybe you could even a physical list of all the things that you're looking forward to that could be fun; that could be exciting.
You could do something proactive for the trip. Like this was your making - you were like making, you know, like getting like your shit together.
Maybe something that you could like even for going out for a night, sometimes that's anxiety provoking. You know, you could make a list of the exciting thing that could happen.
You could start getting an outfit ready, you know. I mean you could plan what you're going to wear. [0:07:24.2]
CLIENT: Yeah. My friends usually make fun of me because I usually do. I'm like if I'm going out tonight I'm sleeping, leave me alone. But instead of sleeping I should probably try - I usually don't sleep because I'm all hyped up and I want to nap.
So instead of doing that I should actually get ready.
THERAPIST: Yeah, so to avoiding the situation which is kind of what napping is probably.
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: Because you don't think about it if you're asleep.
CLIENT: That's pretty much I think why I usually do it.
THERAPIST: So instead of maybe avoiding the situation which is not good for combating anxiety, is to focus on the positive things. I mean I do think focusing on the negative and learning to handle it is one way.
But that - I think it's a little too hard right now, right?
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: So focus on the positive things, to get an outfit together. You could make a mix CD for the ride up, you know. You could make a mix CD getting ready to go out.
You could help plan your friend's outfit. You could, you know...
CLIENT: Yeah, I guess anything to really...
THERAPIST: Get excited and to keep busy. But not keep busy in a distraction sort of way. You know and this way your plan of keeping busy was I think a way that you would be engaged.
CLIENT: And it wasn't like I was busy because I really didn't have anything to do, but I was trying to I guess, you know, focus on getting my stuff together, on going instead of not going. Because I think I always focus on how I'm not going to go.
THERAPIST: How you're going to get out of it and how hard it's going to be to get out of it. And all your friends are going to be mad at you for trying to get out of it.
CLIENT: I think that's what I think every time with any situation is exactly what you just said, instead of thinking all right, I'm going. And then so like if something happens, something happens. [0:08:58.2]
THERAPIST: So know you have a new philosophy; a new way to go about it instead of just avoiding it. And there's the mindfulness if you need it because that's more when things get really bad, right?
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: Or I mean to do it regularly but then also when things get really bad. But now there's the other, you know, bag of tricks that you have which is to think about all the positive things that could happen and to become engaged.
CLIENT: Yeah, because I think I kind of left that behind for a while, like focused on the negative even when I was trying to like get it out of my head. Like it just - I don't know.
THERAPIST: (inaudible at 0:09:33.8). But it sounds like you did really well.
CLIENT: Yeah. I was happy that I like had a lot of fun. Like I really - after that like initial drive up there I didn't really think about my anxiety. I think maybe I did once or twice like when we started drinking or something because sometimes drinking will set off like the feeling in my stomach.
But I didn't like - I don't know, it was just fun. I don't know.
THERAPIST: That's good. So what you guys do when you were up there?
CLIENT: Her aunt is like the craziest hostess ever. Like everything has to be perfect. She made like the most beautiful dinners and what not.
But we went snowboarding and half of them went skiing. And...
THERAPIST: How many people went?
CLIENT: It was my friend who's aunt that was, her family so her mom, dad, her grandma, and then her brother and he brought a friend.
And then my friend who lives in Michigan, Valerie, and then the girl whose birthday it was whose family and what not, she has a friend, a childhood friend who came.
And then the aunt's two children were there and one of her children is married with a baby. And her husband and then...
THERAPIST: So were you hanging out kind of with everybody or just with the kids?
CLIENT: It was everyone. Because they're - her family too is very close. Like I was nervous because last year - was I seeing you last year?
THERAPIST: No. [0:11:00.8]
CLIENT: Okay, here I am like trying to think. Last her on her birthday I had anxiety and I left. And we were celebrating with this aunt and the cousins and the two older cousins and the rest of her aunts on her mom's side.
Because they like to like I guess not party, but they do like to drink and they'll take shots with us and they drink - they can take more shots than I can.
And I was kind of - I was really nervous and I ended up getting anxiety and going home. So I think that was in the back of my mind.
THERAPIST: Yeah - yes.
CLIENT: It was like these are the same people like...
THERAPIST: But it didn't bother you, yeah.
CLIENT: Yeah, it was fine.
THERAPIST: That's great. So how was the skiing? Was it hard? Well did you - where did you (inaudible at 0:11:37.7)?
CLIENT: I decided to snowboard like the second we got to the mountain and I changed my mind. Oh, because her boyfriend - my friend's boyfriend also came. And I've know him forever too so, for as long as I've know her.
So he has never done anything - he's not really a cold weather kind of guy. So he was going to snowboard so I figured okay, I'll be with him. Because I had done it twice but that was like five years ago.
So it wasn't bad and I think I was - the most thing I was nervous about on the trip is when I get on the chair lift. Because me and him cannot get off the chair lift without falling.
And I started getting like a nervous feeling in my stomach every single time and I would just try to like relax. And that was probably the most anxiety I had the whole trip.
THERAPIST: Getting off the chair lift?
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: Probably most people feel that than anything.
CLIENT: Yeah. So it was fun though. Everyone pretty much besides her aunt and her mom was on the slopes.
THERAPIST: Where was this?
CLIENT: Burnsville, Minnesota. I think its south of St. Paul.
THERAPIST: I don't think I've ever been - I mean I've only been skiing once in my life.
CLIENT: I think its Buck Hill is the mountain.
THERAPIST: Was it high?
CLIENT: No, it wasn't - it's not a big skiing resort. But me and her boyfriend stayed on the (inaudible at 0:12:53.7) most of the time.
THERAPIST: You have to pull up by the toe.
CLIENT: They actually had a chair lift.
(CROSSTALK)
The first time we went on the chair lift together we knocked each other down.
(LAUGHING).
So after that we went separate every single time.
THERAPIST: That's great. Well sounds like you had a really good time.
CLIENT: Yeah. I think it made me feel - because I guess I haven't really gotten away with friends in a while or with people other than my family which I'm completely comfortable with my family.
So I was kind of nervous about that too. Like I don't know what to expect but it kind of - I don't know. Now I don't feel like I should avoid any situations like if my friends want to that again or something.
THERAPIST: That's great. And I think that that keeping that momentum going, you know. If you want to take a trip up to Michigan, you know, over the next couple of weeks...
CLIENT: That too. Like things like that I feel like - I feel more comfortable now that I spent time her aunt's.
THERAPIST: So how long have you been back in the apartment then? Just a few days I guess?
CLIENT: Since Monday.
THERAPIST: Okay. And when do your classes start again?
CLIENT: Well I had a winter course so it started on Monday. [0:13:55.4]
THERAPIST: Okay.
CLIENT: So I got back and had to go right to class.
THERAPIST: So you're busy already?
CLIENT: Mm-hmm.
THERAPIST: Okay.
CLIENT: I actually - I went to - I went to a bunch of advisors like the other day to figure out when I'm actually graduating.
THERAPIST: Is it at the end of this semester or...
CLIENT: I'm not - I knew I wasn't graduating in four years this spring. But I only have three more classes for my major after that.
So then I went and I found that I'll be done with my major. I was planning on being done in the summer but now there's no point because I'm going to be done with my major but I still have like 30 credits or maybe a little bit less. Maybe like 25 credit or something.
I'm not going to be done until next spring because I have to take just...
THERAPIST: Core classes?
CLIENT: Yeah. Well I have all my core requirements too so these are going to be - I don't get how it even happened but probably because I guess like a year and a half, three semesters that I really was having a lot of trouble getting to school. I messed up pretty badly. [0:15:01.2]
So now I'm not going to be graduating until next spring. And I guess it's - (inaudible at 0:15:01.1) gives me time but I kind of was freaking out all week.
I'm like okay now, but just because I feel like then I have to figure - well depending on what I want to do, if I want to go to grad school then I have to concentrate on getting my GPA up. Because right now it's so low because of those three semesters.
I have like an F and a D and it's just dragging my GPA down. So I'm afraid that when I actually do get to - like after talking to these people like I'm not going to get into grad school.
THERAPIST: Well you still have about 20 credits left, right?
CLIENT: Oh, I have even more - I have...
THERAPIST: It's such a lot of credits.
CLIENT: I have a lot.
THERAPIST: They're four credit courses.
CLIENT: Three.
THERAPIST: Three? So that's even a lot (inaudible at 0:15:48.8)
CLIENT: I have like a full semester now until next spring.
THERAPIST: And you've been getting - like when you do show up to class you generally get A's and B pluses?
CLIENT: I've been doing good now yeah, those kind of grades. So I mean my Psych courses I got an A plus and A minus.
THERAPIST: Yeah.
CLIENT: But I mean it's still those grades that I can't change and it just...
THERAPIST: It's frustrating. [0:16:10.0]
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: But I mean there're probably only a few of them and you can probably get your GPA up. I think for most, unless you're like applying to like Harvard and Yale for grad schools, I think most require just a 3.0 generally to look at your grades. And then you'll have to worry GREs and things like that as well.
But it depends on the school. Like some schools care a lot more and the interview is more important.
Are you thinking about a grad program - like what you would be interested in?
CLIENT: See, that's what I'm not really sure about. Like I don't know where I want to head after I get my Psychology under grad degree.
So I don't know.
THERAPIST: Wait, I thought you were - you're a Psych under grad?
CLIENT: I just - I switched it last semester.
THERAPIST: I thought - what were you before, you were like...
CLIENT: Math.
THERAPIST: Math, and now you're Psychology?
CLIENT: Yes.
THERAPIST: So are you thinking about Psychology programs?
CLIENT: I just - I don't know exactly what I want to do yet, you know.
THERAPIST: Yeah.
CLIENT: If I want to be like a clinical psychologist or so...
THERAPIST: Yeah I guess - I mean it doesn't make a difference grade wise but there are different programs in Counseling degrees, Social Work degrees probably don't require as high a GPA.
Do you know (inaudible at 0:17:18.9) like since I know you have wanted to work, right. But money, finance are not a huge issues to you? Like your parents are going to support you no matter what, even if you don't have a job.
Have you ever thought about, especially if you are interested in psychology, at least that realm, right? Because you don't know what - there's so many things with it.
CLIENT: Yeah, there's so much so that's why I'm like I guess it's okay to have another year. [0:17:41.1]
THERAPIST: Yeah, there's so many things within it. Have you ever thought about maybe being a volunteer at a like a psych hospital?
CLIENT: I have. I...
THERAPIST: That's kind of intense.
CLIENT: ...actually - I made an appointment with someone in the Career Development Services at Shimer for this Monday actually about some kind of psychology internship program where you get credit and grade and you're placed somewhere I guess in the city.
THERAPIST: That would be great.
CLIENT: Because right now I don't really know of any places myself. So I have this appointment with a woman for like an internship type tomorrow.
THERAPIST: That sounds like a great thing.
CLIENT: It's a volunteer.
THERAPIST: And that will be something that - internships you know, look pretty strong. So having that under grad, not everybody has that, you know.
CLIENT: And I feel like I guess now I have time, like I might as well do a volunteer program until I graduate at least.
THERAPIST: since money isn't a huge - like isn't a huge issue and that's probably - it will be more beneficial than the $4000 you're going to make a semester or something.
CLIENT: I think it will make me feel better too about like instead of doing...
THERAPIST: Doing something.
CLIENT: Well yeah. It will be like a job even though I'm not getting paid it's still...
THERAPIST: Definitely.
CLIENT: ...work, than not doing nothing.
THERAPIST: And also an internship is a good way of knowing if that's the population you want to work with or it's something you don't want to work with.
CLIENT: That's another thing. I want to kind of figure out, you know, if I like - what I like to do and stuff so, I think. Hopefully I have a good meeting on Monday with this woman. I don't know what's she's going to tell me. [0:19:12.3]
THERAPIST: Just so you know I've heard - I guess it could go both ways but I have heard application letters and things like that, a lot of people who have had psychological history - firstly (inaudible at 0:19:23.9) a lot of people in psychology programs have had psychological issues in the past.
So don't take that's what I'm saying. It's like we don't want the crazies. I think like pretty much everyone has like their own issues and you can always tell like when people have specializations like you're always like, oh, that's totally your issues.
Like oh, you're an ager expert.
CLIENT: yeah.
THERAPIST: You know, you're like ADHD. Oh, you have ADHD. I have a sibling or something like that. But I have heard it advice to say that don't write your anxiety disorder in your (LAUGHING).
So a lot of people do that like oh, I've suffered with bulimia for years. So that's why I say I think it is relevant but apparently some people don't like hearing about it.
CLIENT: Okay.
THERAPIST: So that would be mine.
CLIENT: Okay, good.
(LAUGHING)
THERAPIST: That would be my advice. I don't know, I think they just want to avoid having people who just want to figure out themselves in the program.
CLIENT: Yeah, that makes sense.
THERAPIST: But I would say that still everyone has their own personal story that they could have written in the thing. But I heard that advice.
(LAUGHING)
CLIENT: No.
THERAPIST: But I'm sure you're not the first person. I know of people who have, you know, have gone through therapy and got through their own issues who are now, you know, in similar programs. So don't take that as a...
CLIENT: That's fine.
THERAPIST: I think that you're more familiar with the process than anyone. That's great. So that's something that you can do in that and then it sounds like you're taking some initiative.
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: So are you worried that you're going to have anxiety at the internship?
CLIENT: I'm actually excited because I kind of like - the day before I went into see all the advisors this week I was like - I don't know, I was trying to just figure everything out. Because I want to just get a move on with whatever - because I feel like I'm feeling so much better with my anxiety. [0:21:04.9]
And for a while I felt like that was holding me back. So all my friends are graduating and I just - I don't know, I was kind of motivated I guess somewhat.
THERAPIST: Yeah.
CLIENT: But then finding out all about when I'm graduating and what not and my GPA issues and there's really not much I do about that besides keep my grades up now, that kind of like I don't know, got me very upset.
THERAPIST: Well I was more - I was thinking about - I mean I understand back - I was more thinking about you know, when you're applying to jobs like in stores you had a lot of anxiety then. Not for the interview itself but once you started the job that you wouldn't be able to maintain it.
Are you worried about that in the internship and I didn't know if we needed to address that.
CLIENT: I'm actually more excited because it's something I want to do.
THERAPIST: So you don't feel like you're going to feel that social pressure to perform in the same way that you would at like Abercrombie and Fitch?
CLIENT: Yeah, I don't know why like one of those jobs like I guess because I don't really want to be there. I feel like it's easier for me to like allow myself to - I don't know.
THERAPIST: I don't see you potentially would have something in common with the people that you would be working at the internship with.
CLIENT: Like I'm just kind of excited. Like I hope something works out. Like I don't know about next semester yet because I don't know if it's too late with this program. But I could always find another place.
THERAPIST: And now you have plenty of time, right.
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: And there's the summer.
CLIENT: Yeah, and that's what I'm gong to ask her about if she knows anything for the summer.
THERAPIST: I'm trying to think. I know somebody who in one of her first years of grad school - and I don't know if she was allowed because she was a graduate student - but she did just do some volunteer hours at one of the hospitals in one of the psychiatric units,.
But I have to say that those can be very intense and I don't want it to put you off of working.
CLIENT: No, I've heard - yeah, I've heard.
THERAPIST: Because I had a very bad internship. It wasn't a real internship, it was like a volunteer like while I was in under grad.
CLIENT: Oh, okay.
THERAPIST: But you know, they just didn't really give me any supervision so they just like threw me in like the children's unit.
CLIENT: In the city or.
THERAPIST: No it was in Joliet. It was in Silver Cross Hospital.
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: (inaudible at 0:23:19.8) and I was there like seven hours a day straight, you know. And the therapist gets to, you know, go in and out of the units and probably spend most of the time in their office.
So it was just - it's hard. Those children's lives are tough. And adults can be scary in those units as well.
CLIENT: Yeah, I can imagine or I can't imagine.
THERAPIST: But there's more opportunities. So do you mean if being in the hospital is going to be good or it could teach you like you don't want to be an in-patient person like who's more on that end of (LAUGHING).
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: But yeah, it will teach you.
CLIENT: But I feel like that since now I have time, the internships with the school are only like during the semester - each semester. They would place you in a different (inaudible at 0:24:01.9).
THERAPIST: So (inaudible at 0:24:02.8) or...
CLIENT: So I feel like that would give me a chance to do a few of them and get credits while I'm doing it instead of taking...
THERAPIST: And they kind of set you up so it's not as stressful.
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: But I'm saying if that doesn't work out you could still probably ask them to help you find one (inaudible at 0:24:16.7) related too.
CLIENT: Well that's why I want to maybe try and do for this semester...
END TRANSCRIPT
