Transcript of Audio File:
______________________________________________________________________________
BEGIN TRANSCRIPT:
THERAPIST: I'm glad.
CLIENT: Yeah no. It was very stressful. Because I'm flying—on Thursday.
THERAPIST: Right.
CLIENT: And I didn't want — like it was like if this becomes an ear infection we're all going to die.
THERAPIST: I had a question. Which if I don't ask, I'm likely going to forget. So I may have a time opening up before when we meet on Friday and for various reasons was possibly going to offer that to [inaudible] if it opens up.
CLIENT: Mm-hmm.
THERAPIST: But I wanted to check with you just to make sure that the passing of each other in the waiting room at 5:15 or knowing me 5:20 wouldn't be weird. And if it would be I'm happy not to offer that to her and to find something different. But I just wanted to check with you about it. [00:01:10]
CLIENT: Yeah I think — I just want to think on that.
THERAPIST: Sure.
CLIENT: Is it okay if I think on it until like next week? Is that too long?
THERAPIST: That's fine.
CLIENT: Okay.
THERAPIST: And it's really up to you. If it doesn't feel like it would be comfortable that's not your responsibility to decide.
CLIENT: Yeah — well it's weird. The part that — is that I don't mind passing her in like the waiting room at all. My concern is the last time we had a back to back, she's like, "Oh we should go out and get some coffee." And then it turned into her just like dumping all the emotions on me. [00:02:00]
THERAPIST: From here you mean? Or —
CLIENT: Yeah. So yes actually I'd prefer that not to happen. (inaudible at 00:02:11)
THERAPIST: Okay.
CLIENT: Yes (inaudible at 00:02:13).
THERAPIST: Especially since it's on a Friday.
CLIENT: Yeah. Yeah. I think that would likely lead to let's get a drink afterwards. And dumping emotions.
THERAPIST: Okay. All right. Glad I asked.
CLIENT: Thank you.
THERAPIST: Sure.
CLIENT: As it turned out the reason that Ashby climbed into my bed was that she was black out drunk.
THERAPIST: Oh.
CLIENT: Well she didn't actually remember. The next day she's not talking about it. This is so weird.
THERAPIST: Right.
CLIENT: And so I made like one or two jokes about it. And she just looked at me. I was like, "Ashby do you remember climbing into my bed?" [00:02:57]
THERAPIST: Yeah. Yeah.
CLIENT: And she's like, "No." And so she got black out drunk.
THERAPIST: Gotcha.
CLIENT: Which I'm not thrilled with but she too was curious what was the secret thing that she didn't want to tell me but has no idea what it was. So. And I think they're moving their book group to Friday night. And I think starting earlier. Which I hope leads to less black out drinking. In general. The thing about being sick is that I just (sighs) I have such a hard time taking the time off. Like Monday I woke up and I couldn't talk. My throat was just so closed up. I'm like clearly I can't do anything. And I was running a fever. [00:04:04]
The next day I was like, "All right. Back to work." And I felt horrible. I went to work again feeling horrible. And Thursday a co-worker was basically like, "What are you doing here?" Because I was kind of feverish and trying to talk to her about something. And like not being able to concentrate. I was like, "Oh yeah." I went to health services and she's like, "Go home." (chuckles) And she's like, "Well." And I'm like, "I'm flying in a week." And she's like, "Yeah you have to go home and lie down."
THERAPIST: Uh-huh.
CLIENT: I was like, "Oh okay." And I don't know. Like I was really just — I think part of it is I hate it when I get sick in a time when it looks like — I feel like I'm sick. It's not that I'm trying scam a long weekend. [00:05:01]
THERAPIST: Right.
CLIENT: And it's really awkward that I'm taking like three days off right before going on vacation.
THERAPIST: Right.
CLIENT: It's one of my most hated types of being sick. Whenever I'm like, "Oh God. This looks so dodgy."
THERAPIST: Mm-hmm.
CLIENT: And I had a really hard time limiting myself. To just lie down. And stay lied down.
THERAPIST: Mm-hmm.
CLIENT: My friend who lives a couple of doors is packing because she and her husband bought a house. And she needed help. And I was just like, "I can't. I had to cancel plans with other friends." (inaudible at 00:05:47) Well I mean, maybe. And then I would do something like walk across my apartment and go, "Okay. I can't." But it's — I don't know. I think especially the — so by Saturday morning I was feeling kind of okay. [00:06:11]
THERAPIST: Mm-hmm.
CLIENT: But was determined to not promptly make myself sick again by like running around and doing stuff. And I sort of succeeded. But I don't know. I just felt really miserable about it the whole time. And also the other thing — so my landlord decided to redo our kitchen floor on Wednesday.
THERAPIST: Oh.
CLIENT: Yeah. So it was still being redone on Thursday. And also that he wanted me to drag everything out of the kitchen and just dump it in our dining room. Kind of just like very —. [00:06:56]
THERAPIST: Mm-hmm.
CLIENT: And Ashby was just in a really cranky mood all weekend and didn't want to shift things back. And I was like, "I don't want to move things back either. I feel crappy and sick." And so both of us were like this is really annoying that all our utensils and cooking things are in another room.
THERAPIST: I'm sorry. I don't mean to make you feel uncomfortable. You may be like a little unzipped.
CLIENT: Ugh. I just hope you know that wasn't true.
THERAPIST: Okay. Sorry.
CLIENT: No. No. No. It's —
THERAPIST: You know if your shrink can't tell ya — (inaudible at 00:07:35).
CLIENT: No it's good. It's like I had another pair that were just like these.
THERAPIST: Oh okay.
CLIENT: And the zipper started doing that so I threw them out and got a new pair. And today I've just been like, "I really hope it's not doing that stupid zipper thing."
THERAPIST: Oh okay.
CLIENT: And it is.
THERAPIST: (inaudible at 00:07:53)
CLIENT: I appreciate it. So yeah. I don't know. Like I really don't feel ready to travel Thursday morning. At all. And it doesn't feel like I really am. I'm still like, "Let's go in a week or two." [00:08:16]
THERAPIST: Right.
CLIENT: And it's not. It's in a couple of days. And the other thing that's stressing me out is sort of the convoluted cat sitting that's happening. So I'm dropping one cat off to be boarded. And someone else is coming in to take care of the other cat. My older cat. And my older cat has decided that she'd rather (inaudible at 00:08:49) than really eat her food.
THERAPIST: Mm-hmm.
CLIENT: Which she's been doing for awhile. It makes me very stressed. And for like three days she basically wouldn't eat. But she's like, I don't want wet food. It's boring. I want to eat dry food. I'm like, "But you can't. You don't have teeth really." [00:09:06]
So she can't really chew it and she throws up. So it kind of led to at like 2 a.m. me being really stressed out looking at the Internet for ways to feed elderly cats. And I just feel like — I'm starting a list of everything for her. I'm just kind of like, "Yeah so. She sleeps in my bed and pees on it. So you have to change like puppy pads everyday. And sometimes if you don't clean the litter box everyday she will poop somewhere. And you have to smush up her food with a lot of water."
And I'm just like, "Ugh." Like writing down I'm like, "Wow." Like I'm fine with coddling her. It's just when I write it down and ask someone else to that I feel a little (sighs) — not exactly ludicrous. But I feel a little guilty asking someone else to engage in all this hullabaloo. Like I'm paying him so it's not like he's doing this for free. [00:10:23]
THERAPIST: Mm-hmm.
CLIENT: But so like, "Yes can you come over for like an hour and coddle my cat for awhile?" "Okay. Thanks." It just feels kind of — I don't know. Like I feel like crazy. Like some pet owners get really, really insane. And like, "Well you know, my cat has to be fed exactly the schedule. And (inaudible at 00:10:59) radio during the day. I'm like, "She's a cat."
THERAPIST: I see you feel like way over uptight over it like a parent kind of? [00:11:08]
CLIENT: I do. Except I'm like I don't — yeah in a sense the crazy parent with like the long list of all the kid's — "She doesn't like this. And she likes (inaudible at 00:11:21) because it comes off." I'm like, "Ugh."
THERAPIST: Right. Right. If you make her sandwich cut the crust and cut it into hexagons.
CLIENT: Exactly. Especially since I had to go out and buy like a whole bunch of mini cans of cat food because she's not eating out of the big cans.
THERAPIST: I see.
CLIENT: I'm just like, (inaudible at 00:11:38) cat. And also one of the things it suggests is if your cat is just not really eating a lot is to just basically spoon feed your cat. Like you just hold a spoonful of cat food up.
THERAPIST: Right.
CLIENT: To their face. Which works. As I've discovered. Sometimes.
THERAPIST: (inaudible at 00:12:01) like an airplane noise?
CLIENT: No. You can't force feed but you just kind of hold it in front of their face. So yeah my cat is a small child. [00:12:11]
THERAPIST: (chuckles)
CLIENT: She's like, "Yes thank you. I would enjoy another spoonful of cat food." Oh God. But I mean the other thing is that I do feel like I really love her. I don't want to keep her alive if she's uncomfortable. And having a hard time eating is sort of part of where I get a little nervous. Because I'm not going to force feed her. Because that's horrifying.
THERAPIST: Mm-hmm.
CLIENT: But she generally seems fine. She meows around. She does her thing. But I just hate leaving when she's in a state of, "I'm being cranky about food." I feel like I have to come up with all the possibilities for her crazy cat needs. And things that my friend could do. And the other thing is — so Christian is disabled. He uses crutches. Like the cuff crutches. And I'm sort of conscious of — right now most of the kitchen is still in the dining room. And it's kind of crazy. [00:13:34]
And I'm just like, "Okay so I really hope that this isn't going to kill you. Like you'll be able to walk through this without falling." And also I just feel like, "Oh God. This is not how my apartment normally is." And I've just got myself really wound up over the weekend. Over feeling like — because I mean it's stuff like my landlord doing stuff to the floor. The cats are locked up in separate rooms. And I asked him to open the bedroom doors and he said, "No." But he did end up opening my bedroom door. (inaudible at 00:14:12) is like, "Hey, I'm loose."
And it was a particularly messy point and it got very — I'm still super self-conscious about, "Was he going to say anything?" Which would be really bold since he's a complete (inaudible at 00:14:35). But that made me anxious. And then also the idea — well it needs to be kind of more tidy than usual because I'm worried about someone tripping. Like I can walk through my bedroom in the dark. But someone who is not used to my bedroom, has mobility issues —. [00:14:58]
THERAPIST: Right.
CLIENT: I don't want him to like fall.
THERAPIST: I'm wondering how much of your worries about a bunch of the things you're talking about are really to do with — like you have worries about being taken care of. Having people do things for you or look out for you. And what a vulnerable position that puts you in. In that — I mean I think about like not wanting to be sick and take it easy. Rather be up around and doing things or some of the stuff about the cat. [00:16:03]
And the way that you're having to ask somebody else to do all these things. It doesn't sound like you really mind doing but that — or are all that self conscious otherwise about doing — but then asking somebody else then it puts you at risk at being perceived in some particular way.
CLIENT: Yeah. It's that and also I'm worried that he'll go, "This is really ridiculous. It's not necessary to do."
THERAPIST: Right.
CLIENT: "These like forty bazillion things."
THERAPIST: Right. It reminds me too of the time after your surgery when you kind of withdrew because you were sort of worried about asking people to help you out.
CLIENT: Yeah. Yeah I mean pet sitting I always — like I've been fortunate that mostly Ashby and I have been able to overlap. [00:17:09]
THERAPIST: Mm-hmm.
CLIENT: Or someone nearby. Or like I can ask my landlord to but — I don't know. It just feels — I mean it is an imposition. And what's awkward about it is also that I'm like, "Well I'd like to pay someone like $20 or $25 a day to do it." But that amount of money only kind of really matters — it doesn't really matter to a lot of people my age or income bracket at this point. They're kind of like, "I would just do it."
THERAPIST: I see.
CLIENT: So I feel like I have no way to like incentivize the concept of taking care of my cats. [00:18:00]
THERAPIST: I see. In other words, somebody is just going to want to have to take care of you and do something nice.
CLIENT: Yes. Yes.
THERAPIST: Which is way more vulnerable than a business transaction.
CLIENT: Yeah. Yes. Exactly. And the guy that's looking after my cat is on disability.
THERAPIST: Yeah.
CLIENT: And definitely could use it. Like this will be a windfall etc. And I'm kind of like, "Yes. Great. This is perfect!"
THERAPIST: (laughs)
CLIENT: "You do need 20 bucks a day!" But then I still feel kind of bad about stairs.
THERAPIST: Right.
CLIENT: Yeah it just—it's also one of those things where I totally get why some people are like, "I'm boarding my pets. It's just what I do." [00:18:53]
THERAPIST: Mm-hmm. Right.
CLIENT: But —
THERAPIST: But also in another direction — I still wonder what therapy is like in this light. I mean obviously I, like Christian, am being compensated. (laughter) But there is some element of putting yourself in somebody else's hands or I would imagine similar vulnerability.
CLIENT: Yeah it depends. Like today — I mean most of the time that I'm paying you, I'm like, "Well I am paying you to listen to me for X amount of time." So that makes it much easier than calling a friend and being like, "I want you to listen to me for an hour." [00:20:10]
THERAPIST: I see.
CLIENT: But also sometimes I just — when I'm really — I feel like I'm being really repetitive or worrying over something. Like I don't know if I'm really stuck on a like a mental loop about something. Then I feel bad. Because I feel like I'm bored with talking about it. But it's still something that I'm worried about.
THERAPIST: Uh-huh.
CLIENT: So I just figure I'm bored with it. So you must be bored with it.
THERAPIST: I see.
CLIENT: Does that make sense?
THERAPIST: Yeah. "If I'm bored, he must be bored out of his mind" or whatever. [00:21:04]
CLIENT: Yeah. (pause at [00:21:05] to 00:21:15) But I mean I've felt that way I think most of the times that I've gone through therapy.
THERAPIST: Uh-huh. And it sounds like the worry there — as with other things we've talked about — is that I'm bored and actually don't really want to be helping. I'm sort of put off in some way. Like that would be the painful possibility?
CLIENT: Yeah. And also I think — Well I've been talking about this for so long, why isn't it better yet? Like why isn't it fixed? I guess. [00:21:56]
THERAPIST: Mm-hmm.
CLIENT: So then I feel like — I don't know. Like I'm not — I feel like I'm doing something wrong. Not doing something wrong. That's not right. I don't know. This is a weird metaphor. But I've never actually been to test prep class. But if I had been it'd be like going to the test prep class and getting — like working on all these things and then at the end still have the exact same score.
THERAPIST: I see.
CLIENT: Or something like that.
THERAPIST: Nothing really happened. You don't get anything.
CLIENT: Yeah. And I also I feel like—well but there is all these things we're talking about that — sometimes I'm like, that really should make me feel better about that. And then I don't. Or I do some. Or I'm kind of like, but—. [00:23:10] (pause to 00:23:20)
I don't know I think it's a little bit more like overall — like if I'm having a day where like, I don't know, I'm trying to go shopping. And there is nothing like my size in the entire mall which happens. And then usually I'm like, "Well this mall sucks for not having any plus sized clothes." That's not my fault. That's the store. And then some days I just feel really intensely it's my fault. Like why don't I diet? Why don't I try to lose weight? Wouldn't it better if I X, Y, Z. [00:24:11]
And then I'm like, "But Karen, you've already reviewed internally that that's crap. So you should remember that." I'm like, "Yes, but—." And also my blood pressure has been high lately. Well too unclear. It was insanely high at my dentist office but that could be from being at the dentist's office. And then I went to a regular doctor and it was kind of high. And we did this back forth where she's like, "Stop eating all this crappy food." That I don't actually eat.
And then when I went to get tested again, the nurse practitioner is like, "Well actually your blood pressure has always been high." I'm like, "No it hasn't. Look at the chart." And she's like, "Well no but it was high these three times four years ago." Yes I have had high blood pressure — because my record (inaudible at 00:25:14) goes back so far that I'm like, "Just say that I've had probably a dozen really high blood pressure moments over 15 years or so." [00:25:24]
THERAPIST: I see. Right. It's not a good sample.
CLIENT: Yes. So (inaudible at 00:25:31) couple times I took medication that made my blood pressure (inaudible). (laughing) And I'm like, "Oh your sampling sucks." But it also — it sets up a knee jerk like maybe I should be worried about my high blood pressure. I should — something. Except that I'm pretty sure that my blood pressure is actually pretty much okay.
Also most of the things they tell you do diet wise I'm kind of already doing. Except for salt. I love salt. But I think with my father, even with a really, really strict diet, has to take medication. And I suspect that if my blood pressure ends up becoming high I'm just I'm going to have to take medication. (inaudible) [00:26:29]
THERAPIST: Yeah.
CLIENT: But it still sets off that — I don't know. Like (inaudible at 00:26:44) high blood pressure or a few other things sets off all these — it's because you're fat. Even though I don't think it's because I'm fat. And (inaudible at 00:26:56) because I'm fat. I'm not going on a diet. So (inaudible at 00:27:02) if fatness was one of 20 things negatively affecting my blood pressure, I'd be willing to do the other 19.
THERAPIST: Mm-hmm.
CLIENT: Before I would start dieting. Like all of that and yet I'll still have these like —.
THERAPIST: Right. Barrages of self-criticism. [00:27:30]
CLIENT: Yeah. It's a lot easier for me to say that I am fat and healthy. And that I shouldn't — my doctor shouldn't tell me to diet. If I have any medical problems — I can also say (inaudible at 00:27:47) blood pressure's really good. My cholesterol is great. Etcetera, etcetera. But when I can't say that, it just sort of it kind of knocks me out. Especially the third thing that doctors tend to aggravate fat people about a lot is (inaudible at 00:28:12) diabetes being sort of like (inaudible).
THERAPIST: Sure.
CLIENT: And so having a family history of it. And blah, blah. I just feel like it's sort of — I don't know. It's just such a — not really wedge, but like I think I'm okay. I'm doing okay. I'm like, "Whatever. Blah, blah. The last time I (inaudible at 00:28:46) are fine." And there will be this one where I'm just completely overwhelmed by, "Well what if I am really unhealthy? What if I really am part of the obesity epidemic?" That I don't believe exists. [00:28:59]
THERAPIST: Mm-hmm.
CLIENT: But like then I'll start — and once I start worrying about that it's either I shrug it off really quick or it's going to stick around for a day or two. (pause at [00:29:14] to 00:29:35)
THERAPIST: And I'm losing the thread a little bit. You brought this up in relation to being here. And concerned about being boring? I think (inaudible at 00:29:49) in spite of —
CLIENT: (inaudible) boring is sort of feeling like but we already talked about this.
THERAPIST: Right. I got that. That's right. That's right. We go from there to the test prep analogy.
CLIENT: (inaudible at 00:30:04) Yes. And also I often feel like I've already done my —. [00:30:10]
THERAPIST: You've done — yeah.
CLIENT: I've done my fat acceptance.
THERAPIST: Right.
CLIENT: And yet now —
THERAPIST: But it's not that clear cut.
CLIENT: Yeah. So part of worrying about feeling boring is feeling like I've already done that.
THERAPIST: You've done your due diligence and sort of talked about whatever. And why is it still bothering you?
CLIENT: Yeah. Why does this thing keep on coming up? And then also I feel like well — I've been talking and talking and talking about it. And it's still bothering me. Like is there any point to continue to talk about it?
THERAPIST: (laughs) I think I can see your logic there.
CLIENT: (laughs)
THERAPIST: Usually in my experience that means something is being missed. By one of us or I guess maybe both of us. [00:31:07]
CLIENT: No. (inaudible at 00:31:10) If it's still bothering me it's either not what I'm saying it's about.
THERAPIST: Right. Right. I mean there certainly are times where that's— (inaudible at 00:31:19). But usually not with the kind of things you're referring to. Yeah. What sorts of subjects do you have in mind? I mean I don't know if it's how local or general.
CLIENT: I don't know. I mean talking about Josie is— it's difficult and weird in part because it's not something that I've talked about with my friend to death. [00:31:59]
THERAPIST: Uh-huh.
CLIENT: So it's not like I feel like I've talked about this to everyone in the world. I really haven't but — like in my head I would like to be done talking about her. I would really like to be like that's over.
THERAPIST: I think I can (inaudible at 00:32:34) on that one. (pause at [00:32:35] to 00:32:45) I think you wanted to be done talking about her long before you came here. I think it's so painful. And I think in some ways — I guess I imagine that there's certain ways in which it's gotten less painful and certain ways in which it's gotten more so to talk about your relationship with her. [00:33:09]
CLIENT: Yeah. I mean like now that it's not just blindingly painful; I can think about it a little bit more. And then in doing that I'm like, "Oh my God. That's actually horrible." And blindingly painful again.
THERAPIST: Yeah. That's how it seems to me too.
CLIENT: Part of what frustrates me about it is that sometimes — I don't exactly blindside myself with it but sometimes I think like I'm okay to talk about if she's of consent. And like her consent and BSM. [00:34:08]
THERAPIST: Mm-hmm.
CLIENT: And sometimes I'm like, "Yeah that's fine." Other times I sort of start to wade in halfway or even like a part of the way and I'm like, "Oh wait. Wait. No. No. Let's not to do that."
THERAPIST: Yeah.
CLIENT: And it's frustrating both that— because I want to talk about it. But I don't want to talk about it.
THERAPIST: Yeah.
CLIENT: And then I also always get frustrated and like maybe I should remember that part where this is something that is upsetting to me. And remember that more. I remember more. I don't know. I guess be more self-protective about that.
THERAPIST: My hunch is that that would require remembering some more things more actively about how painful it was to know you don't want to go there. [00:35:07]
CLIENT: Yeah. And the other thing is — I mean more and more I'm really impressed with anyone who does rape crisis counseling. I'm just like I don't know you can do that and listen to this and be able to talk about it without just being really upset a lot. And so there is this Wisconsin Congresswoman who (inaudible at 00:35:47) talks Violence Against Women Act and how [Republicans]— they're trying to sort of weaken it.
And she's just done several interviews where she kind of gets up there and she's like, "This is a problem. And now I'm going to tell you about how I was raped and almost killed by someone. And went to court and it was horrible." And I'm just like, "That's really amazing that you can just stand up here and just talk about that." But also that happened 20 years ago so you've had a little time to work on that. [00:36:17]
THERAPIST: Right. Right.
CLIENT: It seems like any time a woman does that — she opens herself up to this barrage of people saying horrible things. Sometimes you don't even realize they're saying horrible things.
THERAPIST: Mm-hmm.
CLIENT: Like in particular, "Why didn't you go to the cops?"
THERAPIST: Right.
CLIENT: And that one I'm always just like — I don't know. That response has been bothering me more and more lately for just so many reasons. Including that (inaudible at 00:37:08) is horrible. And also seeing that something horrible only happened if a court said so is a very, very odd — we accept a lot of things as true that the court could not weigh in on. [00:37:39]
THERAPIST: Mm-hmm.
CLIENT: And I hate people saying that my experience isn't valid unless I had (inaudible at 00:37:52). (pause to 00:38:05) And I also I mean the other thing is that if I had decided to report — like to go the police — they wouldn't have been able to do anything. Which is — I mean realistic and depressing. I get that way where I'm like, yeah. Even if I had done something, whatever that something was, it's not like—the official arms of the state probably couldn't really do anything or wouldn't have done anything. [00:38:51]
THERAPIST: Right.
CLIENT: And that feeling is also — it makes me really glad that we didn't live together. (pause at [00:39:08] to 00:39:21) The reasons we didn't live together were completely separate but—yeah. (pause at [00:39:29] to 00:40:32) [00:40:32]
THERAPIST: I don't know that you've yet found a setting or a way where it feels like you can talk about some of what happened without it being overwhelmingly painful and awful. And I hear you saying about being glad that you didn't live together. That makes sense to me certainly. But I think there's a way (inaudible at 00:41:27) living with this probably all the time since it's happened. I don't know mean there aren't moments where you're closer to it or further from it. And I [hope I'm] wrong about that. But I expect not. [00:41:51]
CLIENT: Yeah. I don't know. It's definitely different from other types of rape I guess. Both from my experience of being depressed (inaudible at 00:42:21).
THERAPIST: Yeah.
CLIENT: Really different from this experience in that with (inaudible at 00:42:34) depression, I'm like, "But this summer will be nice." Or I'll be saying ugly things. But with this I feel like there is never a time where I can just be like, "Okay. I'll be feeling better this month." [00:42:51]
THERAPIST: Yeah.
CLIENT: (pause at [00:42:53] to 00:43:10) Yeah. And I don't know. And there is also this way in which I sort of feel like — not that there is a presence in my life. I feel like dealing with the trauma from this is just sort of sitting there in the background most of the time unless I'm — I don't know. Just like most of the time. And it's really troubling that (sighs) — I don't know. It's just — I guess it's so different from how I've been depressed before in just in other ways. That I sort of feel like I have all these coping skills for other things but I'm kind of stuck. [00:44:21]
THERAPIST: Yeah.
CLIENT: And talking or writing about it would be things I would normally do except it's really hard to. (pause at [00:44:39] to 00:44:59)
THERAPIST: Yeah there aren't many things, my impression, in your life that you can't talk or write about.
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: I think we're going to stop for now. [00:45:13]
CLIENT: Okay.
THERAPIST: Thursday. (inaudible at 00:45:24) We're on for next Friday I guess.
CLIENT: Yeah. I'll see you then.
THERAPIST: See you then. [00:45:50] [End of audio]
END TRANSCRIPT
