Transcript of Audio File:
______________________________________________________________________________
BEGIN TRANSCRIPT:
CLIENT: So, I've been coming - cranking up into work late most every day for probably the last couple months. Which really looks bad but in the midterms, I got to work. I feel like that's as good as it's going to get. And lately it's just been hard to leave the house. (pause) But one day, Chet texted me while I was coming into work late, and said something, and I was like, "You might..." And so all of the earlier tyrants, maybe they think they're finished. [00:00:01]
So now I'm ramping up again being worried about, well, at some point they're going to then start doing layoffs. And I figured what would really be (pause) extremely embarrassing, awkward, weird, and upsetting is if I came in late - and then got laid off. (pause) So what I'd like to go off basically, I've been grabbing at first thing in the morning, and so I'm thinking what if I was coming in late - 9:30, 9:40, and they were like, "So, we've been trying to lay you off, but you were late to work." (pause) In my head I'm like, "Well, it's already happening." But I don't know, I'd feel really (pause) - it just seems extra, for some reason it feels more stressful. (pause) [00:00:01]
And also I do feel (pause) like my being on time is actually being ten minutes late, mostly because the bus that would get me here before 9:00 is horrifically crowded, and it's less of a knife fight to get on. So the bus gets me in at like 9:10, I'm like, "Eh, whatever." And Chet gets there about that time as well. And mostly that's the thing, for the students class begins at seven minutes after the hour, so a lot of things at Cambridge start at seven or ten minutes after the hour. [00:00:02]
But yeah, getting in at 9:40, I think, is probably - it's feeling like I'm totally excited. (chuckles) So I'll try to get the earlier bus. And I missed it by a minute, which is frustrating. I saw a couple of the other guys walking up, and I'm just like, "That's my bus." What was so frustrating because I got to work and I realized I left a box of medication at home, which sucks. And I also called, they couldn't find one of my medications, and I thought, "Well, maybe I called it in and I just forgot." They didn't. I should have another week's worth of Lexapro somewhere and I have no idea. (pause) So yeah, I just feel incompetent at today, I guess... I woke up before my alarm but still didn't want to get out of bed, didn't get myself out of the door. I think last night when I was filling up my medications in the pill box I was like, "Where is Lexapro? I can't find it." I mean, it kind of builds on itself and I was like, "I just want to go home." [00:00:04]
And when I got in, I had probably six or eight e-mails about the same two printers being broken, because (pause) most of the staff people stopped - we used to send out messages like, "Yeah, this printer's down," over our official staff lists so that way everyone knew. But that then -
THERAPIST: And also knew that you knew.
CLIENT: Right! And it was great. But then, various people at upper levels would randomly freak out over things not being fixed immediately, like one of the senior managers four levels above you would suddenly be like, "Is this printer fixed yet?" I'm like, "It's 9:30. Jesus..." Or they would freak out over two printers being down, it's just a complete emergency, why isn't this fixed yet? And I'd be like, well, when we call the people to fix the printers, it takes - they have a 24 hour turnaround. So (pause) that's why. Which led to at one point the College Library System insisting that if we can't get a printer fixed within two hours the IT department should bring out a new printer. And so that process takes a couple of hours to do, and having extra equipment on hand. Because that means you'll have to have, just sitting around, two functional network printers. Which we don't, normally. [00:00:06]
So that led to everyone just e-mailing each other off list just to let everyone know this is what happened, but then we still get things like me getting six e-mails about it. (pause) And also, the students who are working - they used to have reference brands on the mantle where all the computers were and now they don't, they have student workers and they really don't give a shit. It's incredibly frustrating because there are all these overly elaborate systems for how you're supposed to handle a printer being out of service and they have a whole manual and it's like, "Go here. Print out this 'out of order' sign. Take these smaller little table tents and put them out so people know the printer is out of order." Instead, when I go to look there's like two kind of scrawled "Printer Not Working" signs with no date. It's supposed to say what date you called it in and who called it in and all these things. And there's not, there's just nothing. The students I see - they just don't give a shit. They're just doing their homework or reading Facebook. And it's really demoralizing. [00:00:08]
And also, I don't know, someone on our staff list had posted some article about how (pause) people who are implementing new design and programs, they should talk to the people on the front line about how it works. So... basically they used a new sort of shower head in a hotel, and how the shower head was really awesome in theory, except with the way the shower curtains were and everything else, it would leak water everywhere. So the author was like, "If you talked to housekeeping staff, they could tell you immediately, "Yeah, it's a pretty sweet shower head, but it gets water everywhere and it's really irritating." So I was kind of thinking about that in terms of all the things that - yeah, having students do this job in theory is really cheap and good and efficient, except that (pause) they have absolutely no supervision, and can't be bothered to do anything. So it's actually incredibly inefficient because we're both constantly trying to do the same thing, like, "Oh my God." And they don't do things like (pause) if you put in a toner cartridge, you're supposed to tell someone to order a new one. [00:00:09]
THERAPIST: I think in the gamble, you're housekeeping and they're the shower head, actually.
CLIENT: Yeah. And a couple times I sort of kicked this problem up the food chain, and their response is, "No, you don't - no, they're actually working really hard, and this never happens, and I can't believe you're saying these students are lazy or not doing their job." (pause, THERAPIST chuckles) I don't know. I'm not saying they're amazing like I am (THERAPIST chuckles) but I'm not really drawing huge conclusions. I'm just saying a student doesn't show up to work for four days running, you know (pause). [00:00:10]
It's also just kind of depressing in that way where I'm like, "Wow. This library is just getting really run down looking because there aren't enough full-time staff around to..." (pause) Like we have student workers who can barely manage the minimum required. I think it matters if you have full-time staff or like, "Oh, I can do this or that," or, "Let me remind you, you have to do your job." But now it's like, well, there's just not enough people to keep on top of that, so everything gets kind of (pause) cruddy-looking. (pause) Which also makes me really depressed about going around and fixing it. Because for the last two years I kind of had a thing about - in the morning when I would come in, I would walk through and make sure nothing was cruddy on any of the computers. If someone had shut them off I would open them back up with the school ID. [00:00:11]
THERAPIST: Making the rounds type of thing.
CLIENT: Yeah, basically. And now -
(Chainsaw goes off in background.)
THERAPIST: Sorry.
CLIENT: That's okay, when I do that - every Monday it's a fucking disaster. Because no one ever did anything. And it's like, well, I guess I could put this all in order, except that tomorrow it'll probably be the same thing again. Because no one's looking after it except for me. And (pause) I don't think anyone really notices. (pause) For a while, I felt it's not really a thankless job, and it keeps me on top of things. It's good to see what's going on. But I feel like the normal situation for everything is, it's probably not working but I should just double check to see. And now everything is probably kind of screwed up. Things are out of order, things are messy, things aren't working properly, and (pause) I just don't really feel like proactively going out and fixing it (pause) but I also feel bad because then I'm like, wow, look at all those broken or shoddy or not in place... stuff. [00:00:13]
Which also leads me to then stay in my office more and not want to walk around the buildings, it's just going to make me annoyed. (pause) I don't know. I guess more and more I feel like I don't want to leave my office. My office is really empty, which is frustrating sometimes - there's no one in my office most of the day except for me. And well, it's a little isolating, I should probably get out and do things or walk around. But lately I've been feeling like, "Well, if I do that, all that I'll do is be more frustrated." Because I'll just see, "Oh, here's another thing that I really wish someone would fix, or could get fixed but it can't," or, "Oh, look, someone left trash in this room and there's normally a trash can in it," and things like that. #00:00:14#
I guess why I think - that's the weird part of some of those parts of Cambridge since they have the money, and that's kind of what it feels like. I know Cambridge has lots of money. I know the library specifically has lots of money. But as an employer that's just the element - they don't have any money to maintain anything. But they do have money to buy ridiculous, random things. And actually, Saturday I was having breakfast with someone who works for MSNBC and she's a very young verb checker, prissy pants, upper level person, and I was talking about how - she's also a Cambridge alum, and I was telling her how Cambridge is just throwing money at the idea of technology. And she said, "Oh, have you gotten the Microsoft Circus Table yet? There's a good sign that you're just wasting money." (therapist laughs) No! (laughs) [00:00:15]
THERAPIST: That's very funny.
CLIENT: There are the words, we were talking about it for a while. That also disagrees with me.
THERAPIST: Based on jumping the shark of frivolous spending.
CLIENT: Yeah. It's like, "draining.com," it was the fancy air and officers, and buying too many of those was a sign that your company was just being ridiculous. (pause) That and iPads. It's just sad because there are a lot of things you could do with iPads that are useful, but that's not being done. [00:00:16]
THERAPIST: You mean at companies? You mean at Cambridge?
CLIENT: At Cambridge, because one of the things that happens during these fits of "we should spend money on technology" is giving senior management iPads randomly. A couple years ago they decided a lot of the senior managers needed iPhones. Which is all well and good, except it didn't work with any of the technology that we already have, like the calendaring program or the e-mail client. And it still doesn't really, because we're using Outlook now and it doesn't really work very well. It's just this weird, "Let's spend a lot of money on something without thinking - does it work with anything we already have?" And they they end up spending even more money to retrofit it. And now they're buying the KG department iPhones. They had Palm Treos and all these other things, and now they're all getting iPhones. And I'm like, "Yeah, would be nice. Still can't have it." (pause) [00:00:17]
But yeah, part of it is I just feel also super - like numb and I'm not really paying attention and I've even checked out at work, which I've been feeling for a while.
THERAPIST: Well, it's all coming out, at least, so hard a day. You're probably frustrated and probably bemused. You're pretty much ripping on work.
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: I'm not saying they don't deserve it. I'm just saying at least you know what you're mostly talking about, or doing.
CLIENT: Yeah. I guess for me today was one of those days of being like, "Wow." (pause) Part of the ripping was that some of the things are not working, and it feels like for such stupid reasons that it just seems impossible that so many things are not working in such basic ways that seem so fixable, and yet they're not. (pause) And (pause) also talking about them at work is just so... It's really hard to talk to. I was talking to one of my coworkers, and she's like, well, I can totally understand but I can also make the argument for both sides, and she kind of shows me, "I really don't know enough about it." And I don't want to make the argument for this transition team very much. I mean, I could have made an argument for what they were doing six months ago. But currently, I don't think I could muster up a good argument. (pause) [00:00:20]
Some people are super nihilistic about it, and some people are super depressed or upset or angry. And (pause) also, not a lot of people are not talking about how they feel. There's a lot of talking about how their coworkers are doing. (pause) Which is always kind of confusing to talk about. On Friday, one of my coworkers was talking about how, (pause) "Oh, this person's trying to be really positive on the staff. Nine years and she got really shot down." And I was like, "Well, but did you read what she said?" And she was like, "No." And after a little bit, I was like, "Are you trying to say you want to be more positive? Because I..." She was also talking about how three of her coworkers - she had a great department, and two of her coworkers are all retiring. And this is something she thought would never happen. Like a month ago, she said, she thought this never was going to happen. And she's like, "Yeah, this person's too young to retire," and I was like, "Yeah, that's really funky, you want to talk about it a little bit?" And after a little while I was kind of like, "Wait, I think you're saying that you feel like you're really young to (pause) be in this situation." She had her daughter in, because they had to find a house. And I'd forgotten the way there. [00:00:21]
I feel like I'm spending too much time trying to decode my coworkers' conversations. (pause) Which is kind of frustrating and crazy-making. And also it makes it really hard when I'm just trying to speak directly about something, I'm really not speaking in code this time. There's no good way to go - you didn't even say that. (pause) It just doesn't...
THERAPIST: Like people are still going to read into what you say?
CLIENT: Yeah. Like, "Well, why are you saying that you're not..."
THERAPIST: I see. Yeah.
CLIENT: It's that weird, like, "You can trust me." [00:00:22]
THERAPIST: (chuckles) Right. "I'm not a liar."
CLIENT: Right. I would never lie to you, obviously. And they're like, okay, what have you been lying about? So (pause) a part of me maybe just doesn't want to talk to anyone at work. Or do anything around campus with anyone else. Or a bazillion other things. And the person that was leading the sort of working group, what have you, make the expensive tables room actually work, is retiring. And so is someone else on that team. So I'm like, well, I guess you will never figure out how to use these stupid tables. Great. So even though working with them can be kind of frustrating, I at least am like, well, I'm glad that at least something eventually might happen. And now I'm like, okay, I guess, really, nothing will happen, and so I'm going to be stuck with this stupid room. Or even beyond that, I'm going to be like, the library is still stuck with this stupid room that no one wants to use. At this point it's the absolute last choice. People are trying to keep our scheduling at any other time. [00:00:24]
THERAPIST: They don't have to be in there, you mean?
CLIENT: Yeah. They'll work late, anything.
THERAPIST: Wow. They're very actively avoiding it.
CLIENT: Yep. And (pause) you know, whenever anyone asks me, I'm just like, "Well..." Only two people I think have voluntarily - no, three people have voluntarily chosen to use that room. And now all the exposed classes are getting restructured, they're going to have papers soon. Like midterms. So everything's really busy in the library, and so no one wants to use that room. It's like, "Oh, God." (long pause) [00:00:26]
THERAPIST: Yeah, I guess that (pause) another problem, the things that are frustrating about work is that (pause) people are on such different pages about what's going on and how to be about it. There's not really much in the camaraderie.
CLIENT: Yeah, I feel like some kind of camaraderie would be like... I would love some camaraderie.
THERAPIST: I think that would make the difference for you, when there's a person like that - not you alone, there's other people who would like that too. But sort of the combination of the (pause) problem with authority and the isolation or sense of not essentially being on the same page as the people you're around. [00:00:27]
CLIENT: Yeah, and also I feel like there's all these things that I can't help them with. Like (pause) all the technology problems people are complaining about, I can't help you with that. I would love to help you with that. And I can't. Or just even weird things. Like I was in - in the library, they specifically told me not to put out directions for students on how to use the new Escape tables because they don't need them and they could clutter up the room. (pause) I was like, "Okay. Sure. Whatever." So initially I was going to show them how to use the room, and students sat down and promptly could not figure out how to use them. And so I showed them, and sat back down, and was like, "Wow, that sucks that I don't have directions for them. It's really frustrating that I have to go over there and just be like, boom boom boom boom boom," and also, it's just so weird, why would you decide that you shouldn't have directions? They keep the things going on here that are frustrating. [00:00:28]
THERAPIST: Right. Like why ask that?
CLIENT: Right. (pause) They're these aggravating tables, but then why would you say you may not put out directions? I don't know, not putting out directions just seems so (pause) weird. Like, everything, I guess... I mean, that's a really crazy thing to do. Why would you not do that? It's not as if I didn't think about it. I specifically asked, and was told no.
THERAPIST: Right. It wasn't as though he failed to say to put them out.
CLIENT: Right.
THERAPIST: But being asked, specified not to put them out.
CLIENT: Yes. (pause) [00:00:29]
I'm just really... mmm. And that just made me feel like,,, I don't know, I just felt like I'm not just being put in a position where I'm going to fail. It's like it feels weirdly in a certain way. I already feel like all these other student managers are almost actively making things not go well. I'm pretty sure they think they're doing something useful, but (pause) nothing they're actually doing is - very little they're actually doing is going anywhere? So I'm like, okay, well, I guess...
THERAPIST: Is your crews of people, like, (pause) how do I talk about it like this? (pause) Almost kind of like - it really occurs to me like this. The people you're close to and know well - I guess when you talk about it, you sounded really on the same page with them. I'm not saying you agree on everything or see everything the same way, but you very much have a feel of where they're coming from. And then there are the people at work - I'm not saying you don't get them at all, or you don't understand at all where they're coming from, but they do all this stuff and you just draw a blank. There's this sort of like, "What the fuck are you thinking?" In a sort of probably frustrated but mostly mystified kind of way. Where it's like you don't know what's going on between their ears. And you're sort of confronted with it, and draw a blank almost. [00:00:31]
CLIENT: Yeah. I mean for me, I guess understanding why someone's doing whatever it is, is hugely helpful. Even if I think they're totally wrong, I feel like at least I understand what it is you're trying to do.
THERAPIST: Although I think it's okay at times when their reasons don't make a lot of sense, like with Karl and the directions. You questioned it because you thought his reasons didn't make a lot of sense. "Clutter up the room." It's so miniscule a concern, compared with having people not know how to use these expensive things nobody wants to use anyway, but at least if somebody did they should have some idea.
CLIENT: Well, also at the time it seemed to just be like he didn't want directions out but didn't really have a reason. Part of it was - he has a very insistent belief that all the students instantly, instinctively understand all technology. And so he's very very firm on that, and does all carrying with that analogy. I think - it didn't feel like he was like, "I want to keep this room uncluttered," or... it was more like, "I don't want them because... of things." And I was just like, "Okay, well." [00:00:33]
THERAPIST: Disagreeing with things very offhand.
CLIENT: Yeah, I mean they seem - well, I can think of a way where I sort of disagree with it but maybe it's kind of like, well, if people just sort of play with it or work it out themselves they'll understand it better. I kind of agree, kind of don't. (pause) Perhaps people are like, they're trying to get people to do it themselves. Except that you still need to learn how to do it. That's not what he thinks. I'm not sure what he thinks. He may have just been freaked out when I asked him, and now wants to curate that so he can't change his mind. Or maybe he would if I asked again.
THERAPIST: In a way it's like, where does this come from? [00:00:34]
CLIENT: Yeah, I just... (pause)
THERAPIST: And I think that place is an altered frequent, but still a disconcerting one for you?
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: When somebody's... invading my stacks? (pause) I'm not saying it's surprising but it's disconcerting. At least, I think it is.
CLIENT: Yeah, it is (pause) but also it just feels really foreign. Like not just occasionally so much as whole scale not know what you're doing. (pause) But yeah, it's hard for me to, I guess, talk to someone or... I guess how I tend to talk to people or especially at work is figuring out what they're trying to do and why. Which is a lot like playing a help-desk worker, because that's what I'm doing all the time. And it works well, it works really well. (pause) And then there are people who just won't, for whatever reason. And sometimes even I'm like, these are my "why you won't tell me is because you're really paranoid or whatever. And then I'm like, all right, that's what we're doing there. (pause) [00:00:37]
I guess when I'm at work I feel like no one who has - I feel like all these people who are above me or have power or whatever just aren't making sense, and when I try to ask questions that might elicit something that would make sense or the kind of thing that would make this make sense for me, I'm just not getting helpful answers. Or sometimes answers it all. And in some cases I feel like, "Well, I have a follow up question, but I don't know if I should ask it." I guess. If that makes sense. (pause) Usually I have people come to me and I say, okay, follow up question is... this other thing. And right now it feels A. scary to ask, because I'm worried at getting yelled at by someone with decision authority (pause) and also I won't - I just have these talking points that the deconstruction team has. And they're just talking points, they're easy. And it is - I just find it insanely frustrating, because it (pause) it's just so - it's not just that it's insincere, it's completely not answering any question that I'm asking. And they know it, so (pause) I guess I feel a bit malicious and/or deliberately misleading.
THERAPIST: You feel like they're being malicious or...? Sure. [00:00:39]
CLIENT: Yeah. (pause) I know that's - I mean, I'll say this and you can say what you think it is - I happen to have a very hard time having much conversation with people who I think are autistic, and part of that is... we don't have the same frames of reference for what we're talking about. Like not really grasping emotions or getting caught up in legalistic discussions or whatever. It's just something I feel really bad about, and feel really frustrated about, from knowing far too many adults with Asperger's who, I'm like, well... here you are, here I am, it's really horrible to talk to you. That said, I don't want to know. I also feel horrible saying, "I can't talk to you, you have Asperger's, goodbye." It feels really weird because I find myself being able to find a plain commonality to figure out where we're both coming from and all these other things. And then at these points I just get really stuck, and I sort of don't - because I don't know where to go with the conversation, with the meeting hand out, just with everything. (pause) [00:00:41]
THERAPIST: It reminds me also of stuck with honey, actually? I think you feel much more comfortable when you can reach some little consensus or at least acknowledgment before acting on something. Like it's much easier on you even when things are good with somebody, to be like, you think this because of this, I think that because of that, so you can see why I'm going to go do this instead of that other thing that you want.
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: It's not even much better for you than the situation that where, it's more like the other person just is like, I don't have any idea what you're talking about or where you're coming from, and their view of things is so different that it completely excludes you out altogether. And you just kind of have to unilaterally do what you're going to do. (pause) I think you're put out with her at work too at times. I think the whole video thing, it took forever until anyone acknowledged that you had a different side of it, almost. [00:00:43]
CLIENT: Yeah. And for a lot of that, I mean, (pause) I knew part of what sort of kept me very caught up in it was (pause) I knew something was like (pause) I don't know, it just seemed like (pause) it seemed like such a crazy situation of like, well, you know, these things happen, it's pretty clear how I requested them and why, and et cetera. So why didn't they get over here? (pause) And also, mostly working in the university, people tend to - some people are very tutorial but most people (pause) aren't. (pause) And also, I've just been stubborn enough to insist, we're going to talk it out. #00:00:44#
THERAPIST: I've got to say I kind of saw a different side of it in here, where was I - I know you're not, but I kind of how I imagine this is you are with friends sometimes too, but I think you're kind of a shower in a way, not a teller, in the sense that you're like, "See how fucking ridiculous they're being?" And you'll come in like, "Oh, my God, they're so ridiculous! And they're driving me nuts." I mean, it's clear - it's clear that, I think, you feel that way, because of work or whatever. Usually it's more like, "Let me show you what happened." And you have to think about how you're saying it - it's not just that you're saying how you feel but there's this heart of it that's like, let's look at this together so you can see how I see it and you'll get where I'm coming from, and we're sort of on the same page about how nuts this all is. I don't know. I'm not quite sure about all the implications of this, but it seems important.
CLIENT: Well, I guess with that - I'm showing you how all of this is looking very crazy, and this is an opportunity for you to make it make sense. Because in a certain way, I'm like, this is all very ridiculous. And I guess well, maybe, a person will come back and say, well, you see, actually, there's this pedagogical theory behind this whole thing. I think it's also an opportunity - in some cases at work I'm like...
THERAPIST: So you're actually hoping to enlighten someone.
CLIENT: Well, I think about those summaries once we're doing this. (therapist chuckles.) Maybe they'll share it. I guess what they're sharing, I'm kind of like, "I'm showing you my thought process, I'm showing you the work so..."
THERAPIST: I see. We're going to stop, but we should talk more about this. I mean, it's important. But not on Friday.
CLIENT: On Monday.
THERAPIST: Right. Well, I'll have to confirm. If you don't hear from me, I'll be in but there's a chance I'll actually be out for the holiday on Monday, but I'll let you know by e-mail tomorrow and if I am I'll have it rescheduled.
CLIENT: Okay, sounds good.
END TRANSCRIPT
