Transcript of Audio File:
______________________________________________________________________________
BEGIN TRANSCRIPT:
CLIENT: Hi. It's been a crazy week. So Julia broke up with her boyfriend, and I think it caused some weird tensions between us and we sort of had a fight and it was really awkward. I don't even know why I was so upset about it. So a key point of information she said she was going to move out because she broke up with her boyfriend. And so for me that was - I don't know why that - it made me feel really angry or - not angry. It wasn't angry it was like a step prior to angry but really not happy or annoyed.
THERAPIST: She's been your loyal buddy in the house.
CLIENT: Right. Yeah, but it wasn't necessarily that. I just thought it was - I mean it was kind of a bad decision. She made it like two seconds after she broke up with her boyfriend and she was PMSing and all this stuff was going on. I'm like maybe you should think about it for a couple days. And she's like no I don't want to think about it. I just want to move out and I was like okay, fine. [00:01:19]
I don't know. Maybe I was annoyed that she didn't think about it. I think that was a big part of it. But she could basically sense that I was annoyed because basically she called me, and she was like hey I decided that I think I'm going to move out. And I was like wait, wait, wait you just called me to tell me that you're moving out. It was just weird and I was like okay well I think... I was a little more quiet than usual I guess, and she was like well what do you think, and I was like I think that you should do what you think makes you happy or whatever; some cliché. Which is true I do, but it wasn't like well I think that's so - it was more like a canned answer I guess because I felt like... [00:02:07]
And I guess I've been struggling with this for the past two weeks. It's like how can I actually be supportive of a friend when they're making a decision that I don't agree with so that's been kind of hard. I've been trying to figure out how to do that. Is it appropriate to say that you disagree? And she had to sort of poke and prod like ask me a lot for me to tell her that. But then I was like well what if that's just going to make her feel bad? But then it's kind of dishonest to not say this. There was a lot of back and forth and I think there was more thinking and she got frustrated and then started being kind of aggressive with me and that made me shut down even more which is this whole other thing where I used to be the one that was aggressive and now I shut down when people are aggressive to me. That's not who I am but anyway...
THERAPIST: What do you think about her moving out? [00:03:00]
CLIENT: I thought it was a crappy decision because she made it so quickly. I think that she should've thought it out a little bit more before initiating the roommate search with everyone else. We had a house meeting. I don't know. We did the whole thing. And it was she was moving out and that's fine, and then a few days later she was like oh I'm not moving out. And I was like I've already started talking to people and this was like a repeat of the Phil situation. He was like I'm moving out but never went. And she was like do you think they'll take me back? And I was like I don't know. We started talking to people but there's no reason why we shouldn't. And she wanted me to say of course, of course like why would we... And so I think she was offended by that. I don't know. I'm not the kind of person who just says nice stuff like if I say something nice I mean it because I think that it kind of loses meaning if you're always saying nice stuff. [00:04:00]
THERAPIST: Honesty is important.
CLIENT: Right. Right. And so I wasn't just going to be like... So I don't know. It's been kind of crazy and actually I wasn't even sure why I was so upset of it. I'm still not really sure because it kind of felt like it was a little bit more than was an appropriate reaction.
THERAPIST: Where would she be going?
CLIENT: I don't know. Somewhere closer to work I think. So probably [inaudible] and closer to (inaudible at 00:04:31). So I don't know; moving that way. So I'm not eight hours away or anything.
THERAPIST: But also not next door.
CLIENT: Right. Yeah. I didn't really (inaudible at 00:04:47) once I don't want you to move out kind of thing, but then I was kind of annoyed when she decided to stay so I don't know.
THERAPIST: It sounds like you were more annoyed about the process rather than the decision.
CLIENT: Right.
THERAPIST: It was the quick I'm moving out, oh quick I'm not moving out; not being thoughtful. [00:05:06]
CLIENT: Right. And I guess for me that's really hard to understand because even when I'm going through really bad stuff my reaction is always to throw myself into logistics, and work, and stuff like that. I understand if that's not someone's preferred coping mechanism or something...
THERAPIST: So it can be frustrating when people have a style that's different than yours. And then she asked you what you thought.
CLIENT: Right.
THERAPIST: So you were put in a difficult place of having to either point out that you didn't agree with her process, lack of process, or hurt her feelings.
CLIENT: Right. Exactly. Yeah. And so that sort of created this weird tension, and we had kind of a fight, and she was like I would've been really supportive of you, and I would've done this, and I would've done that, and I would've said this. And I was like well I don't know what you want me to say kind of thing. At one point we kind of talked it out and she was like okay I feel better about what happened or whatever. And I was like yeah I mean I guess... And I sort of to conclude it or whatever I said something like well I guess it's like in any friendship it makes sense. It would've been weird if we hadn't annoyed each other at some point or something. She was like yeah but this was the week that I broke up. [00:06:33]
And so back to like it's somehow my fault so that I felt was really annoying because I get that she broke up. I get that that's a really shitty situation like that's really bad, but it's not... You know how I told you growing up it was like control your emotions, don't put what you're feeling on other people kind of thing. I felt like her break up was kind of pushed on the rest of the house. And so to me that was particularly annoying because that's something that I never do. I just couldn't understand where she was coming from. It was hard. I wanted to be a good friend, but I couldn't, and I knew that I was trying, but it wasn't... It was pretty shitty. [00:07:22]
THERAPIST: Well you couldn't agree with her. That doesn't mean you weren't necessarily being a good friend.
CLIENT: Yeah. I don't know. I mean she's kind of right that it was her break up. Maybe I should've been more understanding, but...
THERAPIST: Well what would that have looked like do you think? Does that mean that you had to agree with her flip flopping on where she's living?
CLIENT: No, but maybe be less annoyed because I know I was acting annoyed because I was. I was trying to be helpful and say nice things, but she was like you've been acting weird this whole week. So maybe not acting weird or something... I don't know. This is just really uncomfortable.
THERAPIST: How do things feel like they are sitting now? [00:08:12]
CLIENT: I feel like it's still there a little bit. Like yesterday morning - so I've been working the overnights and so by morning, I mean like 4:00 p.m., I had just woken up and I came downstairs for a glass of water. And she was unloading the dishwasher or something, and she was like do you know who put dirty dishes in the dishwasher? And I was like oh that was me. I was running out the door yesterday and I just put them in. She was like well the rest of them were clean, and I feel like if you're going to use the dishwasher you should empty the dishwasher. And I was like but it was a mistake. I didn't do it on purpose. I'm sorry. And so it was weird that it was the first thing she said to me like was bitch at me right. And she's been saying stuff about the cat. It seems like all I've been hearing from her is complaint, complaint, complaint, complaint. So I'm really annoyed and this is really bothering me. But I guess I mean you have to start somewhere. I don't know. [00:09:16]
Like I texted her yesterday and I was like hey, how are you feeling to try and sort of start talking again and that seemed to work a little bit. But I think it's something that I know has kind of bothered me about her but not enough to actually make a bid deal about it. It's like the way she complains about stuff all of the time and somehow makes it other people's fault. I don't know. I just feel like I'm constantly being blamed for stuff when I'm around her. I usually don't care but now that this whole thing is happening...
THERAPIST: It becomes a lot more noticeable.
CLIENT: Right.
THERAPIST: It becomes a bigger part of the interaction.
CLIENT: Exactly. Yeah. Exactly. So that's kind of been happening and so I've been trying to ignore it like I usually do, and that seems to be an effective strategy. Not terribly... It doesn't seem like the normal like I'm just going to ignore something that is really bothering me until I explode. It seems like strategic ignoring if that makes any sense. [00:10:18]
THERAPIST: Letting go of things.
CLIENT: Right. So that's been happening. And I don't know maybe I've just been over thinking things. I was very confused for the first while. And even before she said anything about the house like oh I'm moving out she had told Phil that she was moving and offered the room to him. And I was like wait, wait, wait we agreed as a house not to invite him back. Also you haven't told anyone that you're moving out. Why would you tell Phil? I was so angry that that happened. I actually ended up sending out an angry e-mail, not at her, but at the situation. She was like oh I told him I'm going to think about it so it's okay. It just seemed like there was little thought in it. [00:11:07]
THERAPIST: She was reacting.
CLIENT: Yeah. I don't know if that's just really me being not understanding.
THERAPIST: Well I wonder if it was her reaction to breaking up just kind of making some impulsive decisions.
CLIENT: And I'm sure it is. And that's why she was like well I just broke up, and I'm going through something really hard.
THERAPIST: That doesn't mean she gets to give away rooms in the house to people that haven't been invited to come back. I mean you could respond by saying hey it seems that you're having a hard time and making some impulsive choices which would show that you were understanding what was going on. That doesn't mean you have to be okay with them.
CLIENT: Okay. Yeah, I guess I missed the understanding part of it, but the not being okay with that came up loud and clear. So maybe it...
THERAPIST: Maybe being a good friend in this situation would have included being able to empathize with why she was doing what she was doing not necessarily feeling like you had to be okay with what she was doing. [00:12:24]
CLIENT: Okay.
THERAPIST: Like you jumped to recognizing that you didn't agree with the choices she was making and the lack of thought that was going into them. But what you didn't express was an understanding of why she was doing them.
CLIENT: Yeah. I think that was true. And maybe - I think I was - it may have been just me because at some point I was like it really sucks that you're going through a break up like this is really terrible. I'm really sorry this is happening to you. And she looked like that was news to her. And I was like I didn't think that I had to say that. Like I didn't think that I had to say that that I think this is really shitty and I'm sorry this is happening. I thought that was kind of... I mean in my head that's kind of happening all the time, but obviously...
THERAPIST: It was nice for her to hear it out loud. [00:13:09]
CLIENT: Yeah. I think so.
THERAPIST: It sounded like it was important.
CLIENT: Yeah. I don't really quite know exactly how to handle things going forward because... I don't know. How do you disagree with a friend and have that be extremely okay? We've disagreed about conversational stuff like I think you should've done this like someone else, but I don't know. I've always been supportive of her in trying to listen to what she says. I don't know.
THERAPIST: You can say I really care about you. You're a really good friend. I would've done something differently. [00:14:02]
CLIENT: What do you mean?
THERAPIST: You can say just that which is supporting her and letting her know that you really care about her and that your friendship with her is important, but you don't agree with the choice to do X, Y, or Z. Just like with I forget the guy that's having an illicit romance with somebody else's...
CLIENT: Oh Tim yeah.
THERAPIST: Just like you could say to him I care about you. You're an important housemate. It's difficult for me to know that you're carrying on a relationship with somebody who's in another relationship because it's not something that I would choose to do. You can connect with a person and not connect with everything they think or do.
CLIENT: I guess is there a point in which that is judgmental because I don't think I'm a judgmental person and so for me disagreeing... You know what I mean? [00:15:06]
THERAPIST: So for me I think that judgmental is when you're judging a person. We all judge behaviors all the time. I think that not judging a person because of their behavior is I think the best that you can probably strive for. And there's some point at which no matter how much we try not to judge others, there's always some line - and I think you were kind of toying with this idea when we were talking about the Tim situation - is how much is that choice that he's making to be in that relationship reflect upon his character. So that's a blurry line. I don't know exactly where that is or where it is for every person. But I think that the goal is to try to separate the person from their behaviors because we all make lots of different choices. [00:16:01]
My favorite color's red. My favorite color's blue. That's the kind of thing that in kindergarten that's a really tricky situation. Clearly at this stage of your life that type of choice holds little importance and you can very easily be best friends with someone who likes a different color than you. Now the decision and the choices are little bit more complicated. How much thought do you put into where you live and how much you impact others with that choice, who do you choose to have a relationship with but it's the same concept of you can still like the person even though they have a different color lunchbox. You can still be best friends with Julia even though she did this flip floppy thing and you guys got into an argument about it.
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: Because it really doesn't change who you are and who she is.
CLIENT: I mean do you think that's... Could that negatively... I don't know what I'm trying to ask. Is it something that we have to work out about this, or can this just be a period of post break up craziness that we can forget about? [00:17:13]
THERAPIST: It could. I mean that really depends on how much of a grudge each person holds. How personally affronted did she feel and how personally affronted did you feel? So I mean it could be something that nothing needs to be said and when she has coped with the loss of that relationship that it'll fall right back into place. Or maybe she felt really offended for some reason and it does need to be addressed. That's something you guys probably need to feel out.
CLIENT: Yeah. I think she was offended but she's really great about - it's kind of annoying for me but it's actually good for me. She's always okay let's talk about this because I feel really when this happened. So we definitely talked about it. And I think she was the one that mentioned that I was being judgmental. And so I've been thinking about that, and I kind of thought back, and I realize I'm not very good at forgiving and so this has been something going out of my head recently. [00:18:17]
My mom has always said it's okay to still be friends with someone that does something bad to you but never forget it. So, for example, if someone is really gossipy and talks about other people I'm probably not going to tell about myself; like that to the extreme. It was everything. And that's one of the things I kind of agreed with growing up with my mom like one of the very few things we saw eye to eye on. And so I guess I still do that so for me this is hard. [00:19:01]
THERAPIST: Like keeping it in a catalog of...
CLIENT: Right. And that's like... I don't even know. What does it mean to just forget about it? You know what I mean? Like this is all kind of...
THERAPIST: What do you feel like her behavior; how did that reflect upon her relationship to you?
CLIENT: I don't think it necessarily did. I don't know. I think that's what I'm confused about.
THERAPIST: So maybe that question is how you figure out whether you hold on to it in your catalog of things you must remember, in other words protect yourself - that's what you're mom was trying to do - and things that aren't really a sign that you need to protect yourself.
CLIENT: So, for example, she wanted me to move with her, right, because we had been talking about it jokingly but half seriously because we've lived there for almost three years. And my thought was if she's doing this to me once what's to say that I'll move with her, and then she'll move out in three months, and I'll have to find someone else, and I'll be with no one I know. So that's kind of like this irrational thing. It's not something that she's doing to me and that's, I think, where it's kind of judgy. [00:20:28]
THERAPIST: But it's information.
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: Although she didn't actually move out.
CLIENT: That's true. That's true. I don't know. Maybe I am being really judgmental. I don't know. Maybe it's just...
THERAPIST: What are you judging about? What are you saying? What are you thinking about her based on this?
CLIENT: I would never say this to her and I think this is where she was going. Don't tell her. But I think it was really hard for me to see how much she relied on Sergio for life. I mean I didn't know that she was like that, but that was really scary for me. Like if that was me I would be scared because you know how I'm kind of territorial and I have boundary things like do not enter my room. And so for me if someone spent the night they would be spending the night in my room. And if I went to their place I would be spending the night in their room. I can invite people into my area but it's still mine. [00:21:41]
If we moved somewhere together then that would be our space or whatever, but until then I'm territorial. This is my place. And she wanted to move out because the place reminded her too much of him. And I was like but this is your space like this is your house. That was really frustrating for me. I didn't understand that. I was trying too. It was like well it doesn't matter if I don't understand. This is how she feels it's irrelevant but it was still this weird visceral thing where I was like that's scary to be reliant on someone. I don't know. [00:22:19]
THERAPIST: Well it sounds like it scared you not so much their reliance, although maybe there is more reliance stuff that I haven't heard, but the almost enmeshment, maybe, that you felt she had with him and she was allowing him to meld with her space so much because you would have a very strict boundary around that. And so it sounds like what you felt uncomfortable with was how much she had incorporated him into the house.
CLIENT: Yeah, it felt almost like her life was revolving around him. I mean it's not my place to be annoyed. I wasn't annoyed about that. That wasn't annoying. That was scary to me to think that that was happening. I didn't realize that. And not that it would've been my place to say anything had I known. [00:23:16]
THERAPIST: But you can share hey I didn't realize how much you felt like he has affected you here like your comfort of the space; how much it impacted it.
CLIENT: But that's a scary thing. For me that's like a bad thing. I don't think that she would see that as bad.
THERAPIST: So that's the judgmental piece?
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: You see that it's different. You can see that you'd be comfortable with it labeling it as bad. One way is good and one way is bad is where the judgment comes in.
CLIENT: Okay. That's how I'm about to do that.
THERAPIST: It's really hard. And part noticing the language is that's being able to label it for yourself in a meaningful way will help you not to judge it as much which just allows you a greater flexibility. So being able to label it as it's really different than how I would imagine it or how it would feel to me. [00:24:26]
CLIENT: And I think I said something like that to her. It was like I don't really understand how you're feeling because I do have this and I told you about this is my space sort of thing. And so I don't really understand what you're going through, but I can understand. Like I don't know what you're going through but I can kind of understand it. She was like well you don't have to know what I'm going through. It's like if I judged you for not talking to your dad or something. I was like okay that's a weird parallel to draw. I don't know. So do you think that... I don't know why I was so confused about this whole situation. I feel like there was a lot of... [00:25:15]
THERAPIST: Well how does it touch upon your own fear of relationships?
CLIENT: I think was that reliant on a person in college and that was really...
THERAPIST: It did not end well?
CLIENT: No. I think it was so hard to get over because I was so emotionally reliant on him, and I never want to feel that way again. You know not the break up. Like okay I get it that's part of relationships. It sucks. You break up, fine, whatever, but not being able to move on and have a life that's scary to me.
THERAPIST: Is that what you're thinking about for her? [00:26:01]
CLIENT: I don't know. What do you mean that she won't move on and have a life? That's what she was saying. That's how she was...
THERAPIST: But she had to very physically move on and out in order to do that.
CLIENT: Right. And like this is what she was saying about how she was feeling. She was like oh my gosh I'm so depressed. I can't move on. I can't continue with my life or whatever. And that's why I was okay that sucks, and I understand like I've felt that way before. That really sucks. And so that was the understanding side, but the other side was that's really scary that that happened, and I don't ever want to be in that position. I don't know. So it wasn't...
THERAPIST: Maybe it's a combination of feeling surprised by what she was sharing with you, and fearing recreating that feeling for yourself someday that you would've had back then. [00:27:15]
CLIENT: That makes sense. Okay. I just hope next time it's not so confusing. Yeah, I didn't even know why I was feeling which is...
THERAPIST: Disorienting.
CLIENT: That's exactly it.
THERAPIST: To have these strong feelings and not to know why it is you're feeling them.
CLIENT: Yeah. Yeah definitely. So that was really... At one point I was like...
THERAPIST: And you're doing all this sCarsonp deprived.
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: (inaudible at 00:27:52).
CLIENT: Well I'm technically nocturnal but...
THERAPIST: Well we're not made to be nocturnal although some of the sCarsonp studies have shown that even when people do shift work for a really long time getting eight hours during the day is not the same. It takes a really long time for bodies to adjust if they ever fully adjust. [00:28:15]
CLIENT: I was reading all this heart disease on people who do shift work and people who have a history of depression and how it predisposes you to all this heart disease and it was like oh no my heart. It must go run all day.
THERAPIST: Well this may not be long term for you.
CLIENT: Yeah hopefully only a couple years. But yeah it's getting easier to deal with the patients at work that are the psych patients because I feel like... I thought about... You asked me last time why it bothers me so much and I was like I don't know. It's awkward. But I don't think it was much that it was awkward. I mean it's awkward but my life is awkward, whatever. But I think it's more like it kind of reminds of when I've been feeling really badly and it's almost this empathizing thing where I'm like that really sucks that's what's happening to you. I'm really sorry. And it's really exhausting too and so I think that's why I found it so... [00:29:26]
THERAPIST: It pulls a lot from you.
CLIENT: Exactly.
THERAPIST: To recall that and empathize with it.
CLIENT: Yeah. I mean it's not like I'm saying anything.
THERAPIST: But it's all happening.
CLIENT: Right. So I thought about it.
THERAPIST: Feeling it.
CLIENT: I need to be more articulate. Yeah.
THERAPIST: Well I'm glad you clarified it for yourself. You don't need to be articulate for me, but I think being able to put words to it and understand what's going on for you probably makes it a little bit easier just to know okay this is why I'm getting thrown by this.
CLIENT: Yeah, exactly. Exactly. So that's kind of...
THERAPIST: How are you feeling with your colleagues at work? [00:30:06]
CLIENT: Really, really good. I'm pretty good friends. So I worked last night and Doctor Carson who I work with most because he mostly works the overnights on weekends and that's when I work so I work with him 80 percent of the time. And he said something at one point I said... So there's a box that says history provided by and then you click patient or family. And so there was a little kid who had migraines, and I was like Doctor Carson wouldn't it be funny if I put in bilateral parents because every time I want to put in bilateral parents. And he was like you have a really weird sense of humor. I was like okay what? What does that mean? So I think my weirdness is starting to show itself but also not be as important. [00:31:07]
THERAPIST: People are getting to know you.
CLIENT: But I still I've sort of been thinking a lot about social interactions in general, and I feel like some of the things I say sometimes are really awkward. And as they're coming out of my mouth I'm like that's the most awkward - like out of everything I could've said that is the most awkward thing I could've said. And I think it's just because I over think things because I'm not that awkward in my head. It's just when I'm talking to other people.
THERAPIST: What are you... Can you give me an example?
CLIENT: Yeah. I don't know. Like someone said something about I like going to the beach. I used to live in California and I loved going to the beach. And I think growing up I had enough of the beach, but I love hurricanes. [00:32:00]
THERAPIST: Now do you?
CLIENT: I do.
THERAPIST: So then it's not awkward. What made you feel like that was awkward? It might be unexpected. Probably most people don't think of hurricanes as an enjoyable experience so it's different, but what made it awkward?
CLIENT: I don't know. Maybe it was the reaction that I got to it.
THERAPIST: Okay. What was the reaction?
CLIENT: It was like I don't know I like the beach. It was something like that.
THERAPIST: And then what happened after that?
CLIENT: I don't know. We went back to work.
THERAPIST: So I think there's the piece because there's an opportunity there to explain something about yourself. The awkward is not the ah I kind of had enough of the beach. I like hurricanes. That's not the awkward piece. The awkward piece is then it got dropped where you had an opportunity to be like you know what I like about hurricanes and there is an opportunity for you to sort of express yourself, explain, let someone get to know something about you so that they're not left with this is weird. The girl likes hurricanes. What their left with is so she likes hurricanes because blah, blah, blah. That's kind of neat or whatever would come from it. So why do you like hurricanes to give you a chance to practice? [00:33:27]
CLIENT: Because my mom would take me to the beach when they were rolling in even though the police had shut down the bridge. So it would be this illegal thing where she would take me to the beach and we'd be the only ones on the beach, and the hurricanes would roll in, and I was really skinny and tiny, and the wind would throw me in. It was kind of fun.
THERAPIST: So that's such a nice... I mean even me just getting to know that that's such a nice moment. It's not that you like hurricanes. You like this memory of this special thing you did with your mom. There's nothing weird about that.
CLIENT: Maybe.
THERAPIST: And that's something that someone could connect to. They probably also have some special thing that they remember doing with their mom as a kid. Maybe it wasn't going to the beach to watch a storm roll in. Maybe it was something else, but there's a piece there of probably some shared type of experience that you could connect with someone. But because you started judging yourself for blurting out the entry you never got to experience the moment of connection that could've come from it. I mean I kind of role played that just to give you a chance to practice, but I feel like well I just got to know something really important. That's a pretty vivid memory of something with your mom when you were little; a special time that I didn't know before. [00:34:50]
CLIENT: Okay. So be less judgmental.
THERAPIST: Maybe give yourself a chance to take that next step. The first step you made was... You made the first step of having the conversation, and then you got scared it didn't go great.
CLIENT: Yeah. (inaudible at 00:35:06). Okay.
THERAPIST: But they could've helped you by saying really what do you like about hurricanes and then you could've shared just what you did. But if they don't help you out you can say you know what I really like about them and give yourself the opportunity to go that step further. [00:35:25]
CLIENT: Okay. I'll try. I mean I think I have been trying a little bit more at work. There's still because there's like 8,000 people that work there so there's still people I don't know.
THERAPIST: Of course, yeah.
CLIENT: And I'm still...
THERAPIST: But it sounds like you are getting to know some people. It sounds like you feel comfortable with Doctor Carson.
CLIENT: Yeah. The night shift is really good because there's less people, and so we all kind of sit together, and get to know each other, and bitch about patients. So okay. Yeah, because I do feel, like I said, I'm not this awkward person in my head, but I do feel like I'm kind of getting in my way. And I know that...
THERAPIST: Right because you had all that information in your head that you didn't get to share it so it got left kind of half plopped on the plate... [00:36:15]
CLIENT: Yeah, that is kind of awkward. Yeah. Okay. So I can try more but maybe that would be good. I used to not have these kinds of problems. And actually one of the nurses that I'm kind of close with at work she said that I'm kind of... I started talking one night or something - I was kind of chatty - and so she said to everyone else in front of me obviously because we all sit in like a cubicle - see we all used to think that you were so quiet. I was like what? I'm not quiet. That's interesting when people say that I'm quiet because that's not what I think about myself. [00:37:04]
THERAPIST: Right. And when you get comfortable you're not quiet.
CLIENT: Right. Right.
THERAPIST: But that's you presented maybe when you were feeling new.
CLIENT: And it's interesting that that's how... I don't know. It's interesting. So maybe I've been thinking about that too. Yeah, that's kind of the situation.
THERAPIST: Anything we should be catching up on that we didn't?
CLIENT: I don't think so.
THERAPIST: I did want to check in about body stuff because we had talked about that and then got left off for other things that came up. So I at least wanted to check in how you were feeling.
CLIENT: I still...
THERAPIST: It's a hard place to feel differently. It takes a long time.
CLIENT: Yeah. But I have been trying punching that form kind of stuff like you said. That really stuck with me. I think about it like I'll think I can breath with my left lung. Okay my left arm isn't parallelized. So I think of stuff like especially working in a hospital. [00:38:25]
THERAPIST: Yeah, you see some dramatic examples.
CLIENT: Especially with older patients I'm like... It's really interesting to sort of... Not in the way like oh that sucks. It's more an appreciation of oh that's where my body's going especially when they're really healthy and they're 98 I'm like oh my God. So that's been interesting but I think maybe there's a little bit of I want to try and go hiking and maybe see how that goes or something. But I don't really feel any differently. I still feel - I think it's the nature of diet gain like I've gained five pounds, and I'm still feeling really crappy about the way I look. [00:39:17]
THERAPIST: Yes. That is one thing and that's why all that heart disease. I mean that's all because there does tend to be weight gain when people do the night shift.
CLIENT: Yeah because at 1:30 in the morning by clockwork I've starving and I have to go get food. I don't know. So anyway...
THERAPIST: I mean the best way to counteract that is to try and increase activity where you can. So if there are any (inaudible at 00:39:45) that you want to go on a hike maybe seeing if you can do little things before you get to that place or have space and time to do that but just increasing you know park a little bit further away, or take the stairs one extra flight, or little things like that that you can then feel appreciative about what your body can do, or notice I can do another flight that I couldn't do before, and I feel less winded at the end of that. Giving yourself opportunities to see it working really well. So what did your body do for you today that you can be appreciative about? [00:40:22]
CLIENT: I slept. That was really good. I don't know. I learned to put on sterile clothes recently like yesterday so that was interesting. I've never really been hyper away of my hands before. That was really interesting to feel my in. I don't know that it counts.
THERAPIST: Absolutely it could count. It's probably a complicated procedure to be able to do it without (inaudible at 00:40:56).
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: Yes that will be really interesting to watch how that will probably become routine and then be able to appreciate that you can do this process and not contaminate the field and have your sterile gloves. That would be something pretty intricate that you managed to do. [00:41:17]
CLIENT: Yeah. I think I've been meaning to go to the gym but I've been really sick and my asthma's been terrible.
THERAPIST: (inaudible at 00:41:29).
CLIENT: My what?
THERAPIST: Because you weren't able to get one of your scripts.
CLIENT: Yeah, no I never got it. So I wasn't - I'd never had problems with asthma where I can't control it with Albuterol and I've been having trouble controlling it recently. So that means I've been taking more Albuterol and Albuterol makes me really shaky.
THERAPIST: Shaky.
CLIENT: Yeah. It makes me really anxious too. Like when I'm at work I have to walk around and go places because it makes me kind of...
THERAPIST: It's just a side effect from that. I mean you're not crazy. [00:42:05]
CLIENT: And so that's kind of been... But I do feel better once I'm doing physical activity I feel better about myself a little bit.
THERAPIST: Does your asthma get worse with exercise?
CLIENT: Not usually but for the past... See I was fine for two days and then now I'm sick again, but I was having trouble finishing sentences and stuff so I was like I'm not going to go work out if I can...
THERAPIST: Yeah, it's not a safe time to do that.
CLIENT: Right. But I've been really wanting to and that's different because usually I'm like oh I don't want to go to the gym.
THERAPIST: Is there a way to work around getting something else that you need to get?
CLIENT: No. I think I'm fine. I think I'm actually...
THERAPIST: You can't finish a sentence. That's not fun.
CLIENT: Well I mean I was fine...
THERAPIST: I mean you clearly can today.
CLIENT: Yeah. No, that was when I was sick, but I think I'm better even though now I'm getting sick again. But I think that'll be fine. And when September starts I'll have insurance so that will be good. [00:43:14]
THERAPIST: It doesn't start in August because a lot of the school ones start in August?
CLIENT: But it's not a school one.
THERAPIST: It's going to be through your work?
CLIENT: No, so they don't have insurance either.
THERAPIST: Oh my.
CLIENT: It's just through the health connector because work helps pay for it half of it after you've been working there for three months. But I've only been working there for one month and the extension school doesn't require it. Well it doesn't require one. You have to be (inaudible at 00:43:42). Classes are starting in two weeks too, and I wanted to tell you about that too because that's really anxiety.
THERAPIST: It's a big deal yeah.
CLIENT: Well it's science and I haven't done science in a really long time so I'm really scared especially because I have to get an A to...
THERAPIST: To have it count?
CLIENT: Right. Well no not to have it count. To actually have a shot at - because something like 3.7 is the cut off for people. It's like a really... [00:44:07]
THERAPIST: How many classes are you taking?
CLIENT: Two so it's not too bad. And I was thinking of doing three. I was actually trying to decide between two and three because if I do three I can actually apply to medical school next summer, but if I do two I have to wait another year. But I think I'll do two.
THERAPIST: To give yourself a really good chance of doing well and then see how it goes.
CLIENT: Right. So there's all this stuff going around.
THERAPIST: It's a lot of stuff going on. Well should we take a stab at trying to schedule? Do you know what your class schedule will be?
CLIENT: Uh huh.
THERAPIST: Okay.
CLIENT: I only have to babysit one more week.
THERAPIST: Congratulations. [00:44:55]
END TRANSCRIPT
