TRANSCRIPT OF AUDIO FILE:
______________________________________________________________________________
BEGIN TRANSCRIPT:


COUNSELOR: This, is, June 18, 1970. Research client 0735-103, repeat client 0735-103. This, is Tricia Whitter (sp?). The date is June 18, 1970. This, is interview one, first interview.


PATIENT: Supposed to talk freely?


COUNSELOR: Hmm?


PATIENT: Are we supposed to talk freely? 


COUNSELOR: Do you have some these don't move (ph) very well?


PATIENT: I've got some.


COUNSELOR: Thanks. 


PATIENT: Now what am I supposed to say?


COUNSELOR: Well, you jus start anywhere.


PATIENT: Just start anywhere.


COUNSELOR: There's no relevant or right or...


PATIENT: Did you learn anything from those tests?


COUNSELOR: I don't know.


PATIENT: You don't know.


COUNSELOR: I mean the researcher doesn't show them to the therapists.


PATIENT: I see. I thought maybe you studied those before I came in and you had some idea of what the problem might be.


COUNSELOR: I don't know very much about you. I did read the form that Mr. Larkin filled out.


PATIENT: Good. That's the basic problem. I put it very bluntly to him and whether that came through in the test or not I don't know. I told I'd been to several GP they seem to think it's all in my head so, I'm here.


COUNSELOR: So you came to therapy?


PATIENT: Came to see if it is there.


COUNSELOR: The form said that you had told Mr. Larkin that you had trouble getting and maintaining an erection. 0:02:46.5


PATIENT: Basically, yeah. It's, has been a problem for about three four years. About three years ago my wife called down here and talked to someone. I don't think she talked to Mr. Larkin. She talked to someone in this area at the time and, he tried to, or she tried to convince me to come in and talk to him at least at the time and of course I didn't want to admit that there was anything like that the problem. So, I pushed it back and just let it ride for a while and, in the last three years there have been complete, well maybe not complete but there have been quite a bit of difference in my thinking, change. And, so, I'm willing to admit that there's a possibility that some physiological problem. That's what I want to find out.


COUNSELOR: I see, I see. And that was the change in your thinking that you were talking about. Like changing your mind about being willing to admit that maybe it was a physiological problem. 


PATIENT: Yeah. Also the, views on things along this line have changed. (inaudible at 0:04:22.9) I went from (inaudible) to liberal in my thinking so it goes a long way I suppose.


COUNSELOR: Yeah, yeah it's like a much broader kind of change in your whole outlook. 


PATIENT: I was raised in - what do you call - alter conservative or conservative family, you know?


COUNSELOR: Yeah.


PATIENT: For a certain period of time you tend to hold onto these ideas, and then you get to a point where you're thinking as quite, quite as relevant as they used to be and you start looking at things from a different point of view. 


COUNSELOR: Yeah.


PATIENT: But it's gotten to a point now where, well at the time she called here three years ago, she had, as I see it intentions of packing up and leaving. And why she didn't I don't know. But now she's more tolerant that I'm not and it's more my doing this time then it is her trying to get me to come down here.


COUNSELOR: Uh huh, I see. Like it isn't now she's been wishing you but you yourself wanted to.


PATIENT: Yeah. When I get pushed I don't do anything. 0:05:43.8


COUNSELOR: Yeah, I don't like it much either I guess.


PATIENT: I rebel more than I accomplish. I think it's to a state now where it got to be, something's got to be done. So if it's not physiological then it needs to be pursued in the other aspect. And like I was telling - I think it's Mr. Larkin I was telling - I've been to a neurologist in the past year who, just looked at me, took a couple of tests thought maybe I had cancer so he sent me to a lab to get the cancer test. And, when I called him back to find out the results of this test he told me it's negative I don't have cancer. And, looking at the price I paid to just find out that much it didn't seem worth it so I went on to pursue it from this standpoint and prove this and go back to that. It has to be that way. You seem to think there might be a possibility of a slight infection but the way he said it didn't even make it sound too important so...


COUNSELOR: Yeah.


PATIENT: Oh well if it's not that important to him, then it's not going to be that important to me.


COUNSELOR: It's not worth going back for.


PATIENT: Not worth going back for 20 dollars every time I come into his office. So, just out of the clear blue sky one night I said something about psychotherapy or something like that. And she said yep she called. In fact I didn't remember her telling me about it, or trying to get me to come down here to a great extent. I didn't even remember it. So, she was telling me she called someone down here and talked to him and was trying, told her what I should do is come down and try to make an appointment to get into a program. So she dug up this phone number out of a file she had and pursued it from there. 0:08:01.4


COUNSELOR: That's the story of how you got here?


PATIENT: That's the story of how I got here. What I want to know is the story on how I'm going to leave.


COUNSELOR: Yeah, yeah.


PATIENT: Now I'm anxious to get some kind progress along this thing. Along this line so to speak because, well when I called down here and they said it would be October before I could get started on something like this well, we kind of got into a disappointed state so to speak. When they called me next, well I called in about a month, and they called and said, "Can you start next week?" Well we were both more or less elated because we both want to get this problem resolved, so we're quite hopeful.


COUNSELOR: I guess it came as a very pleasant surprise that you could start so soon.


PATIENT: Yep. It didn't seem like the testing was a thorough as I thought it was going to be. I had to, dealt deeper than I thought it did but it didn't seem as thorough as I expected it to be.


COUNSELOR: It sounds like that disappointed you some.


PATIENT: No. Well I haven't taken courses where studied testing on things like this. I expected it to be hours and hours and hours and hours of testing before they could really compile a complete profile and, background on things like this. So it was just shorter than I maybe anticipated.


COUNSELOR: Yeah.


PATIENT: That's why I was asking you if you'd anything from it.


COUNSELOR: Oh right. But no, maybe you didn't realize that the testing was just for the research. Like, when we're not doing research here we don't test people. 


PATIENT: It's not related to this?


COUNSELOR: Right, right, right. I'll probably never see the tests.


PATIENT: I see. I thought maybe they were interrelated. And the therapist would rely on the testing (inaudible).


COUNSELOR: Naw, I guess we usually feel it's a good idea to hear about it from the person itself. 0:10:33.7


PATIENT: However on one test there I still don't think I did it right. I'd do a couple of lines and then read the directions again and I'd do a couple more lines and I think every time I'd read the directions I'd get a different idea on how I'm supposed to be doing it. So the whole test was probably incoherent to a point because I changed the style of thinking each time I'd read those directions. The one where you compared three personalities and one, two of them you are supposed to tell what you like or how you acted with in, how you acted with a third one which was dislike, so on and so forth.


COUNSELOR: It sounds complicated.


PATIENT: Hate math and I think I'd just as soon take a math test then try to figure that one out.


COUNSELOR: Yeah, yeah. It sounds like it was a lot of effort trying to figure out trying to get it right. 


PATIENT: Like I said I don't think I really, accomplished anything because I would change my thinking every time I'd read the instructions. Are we supposed to sit here and just tell anything that comes to my mind? I know one thing I think you probably noticed if you looked at those tests that I worry too much. I worry a lot. Lets put it that way whether it's too much or not I don't know. I worry about how to pay bills, how to manage the money which I don't. 


COUNSELOR: Don't manage it worrying?


PATIENT: Don't manage it worry a lot. It bothers me all the time so to speak. I worry about, how to pay the bills, are overdue. Which I should have had the money for in the first place. I'm just saying I'm a poor money manager. That's why, most the time my wife tries to take care of it so I don't have to be worrying about it so much. Like she doesn't tell me about a load of bills we have because, she knows good and well that, well she knows that I used to, I suppose I still would if I had to worry about it or had to take care of it. I'd lay awake at night worrying about the bills rather than sleeping. She'd be sleeping and wake up the next morning I'm dead tired because I laid there and worried all night and something I really didn't need to be worried about. 0:13:25.8


COUNSELOR: It sounds like you still worry about some money. 


PATIENT: I used to chew my fingernails clear back to the quick and now I don't do that but that's still doesn't mean I don't' worry. 


COUNSELOR: Yeah, yeah. Like your fingernails are in better shape but it's still going on in your head.


PATIENT: Yep. She said I don't show it as much maybe. Of course if I didn't worry so much I might gain some weight or something, quite smoking or something like that. 


COUNSELOR: Yeah, I know what you mean. 


PATIENT: I only smoke because she, smokes more or less. And, I can see smoking when you're going out to a night club and things like this. I read an article not too long ago on how drinking and smoking counteract each other so. I wish you didn't have to worry about so much when you're drinking but just sitting around the house not doing anything you pull out a cigarette and light it up. There's really need to it but I do it anyhow.


COUNSELOR: I guess what you're doing is one of things you'd like to change about yourself is you'd like to stop worrying so much.


PATIENT: Yeah, right now I have this job where I set my own hours more or less. And I'm supposed to be there between 8:15 and 4:45 generally everyday. But, if I feel there's a project in the plant that I need to go take care of I can jump up and go to the plant. All I have to do is explain why I'm going there for, this such and such a project and do something on it. more or less free to set my own hours at that time of year but you know because I just went in and told my boss I had to go to a session and I'd be back when I got back. I'm out looking for another job and, strictly from this standpoint I feel I should be making more money. I'm not doing the job that I should be doing where I'm working because of the fact that I'm irritated about how much I'm getting paid. I figured well if I can just get myself out of this situation, put it in another situation, some other situation where I'm making more money, turn around and reapply myself better.


COUNSELOR: Yeah, yeah, feel like you don't owe them everything you got if that's all they're paying you. 


PATIENT: Yeah. I read these articles all the time - well not all the time but every one in a while - an article comes around - I read these trade magazines all the time I should say - every once in a while how much the physicists fresh out of college are making this year. You know, when you're not even making that much you wonder if it's all worth it. 0:16:44.6


COUNSELOR: Yeah.


PATIENT: Another thing when I worked in somewhat of an lab specialisting capacity. I'm not really a chemist I can bode to being one but (inaudible). Should be working in a lab but I'm working more as a lab specialist and lab specialists make more money than physicists do so, that further irritates me.


COUNSELOR: Yeah, yeah. It's pretty gawling to be doing a job in the plant when they all get, they all get a lot more money.


PATIENT: X amount of dollars more than physicists in the first place.


COUNSELOR: Yeah. This, is sort of hard to know exactly what to say next.


PATIENT: Yeah, you know good and well that's (inaudible) afraid to say things that ...


COUNSELOR: It's something about the tape recorder like it's going down in the record or something.


PATIENT: It just bugs you. My boss asked me about this one project there yesterday, I've ordered the specimens for it and the supplier keeps putting me off on the specimens, you know what I'm saying. I told him there would be one alternative after taking to the supplier, that I could go to their plant in New Jersey pick them up, pick up these specimens and take them into the lab in Missouri - this was yesterday - and research them on the machines there in Missouri. So he said it would be alright if I did that. So I called back the supplier here and he said okay, he'd call the lab and have them hold the specimens at the lab and I could pick them up this morning. So, I got everything rounded up and called my wife and asked her if she wanted to go to Missouri with me. She said she'd have to change her work schedule and all this. Before I could get out the door, to leave and all, I got a call from the supplier saying he'd talked to the lab and they'd already shipped the specimens to New York. So, see I was setting my own schedule and then it got changed around somehow. I got to sit and wait until the specimens get in here and take them down there. Research them on the machines. 


COUNSELOR: That's frustrating to get your plans changed around and sit and wait. 0:19:33.0


PATIENT: Yeah, when you get something in your mind, well when I get something in my mind it's, I get my mind made up on something it's hard to get changed, you know?


COUNSELOR: Yeah.


PATIENT: Something like jumping in the car and heading out of town on a trip, you know, I figured I'd take my wife with me we'll head down there to New Jersey. This place is right outside New Jersey. We'd put up in a motel, take a dip in the pool and, you know, nice relaxing atmosphere and everything. And have that thought (ph) affirming in my mind and how, it got shot down.


COUNSELOR: Yeah, yeah, yeah. Like you've made all your plans and you've been looking forward to it too.


PATIENT: It's like that two weeks vacation you get cancelled out at the last minute. 


COUNSELOR: Yeah.


PATIENT: Had that happen but not here.


COUNSELOR: That's disappointing.


PATIENT: Yeah one time in the service I had it all planned out. Take a two week leave and go home or something. And then about six hours before I was to sign out and leave they cancelled my leave and said they had a bunch of hot projects that we had to work so, they couldn't afford to let me go right then. I don't really like to travel that much any more anyhow, personally. For three, three and a half years or so that I was with this company, I worked up to a point where I was out of town for about 50 percent of the time. I come in on a Monday and before the week was out I'd be going to some lab and stay most of the week., sometimes all the week. I, typical married guy reaction you know. I'd go into a plant maybe on a Monday - say for instance I go to this plant in New Jersey quite frequently - and I'd catch a plane on Monday morning and go in there. Monday night, get out of the plane maybe 7:00 or 8:00 o'clock, have a nice meal go back to the motel, watch a little TV hit the sack and get up in the morning. On Tuesday we'd go through the same routine more or less and Tuesday night you kind of wished you were home. Okay so, you'd have an extra drink or two to maybe subside that. Wednesday you'd go into the lab and work and gosh you wished you could go home tonight. Well so you'd have another drink or so maybe that night, Thursday night you almost have physical pains because you want to go home. And Friday boy you just couldn't get things rounded up and out of that place fast enough. 0:22:30.3


COUNSELOR: Yeah, keep wanting to go home more and more.


PATIENT: The more you put it off the worse it got. That (hand directory) (ph) is another reason why I'm here.


COUNSELOR: Why is that?


PATIENT: Long story associated with that. I go out of town so much and my wife had the three kids there that she had to corral and all this. I never thought much about what she had to put up with and what she did and everything. I'd call home sometimes she wouldn't be there so, I wouldn't think much about it. And, she got to working at this one place and, she was waitress. And she had time to sit down and talk to people that came in if she didn't have any cusJohners to seat at the time she could sit down and have a cup of coffee and talk to the people who came in. The more I, was around there the more I found out that mostly the people that came in and sat and talked to her were guys. So we started going out a little more often then we had been. It finally, it finally got to the point where I got curious you know things just didn't seem to tie together. So one night we were coming out of a night club just her and I, and I just point blank hit her with something that really floored her. And, I said, "What do you got an apartment someplace and a bank account, that you stashed away?" One time she did this she borrowed some money from her dad, put it in a bank account because she was fixing to pack up and leave. We weren't getting along too good at the time and she was ready to take a plane and the kids, jump on a plane with the kids and head back out to her folks or something. We got over that and she sent the money back to him and everything. I just point blankly hit her with this about, about six months ago I said, "What you got an apartment and a bank account, when I'm out of town you're really having a ball." Well it was, there was more truth than poetry to it. So, she started to tell me little things here and there. Finally I got the whole story out of her. She met three guys that she was dating. Of course when I was out of town and once in a while when I was in town she'd have some kind of meeting that she had to go to or something. Me I didn't even suspect anything, I didn't worry too much about it. She'd go out to these meetings stay till 11:00, 12:00 o'clock at night. And so she started feeding me bits of information and finally the whole story got out. Like I said she had these three guys or so that she was seeing once in a while you know nothing real regular. That's another reason why I'm here I suppose you might say. 0:25:49.5


COUNSELOR: Um hmm.


PATIENT: I know what, what she expects out of marriage and I can't perform at the time. After talking about this for several hours I guess you'd say I was of the, psychological state where I would even condone it. It's okay so it is necessary even though...


COUNSELOR: Um hmm. You mean like feeling like saying to her that, "Well if I can't do it for you well maybe it's necessary that you can get it someplace."


PATIENT: Yep. So, this went on for three or four months something like that. And it kept bugging me so, finally I got to the point where I, we have, a different situation now. I've gotten acquainted with some couples and, it's what Playboy calls swinging. So, I told her that this, is more preferable to me than the other situation. I think I told her that a long time ago but just two or three months ago we got into this situation. I prefer it and I think she does too more or less and so, this, is another reason why I think I should have some kind of a therapy. That's what it takes to cure up this problem.


COUNSELOR: You mean like even though you prefer swinging like still, I guess like to make sure as though all the same you still really want to clear up your problem?


PATIENT: Yeah. 


COUNSELOR: It's a better situation but you're not completely happy.


PATIENT: No I'm not completely happy because I still can't, perform, like I should. (inaudible at 0:28:02.2) This tape is not for publication. 


COUNSELOR: Yeah, I guess that was pretty hard to say.


PATIENT: Yeah it was. Sometimes it is pretty hard to, accept things like that one, when they come at you. Like I said I accepted it at first and went along with it to a point where I would even stay home and baby sit while she was out with some guy but then this got to blame (ph) me too much and I said, "No that can't be the right situation." We're both very liberal minded and I, (inaudible) conservative ideas I guess you'd say. So we, have arranged these other situations where we're, I guess you'd say more for, both of us are somewhat receiving benefit while, instead of just one person having all the fun.


COUNSELOR: Yeah, more fair in a sense. 0:29:08.7


PATIENT: Yeah. Much more. 


COUNSELOR: Yeah. Yeah, I was just thinking about something you said a couple of minutes ago about like, "This, isn't for publication." You had real strong feelings like, "This, is private stuff."


PATIENT: Yeah. I guess I feel that I'm supposed to come in here and display my private inward thoughts and that's what I meant by that. I guess there's a lot of people who go to physiatrists, if ever, what they said ever got out I guess pretty much they'd be ruined.


COUNSELOR: Um hmm. 


PATIENT: Not that I have that much to loose.


COUNSELOR: You have things that are pretty bad as it is. Is that what you meant?


PATIENT: Well, no I don't know that they're really bad. I got a decent job I live in a decent home. I've existed for, well married life has existed for nearly ten years now so, things can't be all bad. 0:31:57.0


COUNSELOR: Did I miss understand you then? Like you said something about, "I guess I haven't got much to loose." Maybe you meant more like, well, you can't see anyway that if it got out it would really damage you?


PATIENT: If it got to, certain people.


COUNSELOR: I see.


PATIENT: I work for a man who is very conservative, obviously, or he might be paying me more. But I've been out on business trips with him, he doesn't drink, he doesn't smoke and he lives a very, what do you call it, middle class life I guess you'd say. He's very reserved. If it ever got to him that I had done such things at all one time out in New Jersey when I worked at a bar and tried to pick up this girl at the strip club, and if he ever heard about things like that he'd, I don't know, might run me off. 


COUNSELOR: Yeah, yeah.


PATIENT: He's that type. It would shock him too much. He wouldn't want someone working for him who was that bold liberal, whatever you want to call it.


COUNSELOR: Yeah, yeah.


PATIENT: After talking to some of the other guys I work around, it's not that usual. 


COUNSELOR: Yeah, you're not the only one.


PATIENT: No, even in the company where I work it's, as reserved as it might be, a lot of guys that work there run around shall we say. John (ph) this one guy he's our cusJohner service representative, said something about, "I went to this bar" and he said, "Yeah I heard one down the road there," and said, "I went down there and there wasn't anything down there." I was there [in awe] (ph) and he's telling me about this one there in Cleveland he want to, he said, "There's sure a lot of girls there," when he was there. I told him about the one over here in Missouri that I had gone to one night. It's kind of like Missouri lab(inaudible at 0:34:39.5). One of the lab specialists here that had gone down there with me but anyway we had decided to go to this other little town and have a steak and take in a movie or something. So we did that, stopped at hits little place he'd heard about on the way back. That was just packed, it wasn't more than about four times larger than this and must have had a couple hundred people in here. And had a band over in one corner and the roof was about that far from the walls because this band was playing so loud. It must have been vibrating at least that much. You get out on these trips you can go around and find places but it's never been my luck to have anything, anything come of it. 0:35:26.5


COUNSELOR: Yeah. 


PATIENT: The funny thing is I think my wife wouldn't disapprove at all. There's a lot of guys whose wives might disapprove, yell and scream. If I was to ever come back and tell her I've taken some gal to my motel room she'd compliment me. 


COUNSELOR: Yeah, yeah there's something, something about that, like it's good in a way but there's something ironic about it or something.


PATIENT: About what?


COUNSELOR: Well, about what you said like all, let me see, like you said like a different girl up to your motel room like your wife would compliment you, I got the impression like you didn't 100 percent like that. Maybe I'm wrong.


PATIENT: Well, no I don't really. She looks at it from the standpoint she thinks maybe, lets put it this way, I've come up with this theory a long time ago about, well about two or three years ago, that maybe it was just her and I that there was something wrong that she couldn't arouse me like she should. I think when I first brought it up she kind of passed it off as being some of my wild ideas I have wild ideas every once in a while. And, so, then the less she thought about it a lot I could tell. Maybe there's something to it you know. Every once in a while she'd mention the fact that she knew some girl, nothing ever came of it you know. She'd, "Well go and see if you can't take that gal out sometime," you know what I mean?


COUNSELOR: Um hmm.


PATIENT: From the standpoint of trying out this theory I came up with. So, it finally got around to the point where one time it was, we had a wall-to-wall carpet got real dirty and we needed to get it cleaned and she heard from somebody else that so, here's did this and got a real cheap price on it. We called him up and the guy made an appointment to come over such and such a day to clean the rug and it turned out that this guy was a swinger. And, so he spent I don't know all morning, this was one day when she was off or she wasn't working at the time or something. But she was there, he spent the whole morning there cleaning the rug and talking to her about this swinging idea. You know it was something new to her and me of course too. Even though I look at Playboy and read some of the articles every once in a while but just had never gotten through to anyone else. 0:38:27.7


COUNSELOR: (inaudible) react until they talk to someone.


PATIENT: So, he had approached her about it so she said she'd have to approach me and see what my ideas were. So when I came home that night I was out working in the yard, trimming the hedges and what have you. She got out there and she's talking to me about it, and I didn't know what in the world she's talking about. So I, this guy left a picture of his wife and she says to me, "How'd you like to go to bed with her?" I couldn't tell much from the picture but, it's something we've never tried lets try it, just for the sport in it. And, I feel like I had talked her into this liberal attitude over a period of years. I think there was a time five, six, seven years ago that she would never consider something like this because her conservative thinking. I go using that word again, overworking it. But, we thought we'd try it so we went to this couple's house and she was afraid to do anything, I couldn't do anything, the couple was disappointed. We were kind of disappointed. Nothing really came of it. We, I halt to it real quick because it just didn't work out. Well for about two years I guess you'd say where we just kind of, no not two years a year and a half lets say where we just kind of forgot about it. This other came up, in order to alter the situation we decided to go back and try this swinging idea again and so, that's where we stand at the moment.


COUNSELOR: Yeah. 


(crosstalk)


COUNSELOR: Sorry go ahead.


PATIENT: I don't really, I don't know. It would, it would bother me to a small degree for her to be - how do I say it - complimentary or something like this but then again I prefer it that way then I would have to hide it from her and say, "I didn't do anything." And if she ever found out about it she'd swing a rolling pin at me or something like that.


COUNSELOR: Yeah. I don't, I think I didn't understand that. You said it would bother her, bother you for her to be complimentary? 0:41:00.7


PATIENT: Just a little bit maybe. Like I said I would rather have her along that frame of mind then to be completely the other way.


COUNSELOR: I see, I see, yeah.


PATIENT: One of the guys that she had got into bed with, well quite frankly they go to the same church we do. We like to go to this one church. We have quite a few friends there and I know him and I know his wife and everything. And, his wife if she were to ever find out what he was doing behind her back why she would flat out kill him if there was any way possible for her to do it. Regardless of what this consequences would be to her she'd, I think she'd just about try to kill him because, she just strikes me as being that kind of person. Of course she doesn't condone anything like this. She's strictly the type of thinking where this, is only for them and their particular bedroom. And only them under certain circumstances and, consequently the poor guy I feel sorry for him but, she only, as I understand it they only have intercourse once every month if he's lucky. And I can't blame him for being out running around the streets and everything else. Like I said I feel sorry for him in a way.


COUNSELOR: Yeah so like, if your wife was like his wife I guess that'd be, that'd be much more...


PATIENT: Much more enjoyable. I think. No, oh, my wife was like his wife, yeah, I'm sorry I was thinking from the standpoint if his wife was like my wife. It'd be much more enjoyable for all parties concerned.


COUNSELOR: I see, I see.


PATIENT: But if my wife was like his wife no sir.


COUNSELOR: Yeah.


PATIENT: I can say I had to get my wife into this type of thinking and now I'm wondering if it never should have been done maybe I guess. When I was going to school one time I said something to my wife about, "I think I'll take this girl out." I think this was the start of a problem because bothered her quite a while. And, I didn't even realize it at the time. It was just more or less a joke or a whim or something like that. And, it really bugged the heck out of her. I think this, maybe still is some of her thinking along that line because, I think maybe this episode she had was somewhat paying me back for what I had said to her or maybe done to her whatever you want to call it at the time. Maybe she feels like she was punishing me who knows. 0:44:19.6


COUNSELOR: You were saying before like, you wonder if you were right to get her into this kind of thinking?


PATIENT: Yeah, I can say there was a time when she wouldn't have even thought of anything like this and if it had been brought up it would have been a completely taboo subject. And, I talked and I think I brought her around to the thinking that, sex just isn't that important or something on that line. And, now she's to the point where it well it doesn't make a difference who she goes to bed with it's just all in fun. And, I don't know this, is a little bit too far to...


COUNSELOR: Uh huh, oh, now I see what you mean.


PATIENT: I think maybe the, I feel the situation gotten out of hand.


COUNSELOR: Yeah, like she's gone, much further towards, all that you have and, I don't know, much more than you had in mind.


PATIENT: Yeah. So now I feel I guess I'm having to counteract it by something or other. However, whatever means I can use to counteract this completely free situation she's placed her thinking in now.


COUNSELOR: Yeah, like to pull her back a bit.


PATIENT: Yeah, just to keep a little bit of a room. It's nice to have a horse that will really run but you don't want it to run all the time. 


COUNSELOR: Sometimes you want it to be with you.


PATIENT: Sometimes you just want it to walk and take things slow. This, is, you know this, is a comparison (inaudible at 0:46:22.0)


COUNSELOR: Yeah I know. I guess we should be quitting. 0:46:39.0


PATIENT: Oh, okay. 


COUNSELOR: It's my understanding we'll be meeting twice a week for ten weeks.


PATIENT: Okay. At any particular set time or just any time that's convenient to you or what?


COUNSELOR: Yeah well sort of what we work out.


PATIENT: yeah. Like I say my schedule is flexible. I would have been out of town today if, out of town plan had gone according to schedule. But, it varies. More or less a particular schedule and keep to it to a certain extent. Lets see this, is Thursday then the next one will be next week sometime?


COUNSELOR: Um hmm. Maybe Monday if you can?


PATIENT: Okay, what time?


COUNSELOR: 4:00 o'clock.


PATIENT: Four? Okay.


COUNSELOR: Would earlier be better for you?


PATIENT: It doesn't make any difference. Like I say I can be over here in about 30 minutes or 20 minutes or something like that. I just work a few blocks away, it's not that hard. 4:00 o'clock?


COUNSELOR: Yeah. Let me write you out a parking slip. These have to go down to the secretary because she uses them to write you in the book for next time. There's a box for you behind the glass window. Like you can ask her about it when you get out and she'll show you where it is. 


PATIENT: Alright. 


COUNSELOR: Is it "e-e-r"?


PATIENT: "e-a".


COUNSELOR: Do you have my telephone number here? I should give it to you in case you need to cancel sometime.


PATIENT: Well I have, I have that card that Mr. Larkin gave me. Is that, it's a different extension?


COUNSELOR: Yeah, yeah. I can write.


PATIENT: Why don't you write you name down there to.


COUNSELOR: Sure, sure it's Tricia Whitter.


PATIENT: Whitter. Okay.


COUNSELOR: It's all the same number just different extensions. Okay, see you Monday. Bye-bye.


END TRANSCRIPT
