<font size="4"><b>Chapter Six</b></font>
[p. <i>[205]</i>]

The night before I left the hospital, I had a dream. I was trying
to get back to my apartment from Georgetown, but there was construction
everywhere. The Taft Bridge was all but demolished.
Finally, the cab I was in had to stop, and I had to walk the rest of
the way home, picking my way through man-sized boulders of
upended concrete, roaring bulldozers, ruined buildings.


Reality was not too different. In my apartment, the relics were
still there: a mostly empty wine bottle, a stack of awards and plaques,
with a scrawled note on top: "To be sent to Mother." Some of the
letters I had written that night had been mailed, but nobody had
replied; I had apparently veiled my intentions well. The others still
lay on my desk. My cats regarded me as if I had just arrived from
Mars, and followed me from room to room. My friend Robin had
been collecting my mail, which now lay in a stack on the bookcase.
In the pile of bills and junk was my brand-new American Express
Gold Card. <i>What do you know</i>, I thought, amused. <i>Somebody thinks I'm
a good risk</i>.


I was not. I was still very sick. The night before, I had made the
last entry in my hospital journal.


FEBRUARY 21: I wish I felt steadier. I wish I
knew how to change things about my life ... I think
what I fear the most is that I'll get out and things
will quickly become just as fucked up as they were
before.

[p. <i>206</i>]

I wasted no time getting back to work. As I had been in college,
I was afraid that the minute I stopped using my mind I would lose it.
There were only a few polite inquiries at the <i>Post</i> about where I'd
been. The relative dearth of curiosity was a sign that everybody who
was interested already knew; after all, newspeople gossip for a living.
When someone occasionally pressed me for details, I said I'd been
hospitalized for depression. That was embarrassing, but I didn't have
the energy to carry off a believable alibi. Some people awkwardly
changed the subject. Others tried to cover their discomfort with
bluster. "Well, snap out of it!" one person said cheerfullyimplying,
I guess, that feeling better was just a matter of trying harder. It was
infuriating, especially when I thought about how many times I'd told
myself the same thing.


But there were people who displayed some sophisticated awareness
of what was going on. The first one I encountered was, of all
things, a federal judge.


"Where have you been?" he asked me one day, stopping in the
corridor of the courthouse. "We haven't seen you around here for a
couple of weeks." He had turned around to face me; his body language
suggested that this was no casual "Howya doin'?" kind of query.


"I've been in the hospital," I said, inwardly cringing, taken
unaware and anticipating another excruciating social encounter. "I
had a bad episode of depression."


"I'm sorry to hear that." His next question surprised me. "Are
you taking anything for it?"


"Imipramine and lithium," I said.


"You know, my sister is a manic-depressive, and she takes
lithium," he said. "She says it's changed her life." We chatted about
lithium for a moment; than he had to get back to his chambers. As
he turned away, he said warmly, "Hope you start feeling better."

[p. <i>207</i>]

This was amazing. Here was someonea public official, no
lesswho had freely talked about mental illness in his own family.
He was matter-of-fact, he treated the subject seriously, and he hadn't
pried. I felt, briefly, relieved.


At work, I sensed my editors were watching me more closely
than usual. Most of the time, reporters on beats set their own news
agendas, and lived or died by the results. But this time my editors
handed me my next assignment: a trial in federal court involving the
head of a city agency accused of contract fraud. It was a DBW
story"dull but worthy"promising to trap me for weeks in a
mostly empty courtroom, listening to scratchy wiretap recordings
and tedious legal maneuvering. The only way I'd get out of the back
pages of the metro section would be if there was a shooting in the
spectator section. But I couldn't argue. It was news. In my spare
time, I decided to tackle a more ambitious topic, a story on trends in
search-and-seizure law created by the war on drugs.


As I expected, the trial was about as exciting as a turtle race. But
perhaps without realizing it, my editors had hit on the perfect assignment
for an employee suffering from severe depression. Here was
something I had to show up for, every day. It required some mental
concentration, though not sustained or intense. If I found myself pre-occupied
with my own troubles, as I often did, the turtles never wandered
too far down the road; I could catch up without much trouble.
Every day, I had to make sense of a certain amount of information
not much, just pieces of a jigsaw puzzle, but enough to give me a
challenge. And producing stories again, even if they were buried on
the obituary page, gave me a sense of accomplishment.


The wisdom of taking on a daily assignment was made even
clearer by the hard time I was having with the search-and-seizure
story. It required reading a lot of federal appeals court decisions, each

[p. <i>208</i>]

I yearned to get better; I told myself I <i>was</i> getting better. In fact,
the depression was still there, like a powerful undertow. Sometimes it
grabbed me, yanked me under; other times, I swam free. It was hard
to tell which things were signs of improvement, and which were evidence
of the Beast's continued power. It was later clear that the
imipramine I was still taking was doing only some goodthe "discontinuation
refractoriness" phenomenon again. The lithium boosted
the effects of the imipramine, and seemed to slow down my mood
swings. But what improvement I felt was bought at the price of
uncomfortable side effects. I suffered from constant thirst; I was
rapidly gaining weight; in the mornings my hands shook so much
it was hard not to spill my coffee.

[p. <i>209</i>]

As winter gave way to spring, I alternated between days of deep
fatigue and days of high anxiety. The fatigue may have been the side
effects of the drugs, or evidence of my continued depression. For
whatever reason, I craved sleep. Most nights I was in bed long before
dark. The anxiety, I told myself, was a sign of improvement; at least
it wasn't despair. But in some ways it was worse. It was like being
locked in an airtight box, about to run out of oxygen. Impossible at
those moments to sit still, impossible to complete a task, impossible
to do anything but get outside and walk, for miles, trying to outrace
it. It was like a crazy itch, way down under my skin, and I never
knew when it would attack. I felt like a bumbling Inspector
Clouseau being stalked by his homicidal houseboy, Cato. The anxiety,
like Cato, was a permanent resident who now and then went on
a rampage. Meanwhile, I blundered about in my mental attic, peering
into closets and behind doors, my vigilance no match for the
wiles of my adversary.


My anxiety centered on Thomas. "At some point," he said while
I was still in the hospital, "you're going to have to give me my life
back." But even as he kept reminding me that our romantic relationship
was finished, he kept in frequent touch by telephone. I carried
a beeper, ostensibly so the city desk could reach me while I was
in the courtroom. But the city desk rarely used it. Thomas used it a
lot, sometimes three times a day. As the weeks went by, we began to
see each other againexcept, he kept saying, we were just friends
now.


Which was true, as far as it went. There were many times when
he was a valuable sounding board; when I felt discouraged, he could
point out specific, incremental changes which told me I was, in fact,
making progress.


"You're riding out crises much better than you used to," he

[p. <i>210</i>]

And there were the kids. Sometimes, on weekends, I'd go along
on family outings. Peter and Melissa were friendly, and took my
appearances in stride. They were valuable therapy: I needed not to
be self-absorbed, and self-absorption is difficult to practice around
children. Before, I had felt I was in anxious competition with them.
Now, their thirst for adult attention felt like a tonic, a welcome
escape from the prison of my thoughts.


But we were not merely friends. Thomas was still the object of
my obsession, the litmus test of whether I could be healthy. I could
imagine no other yardstick than his approval. And he was obsessed
with me. My daybook from that year carries cryptic notesa "T" or
a star, to mark the times our late-night telephone calls ended with
his invitation to come over. I knew that there was something
unseemly about the way I was at his beck and call; I understood that
the power I was giving him must have been a temptation nearly
impossible for him to refuse. It made no difference.


In his way, he struggled against it; he frequently told me I
should see other people. I tried. My daybook from that period also
shows reminders of my efforts to cultivate new friendships, even to
find dates. But my weirdly tangled motives must have been painfully
apparent. And Thomas was deeply ambivalent. If I so much as went
out for a drink after work with a male colleague, he was jealous.
Once, when I told him I had done that, he reacted with stricken
disbelief, as if I'd said I had started selling my favors by the hour.
"You ... are ... <i>kidding</i>," he said. Then he apologized, and then he
hung up, abruptly. I felt sick with self-reproach. We didn't talk for
several days. But when we spoke next, he was friendly, playful, suggestive

[p. <i>211</i>]

Yet sometimes, if a few days elapsed without my hearing from
him, I would begin to feel angera quietly building fury, rage at
him and at our entanglement, which was costing me so dearly
despite what I derived from it. I knew he was seeing other women; he
seemed to actually enjoy dropping hints about that. Needy as I was,
some spark of self-respect would make me think, <i>Why am I doing
this?</i>


Mostly, I had to admit, it was my idolization of intellect. Men
who appeared older, more powerful, and smarter were obvious targets
for my fascination and devotionand Thomas fit that profile.
In one or two superficial ways, he also resembled the father I had
adored. And he met my longing to be rescued with his own intense
need for control. As for the other thingshis criticism, his rages, his
intolerance of people he considered less intelligentI just assumed
they were part of the package. My own father, with his emotional
remoteness and alternating black and buoyant moods, had left me
unprepared for the idea that intellect could coexist with gentleness,
patience, or sweetness of spirit.


But subtly, in ways visible only in retrospect, I was beginning
to test my old assumptions and Thomas's version of reality. It was a
process that began with my new psychiatrist.


Ironically, this was a doctor Thomas had put me in touch with.
My former psychiatrist had declined to visit me at Georgetown,
explaining that she was not on staff there or at any other hospital and
tried to limit her practice to nonhospitalized patients. She was willing
to see me once I left the hospital, she said, but while I was at
Georgetown her policy was not to interfere with the hospital's treatment

[p. <i>212</i>]

That had left me in the lurch, with no doctor to see once I got
out. Thomas had called around and gotten the names of some psychiatrists
on staff at the National Institute of Mental Health who saw
patients in private practice. He started there, he told me, because the
odds were better that they would have people who were aware of the
latest developments in psychopharmacology. He came up with three
namestwo men and one woman.


Her name was Eleanor McAllister.


She was tall, angular, red-haired, plainspoken, and, unlike
Amanda, not in the least maternal. At first, our sessions resembled
traditional doctor's office visits, in which we talked only about medications
the side effects and limitations of various antidepressants.
Unlike my sessions with Amanda, my visits with Eleanor did not
seem to evoke in me any childlike yearnings for approval or comfort.
She was friendly but businesslike. As before, I tried to limit my conversation
to physical symptoms and how the drugs seemed to be
working. Meanwhile, Eleanor was keeping tabs on the same thing: I
had frequent blood tests to make sure my dosage of imipramine and
lithium remained in a clinically accepted therapeutic range.


After the first few sessions, we agreed to meet twice a week in a

[p. <i>213</i>]

"Hi," Eleanor would say, in her peculiarly uninflected voice, as I
sat down, and the session would begin. Usually I started by telling
her about my physical state and any drug side effects, and then went
on to assess my mental state for the past couple of days. But it was
difficult to talk. For one thing, the topics were sensitive and I was
trying to be honest in my reportage. But another problem was the
god-awful wailing and thumping next door. I think it was a primal
scream therapy group, or possibly a primal scream marriage
encounter group; at times, there seemed to be people wailing in
duets. I had the impression that at least some of them were on their
hands and knees, pounding the floor. I tried not to pay attention, but
how could I not?


"I feel convinced I will always be alone" (AAAAAAAARRRRRGH!
<i>Thump</i>.) "but I don't really know where that feeling
comes from, I mean, I can remember feeling this way when I was
fourteen or so" (Muffled sounds of sobbing from the next room.)


"So why do you think that? Is that part of feeling worthless?"


"Yeah. I mean, that has to be the reason Thomas would reject
me, and it" (NO! <i>Thump</i>. NO! <i>Thump</i>. NO! <i>Thump</i>. AAAAARRRRRGH!)

[p. <i>214</i>]

"Eleanor," I said, "could we just meet someplace like Dunkin'
Donuts or something?"


She just grinned and said no; she liked this place because the rent
was cheap. It was a nice moment; I had figured out a way to make her
laugh. Slowly, I began to open up to her.


Eleanor's first impression of me, she said later, was the strength
of my conviction that I was inherently "defective." But every time
she tried to get me to talk about that, I veered off onto the subject of
Thomasreporting some observation he had made about me, or
recounting some event with him or the kids that (I thought) illustrated
how defective I was. The ultimate proof of my defectiveness
lay in his rejection of me as a wife, after a courtship that had begun
so ardently. When he really got to know me, he had been repelled.
Didn't that speak for itself?


At first, as my doctors in the hospital had done, Eleanor strove
for reticence. But after three or four sessions devoted to this theme,
she burst out: "This guy has a <i>problem</i>."


This was not what I wanted to hear. As painful as Thomas's criticisms
of me were, I was heavily invested in them. I <i>wanted</i> him to be
right. If he was right, there was some chance that I could change my
behavior and be a different person. Thomas was the first person to
confirm what I had always knownthat there was <i>something wrong
with me</i>. That recognition was fundamental, but somehow people
kept missing it. Instead, they tried to reassure me by telling me that
I was a wonderful, lovable person who deserved the best. My reaction
was either self-pity or silent rage at their platitudes. <i>You don't
know what the fuck you are talking about</i>, I would think. But Thomas
looked at me and saw what I saw: the lurking shadow of the Beast.


"You <i>are</i> defective," he told me once, "but not in the way you
imagine. You are not defective in inherent worth, or attractiveness,

[p. <i>215</i>]

Eleanor's challenge to Thomas's judgment only confirmed what I
already knew, but did not admit. I had not told Eleanor about the
episode when he grabbed me by the collar, or the times he had casually
humiliated me in public. ("You're going to have to lose weight,"
he said once in a movie line, loud enough for others to hear. "I don't
want to wake up one day and have a whale for a wife.")


And so Eleanor and I reached an early impasse.


"I know you think you are defective," Eleanor would say, "but it
would help if you could see yourself in a different way."


Yet trusting my own perceptions created another maddening
problem: every time I spoke the one thing I knew to be true, people
heard something slightly different. I would say, "I'm defective,"
meaning "I am broken"; people would hear that as "I lack self-esteem."
It was like that simpleminded passage in Stanley Jackson's
book: "As to how a clinical depression came about, Jacobson thought
that a diminished self-esteem was the essential feature." This was like
saying that arguing with imaginary companions in public was an

[p. <i>216</i>]

"You try living this way," I would have said to Eleanor, if I could
only have found the words. "You try going through life never knowing
when your perceptions are getting distorted, and not knowing,
when that happens, which ones are distorted and which ones are real.
You try living at the mercy of moods that sweep you away, that you
can explain only by relying on the worst of your distorted perceptions.
Try going to work every day when you can't even remember
how to do your job, and you start wondering why they even hired
you. Try doing all this while trying to live an ordinary life, and see if
<i>your</i> self-esteem doesn't suffer."


But I could not say that. All I could say was, "I am defective."
Eleanor was left with the task of teasing apart the meaning.


In fact, we had stumbled up against the old "mind-body problem."
How were we to understand the "I" in the sentence "I am
defective"? To Eleanor, the use of that word was a depressed patient's
vicious attack on himself, a symptom of disease. To me, the statement
was another way of saying, "My brain is sick"a formulation
that somehow distinguished between the "I" in that sentence and the
brain it owned. But if so, who was "I"? It was as if the homunculus
were speaking, that "little man" that medieval physicians believed
was contained in every spermatozoon and that philosophers pictured
as the being who "operated" whatever lay inside the human skull. In
a way, I was using the same medieval imagery. The homunculus in
my head was saying, "This machinery is defective." But to anyone

[p. <i>217</i>]

So: I could say, "My brain is sick," and think of myself in the
way that had revolted me earlieras the mere product of a chemical
abnormality in the lumpy gray organ between my ears. Or I could
say that what was speaking was not my brain but some mysterious
property called "consciousness," which possessed a superior knowledge
my brain alone could not comprehend.


Or maybe it worked another way. Maybe my brain wasn't an
organ but an organ<i>ism</i>one which had parts that worked even when
other parts didn't. Maybe it was that healthy part of my brain which
kept trying to say, "There is something wrong here"but kept getting
misunderstood and tangled in its own message. This somehow
felt closer to being right than any other way of thinking about it.
But it sounded nuttyas if I thought some kind of Captain Jean-Luc
Picard was up there, getting reports from the helmsman: "Collateral
damage in the main warp engine, sir."


"Okay," Eleanor finally said. "If you mean you have problems
with depression, that's true. But it makes things harder when you
put it in such a harsh, judgmental way." And so we left it. I had
more immediate and pressing concerns.


Mindful of my promise to myself in the hospital, I began to
develop a safety net of friendspeople who understood that I was
having anxiety attacks, who would stay with me until the crisis
passed. The futon in my living room played host to a steady stream of
guests. Robin and Linda, old friends from Atlanta who both happened
to live on my street, got used to my panicky midnight phone calls.
They would throw a coat over their pajamas and walk over, then stagger
out at six-thirty a.m. in time to go home to get dressed for work.
I felt ashamed of my neediness. But sometimes, as I lay awake in those

[p. <i>218</i>]

Meanwhile, I read. The chemistry of depression, I was discovering,
was a very interesting and mysterious subject.


Psychiatry divides the universe of mental disorders into two
major categories: thought disorders and mood disorders (also known
as affective disorders). Schizophrenia is the classic example of the
first; depression was the classic example of the latter, although the
two categories can, and often do, overlap. The analogy that came to
my mind was music. Someone with a thought disorder is like a tone-deaf
person trying to play a piano: he may think he is producing a
melody, but to bystanders it's just noise. People with mood disorders,
on the other hand, have a sense of pitch, but they are playing on
a piano which is woefully out of tune. The first group are convinced
it is their listeners, not themselves, who can't recognize the melody.
The second group are painfully aware that the dissonance emanates
from thembut they have no idea of how to tune the piano.


The problem in either case lies with neurotransmitters in the
brain.


A nerve cell looks a bit like a mashed spider, with a body and
splayed branches going out in all directions. In between nerve cells
are gaps, called synapses. The gaps are bridged by neurotransmitters,
which convert electrical impulses from one nerve cell into a chemical
form, then ferry them across the synapse to a specific site on the
receptor neuron. It happens every second, waking and sleeping, billions
of times per day, like shimmers of sheet lightning in the brain.
Scientists have not cataloged all the neurotransmitters in the brain,
or their location. But three have been identified as particularly
important in the study of mental illness: serotonin, norepinephrine,
and dopamine.

[p. <i>219</i>]

One of the problems with schizophrenics, for example, is that
they have too much dopamine floating around, bombarding receptor
cells with inappropriate messages. Their brains are speeded up,
disordered, chaotic; these are people who, for example, hear voices or
are convinced that government spies are speaking to them through
their electric typewriters. I had run into such people several times
over the years. A striking number of them wandered into newspaper
offices because they were frantic for relief and had developed the
notion that publicity would force their tormentors to stop. One man
kept his head wrapped in aluminum foil; another wrote a long letter
describing how he had mutilated his scalp, trying to dig under his
hair to get the electrodes out. To sane people, such actions seem horrifying
and bizarre. But I was beginning to see it differently, as the
reaction of a brain keenly aware of an inner malfunction, and even
vaguely aware of what it wasyet blindly trying to cure it by
removing an external "cause." If you thought of schizophrenia that
way, wrapping your head in aluminum foil made a kind of sad, intuitive
sense.


People who are depressed suffer from low levels of at least two
neurotransmitters, norepinephrine and serotonin. Arguments have
gone on for years among researchers about which is more important,
but the recent research I was studying seemed to confirm that low
serotonin levels were a major factor. Again, here was a physical
description of a problem which made intuitive sense. The expression
"My mind was going in circles" might be not simply a metaphor but
an actual physical description: if you didn't have enough neurotransmitters
in your brain, the electrical impulses they were supposed to
ferry could simply wander around in circles for lack of anywhere else
to go, or they could get lost. So the depressed person would obsess
about things, or forget them.

[p. <i>220</i>]

Learning more about my illness gave me some sense of mastery
and control, two things the Beast had always robbed me of. It also
helped me grasp a counterintuitive idea: that there were occasions
when my emotions might actually be caused by something happening
<i>inside</i> my head, not by anything outside. Always before, I had
struggled to make sense of my black periods by finding a "reason"
for them in people or events. At eight, the reason had been President
Kennedy's assassination. At thirty, it had been my unmarried state.
Both of those external perceptions had been real; both had caused me
sadness. But neither was responsible for <i>all</i> of my feelings, or for their
intensity, or for their stubborn refusal to be shaken. My feelings had
been so strong that I had freighted outside events with significance
they did not have, in order to justify them. Here, finally, was the reason
for the nagging feeling I'd had over the years that these external
explanations didn't really make sense: it was because they hadn't.


Now, walking from the subway back to my apartment at night,
feeling the familiar sense of brooding hopelessness, I could try out
an alternate explanation. <i>It's the sickness</i>, I would say silently to
myself. <i>Just wait it out. It's the sickness</i>.


It was now almost summer, and for all the drugs and the medical
attention I was getting, my improvement seemed very slow. And yet,
though each day seemed an ordeal, I was beginning to think with a
new kind of clarity. I began to come to a realization that, in retrospect,
looks almost comically obvious. But at the time, it occurred to
me with a kind of slow, cold terror: This illness could kill me.


This was no isolated battle I was fighting, no mere quest for personal
improvement. It was a guerrilla war I had been fighting for
many years, and recent events made it clear the tide of battle was not

[p. <i>221</i>]

The pattern was hard to trackmy memories were so subjective,
so jumbledbut I began to try. I took sheets of paper and drew
graphs, trying to chart a lifetime spent falling through trapdoors. I
couldn't re-create every dip and hill, but I could see the rough outline
of a clear up-and-down pattern. It applied to everything in my
life, in ways benign and sinister, not just to periods of depression.
My working habits, for instance, had always been very uneven. I
could put in extended spells of hard and productive work, followed
by periods of relative slacking off that lasted weeks or even months;
it had never gotten me in trouble because I was by nature pretty efficient
and managed to stay afloat even during my down times. The
overall pattern even applied to the up-and-down fluctuations of my
weight since adolescence. Over the years, I had appeared in some
snapshots as thin, almost haggard; at other times I had been decidedly
plump. No amount of attention to diet had ever fundamentally
altered this pattern.


At many points, I had recognized that various aspects of my life
seemed to constitute a kind of sine curve, like the kind we drew in

[p. <i>222</i>]

Now, for the first time, I had begun to recognize the nature and
form of my illness, and to force it into a grudging retreat. But I also
now knew it would be backif not next week, then next month, or
next year. And if I could not find better weapons to fight it with, the
next time I might be too tired to fight. If that happened, if I ever
had to face going back to the hospital or living through another few
months like the period I was living through now, I was going to
choose death.


I saw this for the first time with clear eyes, a vision stripped of
sentiment. This was not some problem susceptible to one-stop solutions;
no pill, no hospital, no magazine article, no particular school of
therapy, was alone capable of saving me. I was that person I had
dreamed of years ago, headed out to a dark and chartless sea on my
tiny raft toward that lighted pleasure ship on the horizon. On that
lighted ship, I imagined the warmth of human flesh, people to be
with, a life to be lived. On my raft, there was only me and my
raggedy baggage. And now, like a weight pressing down between
my shoulder blades, I felt the icy hand of necessity.


Ruthlessly, I began to ditch everything not essential to survival.


For several weeks in May and June, I threw away thingsold
college textbooks, mementos from trips, clothes I no longer wore but
which had sentimental associations, books I had once loved, hair dryers,
outdated prescriptions, letters from friends, old birthday cards,

[p. <i>223</i>]

I was equally ruthless with people. Despite everything, I had
always made friends easily. Now, I discovered, it was actually possible
to have too manytoo many well-meaning people who thought
that all I needed was some ego stroking, that my difficulties would
be alleviated "if you just take some time for <i>yourself</i>." I could not
explain to them that taking time for myself was precisely what I was
trying to <i>stop</i> doing, that breaking out of this glass box I was in
required <i>not</i> being content with who I was. There were other people,
too, who were like me, struggling with their own demons. I couldn't
afford to keep them around, either. We were like veterans in the
same combat unitexcept that I had decided to desert this army; I
had to leave them behind. Still others were simply comfortable with
the Tracy they had always known. Either they didn't much care if
that person was comfortable with herself, or they found it more convenient
not to think about the question.


To all of them, I applied the same inflexible rule: If they could
not offer immediate, concrete help, I cut them off. I had no time for
them, their lives or their problems; I had no energy to explain. Years
before, when Patti and I first became housemates and she was going
through a divorce, she had rejected my idea of buying some house
plants with the remark, "I don't want to be responsible for a single
other living thing except myself." Now I knew how she had felt. As
I had done once before, because of Thomas, I did not answer letters or
phone calls. If people took offense, I steeled myself to live as I had
not lived before, without their approval.

[p. <i>224</i>]

There were casualties. One of the first was my friend Linda, who
lived across the street. We had been neighbors in the same apartment
house in Atlanta before a career move took her to Washington
several years before I arrived. Linda was a beautiful woman, an
authentic Southern belle from Birmingham who bore more than a
passing resemblance to a young Katharine Hepburn. She was also an
unreconstructed prefeminist. She structured her life largely around
men and made no apologies for it. Her code and mine were fairly
similar; it was just that Linda was more overt about her preoccupation.
Now, seeing me not even bothering to put on mascara before I
left the house, Linda was baffled and alarmed. One day she came over,
sat me down beside a window where the light was good, and actually
started putting makeup on my face herself. I was irritated, but I tried
not to show it. Then, over dinner a few days later, we got into a
major argument. She told me that these changes I was making were
a misguided attempt to forget my Southern roots, to deny my true
self and become some kind of inside-the-Beltway creature of my new
jobin short, to become a snob. I was furious. The part about for-saking
my roots was silly. But I found myself unable to explain what
I was doing. On one level, for instance, the makeup issue was also
silly: when the most pressing issue seemed to be on what terms I
would live my life from here on, makeup did not seem a priority.
But on another level, it was significant: it was a shedding of the mask
I had first put on in adolescence. I wanted not to be phony, not even
in the most trivial of ways.


We were eating in a run-down Afghanistan restaurant around
the corner from the street we both lived on. I tried to say these things
to her, but as dinner progressed it became clear that we were talking
past each other. Afterwards, we walked out to the street, increasingly
frosty with each other.

[p. <i>225</i>]

"I'm sorry you feel this way," I said coldly, attempting to cut the
conversation off. We were standing on the corner, just outside her
apartment building.


"No, I don't think you are sorry," she retorted. I turned away
from her and walked home. I cut her offmy exasperating but well-meaning
friend, who had stayed with me on many dark nights. From
that moment, we lived across the street from each other as strangers.


Later, I heard versions of the same accusation from other old
friends in Atlanta, who had concluded that working for the <i>Washington
Post</i> had turned me into a media social climber, that I had
shaken them off like dust from my shoes. "You were out of here,"
one of them said, with bitterness. "You dropped off the radar screen."
<i>Let them think that</i>, I thought grimly, and crossed names out of my
address book. Thomas said, "I see you are finally making some serious
choices here"thinking, no doubt, that I was finally taking to heart
his advice about ditching these provincial people from my past. My
reaction to his remark was another shock: <i>I'm not doing this for you,
buddy</i>.


It was painful, this shredding of the social network I had built up
so carefully over the years, and I was extreme in doing it. I cut myself
off not only from people who would have hindered me, but from
some who would have helped. I wounded innocent people, and those
relationships would later take time to heal. And yet, even now, I am
not sorry. This discipline, harsh as I made it, was a kind of mental
toughness I badly needed. It was, at least, active. I was used to passivity,
being overwhelmed by misery; I excelled in self-pity. Now I
began to see self-pity as an unaffordable luxury, maybe a fatal one.
There was a novelty button sold at the cash register of the American
City Diner on Connecticut Avenue, probably intended for parents of
small children, which I appropriated for myself. It had the word

[p. <i>226</i>]

One book in my small but growing library on depression was a
volume entitled <i>Cognitive Therapy of Depression</i>, by Aaron T. Beck, A.
John Rush, Brian F. Shaw, and Gary Emery. I had put it aside earlier
because the 1979 copyright made me think it might be out of date.
The phrase "cognitive therapy" was not new. I vaguely associated it
with an old vaudeville gag: Patient: "Doctor, it hurts when I do
this." Doctor: "Well, then don't do that,"that is, as a technique
that taught people to deal with unpleasantness by avoiding it. Now
I picked up the book and started to read; I was either going to use it
or throw it away. It was slow going, especially in the early chapters
a sea of turgid prose, featuring a lot of words ending with "ize" and
"ism." But as I skipped ahead, I began to realize it had something
other psychiatric textbooks lacked: a step-by-step dissection of the
mental habits bred by depression, and practical suggestions for
changing them.


For example, the chapter entitled "Depressogenic Assumptions"
contained an example of the distorted premises depressed patients
depend on, without realizing it. "Major premise: n't have love,
I am worthless. Special case: Raymond doesn't love me. Conclusion:
I am worthless. " <i>That</i> line of reasoning certainly sounded
familiar; all I had to do was substitute "Thomas" for "Raymond."
Seeing it in print made me realize the way some of my rigid, absolute
"rules" had led, inexorably, to catastrophic conclusions. It was useful
to get a better intellectual grasp of the flaws in that thinking. Yet,
contrary to all the assumptions I'd ever made about therapy, understanding
what I was doing did not help me stop. If I still <i>felt</i> worthless,
as I often did, that was the explanation my brain produced. It

[p. <i>227</i>]

I kept on reading the Beck book a little every night, as if it were
a computer manual, skimming the parts I didn't need to know and
focusing on what looked useful. In this manner I came to Chapter 7,
"Application of Behavioral Techniques." Some of the suggestions
seemed gimmicky; using a wrist counter to record my "dysfunctional"
thoughts did not appeal to me. But the chapter also mentioned
written homework assignments, such as scheduling specified
daily "activities" and keeping a chart of my progress. I seized upon
this. The idea of writing things down and keeping some kind of
chart was a congenial concept for any former nerd. I talked about it
with Eleanor, and decided to assign some homework to myself. The
page is still in my notes, dated April 3, 1990: "My six goals for the
next six months."


I remember that as a particularly bleak daysticky and warm
outside, the city a mass of blooming azaleas and forsythia, brightness
outside and darkness in my mind. Marion Barry's drug possession
trial was set to start in federal court in early June. It was
attracting international attention, and I was one of four <i>Post</i> reporters
assigned to it. My colleague Michael York and I would be writing
the daily trial story. There was no chance I would be "cured" by then,
whatever that meant. My goal was to avoid failure.


So I wrote my six goals.


Goal one was the most important: to reach out and cultivate
friendsnot just people I happened to strike up conversations with,
but people I knew were living reasonably healthy and balanced lives.


Some of the most fascinating people I had ever known were alcoholics
or people with problems like my own. Their lives tended to be
dramatic and interesting, their love affairs tragic or passionate or

[p. <i>228</i>]

Years of therapy had instilled in me an unquestioning belief in
the Platonic maxim "The life which is unexamined is not worth living."
But what if the corollary was also true? What if the unlived
life was not worth examining? Was self-examination an endless project,
or was it the means to a larger end?


I started to take social risks. I began to experiment with straight-forwardness.
If one of these people asked me, with genuine interest,
how I'd been, I would no longer try to parry that query with a shrug
or a lie, or with the kind of combative "Wanna make something of
it?" self-exposure I'd practiced at first. "To be honest, I've been struggling
with depression the last couple of months," I would say. The
tone mattered; it was important to say it simply, without defensiveness.
From now on, I promised myself, I would maintain this kind of
honesty in all my dealings with others; it would be honesty as
unadorned as I could make it.


And, then as I am apt to do, I took my new rule to extremes.

[p. <i>229</i>]

It was not clear to me at the time what this meant, but in retrospect
I saw it as the beginning of a new realizationthat friends
could be more than security blankets for lonely times, that real
friendship was the merger of the creative energies of two different
people, a whole greater than the sum of its parts. It wasn't that I had
never had that before, but where it had existed I had not valued it.
Now, I began to recognize it in unexpected placesin an old friend
whose worth I had overlooked, in a new friend whose value I was just
beginning to see.


By whatever means, the unwritten assumption behind Goal one
was to become less self-absorbed and more aware of others. Learning
to do that was like learning how to ski. I had to watch how other
people did it, risk doing it myself, and fall down a lot.


Often, I found the simplest mental tricks to be the most useful. I

[p. <i>230</i>]

The other goals tended to be more down to earth. Goal two, for
instance: "Keep up with diet and exercise program." I often found
that even when I felt exhausted, going to the gym and working out
seemed to restore energy, not deplete it. Or goal three: "Pay a lot of
attention to work. It's my solace, it's my career. It <i>matters</i>." I felt
guilty about the way I had been performing at my job for so many
months. But this wasn't just about assuaging guilt; it was practical.
There were no trust funds in my future. Paying attention to my job
at the <i>Post</i> was the best way of preserving my financial stability, not
to mention a health insurance policy that had taken care of last winter's
whopping $10,000 hospital bill from Georgetown. Then there
was goal four: "Keep up with therapy and medication."


Goal five was: "Make serious efforts to meet men. Don't be passive
about this; it turns you into a victim." This, to be blunt, didn't
work. The fact that I even wrote it down was a measure of how much
I was lying to myself about my continuing obsession with Thomas.
But having this goal at least forced me to be active about meeting

[p. <i>231</i>]

Goal six was an inspiration, though I wasn't to know that until
much later: "Do volunteer work, preferably with children." At the
time, I wrote it down because it sounded good, and because I had
discovered through Thomas's kids how much relief children could
be from relentless navel gazing. Of all the goals, this would prove to
have the most far-reaching importance. But that would come later.


I remembered hearing from a friend in Weight Watchers that
weekly evaluations were better than daily ones, because day-to-day
assessments were subject to momentary ups and downs. So Saturday
mornings became my weekly assessment day. But on a daily basis,
my job was to do <i>one thing</i> that would advance one of those six goals.
I didn't have to succeed; all I had to do was seriously try. It could be
something like making a lunch date. It could be calling a volunteer
group to ask them for a brochure on signing up; it could be going to
the gym. The only thing I did not allow myself was time off. There
were no "mental health days" in my plan at this stage. I was so afraid
of lapsing back into the abyss that I didn't dare take chances.


One thing per day. It doesn't sound like much, but sometimes it
was almost more than I could do. A law clerk friend invited me to a
party one Saturday night, and I went. The noise and bright social

[p. <i>232</i>]

Other experiences were better. I signed up for "Christmas in
April," a one-day volunteer project sponsored by the <i>Post</i>, in which
employees picked out one house, usually belonging to an elderly person,
and spent the day painting, repairing, cleaning, polishing, and
spackling. The appointed Saturday arrived, and I woke up cursing
myself for this foolhardy venture, this bleeding heart do-goodism
which was going to wreck an entire weekend. I cursed myself as I
dressed, and I cursed the traffic as I drove to a run-down neighborhood
in an unfamiliar part of the city. This was a stupid, stupid idea,
I said to myself, and then somebody gave me a paintbrush. At the
end of the day I realized I had painted an entire bathroom and
learned how to replace panes of glass in a French door. And I had a
really unfamiliar feeling of <i>usefulness</i>.


On my weekly evaluations, I arbitrarily assigned a number to
each goal, according to how well I thought I'd done at it. Each item
was scored 0 through 10, so 60 was the maximum possible score. I
tried to make the scoring generous but honest. Week after week, I
found that adding up my numbers gave me a total that reflected
more achievements than I was giving myself credit for. Here was
experimental proof of what Eleanor kept telling methat my perceptions
were distorted, that I was doing much better than I realized.
And since it was my own reality check, it was impossible to
argue with it.


Another technique I picked up from the Beck book involved
friends. If I felt overwhelmed with tears and anxiety, I called Eleanor

[p. <i>233</i>]

But the single most valuable tool was the one that sounds the
most mindless: rote repetition. It could be verbal or written, spoken
aloud or just thought. When an anxiety attack came, my thoughts
began to funnel down, tighter and tighter, into a tiny point of concentrated,
furious energy. Always before, the onslaught had been
unstoppable. Now, I found that rote repetition could arrest its
progress, and sometimes even make the anxiety go away. When I felt
the familiar hollowness in the pit of my stomach, the first prickling
of my skin, I would quickly try to come up with a phrase to repeat. It
had to be a concrete, positive message, not a nonsense mantra but
something that would help me through a bad moment. Sometimes I
would write it down, as if I were a student kept after school; other
times, I just repeated it to myself.


"Every day, I'm a little bit better."


"I <i>will</i> have a family someday."

[p. <i>234</i>]

Over time, I found the most effective way of doing this was to
combine the message with some physical actionso that, for
instance, walking down the street to work, I could time the words to
the sound of my heels on the pavement. Then the words acquired a
kind of poetic meter. The "family" one, for example, was in triplets,
one foot per line, with the stress on the first beat in each foot and the
"I" functioning as a kind of downbeat:


"I/WILL/have a/family some-/day."


It was the Parris Island method, the way Marine recruits got
themselves through twenty-mile hikes carrying fifty pounds of gear.
Sea chanteys were another example; so was the call-and-response
singing African slaves had used in the cotton fields of the South. The
words reinforced the action; the action reinforced the words. Taken
together, it was as if a bulldozer were crashing through the under-brush
of neurons in my brain, creating a new road, obliterating the
paths that had been there before. Those old paths had been the automatic
negative thoughts"I am defective" or "I am not worth loving."
Relentless and inexhaustible, they had existed on a level below
conscious thought, which had been helpless to repel them. Seeing
my distorted thinking patterns dissected on the page in the Beck
book had clarified my intellectual understanding but had not
touched the root problem.


Insight, self-analysisall the techniques I had acquired so laboriously
in years of traditional talk therapyoffered no help; applying
logic to anxiety was like trying to reason with a swarm of bees. The
tools of psychotherapy were useful in analyzing how I dealt with
other people. But depression was a problem that began in my brain;
whatever difficulties I had in getting along with peopleand that
had never been my worst problemwas a symptom, not the cause.
Rote repetition went straight to the source of the malfunction. It was

[p. <i>235</i>]

Later, I was struck by the similarities between the <i>ad hoc</i> program
I created for myself that summer and the twelve-step recovery
methods of Alcoholics Anonymous and Narcotics Anonymous. Their
goals tracked closely with mine: honesty in all things, especially with
myself; clear understanding of my strengths and weaknesses; the laying
aside of defensiveness and pride to accept help from others; the
sometimes painful moving away from people who could not support
my efforts.


The reason for the similarity, I think, is that depression and substance
abuse are rooted in the same behavior: psychological denial.
Depression is an underlying condition behind a lot of substance
abuse, including alcoholismthough the extent of that overlap, and
the frequency with which one leads to the other, is a subject of
debate. The emotional numbness of depression, the gradual sifting
away of emotional response that occurs like color draining from a
photograph, is a lot like the psychological denial of the drug addict.
There are differences: an addict has to buy something to induce this
numbness, while depression steals up on the brain; it is an altered
state that develops more slowly, without the aid of external chemicals.
But the effect of both kinds of denial is the same: the sufferer
develops a delayed recognition of what his own feelings are, and at
the same time loses the ability to see the effect of his emotional state
on the people around him.


At some point, honestyexcruciating, self-lacerating, merciless
honestybecomes the only antidote, the only agent strong enough
to tear through the mental labyrinth created by all those walls of
denial. The difference, again, is that for substance abusers, it seems

[p. <i>236</i>]

With depression, the honesty has to start on the inside. The classic
substance abuser is the person who blames himself for nothing;
the classic depressive is the person who blames himselfthough
perhaps in secretfor everything. The effect of bluntly confronting
a depressed person with the evidence of the damage he has caused to
himself and others can be devastating if it comes at the wrong time,
or comes couched in harsh and judgmental terms. The honesty that I
painfully acquired on my own, during that summer, was a version of
the honesty Thomas had urged on me months earlier, in the worst of
my despair, and a continuation of the journey I began while I was in
the hospital. But at the time, Thomas's confrontations had felt like
acid poured on my burns; I had been barely sturdy enough to withstand
it.


And yet, through that process, I had learned another lesson
which proved to be a crucial part of my healing: the difference
between feeling shame and taking responsibility. Lacerated by
Thomas s reproaches, I had felt nothing but shamean essentially
self-referential state in which my thoughts focused entirely on how
awful <i>I</i> felt about the terrible things <i>I</i> had caused to happen. It was
passive; it was a way to wallow in my feelings without doing anything
about them. It was precisely that aspect which had so enraged
Thomas, and had escalated our confrontations to vicious levels. Later,
I was able to look back and see what I had done: I <i>had</i> been indifferent
to the children; I <i>had</i> been self-absorbed; I had been emotionally
shut down when Thomas had asked for my love. His reactions had

[p. <i>237</i>]

Looking back at that, I learned to say: <i>Yes, that is what happened.
I did do those things</i>and learned that the shame I felt at doing so
would not kill me. The very act of looking back, in fact, was a way of
taking responsibility for what had happened. I had been sick.
Because of that, destructive things had happened, both to me and to
people around me. Feeling shame about that was only the first step;
the more important job was to try to understand my illness and its
effects, and to take all the precautions I could to ensure those things
did not happen again.


That subtle but crucial distinctionbetween feeling shame and
taking responsibilitywas illustrated for me in something that happened
about a month after I got out of the hospital. Ironically, it was
another sentencing hearing in a murder case. Like the Linda Johnson
case, it happened in D.C. Superior Court; as in her case, the victim
was a child.


Or, more precisely, two children. Padrica Hill had strangled her
three-year-old son and her eight-year-old daughter on a morning in
April 1988 while she had been in a cocaine-induced paranoid state.
In the untidy pile of papers that constituted the public court file on
her case, I found the results of an examination by a psychiatrist hired
by the defense: "Major depression, recurrent, severe (underlying condition);
cocaine dependence; cocaine delirium."


In the story I wrote for the <i>Post</i>, I quoted what Hill said to Judge
Ricardo Urbina that day in court.


"I don't feel joy real often," she told Urbina. "I usually feel real
sad all the time. But my kids cut across that sadness." She did not
understand why she had turned to crack, why she had committed the

[p. <i>238</i>]

This time, I heard no self-defensive pleading in her tone. This
was despairing acceptance of a horrific truth. Unlike Linda Johnson,
Padrica Hill didn't have much to say; her statement took only about
thirty seconds. And she pleaded for nothing. With Johnson, I had
felt anger at her effrontery: how dare she kill a baby and then beg
for our pity? Padrica Hill understood that her own feelings were
irrelevant, in the face of the enormity of her deed: "Sorry doesn't
fit." She asked for nothing; she awaited the consequences.


Urbina sentenced her to twenty-five years. "If there ever was a
case that was a graphic and dramatic and tragic example of how
drugs can kill, this is it," he said. I saw what he meant, but in this
case I thought his formulation was only half right. For Padrica Hill,
drugs had not been an isolated choice, but a response to depression.
To say that only one of those factors had killed her children was like
saying a gun could fire without a bullet.


Not all of this was clear to me at the time. In fact, there were
only glimmers of understanding; the day I covered Padrica Hill's sentencing,
I was still far from fully grasping the distinction I was seeing.


But, as I had done so many times before, I filed it away in my
head.


By these meansimperfectly realized insights, mental tricks,
self-assigned homework, antidepressants, and the help of a good psychiatrist
I made it through the summer of Marion Barry's cocaine
possession trial.

[p. <i>239</i>]

Later, I counted up the clips: thirty-five days that summer when
my name was on a front-page story, not counting smaller stories that
ran inside. Every morning, I got up and spent most of the day at the
courthouse, monitoring testimony, tracking leads, nabbing people
in the hall to interview, responding to countless inquiries from the
city desk. By midafternoon, I was usually back in the <i>Post</i> newsroom,
writing the lead for the next day's story while Mike stayed behind
to follow the courtroom proceedings to their conclusion for the day.
When he was done, at about five-thirty or so, I incorporated his
material into what I had already written for the first edition. Once
that was done, we'd usually go back to do a more leisurely rewrite
for the later editions, or try to fill stubborn holes in the story that
had developed during the day. At some point, all the reporters
assigned to the story would talk to each other or with editors, or
both, to figure out who was doing what the next day. Most nights,
none of us got home until nine, and I don't think I had a weekend off
for two months.


But hard work was no act of heroism. It was self-preservation.
Thomas was withdrawing from my life. Without work to distract
me, I would have drowned. I drove myself so hard that my editors
got worriedfearful, I thought, that they had foolishly assigned a
major story to someone with a mental defect. I was prickly and
defensive, determined to prove them wrong. In fact, my editors were
being models of understanding. I was working hard, and so they took
a risk. But they had no idea of what they were getting into.


Just before Christmas, I had had my first experience with a baffling
health problem: an episode of severe, cramping stomach pain,
centered just above my navel. It had kept me up all night, vomiting
and writhing in intermittent agony, then mysteriously abated the
next morning. Since then, the attacks of stomach pain had become

[p. <i>240</i>]

"I need to be back at work by the time jury selection is finished,"
I told the surgeon.


"Piece of cake," he said. "We'll have you out of here in no time."


Once again, my mother wanted to come up; once again, I
refused. Consumed by the urgency I felt about my job, I just wanted
to get this over and done with. No doting mothers, no languid convalescence
for me. Before dawn one Thursday morning in early June,
I caught a cab to Georgetown Hospital, checked myself in, and
awoke several hours later minus a gallbladder. Two days later, I went
home. The postoperative pain was much worse than I had imagined,
but by that weekend I was out of the house, carefully taking my first
walk up the street.


The hospital instructions had said to allow three weeks for recuperation.
This was advice I might have paid attention to, except for
one thing: the lack of physical activity was exacerbating my depression-related
anxiety. Being still was a mental torture far worse than
the pain in my gut. The following Thursday, exactly one week after
my surgery, I was back in the newsroom, working at my desk. I wore

[p. <i>241</i>]

In late afternoon, I looked down at myself and froze: spreading
across my middle was a dark, reddish stain. I had been moving
around too much, and my incision had begun to drain. I shoved my
chair up against my desk, hiding my sweater, while I tried to think
of what to do. I could imagine the sensation it would create if I rose
from my desk, ghoul-like, and croaked, "Help!" But casually
strolling out the door didn't seem the thing either; I looked like a
recent gunshot victim. Finally I picked up the phone and called my
immediate editor, John Mintz, who was sitting about thirty feet
away.


"You have to come back here," I said, and hung up. John was on
deadline, and normally he would have said, irritably, "What is it?"
but something in my voice must have told him this was unusual. He
appeared a few seconds later. When he saw me his face went white.


"Stay right there," he said. "Don't move." I did as he said, feeling
really stupid. The appearance of bodily fluids in the workplace is not
covered in etiquette books, and so I had no idea what to say or do. It
felt as if I'd developed some weird female problem nobody had ever
encountered before. In just a moment, John was back with our boss,
Mary Jo Meisner.


"Come with me," she said. I picked up my purse and a manila
file folder to hold across my stomach, and meekly followed her out
the door. We drove to Georgetown Hospital's emergency room,
which was starting to look really familiar. Mary Jo sat in the examining
room, like a stern den mother, while an intern took a look and
assured us that it was just the incision draining, nothing to worry
about. He patched me up with a new bandage, and we drove back

[p. <i>242</i>]

Milton Coleman, who ran the <i>Post</i>'s metro section, was worried
about me, she said. <i>She</i> was worried about me. Even before this incident
today, it had been clear that I was under a strain. But this
coming to the office straight from surgerythis was more than
worrisome. This was <i>strange</i>.


"You just don't look well," she said. Her face was grave. "We
want you to go home." <i>Right</i>, I thought, <i>just long enough for somebody
else to get their hands on my story</i>.


"It's okay," I said. "I'm sorry about what happened here, but"
Mary Jo wasn't having any of it. Reluctantly, I followed her orders
and went home. I lasted there for three days, holed up inside my
stuffy apartment with nowhere to go and nobody to go with. The
enforced idleness raised my anxiety level to a white-hot temperature;
I couldn't read or even sleep. The following Monday, I was back at
the office. This time, perhaps wisely, Mary Jo and Milton backed off.


Jury selection in the mayor's cocaine possession trial was finished,
and the first day of testimony was about to start. So much was at
stakefor me, for the paper, for the city.


The proceedings lasted throughout one of Washington's infamous
summers, in an atmosphere of tension between the mostly
white news media and Barry's mostly black supporters. The same
tensions were running through the <i>Post</i> newsroom; there were frequent
and heated disagreements among reporters and editors about
how to cast a story, the nuances of particular words, whether a particular
fact deserved prominent mention or not. There was also a
growing rift between Milton and Mary Jo, who sometimes conducted

[p. <i>243</i>]

I saw the mayor through my own peculiar lens: as a person who
so feared his own weakness that he could notsimply <i>could not</i>see
himself as he really was. Where others saw defiance against a justice
system racially oppressive to blacks, I saw cowardice. Whenever I
saw him jauntily waving to his supporters as if the trial were a campaign
rally, I felt anger, but it was mixed with shame. To the mayor,
I was just another representative of the white media establishment,
there to chronicle his humiliation. He had no idea how much we had
in common.


At the time, I noted all thismy own feelings, the tension
around methe way a sleepwalker might note the temperature. One
afternoon, on deadline, I sat at my computer terminal in the newsroom
writing a lead paragraph over and over; Milton wanted a "big-picture"
angle; Mary Jo wanted gritty specifics from that day's
testimony. After three or four rounds, I got up to get some coffee
and let them argue it out. "How many <i>Post</i> reporters does it take to
write a Barry story?" I joked later to my colleagues. "Only one. But it
takes at least three editors to move his fingers on the computer keys."
In some ways, detached was the best way to be.


The verdict came late on a Thursday afternoon in early August.
Foolishly, I had left the courthouse to wait at home for the cable-television
installation man, who arrived five minutes before the city
desk called. I left him in my apartment, doors unlocked, a signed
blank check on the kitchen table (fortunately, he was an honest person),

[p. <i>244</i>]

And then it was overthe daily deadline, the adrenaline jolts,
the whole social construct that had sustained me. It silently
imploded around me, and there was only Washington in August,
weeks of accrued comp time, and daily life. Thomas was off, somewhere
else, keeping company with someone else; I didn't know what
he was doing and didn't want to. I wanted to get away, but I had no
one to get away with. Even Eleanor was out of town for a few days.
Earlier in the summer, she had recommended that I stop taking the
lithium, and lately I had been pressuring her to let me stop taking
the imipramine, too. I was tired of its side effects and wanted to
change medications, and she had reluctantly agreed. We had been
slowly reducing the dosage in preparation for this, and now I was
down to almost no medication at all.


And then my friends Tim and Priscilla said, We are going to
Cape Cod for a month with the baby; come with us. Gratefully, I
fled.


This time, I never saw the Beast coming. I knew he was there,
but I imagined him caged or in retreat; the ferocity of his approach
was all the more stunning because I thought I was having a good

[p. <i>245</i>]

And then, on August 26the day before my thirty-fifth birthday
I left. I was conscious of feeling uneasy, as if I'd been sponging
on my friendsor, more precisely, living a prolonged and humiliating
adolescence, sleeping in my narrow bed while Tim and Priscilla
juggled family and friends and baby and in-laws, all the accoutrements
of adult life. When was <i>I</i> going to get to be a grown-up? I
wondered. And then the thought came to me that I should be more
self-sufficient; I should be traveling on my own, enjoying my own
company and being an independent woman of the world. I was
almost thirty-five years old, goddamnit; time to leave off the slumber
parties. I said an abrupt goodbye to Tim and Priscilla, rented a car at
Hyannis Port, drove to Woods Hole, and checked into a motel.


I had some vague thought of looking at the marine institute, but
in retrospect I realized that some evil, self-destructive urge had
drawn me to that place. Thomas had told me about a vacation he and

[p. <i>246</i>]

It was a crashnot the onset of a full-fledged major depressive
episode, but an acute period of mental pain, an intense, seventy-two-hour
version of the deadly despair of the previous winter. I had set
myself up for itdistracting myself with amusements, fleeing from
the surge of emotions that came with the end of a demanding assignment.
Now it dawned on me that I was alone in a strange place, that
I was still not well, that there was not a thing in Washington I
looked forward to returning to. And then, for the past week, I had
capped this off with strong, daily doses of alcohol. The gin-and-tonics
were a much deserved break, I told myself. It was my vacation; I
was entitled to relax. In fact, I wasn't relaxing at all, I was drugging
myself. The alcohol was an insult to a body chemistry already
severely out of balance.


This was not obvious to me at the time; for much of that week, I
had even been comfortable. Now, sitting in my pine-paneled motel
room, I felt myself hurtling once more into the abyss. The mental
pain was physical, as if the marrow of my bones were being ground
into dust. And that fierce loneliness was just the loneliness of the
moment; the loneliness of the years to come was a horror I could not
begin to describe. For me, it would always be this way, cut off from
the sweetness of human love. I would have given everything I had
for a chance at that love; I <i>had</i> given everything to Thomas and the
kids, and I had lost them. I had probably lost many other chances,

[p. <i>247</i>]

At that moment I would have settled for any human comfort,
any at all. A man, a woman, a childit didn't matter; this wasn't
about sex. Just a stranger's arm curled around my waist, naked flesh
against my own. Anything, for just one night.


I had already had one gin-and-tonic at the motel restaurant. Staring
at the bottle of imipramine I had with me (the leftover pills from
the prescription I was no longer taking), I thought about walking
down the street to the liquor store and buying enough of something
to finish the job. This was it, I thought, the counterattack the Beast
had been planning; this was the point at which I was going to negotiate
a full surrender. No more of this; no more fighting unwinnable
battles. I had given it my best, and I had lost. Tomorrow I would
be thirty-five. I had done a few things in my life, enough to feel it
hadn't been a waste. But if this was the pain I was going to have to
live with, it was time to exercise the choice I had already thought
about so clearly. It was time to quit.


The next thing that happened was a practical thought. I remembered
my safety plan. I was supposed to call people when this happened.


At first I called Thomas, at home. It was late then, about ten,
and after a few seconds it suddenly became clear to me from the tone
of his voice that he was not alone. I hung up. <i>How dare he? By God,
I'll make him pay for this</i>. I called back. "I just wanted to tell you that
you'll never hear from me again" I started, and he said, in cold
fury, "I want you to hang up now and quit calling me." <i>Click</i>.


I was past pain. I called Eleanor, and left a message on her
answering machine. I called my friend Arthur and we talked for a
while. I couldn't bring myself to tell him what I was really doing. I

[p. <i>248</i>]

"Get back to Washington," he said. This time I sensed he was
alone, but I did not dare ask. His voice sounded tight and strained,
still angry. I said I would, maybe in a day or so. I hung up. Then,
after another while, the phone rang again. It was Eleanor.


"Come home," she said, when I told her about the gin-and-tonics
and the bottle of imipramine I had on hand. "Right now. Immediately."


I took the first flight out in the morning. By midafternoon, I was
back in Washington, at the counter of my neighborhood pharmacy,
where Eleanor had phoned in a new prescription. I took the bottle
home with me, and at about four-thirty in the afternoon I swallowed
the first of the little green-and-white pills inside. It was Prozac.


How do you describe the gradual lessening of pain? How do you
describe the absence of something? The brain has no endorphins;
technically, it doesn't feel. And yet memory is a form of pain; even
recollections of happiness contain particles of grief, which we call
nostalgia. It is all the same thingbillions of neurons firing in a billionth
of a secondand when it stops, pain vanishes, and memory
with it.


A broken leg can be remembered and located: "It hurt right
below my knee, it throbbed, I felt sick at my stomach." But mental
pain is remembered the way dreams are rememberedin fragments,

[p. <i>249</i>]

The Prozac did what the imipramine and lithium had done
imperfectly: it altered, or restored, the fundamental functioning in
my brain. It didn't make me well. It made it possible for me to get
wellsomething that was now even likely, given the work I had
done and the medical therapy I was getting.


The first sign of this was not something that happened, but the
absence of something happening.


It was midafternoon, about three days after I started taking the
Prozac. I was sitting in my living room, reading a book, and this
thing happened in my brain: a moment of silence. The buzz in my
brain was there, and then it was not. I was a body floating to the surface
of the water, and then my face felt the air and I breathed, for the
first time in a long time, a long cool draft of oxygen. I did not hesitate
or think. I got up from the sofa, walked to the telephone, and
called Thomas.


"I'm not sure, and I may be imagining this," I said, "but I think
I am feeling better."


He chuckled. "That's the way these newer drugs work," he said.
"They can be very dramatic."


"Well, I thought you'd like to know," I said, and then I hung
up.


And that was it, for a long time. The buzz came back later that
day; the old hollow feeling returned. But then, a few days later, there
was another deep breath of cool air. Then another.


There was no lightning bolt, nothing in any way dramatic. I took
two more weeks off from work. I knew enough by now to be thoroughly
frightened by what had happened in Woods Hole, thoroughly
chastened and careful about myself. I treated myself as an

[p. <i>250</i>]

After two weeks I returned to work, and things were okay. I went
back to covering federal courtordinary stories mostly, some left-over
events from the Barry trial. The usual. September came and
went.


And then, one day in early October, I walked out of the court-house
at the end of the day, my mind occupied with something I had
to take back to the office and whether I should take the subway or
catch a cab. Then I thought: <i>Neither. I'll just walk back. I want to walk
in the sun</i>.


I felt a slight prickling of my skin; it felt nice. It was late afternoon,
the sun still well above the horizon. The leaves had begun to
turn. The air was warm, but there was a bustling breeze, and a hint
of the cool night to come, a balm after months of sticky heat. I was
standing on Indiana Avenue, facing west. Before me, the street
sloped down to meet Pennsylvania Avenue, a marble boulevard
where the edges of the buildings looked sharp, newly defined against
the clear autumn sky. The light was coppery. All these things I
noticed like a person just coming to consciousness after a long sleep.
It felt familiar; it reminded me of something that had happened
quite a while ago. (<i>The light through the windowMy mother's warm
arms around meI was laughing</i>.) Then I realized: this was pleasure,
this feeling. Ordinary pleasure.


<i>Hello, old friend</i>, my brain seemed to say. <i>Hello back</i>, I said. And
then I looked up into the busy air above mebright, turbulent, a
light-filled space reaching to infinity.

