TRANSCRIPT OF AUDIO FILE:
______________________________________________________________________________
BEGIN TRANSCRIPT:
CLIENT: So did you have a no-show?
THERAPIST: Why do you ask?
CLIENT: Well because you're on time. I thought I had a good five/ten minutes. Went to a wake yesterday.
THERAPIST: Oh?
CLIENT: Kind of freaky.
THERAPIST: Uh huh.
CLIENT: Got the body sitting there.
THERAPIST: Yep.
CLIENT: Everybody's chit-chatting like, you know. Freaky. It made me very sad, though. I don't know why. Leaving there I was very sad. My buddy's dad passed away last Thursday.
THERAPIST: Uh huh.
CLIENT: He just never woke up. So I figured I had to stop by or something. I really didn't want to go to the service or you know, any of the more social type events. I figured I show up at the wake; say "hi" to him; say "hi" to his sister, and sneak out the back door. That's pretty much exactly what I did. I like going over to watch the...I always watched the basketball game at his house on Friday because he's got a big huge TV, and he always has good food. I don't know if he's going to be in the mood to watch tonight's game. With this dude, you know, everybody would come over, you know. I don't have to watch the game or bring food. A Jewish friend of mine joked that we should [inaudible 02:22] for my dog. I think he was Jewish. 
I'm not sure how this came up; but the name just came up in an e-mail about various things, but Jess definitely wants to break up the firm. And I guess it aint such a bad idea, I think, you know. Well, for me it's a bad idea, you know. She wants to move towards this mediation crap, which is she's going to have her, you know, Mediation practice, whatever. But you know; I'm not going to have...not going to be able to cover stuff with her money like I've been able to do. But she's not going to be able to cover stuff with my money, you know. 
You know, just I've got to change everything—bank accounts, letterhead, business cards; just everything, you know. And I mean it was kind of a pain just changing a suite number, you know. I can imagine, you know. So it's like an effort...and the thing is it's an effort to save money; it's going to cost me thousands of dollars to do this, you know. I have to put a new name on my door. I'm sure they're going to charge me for that. Just you know...I don't know if she would still let me use the office. I mean I get the business all the time. 
That's the thing; it's that, you know, I got the business from interwebs because I had the office. So I don't know what we're going to do about that. I just had enough business that I could afford to have a second office. You know, but it's not the case. 
Like today; I just want to go in to that office and work. I don't want to go in. Got to pick up Ian from school. I told her; I said, let's wait until we get all this shit done with the condo and the house and the IRS. We've got too many fucking balls in the air, you know. I can't even deal with it right now. 
And then what do I do? What do I change the name of it to? You know? I mean none of them really sound like "Ew." I don't know. It just kind of sucks. I'm not sure why. It just sucks. I mean I, you know, she gets nothing out of it, you know.
The thing is, she gets stuff from the Internet that she doesn't realize she's getting from the Internet that she's not going to get. She doesn't know how to fucking balance a checkbook, you know; keep an eye on the account or do any of that stuff. She's never done anything for the business. You know, so. I don't know. 
You know it's her...it's nice having a partner.
THERAPIST: Yeah. 
CLIENT: So I don't know when everything's going to be resolved and when we're going to do this, but...
I took Ian to a birthday party on Sunday. You know he's running through the sprinklers. It's raining. I bring him home. He's soaking wet. She says, "How long has he been soaking wet?" "Since we got there." She gives me this look. I'm like, well what the fuck am I supposed to do. We're at a birthday party. What am I supposed to do, drive home and get him a change of clothes, bring him back so he just runs through the sprinklers again while it's raining? You know. It's like, her mom was there and I didn't say anything. I just; I'm tired of all these moments where, you know, I'm the bad guy and I haven't done anything wrong. You know. In her eyes I keep fucking all these things up and it's like, you know, I did nothing wrong. The kid was playing in the sprinklers. He didn't catch a cold. I mean he didn't get sick. It's a fucking playground. The sprinklers were on; he likes playing in the sprinklers. He got wet, you know. He never complained. He had a long sleeved shirt that he didn't want to wear, so he obviously wasn't cold. She's wearing on me. 
The toaster broke. I barely used that thing; it's broken. 
THERAPIST: That's too bad.
CLIENT: Yeah. Just kind of, I don't know, exemplifies everything. Can't find...they bought me a little speaker for my iPhone to listen in the car because my speakers don't work all the time; most of the time. I think a valet took it along with my charger because I can't find it anywhere in my car. Who would take a charger for an iPhone? I mean, how much do those cost?
THERAPIST: Around $20.
CLIENT: [Phone dings.] That's her right now with some pain in the ass request. Huh? Can I meet a client in your office on Friday? What is the suite number? [Laughs]
THERAPIST: That is funny.
CLIENT: She doesn't...she's not going to be able to find it. This will be classic. Just crazy. Argh! I'm not very social this weekend, if that's of concern to you. I went over to Karl's to watch the game on Saturday. I went to a brew-off on Saturday. Had a little bit too much to drink. Was unable to ride my bike home. They gave me a bike ride home. 
THERAPIST: They what?
CLIENT: Someone gave me a ride home.
THERAPIST: Oh okay.
CLIENT: I rode my bike over there.
THERAPIST: I got it. I thought you said they gave me a bike ride home. 
CLIENT: No. You know the beers were Belgian, which were high alcohol beer and it was like seven of them. And then I'd stupidly; I'd bring a four pack of Guinness. So I'd have at least three or four Guinness and then all these Belgian beers, and...I didn't black out though. 
THERAPIST: Good.
CLIENT: I just slept a little. But it's not like I puked all over myself or anything like that. I think I made the mistake of thinking that there was going to be food there where there was really just sort of snacks. Yeah, I probably should have eaten something before—something substantial before. But it was fun. 
I did that birthday party on Sunday. A kid on Ian's (ph) soccer team so I knew all the parents. They all call me Coach; like they're all adults.
THERAPIST: The grownups call you Coach?
CLIENT: Yeah. It's weird. 
THERAPIST: Oh really?
CLIENT: Yeah, so it's going to be just boys which is kind of good because the girls make me uncomfortable. They come up and they hug me and they sit in my lap and they, you know, in this day and age I don't need that.
THERAPIST: Yeah.
CLIENT: I'm like, "My hands are right here. See 'em. Maybe you should go see your mom. Go over there." 
THERAPIST: Yeah. 
CLIENT: But they actually have goalies...how many are on the field at a time, but...it's probably not a good day. I probably should take Ian out and play soccer with him. He needs to work on dribbling and...he wants to be a goalie. He needs to work on being a goalie using his hands, not just standing there turning and letting the ball hit him.
I took a picture of Buddy's box, his little paw print. They make a heart paw print. Put his name in it. And I posted it on Facebook and Barbara liked it. 
THERAPIST: Good.
CLIENT: She never met the dog. Apparently she's in to horses because last night she posted a bunch of pictures of horses; "Weekend with friends," or something like that. So she has a horse. And she went to the picnic, so I guess, horses.
THERAPIST: Right.
CLIENT: I still find it very weird. I don't know; awkward. You know it seems kind of silly how we get excited about something like that. Dozens of people like my stuff or put comments or you know, I have no; sometimes I'll post something and no one will comment on it. People do read them, but there's a bar in the Square called the [inaudible 16:37]. It used to [inaudible 16:38] which is a pretty infamous bar. They had all these signs up, you know, "We don't have the best burgers in town. We don't have fresh seafood." You know, "Our servers are ugly," and you know mean or whatever. And then at the very...they had like six of these signs and at the very bottom it said, "Go fuck yourself, we're at capacity." And someone else posted that, so I reposted it and I get one comment. So I was kind of surprised, especially because there are people that I've gone to the place with, you know. It makes me want to put up. 
I feel like there's something I should be doing proactive, you know; that I should ask this woman out on a date or something like that, but I guess number one I'm worried if she says no I guess is the big thing. We play on the same Handball team and that's kind of awkward. She's 12 years younger than me. That's kind of awkward. I come off as kind of like the creepy old guy. I don't know. I guess; I think I'm...I convinced myself I'm better off suffering at a distance than having rejection you know. 
I've always kind of been like that though, where I do not do things out of fear of rejection. I don't know. Maybe one night I'll have some liquid courage and...
THERAPIST: Well you tend to run yourself down pretty good.
CLIENT: I'm good at that. 
THERAPIST: Yeah.
CLIENT: I know my faults, most of them. There are a few that Jess thinks I have that I don't agree with. But the physical ones are obvious. I can't help it, you know. I just; I just, the more I ate last night, the hungrier I got. First I had like a turkey sandwich, and then I had a bag of brussel sprouts. You know Trader Joe's has like Brussel Sprouts. You just throw them in the microwave and I should have cut them in half. But anyways, you would think the turkey sandwich and an entire bag of brussel sprouts would fill a human being up, but I just got hungrier. And so I had another turkey sandwich—literally just turkey on bread.
THERAPIST: Yeah.
CLIENT: And was still hungry after that. Then I had a big bowl of cereal. It was Go Lean though, so. I woke up this morning and my stomach was kind of pissed off with all the fiber I ate.
THERAPIST: Yeah, the Go Lean will do it.
CLIENT: Between the bread, the brussel sprouts, and the Go Lean which I added flax seeds to.
THERAPIST: Oh really? Wow. 
CLIENT: Yeah, so. That's weird. And I was even hungry. I went to bed hungry. And I just don't know. I know I've got to eat less. And I know, it's like, probably if I ate more meals throughout the day it would make a difference, you know, but I don't. 
THERAPIST: It's like is it all emotional?
CLIENT: What do I do about that? Apparently there's that stuff I can just sprinkle on my food and I lose weight. You haven't seen the commercials for that? 
THERAPIST: No.
CLIENT: You sprinkle it right on and you don't have to change your eating habits. You don't have to exercise. That's got to work. 
THERAPIST: I don't; you do this sort of class clown thing to avoid responsibility.
CLIENT: Taking responsibility for what? Being fat?
THERAPIST: For whatever it is that we happen to be talking about before I say something that you then respond to that way.
CLIENT: I've got a captive audience. 
THERAPIST: Absolutely. Which means what? How does the captive audience relate? 
CLIENT: That means you can't, you know, turn and walk away. You've got to listen to my jokes.
THERAPIST: Are you saying your jokes are like a form of punishment? Is that what you're saying? It's not what I'm saying. They're funny a lot of times.
CLIENT: It's not that they're a form of punishment, but you know, I've got a captive audience. You know, I would do this to anybody who was stuck listening to me. Not to say that they would not enjoy it, but what I don't understand is what responsibility I was avoiding.
THERAPIST: Well, what I had just said before you brought up...
CLIENT: Was that I'm eating for emotional reasons.
THERAPIST: Right.
CLIENT: And so I was thinking, well, is there some kind of pill I could take for that. And then the first thing that popped in my mind was the commercials where they just sprinkle shit on food and...that's just how my mind works. You hadn't figured that out yet?
THERAPIST: Well, that seems to be all of it; to be sort of looking away from the emotions that are contributing to your being hungry.
CLIENT: Are there certain emotions that contribute to hunger more than others? Sadness?
THERAPIST: Different things for different people. My money is on sadness for you.
CLIENT: Wanting. Is that really an emotion or is that a combination of emotions?
THERAPIST: I think you're talking about loneliness.
CLIENT: No, wanting, you know. Wanting to be successful. Wanting this woman. Wanting not to be alone. You know, wanting. Wanting things to be different. It's like the...Karl's dad; his obituary was like he was a pilot. He was an engineer. You know just on and on and on; just all these things they did. I went and met his sister, I said, "You know that was some obituary." And they were like, "Yeah, they had to cut out a lot of stuff." I was like are you kidding me? The guy, I mean; where is a human being...and I'm thinking of myself. It's like what have I done? You know. He's a class clown. You know, what are they going to list? He's got two kids. He plays Handball. He was a lawyer. He volunteers once a month for the poor people in housing court. I'm on the board of a co-op. I've got stuff like that, but not, I mean this is the longest obituary I read for someone who wasn't famous. I don't feel like I've done something, you know; like there's something I say...no accomplishment you know. Wanting, again, you know. 
THERAPIST: How do you feel for...like you haven't done something?
CLIENT: What do you mean? 
THERAPIST: Well I understand that one way you feel is you want that; you want to have done some of those sorts of things. But I'm saying or asking without that are you saying you feel like you failed? Are you saying you just feel sad? Are you saying you feel empty?
CLIENT: Yeah, I feel, you know. But it really all kind of turns back to fear, you know. I fear not having business. It all comes back to my business. These accomplishments and things would help my business, but I'm still just terrified of July and what business am I going to have in July? I know this is a crappy weekend, but we're in to June now and all the deals for July should start getting under agreement over the next couple of weeks. I'm just fearful that that's not going to happen. 
THERAPIST: I see.
CLIENT: That's why I fear the breakup of the firm for that very reason, you know. I use Jess's money to pay my rent. Where I was supposed to take it and pay her estimated taxes which are due June 15th. And I've got two closings on the 15th, but we'll see how the inspection goes today. But there is one closing on the 15th. Another closing tomorrow. June is actually going to be a good month. I may actually get enough money to pay a month of rent instead of being behind three months, I'll be behind two months which would be nice; it would be nice if I could catch up. My dad just sent me $600 and told me not to expect any more money for the rest of the year. What are you thinking?
THERAPIST: Well, this is something else you do in addition to the class clown thing is you get like really anxious and almost kind of compulsive when you talk about money and work. I know it's scary stuff. I'm not saying the reality is not terrifying. I know that it is, but there's something; it's not just that, there's something else going on with the way...you sort of go in to this litany of okay well this is happening this time and this is causing this. But I'm worried about that, and I don't know about this. I keep trying to be very concrete and either run through the whole like litany of what's coming in when and what you owe and how much it is and where this is going and what you could be doing and what's going to happen next month, and what's going on with this account. You shift. It takes on this very different kind of quality how you talk. And I'm not quite sure what's going on there. It may be like you; I mean you're clearly very very anxious when you're doing that, but I don't think what you're most anxious about actually is usually the money while you're doing that, to tell you the truth. It may have more to do with like, it's going to be a little cute, but like feeling kind of emotionally bankrupt. 
CLIENT: That's not cute. You used that term before. 
THERAPIST: I think it's cute because it pulled together the like emotional part of the worry about money.
CLIENT: Oh I get it. 
THERAPIST: But I...
CLIENT: You were trying to make a point.
THERAPIST: No, I wasn't trying. I think it all actually fits together like that, but it's pretty serious stuff. I didn't mean to make light of it. I mean you started to talk about the things you want and I said how do you feel for not having the things that you want and that's when you immediately went back to, you know, here's the situation with the money and here's this and here's that, and I just got this and this one looks good, but I don't know about next month. And then Jess with the business and I don't know what's going to happen with that. And I'm not trying to say that money isn't a terrifying reality. I know that it is. But I think your whole sort of tone and mindset shifts when you talk about it and you get sort of compulsive and listy in a way that you don't really sound when you're talking about other things. And you certainly sound very anxious, but I think it's not probably anxiety at that moment isn't just or even mostly about the worries about money.
CLIENT: Hmm.
THERAPIST: It may have more to do with, you know, feeling like you don't have anything emotionally somehow, like accomplishments or relationships that you're convening or something, whatever that's like for you; something like that. 
CLIENT: Well that's uplifting. 
THERAPIST: Yeah.
CLIENT: The only thing left is for me to be morally bankrupt. We haven't gone down that road yet, but.
THERAPIST: No, not yet.
CLIENT: But there's time. 
THERAPIST: I think that maybe what it is with the money. It's like I think you sort of—in a way that I don't understand very well at the moment—I think you don't feel equipped to look at the emotional stuff going on. I think it really overwhelms you. I think you feel really at sea about it...
CLIENT: What do I do?
THERAPIST: What comes to mind? 
CLIENT: I don't know. Confronting my fears. Going through that. You know even as I was walking out of the bank and I was thinking, you know, about the relationship with the people in the banks. I never sent them "thank you" notes, but I did kind of refer someone to the loan officer. I don't know if they ever connected because I said you know; let me know if you connect. But you know, I just give up. I walked out of there and I thought about things I would have to do and I just feel like giving up. Oh well; if it happens it happens, if it doesn't, it doesn't. I feel like I'm at a point with my business that I just, you know, I don't know where to turn. I'm tired of meeting mortgage guys and loan officers and realtors and just, you know, doing it over and over again and getting nothing out of it. And it's like I felt like, and when I got the office back, I felt like that was a huge break for me. I thought I was just being...I didn't realize it at the time how stupid I was being about the finances. I mean I was making too much money to declare bankruptcy. You know, I should have been handling the finances differently. But the money was coming in and you know, I had multiple sources and just I wish I had that again. It would make my life so much easier. I'd be busy. I'd be running around. I probably wouldn't be able to play as much Handball.
THERAPIST: Right.
CLIENT: But you know, I would be...you know, there are probably two things that would change my life drastically. Number one would be for business to really pick up to a normal pace or be in a relationship. 
THERAPIST: Yeah. 
CLIENT: Those are the two things that would change my life. I don't know what else is out there. And I don't know what to do to achieve either of those. I'm terrified of Match.com, having to profile myself. It's like I can't even afford, really, to date anyone, you know, go out and go to the movies or dinner. I would have to find someone who is completely understanding of my situation, which I don't know how I'm going to find that person. 
THERAPIST: You tend to assume that other people are so much, including me for one, are so much more together. 
CLIENT: I hope they are. 
THERAPIST: But I think you use that sometimes as a way of sort of not taking risks. You assume that like, "Oh, I'm such a this, and I'm such a that." It's just the other thing. An implication. And everybody else like someone would really have to be understanding and take pity on me, or like such and so are so much more together and on top of things, that it...I think it gives you a bit of an out, you know. 
CLIENT: I just don't feel like I have the capacity to do the things I need to do, you know. I mean I think part of the reason, other than rejection and ridicule aside, that I don't approach this woman. I don't know that that's the right thing, you know.
THERAPIST: Sure.
CLIENT: It's like I don't know; you know even if she did say yes and it didn't work out, you know, I don't know. I barely know anything about this person.
THERAPIST: Sure. I'm not trying to tell you what to do or saying that there aren't reasonable reasons for not pursuing her. I'm just saying that I think it's something that you feel in here in relation to me and something that you feel in relation to other people that you're kind of not together or a mess in one way or another, or various other things. And I think making that kind of split, you know, in some ways is sort of a blessing and a curse. Like I think there's a way in which it helps because it feels like it sort of gives you an excuse to not take certain kinds of risks. I'm probably not talking as much in your recent life, but in your life before when you were feeling better. You know, with women or I know you've talked about being kind of inhibited about...but it also makes you feel crummy and does get in the way of your being able to get things you want and that you feel good about, I think. I don't know if I'm being... 
CLIENT: No, I understand. 
THERAPIST: We should stop for now. 
END TRANSCRIPT
