Transcript of Audio File:
______________________________________________________________________________
BEGIN TRANSCRIPT:
THERAPIST: Come on in. How are you?
CLIENT: I'm fine.
THERAPIST: Good
CLIENT: Tuesday nights I just don't sleep. It's official. I can't get myself - I have a block when I know I have to wake up early for something, that I can't fall asleep. It's like the anxiety of waking up is getting to me. Chris has his last final today and we both tried to go to bed at 9:30 last night because we were going to wake up at 5:30 because I had to go to the gym, and neither of us slept. I felt so bad because he was tossing and turning and kept waking me up and I smacked him at one point. I thought, "This is a preview into when we have kids," because you always hear people say in their sleepless nights you're so mean to each other — I wasn't really mean to him — but I could just feel us getting irritated with each other even without talking. It was kind of funny. Today is his last final and I got really emotional yesterday about it and I was really sad. I just have such a hard time with transition. I get really sentimental and nostalgic and there is part of me during the day that was like, "Oh, my God, tomorrow we're just going to be able to go home together and hang out together and know what that looks like." I don't know what that's like, and I was so excited and I thought, "We can start playing tennis more and we can go for walks. We can make dinners together and do all this stuff," and then the other (inaudible at 02:35.3)
is terrified like, "Oh, my God, are we going to go crazy? We're only used to . . . " I don't know. And then I get so sad to leave our apartment. We're not going to have our own place for five months, and that's going to be hard. I'm just really nervous for that. He was like, "There are things to be excited about." And it's true, there are tons of things to be excited about but I'd feel so much more excited, because one of the things I'm excited about is moving into our new place. I'm really excited to do that, but that's not happening for five months and in between then I don't do well with not having a home base. Know we're going to stay at Emma and James's and then were going to stay at my parents', but those temporary things for five months make me feel very flustered and on edge. I need a place to go and just power down and be in my space. When I come home and it's just me by myself, I always need that for a few minutes. When I come home and Chris's there, he wants to talk immediately. I come home and he's been alone all day not talking to anybody and I've been with babies who don't stop talking, and so I need at least 10 minutes to just not talk. If I come home and he's not there, I'm in heaven. I'm delighted, and then I'm a little annoyed when he comes home. It's not his fault. If he comes home too early, like he walks in the door right after me, I'm a little annoyed. He can sense I'm annoyed so he gets mad. My point is that I'm just nervous about that when I know that I'm not going to have the opportunity to do that in these situations. I'll have my space in whatever room that is ours, but I'm nervous about it. There are things I know I need for myself and I'm just worried about how I'm going to get them. I'm just sad to leave. I'm really sad to leave. 05:19.00
THERAPIST: Do you think it will be hard to stop in here, too?
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: Maybe we should talk about that.
CLIENT: Yeah. I've just kind of come to rely on it as how I work through all the stuff that just gets stuck in my head. And so even though I've been looking into people in Concord. My brother's going to see somebody who I actually found for him. She sounds like a good match, but that sounds really scary to me because it's starting over and (pause) I just know that this is something that I need to do for myself and so it's just become part of my routine. I don't do well with having all these things — just like having the rug pulled out from under me it feels like a little bit. I know that's the wrong way to phrase that, but I feel like I'm going to be losing a lot of consistencies. I want to have it, like an adjustment. Like I'm having a week when they start camp but I'm still staying here and so they'll go to camp and then I'll pick them up in the afternoon. We have like a trade-off period, like an adjustment. I want an adjustment period. (laughs) I don't want a week here and a week there and a week doing my stuff here and a week . . . I want to have it all co-mingle, and that's obviously impossible. [00:07:38] (pause) The thing about ending here is that it's not like I'm going to stop going to therapy. I'm going to still go see somebody, but I have a hard time getting into a group. I had a hard time getting into a group here where I felt like I knew what to do even. That sounds probably silly, but I just didn't know and that's different with new people. That's going to take some time for me. The funny thing is I was talking to my friend, Emma, yesterday. She's having a hard time going through some stuff and so she came over with her kids that she nannies for. We were just chatting and she was saying, because they're talking about moving back to California, and she said, "We're just going to have a really hard time moving back to California knowing that's the last place that we're going to go to. We're staying put there," and I was thinking, I think that's where me, as far as going to New Hampshire, is that the idea of going to New Hampshire and staying there and not leaving, staying put there, is a big thing of what's scaring me. At the same time, I have such a hard time with transition, so I try and tell myself that . . . I don't know. It's hard because I have a really hard time with transition and I have a really hard time with awhile after - usually like a couple of months. It's hard for me, but then I never want to leave. Whenever I start feeling settled, I don't want to leave. I don't know what that is. It may be because I don't want to do that process again. I don't want to go but I'm always happy once everything is settled. I guess that's probably just normal. Nobody likes uprooting, or maybe I'm sure there are some people that do, but . . . I don't know. It's just these conflicting feelings. 00:11:04
THERAPIST: Is there something about the transition period where you feel like a more permanent place won't come?
CLIENT: Yeah. It feels like I won't feel settled here. Yeah, like this uncertainty. Part of it with my moves to Maryland and California and here, I was just really afraid of cities. We didn't go to cities when I was a kid. We didn't really go much of anywhere when I was a kid, and so cities really scared me. I felt really intimidated by them and kind of (inaudible at 00:11:46) [tight]. Like everybody out [mean]. I was just really intimidated by the whole thing and I didn't now where to go, I didn't know where things were. The fast pace and a lot of the things about cities were unsettling to me. And now I love it. I absolutely love it. So now I'm afraid to not live in the city. I feel adjusted here and I don't know if I'm going to feel that adjusted and comfortable back in New Hampshire and the idea of going back to California feels comfortable because I know everything and I know everything in Concord. I don't know why, obviously, but I have this feeling like I normally don't go any deeper than being nervous. For me, I don't go any deeper with that feeling. I don't go, "What am I nervous about?" I'm nervous about our space — not having a space for Chris and I. I'm nervous about feeling unsettled. Feeling discombobulated, not in a rhythm like, "This is where we go grocery shopping. This is where I get my knitting supplies. If I want to take a class, this is where I book. This is my yoga studio," things like that. Obviously, those things can come pretty quickly. If I'm committed to doing that, I can make those things happen pretty quickly, and that's what I guess I just need to do. I need to identify those are things that make me feel comfortable and so establishing routines and establishing places that I feel are mine, that's what's important to me. That's what I need to take care of. 00:14:12
And then Chris and I have a routine. There are some things that he and I do, like Sundays, we take walks. There are certain places we like to walk, and doing that in New Hampshire, too, I'd miss those things that I need to do. (pause) My brothers are possibly both going to be living at our mom's house also. I don't know if I really talked about that. My brother, Fred, was living at my cousin's condo, but he's going to school full time and he's working full time and he's 19 and it's hard. He couldn't get ahead. He couldn't save enough money so he's moving back for the summer and he's trying to figure out. (laughs) He's a little bit flakey. He said he had a place lined up but then I don't know. So now he is going to probably move into on-campus housing in the fall, so he'll probably be in the upstairs guest room. My brother, John, and his girlfriend are breaking up and they will finish their lease in the summer. He wants to put his stuff in storage and bounce around for the summer, stay with some friends at our property, stay at my mom's. But he's also going to be taking classes and so I know that if he's going to be getting work done and I need to get work done, he's going to be at my mom's. Oh, my God, this one is so much. This sounds like so much. The idea makes me really unsettled.
THERAPIST: Your older brother staying there? 00:16:48
CLIENT: It's going to feel like that creates a level of drama. It brings a level of uncertainty. He and I aren't necessarily the best combo together at all times. He just has a way sometimes of bringing a level of tension. With that, I can tell when he's starting to get smirky and I am either the target of the smirkiness or I'm supposed to be in on it. I don't like either of them. That boundary is much easier to establish if we are in our own space. A lot of times when we come and we stay for weekends at my mom's if he ends up crashing there, if we either end up staying at my mom's or he stay there too because we're all there and everybody's around or we stay with him and that means we're all coming and going all together kind of as a unit, and those kind of patterns start. Obviously, I'm fully capable of trying — I don't know — it's a matter of exercising that. 00:18:29
THERAPIST: How long will you be there for?
CLIENT: At my mom's? All of July. August we go away for 10 days and then the last week of July and the first week of August for a (inaudible at 00:18:46). Ten days, and Chris's gone all of August. He'll be in California still, and then September. Our place should be done either October 15<sup>th</sup> or November 1<sup>st</sup>, and with construction I'm just assuming November 1<sup>st</sup>, because these things tend to take longer. July, August, September, October — four months, with some breaks in between.
THERAPIST: Do you want to know my thought?
CLIENT: It's a terrible idea? 00:19:23
THERAPIST: It's a recipe for disaster. You could probably get a short-term sublet. There are a lot of students up there, aren't there? I know that money is a huge issue, but you could probably get a relatively inexpensive sublet.
CLIENT: I know.
THERAPIST: It sounds like a recipe for disaster.
CLIENT: I know. It's just talking Chris into it.
THERAPIST: Talking Chris into a sublet?
CLIENT: Yeah, because he's going to say, "Why are we going to spend the money when we could be saving that money at your parents' house?" (pause) 00:20:10
THERAPIST: Well, you'll be spending extra money on your extra therapy.
CLIENT: (laughs) Right? I should look into it. The thing is I kind of agree for at least through August because, honestly, if we're both gone — my parents are gone for a week in July and we're leaving the last week in July — there's really only two weeks in July. And if Chris's gone all of August, it doesn't make sense for me to have a place just by myself.
THERAPIST: Except it might be worse for you there when Chris's not there.
CLIENT: That's true. But I'm also going to — I forgot to ask you — I'm also going to be coming up here for a week in August, because the family I work for now needs care for a week, so I'm going to come up and stay with Emma and James for a week in August, so maybe just September and October. 00:21:14
THERAPIST: I was going to say staying at your parents off and on for two months not being there weeks at a time is a lot different than it being four months. And you're working for them, too, or with them.
CLIENT: For July and August. And then giving (inaudible at 00:21:48) after work.
THERAPIST: I hope I'm not one to typically give advice because it's not my place, so I guess I'm afraid to honestly tell you what to do. Sort of think about [ ] (inaudible at 00:22:16) want it to be.
CLIENT: [ ] And I do have this goal that if my mom and I can sit down and have an honest and open discussion, it will alleviate some of this tension I feel; the reason the tension exists between all of us. My brother, John, is looking into staying at my cousin's — the place my other brother, Fred, used to split - so if he is living there, that would make me feel a lot better. (pause) But I should look into sublets, because if we could even get a studio for $600 it would make a difference. I met with a woman, Sadie, the little girl I watch, her preschool teacher who is moving as well and starting a preschool group, I met with her last week and the meeting went really well. I was explaining some of my concerns to her regarding licensing, insurance, what we do if a kid gets hurt, and that kind of thing, and she said that in the past they just had a waiver already set up that every parent signs initially. She's potentially looking into a bigger place so that we could use part of her home as where we run it out of, which would make me feel better because then we could get licensed and that's something that makes me real nervous. I would just hate for something to happen. With little kids, you just have to be really careful. I would hate for something to happen and then a parent takes some sort of action and the state finds out and then . . . anyway . . . So that was my big concern. She wants to either have a space connected to her home or rent a space, which makes me feel much more comfortable because we could then get something off that. She and I share the same philosophy about running these kinds of groups, kids that age, and she was on the same thought. She said she worked with this one person who said like, "They're kids. They need to climb on stuff and experiment." She was saying, "Not on my watch. We're careful. We're safe and we do it with [ ]," (inaudible at 00:25:15) which made me feel good because I'm safety conscious. She said that she runs it really similar to a preschool. She asked me why I'm leaving. She has circle time and she has this curriculum all written out for it. It sounded really great. I really liked her and we clicked and had a really nice meeting. It sounded perfect. She can't start til September. She wants to do part mornings, four days a week. The age is an age I'd really like — three and four year olds. It sounds really great, and so we're going to start putting feelers out for people on the Internet and seeing if there's a need for it. I'm wildly excited about it. The other part of it, too, is that I can still keep working on my idea for my baby concierge business that I was thinking about. It all sounded really kind of perfect and I was really excited. It sounds more appealing to do something like that. If I'm big and pregnant also, my idea was working out a breakfast restaurant or coffee shop or something. It doesn't sound logistically like it would really work, because I'm going to be waking up at four in the morning. Say that we do get pregnant, that just doesn't sound like it may be the best idea. It sounds like working four mornings a week from 8:30 to 12:30 is the situation I'm really comfortable with and familiar with - with a really sweet woman that I really like - that sounds like something that I could do and something that makes sense for me. I was so happy thinking about it that even though I don't have a college degree, I've stuck with something consistently for the last ten years that makes me able to do something like this where I have another person approaching me saying, "Would you want to do this with me?" I felt like that makes me really happy. I was waitressing and bouncing around from job to job. I have a common line throughout my last ten years that makes it possible to do things like this and I was really so happy this was the case. It felt like a moment where this has paid off. This is all paying off, and especially if this, the woman that I was talking to, she has this dream of owning her own preschool and eventually starting off this way and maybe working towards, and I thought that would be so cool. How cool. She wants to run the curriculum. I want to run more of the checks and balances. She said, "I don't feel comfortable with finances. I don't feel comfortable taking the checks from parents, keeping track of who paid, cutting a check." I feel really comfortable doing that. I want to take a small business management course. I feel really comfortable doing that.
THERAPIST: Credit cards on file and you just charge whoever you want to.
CLIENT: I don't know, but I'm a control freak. If there's a little section of this that I'm taking care of, that would make me feel really good. I'm really excited.
THERAPIST: What makes you sad about that?
CLIENT: No, I'm not even sad. Sometimes I just cry because I'm just emotional. I don't think I'm sad. I think that was just . . . I guess . . . . maybe I'm sad because I think it sounds kind of silly. But it makes me feel so happy.
THERAPIST: What's so silly about it?
CLIENT: I still only had a year of day care. Like "What are you so excited about?" But it's something that I'm really excited about. It's also a little crazy - these two arguing points in my head. Sometimes I feel silly for getting so excited about something like that.
THERAPIST: Why is that silly?
CLIENT: (pause) That it's just a day care. Even though I was proud of myself that I had this continual line, it's still like riding June's coat tails because June has her degree and she has her masters. I kind of feel like I'm hopping on a carpet ride. Part of me even feels silly just saying these things because I feel kind of like I'm cheating; I'm getting away with something. My friend, Emma, was saying, "You'd have to go back to school and at least get your [IA] (sp?) right?" And I was like "Why would I need to do that?" I don't know why I would need to do that. And she was like, "Well, but if you guys get accredited and if you're getting licensed. . . " I was like "Well we'll get licensed as a day care. You don't need to have any sort of degree to have a day care." She was like "Further down the road if you do do preschool and you do get accredited won't all the teachers need to have it?" I was like, "Don't worry about that. That would be years down the line." If that's the case, we'll worry about it then. But that's silly. That's what I hear. 00:33:00
THERAPIST: What do you feel you'd be getting away with?
CLIENT: I'd be cheating because if I was calling myself a preschool teacher, most preschool teachers have degrees. I feel like I'd be lying. (pause) I need to get over that because I'm not, obviously. I think part of it is that my friend, Emma, just got her master's; she wants to teach kindergarten, and she just completed her master's program to do that. I think maybe for her there was maybe a little bit of our things would be not like so close but related at least. I'd be running a preschool group and she'd be teaching kindergarten and she's gone through college and has her masters to do that. I think maybe that's where she was coming from and maybe why she said it. This was the other thing I was saying last week. We'll have circumstances you can't do that personally unless you have a child, so I'm trying not to take that personally but it struck a chord, an already sensitive chord with me because it's already something that I feel less-than about. It was kind of like, "Yeah, I would need to do that, wouldn't I?" When I think about it I do think for the most part of it she was being just curious or she was just because of her circumstance in a really similar, I mean the same field. But it's hard for me. I really feel insecure about school and I already feel like my friends call my nannying job "babysitting" and things like that so I already feel like . . . I kind of snapped at my friend, Judy, who is so sweet, last week. She's the one who always calls it babysitting. And she's like, "Okay, are you just leaving babysitting, now?" And I said, "Nannying, Judy, it's nannying. You can just say work if you don't want to say that." I felt bad afterwards. But I've already told her. I've explained to her. I know she doesn't do it intentionally but when you've already said it to somebody and when she hears me say it, I know. It's not intentional. She doesn't mean to do it and I felt bad afterwards for snapping. I already feel like, in regards to me, my friends sort of degrade the things I'm doing because I don't have a degree. That's just kind of our society. Everybody goes to college now. I don't think it's necessarily their fault, I just think they associate degree with career and if you don't have that . . . I don't know. 00:37:31
THERAPIST: Does Steve Jobs have a college . . .
CLIENT: (laughs) No. . . My logical brain knows these things. The emotional side of my brain is really a powerful thing and it takes over. It just kind of runs the ship sometimes. (pause)
THERAPIST: You feel inadequate and you feel put down.
CLIENT: Right. (pause) and it's not their fault that I have these feelings of inadequacy. What should happen in the moment if I feel that way, I should explain it in a kind of neutral tone, but I have a really hard time doing that. That's a challenge for me. I have a hard time expressing myself without letting my emotions take over. It's something that I really need to work on and something that I've been trying to clear the air from all these past hurts and stuff in my relationships. Those are a huge part of it that don't allow me to be necessarily neutral when I have moments that are kind of slights. Before there was already this kind of tension. I feel like I have a harder time with smaller things. What I've been trying to do is maybe clear the air then allowing going forward to say that's kind of not gone but leveled. Allowing to say more neutrally and calmly, "That kind of bugs me and rubs me the wrong way because . . . " I'm trying to get there but it's really hard for me. (chuckles) But I really need to work on that. I also need to work on just thinking that everybody's cutting me down. That's a big character trait from my family. Everyone in my family just thinks people are cutting them down on both sides of my family. And it's something I really take with me.
THERAPIST: Well it's confusing, because often they are. 00:40:17
CLIENT: That's the other thing. But my friends aren't. And maybe if they are, it's not in the same degree. For the most part they just say stuff and they just say it a lot of times because they come from a different place. They aren't trying to be mean, but I take it as a loaded thing or like, "Oh, that's how you see me? Oh, you view me this way?" And sometimes maybe it is, but for the most part they're just things people say. They don't really cut. I have a hard time remembering that in the moment. (pause) My friendships have gotten better since all my discussions have happened, which has been really nice. It's been relaxing and then I can feel more supported and the friendships feel better. They feel more genuine. I know it was all coming from me before. I don't think that a lot has changed necessarily for the other people in the situation — maybe it has — but a lot of that was coming from my end. I couldn't be a very good friend. If you're not being a very good friend, then your friends aren't going to be very good friends to you is how I feel. I feel like I've kind of opened up. I was reading this book on friendship. I'm obsessed with female friendship; (chuckles) not obsessed, but thinking a lot about it. [00:43:22] My uncle — sorry, I'm like all over the place — but my uncle I wrote him a month ago to check on the status of our property up North, and the remainder of the funds of mine that he is still in control of, and he said that a month ago, "Alright, I'm just going to send you the rest of the money," and then I didn't hear from him for a month. He has the money in savings, but I need to buy a car, I need to move, I need to do all these things. It just wasn't coming and I was feeling so annoyed like, "Why am I asking your permission? Why do I feel like I'm asking you for money? Why do I feel like I have to jump through all these hoops?" I was annoyed with my grandmother like, "Either give us the money or don't, but don't make me chase it down." It just felt belittling. I felt like a little kid begging for money from my uncle. I felt like he was questioning my money-management skills and it just felt so awkward to me. I felt like, "What is this?" I wrote him yesterday saying, "Really freaking out," and he just wrote me back immediately and said, "Alright, what's your address? I'll send it." All this build-up of I hate this. I hate feeling this way. I hate asking. I hate this, that and the other, and that was so easy. But it still felt like I was asking for something that wasn't mine. It's such a relief that he's sending the check and we're going to have the money; but I still feel like he [ ]. (inaudible at 00:45:11) The whole thing felt degrading to me. I felt like, as my brothers would say, "I just don't get it for you." I get it. My brother, Fred, who is in IT now, I was just down there this weekend, was saying, "You know, I get for me why I'm just not giving it away like a 19-year-old kid. It's probably not the greatest idea for me to have thousands of dollars deposited in my bank account, but I don't get it for you. You're in your twenties and married. Why can't they just give you money?" And I was like, "No shit." (chuckles) That's how I feel. Anyway, it's all resolved now, hopefully. I mean, yeah, hopefully he sends the check. [ ] (inaudible at 00:46:09)
THERAPIST: We're going to need to stop for today. I'll see you on Monday. Take care.
CLIENT: Thank you. You, too.
END TRANSCRIPT
