Transcript of Audio File:
______________________________________________________________________________
BEGIN TRANSCRIPT:
THERAPIST: Where should we start today?
CLIENT: So I decided to go to the bridal shower.
THERAPIST: Okay. How did you come to your choice?
CLIENT: Basically because at dinner Vincent was over and Vincent had been at [inaudible] with Aimee and Doreen. And he said and Aimee agreed that if I didn't go Doreen would see it as an insult and would retaliate way out of proportion. So - as opposed to retaliating by not coming to my bridal shower someday which would be wonderful. She'd take it as a personal insult and stuff and it's not even because she likes me but because of control.
But also apparently Cullen was upset about the fact that yesterday there was meet each other parent's thing, which I did not go to, and I guess because my mom had told him that I had rehearsal - because my mom had told me that I didn't have to go to this thing and I was like okay, good. But my brother's were like well if she really cared she would skip rehearsal, which actually it turns out no, I had a concert which I really could not skip because I'm the only Tenor. So, at this point, yes, if I ever have a concert, I cannot skip it at least until they get new women next semester, if we get new women next semester.
I don't know, but it's not like Cullen likes me either. I guess he just wants me to care about him but he always acts like a jerk to me. So I don't get why he would want me to be around other than to be a jerk to me. He's never - maybe he'll manage it for a few minutes, but he's never for a full hour or for a full conversation or for a full day managed to not be a jerk to me. [00:02:03]
THERAPIST: That's unfortunate.
CLIENT: Yes. And the way I deal with people who are jerks is by avoiding them because that way I don't have to be a jerk back. I can just avoid them.
THERAPIST: It is harder when it's family.
CLIENT: Yes. So, even though Cullen - though maybe - I don't know if Cullen is going to be at the bridal shower. I'm not sure if it's coed, but and also because I had told them all that I had rehearsal at 1:00 but the bridal shower starts at 10 in the morning, which is really early. And also it turns out it's being thrown by Doreen's mom. So the whole thing is kind of ridiculous. And why would anyone start a bridal shower at 10 in the morning, on a Sunday morning? Sunday mornings are meant for people to sleep in or something. Or go to church if they go to church. And the whole time all we're going to is sit around and watch Doreen open up presents. And my mom's like oh well your cousins will be there. But these are my cousins who are my mom's age, and I'm just like that's not really going to help me, mom. That doesn't make this any more enjoyable. I don't have anything against those cousins but I have nothing in common with them. They're my mom's friends; they're not my friends. If it were the cousins who are my age it would be one thing but it isn't.
THERAPIST: It's not really about you.
CLIENT: No, but why did she invite me then? Meanwhile I haven't even gotten the invitation yet so for all I know maybe I won't get an invitation which I would decide means I wasn't invited. But, yes, I'm going to ask if I can bring Sydney along to make it less horrible because otherwise I think I will go insane. That's a four-hour event or something. But it just sucks that I have to go. It really sucks that the reason I have to go is because Doreen will do something evil to me if I don't. [00:04:18]
I don't want her to have that kind of power. But I can't expect her to be reasonable because she doesn't really have the ability to be reasonable. So I can't really go over to her and say I don't want you to have this power over me Doreen. Stop treating me like this, and expect her to say oh okay, and stop. It would just cause more bad behavior from her. And even when she's never done anything to me, I really don't doubt that she could and would.
THERAPIST: What has she done more recently? I mean I know when she was at school there were lots of examples of things that she did that were really unkind. But has she continued to act that way in her adult life?
CLIENT: I mean I always thought that, in the past I guess what it was a couple of years ago with the whole canary incident that she thought it was really cute to torture canaries and stuff, as opposed to just this is animal research; I'm do it because it's necessary. So I don't know what she's done but at least her attitudes have not changed. So, yes, I don't know if she has done anything. Maybe she hasn't. But it's not fair that I have to act like an adult and she will not act like an adult.
THERAPIST: You have to act in ways that you feel good about regardless of whether somebody else isn't up to that standard. It's about you feeling okay with what choices you're making. [00:06:04]
CLIENT: Yes. I could give her a poisoned yarn.
THERAPIST: Would you feel good about that choice [00:06:10]?
CLIENT: If I don't get arrested, yes. If I, yes, if I don't get caught I would but I probably would get caught, so I wouldn't. It's not like you can really get your hands on poison these days because people don't really keep as many toxic chemicals around in their house like they used to. So it's not a realistic expectation. I can't actively do anything to her. I can't insult her, I can't - I mean I guess if she insults then I reserve the right to insult her back. But unless she actively does something to me I can't do anything even though she's actively offended what matters. Apparently, because when I talked to what mattered to her to and she's like for the sake of family peace and stuff. If I had a job I would care a lot less about family peace, but...
THERAPIST: But you're dependent right now upon family peace.
CLIENT: I'm dependent right now. My mom's like I never ask you to do anything or don't ask much of you. And I'm like anyone who says that asks a lot of you. You don't say that to someone you never ask anything of. It's like saying no offense before something because as soon as you say no offense before something you're about to say something offensive.
THERAPIST: What do you feel your mom asks that's too much? I mean I know this, but...
CLIENT: This. This is too much but it's not like she's asked too much of me before but she's definitely asked things of me before and, you know, go to these things and other family events and stuff. And usually I will go to things it's just this one I really don't want to because I really hate Doreen and there's not going to be anyone there for me to talk to, and I'm just going to sit there and watch Doreen open gifts for four hours or something. Or maybe there'll be stupid games as well. I don't even know what goes on at bridal showers other than the opening of presents. [00:08:18]
THERAPIST: Usually talking and eating.
CLIENT: And there'll probably won't be anything I can eat. And, yes, I guess people will be talking about how awesome Doreen is. And I really hoping I'm not expected to say anything about how awesome Doreen is. I refuse. I am not going to stand up there and lie about how happy I am to be getting the sister that I never had because that would be a lie. So if anybody expects me to say anything, the answer is no.
THERAPIST: Well nobody has asked that of you so...
CLIENT: Yet. That's true. I have that problem. I don't really know what's going to happen other than people will talk, people will eat, and Doreen will open up all the presents.
THERAPIST: Yes, and then you'll go. It'll be over.
CLIENT: I mean I'm hoping I can at least leave early or something and stay for an hour of it and then go. So I'm not there for the full four hours or three hours because that's a lot of time to be spending with Doreen. And my mom wants me to be friends with Doreen, but she also knows that I hate Doreen. And it's not like I can go up and tell her I hate everyone. I don't really usually hate people. I think my mom knows that I don't usually hate people, so it's kind of annoying that, I don't know, she thinks if we spend enough time together we'll be close or something and it's just not going to happen because Doreen is evil. [00:10:04]
THERAPIST: You haven't said that you mom expects you to be friends with her. You said your mom expected you to go for the sake of family peace.
CLIENT: Well she also then - the following or the Sunday after my concert, the 20th, , the giant yard store is having a tent sale, and my mom and Doreen were going to it and my mom was like oh you should come along with us. And I don't like the idea of the tent sale, I do not like the idea of being in the car with mom and Doreen for three hours. So Sydney had wanted to show me some places up North anyway so what I think we're going to do is go up there on our own, meet them the minimal amount of time at the yarn store and then spend the rest of the time with Sydney and not be driving in the car for several hours with my mom and Doreen.
THERAPIST: Good, good plan.
CLIENT: I don't know why she's going with Doreen in the first place. And I guess Doreen's in that weekend; she's in this weekend too and I guess - yes, because the way how it was I thought was they were if you could - and my mom had said that if you guys went out to dinner with us all weekend instead and I said okay I can do that. But it seems that I'm going to have to go to the actual bridal shower and yes. There's no way they would ever believe that my [inaudible at 00:11:30] rehearsal was moved to 10 in the morning because it's a bunch of college and grad students. No one would want to have rehearsal at 10:00 in the morning. Ever, unless we had a concert that was early afternoon, which would also never happen. And it would have to be that day, which it isn't, so there is no lie I could tell.
And I couldn't tell my mom I don't want to go, don't make me go. I don't know, maybe I should make her give me something for it because I mean growing up, my parents had asked me and my brother to go to Hebrew school until we could get Bar and Bat Mitzvah'ed and I went to Hebrew school willingly. Even though I didn't like Hebrew school at all especially because my classmates were people from my class in middle school and stuff and were evil there too and stuff. [00:12:33]
THERAPIST: What is the connection between you going to Hebrew school and Doreen's bridal shower?
CLIENT: Wait for it. So I went willingly. Even - my parents asked me; I went willingly. My brother, on the other hand, didn't go willingly and they either alternately bribed him or punished him. And when they bribed him it was like here you could have this new computer if you go to Hebrew school, whereas I was going to Hebrew school and didn't get anything for it. And also - or they punished him by having the computer games withdrawn from my computer so I was being punished for him, which was completely totally unfair. Therefore, if I'm going to this bridal shower I deserve something in return for it.
THERAPIST: Interesting logic.
CLIENT: Considering, yes. They never asked me to do anything, that's not true. They made me go to Hebrew school; they made me go to real school.
THERAPIST: Real school is a requirement of the government.
CLIENT: Up until the age of 16. I could've dropped out at 16. I didn't, but I could have.
THERAPIST: Yes, you could have. It doesn't really seem related to me.
CLIENT: Maybe not real school but Hebrew school. I mean, let's have that Cullen all these years got to get things for being a jerk.
THERAPIST: That seems unfair.
CLIENT: I should get things for not being a jerk. That would make it fair because I'm suffering to go to this. I should get something besides just my mom's undying gratitude. I don't even know what that something is, but - because she's also, I'm sure, going to force me if I have a bridal shower she'll force me to invite Doreen even though I don't want Doreen at my bridal shower or I don't want a bridal shower to begin with. You know, she's going to force Doreen to come to my wedding someday, she's going to want us to come for Thanksgiving and then we'll have to be with Doreen for Thanksgiving and, you know. I mean at least any family trips or anywhere I can always say no to those because they're family vacations and I can skip them. [00:14:59]
THERAPIST: See you're jumping way ahead. Part of what's making you even more upset about the idea of giving up three or four hours of your day is the fact that you're jumping way ahead to your wedding and your bridal shower and what might happen at these future events.
CLIENT: I mean she'll either, no matter who I marry unless they get - Cullen and Doreen get divorced.
THERAPIST: That is true but you're - these are not things you need to be feeling right now, because you're not engaged, you're not planning your shower right now. I hope that one day you will do those things and I'm sure you will, but you don't have to feel upset about your guest list at this moment.
CLIENT: She's still becoming part of my family and I still have to go to this bridal shower and I just still get some sort of reward for going.
THERAPIST: Okay so let's stay on what you're actually upset about which is, what's happening now, which is having to go to her bridal shower and not liking the idea of her becoming part of your family. We don't need to be upset about yours now, but staying with where you actually are. [00:16:00]
CLIENT: I'm just annoyed that Doreen is exerting this control and wants it all to be perfect for her. She doesn't even - I don't think she likes me even. All I know, okay so we went to high school together for a couple of years and then she went to Temple. And most of her opinion of me I am pretty sure comes from what she's heard from Cullen. And Cullen hates me. Therefore Doreen has probably been hearing how horrible of a sister I am and how selfish I am and so I don't think Doreen likes me either or has any desire to become close with me. She probably invited - she's inviting me to this bridal shower expecting me to be there so I'm paying my respects to her, showing her how important she is and not ruining her special day, or her other special day because she already has a wedding as her special day.
THERAPIST: This is all possibly quite true. It's the conventional thing to do, to invite the siblings of your...
CLIENT: It's not like I'm her actual sister.
THERAPIST: It's pretty conventional to invite your fiancée's siblings to your shower.
CLIENT: Maybe it's conventional to invite them; it isn't conventional to demand them coming. It's not.
THERAPIST: She's not demanding. Your mom is asking you to go.
CLIENT: My mom is demanding and I know that Doreen is going to be upset if I don't now because - but not because she likes me but because she wants to be in control. And I know this from Vincent and Aimee and I believe Vincent and Aimee about this. So the least I can do is get something for my trouble because it is my trouble. It's not fair that Doreen gets her way just because she's willing to be evil to people. If it were just like a normal person who might be - well if it were a normal person who would be disappointed and who wasn't evil, then I... [00:18:22]
THERAPIST: So what do people usually get for doing the right thing? You feel like you're doing the right thing. You're going because your mom wants you to. What do other people get for usually for doing the right thing?
CLIENT: Nothing usually.
THERAPIST: So why do you deserve something?
CLIENT: Because I'm doing it for my mom and she's asking me for a favor. Therefore I should get something in return for doing this favor for her. And because we've already proved that there's bribery in this family so I should get bribed for doing this. Even if I am an adult because it's only fair to make up for the fact that Cullen always got things for being a jerk. He would be kicking and screaming. It wasn't just no I won't go. You know, he would physically fight them and it was either drag him there kicking and screaming, in which case he would be kicking and screaming and providing a distraction for the entire view of Hebrew school, or let him stay at home and get his way. And the thing with the bribes is then he would get the bribes and it wouldn't even work. He'd still refuse to go. All it is...
THERAPIST: So would it really make it feel fair if you got something now?
CLIENT: Yes. If it were something nice it would make it feel fair because I do things for her and it's like oh get together with Grandma, do this, do that. It's not like she's asked me to do nothing. That's not true. [00:20:08]
THERAPIST: So what would feel fair to you?
CLIENT: Well either A, the right to not invite her to my bridal shower if I have a bridal shower someday, which would be awesome but probably not going to happen, so I should pray to not invite her to my wedding someday, which would be really awesome but it's not going to happen. Or a large sum of money so I can stop worrying about money.
THERAPIST: What amount would you need?
CLIENT: I think about probably a couple of hundred. I'm going to ask her for $1000 or something. You know the time when Cullen was getting his bribes, he got bribed with a new computer for Hebrew school and then I was like okay can I get a new computer? And my parents were like oh well that's your birthday present. And I'm like it wasn't Cullen's birthday present; it was his bribe for being a jerk. That new computer probably was about $1000 or something, I think. This would be the 90s or something. Computers were expensive back then. And so - it would cost them a lot less than it would cost them to bribe Cullen for going to Hebrew school. Either that or it would be stop asking me about jobs ever, and don't put any more pressure on me for that.
THERAPIST: So what stops you from bringing up these ideas to mom? [00:22:11]
CLIENT: Because I only thought of them just now.
THERAPIST: Okay.
CLIENT: Not any idea of being a decent human being who should just go for the sake of family and therefore not [00:22:20]
THERAPIST: Wait a minute. So you don't feel like you're being a decent human being any more?
CLIENT: By asking for a bribe? Well, I'm definitely not being as horrible as Doreen and, I mean it's not the nicest thing in the world to do but when people do things that you want them to do and they don't want to do, if they're disinclined to do it then you can offer them a reward for doing said thing. Come over with your truck and help me move and I'll buy you a pizza or something like that. It's not unheard of.
THERAPIST: I'm just listening to your own words change from this is something that I deserve to I'm not being the nicest human being by asking. Those sound like different ideas to me.
CLIENT: I mean I still think I do deserve it but if I were a better human being I would go and do it even though I do deserve some sort of reward for having to go through this. But I do deserve some sort of reward for having to go through this. It's causing me this much anguish, I hate Doreen this much, Doreen is evil, I don't like her, I don't want to celebrate the fact that she's getting married to my brother. And the fact that I can't just give her a present and have that be enough is really annoying because I'd much rather give her a present and have that be enough rather than coming to the bridal shower. And for anyone else in the world if you give them a nice present and you couldn't, don't go to their bridal shower usually they're happy with the present because you aren't - if you're invited to something and you don't go you're not obligated to get them anything and it's like wow this person went out their way to get me something even though they didn't come to the event. To anyone else in the world this would be considered nice and I would be able to get away with that. With Doreen I can't. [00:24:45]
THERAPIST: With your mom.
CLIENT: With my mom I can't too.
THERAPIST: I think there's an important piece here that is your mom is - Doreen invited you; your mom is asking you to go. And your friends are predicting that Doreen would be upset if you didn't go based on their experience of her. But Doreen hasn't actually said any of this stuff to you.
CLIENT: Well it's not like I can call her up and be like hey Doreen will you be upset if I don't go to your bridal shower because I hate you?
THERAPIST: No, you can't - it would be probably unrealistic to ask. But you're making lots of assumptions about what she would actually say. I'm not saying that you should try to get confirmation, but you should be aware that you're making a lot of assumptions.
CLIENT: Yes, I mean the problem is there is no way to get confirmation.
THERAPIST: There is no way to get confirmation, you're right.
CLIENT: Risking something unless I have someone else ask her but I don't know really anyone who's really mutual friends with both of us who could ask.
THERAPIST: I don't think it's realistic to get confirmation from her about whether or not your assumptions are correct. That makes the whole thing a much bigger deal than it already is. It adds another layer of complexity. But a lot of the anger that you're feeling is sort of exacerbated by your belief that your assumptions are 100 percent correct. And we don't really know that. We can't really know that without confirmation which you can't really get. [00:26:27]
CLIENT: Yes. It's not like you can ask someone who's evil if they're evil and expect them to be like yes I am.
THERAPIST: One of the things that I'm focused on is not whether or not she's evil or whether or not it's appropriate of your mom to expect you to go. I think the important thing for us to focus on is you've made this decision to go based on your mom's request and your friends' expectations that there would be some consequence to not going. So how can you go with as little distress as possible?
CLIENT: Getting something nice in return. It's the only way I can go with little distress because I can't go and be like oh yea, I'm going. I'm so happy; I'm making Doreen happy. Yea. Or I'm making my mom happy. That isn't going to cut it. I don't really care about my mom's happiness right now because she's the one who's sending me to this thing where I hate Doreen.
My parents are upset that Cullen is marrying Doreen but it's not because they hate Cullen. Maybe it's because Doreen isn't Jewish and they're just able to disguise their sadness about this. And maybe it's partially because of that that they're trying to disguise their sadness and okay maybe if we have Georgia come then Doreen will feel more welcome in this family when we're not being so welcoming ourselves. But I don't know if that's true. [00:28:02]
But yes. I think they need to give me something nice in return in order for me to not feel so horrible about going because right now I feel horrible about going. And I have less than a week. Which means when I get home I'm going to have to actually start working on tidying the yard for her. Unless there is something I could buy her but doing the yard is going to be cheaper and not take that much of my time.
If my parents were paying me to be there that would be almost like I had a job. $100 an hour. It would be a really good salary. Hire me to go to this event and then it would be a job that I would be earning money for it and I can feel better about it by that because then I'm earning money to go to this thing and pretend to be nice and I'm just doing my job. As opposed to actually supporting Doreen or something because usually when people really don't want to go to things they can just not go to things.
THERAPIST: And you could make that choice.
CLIENT: At this point it might be too late. And I guess maybe it isn't really too late unless, until it's the morning of. I mean it's not like I've even gotten the invitation to RSVP. The fact that I'm getting the invitation less than a week before I can be like oh sorry you didn't give me enough notice. But then my mom gave me more notice than that. [00:30:15]
THERAPIST: You know it's coming. Or you know when the shower is even if you don't get a paper invitation and that you've been invited to go.
CLIENT: Well do I know that I've been invited to go if I haven't heard it from the person that is running the event? Do I really know? You could say that someone's invited but if you don't have confirmation...
THERAPIST: Seems even if you don't have confirmation or are aware that you have been told...
CLIENT: Well my mom told me...
THERAPIST: ...maybe by sending family.
CLIENT: Maybe but my mom got an actual invitation in the mail on Saturday, which is how she then got the confirmation that it's at 10 in the morning. But, yes. It's at 10 in the morning. But I haven't gotten this actual invitation yet so if she got an invitation and I don't get an invitation, how do we really know that I'm invited? Maybe I'm not. Maybe I shouldn't go then because I'm not invited.
THERAPIST: It's your - it really is your choice to make. You know - your mom has given her input and told you what she wants from you. And you make your decision.
CLIENT: I mean I could get sick at the last minute.
THERAPIST: You could. [00:32:00]
CLIENT: I mean it's at least more plausible than my other plan which was to tell her that I had gotten into a horrible accident and got turned into a cat and then send Frau Zoller there instead of me. But she would beat the word if you're going to throw a cat into a bridal shower you don't throw her in a bridal shower. She would get very upset and hiss and stuff. No one's going to believe that I got into a horrible accident in which I got turned into a cat.
THERAPIST: Most likely not.
CLIENT: But they might believe that I'm sick. But it's not like - and then I don't know whether or not my parents would stop by my place to see if I'm actually sick or something. I just don't know.
THERAPIST: Yes, I really don't want to be there. You have made that abundantly clear.
CLIENT: I don't know if my parents really know how much I don't want to be there. They know I don't want to be there. I don't think they know how strongly I don't want to be there. And I've told them that I don't think that Doreen was done. But they just, I don't know, don't care or oh that was college, she probably grew up by now. It's not like, I don't think people really grow out of being sociopaths. It's not like she was just being mean to people because she was - they had hurt her and she had to hurt them back. She was just mean to people so she could make them miserable. I think that's a personality trait. I don't think that's something you grow out of. Especially - , you know, if you do it in high school that's one thing, but if you're doing it in college then it's like - usually people have grown out of these things by the end of high school, so if she was still doing them in college then there's no way to, I don't think there's any guarantee that she's matured since college. [00:34:06]
And all I know is she hasn't done anything evil to Cullen or anyone else in the family yet but - and she can be nice to people if she wants to try to impress them or something. I mean it's not like she's incapable of being nice, just that she's also very manipulative and will be mean to people either to get what she wants or because she feels like it. And I don't really know if my parents understand that because she's never done anything to Cullen. So and I can't just be like Doreen's evil, Doreen's evil, Doreen's evil. I've told them the things, all I know; I don't know anything about what she's done recently, if anything. But - and right now maybe it's just that she's also socializing with less people anyway because she's in a Ph.D. program and stuff and so I feel there's less people around that she has that she would like...
THERAPIST: Her focus would be in a different place than it was in her new route. What's important to focus on is you making decisions that you feel comfortable with, things that - making decisions that feel consistent with what your values are. You don't have control over her decisions or what she's like. You only have control over what you choose to do in the places where you have choices to make.
CLIENT: Poisoned yarn. There's nothing - yes, that's the problem. I can't actually do anything to actually harm her. Then I would feel bad about it.
THERAPIST: Yes, it wouldn't be a choice that would be consistent with your values.
CLIENT: Even though she deserves it?
THERAPIST: Even though you dislike her. That's different. [00:36:08]
CLIENT: Even though I dislike her and she's done mean things to my friends? She has done mean things to my friends; therefore I think she does deserve it. Unprovoked mean things to my friends. But I can't just do something because she's never done anything to me, therefore I can't do anything to her.
THERAPIST: Then someone else doing something mean doesn't mean that it's right to do something mean yourself. You can protect yourself, but you don't want to be a mean person.
CLIENT: I'm only doing it to one person who's already been mean to me. I don't know if that makes me a mean person per se, if they started it and I'm only being mean to them.
THERAPIST: How many years ago was it?
CLIENT: That she did this stuff? I guess about six years ago.
THERAPIST: Might it be time to let it go? Can someone ever be forgiven for past mistakes?
CLIENT: If they apologize for it and show remorse, which Doreen never did. If she felt bad about it and I thought that she actually turned over a new leaf and became a good person then that would be one thing. But if anything she seems proud of the things that she did in college and stuff and - yes. She's just a bad person as opposed to a person who has done some bad things in their past. These are different.
THERAPIST: What good is it doing you to hold onto it? So it doesn't seem like it feels like the right thing to do to forgive her for her sake, but I'm wondering what it does for you to hold onto it?
CLIENT: Well it makes me feel more frightened and I don't feel like I should forgive her. It just - I would feel bad about being like oh okay Doreen's a great person. I mean like... [00:38:31]
THERAPIST: But that's not what forgiveness is. Forgiveness isn't saying that she's a great person if you don't believe it is. Forgiveness is letting go of your anger so that the anger isn't hurting you.
CLIENT: Oh I'm still also angry at the fact that she's making me go to this bridal shower, making me become part of this party so that [inaudible at 00:38:50].
THERAPIST: She's not making you go.
CLIENT: My mom is.
THERAPIST: It's important to direct your feelings to the appropriate place because you're using lots of different things to fuel your anger at Doreen, and some of them are about Doreen but some of them are about different things. Some of them are about Cullen...
CLIENT: Well I'm angry at my parents too.
THERAPIST: ..and his not wanting to go to Hebrew school. That's not really about Doreen's shower. Some of them are about your mom's expectations of keeping up appearances. That's not fair to be mad at Doreen for that. So the things that are fueling your anger right now, you need to make sure that they're not being misdirected. So you being angry that your parents bribed Cullen to get him to go to Hebrew school but didn't give you anything, that's not really fair to hold that against Doreen.
CLIENT: Okay, but I can hold against Doreen that she's becoming part of this family and I don't like her.
THERAPIST: You can absolutely not like her. There's no rule saying you have to like her.
CLIENT: You know, if she wasn't having this bridal shower I wouldn't have to go. And if she wasn't marrying Cullen I wouldn't have to go. But she is marrying Cullen and I do have to go because they're having it in a place that I can get to and I have no excuse to get out of that. And I thought I had an excuse to get out of this and no, she had to put it at 10:00 in the morning. [00:40:15]
THERAPIST: I would doubt that she is doing any of those things just to make your life miserable. She's not marrying Cullen to upset you. She didn't plan the time of the bridal shower to upset you. She's doing those things because that fit for her. For whatever reason, her daughter getting married - hopefully because they like one another - but not just to piss you off. And who knows why the time of the shower was picked. Maybe that was the time that was convenient at the place that they're having it. It's probably not their - your desire to sleep in on a Sunday was probably not what fueled their decision to time the bridal shower.
CLIENT: Well I'm surprised other people don't have a desire to sleep in on a Sunday. I mean 10 A.M. is early, especially for my cousins who are coming from farther away. Or my - well I guess my mom always wakes up early. But, yes, my cousin Maggie's coming and she's coming from Vermont, which is further than [inaudible] and is probably a few hours away. It's a long drive. So then she's like we have to be up at 8:00 or something on Sunday morning, which is really early. And Doreen's family is coming from New Hampshire and they would have to leave at 9:00. So I'm really surprised that no one's desire to sleep in on a Sunday morning came into the equation.
THERAPIST: Other people might have different schedules than what you're used to.
CLIENT: There's no way to deliberately get myself sick. I can only lie and say I'm sick, or manage to get sick, which could happen. I don't know that it will happen but it could happen but I can't really count on it. I don't know anyone who's really ill right now who I could like hang out with and get their germs from. [00:42:26]
THERAPIST: That's an interesting strategy.
CLIENT: Yes. It would solve all the problems though. And if it was - I wouldn't try to get myself something that could kill me but if it would get me...
THERAPIST: Well that's good to know.
CLIENT: ...sick for a few days, I'd be willing to be sick for a few days even if it did make [inaudible at 00:42:52] a little bit more difficult since I'd be sick during (inaudible) then but...
THERAPIST: Doesn't seem like a very adult way to handle the situation.
CLIENT: Well the adult way would be to be like okay I don't want to go to this bridal shower. Here's a present. And the adult thing for her would be okay, thank you for this present. Sorry that you couldn't make it. And the adult thing for my mom would be to accept my decision to not go and be like okay well you're giving her this present, that's good.
THERAPIST: So why not try that version out?
CLIENT: Because my mom won't accept it. She's the one who won't accept me not going and just giving a present.
THERAPIST: So what would your mom actually do if you said mom, I know you want me to go; I really don't want to go; I'm sending along this gift?
CLIENT: Yell at me? I don't know. Add more guilt. Keep on telling me how she never asks me to do anything even though that's a lie.
THERAPIST: Well are those consequences that you're willing to accept?
CLIENT: I don't know.
THERAPIST: Being yelled at and being told that you're not doing the...
CLIENT: I don't like being yelled at either.
THERAPIST: Well I don't think many people do.
CLIENT: I don't know if I dislike being yelled at more than I dislike being at bridal showers of people I hate, but neither of them are really good options. [00:44:12]
THERAPIST: They can both be unpleasant.
CLIENT: Especially when I was originally saying I have rehearsal and if I had rehearsal then it would have been fine.
THERAPIST: Stick with reality. You don't have rehearsal.
CLIENT: Unless I can get them to change rehearsal to 10:00 in the morning. And the problem I can't even lie and say that there's a sectional because my mom knows that I'm the only tenor, so an tenor sectional would be me.
THERAPIST: Stay with reality. Stay with what your options really are.
CLIENT: Pretending to be sick is an option. Actually being sick is an option that I have little control over. Going and being miserable is an option. Going and insisting that Sydney also be able to come is...
THERAPIST: Not really an option unless it's a coed shower.
CLIENT: I'm not sure if it's a coed shower. It might be a coed shower. It might not be. Cullen might be - I don't know. I have to ask my mom about that because I'm not sure it's a coed shower. Running away and getting a new identity and stuff probably wouldn't be...
THERAPIST: Not.
CLIENT: ...a realistic option.
THERAPIST: I'm glad to see that you're recognizing that that's not a realistic option.
CLIENT: But pretending to be sick is a realistic option. And I mean I've been getting sick a lot. So it really wouldn't be that impossible that I got sick again because being sick all the time doesn't reduce your possibility of being sick again and there could still be things going around. But it's not like my mom would be seeing me on a day-to-day basis and see how the next day oh, I'm fine. She wouldn't know. [00:46:22]
THERAPIST: So you have to decide whether or not you want to be straightforward and...
CLIENT: And get yelled at.
THERAPIST: ...and maybe get yelled at, if you want to go to please her and not - which would not be doing what you want to do, or whether you want to have a less straightforward way of dealing with it, which is either hoping you'll get sick or pretending you get sick.
CLIENT: Or demanding some sort of reward for going, which might actually be my best option at this case at this point.
THERAPIST: You have two weeks?
CLIENT: No.
THERAPIST: One week? One week to make your final decision?
CLIENT: Basics (ph). A week. A week from yesterday. I have one week to make my final decision. I thought it was farther away but as it turns out no it's not.
THERAPIST: So it's really soon. I did want to check in before we end about your psychiatrist appointment because I think you've been.
CLIENT: Yes, I went. So she [inaudible at 00:47:32] me about the whole not wanting to take me off Welbutrin if there was no other option. And I told her about the whole escapades with the SSRIs that had the doctor in the ER who told me I had Seratonin syndrome, though of course at this point it was six years later so I can't even remember what exactly had gone wrong that I went to the ER in the first place and why they thought...
THERAPIST: But remember going to the ER and getting that response so that's the important take-away there.
CLIENT: So then she was like okay then we're not going to do the ones that have even like a little working on Seratonin. Most of them work on more Epinephrine, like [inaudible at 00:48:10] or whatever or effects for right now. So it does reduce the options. Like right now she thought the problem I guess was the Xanax. If I keep on taking it multiple times a day then I could get - it doesn't last that long and then I'm getting withdrawals. And the fact that before seeing her I'd gone a good four or five days without taking any medication, did not have any bad effects so she didn't think I was absolutely addicted to it. But she, but she wanted to - oh yes. I can't go above the 450 on the Welbutrin because it carries the risk of seizure. So... [00:48:52]
THERAPIST: You're already at the 450?
CLIENT: I'm already at the 450. And she didn't want to go up too much more or any more on the Seroquel because it carries a risk of diabetes long term. So what we're doing right now is decreasing the Seroquel a little bit and I've been instead taking at night a Klonopin and that way the effects of the anti-anxiety stuff will last during the day. And I still don't have a problem during the night; the problem is every day since then I've been tired during the day. I've still been able to do stuff, like yesterday when I had my concert, beforehand when we were in the practice room, I was - pretty much whenever we weren't singing I was down on the floor because I was really tired. And...
THERAPIST: And you think that's from the Klonopin?
CLIENT: I think it's from the Klonopin. And I mean I guess the next step I could do is because it seems like they're not encapsulated or anything so I could use a pill cutter and take half of it even though she's given me the smallest pill. Or I could go back to the Xanax because she said I could either do the - take the Xanax as needed or take the Klonopin every night. I just can't mix them. [00:50:16]
THERAPIST: Right because there's some other types of meds.
CLIENT: Yes. I mean I also - I guess I can wait and see if I still feel tired a few days later.
THERAPIST: How was your panic?
CLIENT: My panic is fine. I have not been panicking since that.
THERAPIST: So that's a big change because you had been having a lot more anxiety and panic.
CLIENT: But at the same time there was a time yesterday, a time today that I was feeling a little bit depressed, not like super depressed and not like self-harm wanting...
THERAPIST: But just for short periods during the day?
CLIENT: Just for short periods during the day. But still wanting to curl up in a ball and cry and...
THERAPIST: But given what we've been talking about today, that might be situation appropriate. I mean you're really dreading the shower and you're really angry and those two things can make you want to curl up in a ball and cry. Those are pretty appropriate feelings for what you're anticipating in the coming week.
CLIENT: Maybe but I was feeling that way yesterday too and stuff so. I wasn't actively thinking about the shower, though. But I guess I did like to...
THERAPIST: But it has been an idea that's been there. Not - if the feelings don't last for that long, while I feel sympathy for you feeling that way, it doesn't make me worry that much about a depressive episode because that - depressive episodes are when the feelings are there and really stick around. The difference between sadness and depression is that depression is two weeks of feeling like that, not being able to feel anything else and what you just described was much more fleeting than that. So certainly my hopes for you are higher that you're not going to have feelings like that, but it doesn't red-flag depression.
Well I'm glad to hear that you guys are on the same page. I know some of what you were worried about was her wanting to take you off the Welbutrin and not having any other options. And it sounds like she listened to what you had to say and came up with some things to try that might help.
CLIENT: Yes, I'm going to see her in a month from that past Tuesday.
THERAPIST: So you'll have some good follow up.
CLIENT: Yes.
THERAPIST: Well I'm glad to hear that. Well why don't we stop for today and we'll meet next week as regular? Okay. [00:52:38]
END TRANSCRIPT
