Transcript of Audio File:
______________________________________________________________________________
BEGIN TRANSCRIPT:
CLIENT: (inaudible at 00:00:01) Well if there was a single test then everything would probably either really work or really not work.
THERAPIST: Yeah it's not really been decorated so much haphazardly thrown together.
CLIENT: It works. I like the sea pods.
THERAPIST: The what?
CLIENT: The sea pods or the things (inaudible at 00:00:25).
THERAPIST: Oh.
CLIENT: Yeah I'm having a good morning.
THERAPIST: Oh good.
CLIENT: Yeah I had breakfast with Franco.
THERAPIST: Uh-huh.
CLIENT: (inaudible at 00:00:38) talked about (inaudible) talked about cats and his mother. (laughs) But that is what we talked about.
THERAPIST: Uh-huh.
CLIENT: And yeah. I applied for a job.
THERAPIST: Good.
CLIENT: And fill out some more paperwork. For the insurance — there is a form that I was supposed to fill out that nobody told me I was supposed to fill out. So. [00:01:04]
THERAPIST: Nice. Yeah.
CLIENT: Good times.
THERAPIST: Yeah.
CLIENT: So I'll get to that. But yeah.
THERAPIST: (inaudible at 00:01:11)
CLIENT: So.
THERAPIST: That's for keeping your current insurance you mean?
CLIENT: No for the appeal for (inaudible at 00:01:19) more sessions.
THERAPIST: Oh. I gotcha.
CLIENT: Apparently I have to fill out a demonstrated financial need form.
THERAPIST: Oh okay. You can't just write, "I'm a graduate student."
CLIENT: (laughs) Yeah. Somehow not really.
THERAPIST: Yeah.
CLIENT: Which is fine. It's just — I feel like sometimes I read too much into e-mails or very small exchanges or glances. Or very small things.
THERAPIST: I see.
CLIENT: But the problem is a lot of the time that I'm reading the right thing into it so then when I make mistakes I place more reliance on small evidence because I'm right a lot. [00:02:00]
THERAPIST: What I've got is that your intuition about the sort of subtle cues is often very good though sometimes you err on the side of over-interpreting.
CLIENT: Yeah. Well it's also been very good so then when I'm wrong, I'll put more reliance on it. So I have to catch myself and say, "No you are in fact basing this on —."
THERAPIST: I see.
CLIENT: E-mail for instance. All of which is to say that the patient advocate was a little snippy with me.
THERAPIST: I see.
CLIENT: And I was like, "You didn't tell me I needed a form." (laughs) But well, that's her problem. But (inaudible at 00:02:47)
THERAPIST: (inaudible) What else comes to mind?
CLIENT: I took it pretty easy yesterday. I spent three hours in the morning doing — finally talking with the accessibility office and figuring out what they needed from me which was a letter from Dr. [inaudible] saying my current condition. And saying, "No really. It's a good idea that she take a year off." [00:03:22]
THERAPIST: Right.
CLIENT: And I found a job to apply for. Spent a couple, two and a half-hours writing the cover letter and getting my resume together in the shape that was appropriate for this job.
THERAPIST: What is it?
CLIENT: Well it's a admin assistantship at a program called [anonymous], which is through the work center. Work center at school. So basically I would just be an assistant in any number of unspecified fields.
THERAPIST: Mm-hmm.
CLIENT: So I'd go out and track things down. Write summaries. Build bibliographies. All of which is stuff that I would be very good at and could do very well. Unfortunately only after I submitted my application did they tell me the job is no longer available. So.
And I was like, "Okay. I'm going to watch Dr. Who for the rest of the day." (laughs) This day could go one of two ways. I'm going pick the way that ends with me moderately dissatisfied with my own lack of productivity. [00:04:35]
THERAPIST: I see.
CLIENT: But otherwise okay.
THERAPIST: Yeah.
CLIENT: So then I had a conversation with James about it. And he said, "So you don't feel good about yourself because you didn't get much done today?" And I said, "Yeah." And he said, "Maybe you should set goals for yourself at the beginning of the day." And I said, "Oh well I do. I do. My goal is that I'm going to apply for a job a day. And I feel like that's a good pace that I can keep up. And that's what I did today." So he said, "So you met your goal for the day."
And I said, "Yeah." And he said, "And you still feel bad about yourself?" And I said, "Yeah." And he said, "Now was this really the goal you had or just the goal you were telling yourself you had and you actually wanted to do more stuff?" And I said, "No I think this really was what I wanted to do today." He was like, "Yeah. But you still feel bad about yourself." And I said, "Yes." Have you ever heard — do you know that story about Achilles and the tortoise? And do you know the story? [00:05:32]
THERAPIST: (inaudible)
CLIENT: Oh sorry. I didn't either. (laughing) (inaudible at 00:05:36) But Achilles tried to explain the principles of logic to a tortoise. And so he says, "Premise one." And the tortoise says, "Oh yeah. I see that." And he says, "Do you agree with premise two?" And he says, "Oh yeah I see that." And he says, "Do you agree with premise three?" And he says, "Oh yeah." Then you have to conclude that this, and the tortoise says, "No, no. I don't see how that (inaudible at 00:05:57)."
THERAPIST: (laughs) Right.
CLIENT: (laughing) So.
THERAPIST: Yep.
CLIENT: Yeah I don't know whether—I mean I told him that I don't whether it's harder being the person who has a brain that doesn't respond well to reason or being with the person who has the brain that doesn't respond well to reason. But - .
THERAPIST: Well there's a third alternative. (laughs)
CLIENT: (laughs) Well that's good.
THERAPIST: At least the way you told the story to me just now it was as though you were quite frustrated that you had gone through the effort of — well I imagine you were sort of pleased to find a job that looked like a good fit. [00:06:55]
CLIENT: Mm-hmm.
THERAPIST: I imagine in a bunch of different ways. You spent some time getting your resume together, writing the cover letter. You sent it in. They told you that you just wasted your time. Well not entirely but kind of.
CLIENT: Yeah. I know. That was really frustrating.
THERAPIST: Yeah.
CLIENT: But by the end of the day I was not upset about that. Well I did send an e-mail to the Director of H.R. at the larger place saying, "Is this actually still closed?" Because the program they have is really buggy.
THERAPIST: Right.
CLIENT: And had messed up a couple of things. So I've done what I can there. But it was more I was just frustrated with myself because I had this one setback at like 12:30 or 1:00 and then I just didn't do anything else for the rest of the day. And so it was like it's been too much time that I was not productive. And that was (inaudible). [00:08:00]
THERAPIST: Are you saying you were frustrated with how bowled over you got by this setback? I mean upset about it? Or are you just saying you feel like you wasted your time?
CLIENT: No. I just get discontented and — I just feel badly about myself when I feel like I've been wasting time. Or haven't been doing anything. And so even though it was a situation where I think I did the right thing. I think I handled the day in the right way. I think I did the only thing that I could do. I still at the end of the day — and I did what I said I was going to do. Like even if — I applied for a job. So what that the job didn't actually — wasn't open.
THERAPIST: Right. You did your part. (inaudible at 00:08:45) Yeah.
CLIENT: I still applied. In my heart — but I still felt bad about myself at the end of the day. Even though on all of the conscious, mental checkmarks of things that I need to do to feel good about myself I'd done them all. So you know. It's only 11:00 in the morning I haven't had time to ruin my day yet. [00:09:20]
THERAPIST: Mm-hmm.
CLIENT: (inaudible at 00:09:23)
THERAPIST: Hmm. (pause at [00:09:24] to 00:09:33) I guess the thing that I'm still having trouble getting my head around is that— the way you put it. You were like, "And then I found out —." I'm probably misunderstanding something here. "And then I found out that the job was already closed."
CLIENT: Uh-huh.
THERAPIST: "And so I thought, 'Okay I'm going to pick the less bad option for how the rest of my day could go.' And I just watched Dr. Who the rest of the day."
CLIENT: Mm-hmm.
THERAPIST: And that made me imagine that you sort of were in a way shelving the rest of the day. That you were upset by what happened and you were just backing off. [00:10:22]
CLIENT: Yeah. Because I could feel my mood starting to crumble. Like I could feel myself — I was at the point where I knew if I tried to fulfill more of my responsibilities — like get more things done, do more tasks — and anything else went wrong I could see myself precipitating into a very, very bad place very fast.
THERAPIST: Oh. I see.
CLIENT: So I was like at the point where I was like — I shouldn't have pushed and tried to do more (inaudible at 00:10:58).
THERAPIST: It doesn't sound so illogical to me.
CLIENT: No I know. That's the point. I mean the point is I made the right decision. I just still feel badly about it at the end of the day. (laughs)
THERAPIST: (chuckles) (inaudible at 00:11:12)
CLIENT: I mean what else could I have done? I could've taken a couple of hours off and then tried to go back to work. But I - . [00:11:22]
THERAPIST: Your concern was that if something else didn't go well it would've really sent you downhill fast.
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: And you were scared.
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: And reasonably so. I mean I imagine you're sort of — that was a plausible way things could've gone. Like (inaudible at 00:11:45).
CLIENT: Yeah. And trying to kind of manage my moods. I have to know when it's time to stop putting stress on myself. And that was a point at which I think I did stop at the right point. You know I did as much as I could without getting into a place where bad feelings would start to snowball.
THERAPIST: Mm-hmm.
CLIENT: And I would end up in the depths of despair.
THERAPIST: Mm-hmm.
CLIENT: So I kind of distracted and watched Dr. Who. And did a little sewing and stuff. But —. [00:12:29]
THERAPIST: Right. Which again you made the — you took the least bad option. But it still wound up with a bad outcome.
CLIENT: Yeah. Yeah. Not so bad. But not great.
THERAPIST: Mm-hmm.
CLIENT: I mean on the plus side I — this morning I'm ready to go. As opposed to being worn out from yesterday.
THERAPIST: Mm-hmm. Yeah.
CLIENT: Yeah. (pause at [00:13:20] to 00:13:57)
THERAPIST: So I guess something else there is that where I was also wondering whether it's important or significant that it was your disappointment or frustration with something else — in this case the job application system or whatever. It sounds like you're saying that kind of could've been a variety of sorts of hitches or bumps in the road that would have made you feel fragile enough that you had to kind of back off of the rest of the day in a way. [00:14:51]
CLIENT: Yes. Yes. I mean that was — yes. That was the main one. But I just find dealing with the kinds of logistical issues that I have to deal with in taking a leave of absence difficult. It's the type of management that I have a hard time with. For myself at least.
I say, "Okay but what forms do I need to fill out? Who do I need to talk to?" This information that is on the website that is supposed to explain things to me does not actually explain things to me very well. Who do I call to — who will know the answer to this? Shuttling between different people and I'm only good for a little bit of that a day. [00:15:45]
THERAPIST: Yeah again that's sounding to me like stuff you're frustrated with about like other people not telling you we have a certain form to fill out or being — I mean you — maybe I'm —. You've told me that you're pretty good at sort of reading text and interpreting and making connections. And if there are —.
CLIENT: Are you saying I'm not making connections here? (laughs)
THERAPIST: No. No. Interestingly not at all what I'm saying. (chuckles) What I'm saying is if you can't read a form and know what to do, it's probably not because you're not good at it. [00:16:41]
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: It's probably —
CLIENT: And the woman at the accessibility office that I finally talked to and as it turned out my e-mail hadn't gone through the previous week. So it's a bunch of stuff like that. Of just an e-mail that didn't go through. The Director is on vacation this week or whatever reason.
THERAPIST: Right.
CLIENT: So he can't sign my forms because he's away.
THERAPIST: Right. He's on vacation.
CLIENT: And not checking his e-mail.
THERAPIST: Right.
CLIENT: All of this stuff. It's not really anybody's fault and then some stuff that is people's fault. But the Director of the Accessibility Office was really helpful. And I was like, "I don't know if you're the person I should ask about this stuff but I can't find anybody else. So what about insurance? What about will I get paid this summer? Who do I ask?"
And she just said, "Why don't you send me the forms? The information that's available to you about the insurance. And I'll talk to them about it." As in like, "If you can't understand it, that's probably not your fault. Let me see what you're seeing. And I'll try to intervene in some way." To like saying, "Maybe we could change this chart so that it makes sense." [00:17:51]
THERAPIST: Right. So it felt like she was patronizing you?
CLIENT: No. No. It was very reassuring to have her —
THERAPIST: Oh. She was taking it over.
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: Or taking (inaudible at 00:18:02).
CLIENT: To have her assumption be not that I am the incompetent one but that maybe people are not actually helping me.
THERAPIST: Okay. All right. Yeah. I see.
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: Right. And in fact it's not your fault. It's something unclear (inaudible at 00:18:24).
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: Yeah.
CLIENT: Yeah. But and you know these are pretty large — these things that are unclear have very large consequences for me. Like it makes a big difference to know whether I'm going to be paid this summer or not.
THERAPIST: Yeah.
CLIENT: And whether I have to do anything in order to be paid this summer or not. It makes a big difference to know whether there is a moment in time at which I can take a leave of absence that will make them not charge me for stopping my insurance there. [00:18:59]
THERAPIST: Mm-hmm.
CLIENT: Which is unclear. So. But yeah. Yeah. It's like I said, I'm only good for a little bit of time a day to deal with (inaudible at 00:19:26).
THERAPIST: Right. But I guess —. I haven't heard anything yet that contradicts the idea that what you're only good with for so long is your frustration with their not being clear, not knowing what they're supposed to know, or absolutely you're not being able to move ahead for logistical reasons that aren't anybody's fault. [00:20:03]
CLIENT: Yeah. It's a combination of frustration with them and frustration with the world and frustration with myself. I'm very — my default position is that if something logistical has gone wrong it's my fault. And that is because for the greater proportion of my life that has been true. Like I'm always — up until I was halfway through college was kind of when I really just learned to deal with my shit.
THERAPIST: (knock on door) I'm sorry.
CLIENT: That's okay.
(inaudible conversation at [00:20:45] to 00:20:56)
THERAPIST: Sorry the (inaudible at 00:20:54) off.
CLIENT: Not to worry. Yeah like I could never turn in my homework on time. It wasn't until I hit high school that I realized if I actually did my homework and turned the piece of paper in, they would not yell at me. And it's a miracle. Suddenly nobody yelled at me. Because I just did it. [00:21:18]
THERAPIST: Yeah.
CLIENT: Like I'm the person if you give me a piece of paper I'll put it in my bag and then a month and a half later that piece of paper will be wadded up at the bottom of my bag. And it doesn't matter how important it is.
THERAPIST: Right. Gotcha.
CLIENT: And so usually it's pretty safe to assume that I did do something wrong. But — you know. So it's a combination of feeling like I'm doing something that I'm not good at and then of course if I do — if it does happen that it's not my fault then I just feel unreasonably injured. Because I feel like I'm — or when I'm working on something that I really struggle with I feel like the rest of the world should make it easy for me. (laughs) And then when they don't it's like — yeah. It's like it's that much worse. [00:22:24]
THERAPIST: Gotcha.
CLIENT: But it's not really. It's you know. People leave town and e-mails don't go through. And people forget things. And oh well.
THERAPIST: Right.
CLIENT: Yeah it used to be something that caused me like really, really intense constant anxiety. Is just not being good at logistics. Like I was always late. And that's because my family is always late for everything. Like we're — my Dad is a missionary. We were late to church every single Sunday of our lives.
THERAPIST: Mm-hmm.
CLIENT: Like just — we're still late to church when we're all together. I'm not late to church when I go by myself. But if my family is home somebody is getting in the shower 15 minutes before church starts.
THERAPIST: Mm-hmm.
CLIENT: So it's like this — I'm better at feeling like I can handle it now. But it's still — it's still kind of laden with anxiety a little bit. [00:23:40]
THERAPIST: Things to do with being organized, dealing with administrative stuff? All that?
CLIENT: Mm-hmm. Mm-hmm.
THERAPIST: Is fraught with anxiety for you're feeling sort of like bad about yourself and on the verge of being in trouble around it?
CLIENT: Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. (inaudible at 00:24:24) so this form that if she didn't send to me until Monday, I still haven't sent back to her because I meant to do it in the afternoon on Monday and then I was a in a bad spot and I just forgot. And yesterday I really didn't want to come into campus just to print out one form, sign it and then scan it again. It'd be an hour each way. [00:24:49]
THERAPIST: Mm-hmm.
CLIENT: And I just really didn't want to do that. But so instead of being like, "Well she didn't tell me I needed the form so it's okay if it takes two days to get it back to her." Reality is, "Well that's on me now." That's where I'm going after this. Then I'll be done. (pause at [00:25:10] to 00:25:34)
THERAPIST: So what else? Either about that or something else. It's whatever. It's fine. [00:25:39]
CLIENT: (pause to 00:25:48) I don't know. I'm kind of blanking. (pause at [00:25:49] to 00:26:08) I appreciate that you don't draw rapid conclusions.
THERAPIST: (chuckles)
CLIENT: Thanks.
THERAPIST: Sure.
CLIENT: I — the second time I was admitted to the hospital — I was in the E.R. And you know you kind of hang out there for awhile and then eventually they get somebody to go down and interview you.
THERAPIST: Mm-hmm.
CLIENT: And this was this young doctor. This young woman. And she was very nice. And had this probably 45 minute long interview. And I was in the E.R. I was spilling my guts. And I also was afraid I was going to kill myself. And I'm a huge mess. [00:26:56]
THERAPIST: Yeah.
CLIENT: And I had felt pretty good about how it had been going. At the very end —you know I told her like my father's a priest. I studied Bible etc. At the very end she asked a series of questions — I'm not going to try to reproduce them.
Basically it was clear that the questions were designed because she thought that I had some giant guilt complex that came from being obsessed with— that came from Christianity basically. That I studied a religion that was all about guilt. I came from a religion that was all about guilt. And so clearly all of my guilt came from that.
THERAPIST: (inaudible at 00:27:43) guilt. I see.
CLIENT: And I was just like, "No."
THERAPIST: (chuckles)
CLIENT: And she was like, "Do you think —?" And it was very funny because she was trying to work around it. Like ask like several different, leading questions. And at the first one I'm like, "Oh this is what she thinks is going on." As I'm saying, "No. No. We're done." [00:28:05]
THERAPIST: (chuckles) Uh-huh.
CLIENT: So I guess that's a way of saying, A, that's not where my problems come from. I think. I think. I mean it's — yeah.
THERAPIST: Guilt relating to religiosity?
CLIENT: Yeah because that wasn't the way — like A, that wasn't the way I was raised to be religious. B, like my being Christian now is actually a really new thing. Like within the past year. And C, that's not why I started the studying the Bible. I started studying the Bible because I love the languages and I love the stories.
THERAPIST: Yeah.
CLIENT: And it's like the academic interest came first. And then the spiritual came afterward which is good because for most people they start studying the Bible because they're faithful. And then they lose their faith in the process. [00:29:02]
THERAPIST: I see.
CLIENT: Like — yeah. I have a good friend that that's happening to now and it's really hard to watch. But to say there's that side of it and that — yeah like it's been very frustrating to me in some ways for you to be like, "Well I don't really feel like I know what's going on yet." I feel like we've been meeting for a couple of months. But I also really appreciate that. (laughs)
THERAPIST: (chuckles)
CLIENT: So yeah.
THERAPIST: Tell me about that frustrating part.
CLIENT: Oh it just — I want things to be fixed now. (laughs) I want there to be answers. I want to look at the specific problem and fix that. But — you know that doesn't seem to be your kind of major focus. Which on reflection I actually think is a good thing. Because the people that I've talked to that have said, "Well let's fix the one problem." It hasn't really helped that much. [00:30:33]
THERAPIST: It hasn't worked out.
CLIENT: Also I have other people in my life who are very good problem solvers. And so forth. But —.
THERAPIST: One thing I'm sort of — which I guess I probably made sort of clear that I'm wondering about at the moment is the extent to which you have this sort of boomerang reaction to being frustrated or disappointed with other people where you sort of pretty quickly turn around and take it out on yourself. [00:31:43]
CLIENT: Mm-hmm.
THERAPIST: (pause at [00:31:45] to 00:32:02) Or even (pause at [00:32:02] to 00:32:13) nearly kind of set up situations in such a way as to sort of point out or highlight things that make you feel bad about yourself. So an example from today.
There are a few but one that comes to mind is like the four of you — you, James, Achilles and the tortoise. (chuckles) So on one hand — I think I follow this and know what you're saying. That he was putting out to you the way that you were not behaving kind of logically or rationally —. [00:32:57]
CLIENT: Well that the feelings about myself weren't rational. Yeah.
THERAPIST: Sure. And this is like the tortoise. And then you proceeded to wonder about who this was more frustrating for — you the tortoise or James. Kind of like, "Well gee who could be having a worse time here?" A little bit of that drift. When I step back and think about that, I kind of think, "What the fuck?" I mean James has seen you through this with varying degrees of intensity for quite a long time.
I know he was sort of making an entertaining point. And this isn't new information for either of you. But there is a way that you both could kind of organize around looking, in a sort of lightly critical way, at how your feelings aren't rational. When it would seem to me the much larger story there is the intensity of your suffering and the fact that the best you can do, on a day where you've done what you set out to do, is not try to do anything else because it could make you feel horrible and suicidal. [00:34:30]
CLIENT: Mm.
THERAPIST: In a certain way I could see how James's responding like that is a tremendous disappointment relative to what's actually gone on for you during the day. And the ways in which he might be for you around that. I'm not actually intending to blame James here.
CLIENT: No I —
THERAPIST: But —
CLIENT: And that —
THERAPIST: It's sort of like —
CLIENT: That is a failing in the way that James deals with this.
THERAPIST: You're falling off a cliff and he's telling you you're not being rational. I mean that's not what's going on but I think — .
CLIENT: Uh-huh.
THERAPIST: - I could imagine it feels like that at some level to you. But I think characteristically you frame it much more in terms of where you fall short. [00:35:26]
CLIENT: Yeah. Yeah.
THERAPIST: There are other examples I can think of but that one I thought was clear.
CLIENT: That's really interesting. No thank you for — yeah thank you. Yeah because —
THERAPIST: (inaudible at 00:35:54)
CLIENT: In some ways this is one of the things that I love most about James but also makes it — one of the things that I love most about James is also one of the things that makes it hard for him to support me in this. And that is that he puts his trust in reason and to an extreme degree. And his — and he works by reason to an extreme degree. So like what he is trying to do there is understand me and help me. And he thinks that if he explains to me how I shouldn't feel this way then maybe I won't feel this way. [00:36:47]
THERAPIST: Right.
CLIENT: And both he and I know that that's bullshit.
THERAPIST: Right.
CLIENT: But he doesn't know what else to do. And that is — yeah like that's a failing on his part. And it's really hard for me to see it as a failing on his part rather than as a failing on mine.
THERAPIST: Mm-hmm.
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: Yeah when in fact you've done the very best you could that day.
CLIENT: Uh-huh.
THERAPIST: Which involved — at a moment when you were already somewhat upset — deciding, I'm going to do something that I know is going to make me feel bad at the end of the day. Because that's better than risking feeling as awful.
CLIENT: Well I knew it could or could not. Sometimes at the end of the day I just feel like I had a good day.
THERAPIST: Oh okay. Yeah.
CLIENT: But yeah. It depends it how bad I am. If I'm — the worse I am generally the faster I get to the point where I feel like I haven't been productive in long enough that I'm utterly useless. [00:37:54]
THERAPIST: Mm-hmm.
CLIENT: But yeah.
THERAPIST: Yeah. Right.
CLIENT: So that was quibbling a little bit.
THERAPIST: Yeah. You're sort of really in the trenches there.
CLIENT: Mm-hmm.
THERAPIST: With depression and real fears of suicide in a way that's avoided wholesale. In the way that the two of you talk about it later.
CLIENT: Mm-hmm.
THERAPIST: And yeah.
CLIENT: Yeah because I did avoid it. So we avoid talking about it. I know. (laughing)
THERAPIST: (laughs) Yeah.
CLIENT: Yeah. Yeah. Part of it —
THERAPIST: (inaudible at 00:38:49)
CLIENT: - I know how bad it is for me. I don't know what it's like for him. I don't know what he's feeling like. [00:38:56]
THERAPIST: Mm-hmm.
CLIENT: You know I know that he's in a period of mild to moderate depression but I don't know what other people's depression feels like to them. And so. And I worry. And I — I worry that I'm making him worse by my own suffering. And my suffering is a known quantity. How much I'm making him worse I don't know. And also that's what I value. That's what I'm more anxious to fix.
THERAPIST: Uh-huh. And I suspect there are two dimensions to that. One of which is — as far as I know from what you've told me — a realistic concern about the extent to which this weighs on him. Which makes all kinds of sense. [00:39:58]
I think I can appreciate that but I think that's not the only aspect of this. I think you (pause at [00:40:05] to 00:40:15) have a very intense sort of fear of how like destructive your taking up emotional space can be.
CLIENT: Mm-hmm. (pause at [00:40:28] to 00:40:39) Yeah. I like the way you put that. That's about right. (pause at [00:40:42] to 00:40:56) So what do I do about it? (laughter) Sorry. [00:40:58]
THERAPIST: [Well I have a list]. (inaudible at 00:41:02) (laughter)
CLIENT: (pause at [00:41:05] to 00:41:25) Yeah I mean I don't know what to say other than that's about right.
THERAPIST: Mm-hmm. Well what else comes to mind?
CLIENT: So I'm still not clear on the connections between these kinds of bureaucratic relationships and dealing with that, and relationships with [treaters] and therapists and other people who are trying to help me in various ways. And relationships with James and Franco and my sister and the people that I'm closest too. [00:42:13]
THERAPIST: Mm-hmm.
CLIENT: I'm not clear on whether there is a thread that connects that or how that is constructive.
THERAPIST: I'm sure either. Like tentatively I imagine that you are— sometimes when you're feeling them reacting to being frustrated or disappointed with the other person or institution or whatever for not being there for you in some important way or leaving you alone in some important way. It's probably not clear to you either. So —.
CLIENT: Mm.
THERAPIST: And that you then proceed to sort of reorient in terms of blaming yourself. [00:43:14]
CLIENT: Mm-hmm.
THERAPIST: I'm just not (inaudible at 00:43:18) that.
CLIENT: Yeah. Well it's kind of the evil twin of the other psychological maxim that I have found really useful. Saying, "Well you can't change anybody else. You can only change yourself."
THERAPIST: Yeah.
CLIENT: You can't — you have no control over the other person in the relationship. All you can do is change how you react to that person. Which was really helpful for me in getting out of an abusive relationship for example. Saying, "I can't make him be better. Nothing I do is going to make him be better. All I can do is change what I do." But then that's very easy to switch that into, "It's not really his fault. It's really my fault." [00:44:11]
THERAPIST: Yeah.
CLIENT: (pause at [00:44:12] to 00:44:20) Yeah.
THERAPIST: We stop for now.
CLIENT: Okay.
THERAPIST: (inaudible at 00:44:22)
CLIENT: Thank you.
THERAPIST: Yeah.
CLIENT: Have a good day.
THERAPIST: Thanks. You too. [00:44:29] [End of audio]
END TRANSCRIPT
