TRANSCRIPT OF AUDIO FILE:
______________________________________________________________________________
BEGIN TRANSCRIPT:
(silence until [00:00:04)
CLIENT: So, (pause for .03 seconds) definitely, kind of like, yeah. (pause for .02 seconds) I haven't heard from Kelly. So now I feel like I'm in this game of like, now I'm not going to text her until I hear from her. I don't know, it just sucks. (pause for .03 seconds)
So, um, (pause for .04 seconds) I'm trying not to read into that, but it's just (pause for .04 seconds) um, I had a dream last night that was really vivid and I was super angry at my mom and my family and stuff. I don't even remember a lot of the details. I remember that I couldn't remember where I parked my car, and that was really bothering me. I kept looking for it, and then um—[00:01:07]
THERAPIST: That's where the dream starts.
CLIENT: I don't remember. I just remember that was—and I also remember it wasn't my. It was some other car. And it was here but it wasn't; it was somewhere else. I was like yelling at—I don't know who—my uncle, some other people, and I was like—you know, no one asked me how I was doing. No one really cares. I was like venting or something.
I was like really angry at my mom, I was like—except that like she was complaining about something, or something—she was being selfish about something. She was super angry.
THERAPIST: Hmm.
CLIENT: (pause for .14 seconds) So, it's hard cause like those things get conflated. I really like this girl and, but I'm also dealing with all this stuff. Like it's making me extra (pause for .02 seconds) like anxious or nervous or a little bit (pause for .02 seconds) I feel like I'm already bracing myself for it not to work out. You know? That's kind of a bummer. [00:2:28]
THERAPIST: Hmm. (pause for .06 seconds) Maybe what's especially a bummer is that it ends up feeling like you're bracing yourself for a repetition of your childhood in that way.
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: It takes on the meaning of beyond just the (ph) it may not work out.
CLIENT: Right.
THERAPIST: (pause for .03 seconds) You're yelling at your mother in the dream that she's selfish. [00:03:02]
CLIENT: I don't remember but it was as if—like she was going on and on about some fucking thing about the house, or just the typical kind of thing like she does -
THERAPIST: Hmm.
CLIENT: but it was somehow extreme. I don't know—there was something about it. I don't remember exactly.
THERAPIST: Hmm. (pause for .043 seconds) And you just got tired of it and sort of was letting her know.
CLIENT: Yeah, I was telling her off and then I was like kind of telling off people in my family. I don't remember who exactly. (pause for .25 seconds) (sighs)
THERAPIST: That makes me wonder if something made you angry here too yesterday. 
CLIENT: (pause for .04 seconds) I can't think of anything. (pause for .04 seconds) No, I really think it's more that I'm—it's just—or we were saying, that I'm feeling this little bit extra anxiety because I like this girl and unlike other times, when I would just get anxious about it and then spiral out of control, now I know why I'm anxious and I know that it has nothing to do with the reality, you know.
THERAPIST: Um hmm.
CLIENT: I get all that. So that almost makes it harder, cause now I just see that: wow, I'm just—like I said before, right?—then I just see that I'm just fucked up. You know, so that just makes it hard.
THERAPIST: Hmm. [00:04:53]
CLIENT: Um, (pause for .05 seconds) but there are, I mean, yeah, there are—I don't know. Like today, yesterday, today—there are some more negative voices; like there are those voices like, "If this one doesn't work out, I don't know what to tell ya." You know, there are like those voices going on now.
THERAPIST: Hmm.
CLIENT: You know, they're like, "If this doesn't work out with this girl, you're too tired to try anymore." I'm just like, I don't know, (pause for .03 seconds) it's just sad. (pause for .09 seconds) But (sighs) but also it just kind of annoy me that I haven't heard from her.
THERAPIST: Hmm.
CLIENT: In that way, some of it is—like I do feel like it's her. I don't know. You don't—usually when girls are really into me, I fucking hear from them. You know what I mean?
THERAPIST: Um hmm.
CLIENT: So I don't know if she's not a big texter—or she's also (pause for .02 seconds) not playing a game—but also kind of, you know. (whispers) I don't know. [00:06:04]
Cause like in person she's totally there, you know. It's awesome. So I don't know if she's just not a big texter, or then when she's not with me she also feels like she's kind of—and also who knows? Maybe I'm coming across as aloof. You know what I mean? I don't know.
THERAPIST: Um hmm, um hmm.
CLIENT: I don't fucking know. (sighs) (pause for .12 seconds)
THERAPIST: What you know is there's a way of her not being there, even if it's for 24 hours of texting, that feels personal.
CLIENT: Right.
THERAPIST: It might be, but it also might not be. You're aware, you know, how much could be about something else intellectually, but it doesn't feel that way. 
CLIENT: Um hmm, yeah.
THERAPIST: (pause for .03 seconds) It feels how you felt as a child. [00:07:08]
CLIENT: Right. (pause for .55 seconds) (whispering) I don't know. (pause for .02 seconds) (normal voice) It's just very tiring. I don't want that feeling. [00:08:10]
It's a very heavy, kind of tiring feeling, you know? It's just hard to, um -
THERAPIST: Hmm.
CLIENT: cause especially—it's like being in molasses or something, cause you know it's not going to go away tomorrow. And that doesn't, (pause for .04 seconds) (sighs) (pause for .16 seconds) And again, the thing is like (pause for .02 seconds) I'm 90 percent sure that everything's fine, you know what I mean?
It's like, you know, it's so—it bothers me that I—she's not sitting around thinking about me. She has a child; she has a child (laughs); she's going to South Carolina to see her family, who she hasn't seen in ten years or something. It's like, I hate that idea that I'm hurt if people aren't thinking of me all the time or something—you know what I mean?
And showing me that they're thinking of me all the time; that's not—that's just not the way things work, you know. [00:09:32]
THERAPIST: Hmm.
CLIENT: It's like, you know, —
THERAPIST: Well not only though is it not the way things work, it doesn't—it doesn't solve what's inside.
CLIENT: Oh, yeah, that's what I was going to say. And let's say it continues to go well; it's not going to matter. I'm going to be in here all the time saying the same things I'm saying right now.
THERAPIST: Yes.
CLIENT: 'I haven't heard from her in a day. I don't know—she hasn't texted me in two days.' Like, look, I mean, you know (pause for .02 seconds)—[00:10:04]
THERAPIST: And the date's gone well (ph) for eight hours, and then she looks tired when she leaves -
CLIENT: Right.
THERAPIST: and then that becomes the thing that you hold on to.
CLIENT: Right, right.
THERAPIST: Then it's not—it doesn't matter how long the positive's gone on: it's just not there.
CLIENT: Right.
THERAPIST: It's the separation that you're back to this feeling inside.
CLIENT: Right. (pause for .26 seconds)
THERAPIST: I wonder who she is in your history? I mean, is that your relationship with your mother? [00:11:01]
CLIENT: What do you mean?
THERAPIST: Um, I just wonder how concretely you connect it with her being there, showing signs of love and then those go away.
CLIENT: My mom?
THERAPIST: Yeah.
CLIENT: What do you mean? Like -
THERAPIST: Um —
CLIENT: Like did I feel a real connection with her when I was little?
THERAPIST: Yeah.
CLIENT: Yeah. I think I did. Yeah. (pause for .02 seconds) But, again, it was just the kind of connection that you—that's inherent. I mean, that's primal. How could you not feel that connection (laughs), you know? But there was no, like, talking or—you know what I mean?
THERAPIST: Um hmm. It wasn't with words of affection, you mean?
CLIENT: Well, no, but what I mean in terms of like, "What did you do in school today?" The nurturing, the kind of talking that prepares you for life. [00:12:00]
It was more like, "Did you do your homework? Great," like, you know, or, "Eat apples. You're not eating enough fruit. You should eat more fruit." You know, all the motherly kind of stuff, but no—whatever the other stuff is called. Like no -
THERAPIST: No getting to know you. 
CLIENT: Yeah, yeah. (pause for .04 seconds) Yeah. In that way, the same with my dad. I mean, my dad wasn't that much better than that, I just felt closer to him. I just liked him better in his personality. But it wasn't like my dad pulled me aside and asked me if I had girlfriends, or what's going on. Nah. 
Maybe he would've, if he lived—I don't know, but I was 19. We'd never had any kind of conversation like that. Now it could've been—at that point, I was already so shy and closed off that maybe he felt, like, you know what I mean? [00:13:01]
I'm not blaming myself, but I'm just saying that maybe at that point it was almost like—not too late—but you know, I think my dad knew how shy and kind of, whatever I was, and maybe he thought it's better to just—that was his style anyways. Just like: No, just let things be. 
THERAPIST: (pause for .06 seconds) You feel alone.
CLIENT: Yeah, yeah. (pause for .14 seconds)
THERAPIST: You know, in a way, the stuff you're calling 'motherly stuff'—making sure the kid's fed and has the right clothing on—it's bullet points (ph) on taking care of someone but it doesn't overall give a sense of really being loved. [00:14:06]
Like someone who just—you feel like loves to be around you; and wants to know all that; wants to share your every waking moment; and wants to know everything about what's going on in your mind -
CLIENT: Well, like, it's funny—like you're blowing my mind right now cause you know what I just realized? I don't know what that feels like then, you know what I mean? Maybe that's the issue. I don't know how else to describe—do you know what I mean? Like I don't know what that is that you're talking about. [00:14:31]
THERAPIST: Hmm.
CLIENT: It's kind of like my friend, Stu, when he first got together with my friend, Jess: they had a little bumpy time when he told her that he wasn't sure what being in love felt like. You know, she was feeling kind of nervous that he was—whatever. And this is kind of similar. I don't know what that is. Those relationships with parents—I just didn't have. Yeah. [00:14:56]
THERAPIST: (pause for .03 seconds) Yeah, it sounds like it's more utilitarian, the relationship. They provided functions that were -
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: kept you alive -
CLIENT: Right, right.
THERAPIST: but it's not -
CLIENT: Well, I mean, they'd be horrified to hear that, of course. I mean, there was love in terms of like kissing and hugging, you know, there was love. Bu, yeah, it didn't go beyond that. So there was no—like, who are you? What, as you're developing, what's going on? Who are your friends at school? Or, I don't know—girls, or the music, or whatever.
Like, they're just—or it would be taken to this place I didn't want to go. Like, it was like, "Oh music? Well, then maybe we should get you started on violin lessons." Like they would immediately go to like to this very cookie cutter—and I think for other kids that would've been good, you know. But it just, it wasn't me. 
Even at a young age, I was like I don't want to sit there—I'm like teaching myself piano. I don't think I want to sit there playing chopsticks or learning what the notes are. It's like I'm doing—I'm actually creating—like I want to -
So even that stuff; it was just kind of like (pause for .07 seconds) yeah (pause for .03 seconds)—[00:16:28]
THERAPIST: There's no, um, or very little recognition of you.
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: There's, "Okay. We got to get you violin lessons."
CLIENT: Right, right.
THERAPIST: That's not what you're actually saying about yourself.
CLIENT: Right.
THERAPIST: It gets brought to a place -
CLIENT: Well also there's no moment of, "Holy shit! You're talented!" You know—never. Ever, ever, ever. So (sighs) (whispers) It's like (pause for .03 seconds) (normal voice) And again that one I blame my dad too. My dad never (pause for .02 seconds)—he didn't take a stand on any of that stuff. He wasn't vocal about any of that. I guess his whole thing was: hey, my kid's doing great in school. He's a good kid. [00:17:10]
THERAPIST: Hmm.
CLIENT: You know, I guess. I don't know, but (pause for .04 seconds) -
THERAPIST: He didn't know your talents, you know.
CLIENT: I don't think so, which is mind-boggling to me. Mind-boggling. I mean when your kid is sitting at the piano, that you can clearly hear—it's in the same fucking house—and he's just making shit up. And this is when I wanted to be a composer, not just a rock guy. I mean, like—what the fuck?
I mean, I'm sure it was all shitty stuff I was playing, but I was playing it without any lessons, you know. That's just—it's unbelievable to me that there was no (pause for .02 seconds) I don't know.
THERAPIST: What would you play then, when you're -
CLIENT: I would make shit up. I was making up compositions.
THERAPIST: Hmm.
CLIENT: You know. [00:17:59]
THERAPIST: Chords, two-handed —
CLIENT: Yeah. 
THERAPIST: Everything.
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: Wow. 
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: Wow.
CLIENT: Yep. I'd record them. I wonder where all those fucking tapes are now, but -
THERAPIST: You'd record them?
CLIENT: Oh yeah. I was serious about recording, yeah. I would make all these recordings, and then as I got a little bit older and I thought I was being all like avant garde or whatever, I'd record all these weird sounds and mix them together with the piano. Um, weird synthesizer sounds and sounds from outside -
THERAPIST: Hmm.
CLIENT: (pause for .03 seconds) It's like what 16 year-old kid—it's like, c'mon man. 
THERAPIST: (pause for .02 seconds) Even if they miss your talent, which seems so clear, they're also missing just your interests.
CLIENT: Yeah, right, right.
THERAPIST: Also a kid who's self-motivated in a direction and -
CLIENT: Well, but to them -
THERAPIST: and you don't even have to tell him what to do.
CLIENT: but to them, that's not an immigrant mentality. That's like you're wasting your interests and your energies because there's no practical future in that. (pause for .07 seconds)
THERAPIST: And yet you have an aunt who is an opera singer. [00:19:22]
CLIENT: Yeah, but that would be the example. They'd be like: See. You know, look what happens.
THERAPIST: Cause she couldn't make a living you mean?
CLIENT: Well, it's a back—it's all a backwards way of thinking, of course. My aunt, if she just had some balls—she was a young girl when she got here, and beautiful. It's not about her, it's her husband who didn't let her—do you know what I mean? But they twist that around—I mean now they see it—but when I was little it would be like, I mean, it would just be, I don't know—they would just use it as a way to deter me, you know? [00:19:57]
THERAPIST: As proof of why -
CLIENT: Yeah, as proof of -
THERAPIST: why it was a waste of time.
CLIENT: Yeah, or my mom would like, "Oh, poetry—oh poetry. Nah, nah (ph)" Again, not considering I'm an American. I'm not writing fucking poems in Assyrian. And I'm not singing opera that no one gives a shit about. That's a much harder thing to break through in, you know. Yeah, and it's (pause for .02 seconds) -
THERAPIST: Or even if your aunt—even if it's not a guarantee that if only she had encouragement she would've succeeded, right? It's slim to none that you do. Even very, very, very talented people don't succeed in that world. But that gets used as sort of (ph) that that's the desire then -
CLIENT: Yeah, that's it. Yeah, yeah, yeah.
THERAPIST: They're supposed to just go for it.
CLIENT: You can't do things because you enjoy doing them.
THERAPIST: Yeah.
CLIENT: That's the end thing.
THERAPIST: Or because you're really talented and you have a shot—not a guarantee, but a shot —
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: if you really work hard. Like that's not—
CLIENT: Well, yeah, no, I never even got that.
THERAPIST: No.
CLIENT: No, no. I mean, I get it now but now it doesn't matter. I'm already doing it—I don't need them. Um, (pause for .02 seconds) yeah, it's pathetic. (pause for .08 seconds) [00:21:19]
THERAPIST: And writing too—I mean, it (pause for .02 seconds) they didn't know?
CLIENT: Well they didn't understand it. 
(inaudible at 00:21:28] both parties speaking at the same time)
CLIENT: Yeah, they didn't understand it. My mom still doesn't. She reads my poetry—and now it bothers her. She's like, "I wish I understood. You know, I don't —" So it's hard to understand for what is good poetry and what is bad—you know what I mean? She doesn't quite know.
THERAPIST: But in Assyrian would she know?
CLIENT: Oh, no, in Assyrian my mom is like a fucking world-class intellectual, yeah.
THERAPIST: You never write in Assyrian?
CLIENT: No. I never wrote in Assyrian.
THERAPIST: Hmm. Never anything?
CLIENT: Never.
THERAPIST: Huh. [00:21:58]
CLIENT: I'm not good enough to—my Assyrian—my writing skills are, you know, high school or less. So it's not—I wouldn't be able to communicate what I want.
THERAPIST: Hmm.
CLIENT: I mean, especially in poetry. I could write, just write something, but in poetry you have to absolutely master the language.
THERAPIST: It's so striking that it becomes another communication barrier to who you are.
CLIENT: Um hmm. Well that was always the other issue. Right, there was no—I couldn't express certain things in Assyrian cause it sounded weird to say those things in Assyrian, and they didn't speak to me in English. So it was just weird; this cultural, schizophrenic kind of stuff.
THERAPIST: (pause for .02 seconds) It becomes another way you can miss, you can miss a person. [00:23:01]
CLIENT: Yeah. (pause for .02 seconds) Well, and yeah, and it's another way of feeling lonely, you know—
THERAPIST: Yes.
CLIENT: cause when you're with your American friends they don't know all of this stuff, you know; and then with your family, they don't know that stuff. It's just like (pause for .07 seconds) -
THERAPIST: Straddling morals (ph)
CLIENT: (pause for .05 seconds) (heavy sigh) (pause for .11 seconds) And then like, you know, I was going to go to college. I left high school a year early—I told you—and all that. I wanted to go to a new school—the new school for—I wanted to go to college -
THERAPIST: Hmm.
CLIENT: When I look back on it, yeah I was shy and that—but I had my shit together. I knew the schools I should go to, but I didn't have—maybe if I had siblings or if I had that extra—I would've put my foot down and be like: I am going. But I couldn't, I just couldn't, like (pause for .08 seconds) [00:24:21]
Well, and also, maybe that wouldn't have worked anyway. I mean, I went to school and I came back, you know, because I was ill-prepared. If I had moved to the city—are you kidding? I would've been like a little boy. I wouldn't have known how to handle myself.
THERAPIST: When you say "I couldn't"—what comes up in your mind that might have stopped you?
CLIENT: I just, I just didn't have a backing—it was just me. And for some reason, I didn't have the—I was either scared or they convinced me that was just too—and it was. It was very expensive to go to those schools.
THERAPIST: Um hmm.
CLIENT: I was a boy. Like, I couldn't—you know what I mean? And those things seemed like fantasy land. They seemed—when I would get their catalogs—they just seemed like, not attainable somehow. [00:25:11]
When in retrospect, of course they were attainable. A kid that left high school a year early, and all these compositions—of course they would've taken me. One of them would've taken me, you know. But I just—something in me just—you know, I think that kind of shit fucks you up in the sense that (pause for .02 seconds) as much as I wanted to get away, a part of me didn't want to get away.
I was used to—there was still something cozier, like when you're in that bubble, it's like—
THERAPIST: Sure.
CLIENT: between the language and the food and the whole, like you're in this little bubble of culture that as much as it sucked, I was I think really scared and—who knows? I don't remember exactly. I just found ways to not apply—to not even try. [00:26:00]
And that's (pause for .02 seconds) that's a hard one because that makes me angry at myself—you know what I mean? That I started—I started from—but, yeah, all these artists that I love—they didn't give a shit. They fucking left home when they were 17 and they never looked back—you know?
So I hate that—that makes it worse, you know. And I know it's stupid. That's neither here nor there, but that's what I end up thinking. And then so I start, "Well, maybe I'm not a real artist"—I mean, I know I am, but I start getting upset that—fuck, like you know—I'm just such a late bloomer, you know, with all this shit. (pause for .05 seconds) -
THERAPIST: Well, there's an idealization of the artists who just pulled out at (ph) -
CLIENT: Well maybe, yeah there is, but there also is something about it, right? I mean, there is something to be said for people that—and I mean, their lives are miserable, miserable -
THERAPIST: Anyway.
CLIENT: right, their lives—right, right. [00:27:00]
And then they go to a big city or whatever and they're fucking homeless, so they're—I mean, really hard times. But in terms of just the art—that's, that makes them who they are—and they end up making like earth-shattering works of art. A lot of them don't, right? For everyone that we know there's hundreds and hundreds and thousands, or whatever, but that's always been my standard for myself.
In that way, it's weird. That's why I'm like my grandmother. Like I believe in myself, you know what I mean? Like, I know that I have something to offer. I don't know how (pause for .02 seconds) you know, like it's not better or worse than—but I have faith that I have something worthwhile, you know?
So (pause for .03 seconds) I'm not sure what I'm saying, but -
THERAPIST: I just, I don't know exactly who you're referring to in specific biographies in there (ph) or specific individuals but there's been no one in your history who is encouraging, you know. And I wonder about the people who just break out anyway—there's often someone in their life, somewhere -
CLIENT: Well -
THERAPIST: even if it's an aunt or -
CLIENT: Yeah, it's either that or it's actually the opposite. Their—you know—their family lives are so bad -
THERAPIST: Yes, so it's easy to leave.
CLIENT: It's easy to leave. Things are so—they're on their own; no one's taking care of them, so they're already kind of—my situation was weird because, you know, on the surface it's a very loving, put-together home. There's no reasons (sic) for me to try to get away, on the surface, you know. So, yeah, that's the issue: not having anyone really encourage me. It's easy to stay, type of thing—you know what I mean?—at that age. 
THERAPIST: Um hmm. Well, then also being fed the ideas that you won't make it out there; it's a big bad world; or they don't like our kind, or -
CLIENT: Right, right, right. [00:29:00]
THERAPIST: Now, this was filled in your head—your head was filled with these ideas. Even if a part of you knows this can't be true -
CLIENT: Right, right.
THERAPIST: it's—you're surrounded by this fantasy that helps keep you at home.
CLIENT: (whispers) Right.
THERAPIST: Stay with us; it's safe here.
CLIENT: (whispers) Right.
THERAPIST: You know? And safe is better that terrified -
CLIENT: (whispers) Right.
THERAPIST: for anyone.
CLIENT: (heavy sigh) (pause for .03 seconds) Yeah. (pause for .05 seconds) (normal voice) That's hard. Like, it gives you a sick—it's giving me an anxiety attack.
THERAPIST: Hmm.
CLIENT: (heavy sigh) 
THERAPIST: What part—do you know? Do you know what you were just picturing: leaving? staying? (ph)
CLIENT: No. Nothing. It just feels claustrophobic. I guess, what I'm saying is it just feels so heavy and endless —
THERAPIST: Hmm.
CLIENT: dysfunction, or whatever. It just feels (pause for .02 seconds) claustrophobic. [00:30:06]
THERAPIST: (pause for .16 seconds) Well it's also, in a way, what was safe was also tremendously smothering -
CLIENT: Right.
THERAPIST: of yourself.
CLIENT: Right.
THERAPIST: I mean that's a claustrophobical (ph) kind of -
CLIENT: Right.
THERAPIST: it's a solution in the moment but it also's (sic) choking you.
CLIENT: (whispers) Yeah.
THERAPIST: for twenty years.
CLIENT: (pause for .15 seconds) (heavy sigh) (pause for .15 seconds) I don't know why I thought of this but it's somehow tied in. It's funny—I've been experimenting on Facebook. [00:31:20]
THERAPIST: Um hmm.
CLIENT: I hadn't noticed that I kept like chatting with certain people I know on there, and one day I was like, "What am I doing?" I think I'm trying to just not be alone. I'm trying not to feel lonely, and so I stopped. And wouldn't you know it—I don't hear from those people.
THERAPIST: Hmm.
CLIENT: You know, it's like, you know, it's (pause for .10 seconds) -
THERAPIST: It doesn't feel very good.
CLIENT: No, it doesn't. But it doesn't—well, I think what doesn't feel good is that initially I was so, you know, I mean, in a way—why should they? I mean we're not best friends. I mean, one or two of them—it is a bummer not to hear from them. [00:32:09]
But mostly it's like, well yeah; why was I chatting so much with them anyway? I was just trying, you know, not to feel lonely. (pause for .05 seconds) And also trying to like, you know, I've just been having all this nervous energy.
THERAPIST: Um hmm.
CLIENT: And so it's like, I just (sighs) (pause for .06 seconds) but I think that's all part of this. It's just like—I'm just getting used to, like, well—you know that's a healthy thing. Yeah, I can't—everybody doesn't hear from certain people, you know what I mean? It's not like other people are constantly being inundated by their friends all the time, reaching out to—I'm lucky that I have the friends I have. [00:33:02]
People don't have that, so it's clearly not about any of that, you know, so and I think that's why I stopped. I was, like, you know, this isn't healthy. If I'm not going to hear from people, then I've got to be good with that, and be okay with that. Sort of thinking it's something, or you know—why aren't they getting in touch with me? Or (pause for .02 seconds) who cares?
You know, the people who are going to get—the important people will get in touch with you anyway—that are important in your life. But again, it's just like old stuff. It has nothing to do with (pause for .09 seconds) -
THERAPIST: What you're saying is that it became suddenly clearer to you that this has been playing out of some sort of unconscious fantasy -
CLIENT: Right.
THERAPIST: of being—this is a harsh way of putting it—being more important to these people than you actually are.
CLIENT: Right, right. [00:34:01]
THERAPIST: Like the fantasy of being more important to your parents than—in action—what might have happened for you.
CLIENT: Right, right.
THERAPIST: And when you're just making some sort of distant acquaintances (ph) on the Internet, that's all it is.
CLIENT: Right.
THERAPIST: And it's terribly sad to feel you're not as important as you thought you were -
CLIENT: Right.
THERAPIST: but it's also a little freeing -
CLIENT: It's kind of liberating, yeah. It's kind of like, "Oh! Fuck you."
THERAPIST: You don't need that so much.
CLIENT: (whispers) Who cares? (pause for .12 seconds) (sighs) (pause for .32 seconds) (sighs) (pause for .38 seconds) [00:36:00]
It's weird, like, I don't want to go to my family Thanksgiving next week. Just not looking forward to it—I don't know why. Like same old shit, cause if they talk politics, it's going to drive me insane.
THERAPIST: Hmm. 
CLIENT: Like I just (pause for .10 seconds) —
THERAPIST: Where will it be?
CLIENT: At my uncle's house. (pause for .02 seconds) It'll probably be fine. Right now I'm just not—whatever. I'm sure it will be fine. (pause for .40 seconds) (sighs) (pause for .53 seconds)
THERAPIST: Where are you?
CLIENT: (sighs) I'm just drifting—thinking a million things at the same time, and thinking about nothing at the same time. (sighs) I was just thinking: Thank God for my apartment. Thank God I have that. I feel so comfortable and (pause for .05 seconds) that's a big thing, you know, when you're like grappling with things. Like when you go home, you're looking forward to being home, you know. It makes a big difference. (pause for .10 seconds)
THERAPIST: It sounds a little bit though like that's kind of safe cocoon where no one can get you. [00:39:03]
CLIENT: Yeah, that's the thing: I don't want it to be like that, but I don't think it is like that. I mean, I go out; I do, you know—I'm happy to do things; it's just if I'm feeling kind of tired, just overloaded, it's just nice to know—alright, but that's okay. I'm going to go home and decompress. Whereas before it was like that—when I first started seeing you—you know, that same apartment was cluttered and had books everywhere.
THERAPIST: Um hmm.
CLIENT: It was awful. And that was like just escaping—but now, it's nice and clean. It's very spartan. It's very—you know, it feels like a home. It feels like a comfortable place (pause for .03 seconds) so that's, that's I think, very good. [00:39:58]
THERAPIST: (pause for .23 seconds) I was thinking yesterday, after you left, um, why I mixed up in my mind Nosferatu and Nostradamus—do you remember that?
CLIENT: Um hmm.
THERAPIST: Cause I was picturing Nosferatu and I was thinking about how the prediction of the future and fate -
CLIENT: Um hmm.
THERAPIST: kind of how much that's a part of the story, and you come in today with this feeling like it's sort of like fate's taking over again: that's right. I'm doomed to be alone -
CLIENT: Right. [00:41:04]
THERAPIST: and, cause if this one doesn't work out -
CLIENT: Right.
THERAPIST: I'm just not trying anymore. I will have met my fate.
CLIENT: Right.
THERAPIST: And that with Nosferatu, this image of this kind of—I don't know, he's kind of a sad character in addition to being terrifying. 
CLIENT: Um hmm.
THERAPIST: Of a—I don't know—it makes me wonder about a kind of self-image in some unconscious way -
CLIENT: Um hmm.
THERAPIST: that there's a part of you that is deep down that is doomed to be alone because of how monstrous it is, or how unlovable it is, or how scary it is—or, you know, whatever form that takes.
CLIENT: Hmm.
THERAPIST: Those thoughts were blended in my mind. I wasn't thinking about it consciously.
CLIENT: Hmm. Yeah.
THERAPIST: I wasn't sure that what I came up with was -
CLIENT: No, no. Right, that's true. And it's even more telling because, of course, he was wrong about all of his stupid predictions. (laughs) [00:42:01]
THERAPIST: (laughs)
CLIENT: So (pause for .04 seconds) but, yeah, and then with Nosferatu—that is interesting, because as scary and grotesque as that character was, from what I remember there's also something kind of sad about him, you know.
THERAPIST: Hmm.
CLIENT: It wasn't the typical kind of, Dracula—I don't know. He was definitely kind of sinister and all that, but there was also something, ah (pause for .03 seconds) -
THERAPIST: Something so much more complex in his affect that just this scary demon.
CLIENT: Yeah, yeah, yeah. It's not like just some cape or a guy in a tuxedo.
THERAPIST: Count Dracula.
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: No.
CLIENT: It's almost more like he has a deformity. He's hunched-backed with the weird fingers and that weird head. [00:42:58]
THERAPIST: Yes.
CLIENT: (pause for .03 seconds) Actually that's a really good point because in Nosferatu—he doesn't seduce anyone. From what I remember, they're disgusted. Whereas with Dracula—that's the whole point. He hypnotizes them and he charms them.
THERAPIST: Hmm. (pause for .16 seconds) Try and sync (ph) these two sides of you—the Dracula and Nosferatu -
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: images. (pause for .42 seconds) So I'll be in touch about a time for Monday—[00:44:23]
CLIENT: Okay. Sounds good.
THERAPIST: I don't know if I can get us a permanent time. I also know that Wednesday I can do 1:20.
CLIENT: Oh right, cause of Thursday.
THERAPIST: Cause we're not doing Thursday Friday.
CLIENT: Right.
THERAPIST: Um -
CLIENT: Yeah, Wednesday's fine.
THERAPIST: I also have an 8:00 am but I don't think that you would want to do anything (laughs) -
CLIENT: Yeah, Wednesday at 1:20? Okay, I'll mark that.
THERAPIST: Do you want me to write it down?
CLIENT: Yeah, yeah.
THERAPIST: Yes? Write it down?
CLIENT: Oh, for me? Oh no, it's okay. I'll put it in my file.
THERAPIST: Okay.
CLIENT: So Wednesday at 1:20.
THERAPIST: Yeah.
CLIENT: Thanks. Have a good weekend.
THERAPIST: You too. [00:44:58]
END TRANSCRIPT
