Transcript of Audio File:
______________________________________________________________________________
BEGIN TRANSCRIPT:
CLIENT: I still hate my research even though I'm not interested in being mostly productive all day today. I did not manage that yesterday after I left here. I went to lunch, got distracted by a store in the mall, bought a couple of stacks of craft paper and spent the afternoon alternately playing games and making things which I guess there are worse ways to waste my time. (pause)
THERAPIST: Did you think it would help you feel any better?
CLIENT: It distracted me from feeling like crap until I realized that it was (inaudible) work done and then I had an anxiety attack. Actually, I've been working productively all day today (pause) and I still don't have results to show my advisor because there are just a gazillion steps to getting this done and I made a checklist with 14 steps and I'm on about number three right now. (pause) So I don't know what I'm going to tell her tomorrow. It's not done. I'm just really upset with myself because this could have been done a month ago if I hadn't wasted my time. (sigh)
(silence from [00:01:33] to 00:01:54)
THERAPIST: What are you anticipating as far as how the meeting will go?
CLIENT: I don't know. She was really displeased with me. She was very, among other things, she said that she (pause) wasn't going to [bow every evening] (ph) in encouraging me to get a paper done by the March 15th deadline, that she didn't think I could do it, and that she didn't think I had a thesis sort of work done, that I had painted myself into a corner and she didn't think I was going to graduate. So, I don't know. I can't really do much in three days to fix an opinion that's that low, you know? (sigh) And I don't know that I can keep up with this level of productivity. If I could be as productive every work day from now until April 13 as I was today I might stand a chance but I don't know that I can. (sigh) [00:03:02]
The real reason why I got anything done today was because Dave was working from home and sitting in the same room as me and kept looking over my shoulder and telling me to stop fucking around and get to work.
(silence from [00:03:17] to 00:03:31)
THERAPIST: I would imagine he's possibly worried.
CLIENT: Yeah.
(silence from [00:03:35] to 00:03:56)
THERAPIST: Are you?
CLIENT: Worried about getting my thesis done?
THERAPIST: Getting your thesis done, your safety...I would imagine that's mostly what he's worried about, probably 100 times more than your thesis.
CLIENT: You can see where my priorities are. (chuckle) (sigh) I don't know. I definitely feel a lot better and a lot safer than I did Tuesday.
THERAPIST: Good! (pause) Yeah, that's why I'm sort of asking about the meeting tomorrow because that's really sort of what most immediately triggered things on Tuesday, right?
CLIENT: Yeah.
(silence from [00:04:48] to 00:05:13)
THERAPIST: I imagine it felt pretty good to get some work done today.
CLIENT: Yeah, a little. Now a part of me wants to say, "Okay, I did some work, now I get to play," but there's still all this work that has to get done by tomorrow and I don't know. (pause)
THERAPIST: Well... (silence from [00:05:37] to 00:05:55) What do you think would be most helpful in terms of sort of allowing yourself to do fun things versus keeping up the work? In other words, (pause) given that you're not going to get to step 14, does it matter if you're at step five or step six when you meet with...do you know what I mean?
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: There's that. There's also the question of do you just need a break from the work? Are you going to be sort of (pause) just unhappy and frustrated if you get back to it or are you going to feel better if you let yourself do something? I mean, I don't know. I just see that there are a bunch of questions about that.
CLIENT: I'm really bad at that whole thing, projects. There's a part of me that very deeply believes that I should sit down and work on something until it's done and not get up until it's done and this is part of why I have a hard time getting going on big projects because I know it's going to be this 20 hour slog. But even with personal projects, like knitting projects, I get very upset if I can't finish a piece in one sitting which is obviously impossible for a large number of things. [00:07:19]
THERAPIST: Right, even knitting a handkerchief I would think.
CLIENT: Yeah, so with knitting a projects I at least have managed to convince myself that finishing one row counts as done and on some projects, actually, there was a wedding ring shawl that I worked on — it was a six foot by six foot shawl that was fine enough that you could fold it up and pull the whole thing through a wedding ring, hence the name — where a single row would take an hour and half to do. On a scarf, a row would take 15 minutes.
THERAPIST: What were doing, you were knitting it?
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: Wow, I didn't know (inaudible).
CLIENT: Takes a hell of a lot of time practicing the skill. (laughter)
THERAPIST: What sort of ceremony was that for?
CLIENT: Oh, it was just for fun. I was using a very, very simplified version of a pattern that was used for Queen Victoria's wedding, a shawl/veil thing from the 1800s. The one that was used back in the royal wedding took a team of 20 skilled laborers about a year and a half to make.
THERAPIST: Oh my God! Wow! [00:08:43]
CLIENT: Yeah. And that was their full time job where I'm doing this as a hobby. But that was an enormously painful project for me to work on because I couldn't just sit down and finish it. (chuckle) But yeah, I'm just bad at pausing things and saying, "It's okay to do a chunk and then come back and do another chunk." (pause)
THERAPIST: Yeah I get the image that you kind of need someone there saying, "It's okay, you've done a lot. Think of how much work that is, all the stitches. You'll feel better when you come back to it. After a few minutes, you'll probably enjoy — I would imagine — taking a break, doing something else." Does that sort of thing help?
CLIENT: A little bit, not as much as it should. [00:09:40]
THERAPIST: I see. How do you feel then...like, I get that, "Okay, I'm here. You're sitting here, you should be finishing this. What the hell? You've only been working for 17 hours. Look at how much more left there is to do." What else?
CLIENT: What do you mean "what else?"
THERAPIST: Like (pause) what other thoughts do you have about things like that at times like that? I mean, I would imagine there's a lot more berating that goes on.
CLIENT: Right. (sigh) Yeah, I don't know. I keep coming back to this not wanting to put something down and I'm baffled by it but it still exists, especially with problem sets, homework assignments for classes. You've got one problem set but that problem set has eight different problems. And you could a problem a day but I don't like to do that. I do...(sigh) And I can't even bring myself to sit down and say, "I'm only going to do problem three," because there's a part of me that just knows it's either all or nothing. Either I sit down and get it all done in one sitting, which could take 12 hours. I don't do it. And I don't understand that part of me that wants everything to be all or nothing and it's remarkably frustrating for me and I get very angry at myself for that. [00:11:14]
But again, I don't know how to interrupt it because intellectually I know these are eight completely different problems that are on the same material but they don't build off of each other. They are separate problems. I can pick one and any one of these problems will take me two hours and that's a reasonable amount of work. But then I avoid doing it and I avoid doing it because in my head it's a 16 hour project and then I sit down and I get started on problem three and then I just don't stop at problem three and I just keep working and do however many problems I can get done before I fall asleep exhausted at my desk. It's just... (sigh)
I seem completely unable to regulate myself in this way. It's not even that I won't do it. It's that once I get started on it I won't stop. (pause) It's just remarkably frustrating. (pause)
THERAPIST: Again, I'm not quite sure what the feeling is when you're in the middle of it, whether it's like you're afraid of the kind of beating you'll give yourself I you stop or whether it's different. It's more like you just really want to finish. You want to see it all through, you want to get it all done, which is kind of different. Do you know what I mean? [00:12:47]
CLIENT: Right. I mean, (pause) I think sometimes it's that it's just that interesting and absorbing that I want to keep going but most of the time it's just a "Well now I have momentum and I'm not stuck and I might as well take advantage of this and keep going until the tank is completely empty because I may not get another wave of energy like this to ride."
THERAPIST: I see, like you're rolling and you don't want to stop because you don't know when you'll next get on a roll.
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: (pause) So it sounds like it's proven by, kind of, fear about not being able to work. I mean, which I understand is not completely rational in that it is often very hard to get started working. I know that's not out of nowhere but tough, that's what it is.
CLIENT: Right.
THERAPIST: (pause) Because it's sort of ironic in that it's hard to stop working because you know how hard it could be to start working. (chuckle)
CLIENT: Yeah. (silence from [00:14:03] to 00:14:20) It's like a letter press or some other big machine like the old style individual lead type presses, have a fly wheel that you have to push and kick to get started, to start the machine going, and it takes a good 15 minutes to get that fly wheel up to speed. And once it's going the plates are coming together and coming apart and inking themselves and everything is moving and it takes an enormous amount of energy to stop the fly wheel once it's going.
(silence from [00:14:51] to 00:15:06)
Yeah, I'm a trained letter press journeyman also. So I don't know if you're familiar with that particular piece of equipment.
THERAPIST: No, not at all.
CLIENT: The sort of press Ben Franklin would have used. There's one at Harvard that I had access to that I was trained on.
THERAPIST: So tell me a little more about it.
CLIENT: So there's a plate of ink and a roller and an iron frame where you can lock in your lead type and then so there's kind of a plate with lead types that's been lined up and locked in. And then there's a plate parallel to it where you put in the paper and so as the machine goes the roller goes over the ink, onto the lead type, and back up.
THERAPIST: Wait, [let me be sure I know] (ph), the roller goes over the plate...
CLIENT: It goes over the ink and gets covered in ink and it goes over the lead type and transfers the ink onto the type. And then it goes back up. And then the two plates come together and so you've got paper on one plate and lead type on the other, and when the two plates press themselves together, the ink transfers to the paper. And then you have about a four second gap when the plates are open for you to reach your hand in, snatch out that sheet of paper, and put another sheet of paper in.
THERAPIST: I see. [00:16:28]
CLIENT: Yeah. It's a manual hand-fed kind of thing.
THERAPIST: And what's up with the fly wheel?
CLIENT: The fly wheel is what keeps it going. The fly wheel is connected via gears to all of the moving parts and you turn the fly wheel to get the parts moving because the machine predates electricity.
THERAPIST: Right, so I guess what I'm imagining is that the fly wheel is some sort of fairly heavy...
CLIENT: Yeah, it's as tall as I am and cast iron.
THERAPIST: Oh! Like, the diameter is your height?
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: Right, the weight's probably on the outside to increase the torque.
CLIENT: Yep, you took physics! (laughter)
THERAPIST: (chuckle) Yes, I took physics. Not the mechanical but I took the...right, so you get it spinning and that keeps the whole assembly moving at a fairly regular, smooth rate.
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: (pause) And that keeps (pause) the ink being pushed onto the plate with the type and the paper being pushed into that plate and the plates coming together and moving apart and the only part you have to do by hand is snatching out the piece of paper that's been inked and putting in the blank piece of paper. And how much...how big are the pieces of paper? Are these like two leaves in a book? [00:18:15]
CLIENT: The press Harvard has can do up to 11 by 14, so that's a little bit bigger than legal pad sized I think.
THERAPIST: I see. So it does both sides of the page so you have to set the type such that you have the first page and the last page.
CLIENT: Well mostly what we do — well what I do, the pressure operator — most of the pressure operators do is not books because that's a sick kind of work mostly. Posters, fliers, business cards, wedding invitations...
THERAPIST: I see. Do they look different when they come off of there?
CLIENT: Well, you typically don't have booklet style, right? Like a poster is just one sheet and there's one big design.
THERAPIST: But it sounds like there are festive items as well. Can you get a look from printing that way that's harder to get from a laser printer or something?
CLIENT: Yeah! It's (pause)...it's the difference between a mechanically printed piece of paper and a digitally printed. It's just night and day for people who know what to look for. [00:19:27]
THERAPIST: I see. (chuckle)
CLIENT: I mean nerds. (laughter) But there are all kinds of artistic effects that you can get with the ink and blending colors and this, that, and the other.
THERAPIST: I can picture something that's created on a typewriter looks like but this is probably even quite different from that.
CLIENT: Yep.
THERAPIST: And how do you do pictures?
CLIENT: You take a high resolution digital imagine of the thing that you want and you send it to a machinist's shop, and they will machine a block of either wood or brass with your image carved into it.
THERAPIST: I see, so it's like sort of the way some people do print making. It's just the thing that actually applies the...I don't know what you call it... (pause) the thing that takes the ink to the paper.
CLIENT: Yep. It's called the plate. [00:20:39]
THERAPIST: The plate. (pause)
CLIENT: But yeah, once the fly wheel gets going, you've got hundreds of pounds of torque and it's very, very hard to stop.
THERAPIST: How do you stop it?
CLIENT: On a safety measure, we retro-fitted our machine with a hand rake you could pull that would clamp down. It's an electrically assisted hand rake so there was a motor that applies force to the hand rake to stop the wheel quickly. Before that, it was kick it with your foot and let it drag on your foot until the friction slowed it. Yeah, as you can imagine, it's not very safe.
THERAPIST: (chuckle) I would think not.
CLIENT: Someone gets their hand stuck in there.
THERAPIST: I see.
(silence from [00:21:33] to 00:22:02)
CLIENT: Yeah, that's how I feel about once I actually get started on a project, is that I don't want to stop in part because it's so hard to get started, getting that fly wheel going, and also if I stop, I'll feel crappy about myself for stopping, kind of the analogy to the force it takes to slow down a machine of that size.
THERAPIST: Yeah, sure, it would be like doing two leaflets and having a whole (inaudible) rest of the stack and stopping the fly wheel.
CLIENT: Right.
(silence from [00:22:34] to 00:22:58)
THERAPIST: Yeah, which is difficult because (silence from [00:23:00] to 00:23:21) at the daily things, like work and graduate school, projects and days aren't organized that, aren't... [as formidable] (ph) to that.
CLIENT: No.
THERAPIST: Like it's one thing when you're in...
CLIENT: Like, there aren't small projects that can be done in three hours. It's all bigger stuff.
THERAPIST: Yeah, it's not ninth grade homework or something.
CLIENT: Right.
THERAPIST: Or like you get home, you get started, you do it, you get it done, and you go to bed. You know?
CLIENT: Right.
THERAPIST: It's like a 12 hour problem set or a thesis. (silence from [00:23:49] to 00:24:02) I guess another thing with that is (pause) it's very hard to control the fly wheel and it's a lot of work to get it going or to stop it. But (pause) yeah, it's not an agile (pause) sort of piece of machinery.
CLIENT: Nope.
(silence from [00:24:38] to 00:24:49)
THERAPIST: This must be very frustrating.
CLIENT: Because rationally it makes so much more sense to (pause) do a two hour block of work and put it down and go take a break and then come back and do another two hour block of work and do that maybe three times and then be done for the day. And I can't bring myself to just work in any rational way that would be in my long term self interest. (sigh) Very upsetting.
THERAPIST: Yeah, I would think so. Well, the stakes are terribly high. We're not just talking about (pause) something that's incidental (ph) to the rest of your life.
CLIENT: Yeah. (silence from [00:25:33] to 00:25:55) I'm tired of being angry at myself and I'm tired of giving myself reasons to be angry. (silence [00:25:59] to 00:26:22) I'm tired of fucking up. (pause) I wish I understood why I just keep procrastinating and not doing my work because... (pause) and it's not as if I don't know what the consequences are. (chuckle)
THERAPIST: No, part of the problem, I would think, is you know them all too well. You probably hear about them all the time. It's usually why procrastinating isn't any fun.
(silence from [00:26:53] to 00:28:01)
When you say you're tired of being angry at yourself, it doesn't surprise me. But (pause) I guess, what do you have in mind specifically? I would imagine you have been tired of being angry at yourself for a long, long time. From the way you say it, there's something that feels more immediate or more recent about how you're sick and tired of that.
CLIENT: (pause) I don't know. (pause) I mean, certainly... (pause) yeah, three-ish years ago I wouldn't have been able to say what I was feeling was me being angry at myself and being sick of that. So I don't know if that's just a matter of being so used to therapy I now have some language to talk about how I'm feeling or if this is a new feeling. I'm not entirely sure?
(silence from [00:29:16] to 00:29:34)
THERAPIST: Well, you really want to be just more patient with yourself and...
CLIENT: Well, I want to stop fucking up in such obvious ways that they trigger my anger. I don't think it's... (pause) yeah, kind of the (inaudible) of what you said.
THERAPIST: I see. So it's more like you want to stop procrastinating. You want to be able to get to work. You want to be able to work in more manageable chunks and being more successful at all of it.
CLIENT: And I also want to actually believe in more achievable definitions of success so I can relax and be happy that I've accomplished something today because it's all, "You can't be happy and relax until you've finished the entire project." It's just setting myself up for failure because a thesis isn't done in a day or even a week and... (sigh). I think it's something of a cycle that I've somehow managed to convince myself that I can't relax and be proud of what I've done until it's completely finished and then the other part of me just dreads sitting down and working in an uninterrupted 20 hour burst or however long I can go before I pass out and thus reasonably avoids it because... [00:31:02]
THERAPIST: Is this a vicious cycle?
CLIENT: It might be. I don't know.
THERAPIST: Where (pause) you don't want to stop because you don't know when you'll next be able to work. But then you drive yourself so hard. Maybe that's partly why it's hard to start working the next time.
CLIENT: Right. Yeah, I see what you're saying. That sounds reasonable.
(silence from [00:31:35] to 00:31:47]
THERAPIST: Yeah, I mean, you've probably tried this but I wonder about the experiment of saying, "Okay, I'm just going to work for two hours. And then I'm going to have Dave come along and take away my books and (inaudible)" (chuckle)
CLIENT: I have tried that before and it doesn't work. I still can't get started on that two hour block of time. I've tried it with all kinds of time frames. I've tried the...like there are so many on the Getting Things Done website and various Productivity AA websites. I've tried the 45 minutes on, 15 minutes off for 4 hours and then take a one hour break. I've tried two hours on, a half an hour off. I've tried the 20 minutes, two minutes. None of it works. (sigh) That's really frustrating because you'd think at least one of them would stick. [00:32:41]
THERAPIST: Well it must make you feel really bad that none of them help.
CLIENT: Yep. It makes me feel like I'm an undisciplined slob. (pause) And then that just opens up like six other bags of issues; be it the language of, "You're being undisciplined. You have no discipline," then triggers all kinds of other "You're a slob. Your desk is messy. You can't keep things neat. You can't keep things tidy. Everything is cluttered. You're fat because you're lazy, because you're a slob and you're lazy because you're a slob and you're slobby because you're lazy." And they all get wound up into this great big bundle of ick.
THERAPIST: I did have another thought as we were talking yesterday that I didn't mention then but I'll mention it now which is (pause) a lot of this makes me think kind of abusive parent and child and four (ph), where there's the one part of you that sees a finger wagging, like criticizing yourself for being undisciplined and lazy and a slob and fat and this, that, and the other and the other and the other. And then the other part of you that's just totally crushed by all that, like reduced to a puddle, and unable to function I think. [00:34:37]
CLIENT: Well maybe the parent part should pick up the fucking slack and get this work done for me.
THERAPIST: (chuckle) Yeah, I'm not so sure it works like that. (chuckle) I wonder, too, if the kid part is — I'm not sure about this — like quietly recalcitrant. I wonder if there...when you listed yesterday all of the examples of the sort of key moments where you fucked something up - like the competitions and exams and things - I had to wonder whether (pause) part of you wanted to. Like, a part of you is very resentful and wanted to deprive your parents of what you knew mattered most because you're so fucking pissed off that that's what mattered more than anything else about you. [00:35:48]
I know there's also a way in which you wanted nothing more than to do it, but (pause) I couldn't...I guess I'm saying I could certainly understand if there's another part of you that wanted to frustrate, deprive, and shut them down. (pause) I guess part of why I say that is (pause) if that's a part of what's going on now, it's good to know about it. Like, if there's a part of you saying, "Oh, go ahead. Bring on another strategy. Yeah, you want to try that? No, I don't think so. Oh! You had this 17 and a half minutes on, one minute and 45 seconds off? I don't think so, that's not going to work. Well! Oh yes, yes. Standing on your head, writing with your left hand..." you know. I don't know, what do you think?
CLIENT: Well, I think that might be right. Because every one of those failures that I can remember — and I remember quite a few of them — I got knocked out of the competition or dropped out on something where (pause) I knew the right answer and I've always attributed it to choking under pressure but... (pause) The SAT, for example, I remember finishing every single section of the SAT with 10 or 15 minutes to spare. And I remember being stumped by the problems I got wrong and I can't...this sounds so ridiculous to me. I got one question wrong on the entire freaking SAT and I'm upset about it. It was one of the formats where you didn't get multiple choice, you had four columns of numbers and it was kind of free form in that you knew the answer was an integer between one and 999,999 and you filled in the bubble for each digit. (chuckle) [00:38:13]
And the question was, "If you have six cabins at a camp, and there's a pot connecting every pair of cabins — every cabin has a pot connecting to every other cabin — how many pots are there?" And I gave six as my answer (pause) which that's a geometric series that I even studied. I knew the formula for it. I don't know why... (sigh) Yeah, I don't know. That seems to lend credence to your theory. Maybe there was a part of me that was saying, "Screw you all." I don't know, maybe I needed that when I was a kid as a defense against my parents but it's not helping me now. It's really, really not. [00:39:12]
THERAPIST: Yeah, I know, and (pause) it only helped you at great cost then too.
CLIENT: Yeah, great cost. I got second in the nation instead of first in Science Olympiad. Oh, woe is me! (pause) I'm being a little bit sarcastic here.
THERAPIST: I know. (chuckle)
(silence from [00:39:40] to 00:40:17)
One thing I sort of think of it as being — if this is true; we're still sort of hypothesizing here — but if it's true, (pause) one thing that seems very important about it to me is that that part had a perspective that nobody else around seemed to have, which is that this whole situation is very fucked up, which is a perspective I know you have now to some extent on what went on then. But that was a part of you that knew it at the time.
CLIENT: Right.
THERAPIST: And, (silence from [00:40:56] to 00:41:33) I don't know. I guess I wonder if there's a little bit of it as well in you're saying that you're sick and tired of being angry at yourself. I know the solution you want there is to have many fewer things to be angry about. (chuckle)
CLIENT: Yes.
THERAPIST: But the way you say it also makes me think there's another side to it which is that you're sick of (pause) letting yourself have it.
CLIENT: Well there's a part of me — and Dave thinks this is completely crazy and that I should know better — well I sort of...well not sort of. I definitely feel like if I don't get my work done then I deserve to be punished because the only way to make sure I get my work done is by providing negative reinforcement and so I will punish myself. "You didn't get your work done? Okay, fine, no chocolate bar." Or, whatever I think of at the moment that I want. I decide I'm going to take it away from myself as punishment for not getting my work done. [00:42:47]
And Dave says this is completely crazy and that carrot and stick motivations don't work. And I don't know, he might be right. He keeps pointing at psychology research that disproves carrot and stick motivations.
THERAPIST: Yeah punishment, I think, tends to just really decrease morale. But...
CLIENT: But despite all the evidence, I still believe it and it's very...I don't know. I feel like it's very important to me to maintain that.
THERAPIST: I imagine it is. I think it will be useful to know why. I can imagine a few things. One is, it gives you a way to sort of structure the anger at yourself like rather than just feeling so awful inside, you can deprive yourself of something external in a way that may dissuade you a little bit. Another could be that... (inaudible) I don't know. I'm sure there's more to learn about it. We have to stop for now. [00:44:20]
A couple other things — one, you guys may have probably already thought of this but it would seem to me a good idea for you to be in touch with him pretty soon after this meeting tomorrow. I hope it goes well and you're not upset afterwards but where that kicked things off on Tuesday, it seems to me it might help for you guys to have time to talk or whatever. I mean, certainly you guys have a meeting too and let me know how it went. I'm interested to know but I think it's important for you to have some kind of backup after that.
CLIENT: Right.
THERAPIST: Does that seem reasonable? Otherwise, I imagine he's probably keeping a pretty close eye on you. I'm glad you are feeling better about today did go well and I hope it turns out there's actually no need for him to be keeping a close eye on you. (chuckle) But you know, better to be safe...
CLIENT: Yeah, better safe than sorry.
THERAPIST: Exactly. Yeah, and certainly (inaudible). We should stop for now. [00:45:42]
END TRANSCRIPT
