<font size="4"><b>A Broken Window</b></font>

I WAS in a state of great anxiety. I, a lonely woman, had
returned from work, late one night, and developed an
idea that I had left an important door unlocked at my
place of employment, a door which it was my duty to
lock. I wanted to return to make quite sure. At the hostel
where I lived there was a rule that no one might go out
after 10 p.m., and, when I asked for permission, it was
refused. Also, just as brusquely, I was refused permission
to telephone to the local police to notify them of the
problem. My anxiety grew and grew. It developed into
claustrophobia when the hostel warden told me that, if I
were to leave the house that night, I should never have
the opportunity to do so again. I went upstairs and waited
a long while. I was watching for the routine police patrol
car which was due, at a late hour, to pass the house, as it
did every night. I had a stick in my hand. When I saw
the car slide round the corner, I smashed the landing
window with the stick and shouted to the driver. I was
not heard, and in a moment the car was gone round the
bend of the road. Ten minutes later an ambulance arrived
and, although I offered to go quietly, I was forcibly
frogmarched into it by two men, in great pain from their
arm-twisting.


"I want to see the police," I said, "I have something
important to tell them. That was why I broke the window.
They have just gone past in a car."

[p. <i>44</i>]

"We are the police," they said.


"You are nothing of the kind."


"We will take you to the police."


"The station is first left and first right," I told them.


I knew perfectly well that they were lying and that we
should never see the police. The only other words spoken
on our journey were an enquiry as to my name.


We stopped at a large general hospital and I was dragged
into the corridor from the ambulance, by both arms, crying
out with pain, but making no attempt to get away. In
the single room to which they took me I was at once
surrounded by five nurses.


"Are you going to take your clothes off or do we have
to strip you?"


All of them stood round, watching me, as I undressed.


I was taken to the bath, and, after a bath, I was made to
wash my long hair in the same bathwater. I remained
perfectly quiet and did everything they told me. I was
shown my bed and then they left me alone, with the door
slightly open. There was a narrow spyhole just behind my
bed and from the corridor they watched me at intervals.
I wondered what they thought I was likely to do.


A young doctor came and gave me a brief physical
examination, during which he asked me the date and,
surprisingly enough, whether I had "a belief in hypnotism".
To my very matter of fact reply he said: "Fair
enough", and left me. Then I remained in peace for the
night; except that now and again I would see a pair of
eyes at the spyhole. During the whole procedure, no one
chose to give me any explanation of the object in kidnapping
me; and certainly not one of them tried to relieve
my mind or to treat me with any semblance of ordinary
human sympathy.


Next morning when the day sister came, I asked her to

[p. <i>45</i>]

I was interviewed by two doctors. I asked each to get
into touch with Margaret, and I explained who she was,
for she held an important public position. The first
doctor, who was a man, looked at me with an expression of
intensity and said, "What is your relationship with this
woman? Are you in love with her?" I was furious; and I
told him that he had better not say anything like that
either to or about my friend. He wasted a long time
merely sitting, staring rudely at me, and then he said:
"What sort of films do you like?" I answered: "Suppose
we get down to brass tacks and discuss the reason for my
being here?"


"Why don't you want to discuss the pictures with me?"


"Because I can see no good reason for doing so."


"I am going to ask another doctor to see you."


The next doctor was a woman. I admitted anxiety. I
also admitted claustrophobia, from which I had always had
a tendency to suffer, probably owing to the fact of having
been accidentally shut into a cupboard as a small child
and badly frightened then. This doctor told me that the
mere fact that I suffered from claustrophobia was sufficient
to necessitate that I should be sent to a mental
hospital. I replied that I doubted whether a fear of being
shut up could rightly be treated by locking up the patient.

[p. <i>46</i>]

I had explained what had happened to cause me to break
the window to both doctors. It was, however, perfectly
obvious that they had made up their minds about me.
When I raised the question of Margaret with this woman
doctor, I got the answer: "You are not well enough to see
any visitors."


"Very well. Let her come to see you and discuss my
case."


I asked for a report from my own doctor, who was at
that period attending me. The psychiatrist said that it
was quite needless. And then I requested her to telephone
news of my whereabouts to my solicitor; and this request
was also refused. Would they please telephone my employers
and tell them that I could not go to work? No,
they would not. If they had been trying to provoke me
to some act of violence they could not have done better.
But I behaved myself. However, there I was, spirited
away at night by two men, locked up in a hospital miles
from my home, unable to notify anyone of my address,
out of reach of any form of moral support, isolated from
every means of help, and being kept in solitary confinement.
And this was in England, during the Festival of
Britain.


Next day was Friday, 13th July. I was brought before
a magistrate and stood before him between two nurses,
with two more behind me. The magistrate coldly informed
me that the medical certificates stated that I was
ill, and that he was therefore going to send me away to a
hospital "for a long time". I answered that I perfectly
understood him and I asked to be allowed to go to hospital
as a voluntary patient. He refused my request, without
stating any reason.


I repeated the request, only to be told that he was not
prepared to argue with me. I saw him sign the order. I

[p. <i>47</i>]

The magistrate lifted his hand and looked at the nurses.
The four nurses hustled me out of the room roughly.


In the corridor I met the psychiatric social worker.
I recognized her quite well, because years earlier we had
met on professional matters.


"Miss Flimsy," I said, "they have just certified me.
Will you please help me to get into touch with my friends?"
I gave her the addresses. Could I not even let anyone
know where I was, now that they had done their worst?


"I am sorry, but I cannot do anything to help you,"
said Miss Flimsy, and strode on down the corridor.


What is a social worker there for?


Two hours later they took me to the mental hospital,
alone, and for reasons it is difficult to understand, wholly
isolated from anyone known to me. My sentence had
begun.


Ever since 1945 I had been living in dread of this moment.
In 1944, I had given up my job because I had found
that I could not cope with its difficulties. I had been in
the job only three months, and I was loath to leave it; but
I appeared to be in a constant state of exhaustion, and
anxiety was my worst enemy. I had gone home for a few
months, during which time my blind mother died. As
soon as the funeral was over, my next-of-kin showed an
aggressive interest in my mental welfare. This began with

[p. <i>48</i>]

The next step taken by my relative was to call in the
same psychiatrist, by an appointment made through his
own doctor who had never attended me. After spending a
whole afternoon on the case, the psychiatrist refused to
implement the petition signed by my next-of-kin, it
having been proved beyond doubt that this petition contained
direct falsehoods. My relative then turned me
out of the house, though it was not his house, with such
luggage as I could carry, telling me that I could find a
home as a voluntary patient in any mental hospital.


I went to London where I sought medical aid. I was
seen by more than one doctor; and the doctors did not
agree in their decisions. I could see only one end to the
matter, and that was to go into a private hospital, as a
voluntary patient, to prove my sanity. I insisted upon
doing so, mainly against medical advice. I have never done
a more foolish thing in my life.


When I left that hospital, over a year later, fully fit for
work and to live by myself, I had lost my profession and
my means of livelihood. I was therefore doomed to spend
the next six years in and out of temporary unskilled employment,
because by my stay as a voluntary patient I
had ruined all hope of professional work.


As soon as I had entered the hospital, my next-of-kin,
unknown to anyone, withdrew 150 invested money
belonging to me, which was all I had, and which was never
expended for my support. When I left the hospital I

[p. <i>49</i>]

I was met at the main door of the mental hospital by a
ward sister and a junior nurse. They had a large wheel
chair, and on that chair was a broad, strong strap. They
were perhaps expecting me to be violent. They grabbed
me by the arm, but I sidestepped them and said: "I was
treated with needless violence on my way to the other
hospital and I will not be so treated here. I will walk to
the admission ward." They looked at each other and at
the chair. I had to act quickly. I said: "I know the way.
I have visited a patient there," and I started walking down
the corridor in front of them. It was a long corridor, and
this odd little procession of myself, in the lead, clad in a
vast, long, aged hospital dressing gown, followed by the
ward sister, the nurse and the empty chair must have
looked silly. Not one word was spoken all the way.


This was the welcome of one of the National Health
Service's largest mental hospitals. The door was slammed
behind me the moment I was inside the ward. I was
shown to a bed. A young doctor came. He said: "I
should like to examine you." He made a very brief
physical examination and explained that he would do a
fuller one later.


Presently the sister returned and demanded to see the
two rings I was wearing. They already had my watch. I
held up both hands, with the fingers clenched, without a

[p. <i>50</i>]

They returned my handbag to me without the cash it had
held. They had also removed from it several private
letters which could have had no bearing on my health,
and a statutory copy of my birth certificate. Days later, I
was told that there had been only two shillings in my
possession, although there had been a ten shilling note
and silver when I entered the first hospital. For several
days I asked for the return of my watch. I got this back
only when I told the staff that I must either have the
watch or be given a receipt for it. They informed me that
receipts were never given to patients either for money or
for property when these were confiscated. They also
warned me that if I caused any trouble they would forth-with
confiscate every article I possessed. Asking for my
watch was making trouble.
<a href="javascript: __showhidenote('_note_13424');">[note]</a><div id="_note_13424" style="display:none;background-color:#FFDD99;margin:0px;border:2px solid #800000; padding:2px;">* The accusation that property belonging to mental patients is
sometimes stolen by those who are responsible for its safe custody
has been made sufficiently frequently for the subject to be dealt with
by the Ministry of Health in their memorandum H.M. (56) 85.
Section 8 of the Appendix to this memorandum states: <i>Theft of
patients' moneys. The majority of cases have concerned mental and
mentally deficient patients and the offenders have taken advantage of
the fact that these patients are incapable of looking after their own
affairs. Arrangements made should ensure that all payments are authorized
by a senior officer (e.g. the Medical Superintendent) and made under
supervision. There should be complete separation of such duties as
collection of pension moneys from the post office and payment to the
pensioners concerned. Careful consideration should be given to the
control and custody of money and valuables brought into hospital by
patients. Wherever practicable the initial handing over of such money or
valuables should be witnessed by a third person, who should certify the
appropriate record accordingly. ... In no circumstances should the
control and custody of patients' money or valuables be delegated to
ward staff</i>. The date of this memorandum is 4th October, 1956.</div>
So was asking for writing
materials, which they did not produce, although there is a
regulation which gives any patient the right to materials
for letter-writing.


I was not allowed to write to my employers to notify

[p. <i>51</i>]

Apart from replying to questions, and providing me
with food, the staff ignored me. There I lay, perfectly
quietly in bed, without a soul to whom I could voice the
awful terror which consumed me, and with no knowledge
of the staff's next step. It appeared that I was expected to
lie in bed all day long, with nothing whatever to do, but
suffer from the shock of certification and my terror of the
future.


I thought that this technique must be a new method
devised for the study of mental illness; but I was soon to
learn that it appeared to be nothing but a callous belief
that the insane do not suffer and that any problems they
may express are bound to be imaginary. I heard, with
mounting horror, the attempts of other new patients to
get their needs satisfied and their efforts to obtain information;
and I noted the evasions of the staff. No one ever
seemed to be able to get a sensible reply to any
question.


It arose from two causes. The first was clearly a well-fixed
belief of nearly the whole staff that the patients were
something less than human beings, and need not be
handled as though they had human rights, or normal
feelings, like other people. "Where there is no sense there
is no feeling", was a favourite saying of these nurses.
The fact that they constantly said it about patients in the
hearing of patients proves that they believed it to be true.
It is also evidence that they consider patients to be less

[p. <i>52</i>]

It was during the evening of Sunday, 15th July, that
I was called to see the ward doctor, and I gladly left my
bed to do so. I found later that he had consultant status.
First he gave me a reasonably careful physical examination.
Then he turned to the ward sister and said: "She
will need to be looked after all her life."


I stared at the doctor in horror. Then I asked him to
see me alone. When the sister had gone, I asked him
whether he had found something wrong with my chest,
and said, if so, I would rather be told. He answered:
"Oh no, it was your mental condition I was referring to.
I'm afraid you will have to get used to the idea of staying
here for good. It is quite comfortable. There are plenty
of entertainments on Saturdays. You can go to the
pictures. You will settle down. But you will never be
fit to earn your own living again."


"But," I said, "less than a week ago I was earning my
own living. How can you make that out? You have had
no contact with my employers. You cannot have any
reason to say what you have said. All you have done is to
destroy my employment without enquiry there."


He smiled his indulgent smile: "You see, you have no
insight into your illness. You do not know how ill you
are. You think you are fit to earn your living, but you
are not. It is a permanent condition. It is irreversible.
You will need to live in the shelter of a mental hospital for
the rest of your life. You will have nothing to worry about.
Your needs will be provided for. There is nothing I can
do about it."

[p. <i>53</i>]

I asked him how and why all this had been decided
before he had given me any form of mental examination, in
the absence of a medical history, without consulting my
own doctor, and without anyone having interviewed any
person who had known me. And he replied that all this was
quite needless. The diagnosis was perfectly clear. I was
suffering from a well developed delusional state, he told
me, which would be permanent. I was very curious to
know just what these delusions were, and asked him. He
explained that it was evident that I thought everyone was
against me, and not trying to do their best to arrange a
settled happy life for me in hospital. When I argued that
anyone snatched from liberty would feel the same, he
smiled.


"You broke a window," he said. "You had lost control of
yourself. You might have done yourself some harm if you
had not been removed to hospital. You were becoming
violent. Something had to be done. It was not safe to
leave you at large."


It was then that I knew that the perfectly truthful
explanation for the window-breaking had never been
accepted. It had been made to look like uncontrolled
temper, or an attempt at suicide. I told the doctor the
real explanation. And then he said the most astonishing
thing. He asked: "Why did you barricade yourself in at
the hostel before you broke the window?" I asked him
where this had been done, and he informed me that I had
done it just beside the window. I told him that the window
was in the wall of a totally unfurnished length of corridor,
in which there were no materials whatever from which any
barricade could be made; and moreover that this was the
first I had heard of the matter, which was wholly and
deliberately fictitious. But this, the doctor told me, was
in the written evidence. I had been certified on at least

[p. <i>54</i>]

He insisted that no treatment would do me any good
and that I was not going to have any. When I asked
him what sort of plan he had in mind for my welfare
in hospital he said he had no plan for me; why should he
have one, as there was to be no treatment?


Then I informed that earnest doctor that I deeply
regretted the fact that I had not been charged at a police
station with window-breaking, and brought to a magistrate's
court, to have the protection of British justice, in
my own country, in accordance with the safeguards which
the law provides. I reminded him that I could not have
been sent to prison for life for any offence; nor could a
prison doctor have sent me to a mental hospital without
first having the full facts before him.


I am bound to admit that, on this one occasion, the
doctor listened to me for quite a time. It was much the
longest interview I was ever to have in the hospital in all
the five years that I was there. My interviews with doctors
there usually lasted about five minutes.


I discussed the possibility of seeking another opinion.
To this, the doctor would not agree. The case was quite
clear. He had no doubt about the diagnosis and prognosis.
He could not waste another doctor's time.


"But you can waste the whole of the rest of my life. If
I were in a general hospital," I said, "I could obtain
another opinion, if I felt that one were necessary."

[p. <i>55</i>]

"How?" he asked.


"By paying for it," I said, "as a private patient. But it is
not impossible to obtain a psychiatric opinion and a
scientific diagnosis within the National Health Service.
You could send me to the Maudsley Hospital, and I
would give you the fullest co-operation, if you would do
so. You could transfer me to Bethlem. You could send
me to Bristol, or to Oxford. You could even try to get me
into the Retreat at York, if they would accept my work
as part payment for the cost. I would willingly go
there."


"You pick the best places, don't you?" he said. "You
cannot afford the Retreat. You have no money."


"That is more guesswork," I said. "I have a small
income, and you will have to ensure that a Receiver is
appointed to look after it while I am here."


"If you have any money you must arrange to pay it all
into the hospital," he replied, acting again in advance of
the information.


"Not this money. This will have to be handled by the
Court of Protection. It is the interest on a sum left in a
trust created under my father's will."


"You will still have to pay it all into the hospital,"
said the doctor.


He made a note of my solicitor's name and address on
my case paper. I hoped that at last I had scored a point.
I had not dealt with the trustees direct for many years,
and I saw no good reason for letting the hospital do so. I
was glad to hear the doctor promise that he would contact
my solicitor. He had told me that I was uncontrolled
and likely to become worse in that respect. He had assumed
that I should become content with an idle life
mixed with trivial amusements. He had left me nothing in
life that I held dear except my religion. He had tried to

[p. <i>56</i>]

Next day I was given writing materials. By then I had
been imprisoned for six days. Not that the letter I wrote
to my friend was ever received by her; and I was specifically
forbidden to write to any solicitor.


On Thursday, 19th July, all my clothes arrived from
my lodgings. My belongings should have included an
intact carton of 50 Players and two pounds of plain
chocolate, which had been in my suitcase, but these
were absent. As sweets were then rationed, I was without
money or cigarettes, I notified the social worker of these
omissions and asked her to enquire. The duly authorized
officer who had been responsible for packing my cases had
left in them his own spectacle case, with his name and
address within, so one knew from whom to enquire.
The social worker, however, informed me quite happily
that food was one of the things which the duly authorized
officer was not obliged to send to the owner, and she
supposed that this excuse would also cover cigarettes,
so that there was nothing to be done. I wrote to the D.A.O.
myself, later, and also to the original hospital about a
missing brooch. The D.A.O. did not reply, and I still
have his glasses case, and the first hospital promised to
enquire about the brooch, and my money, and never wrote
again. For years I was to hear similar stories from incoming
patients; and they were not ail of them suffering
from delusions about their property.


On Friday, 27th July, I managed to persuade the social
worker, with reluctance and under protest, to telephone

[p. <i>57</i>]

From that day to this, Margaret has never treated me as
though I were an insane person. Nothing has been of
greater help to me than thisthat there was still one person
in the world to whom I could say anything that I might
wish, without being made to feel that I had no real
rights, little intelligence, and no finer feelings. For
Margaret has never said: "You imagine things", "You
are paranoid", "You are so suspicious", "You can't be
so well", "There is nothing unpleasant about being in
hospital", "You will have to pull yourself together,"
"You cannot really mean what you say", "You are far
better off here than you would be at home", or any of the
other stupid things which every mental patient is heartily
tired of hearing.


Margaret sat down, produced money, cigarettes and
postage stamps, brought out her notebook and said,
"What can I do to help you?"


It was as simple as that; but for the first time in seventeen
days someone had spoken to me as though I were
sane.


I felt very much better after Margaret's visit. After all,
I had not disappeared, without trace, from human
knowledge.


Five days later, I was called to the ward doctor's
office. He came to the point at once. He said he had investigated
the story of my income and had found it to be
fictitious. My belief in my income was, he told me solemnly,
a symptom of my illness, and one which proved beyond
doubt the gravity and the nature of my delusions. It was
further evidence that I had no insight about my condition.

[p. <i>58</i>]

I waylaid the social worker, and I told her what had
happened. I besought her to put it right. I begged her to
write to the solicitor. She smiled: "You have no legacy,"
she said. "It is all imagination. I am not going to do anything
about it."


I asked her what had happened about my sickness
benefit and she assured me that she had made the claim
on my behalf. At the same time she eased out of me the
fact that I had the sum of seventeen pounds ten shillings
in cash, which was in Margaret's care, in the safe at her
office. When Margaret came to see me, a few days later,
she had had a letter from the social worker which contained
a demand that the money should be paid over to her, to be
handed to me at the rate of five shillings a week. Margaret
had seen a solicitor for advice, and had acted upon
it, replying to the effect that the cash was in her care
before the date of my certification, and that, pending the
appointment of a Receiver of my estate, it would be quite
improper for her to pay over the money to any other

[p. <i>59</i>]

I had been repeatedly told by the social worker, during
August, September and October, that she had made my
sickness benefit claim, as was her routine for patients, and
that the Ministry had delayed payment. In October, the
doctor gave me parole outside the hospital, and the next
day I went by bus to the local office of the Ministry of
National Insurance. All the way there and back I was
terrified, lest I should be seen by some member of the
staff in the act of trying to obtain my statutory rights. I
found that no claim in my name had passed through the
local office, and I received some very good advice. This
was that, if I could make my claim payable to some trustworthy
friend outside the hospital, I should be able to
receive the full amount legally due to me, whereas, if it
were paid to me through the hospital, I should never be
allowed more than five shillings weekly, throughout the
term of benefit, no matter how much more the rate might
be. The appropriate form was given to me, so that I
might make this arrangement. On Margaret's next visit,
we both signed it in each other's presence, as is required,
and I took it to the social worker and told her what we had

[p. <i>60</i>]

In October, when the Hospital Visiting Committee
was in my ward on its rounds, which gave me a proper
right of approach to them at that time, I quietly told the
Chairman that I would like a short interview. He replied:
"You would, would you?" turned and spoke to the
superintendent, pointing at meand they all left the
ward.


So ended the most brief interview I have ever had. Of
course it was the legacy I had intended to mention, but I
did not even have the opportunity to state the subject for
discussion. In any mental hospital you will be informed
that any patient has the right of approach to members of
the committee during their formal visits, and that this is
the opportunity given to patients to make any complaint,
which will, of course, be investigated.


During October too the ward doctor seemed to change
his mind about my income. He admitted that I had really
had a legacy from my father; but he added that I had spent
the lot and that nothing remained. This was very curious,
in view of the fact that no beneficiary can obtain access
to capital left in trust, nor is it easy to spend the income
from such capital, in advance, leaving nothing in the
future. The doctor refused again to disclose the identity
of his informant. No progress was made until November,

[p. <i>61</i>]

It was not until January, and then only as a result of
intervention from the Board of Control, that I was promised
an investigation of my financial affairsAn investigation
that, of course, revealed my income.


The next that I heard was from the social worker, who
told me that my efforts had been wasted, because, no
matter how much money I might have, I should never
be allowed to receive more than five shillings a week.


In June, the Statutory Notice from the Court of Protection
was served upon me, and in July, 1952, twelve
months after my admission, my estate was taken into the
control of the Official Solicitor at the High Court. I
wrote to him of some of the details of the handling of
my finances by the hospital; and I told him that I could
not consent to have my income paid into that hospital.
It was not in vain that I wrote, for he consented to appoint
Margaret as an intermediary, so that part of my
income should be paid to her half-yearly, and by her to
me monthly. I did not hear of any other patient, at any
time, whose money was not paid by the Official Solicitor
direct into the hospital office. But it was the Official
Solicitor who was to decide how much of my income I
might have, not the social worker. Nothing ever went

[p. <i>62</i>]

At the end of my first year, I asked to be removed from
the admission ward. I did so because on one occasion the
ward sister threatened to put me into the padded cell
simply because I had banged a door. I knew her well
enough to be certain that she would be likely to carry
out this threat, with the excuse that I had shown violence.
I had never shown violence, nor did I wish to court it.
The doctor, who was not my own psychiatrist at the time,
had me transferred to a ward which had no pads, but
which existed for the incarceration of very advanced cases.
There were over forty patients in that ward and, of these
only two were capable of carrying on a sustained conversation.
They were an alcoholic, who had been there
for thirteen years, and a cripple who had been institutionalized
all her life. I realized immediately that the two
sisters were competent and well-intentioned women.
Within two days they dropped the habit of giving silly
answers to my questions, and, thereafter, both treated me
on an equality and chose to converse with me as though I
were sane. Both suggested to me that I should ask the
doctor, whose statutory examination was then due, whether
I could have my status changed to that of a voluntary
patient.


I was always hopeful about this change, as I had been
told many times that a very careful survey of my case would
be done for the Board of Control at the end of the year;
and now that I had come under the care of a new doctor,
with whom I had never had to argue about my income,
my hopes were high. Surely at last the doctors must see
that I was neither a danger to myself nor to any other

[p. <i>63</i>]

I waited, in bed, for the physical examination. The
doctor had several other patients. As I watched him with
them, for there were no screens used, I decided to time
my own examination. He had been an Army doctor. As
he put on his stethoscope to examine my chest, he began
to discuss the Tank Corps. He used the stethoscope while
he talked. He never ceased to talk, not to me but to the
staff nurse who stood beside the bed. The whole examination
was over in two and a half minutes. The mental part
of the examination was on the following Wednesday, and
I was seen in the doctor's office.


"What did you have for breakfast?"


"Wheat flakes and bread and margarine."


"When did your next of kin last visit you?"


"They have never visited me at any time."


"What is the name of your tailor?"


"I am in a mental hospital and it is impossible for me
to have a tailor."


"That will do."


"I should like to discuss with you the question of
changing my status to that of a voluntary patient."


To the ward sister, "Take her away."


I hesitated at the door.


"TAKE HER AWAY!"

[p. <i>64</i>]

I have often wondered what can have been the information
on either the physical or the mental report presented
on my case by this medical officer, and by which he condemned
me to another year of imprisonment. It is well
known that if the patient is not the subject of a satisfactory
report at the end of his first year there is very much less
chance that he will ever be discharged.


I was doomed to stay for four more years in that
hospital, during which time I was placed in two different
wards for elderly hopeless chronics, then in a treatment
ward, and finally in the convalescent ward. It was in the
treatment ward, in 1953, more than two years after my
admission to hospital, that a fresh medical opinion was
obtained through the intervention of the medical superintendent,
and at once the whole course of my life in the
hospital altered. I was sent to the Labour Exchange, to
seek for full-time work, so that I could be discharged.
This was found not to be helpful; and owing to the
hospital's lack of effective organization for helping patients
to secure work it was fully two years later that I managed
to find a job. The social worker tried to discourage me
from the belief that I could find anything to do, except
the roughest forms of cleaning on a part-time scale.
She endeavoured to persuade me that I was too old for
paid employment, and that no one would receive me. From
the hospital address all my efforts to help myself seemed
useless. Until, one day, I saw an unlikely advertisement
in the local paper and answered it, and was interviewed,
and appointed to a skilled job which I had only the
vaguest idea how to perform.


I remained in the hospital for six months, after securing

[p. <i>65</i>]

From the time when I first became a mental patient, it
had taken me eleven years to get back into skilled work;
and I know that all this need never have happened. At
any period during that time I could very well have been
handled as an outpatient, provided that specialist advice
were available. For mine was a case which required very
special diagnosis from the start, but which did not receive
it for fully nine years.

