<font size="4"><b>Prologue</b></font>
[p. <i>[3]</i>]

My body aches intermittently, in waves, as if I had malaria. I
eat with no appetite, simply because the taste of food is one of my
dwindling number of pleasures. I am tired, so tired. Last night I lay
like a pile of old clothes, and when David came to bed I did not stir.
Sex is a foreign notion. At work today I am forgetful; I have trouble
forming sentences, I lose track of them halfway through, and my
words keep getting tangled. I look at my list of things to do today,
and keep on looking at it; nothing seems to be happening. Things
seem sad to me. This morning I thought of the woman who used to
live in my old house, who told me she went to Sears to buy fake lace
curtains. It seemed a forlorn acthaving to save your pennies, not
being able to afford genuine lace. (Why? a voice in my head asks.
The curtains she bought looked perfectly nice. ) I feel as if my brain
were a lump of protoplasm with tiny circuits embedded in it, and
some of the wires keep shorting out. There are tiny little electrical
fires up there, leaving crispy sections of neurons smoking and ruined.


At least that's how it seems. Sitting in the subway station, waiting
for the train, I realize I am not thinking straight, so I do what
I've done before in this situation: I get out a pen and paper and start
writing down what I call my "dysfunctional thoughts." Just between
the car and the subway station escalator, I accumulate these: "Everybody
but me is in shape. I am fat." Then: "My career is going
nowhere. I'm never going to get a promotion at work. They think
I'm second-rate." And: "My relationship with David is not working.
I'm getting irritable and withdrawn, finding fault. More proof that I
can't handle intimacy."

[p. <i>4</i>]

Writing these down doesn't help immediately, as I knew it
wouldn't, but I file them away for future reference. I take it on faith
that I am thinking in distorted ways at the moment. But I'm never
really sure of that when it would most help to know. I don't even
know when this current siege begana week ago? A month ago?
The onset is so gradual, and these things are hard to tell. All I know
is, the Beast is back.


It is called depression, and my experiences with it have shaped
my lifealtered my personality, affected my most intimate relationships,
changed the course of my careerin ways I will probably
never be fully aware of. These days, however, the Beast has been cornered
 which is to say that he escapes from time to time, but I have
some control over him. I have an array of new antidepressant drugs at
my disposalfar more powerful than traditional antidepressants,
faster-acting and with fewer side effectsand a psychiatrist with
whom I have developed trust and a good working relationship. After
many years of pretending the Beast did not exist, I now have deep
respect for my adversary.


I call him "Beast" because it suits himthough I imagine "him"
not as a creature but as a force, something that has slipped outside
the bounds of natural existence, a psychic freight train of roaring
despair. For most of my life, the Beast has been my implacable and
unpredictable enemy, disappearing for months or years, then returning
in strength. He appeared in the most benign of guises, hiding
in; plain view behind a word I thought I understood, but didn't. I
was using the word "depression" as early as fourteen in my diary, but
I did so in the nonmedical sense of the wordthe ordinary, transient
despair of being a teenager. Yet, even in grammar school, there
were long stretchesweeks, maybe months, it is impossible now to
saywhen every morning I counted the hours that had to pass before

[p. <i>5</i>]

And so, very early, I began to try to understand.


I trace the beginnings of that endeavor back to a winter afternoon
when I was fourteen, sitting in my bedroom in a suburb of
Atlanta. In my lap was a blank green stenographer's pad; in my hand
was a pen. I know the precise date, because it's recorded there in my
careful schoolgirl penmanship: December 29, 1969. I was beginning
a private journal and, I wrote, I had two reasons for trying this experiment.
One was to practice my writing. The other purpose was "to
put down the cause of my depressions and to see if I can help myself
that way ... It sounds horrible, and it is, but a couple of times I have
thought how nice it would be to kill myself!!!"


As time went by, depression became more than just a personal
struggle, but also a subject on which I could practice my writer's
craft, even in those long years when I did not know what I was
describing. It seemed natural to become a journalistan occupation
hospitable to persons with mood disorders. Having a mood disorder
is not synonymous with having artistic talent, but it is true that people
in the so-called creative professionswriters, actors, artists,
musicianshave a higher than normal incidence of such illnesses,
and there are also a disproportionate number of alcoholics in these

[p. <i>6</i>]

In 1992, two years after I began to get effective drug therapy for
my depression, the personal and the professional merged in an article
I wrote about my experience for the <i>Washington Post</i>. Several colleagues
warned me against writing about such a personal subject.
They said that revealing I had suffered a mental illness would harm
my career, and for a while I held back, afraid they were right. But
the more I thought about it, the more I wondered. Suppose they <i>were</i>
right? Did silence, in the long run, help me? I also felt the inequity
of my situation. My colleagues had written first-person accounts of
their heart attacks or their gallbladder surgery, if they had learned
something of interest, and their stories were considered valuable contributions
to public understanding. Depression was surely as common

[p. <i>7</i>]

There were. By nine a.m. on the Tuesday morning my article
appeared, my direct line at the office had recorded a little over forty
voice mail messages, not counting calls coming in to other parts of
the paper. The pace of calls continued all week. For many readers, it
was the first news that their pain was, in fact, a medical problem and
not a character weakness, that a great many "high achievers" suffered
the debilitating effects of depressive episodes and in the intervals still
managed to pursue demanding careersand that help was available.
Like me, they had suspected that something was fundamentally
wrong with how they felt. But they had gotten stuck at the last conceptual
hurdlewhich was to say, out loud, "I have a mental illness."
Many expressed immense relief; it was as if a familiar
word"depression"had suddenly become three-dimensional,
revealing the adversary behind its ordinary facade. One caller comes
vividly to mind. "I'm Peggy," she said. The call was logged early
Tuesday morning; she must have just read the paper. She was weeping.
"I read your story. I think you may have just saved my life."


After four days of this, overwhelmed with the reaction I had

[p. <i>8</i>]

I emerged, eventually, with the idea of writing about this illness
in a new waynot as a memoir of insanity, but as the chronicle of a
time I have lived through. To me, it's an era which began on that
winter afternoon in 1969 in Atlanta, in a time and place in which
people talked vaguely about "nervous breakdowns" and "female trouble,"
and which continues to the present, when many laymen can
converse with some sophistication about disorders of neurotransmitters
in the brain. My task would be to subject myself to the same
scrutiny I applied when I wrote about other people, to write about an
intensely personal subject in the most objective way I could. I would
try to apply the tools of journalismthe ability to note significant
details and ask the right questions, the dogged pursuit of a pattern of
meaning in a jumble of factsto the art of personal history. I would
try to pass through the mirror of self and describe what I saw from
the other side.


This is an interesting concept. The brain is the only organ that
tries to make sense of its pain. It is as if the bone were trying to
understand the break, as if the blood vessel could comprehend its
rupture. But this is also its greatest impediment to understanding.
The mind clings fiercely to any alternative to chaos, even if that alternative
is self-destruction; the tunnel vision of suicide, when death
seems the only solution to an intolerable existence, is the brain's categorical
rejection of the preposterous notion that anything about its
perception of events might be amiss. But the reverse ought also to be
true: the healthy mind might be able to understand its own malfunction.


The array of symptoms we call depression is a territory ventured
into many times over the centuries, each time by explorers fascinated

[p. <i>9</i>]

Depression meets with a particularly ambivalent reception in
modern America. Our frontier ethic of self-sufficiency has evolved
into a modern taste for self-absorption and the inverted quest for status
found in victimhood. When it comes to depression, Americans
tend either to remain stoic and blind to the most flagrant symptoms,
or to adopt the role of wounded children whose problems are entirely
the fault of forces beyond their controla bad upbringing, societal
ills, or rotten genes. Sometimes it seems as if the most widely heard
spokesmen on this issue are divided into two camps: those who
believe depression isn't truly an illness at all, and those whose lives
have been one long tragic experience with nothing but depression.

[p. <i>10</i>]

Despite our recent preoccupation with psychopharmacology,
depression is a complex illness of both internal and external origins,
the interaction of nature and nurture. That makes it all the harder
to defineand our inability to do so may explain why even the most
generous medical insurance plans limit coverage for this illness. Yet
according to a recent estimate in the <i>Journal of Clinical Psychiatry</i>,
depression accounts for a $43.7-billion-per-year burden on the American
economy, measured in medical costs, lost productivity, and the
lost economic contributions of wage earners who die young from
depression-related suicide. For American business, depression is the
ne'er-do-well relative suspected of skimming money from the cash
register; employers ignore or condescend to him, hoping that one
day he will just go away. But he won't.


These days, any good bookstore has shelves of books about mood
disorders, many of them medically sophisticated, some of the level
of pop psychology, and much in between. In cyberspace, people swap
questions about medication and coping hints via files with names
like "Depression Chatline." Judging from the number of entries,
interest in this subject ranks up there with that old standby, "relationships."
The pharmacist in my neighborhood in Washington,
D.C., jokes about how he should order Prozac by the truckload, since
everybody in the neighborhood is taking it.


But, he adds, not everybody wants to personally own up to that.


His words point out the aspect people don't talk about: even in
this avalanche of information, the stigma remains. I know of one
highly regarded reporter for the <i>New York Times</i> who pays his own
psychiatric bills, fearful that submitting them to the company health
insurance plan will stymie his career. He may be right; in any event,
the <i>Times</i>' mental health coverage is not generous, so he's not missing
out on much. A young White House aide, recruited straight from

[p. <i>11</i>]

I understand his shame; I've felt it myself. Sometimes I still do.
To those who have never experienced depression, this must be an
infuriating illnesseasy to fake, quite possible to conceal, hard to
distinguish at times from whining and simple malingering. That
frustration no doubt explains some of the treatments for depression,
which over the centuries have included emetics, purges, cold showers,
or prescriptions for "mother's little helper" pills, all dispensed
with a kind of weary tolerance. I sometimes wonder how much this
all too human reaction of frustration has to do with the advice of a
few doctors who in recent years have opposed the use of psychoactive
drugs altogetherand whether any of them would ever think
of telling a diabetic patient to try harder to get well.


The stigma of depression is sometimes unwittingly perpetrated
by those of us who write about it, who subscribe to the notion that

[p. <i>12</i>]

I do not believe depression is the special province of any particular
group; I don't see it as a "feminist" issue. I am distrustful of data
which show that the incidence of depression is much higher among
women than among men, because I do not think our culture has ever
permitted men to express psychic pain the same ways that women
do. Nor can we know with any degree of certainty how the statistics
in our century stand in comparison to, say, the incidence of depression
in late-nineteenth-century France. Statistics on depression are
like statistics about crime; all we know is the reported incidence.
They give us broad landmarks, not precise information.


It is one of the ironies of the history of this illness that new drug
treatments for itdrugs with names like Prozac, Paxil and Zoloft
emerged in this country about the same time the antidrug crusade
reached its zenith. The antidrug slogans are everywhere, emblazoned
on shopping bags and on the sides of tractor trailer trucks. "Drugs
are a dead end." "Just say no to drugs." "Drugs kill." Hardly any
school in the country does not have a sign proudly announcing that it
is a "drug-free zone." Added to this is the belief among many non-M.D.
psychotherapists that drugs are an illicit shortcut, that the only
way to truly solve problems is through years of painful self-analysis.

[p. <i>13</i>]

But she's right, in a way. Ray Fuller, one of the Eli Lilly scientists
who developed Prozac, put it this way when I interviewed him
for a <i>Washington</i> Post story several years ago: "If the brain were simple
enough for us to understand, we would be too simple to understand
it." Altering brain chemistry alters behavior, he saidbut the hidden
reverse is also true: altering behavior alters brain chemistry. This
makes sense to me. And in accepting this, I find no diminishment
of the mystery of human consciousness. If anything, the mystery
deepens.


Mental illness is a kind of exile into a foreign territory of the
mind, although this foreign territory is right next door. It is a
roomimagine it as plain white, featureless, emptywhich most
people may not enter, and from which others may never leave. Those
of us who have seen it from the inside may or may not be able to
send back bulletins, and until now those bulletins have been understandable
to others only in the music of poetry, in music itself, or in
the simplest of prose.


"It's cold in here," we may say. "I hurt. I am miserable."


And those on the other side may hear. They may even partly
understand. But the message has never come through in clear, everyday
language, told with coherence, sophistication, and detail.


Until now, that is. Now that medicine has come up with effective
ways to treat depression, those of us who suffer from it have
become co-investigators into this new science of the brain; for the
first time, sizable numbers of us can return from that featureless
white room to add our voices to the debate about psychotropic drugs

[p. <i>14</i>]

Looking back at those carefully rounded letters in the green
stenographer's pad, I marvel at how little that fourteen-year-old
knew, and how prescient those words were in describing the struggle
she faced. And I'm glad she made it.

