Transcript of Audio File:
______________________________________________________________________________
BEGIN TRANSCRIPT:
CLIENT: Well I'd initially thought that what I wanted to talk about was that I've completely – I don't know. I had a paper due yesterday for my library school class, and I just couldn't write it. I mean part of the problem was is that her assignment, the professor's assignment – we had to find teen policies in a library that you could visit as well as – one library we could visit and one just any library. And most of the libraries, (inaudible)—don't have teen policies. [00:01:08]
So the thing that she – So I was just like, "Huh, maybe you should have thought of this before you gave this assignment because..." So a lot of people, like five people ended up talking about the Public Library because they happen to have one, but all these other libraries didn't. And so I had this experience (ph) feeling really frustrated. You know, "I can't find what I want. I can't..." I e-mailed a teen librarian, and she's like, "Yeah, we don't have a policy either," and it was just like, I don't know, like unreasonably – like the sort of beginning part before I could write just felt super frustrating. [00:01:54]
And then, it's not that long a paper, but whenever I sat down – I was sitting at my computer to write, (pause) I just felt super, I don't know, like really tense, really unhappy, and I really didn't want to work on it. Part of the problem being that I was trying to work on it during the work day, which didn't really work. Tuesday I had a stressful work day, and I was like, "I just can't work on it tonight." And then I had to do a training on Wednesday I really didn't want to do. It was with the head of IT that I was worried was going to start yelling at me. And so I was really just a nervous wreck for that. [00:03:00]
Then he canceled the training a half hour before it was going to start, and he was just like, "Oh, some people are out. I'm going to reschedule it." Oh my God, oh my God. And weirdly, that made me somehow – like I was more tense and stressed, because I didn't get the chance to be like, "Okay, I've done it." My plan was to do the training, it was going to be over by noon, and I was like, "I'll go get lunch, and then I'll just sit at one of the public computers and write," or something like that.
And then it didn't happen, and I just sort of stayed at my desk just feeling more and more stressed, and trying to – It just felt really difficult to even – to get out what I had got – I'd printed out some things, and I was just like, "I don't want to go through these." Because I felt like it was going to just not work out. And I stressed and I stressed and I stressed, and finally I e-mailed my professor to say, "I can't turn it in tomorrow. I need an extension." [00:04:04] And she said, "Fine," but she also quite reasonably said, "I need you to give me more notice next time." Which made me really freak out for about 15 minutes, and then I'm like, "No wait, I still got the extension." But I had this moment of like, "Oh God, I'm not getting the extension because I didn't give her enough time, and I really should have e-mailed her on Tuesday when I first started freaking out."
And last night I was trying to talk about it with Ashby, (sp?) and she was like, "Oh, you know, I know this..." She knows the Public Library teen librarian. And she's like, ["Oh, you know, Google seven teen policies."] (ph) I'm like, "That's not exactly..." I didn't really (pause) –Well, it made me feel really kind of dumb. Because she was finding – she was like, "Well here, here," like immediately, while I'd spent a lot of time trying to find things and not really getting them. [00:05:22]
And also it's like it's not that I don't have something to write about, even though I'm so frustrated with it; it's that I can't write it. I try to sit down, and I just get all tensed up, and I feel angry, and I feel upset, and I can't – I just can't start it. [It's kind of like – it might as well have been] (ph) like when I was an undergrad sometimes I would (pause) procrastinate and procrastinate, but I almost never asked for an extension (inaudible at 00:06:10) really did like my senior year. I'd sort of avoid it, and avoid it, and avoid it, and then finally at the last minute I was like, "Fine." I would kind of knuckle down and work on it.
But I don't know. It's like I've been trying to and I just can't. And at this point, I also think that I'm kind of getting myself more stressed about not being able to write. Like the fact (inaudible) and I got an extension is stressing me out and making it harder for me to write a paper. [00:06:52] (long pause)
THERAPIST: Do you have any sense of what's going on? [00:07:42]
CLIENT: (pause) Not really. I mean, sort of. I've written papers during – like at work many times, or started them. I don't know, like what I've noticed the last week or two that – I guess part of feeling really stressed for a really long time is that I feel like all the, like the sort of minor things that bother me are just hugely magnified. Like (pause) I had a complete freak out, like multi-day kind of meltdown over not being able to find one of my medications that I don't – it's not a daily medication. I needed it for a dental appointment next week. [00:08:54]
And so two weeks prior I'm like, "Where is that?" And it was one of those things where sometimes, like before I go to bed I'll think of something. I'm like, "Where did I leave the thing?" And usually I go look for a little bit, and I'm like, "Okay whatever." (inaudible at 00:09:12) I just found it really hard to not just look everywhere for it, and just keep on thinking about like "I need to find that stupid thing," and then being really mad at myself that I couldn't find it. Because I ran into a friend of mine in the Square, and we were right near where he lives. He's like, "Oh, do you want to come over and have a drink?" And I was just like, "I need to go home and look."
I decided that I was going to go home and look one more place and then I would just call the pharmacy. But I was so stressed about calling the pharmacy, because of the last time I went to fill – The last few times I went to fill prescriptions, (pause) both times the pharmacist asked me a question what I was taking. [00:10:08] So I went to fill my antidepressant and Ativan, and she asked me a question about the Ativan. She was like, "Well, you know, you..." (inaudible) I'd refilled it more frequently than I had before, and it's just like, "Yes." And she said, "Okay, I just want to check."
And then I wanted to refill a prescription for Valium, and she was like, "Do you understand that you're taking Ativan and Valium at the same time? You shouldn't do that. And who prescribed this to you and do they understand?" And I'm like, "The same doctor prescribed me both. I don't actually take them..." I don't take Valium every day. [I actually haven't taken it in a month.] (ph) And she just sort of like (pause) – I kind of wanted to say, "I'm not engaging in drug-seeking behavior. I have not tricked my psychiatrist. Will you just fill the fucking prescription?" [00:11:16]
And so the reason I was freaking out is the prescription that I couldn't find is for Halcion. It's a sedating mildly amnesiac. It's a heavy-duty sedative, and so my dentist –
THERAPIST: (inaudible at 00:11:38)
CLIENT: I know, it's great. I mean it's – my dentist uses it for dental work sedation. It makes you – puts you like in a twilight sleep, where you don't remember – (inaudible) you don't remember what's going on for a couple hours. And so he only prescribes like four. And (inaudible) took one, and gives this whole thing about it, and I was thinking, "If I call the pharmacy and say I lost Halcion, they're going to lose their mind." [00:12:06]
And so I was just super upset, and I finally have to call them. And they were like, "Oh yeah, we just didn't fill it." "What do you mean?" They're like, "Well..." [They said they were like] (ph) "Well it's Halcion. We wanted to make sure that you actually wanted it." And so my dentist had called it in, but they were refusing to fill it until I...
THERAPIST: Until you come?
CLIENT: Yeah. And I had picked up – so I picked up two batches of prescriptions. I just assumed that they'd just filled everything for me. So on the one hand I was like, "Oh thank God I know what the hell is going on," but then I was like, "Oh, [this is crazy."] (ph) Like "Why is my pharmacy driving me crazy?" And even after – [like after I did that] (ph) it was just hard to let go of it. [00:13:00]
[I just noticed I started feeling] (ph) – like things that make me feel a little bit nervous or a little bit stressed, again (ph) I don't really like talking on the phone a lot, and it's just been like – I just really don't want to talk on the phone, and it's hard to be like – Normally I'm like, "I don't want talk on the phone. Okay, fine." Phone. (ph) And then I feel like it just seems really, really difficult and it just – I can't really make myself do it, like kind of get over the hump to just be like, "Fine, I just need to do this."
And then I really didn't want to – I was putting off doing the student training that Chet wanted me to do, partially because I thought it was stupid, but also it's like – the student training, it's like I'm meeting a bunch of – I don't know them, so I have to meet them, explain all this stuff to them, and it just always – it's kind of like, I don't know, not stage fright quite, but like performance anxiety. And so usually I'm like, "Uh." And so I do that for like a day or two, and then I just e-mail him and set up the training, but I put it off for I think three weeks. [00:14:20]
THERAPIST: Okay. So you're like – (inaudible) kind of more inhibited [from these things?] (ph) (inaudible) like the paper, the phone call to the pharmacy, the training with Chet, or for Chet.
CLIENT: Yeah. I don't know. I guess (pause) yeah. I mean, I don't think of it as being more inhibited. I more feel like – I feel more out of control. Or rather, I feel like I can't control – when I feel something I can't (pause) I don't know, control my response to that, I guess. Like once I start worrying about something it's really hard to stop, even for things where normally I know I could and would. [00:15:26]
THERAPIST: Stop?
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: I see. So [it doesn't feel to you] (ph) (inaudible) blocked from doing anything, [from your] (ph) immediate experience is of your worry being out of control, and not being able to manage it as you usually would, [especially you] (ph) could actually do the things you need to do.
CLIENT: Yeah. Although (inaudible at 00:15:51) – I guess I think actually for writing the paper (inaudible) before the other things I more feel out of control in that. Like I just can't stop being worried. (inaudible) my paper, I feel more tight and closed off, and just like hunched over and tense. [00:16:18] (long pause) [00:17:20]
THERAPIST: Well, I guess I've been making a fair amount of noise lately about you and being angry, and I'm going to make some more noise about that. Because, I mean, each of these things involves something that happened that's very frustrating for you, to which your response is mostly to get very, very anxious. (pause) [00:18:00] [It's not] (ph) as though you feel [no sense of] (ph) frustration, but that it's fairly minimal and far less than the anxiety you feel. Which makes me wonder whether some of the anxiety is actually response to being very angry, more so even than to the thing itself. Does that make sense?
CLIENT: Mm-hmm. (pause) I don't know. I mean oddly enough it's making me think for the first time that I'm like – or not think, but be like, "I guess I really do have an anxiety disorder, because wow, I'm really anxious." I feel like I'm incredibly anxious every day, as opposed to being like, oh, you know, sometimes I am, sometimes I'm not. [00:19:01] (pause) It just feels like, [I don't know, constant] (ph) It also feels like it's interfering with my – I feel like my worry and anxiety is interfering with my ability to sort of do my normal life.
THERAPIST: That's certainly what you're describing.
CLIENT: Yeah. And it's really scary. I guess sort of like I don't know really what to do, which also makes me very anxious. (pause)
THERAPIST: You're feeling more being really afraid, and really kind of very insecure because (inaudible)? [00:20:01]
CLIENT: Yeah. I mean it also brings up all my worry about Mom – you know, my mom telling me like, "You're really mentally unstable. You need to do something." (pause) Like my mom's sort of constant worry that I've kind of been one step away from being in a mental hospital. Like if I accepted her diagnosis of me being bipolar then I would be fine, but since I'm not, it's always like (pause) – I feel like she's kind of waiting for – I don't know, like the inevitable, me in a psych ward. [00:21:04]
Not that I feel like I want to be in a psych ward, but having all the things I worry just make it difficult for me to do like getting (ph) to work, things (inaudible) makes me feel like – [gets me started] worrying about like, "Well what if she's right?" Or if I try to talk to her – (inaudible) I'm more worried about talking to my parents about work stuff, because (pause) –
THERAPIST: I mean, for what it's worth, you are nowhere near a psych ward.
CLIENT: Oh yeah. I know that. Like I know that, but it's one of those like (inaudible) trying to fall asleep. [00:22:03]
THERAPIST: Okay. [If you're telling me] (ph) mostly just to tell me the things you're worrying about, and the directions your mind goes when you're worried. I think that's important and we should be talking about it. I just (pause) was being reassuring.
CLIENT: No, I appreciate that.
THERAPIST: Sorry. I'm glad it [didn't sound like it was unnecessary.] (ph) (inaudible 00:22:30) Like you worry about it [in your thoughts] (ph) (inaudible) go there, but you don't get too carried away with it.
CLIENT: No. Although, the sort of – the downside of med student friends is (pause) – One of my friends (inaudible at 00:22:57) – I told her I was taking Valium (inaudible), and I woke up and I was like, "I can't stay awake. I can't do anything," and I felt really dizzy. And I saw her in chat and I was like, "So do you think taking Valium the night before is why I can't get out of my bed?" And she was like, "No." (inaudible at 00:23:27) And I was like, "Oh. Oh I haven't eaten anything in like 14 hours. That's probably the problem." But then I got a series of messages from her about how Valium is really serious, and I shouldn't take it frequently, and that it could affect my sleep, and this sort of litany of, "You should be careful with that." And I'm like, "I know." (pause) [00:23:58]
It's super frustrating. I know that she meant well, but (pause) it's not really helpful. And a couple of my friends have been like, "Oh..." Like I've mentioned, "Yeah, I've gone from taking Ativan occasionally to taking it every day, and sometimes more than once a day." And I've gotten several like, "Well, you shouldn't – you should be careful about – you don't want to develop a dependence." And then I also get when I mention like "Yes, I also have a script (ph) for Valium that I don't really use," everyone freaks out. I'm just like, "Uh." And, I don't know... (pause) [00:24:58]
I think a lot about (pause) like the problems of taking Ativan. I think a lot about, "Valium makes me feel really great. I can totally see that it would feel good to do this and take it all the time," which I'm totally not going to do, but taking it I'm like, "Yep, this is lovely." But I'm also like I don't – I don't know. Like I always worry about medication dependence, and I'm always freaked out about (pause) – Like I was really stressed for taking Ambien, and I'm still taking it, and I'm still periodically stressed about that. [00:26:00]
I don't know. I feel like, "Do people normally get prescriptions for Ativan and Valium and the doctor doesn't say, 'By the way, you could develop a dependence on them'?" I don't know. It's like the doctor is not – my psychiatrist is not just handing out pills like candy, and I feel like my friend's reaction as if she just wrote some things and handed them to me and said, "Goodbye." Which (pause) I guess it would really suck if that had happened, but that's not –
THERAPIST: It also strikes me that everybody is responding to that, and not to, "Oh gosh, sorry you're feeling anxious. Sorry you're having a hard time. What's going on?" [00:26:59]
CLIENT: Yeah. And (pause) I would rather have a discussion about ["I trust that you're so stressed] (ph) that you feel like you have to take Ativan or you can't cope," or anything to do with that, but it just doesn't go that way. It ended up being about (inaudible at 00:27:35) drug abuse, which –
THERAPIST: Somehow doesn't make you feel better?
CLIENT: No, it really doesn't. The other thing which I feel weirdly inhibited about talking about is I also – When I had fibroids (ph) one of the things I did for pain was start smoking pot, which worked amazingly well. [00:28:03]
And so (inaudible) when I go home I'm like, "All right, it's time for some pot." Which my roommate commented, which is quite true, she's like, "We've really cut down on alcohol consumption." (laughing) I'm like, "Yeah, it's true." (laughing) (inaudible) – She likes to drink whiskey and bourbon, [offers it to me] (ph) and she's like, "That pile (ph) has been full for forever." "I know, it's weird." So I kind of feel like that's – like it's a thing I'm doing. I'm smoking pot. I could also be drinking every night. I kind of feel better about smoking pot than drinking every night, although – And that's (inaudible) my friends as well. [00:28:51]
THERAPIST: Yeah. I don't know if this is the reason, but the first thing that came to my mind when you said that you felt weirdly inhibited about talking about it was like you've just finished telling me how everybody, when you tell them what you've been taking, freaks out, and then you feel strange about telling me you've been smoking more pot. I guess I imagined you were going to be worried that – I imagine you were worried that I was going to freak out, or start giving you a lecture about it, or something like that.
CLIENT: Well also part of it is that I'm like, "It's illegal. We shouldn't be talking about it." So even though I'm aware that you're not about to call the police, I just feel like, "Oh, but it's illegal."
THERAPIST: I see.
CLIENT: I never – I didn't smoke pot as a teenager, or in college. I spent a really long time in my life not doing illegal drugs, and now I'm like, "Oh..." It's a little weird. So I feel just a little bit self conscious, because I'm like, "No I should..." Part of me is like, "I should have just gotten over that when I was a teenager, or in college like everyone else did." [00:30:14]
And then Ashby always mocks me about it. She's like, "In California, no one cares." It's like offering someone a glass of wine. "Do you want some wine? Do you want some pot?" and no one cares. She's also kind of laughing at me about feeling weird about it. She's like, "You're not going to get arrested. (inaudible) smokes pot." I'm like, "I know. But what if...?" (pause) I don't even know what. It's a very weird and great worry. But yeah, one of my friends [is upset] (ph) and she's like, "Well, it's like you're drinking a six-pack every day." I'm like, "I'm really not." [00:31:00]
Yes, drinking a six-pack every day would concern me. I don't think I literally probably could do that, or like whatever. I understand her point, and yeah, it's probably not the best thing ever to use – to drink or get stoned as a way to deal with stress. That said, I kind of – I feel like (pause) – I don't know. Part of me is like, "If you're going to give me shit about smoking pot, you might want to consider that I have a ton of prescribed medication that I can take that also have dramatic (ph) effects." (inaudible) interest about that too. [00:31:58]
So I don't know, it's like (pause) – I guess it does make me angry, because I feel like – I think about – I worry about dependence a lot, and I worry about psychiatric medication, and I worry about my own mental health. I spend a lot of time on that, and (pause) having my friends give me shit over it as if I never think about it – I don't know. Like every time – whenever someone does that I'm always like – I feel like, "Don't you know me? All I do is worry about this." (pause) I don't know. [00:33:00]
THERAPIST: I see. [That sounds like a] (ph) big part of that is being really misconstrued.
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: I guess there is that quality to these responses you're getting from people, that they're sort of almost a little canned. Like your medicine friend is like, "These are the things you should be concerned about." It's like you get lost. Partly in the sort of slightly canned nature of it, and especially in the fact that [you're pretty responsible. And it happens you read a lot about that.] (ph) [00:34:01]
CLIENT: Yeah. And kind of like I can go to Dr. Google if I want to be paranoid about all the things that could be going wrong. One of my friends, her comment was – she's like, "I just want to mention real quick..." She sort of was like, "Just to get it out there, (inaudible) dependence is really crappy. Maybe you should worry about that (inaudible)." And I was like, "Appreciate it." And then we kind of went back to talking about my work stress. And partially because she had had a period where she was drinking pretty heavily, and got really scared that she couldn't stop drinking, so stopped drinking for six months, and then was like, "All right, I can do that." And it was totally work-related. So I knew where she was coming from. [00:35:04]
And I also appreciated she sort of was like, "I just need to say this really quickly and then move on [after talking to you about it."] (ph) Which I get, because sometimes (pause) – [sometimes when] (ph) I talk to my friends, I'm kind of like, "I just want to say the thing that – I just want to say briefly, if you're feeling like self harm you should call 9-1-1," or whatever. It's kind of like, "All right, now that we got that out of the way, let's go back to the actual conversation." And I feel like a lot of people are just stuck in the – I don't know, the safety warnings, or something.
THERAPIST: It sounds like they're getting anxious.
CLIENT: Yeah, I guess. [00:36:03]
THEARAPIST: In a way that makes it hard for them to stay connected to you.
CLIENT: Yeah. I mean the other thing is that I wanted to be – I try to be open about taking antidepressants and taking other things, because I don't want to be ashamed of it, and also I'm like, "It's something that I think about, so let's just talk about it." [In some way I'm like] (ph) I want to be able to casually mention this, because I feel like if I start lying to my friends about taking Ativan or smoking pot, that that sort of started becoming like a negative thing. I don't want to lie to people about that. [00:37:07]
So now I'm feeling like, "Should I lie to them? I really don't want to, but I also don't want to..." [It feels like they're] (ph) worrying about the wrong thing, and so I don't want them to be worried, but (pause) – I don't know. Like I want to – I just want to – I want to be able to talk to my friends and (inaudible at 00:38:00) but I also – I don't know. I think I (inaudible) – I guess I wish that we could either just talk about like, "Are you concerned that I'm a drug addict? Let's just talk about that," or "Let's talk about all the things that are stressing me out." Like giving the sort of canned "Be careful with drugs" isn't really conversation about anything.
THERAPIST: Nope. Nope. It's a bit of a sermon.
CLIENT: And it makes me feel really [different from everyone.] (ph)
THERAPIST: And I think you get lost. [00:39:01]
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: It's very distant kind of interaction I think.
CLIENT: Well, it makes me feel like they're – I don't know, like – Yeah, I do feel lost because I'm sort of like, "You're not really having a conversation with me. You're sort of..." We all know how you're supposed to respond if you're concerned that your friend has a substance abuse problem, so I feel like I'm getting sort of, "I need to be concerned so I'm going to say this thing." As opposed to – I don't know, giving me genuine concern, like "I'm worried about how this might..." It feels so generic. It doesn't feel like they're really talking about me. [00:39:59]
(inaudible) I also feel like – I mean maybe they're doing this and I'm just being stubborn about it. I'm like, I can not talk about prescription or recreational (inaudible). I could not if someone – if that bothers people, but I kind of want someone just to say that. I have a friend who's an alcoholic in recovery, and she's just like, "I really don't want to ever (inaudible). If you're drunk, or talking about going out drinking, or alcoholic, I just [can't have] (ph) that conversation." Totally got it. [00:40:53]
So part of me is like, "Is it that the whole topic makes you uncomfortable?" I don't know. (pause) I get that they're concerned, but I don't feel like I totally know about what. And if they're concerned about me specifically, or sort of concerned conceptually about prescription drug abuse, or the idea that psychiatrists hand out pills and don't listen to their patients.
THERAPIST: [Going to have to stop for now. We'll talk more on Monday.] (ph) [00:41:49]
END TRANSCRIPT
