Transcript of Audio File:
______________________________________________________________________________
BEGIN TRANSCRIPT:
THERAPIST: Hi, come on in.
CLIENT: Thank you. Hi.
THERAPIST: Hi.
CLIENT: How nice is it out?
THERAPIST: Yeah, it's beautiful.
CLIENT: We just didn't have winter. There was spring and now summer. It's like. So I've been having a lot of like similar feeling when I was having not a lot of but been noticing a few similar feelings for when I was having bad anxiety. It has been like creeping up the last couple of days, just my like shortness of breath and my like kind of throat closing feeling. Not like they used to be where it was just all the time. I'll just ... suddenly I'll be like (pause) feel kind of tense and anxious and don't know why. Usually I can just breathe and work myself, you know calm myself down and get out of it. I think a big part of it is that I haven't worked out in two weeks since I'm just kind of in my normal. But another part I think I'm just really ... we started talking about the move and I think I'm just really anxious about the actual moving. Just I sort of just like, you know like, what things we're going to take. What things we're going to leave. Are we taking the couch? Are we going to buy a new couch? Are we going to have enough money to buy a new couch? Are we like ... what are we, you know? (pause)
(00:01:31)
CLIENT: We're going to be leaving in ... our lease is up in June and then we'll stay with our friends for the month of June and then we'll meet there. We found a new apartment but it's not going to be built. They're building right now. It's going to be ready October 15<sup>th</sup>. But that means for July, August, September, and two weeks in October we're going to be in my parent's house. And that, you know stresses me out for a number of reasons. I don't know where we're going to put all of our stuff. I mean they have this one room in the basement but it certainly doesn't hold an apartments worth of things. And (pause) Chris is going to be studying for the Bar. Which he had study ... this last week was his spring break and he was studying for a portion of the bar, the MPREs and he took them on Saturday and they were supposed to be this really easy portion. He was saying going into it like, "Oh that's going to be easy, people study in the car on the way." And for the three days before he was just (pause) irritable and just a grouch. And you know he's up at six and studying ... you know I'd come home at seven and make dinner and then he'd go, "All right, I have half hour what do you want to do because I have to go back to studying?" I was like; "This is going to be what it's like the whole time you're studying for the bar?" And I knew it wasn't going to be a cake walk and it wasn't going to be fun, but like you're going be a pill aren't you and we're going to have a hard time? And that makes me so nervous and just really nervous that we're not going to be in our own space, I'm really nervous about it.
(00:03:15)
We're going to be at our friend's house for one month of it and then my parent's house for another month of it and just going into that knowing that he's going to be on edge and we're going be not in our comfort zone makes really tense. Just knowing that like (pause) that's going to add his stress because he's not going to feel totally comfortable and that I know that I'm going to try to compensate and try to like (pause) like, "You want me to do this? Do you want?" You know (pause) and I'm just really nervous about that. (pause) And realistically the moving stuff isn't that difficult. I mean like at the end of the day like if it's just about keeping furniture, getting rid of furniture, that's not that big of a deal. It's the like, "Are we going to have?" You know spending like (pause) like researching furniture prices and stuff and it's like, "Are we going to have two thousand dollars to buy new living room furniture?" And like we're just not I don't think in October. And you know things like that.
(00:04:30)
(pause)
He's really nervous about money and I'm less so nervous about money. I just (pause) but we had our first kind of like conversation about everything yesterday that went well the whole time until like fifteen to twenty minutes into I said, "You like this is going really well and I'm really happy. And so I want to ... I feel like this is a good stopping point so I want to stop now and like cleanup the breakfast dishes so that we leave this conversation feeling good." Because I didn't want it (pause) is that a bad idea? I just didn't know like if that was (pause) it's not like I was like cutting him off and saying like, "All right we have to stop now." Like we were at an appropriated stopping point. We could have kept going but I was feeling like this whole discussion for the last like I don't know it was probably like twenty minutes or half an hour. I think it I just said fifteen minutes but I think it was a little longer than that. Anyway it had been really good and both of us were really listening to each other. Both of us were able to except not criticisms but like, "When you do this it doesn't work for me and this is why." We were really listening to each other and so I just said like, "I kind of want to stop now so that we both can feel really good and then maybe it's easier to come back to it next time when we have to talk about other things that are a little harder to talk about." I don't know do you think that was a bad idea?
THERAPIST: What makes you ask? Are you unsure if it was (crosstalk)?
CLIENT: Yeah I'm unsure if that was maybe like a (pause) like a copout. Because I was afraid that it was going to ... I was afraid that we would start talking about something and it would taint the good portion of the conversation that we just had had and it would be just left with a another negative feeling about finances and future plans. And I was really nervous that that would happen. And so I was trying to keep this one good. But I don't know if that was just a coward move.
THERAPIST: Mm-hm.
(00:06:47)
CLIENT: I don't know.
(pause)
THERAPIST: Cowardly, how?
CLIENT: By not like taking it to like a further place like (pause) what we were saying was more like when we have these conversations this is how I feel and when you do this it makes it hard for me this way. And then we'd talk more about like he'd say, "You know I think we should just buy a car instead of leasing a car." But we talked about specific things like that but we didn't sit down like we need to do and look into (pause) this is just once but a good example. Do more detail things like looking into leases at different dealerships and things like that. And look into prices of cars that we could potentially buy. You know it's like our concrete things we didn't (pause) expand further into the more detailed concrete decision-making. (pause) But I wanted it to be like going into that next time we were already kind of feeling like, "Okay, we're okay. We can do this." I mean had heard each other before. I don't know I guess when we talked about it, it was a good idea. It felt like a good idea. (pause) What? You're making a face. (chuckle)
(00:08:06)
THERAPIST: Am I? What does my face look like?
CLIENT: Like ... I don't know like "Yup you're going ..." Kind of like I'm not figuring it out. (pause) Anyway so I guess ...
THERAPIST: I was struck by your asking me if I approved essentially and then you realized that actually you approved.
CLIENT: Mm-hm.
THERAPIST: I'm sort of interested in that process.
CLIENT: Yeah. (pause) I don't know why I'm so ... I need to go for a run. (Laugh) I think I just really need to go run. I just feel so (pause) anxious about all of it. (pause)
THERAPIST: It seems like you went from thinking, "Oh this was a good decision, we're in a good place." To then going back to feeling anxious.
CLIENT: I'm anxious that like we have so much to talk about. What we talked a lot about yesterday was that (pause) we're total opposites in the sense that I want talk about something one time and I would make a decision then. And that's not practical. I mean just realizing like you have to weigh options, you know like (inaudible_00:09:22). But Chris wants to about things (pause) a lot of times for an extensive period of time. And he wants to bring it up ... because he'll just be thinking about all the time. I mean it's a whole ... he'll bring things up out of nowhere. And we're just at really opposite ends of the spectrum about it and like he says to me like, "We had a twenty minute conversation about planning for the summer and you came away from it thinking like it was done, it was a plan. And I came away from it thinking like we were talking about a potential idea and things were still up in the air." And we walked away from this one conversation having two totally different feelings on the subject. And (pause) and I dread rehashing plans like that over and over and over and over. It makes me feel like, "Why are we ...?" I just feel like why are we still talking about this plan like we've written down how much money we're bringing in. We've written down how much money we think we'll be spending as best we can, you know figure out from our, you know research and I don't know what more to talk about. Like at certain point I don't know what more to say and then I feel like he's smarter because he has all these other ways of thinking about a different situation that I can't ... like I haven't thought of and that I haven't (pause) And then I just get like, "I don't know. I don't care. Like I don't care." I can't keep talking about this one thing, this one thing over and over and over and over.
(00:11:09)
Because nothing is changing. And like I can't talk about ... I can't talk about like (pause) what we'll do with your bonus in December when it's May or rather in March and like we don't know ... like I can't talk about that right now, I don't know. I don't know what we'll ... and so I just can't ... like I get frustrated because I feel like we talk about the same thing or he wants to talk about the same thing over and over and over and over.
THERAPIST: Do you feel like he needs much more of plan than you?
CLIENT: Yeah. He needs to weigh the pros and cons. I really (pause) I really like a plan but I like a plan and then I kind of am a little irresponsible in the sense that I don't think about all the aspects of the plan. I don't necessarily weigh all the ... like (pause) when we sit down we budget a potential trip that we want to take to California and we say, "Oh and then we'll maybe like take a weekend. We'll borrow your parent's car and we'll take a weekend to this little ..." You know this little town we sort of ... I don't really ... I like throw up some numbers that I kind of would get. But I don't look into it and I don't like take it to the ... and you know he just thinks of these other things that ... he wants to think about all aspects of the plan and I kind of want (pause) a plan but I don't really want to like ... I don't know. I'm not as thorough.
THERAPIST: Do you feel this part of his OCD?
CLIENT: Yes. It's absolutely part of his OCD. And I really try to be as understanding as possible in that. We both bring a lot of issues to the table and I appreciate respect when it comes to my anxiety but I (pause) I just have a hard time talking about things over and over and over. And (pause) it absolutely is ... it's what makes him (pause) you know he was saying yesterday he's just terrified we're going to make some terrible financial decision and be locked into it and that we're just screwed and that we can't get out of it. And I just don't feel that way about life. I feel like there's only a handful of decisions that you can make that you're locked into forever and there's nothing you can do to get out of it. One of those is having a kid and one of those is ... I mean outside of that that's the only one that you're locked into and that's it. You know leasing a car ... like yeah you'll probably have to pay some money and that will suck. Renting an apartment ... leases in apartments aren't that difficult to get out of. You said so yourself so many times. Like there's these things that you're saying you're we're going to get locked into with these terrible financial decisions with no ability to get out of ... but that's just not true. And I don't want to make terrible decisions either.
(00:14:23)
But I don't think we're being wildly (pause) I'm arguing with him in my head; that's what I'm doing. I don't think we're being like wildly inappropriate with our money or irresponsible or ... I just, I mean he's very, he's very nervous. He's just ... the salary that he was offered at this firm isn't just not what he was expecting and I think it makes him really uncomfortable and really nervous.
THERAPIST: Do you feel that his anxiety rubs off on you?
CLIENT: Mm-hm. (pause) Yeah because I feel like it's just focusing on all these ... like it's harder for us to be ... just like right now is the time to be really excited and really like ... right now he's finishing up his, you know finishing up law school and it's a time to be really proud and like reflect on the things he's done in the last three years and to be focusing kind of on ... I mean like planning is a good thing too but I feel like we should be more like celebratory and really enjoying kind of the moment of being here or doing and kind of proud of how far he's come at least. Like I feel like he's really grown the last three years. I don't know I just feel like I can't ... I want to be excited about what we're doing. I want to be excited about where we're going. I don't want this ho-hum, doom and gloom terror to be blanketing everything. And that really like sends me into kind of (pause) like this panicked state. And I start not wanting things that I wanted or you know (pause) I don't know. I just (pause) I explain that to him ... like I feel like you're just ... like all I hear from you is about these fears. This fear of us signing a lease on this car. This fear of signing this lease on this apartment. This fear of us you know (pause) you know having enough money for retirement. He's all about retirement right now. Like he's taking some class about, you know, at school. It's like, "We actually start paying for retirement." Which is great and logical and I appreciate that he has so much forethought and that. But like (pause) I get it, we'll start saving for retirement. (pause) Like what else do you have to say? Like ...
(00:17:10)
THERAPIST: Do you feel like he's like getting help for his OCD?
CLIENT: No. He's not. He was, that was one of our conditions when we got married was ... when we got engaged I said, "Like you know like you're going to need to see somebody about this." And he did and then we got married and then he stopped going. (pause) And then he said he's just too busy and he has the journal and he's doing school and you know he's got like too much going on. (pause) (sigh) I don't know. I'm hoping that when we get there he'll be able to. (pause)
THERAPIST: Do you think he's saying that because he's truly very busy or do you think he is reluctant to go?
CLIENT: He's reluctant to go. He didn't want to go. He was sure that you know everything that they were going to tell him he already knew himself.
THERAPIST: Mm-hm. So then why does he still have his problem?
CLIENT: No shit.
THERAPIST: Do you bring that up with him?
CLIENT: No I don't want to be critical. I don't understand it and so I can't tell him how to handle something that I don't understand. The only thing that I can do is explain to him how it affects me and (pause) but I also don't want to make him feel bad about that. I don't want to say like (pause), "Your OCD makes it really difficult to be married to you sometimes." Because there's tons of things about me that are really difficult ... that make me a difficult person to be married to. (pause) (sigh) So. I don't know.
(00:18:58)
THERAPIST: I'm not sure how that's relevant.
CLIENT: I don't know either. I just don't want to like (pause) I'm always really conscious of not saying things to him that ... like, like I don't want to say something to him that's like, "Well yeah me too." You know saying something like (pause) you know saying something like some part of your mental ... like the way that your ... I don't know how to say this. (pause) I was going to say mental disorder and I guess that's appropriate. That you bring to the table makes you difficult sometimes. It makes this hard and I just feel like he feels the same way but I'm here and he's not. And the thing is me coming here had a lot to do with him. I didn't ... it was mostly for myself but I was fully aware of the fact that like it probably wasn't that great to be married to me when I would go off the rails and cry for no reason and not know how to handle it. Like that's not fun. Like nobody likes that.
(00:20:18)
And I don't like when he is so obsessed with certain things that there's no more talking about it anymore. (sigh) (pause) Just like no one in his family ... his brother is the only one in their family that's ever gone and saw ... like gone to see somebody for his (pause) stuff and his brother has such a label on their family as just kind of off the wall that I think that he associates treatment or you know therapy with being like really off the wall. It's like ... sometimes your OCD is just off the fricken wall. (pause) It's like little things that I just, I just do but they just annoy me. Like our friends leave and his last therapist that he saw said that to like ... because what was happening originally was that I was checking text messages for him, e-mails for him. He'd get off the phone he'd ask me if everything was okay because he has this fear that he's going to say something that's incredibly offensive without intending too. I'd read papers for him, like everything. And she said like we had to slow stop. I knew obviously and logically that like this wasn't helping him in the long term. But it was good to have a third party say like ... you know (pause) and so this needs to stop and so you know slowly weaned off and now I just don't ... like if he asks me to check something for grammar, try to make really sure that or like you know whatever, try to make really sure that that's what it's for. (pause) But like our friends will leave (pause) and he'll be like, "Was everything okay?" Like you fricken know everything was fine. I answer every time but I hate that I have to answer that. I hate it. It drives me crazy. (pause)
(00:22:36)
THERAPIST: That he seeks your assurance that way?
CLIENT: Yeah and that like (pause) he knows and he knows that by asking me that he's not doing himself any favors. But (pause) by asking me every time. But you know like you know you're not helping yourself by ... and I just don't want to start a fight and so I always say like, "Yes everything was fine." And his last therapist said that he would get one ask a day and that what he usually uses it for when we're with friends and then they leave. But it's like I know if you'd kept going to your therapist you would have said a month later like now you have to stop doing that. But he stopped seeing her and so that one thing still sits there and it's still used. (pause) And it just annoys me and it's not that difficult, it doesn't (pause) ... but it just ...
THERAPIST: And you don't feel like you can say, "You know I don't want you to ask me this anymore?"
CLIENT: No because I feel like ... I mean I could, obviously I could and I should and that's what I should be doing. (pause) But I don't because I guess (pause) it's easier than fighting. Because he's going to get pissed when I say. And then he's going to feel ... and I just know about his like cycle of like thoughts that happen afterwards. He just reruns the entire day. He can remember an entire conversation and he just replays it in his head. And it's like he'll just sit there and do that and just obsess about it. I mean the guy is really fricken smart but he uses all this energy to obsess about these in my opinion, I know they're not ridiculous to him but just these ridiculous things. It's just like we're just hanging out with my friends playing scrabble. It was fine. It was fine. (pause)
(00:24:53)
I feel a lot better. Nobody knows about his OCD but me and his family and he didn't even talk to his family about it until after he told me. So it's all been a very new thing maybe in the last five years. (pause) And so, you know none of his friends know and none of my friends know and none of my family knows, so sometimes it feels like just us trapped in this crazy like ... sometimes I feel like we're just two lunatics living in the same house together. (chuckle) (pause) The thing is it got so much better after I got to see somebody because it was bad before. (pause) And I'm just so frustrated. (pause)
THERAPIST: And you don't feel he listens to you?
CLIENT: No. Not in that. I mean he did before but I don't if that's just because there was like ... what I said was a condition for us to get married. I don't know, I don't know why he listened to me that time. And like (pause) I don't know. (pause) But I don't know maybe I should bring it up again and ask him if he would think about it. (pause)
(00:26:44)
He actually doesn't see how he sees the like (pause) because all his friends will ... you like ... it's like everybody has this, not that I'm painting Chris like this like downer. He's not like that but like everybody knows Chris's got like a sarcastic like (pause) judgmental side to him and everybody kind of like talks about it and says like, "Chris would hate that." "Chris like ..." And he said, "Why does everybody think that I'm just down on stuff? And why does everybody think that I would, you know I'm negative?" It's like well if all your friends ... I mean his friends love him. They don't think that he's like this negative guy all the time. But like everybody just kind of knows that that's part of Chris's personality. It's like, "Well honey if everybody is saying it then like a little bit of it has to just ... you have to think about it for yourself. You have to think about what you're putting out there." And I wasn't bringing up other people actually but I was trying to say that like in regards talking about the moving what I feel like all you've been bringing to the table has been negative and it makes me really anxious. He had no awareness of that. I really feel like I'm just trying to keep it mostly inside and trying to ... it's like I mean I can't imagine what's going on in your head if you feel like the only thing you're expressing ... if you're mostly expressing joy to me, what must be going on in your head? Because (pause) ninety percent of the things you say about next year are concerns and worries and (pause) I would at least like that to be fifty percent, you know? I'd be fine with fifty. Let's do a little fifty/fifty. Let's do, "Hey I'm really excited about this but this thing is making me nervous." (pause) (sigh)
(00:28:53)
(pause)
It does sound like his OCD, right? That's not just me? I mean it felt like it was just ... I mean ... I don't know. Sometimes the thing is I can't distinguish, I can't tell if it's him being logical and rational about stuff because a lot of times I think like, "You're worrying about this way too much." But I can't sometimes tell if it's his OCD or if it's me just being flaky and kind of like having a mentality of like it will all just workout.
THERAPIST: This is a common like ... I don't know struggle for you whether you can trust your own mind and your own judgment.
CLIENT: Mm-hm.
(pause)
THERAPIST: And I think probably at times it makes it hard for you to ask for things.
CLIENT: Yeah. (pause) I feel like everyone would just be able to poke holes in whatever I've said.
THERAPIST: Mm-hm.
CLIENT: I mean that's also my husband's personality. He (pause) he was born a lawyer. That kid came out of the womb arguing. I mean he's just ... and he's smart as hell. He can just see through so many different things and it's like to the point where I can't think that fast. I don't know what you're even talking about. I can't think that quickly. And so I also can't remember a conversation that we had three years ago. But you can and that is always going to make me feel like an idiot and I'm never (pause) I mean his mom's aware and he ... the two of them grew up really close and then hit a rocky spot and would fight like cats and dogs for three years I think. And now they're really close again.
(00:31:02)
And I think that just his relationship with her had made him ... he thinks like a lawyer. He just always has. And can't argue like that or not even argue like that but I can't have a conversation like that. I'm too emotional. And I also just have a terrible memory. But yeah I always go into things not trusting myself because I know as soon as I say something there's going to be so many things that he or someone else is going to come back with. I mean like my memory is terrible. It's ridiculous how bad my memory is. Like you and I will have a conversation and you'll use a word and then I'll respond to it and I won't remember the word that you used. It's like ... like I have a terrible memory. I should work on that. How do you fix your memory?
THERAPIST: Well I'm not really sure, there's a lot of reasons why people have a hard time remembering so.
CLIENT: Mm-hm. (sigh)
THERAPIST: But it seems like you go back to things that could be wrong with you.
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: I was thinking about the, you know incident, I don't know if it was an incident but our conversation about nannying and taking on this other family for a few weeks and it seems like that's the flipside. Like if someone provides a different perspective, right or wrong, it makes you very nervous. Like you're talking about feeling like you don't have confidence in your own ability to judge. But it's also hard to take in another perspective because it's almost like you feel the other person is telling you you're wrong.
CLIENT: Mm-hm. Yeah. I feel like I'm being told that I'm wrong a lot.
THERAPIST: Mm-hm.
(pause)
CLIENT: I guess ... I don't know that's why like I'm really interested in facts and like I really hold on to facts and I'll use them when I can. But a lot of times when it's just opinions and stuff like that I don't (pause) talk. I don't know. I just think that there's (pause) Yeah. I don't know. I'm really quick ... I know that somebody else has a better opinion or a better take on the scenario.
THERAPIST: Why?
CLIENT: Because other people are smarter than me. Like how it feels. I mean that's just how I've always felt.
(pause)
(00:33:53)
I just feel like I live in a world where everyone else is smarter.
THERAPIST: Mm.
CLIENT: At least the people I work for and my friends and certainly my husband.
THERAPIST: What makes them ... what makes you think they're smarter?
CLIENT: They're educated, they came from stable backgrounds and families who were also educated and they have a bigger vocabulary. They have abilities to approach situations from more than one perspective unlike myself.
THERAPIST: Like Chris?
CLIENT: Yeah. He does sometimes, sometimes.
THERAPIST: But in a sense what you feel makes people smarter is opportunities they were given.
CLIENT: Mm-hm. I mean part of it is just true. I mean like (pause) part of it is true. If all my friends took school seriously from kindergarten through twelfth grade and then went on to college and were ... you know have college degrees and are now in grad programs, part of them ... they are just going to be smarter than me.
(00:35:37)
And I have to ... that's just the reality of it. (pause) I try to over compensate with my ridiculous things, listening to like all sorts of educational podcasts and throwing out random facts.
THERAPIST: Yeah I'm sure maybe we're using the words differently. But I'm not sure education and intelligence are the same thing at all.
CLIENT: Logically I know that. Logically that makes sense but when (pause) there's a lot of times when I'm with a group of people and I know that they're all college educated or in grad work and I know there's some people that I'm maybe more intelligent than ... that wasn't even right. Maybe I'm a little, I don't know. But no matter what I'm always going to feel inferior and I'm always going to feel less than.
THERAPIST: No matter what?
CLIENT: Maybe not no matter what, but that part of it at least. Probably not no matter what. (pause) Like all I have to offer is baby knowledge, that's all I have. I know how to swaddle the hell out of a baby. I can burp your kid so well. Like that's all I have.
THERAPIST: The way you say that it sounds like degrading.
CLIENT: Because it is. My oldest friend still calls me a babysitter. She still calls me and says, "What time are done babysitting today?" It's like first of all, that's infuriating because I'm not a high school kid who comes over on Saturday night to watch the family. And you know what time I get done nannying? I get done at nanny at six o'clock every day. Have for the last three years and you know that. And it's just this like ... I know to most of my friends I'm just a babysitter but (pause) I'm also a babysitter who put her husband through three years of law school and he doesn't have a dime of loans for living expenses because I put him ... you know like I have this pride in other ways but then I hear my friends call me a babysitter and I want to die. Like it makes me feel like (pause) such a loser.
(pause)
(00:38:35)
And then because of that it's like you know so I have this ITF or this (pause) for this business in Concord that I ... I don't know. It's this business that other women have started in major cities and I just, you know I've seen that it could be successful in other cities and that most of the things that they offer I know about. And I could do and if I can't do them I'd feel like I could bring people in to offer services anyway. But I start talking about it to my friends and they, you know I can just see this look of like ... Wait so ... like this look of confusion and so I keep backing it up and saying like, "Well it's been successful in other cities and this one in like Miami, they've been around for seven years which shows, you know like." And I try to bring in other people's success in there or like you know what other ... but I can just see ... you know I just see them starting to poke holes in it and all of a sudden my confidence in my idea just deflates.
(00:40:03)
THERAPIST: Mm-hm.
CLIENT: And just like, "You'll take classed first, right?" It's like, "Well yeah." I mean obviously I'll need to take like a small business management course and things like that but like ... I'm not going to like, "No I'm not going to go get a degree." It's like, "But you'll go ... like so what will you be like?" Like all this like, like questioning like ... you know just making it very clear that (pause) ...
THERAPIST: Feeling like they like they doubt you?
CLIENT: Yeah. (Lightly crying) One of my friends, my friend Emma who is a nanny also and she's in a grad program for teaching, she's the only one who's ever been like, "Oh that's a great idea." And kind of like throw ideas back and forth with me and kind of not poke ... but like say things that are like more ... what's the word I want to use? (Sniffling) Like critical in a ...
THERAPIST: Constructive ...
CLIENT: Thank you. Constructive criticism. She'll have constructive criticism to offer and things like that. But she's kind of the only one that I've felt like that's ... (pause) I just, I don't know.
(00:41:30)
(pause)
It sucks because I feel like this is something that I'm really excited about and something where I really feel like I have the potential to do something that I'm really proud of. But I have to get over my fear of it first. My fear of what my friends are saying. That sounds so juvenile but (pause) I want to find a way to be realistic and to listen to what people have say because (pause) because you don't get places without blocking everybody out. But at the same time still being confident enough to go through with it. (pause) Oh. (pause) (Sniffling) I don't even know how we got there. That was a really long indirect route.
(pause)
(00:42:57)
My mom thinks it's a really good idea. (Laugh) Which is surprising because my mom isn't really supportive about everything. My mom thinks my job is a joke too. She calls it babysitting all the time. Drives me nuts.
THERAPIST: In the way you describe babysitting it sounds degrading.
CLIENT: I mean it is. It's like what your high school neighbor does you know what I mean? Like yeah I babysat in high school, I sure did. I got ten dollars an hour.
THERAPIST: They don't respect it as a career?
CLIENT: Right. And it's just like ... it makes it sound so like (pause) it's like I work along week. I put in a lot of hours at work and I'm exhausted by the time the day's over and it doesn't end then. Like I'm still fielding work e-mails at home. You're not the only one ... like they're stupid. They're like, "Will you research ballet classes?" But I'm still doing work at home just like you are. I'm still, you know thinking about the day ahead and doctor's appointments and silly things for the girls and things like that. It's like ... it's just as much a job as I feel like anybody else's job is.
THERAPIST: Mm-hm.
(00:44:19)
CLIENT: But it's really, you know?
THERAPIST: Well when people makes these comments that feeds into an insecurity.
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: We're going to need stop for today.
CLIENT: Okay.
THERAPIST: And I'll send you that modified bill, sorry I haven't yet.
CLIENT: Okay. Did you get the check on Friday?
THERAPIST: I haven't checked my mail today, so.
CLIENT: Okay. Okay.
THERAPIST: I'm sure it's there.
CLIENT: Okay, cool.
THERAPIST: Okay. Take care; I'll see you Wednesday.
CLIENT: Yes.
THERAPIST: Okay great. Bye, bye.
CLIENT: Bye.
END TRANSCRIPT
