<font size="4"><b>Chapter 2: A Child at the Window</b></font>

"Who are you? Where are you going? What does it feel like to wear
red shoes? Are you somebody's uncle? Does blue look like blue to you,
or is it green? How does it feel to sit inside that big car right next to
the window? Can't you find a place for me? If you knew how much I
want to love you, you'd let me come too. I wish Beth would get scarlet
fever and die." Such were the thoughts that crowded in on my child
mind as in solitude I gazed through my grandmother's parlor window
at the world that was passing by. And then I would silently turn away
from the view outside and go about my customary ways in Grandma's
big empty house.


Two-year-old Beth was ordinarily a strong, healthy child. Nothing
ever bothered her. She slept long hours, ate heartily and showed no
signs of nervousness. Truly she was Mama's "answer to prayer." But
Mama had just notified Grandma that Beth was very sick with a high
fever. Maybe she wasn't so strong. I had always been considered a
nervous and weak child. A premature infant, everyone had despaired
of my life. But for some reason I had had tenacity to pull through and
I would inwardly defend myself at any cost.


Beth and Carl, who was between my sister and me in age, lived "up
home" with Mama, whereas I had been living with Grandma and Aunt
Sue since the age of eighteen months. It did not seem strange to me that
I was living apart from my brother and sister, but I did not like things as
they were. Later years slowly revealed reasons for my particular home
situation.


My maternal grandparents were from more or less aristocratic families
in the South, and my father's people were a business type of the Middle
West. On both sides they were lovers of education and were progressive
and faithful to their religious beliefs  certain members, of course,
more so than others. My mother and father took a full seminary course
for the ministry and were in active work for a while. However, my
father displayed signs of severe mental disturbance, so his parents wished
him to leave the ministry and go into business with them.


During the first year of life I had much trouble with indigestion and
was quite sensitive to noises of all kinds. Because I was unable to walk
when Carl was born, even though eighteen months old, and because of
Papa's mental disturbance, my maternal grandmother insisted that I be
brought to live with her and Aunt Sue. Though my parents came to

[p. <i>10</i>]

Grandma was in her early sixties when I first began living with her.
In her earlier and better years she had been well liked by all and had a
keen sense of humor. She had married three times  outliving two
husbands. Her first husband was a doctor who died from scarlet fever
that came from one of his patients. The second husband was a colonel.
The third was a polished and very pleasant business man whose personality
was of the type that could be used as a tool by other people. Some
of his ventures did not go well because he was unaware that he was
being used.


Having come from a more or less aristocratic family, Grandma was
a proud woman. Her third husband left because he could not provide
her with all that could make her happy. He had big ideas of what he
wanted to do and was very kind hearted, but could not through ordinary
living make things come out right. So he went away, trying to invest
here and there, hoping to come back some day with a lot of money and
make his whole family happy. However, his schemes did not work out,
and thus he did not return during her lifetime. This naturally subdued
and depressed Grandma's spirit. She used to refer to him in a rather
sneering fashion as the "New York Gentleman" who might step up on
the front porch any day. I feared that he might come sometime and
shoot at her through the parlor window.


Grandma did not understand the real needs of a child  the necessity
of being and looking like others and of having childhood companions.
Her subtle humor and teasing I took as sarcasm, and thus often misinterpreted
her, much to my own misfortune.


Aunt Sue was almost over-zealous in her devotion to me. She was
needed in the home to help take care of Grandma, but had never been
able to face life on her own and possibly marry. Also Grandma felt
that, if unmarried, one should be a lady and not work outside the home.
Although Aunt Sue was sincere in her devotion to me, she, too, did not
know the needs of a wholesome life.


In this environment I grew up in a very old-fashioned manner and
really grew up alone. Not once in the twelve years I lived there did
I have any school friends come to play or visit. I knew not what it was
to play intimately with other children my own age. Though I was with
my brother and sister more or less frequently during those early years,
for Mother and they made two or three visits a week for a few hours at
a time, it was not like living with them.


My contact with Mother although slight and occasional made a

[p. <i>11</i>]

Mother was an exceedingly good manager of finances, and everything
was done to perfection. Never did she do anything in half-hearted
fashion. She provided us with all the things of life that were possible
according to her standards, especially music. She was kind-hearted and
did much for neighbors, but as her husband was in the hospital, she did
not have strong social life other than church when it came to parties
and social gatherings. She had very little association with other mothers
and was not aware of the changing times. She was firmly convinced that
her own methods and ways of doing things were right.


When Beth was four years old, she came to live with Grandma, too,
until Grandma's death four years later. At first I cared very little for
her. Then I developed a deep attachment to her that was so great that it
was almost as if she were an idol. A certain tie seemed to bring us together.


One day we went to "visit" Mother, and, as she had company, we were
told not to stay around for a while. I knew Mother was going to talk
about things we weren't supposed to hear. Also I resented the fact that
I couldn't enjoy the company. So little company came that when someone
did I felt a deep affection for and interest in them. No one ever
came just to see me. While sitting on the back lawn, Beth asked me
whom I liked best, Mother or Aunt Sue. We both agreed we liked Aunt
Sue best, for she was not cross. Aunt Sue was much more easy going and
would allow us freedom that Mother never did. When we were back at
Grandma's again, I made the remark that when I would be eighteen I
would run away and nobody could boss me or tell me what to do.


Though I developed a closeness to Beth, there was no childhood liking
or sympathy between Carl and me. When his life and mine were thrown
together when I was fourteen, my attitude toward him became still
more negative until I could hardly stand him. Through those early
years Carl and Beth were very congenial. They got into ordinary quarrels,
but always made up. They were so much alike in temperament that
Mother often called them "the twins." Neither wished to be the other's
"twin." They were more healthy, more robust and more easygoing
than I.


I felt Beth was Mother's favorite because of her healthiness. As a
baby I had habits that Mother didn't like, and my aunt reminded me of
that fact. This always gave me the sensation that I was not as clean as my
brother and sister, for I had continued those early habits. But I did have

[p. <i>12</i>]

At school milk was given during the morning to all undernourished
and underweight children. How I hated that! It tasted awful, and it
was the sign of gross inferiority to have to trot over to another building
to get milk every day. I went but refused to drink, and after vain attempts
to have me partake, the teacher finally had to inform my mother
that she was wasting perfectly good money.


The very sight of a nurse petrified me, and especially so one day when
I was in second grade and the school nurse made her rounds. Her duty
was to weigh and measure children, take their temperatures and test
their vision. I always managed to have the letters on the chart memorized
so that, of course, there was no "defect" in my eyes. But my fear
often caused me to get very warm, so that it seemed I had a fever. The
children were in a line, several being ahead of me. When it came my
turn and the nurse took my temperature, she said that she thought quite
likely I was getting the measles, to which I politely replied that I had
already had measles. But she said there were several kinds  anyhow I
had better sit on a chair in the office while she finished with the other
children, and then she would talk to me. While I was waiting, she handed
me some pamphlets to while away the moments. And what could they
be but pictures of the great help milk was for children  how it made
strong healthy bodies  that dreadful stuff! Really I liked milk, but to
have people insinuate that I was a weakling was more than I could stand.
Time passed very slowly, and finally the nurse came to me and told me
about the various kinds of measles. I told her that I knew I wasn't sick,
but that was to no avail, for she said I must stay home for about three
days to see if anything developed. And also I was to take some of those
pamphlets to my mother. Arguing with her did no good, so tearfully I
started on my way. When I was half way home, I tore up all the pamphlets
and threw them in the street. I can still remember almost the
exact spot where I threw them. At least that was one way in which I
could win out. The next afternoon the nurse came to call, and, of course,
I was not sick at all, so she gave me permission to return to school the
following day. All that fuss for nothing! From my earliest memory I
have wanted to get even with people and have hated authority of any
kind. I was suspicious and very resentful even though I seemed docile.


Some incidents relating to Grandma stand out in my mind as having
considerable significance in my development and illness. She hated red
hair, and, though my hair wasn't red, when I stood out in the sun it

[p. <i>13</i>]

But the thing that hurt most was when she would call me by my father's
name. I have only two or three memories of my father before he
was permanently hospitalized. So my understanding of him and feeling
toward him grew out of the home atmosphere as members of the family
would talk about him. I knew there was something wrong with Papa,
but I had never been told just what it was. From Grandma's attitude
I gathered that it was very bad, almost as bad as being a criminal. My
own nervous condition and the fact that she called me by his name made
me feel that I must be the very image of Papa. So I felt complete rejection.


The children at school asked me what my father did. Not knowing
exactly how to answer, and yet wanting also to tell the truth, I said that
he worked in a laundry. Actually at that time he was helping in the
laundry at the mental hospital. I didn't want to tell the girls that my father
was crazy. When I went home and told Grandma about this, she
made all kinds of fun of me. It was beneath her to have anyone related
to her working in a laundry.


It means a lot to be able to say, "My daddy can fix this" or "My daddy
can do that." All pride and all possible affection for my father was completely
knocked out of me. There was absolutely nothing to cling to.
He was crazy and no good. And in my own very tender years I had
strong premonitions of my own future mental break. To have Grandma
corroborate my own inner fears when she called me by my father's name
was more than I could take. I was always afraid to say anything about
such remarks  just sitting back and calmly taking them, although I
was really burning up inside. But one day I did manage to get enough
courage to tell Mother when she was visiting that Grandma called me by
Papa's name and that I didn't like it. She told Grandma not to do that
and then went on "up home" with Carl and Beth. After Mother had
gone, Grandma turned on me with great vehemence and scolded me for
having said anything, for it hurt her to think I had told on her.


As I was thin, my "Adam's apple" was very prominent, so she teased
me by telling me I either had or would get a goiter. That really frightened
me, and every day or so for many years I would look in the mirror
to see how my "goiter" was progressing. When I was ten, an uncle who
had had what I thought was kidney trouble died, and I was quite sure I
would get it, too, someday. I was so nervous and had to keep going to
the bathroom. Excretory functions of all types always seemed terrible,
and I thought that going to the toilet was the worst thing to have to
do  in fact unpardonable. So sensitive was I about this matter that

[p. <i>14</i>]

One rainy day when I was in first grade, a boy by the name of O'Leary
put up my umbrella and walked home from school with me. He stood
to talk at the front steps. When I went in the house, Grandma asked me
who he was and I told her. "O'Leary, huh! His grandmother's cow
kicked over the lamp that started the Chicago fire. Don't let me see you
with him again."


All these various little things caused me to hate Grandma. Once she
threw my ball down in the dark basement in the evening, and just before
we said our evening prayers in family circle, I said, "Grandma, I hate
you," as loud as possible. That hurt her keenly, for it was the only time
I had actually told her what I thought of her.


My childhood was not altogether unpleasant. Until I entered the seventh
grade I was quite content. Jacks, dolls, buggies, games, balls, and
the like, were all part of my experiences, and I enjoyed playing with
the children at school in recess periods and after school for a while even
though I couldn't invite them to come home. There wasn't a strong
distinction between boys and girls in my thinking. My grades were
good, with arithmetic being my stronghold and reading my weak subject.
Oral reading was good because I could pronounce big words with
ease and I enjoyed phonics, and the like. But when it came to silent
reading, often instead of reading I would just sit and look at the book,
dreaming about all kinds of problems. As the years went by my most
severe compulsive habits took place when I was trying to read and I
became all tied up in knots.


My interests were varied, for I enjoyed drawing, sewing, putting on
"shows," making costumes, playing the piano, and bossing when I had
a chance. I enjoyed tormenting and tantalizing Carl and Beth, though
it was done in underhanded fashion. There were occasional lies and
stolen articles, but these were very few in number for my conscience
would not let me forget even one misdemeanor. Because it did not occur
to me that other children did naughty things, my own sinfulness
lay like a great burden upon my mind. The children in school and Sunday
School seemed like darling cherubs, and I was the only one who
could do wrong things.


I was very active and, even though at times unhappy, I kept busy. I
always had big plans and was constantly looking into the future of
what I was going to do and be someday. Although I had little intimate
association with people, I loved all humanity and yearned for association
in a friendly sort of way. Even before the age of ten my feelings and
desires were overwhelming.

[p. <i>15</i>]

As I saw people passing by going to work and coming home, I looked
at them with awe and wonder, and tried to picture where they were
going and how they felt. The sight of families going by in autos always
stirred up jealousy, for I wondered how it felt to be a child whose father
came home every night and played with him and took the whole family
riding.

