<font size="5"><b>Part Two</b></font>
[p. <i>[137]</i>]
[p. <i>139</i>]

For me, drinking was a cure for an illness. Then it became
an illness that needed a cure. By the time I was admitted
into hospital, my life was a Catch 22. If I stopped drinking
then the depression was unbearable. If I drank then the
drinking was unbearable. I was boxed into a corner. There
was nowhere left to go.


At best, depression is a gift, a chance to see life down-side-up.
At worst, it's a curse, an illness that drains life of
all colour and wonder. I was terrified of facing it head-on
without my bag of tricks. I knew that I would run out of
ammunition eventually. I knew my weapons would be
taken away. I just didn't know when.


It was time to live or die. I had no other choices, no
other escape routes. I had used up all of my drinking
lives. All the self-medication formulas were of no use
to me now. I knew where I had to go. I knew which
path I had to follow. I knew I had to take a deep
breath and start over. And I wanted to live. I knew
this much.


When I got out of hospital, my stomach stopped hurting
immediately. I went to see my doctor, told him the truth

[p. <i>140</i>]

Stop.


It wasn't like that at all.


I'm lying again. This time to you.


Dead air clung to both of our phones.


‘A stomach ulcer?’


The Publisher, my boss, didn't believe me. I could hear it
in his voice.


‘Yes. A stomach ulcer.’


Silence. Two men breathing down telephone lines.


‘If you don't come back soon we're going to have to rethink
your position.’

[p. <i>141</i>]

<i>What a dream</i>.


‘I know.’


I went to see my doctor for a check-up. He recommended
that I see an alcohol counsellor. I told him I didn't want to.
I was high on the arrogance of my denial. My addiction
had made a martyr of me. My distress had become a
crown of thorns. I didn't want to lose my hair-shirt, my
identity. I was stubborn and sick. My mouth was defiant
and clever. The trees were skeletons. The air was a grey
whisper. Forever: a big word, bigger than me.


The attacks came once an hour, every hour, regardless of
where I was or what I was doing. Bright, electric, demented.
They'd been so bad since I left hospital that I'd gone
back to see my doctor twice since my first check-up. I was
always there. We were getting to be good friends. As
usual, I gave him an elaborate roll-call of symptoms.


Breathlessness


Dizziness


A sensation that the floor was moving beneath me


Blurred vision


A racing pulse


Heart palpitations


Rubbery legs

[p. <i>142</i>]

Nausea


Trembling hands


My stomach turned to jelly


A ringing in my ears


Feeling like I'd drunk a litre of espresso


Temporary loss of hearing


Feeling like I was going to blackout


A conviction that I was going to die


I talked, he typed. I watched my words fill his computer
screen.


‘You're having panic attacks,’ he concluded. ‘This means
your central nervous system is overloaded right now.’


He prescribed a drug — a beta blocker — called propranolol.
He said it would slow my heart down and stop the
attacks. He said other things too but he didn't tell me it
was a highly addictive drug.


When I got home, I popped a pink pill out of a blister
pack, washed it down with water and waited. An hour
after I took it, the humming was mute again, my heartbeat
slow and lazy. I lay on the floor, my cheek pressed against
the carpet, the panic attacks already a thing of the past, my
heart drunk on their absence. Years later, I would see the
insanity of this. One drug for another. A passing of the
chemical baton. Warm and familiar. All creases rolled out.


When he sighed, it was a sigh of pure want, need, joy. I
knew that sigh. I'd ridden it all the way to hell.

[p. <i>143</i>]

‘Ummm,’ Dennis groaned.


He shook the ice cubes in his glass.


‘Hear that?’


I heard it clearer than I heard my own heartbeat.


It was just after noon. I'd been out of hospital for a
week.


‘Gin and tonic,’ he said. ‘A delicious gin and tonic.’


I was already on his end of the phone, sipping his drink,
him transported to my end of the phone, pale and sick,
wanting that drink, that tornado of ice cubes, that sigh,
like nothing on earth.


For two months, my stomach in tatters. The pain woke
me early each morning. Gnaw. Gnaw. My digestive
tracts could only handle the blandest of foods. Plain
pieces of toast. Omelettes. Carrots. Mashed potato.
Yoghurt. Soup. If I tried to eat anything fatty or greasy
— like a strip of bacon — I'd get dizzy and nauseous and
have to lie down, the room spinning the way it used to
when I was drunk out of my mind. So thin. Bones
jutting through my skin. When I tried to stop drinking
in May, I weighed 13 stone 11 lbs. When I left hospital,
I weighed dead on 11 stone. Reminds me of coming
home after my first term at university, my weight down
to 9 stone 10lbs. The shock on my parents' faces, my
friends' faces, my doctor's face.

[p. <i>144</i>]

‘Shall we fix a weekly appointment then? Every Saturday
for an hour at ten am?’


Angie had the kind of eyes that stare straight through
you and read all your secrets. When I called her, I was
desperate.


‘Although I'm a counsellor and psychotherapist,’ she
told me when we first spoke, ‘my specialist field is hypnotherapy.’


She explained how hypnosis could be used to challenge
and reconfigure deep rooted personality issues and traits. I
liked the idea of having her turn me into someone else, so I
arranged to see her for a trial consultation. What was £40
a session after all the thousands of pounds I'd spent on
trying to escape myself? And how amazing if each £40 I
spent changed a part of me.


‘That sounds good,’ I said. ‘Every Saturday. Ten am.’


When she hypnotised me, it was magical. I didn't know
much about hypnosis and I wasn't expecting it to be so
powerful. It was like dreaming while awake. There was a
mystical weightlessness too, like my body and soul were
separated, floating in thin air, tingling, crackling with
static, my ears buzzing, my throat numb and slack.


‘We need to put you back together again,’ she said, at
the end of our first session. ‘Build your confidence, your
ego, your self awareness, your identity, your self-esteem.
All of these things are non-existent.’


She ‘got’ me as quickly as Veronica. She was the safety
net that broke my fall. She saved my life and then she
changed it. She digested the story of my life, taking notes,
nodding, shuffling the pieces of the jigsaw puzzle until

[p. <i>145</i>]

‘That's not a good thing to get used to,’ she said, when I
told her about the propranolol. ‘You need to learn to deal
with life without any chemical helpers.’


‘I feel so much better on them though.’


She was too sharp for my deviousness.


‘Of course you do,’ she said, outsmarting my attempt to
outsmart her. ‘Of course you do.’


When I went back to work, it was like walking into someone
else's life. I didn't tell anyone — not even co-workers I was
sort of friends with — what happened. I recycled the tired ‘it
was a stomach ulcer’ speech until the lies made my eyeballs
sting. People missed me, the ‘me’ who went missing. There
were invitations to go to the pub at lunch time, after work,
on Friday nights. I became an expert at making up excuses.
I've got errands to run. I have to go to the post office. I'm
meeting a friend. When I went out to lunch with clients —
mostly work-hard, party-hard media buyers at ad agencies
— I said I was taking antibiotics when they mocked me for
ordering a bottle of mineral water. The days crawled by in a
blizzard of paperwork and then it was dark again and I was
in my car, driving home.


‘If the craving is worst between five pm and seven pm then
you need to create a distraction to break the pattern.’

[p. <i>146</i>]

Angie and I began each appointment by talking over the
previous week's events, moods, emotions. She encouraged
me to write in my journal as soon as I got into bed at the
end of each day.


‘Write about feelings. I want you to search deep inside
yourself and pluck out only the most intense feelings.
That's all that matters. The more you write, the more
we'll have to work with.’


I found myself writing a lot about the habit of drinking,
the routine, how I craved a drink every day at 5.30 pm like
clockwork, how I was lost without the structure of addiction.
We came up with a solution: dupe the craving by
feeding it a ‘drink’. I started drinking a hot mug of
Ovaltine after dinner. No corkscrews, no glasses, no
labels. Just simple things: the boiling of the kettle, the
emptying of the sachet of Ovaltine into a mug, the pouring
of the boiling water, the stirring of the drink with a little
spoon, the smile as I took the first sip.


‘What about something healthy? Like a herbal tea?’


I'd told Angie that the novelty of my daily Ovaltine had
worn off. A few days later — after mentioning this at home
— my parents bought me some Japanese green tea, a
Japanese tea pot and some little cups.


‘Great,’ Angie said, at our next session, when I told her
that the green tea lifted my spirits and put me in a good
mood. ‘This is the way forward. Keep working on yourself
and new routines and habits will form. Ones that will
change your life rather than destroy it.’


But then, as always, one pot of green tea stopped giving
me the same kick, the same high, so I started to drink two
pots a night instead and the high came back, playful and
seductive.

[p. <i>147</i>]

It was freezing cold in the car park. I locked the car
door and checked the lights were off. Now that I was
sober, I noticed things like that. Small details surfaced in
everything I did. I cared if I was shaving with a clean
razor or if I had an umbrella with me on an overcast
morning. Warm lights beckoned from inside the sports
centre. I bought my ticket and hurried into the changing
rooms. Other men of different ages and walks of life
were busy drying off or getting into their swimming
trunks. The anonymity was bliss. Nobody knew I was a
recovering alcoholic. Nobody knew how out of control
my life had been. Nobody knew I was trying to repair a
body that had been depleted and annihilated by drinking.
For a brief hour or two, I didn't feel ostracised from
everything and everywhere. I'd leap into the pool, always
hopeful that the icy water would shake some sense
into me and swim lengths, counting one after the other
after the other. After all those years of chaos, I wanted
to put as much order into my new life as possible. After
twenty lengths, the craving subsided and a calmness
flooded my body. By the time I was back outside,
crossing the car park, my breathing slower and more
regular, what would earlier have been that all too
familiar noise between my ears was now little more
than a faraway whisper. My shoulders and arms would
ache and I'd drive home along dark, deserted foggy
back roads with the car stereo blasting.

[p. <i>148</i>]

When Laura found out from Mike that I'd been in
hospital, she called and invited me to a party that she
and her housemates were throwing.


‘Why don't you bring your IV drip,’ she said, mocking
what I had just told her about my four days in hospital.
‘It'll be the highlight of the party, watching you dance with
it!’


Angie — homing in on Laura's negative influence as
perceptively as Veronica before her — was frustrated with
me.


‘Why didn't you just hang up on her when she said this?’


<i>Because no one calls any more</i>.


‘I don't know.’


<i>I'm powerless when it comes to Laura</i>.


‘And are you going to this party?’


<i>I can't remember the last time I went out at night</i>.


‘Yes.’


So, I decided to make my first nocturnal, sober, social
venture out into the world at Laura's party. The deathwish
was yet to be spring cleaned out of my bones ...


I picked Mike up and we drove down to South London in
the rain. Mike wasn't really in the mood to hear about my
new-found sobriety. He got into the car with a bag of beer
and popped a can before he even put his seatbelt on. I still
remember how good that beer smelled.


‘Hi,’ she said, when we arrived, a cigarette in one hand
and a bottle of beer in the other.


‘God, you've lost so much weight.’

[p. <i>149</i>]

She was looking me up and down.


‘Oh I know,’ I replied. ‘I used the I-almost-died-in-hospital
diet. It's very effective.’


She laughed and ushered us in.


The party was smoky and crowded. The music was deafening.
Everyone was drunk or stoned. So many red eyes. I
tried to talk to Laura but we kept getting interrupted by
her friends, the same people who kept offering me glasses
of wine and joints and cigarettes. Laura came over to talk
to me again. She was high and drunk. She took my hand
and dragged me to her bedroom. She closed the door and
locked it. The danger was turning us on. I leaned forward
to kiss her. She drew back.


‘That was awkward.’


‘I'm sorry,’ she said. ‘It's just ... a bad idea.’


She stank of beer and cigarettes.


‘Why? I know you want me as much as I want you.’


‘It's more complicated than that and you know it. I
don't want to keep sleeping with you and then not talking
for ages. It's too painful.’


Someone knocked on the door and called her name.


‘I'm coming,’ she yelled back.


She got up and left, without saying a word.


Later, when Mike and I were trying to leave, she came out of
the kitchen, threw her arms around me and kissed me. I was
angry with her but her lips were soft and her hips found my
hands all too easily. Everything was familiar and then, just
as the other people, the party, our history started to fade, she
broke from me and pushed off into the party.


‘Come on,’ I said to Mike. ‘Let's get out of here.’

[p. <i>150</i>]

‘I want you to imagine yourself walking around a huge white
house. Everything is white. The walls. The floors. The
furniture. The curtains. This is a safe place, a peaceful place.’


There was no reality here. I was somewhere else. Angie's
voice was far away. We spent a long time getting me this
far into a trance state. Lots of deep breathing. Elements of
the daily self-hypnosis exercises that Angie had taught me
to do after I finished writing in my journal at bed-time.


‘Now imagine yourself walking down a long white
corridor. Look for a white door. Open it and enter the
room. It's a big room. A bed. Curtains flowing in a
relaxing breeze. Close the door behind you. Breathe nice
and slowly. You feel a wonderful sense of relaxation.
Nothing can hurt you. You are protected.’


There was silence for a while. A pause. I might have
fallen asleep if I hadn't been aware that I was about to fall
asleep. What's it like to get hypnotised? It's like watching
your body sleep. It's being awake in your subconscious
but asleep in your conscious. It's white light and the next
world. Sleep without sleep. Being both here and there.


‘Now,’ she said, her voice close and hushed. ‘I want you to
press the middle finger and thumb on each hand together.
Whenever you feel scared or uncomfortable or threatened in
your everyday life, I want you to press your fingers and
thumbs together and you'll remember the white house, the
white room, the serenity, the amazing peace of mind.’


There was another lengthy pause. Pure happiness revolved
around my head. I was suspended. Relaxed. Almost
not breathing. My body had left me for a while. I was
all soul, spirit.

[p. <i>151</i>]

‘I'm going to count from one up to ten and then I want
you to wake up in your own time.’


The numbers chimed inside my sleepy brain and then I
opened my eyes and Angie was sitting on the black sofa
opposite, smiling, welcoming me back to the world.


I paused at the end of the swimming pool. My lungs
heaved as I tried to catch my breath. Fifty lengths. An hour
in the water and I still felt like I was going to explode. I
closed my eyes and let go of the pool-side. I dived down,
down, down until I hit the bottom of the pool. I curled into
a ball and held still. Everything was black. There was no
noise. Trapped fifteen feet beneath water level I knew I
was safe. There were no pubs or wine bars or cocktail bars
or restaurants or off-licences or supermarkets or advertisements
for Jack Daniels or inviting iced bottles of
Budweiser or strangers thrusting drinks at me. My lungs
swelled up. I pushed hard against the floor and rose
upwards. I burst out of the water, gasping for air. I held
the pool-side for maybe two or three seconds and then
kicked off. Fifty-one, fifty-two, fifty-three, fifty-four, fifty-five ...
until I was too tired to feel anything.


I was the only sober person at the company Christmas
party. I didn't throw any jugs of cream this time. I barely
said a word all night. I must have been offered a hundred

[p. <i>152</i>]

There was no snow that Christmas. There were no miracles
either. I didn't wake up on Christmas Day suddenly able to
drink again. My stomach started hurting again. I would
learn in time, after seeing three different specialists, that this
was psychosomatic. It hurt when I hurt. The craving was so
bad. I didn't know what to do with myself. I took my pink
pills. The Christmas tree was big and sad. The presents
beneath it triggered a slew of childhood memories. Tying
tinsel around my sister's head. She and I making brightly
coloured paper chains. Decorating the tree. Hanging the
lights. The turkey. The cranberry sauce. Our mother reading
<i>Rudolph the Red Nosed Reindeer</i> to us at bed-time. The
whole family gathered on Christmas Day. Everyone still
young. The whole family gathered on Christmas Day.

[p. <i>153</i>]

I spent New Year's Eve 1994 watching Mike and Tina get
drunk at a pub in London. They were still together. Every
so often Mike shot a bourbon with his beer — something I
‘taught’ him to do. By the time they were slurring their
words, they wanted me to dance with them. I squirmed as
they tugged at my jacket. Sober, I was acutely self-conscious.
I wasn't about to go out on any dance floor. When
we were all sitting down again, their little splash of fun cut
short, Mike told me I was being a killjoy. I didn't argue.
My hands were empty. No cigarette, no glass. Minutes
after midnight, I feigned exhaustion and left them in the
pub, grinning like idiots. I drove home alone, fresh air
blowing in through the windows, a New Year stretched
out ahead of me like a frozen yawn.


Early in 1995, I went back to the hospital for a routine
follow-up appointment. The specialist examined my stomach,
checked my weight, measured my blood pressure,
listened to my heart, sent me for blood tests. When the
physical exam was done, she sat me down and asked me
how I was.


‘You were in quite a mess when you were admitted into
hospital weren't you?’


I stared at my shoes. They needed a good polish.


‘I know.’


I felt embarrassed. Maybe even a little judged.


‘You seem to be doing much better.’

[p. <i>154</i>]

I figured that she was about thirty. I wondered if I'd still
be ‘doing much better’ when I was thirty.


‘Well, I've quit drinking.’


The words rushed out of my mouth.


‘Good for you,’ she said. ‘I think that's really for the
best. I don't think you could have carried on the way you
were going.’


She gave me a nice smile. It said more than a hundred
words ever could.


‘Are you on any medication?’


I told her about the propranolol.


‘Try not to stay on that for too long, it's bad for your
body.’


I paid no attention. Quitting drinking was one thing,
but quitting everything ... I wasn't ready for that.


‘Otherwise,’ she said, getting up and opening the door.
‘Keep up the good work with the no drinking.’


‘Thank you,’ I said and meant it.


‘You have no idea how far you've come. When you first
came to see me you couldn't hold eye contact, you were
strung out beyond belief, your hands were shaky, you
were as pale as a ghost and your conversation was littered
with all the negatives — can't, don't, couldn't, wouldn't.’


Angie's house was warm as always. Some Saturdays, I
wanted to stay there forever.


‘I suppose so,’ I said. ‘But things just seem so dull.
Nothing's changing fast enough. I feel like I'm banging my
head against a brick wall. My job's boring. My social life

[p. <i>155</i>]

She was so great when I got like that. She didn't rise to
the bait of my bad moods. She just listened and sat there,
reflecting back how despondent I was. Only when I was
done, when everything was dripping down the walls of her
lounge, did she cross the line and take me by the hand.


‘It's going to take time. There are so many big things
you need to do. Move out of your parents' home. Discover
what it is you want to do with your life. Quit your job.
Stop trying to medicate your moods. Find new friends.
Break from Laura.’


She had a talent for reducing my chaos to a handful of
concrete, clear sentences. Another time, she closed down a
long, morbid, anxiety-stricken rant about the futility of
life in the face of the inevitability of death by saying, ‘Nick.
You're not sixteen any more. This is something that bugs a
sixteen-year-old, not someone who is twenty-four.’


Saturday nights were the worst. They just dragged and
dragged. I knew that if I still drank then I'd have been out
with the old gang: Dennis, Paul, Mike. Laughing, being
stupid, having fun. Instead I was staying in with my
parents or going to see films on my own, hiding in queues,
sandwiched between couples and friends and families,
praying that no one pulled the ‘he's on his own’ pity face.
I just wanted the anonymity of a dark cinema. Once
inside, I'd sink into a seat and lose myself in the film.

[p. <i>156</i>]

The Publisher burst out of his office with a magnum bottle
of champagne.


‘Everybody!’ he shouted. ‘Time to celebrate. We just
floated the company on the stock market.’


His secretary stood smiling in front of several boxes of
champagne flutes. When all fifty or so of us had flocked
around him, he fixed his stare on me.


‘Nick,’ he called out. ‘Could you open this bottle
please?’


It was one of those make-or-break tests. Either I told him I
didn't want to do it or I played it straight down the line.


‘Of course,’ I said and took the magnum from his hands.


I hadn't opened a bottle in five months. The cork hit the
ceiling and then came the foam. I missed that excitable
foam, we had once got along so well.


‘Everybody. Take a glass,’ barked the Publisher as he
handed them out.


The ad manager who had turned super sleuth ever since
I told him I'd been to see <i>When a Man Loves a Woman</i>
waved his just-poured flute of champagne under my nose,
hoping for further clues.

[p. <i>157</i>]

‘Drink up Nick,’ he said loud enough for everyone to
hear, the glass butting against my chin.


‘Get lost,’ I said and shoved the glass away.


He was laughing. No one else was.


It was a long Sunday. I paced up and down my bedroom.
The mirrors on the wardrobe at one end. Windows at the
other. I sat down with a book. Read a few pages: couldn't
relate to what I was reading. Threw the book down.
Picked up my guitar. It was out of tune. I spent half an
hour hunched over it, trying to get it in tune. The strings
weren't interested. I gave up, put a record on. A song came
blaring out of the speakers. A song I used to listen to
before I went out drinking. I skipped to the next track. A
sad song. Too sad. I decided to watch a video but I
couldn't decide which one. I started skimming through
my collection: <i>Frances. Taxi Driver. Bad Lieutenant.
Betty Blue. Last Tango in Paris. Repulsion. Lilith. A
Woman Under the Influence</i>. Forget it. I went over to
the windows, stared through the glass. Birds hopped
pathetically outside my bedroom window, their legs sometimes
giving out on them as they looked for worms in the
frosty grass. The window pane steamed up. I lay down on
my bed. I wasn't tired. No hope of sleeping the day away. I
thought of going out driving but there was nowhere I
wanted to go. I decided that I didn't like the co-ordinates
of my bed. I'd recently had a hunch that the bed was facing
the wrong way. So I re-shuffled the furniture for the next
two hours. Moved the bed here. The desk there. The chair

[p. <i>158</i>]

Our work was done. I knew it. Angie knew it. We were
going around in circles. Six months sober. Stronger.
Healthier. My doctor had taken me off all the stomach
medication. Only the propranolol was left. I told Angie
that it felt like phase one of my recovery was complete. She
agreed. It was hard to stop seeing her but it was time.
There was nothing more she could do for me.


After her party in December, Laura and I saw a lot of
each other. We went out for dinner, for drinks, to see
films. The mutual attraction, like the could-we-get-back-together
topic, was off-limits. It wasn't that we weren't
attracted to each other any more, it was just that sleeping
together hurt too much. There was too much baggage.
And so we gave up on getting back together and tried
fooling ourselves into thinking that we could just be
friends. But the love thing, the sex thing was always
there, playing gooseberry. She drank whenever we went

[p. <i>159</i>]

There couldn't have been more than twenty-five of us at
most. We sat in rickety chairs around a marked table in a
wooden hut that snuggled under the wing of an old
church. The 12 Steps hung from the ceiling on a white
banner. We sat sipping mugs of tea and coffee.

[p. <i>160</i>]

1 We admitted we were powerless over alcohol — that
our lives had become unmanageable.


2 Came to believe that a Power greater than ourselves
could restore us to sanity.


3 Made a decision to turn our will and lives over to
the care of God <i>as we understand Him</i>.


4 Made a searching and fearless moral inventory.


5 Admitted to God, to ourselves, and to another human
being the exact nature of our wrongs.


6 Were entirely ready to have God remove all these
defects of character.


7 Humbly asked Him to remove our shortcomings.


8 Made a list of all persons we had harmed and
became willing to make amends to them all.


9 Made direct amends to such people wherever possible.


10 Continued to take personal inventory and when we
were wrong promptly admitted it.


11 Sought through prayer and meditation to improve
our conscious contact with God as <i>we understood
Him</i>, praying only for the knowledge of His will for
us and the power to carry that out.


12 Having had a spiritual awakening as the result of these
steps, we tried to carry this message to alcoholics, and
to practise these principles in all our affairs.


Going to AA was like going to school. We were all there
because we had to be there. We were getting educated too,
just like we were children, teenagers, again, in the land of
before — before being the first time we got drunk. The 12-Step
Program was a kind of syllabus for those of us who
thought life was only bearable if we had a glass of something

[p. <i>161</i>]

My first AA meeting was a surprise, a revelation, a
mystery. The 12 Steps were algebra to me. I saw the word
‘God’ and zoned out. I opened my mouth and found
myself saying, My name is Nick and I'm an alcoholic.
Almost immediately, I wondered if I agreed with what I
had said. I had had only the vaguest of plans before I went
to the meeting: to hide in a dark corner and keep my
mouth shut. The decision to go had happened overnight. I
was going out of my mind one Sunday afternoon when my
parents suggested I call AA and go to a meeting. Two days
later I was telling a room full of strangers that I was an
alcoholic. I'd had no intention of making such a grandiose
confession. It came as a shock. I spent the rest of the
meeting trying to stifle a panic attack that was fighting to
break through the smog of my propranolol dependence.


It was strange to be in a room with all those other
people who had stopped drinking. We were a secret
society, a private club. The entrance fee: sobriety. We
had all chosen to be there. We all had one thing in
common. We were all in varying moods. Not everybody
would leave the meeting elated. Not everybody would
leave the meeting with an empty heart. I left my first
meeting feeling something in between. When a group
prayer was recited <i>en masse</i> — ‘God grant us the serenity
to accept the things we cannot change, the courage to
change the things we can, and the wisdom to know the
difference’ — I wanted to run for the door. When people in
the meeting ‘shared’ their own experiences, I found myself

[p. <i>162</i>]

As I drove home that night, amazed that I'd admitted
that I was an alcoholic, something seemed different. There
was a lightness to the world. A summer breeze. A dog
running wild. A plane in the sky. I thought of all the people
that had come up to me after the meeting and introduced
themselves and given me their phone numbers and said
that I — a complete stranger — could call them at any time,
day or night. Their compassion was overwhelming. I was
almost scared off by such unconditional warmth.


When I got into bed, I dug around in my bedside
drawers until I found it. That old book. The one I'd
buried because it scared the hell out of me. <i>Alcoholism
and the Facts</i>. The old library stamp on the inside of the
jacket smiled at me, the scrawled ‘Sale 50p’ on the yellowing
title page too. I propped myself up on two pillows and
turned to the first page. God knows it was time.


‘All alcoholics are extremely intelligent and extremely
childish.’


It was August. Warm summer air gripped me by the
throat. I was standing in another car park, after another AA
meeting, talking with a kind, compassionate woman. Black
hair, fifteen years sober. Smart, well dressed, funny, open.


She said her name was Barbara. She had cornered me

[p. <i>163</i>]

And then that comment.


Like a baseball bat blow to the head. Boom.


She knew what she was talking about. Blackouts, cold
sweats, vomiting, panic attacks, depressions, DTs, nightmares,
broken promises, forgotten threats, bruises, fractures,
cuts, scrapes with the law, death even.


‘I was ashamed to even wake up in the end,’ she told me.


She knew how I felt better than I did.


Some days it was like I didn't know anything. Right
there, right then, all I knew was that I didn't want to drink
again.


‘There's nothing else to know,’ she said, trying to make
me feel better. ‘Just knowing that you don't want to drink
today is all you need to know.’


‘What made you get in touch after all this time?’


The pub garden was noisy. Some teenagers were playing
a drinking game.


‘I just wanted to see you.’


Elizabeth sat opposite me, smoking a cigarette.


‘Why though?’


To tell her why I really broke up with her. But I
couldn't.


‘I guess I wanted to show you how much I've changed.’


She exhaled. Out of the side of her mouth.


‘So how long is it since you had a drink?’


‘Almost ten months.’

[p. <i>164</i>]

‘That's great. Do you feel better?’


‘I think so. It's a mixed bag. Up and down, left and right.’


She smiled. We were both older now. She had been
through her own stuff too. She told me stories that night
that made me shiver. Drugs, cutting her arms and legs with
knives, bulimia, her parents' divorce.


‘You've always been like that, though, drinking or not
drinking.’


‘True.’


I had also got in touch with her because I wanted to hear
her say something like that.


‘Why don't you write?’ she asked.


‘I do.’


‘I mean for a living.’


‘Oh. I don't know.’


She pulled one of her faces. This one meant: you're
downplaying yourself.


‘Your poems used to make me cry.’


I shook the ice in the bottom of my Coca-Cola. Sober or
not, I still couldn't take a compliment.


‘You're probably biased,’ I said. ‘I shouldn't listen to
you.’


We laughed.


It reminded me of all the other times we used to laugh.


Long ago.


Another lifetime.


‘If you don't want to try again,’ I said. ‘Then say it. I'm
sick of not knowing where I stand with you. This is it, once

[p. <i>165</i>]

Laura was drunk. We were in a pub in Clapham. It was
the first time we'd seen each other since that night in May.
I was going to call her, to clear the air — as part of my own
ongoing experimental version of Step 9 — when she called
me and suggested we meet up.


‘Don't do this,’ she said, curling her fingers around her
glass.


‘Just give me a Yes or No answer.’


She pulled a cigarette out of a crumpled pack and lit it.


‘It's too dangerous,’ she said with tears in her eyes. ‘You
really fucked me up. Of course I love you but you're too
much. Nobody will ever be able to deal with you. You're
too fucking intense.’


‘At least I don't lie to myself and pretend I don't have
feelings when I do.’


‘Fuck you, Nick.’


‘Where's your boyfriend tonight? Does he know you're
seeing me? Or is this being presented to him as another of
your classic two-boyfriend scenarios?’


I'd gone too far. She had tears in her eyes.


‘I'm going to walk out of that door now unless you stop
me.’


She stared into my eyes and said nothing. I knew it was
time to give up Laura. I was addicted to her too. She had
to go, just like the drink had to go. So I walked, her
calling my name as I pushed one door open and closed
another.

[p. <i>166</i>]

23 October 1995. One year sober. I kept saying it out
loud. I was alone in my car heading to an AA meeting.
When I got there, I was so happy that I got choked up as I
sat at the back and listened to a young woman tell her
moving story of alcoholism and recovery. At the end of the
meeting, when we were all asked if there were any ‘birthdays’,
I put up my hand. When my time to speak came
round, I said that I was one year sober that very day.
Everyone clapped. Barbara, who'd given me that life-changing
talk in the car park, turned around from a
few rows in front and smiled. She mouthed, ‘I remember,’
and the hairs on the back of my neck stood up. It was like
a dream.


When I left the meeting that night, I sat in my car for a
while, just watching the people file out of the church.
Some stood huddled together in little groups, smoking and
talking. Others hurried off to their husbands, wives,
children, families, friends, empty homes, wrecked lives,
long hours of loneliness. Winter was ripping everything to
pieces but I didn't care. I started the engine and pulled
away. The song on the car stereo was one I knew by heart.
I started singing along, the applause at the meeting still
ringing in my ears.


‘You've got to do something,’ my mother said. ‘If you
get any more depressed, you're going to be in trouble
again.’

[p. <i>167</i>]

It was Christmas 1995. I was drowning. After my
attempts to set things straight with Elizabeth and Laura,
I hadn't heard from either of them again. Mike called once
in a while but we never met up. Dennis was busy with a
new girlfriend. Paul now lived and worked in Cardiff.
There was no one left ...


‘I know,’ I said. ‘I just don't know what to do.’


I'd been going to a journalism course at night school
since September.


‘Leave your job. Move back to London. That's probably
a good place to start.’


I knew I had to leave my parents' house. I was too old to
still be living at home.


‘I suppose I'll enrol on this sub-editing night school
course. That lasts from January until March. Then I'll
look for a new job and get my own place.’


My mother was nodding her head.


‘OK. Do that.’


January 1996. Six o'clock. The Publisher called me into
his office. He blamed me for the magazine's dwindling
sales figures. I tried to defend myself. There was no
passion though. I couldn't even pretend to give a shit.
So he fired me. I left his office relieved. At least this was
one thing that I didn't have to give up. It was just taken
from me. How easy ...

[p. <i>168</i>]

For every loss, a reward ...


The reward was love. The woman I'd spent my whole life
waiting for. The one who got me, the one who understood
me. My Esther Greenwood. My blue beauty. Head of
black curls. Petite and pale. My smiling twin. The part of
me that had always been missing.


Anna had come to London to study for an MA. She and I
had a mutual friend — Kristen, my old friend, maternal
Kristen, whom I'd stayed in touch with ever since she went
back to California — and when she left San Francisco,
Kristen had given her my phone number. She rang me the
day after I lost my job.


‘Is that a good or a bad thing?’ she asked when I told
her.


‘I hope it's a good thing,’ I said. ‘Anyway, what are you
doing tomorrow night?’


‘Nothing. What have you got in mind?’


‘Let's go out for a drink.’


And we did.


All night, we talked until our throats hurt.


We didn't draw breath until they were putting the chairs
on the tables and flicking the lights on and off in the bar, in
a bid to get rid of us. I knew it was different. So different
from anything I'd ever known before. I was so comfortable
with her. I told her everything. Nothing sounded like
a big deal. I said I was a recovering alcoholic and she just
nodded. I told her about the depression, the panic attacks,
hospital, hypnotherapy, losing all my friends, AA. She

[p. <i>169</i>]

When it came to falling in love, there was no falling to do.
Anna was as much of an outsider as I was. She was born in
Paris to Polish — Jewish parents. When she was six, they
emigrated to Los Angeles. When we met she'd come by
way of New York and San Francisco. She'd travelled so
far, had so many homes. I'd made my own journey too.
The arcs of our journeys intersected. We collided. Just as
we were meant to. There was laughter. So much of it. We
shared the same references. Films. Books. Music. We
taught each other to fly. To dream. Our love was a bubble
that kept us safe. I never knew how unhappy I'd been until
she showed what being happy really was. Everything
seemed possible. Excitement was in the air. We had our
own world. Two weeks after we met, we vowed to never
be apart. I'd never pursued any woman like I pursued her.
It was absolute. I'd never known love like this. Elizabeth.
Laura. I loved them. But it wasn't the same. Anna loved
the real me, the true me. And once I knew what that felt
like, I knew I'd die without it.


It was April 1996. A warm spring evening. We'd run away
to Paris together. Croissants for breakfast. Café mornings.

[p. <i>170</i>]

One night, after dinner, we wandered into Sacré-Coeur.
I'd told Anna the story. Of sitting in those battered pews,
praying for change. Hundreds of candles serenaded us.
The air was thick with the volume of prayer. The choir
sang their joyous hymns. Heads were bowed. Strangers
wore their faith like armour. Our hands were joined
together. It was like making love. I lit a candle and made
a wish. We sat for a while. Happy to be happy. I led her to
a quiet corner. I asked her to marry me. It seemed only
right that I begin my new life where I'd made the decision
to end my old life. She said yes. The mass was in full flow
and the sweeping passages of soaring music might have
knocked us off our feet had we not had each other to cling
to. There were tears, only this time they were tears of love,
not of shame and sadness. We left the cathedral, the whole
of Paris spread out before us, and sat down on the steps,
just holding on to each other, not saying a word, thinking
how lucky we were to have found each other.

[p. <i>171</i>]

In June, we flew out to Los Angeles to see Anna's parents.
Midway through our stay, we took off on a road trip to visit
Raymond Carver's grave in Port Angeles, a small town in
Washington. His writing had haunted me ever since I
discovered him when I was eighteen. During my first year
sober, the story of his life — moving from alcoholism and
despair to sobriety and love — gave me hope, and now I
wanted to thank him. We left Seattle around noon and
drove north through the forests. By the time we found the
cemetery, it was raining hard and getting dark. It was set in a
clearing in a forest at the end of a dirt track. The edge of the
cemetery curled off a cliff face into the Pacific Ocean. We
had to use Anna's cigarette lighter to find his grave because
it was so dark. One of the poems that Carver wrote as he
was dying from cancer, ‘Gravy’, was etched in the stone. It
was a poem that I'd read a hundred times when I drank and
never connected with. Now, with Anna by my side, sober, it
put a lump in my throat. <i>No other word will do. For that's
what it was. Gravy./ Gravy, these past ten years./ Alive,
sober, working, loving and/Being loved by a good woman.
Eleven years/ago he was told he had six months to live/at the
rate he was going. And he was going/nowhere but down. So
he changed his ways/somehow. He quit drinking! And the
rest?/After that it was all gravy, every minute/of it</i> ... Anna
and I stood hugging each other, in the dark, in the middle of
nowhere, soaked to the bone, crows squawking all around
us, the ocean roaring, the trees whistling, the wind chimes
tied to Carver's grave singing their eerie song, and then we
hurried back to the car, eager to get back to life, the open
roads, journeys in progress.

[p. <i>172</i>]

‘This is getting ridiculous.’


I was busy chopping a propranolol pill into thirds.


‘What now? Thirds? Quarters? Fifths? Sixths?’


It was really hard to get equal thirds because the pill
tended to split under the pressure of the blade.


‘I'm doing more thirds,’ I said.


‘And then what?’ Anna asked. ‘You're going to try
snorting halves for breakfast? I mean, come on. It's a
joke. Why don't you just get off them?’


I'd started playing with the dose on the advice of my
new doctor. I'd gone to see him because the propranolol
was wiping me out. I was working nights for a tele-sales
company close to our flat in Camden and writing about
music for <i>Melody Maker</i> the rest of the time. He suggested
that I start chopping the pills into whatever dose I thought
I needed.


‘I'm trying to. It's difficult.’


After seeing the doctor I tried taking a quarter of a pill a
day. At first, I got my energy back. I was in good spirits. I
felt great. Then I couldn't sleep. After a massive panic
attack swooped down on me while Anna and I were in a
supermarket checkout queue, I went back to taking a
whole pill a day. Now, I was playing pharmacist again.


‘But that's real life. Panic attacks happen. You can't
avoid them.’


Perfect thirds whispered ‘She's wrong’ from the chopping
board.


‘I know,’ I said and swallowed a third of a pill.

[p. <i>173</i>]

‘Happy Two Years Sober.’


Anna gave me a kiss. We were having a romantic
dinner. No AA this year. I'd stopped going. Something
had kept me from those meetings. I kept telling myself I
was bothered by the God stuff and by the idea of
devoting so much time to talking about how I didn't
drink any more. Honestly, though, I was still in denial.
My brain was dulled with propranolol and going to
meetings made my skin crawl. It was too painful, too
raw. And I knew that taking medication was frowned
upon by AA. I got angry the first time someone lectured
me about how I shouldn't take any medication — like beta
blockers, antidepressants, tranquillisers — because it sets
up more addictive patterns. As far as I was concerned,
propranolol had played a big role in making my sobriety
possible. In truth, though, I was angry he and all the
others after him were right.


‘Thank you.’


She poured me a glass of sparkling mineral water.


‘I'm proud of you,’ she said and we raised our glasses
for a toast.


Everything was perfect on paper. I was more than two
years sober, busy writing my first book, working for
<i>Melody Maker</i>; I'd quit my tele-sales job, Anna had a
good job. There was something wrong though. My moods
were erratic because of the irregular propranolol doses.

[p. <i>174</i>]

‘You've been taking propranolol for almost three years. I
think it's time we weaned you off it.’


September 1997. A new flat on the border of King's
Cross and Bloomsbury, another new doctor.


‘But every time I try and come off it, I get panic attacks
and feel strung out and then I can't sleep.’


She chewed her lower lip, deep in thought.


‘We'll do it slowly, starting with a lower dose from
tonight. And I'll refer you to our counsellor. This way,
you'll get some solid support as you make a clean break
from it.’


It sounded like the last thing I wanted to do. I took the
new prescription from her like it was a curse.

[p. <i>175</i>]

My sleeping patterns went haywire. I woke up early in the
morning and couldn't get back to sleep. I went to bed late and
couldn't get to sleep. I was grinding my teeth at night, loudly
enough to wake Anna up. Some nights, she woke to find me
sleep-walking. The panic attacks came by the swarm. On the
tube. On the bus. In the bath. While I was waiting for the
kettle to boil. The craving for a drink came back. Gnashing,
bright fangs. I was unravelling. It felt like it was October
1994 all over again and I'd only just stopped drinking.


‘Would you like some healing?’ the counsellor asked.


‘Healing?’


I didn't know what she meant. But I was ready to try
anything.


‘Reiki healing.’


‘OK,’ I said.


She got up.


‘Can you lie on the bed please?’


I got on to the bed.


‘You can close your eyes or leave them open,’ she said,
her soft voice reminding me of Angie.


I closed my eyes.


‘What are you going to do?’


‘It's a simple process of "laying on of hands". I will lay
my hands just above your body and free your energy
blockages and obstructions. I'm going to re-direct your
energy flow and correct it.’

[p. <i>176</i>]

My heart was thumping.


‘Breathe nice and slowly,’ she said, her voice now a
faraway whisper.


I concentrated on my breathing. Angie's voice came into
my head, warm and comforting. <i>You feel as though you're
weightless. You haven't a care in the world. You're bathed
in a pure, white light. It protects you</i>. My lungs slowed up,
my heart slowed up, the anxious tremor in my hands
settled down.


‘How do you feel?’ she asked in a lighter-than-air whisper.


It was our second appointment. I'd felt so weird after
the first session — disoriented, exhausted, anxious, dizzy —
that I almost didn't go back.


‘Nauseous and.like I'm floating. My legs and arms feel
numb.’


‘OK, just let yourself go.’


The bed floated beneath me. I could sense her hands as
they hovered inches above my body.


‘I feel scared now,’ I said. ‘It's as if I'm rising into the
air.’


‘There's nothing to worry about.’


Random images were spilling into my conscious, a
memory rainstorm, bits and pieces of my past blowing
everywhere. An image of my dead grandfather came to me
and then drifted away.


‘I just saw my dead grandfather,’ I mumbled.


She laughed.


Why was she laughing?


‘Don't be afraid,’ she said. ‘Sometimes spirits contact
people while they're being healed. It's quite common.’


‘Spirits?’

[p. <i>177</i>]

I opened my eyes, desperate to return to the real world.
She was still standing there in her blue blouse and grey
skirt. She was smiling at me when my eyes re-adjusted to
the bright lights.


‘Now, we need to wash our hands like we did last time,’
she said walking over to the sink in the corner.


‘Why do we need to wash our hands?’ I'd asked her
when she did this after our first session.


‘To cleanse the energies,’ she'd explained.


I put my hands under the cold water like we did at the
first session and then dried them on the paper towel she
handed me.


‘Are you feeling all right?’ she asked.


‘I feel like I did last week. Really dizzy, like my legs have
turned to rubber.’


‘That's normal. When you get home, drink lots of water
and make sure you rest.’


She opened the pine wood door and ushered me back
out into the medical centre waiting room.


The healing was too much in the end. There were nightmares
afterwards, panic attacks. She wasn't helping me,
she was making things worse. Anna and I decided that I
shouldn't go to the remaining sessions. Instead, I would
find a private therapist. Her name was Diane. The first
session was OK, mostly background information. The
second one, a brief dip into the murkier stuff, the secrets.


‘I used to cut myself.’


She flinched, sat back in her chair.

[p. <i>178</i>]

‘Why did you do that?’ she asked, her jaw frozen wide
open.


‘It helped me cope.’


The look of disgust on her face said everything I needed
to know.


‘It never hurt when I was doing it,’ I said, getting
defensive. ‘It was a way to blank out the other pain,
the stuff that's invisible.’


If there's one thing I've learned from all this, it's to walk
away when you know someone's never going to get ‘it’.
After that session, I never went back.


‘Hi, my name is Nick and I'm an alcoholic’


‘Hi Nick,’ came back a chant of fifty or so voices.


The room was musty. It was a cold Wednesday night in
November. I struggled to find the words I was looking for.
They were unformed as yet, shapeless, hesitant. I could
hear feet nervously shuffling under the wooden tables.
Somebody coughed. A woman opposite me was clinging
to a Styrofoam coffee cup. Steam was rising out of it. The
woman who was running the meeting smiled at me. Sound
emerged from the back of my throat, ‘I have a story to tell.’


AA was different this time around. I went to meetings with
an open heart and found what I needed. Trust. Comfort.
Support. Warmth. Compassion. There was regret too.

[p. <i>179</i>]

No cure cured me. I was bouncing from one feelgood
remedy to another, patching my sobriety up just as I had
patched my drinking life up with a string of short-term
solutions. Soon, one AA meeting wasn't enough. I found
myself flicking through the London meetings directory at
all times of the day and night. I was also spending a lot of
time on Recovery Link, a twenty-four hours a day, seven
days a week, on-line chat group for recovering alcoholics
and drug addicts. It became disabling, dangerous. I started
to feel as though I couldn't do anything myself. My
independence, my stubbornness, the things I valued about
myself, were drifting away. I was becoming a child again,
in constant need of approval, support. I stopped believing
in myself, that all the strength I needed to stay sober, to

[p. <i>180</i>]

But of course that didn't mean me facing up to my
problems. I wasn't ready for that. I just wanted to keep
hunting for the cure. I prowled health food stores like
they were off-licences. I took handfuls of vitamins with
breakfast each morning. I tried every kind of herbal tea I
could find. I couldn't stop searching. It was a heartbreaking
obsession. I refused to give up and accept the
things I couldn't change. I'm not a quitter. Never have
been. Never will be. The patch-ups came thick and fast
and all of them worked for a few days, sometimes weeks
if I was lucky, and then failed me: Sleepytime Tea, St
John's Wort, ginseng, ginkgo biloba, kava kava, lavender
oil, Quiet Life herbal tablets, Kalms, camomile tea, feng
shui ...


Florence. Such a beautiful city. Anna and I had gone away
on a last-minute holiday. I was restless, unable to focus.

[p. <i>181</i>]

‘Why don't we drive to Monte Carlo?’ I said over
breakfast one morning.


‘Have you lost your mind?’


We had a map out on the table. We had talked about
driving to Pisa but that was an hour or so from where we
were staying.


‘We've never been there. Why don't we go?’


‘We're in the middle of Italy. It's eight am. Monte Carlo
is all the way over there.’


She followed the map with her finger.


‘So what?’ I said.


And that was that. We got in the rental car and I drove.
Nine hours later we were in Monte Carlo. It was early
evening. We had two of the most expensive drinks we'd ever
bought, walked about for an hour, watched people suffocate
on their diamonds and pearls and then got back in the car.


‘I'm falling asleep,’ Anna said.


We were going in and out of tunnels, clinging to
mountain roads.


‘It's OK,’ I said. ‘I'll wake you when we get there.’


We didn't get back until dawn was breaking. Even then,
I still wasn't tired. I wanted to keep driving. To Milan. To
Madrid. To Berlin. To Budapest. I wanted to go somewhere
and leave myself behind. But wherever I went, I got
there first.


I'd lost any notion of what ‘normal’ is. I was living a
‘normal’ life. I just didn't know it. I panicked if I got too
stressed about something or if work was getting me down.

[p. <i>182</i>]

I had unrealistic expectations of what life could be. I
thought that just because I quit drinking, I should be
happy all the time. I thought that just because I quit
drinking, then I could never get depressed again. I'd spent
so much of my life medicating my moods that I no longer
knew what a ‘normal’ mood was.


I got so strung out I thought I would explode into a
thousand tiny pieces. There was a solution though, one
I'd been thinking about a lot: I hadn't thrown away my
unused supply of propranolol as the doctor had asked me to
do. Instead, I'd buried those pills in the medicine cabinet —
just in case. And when the ‘just in case’ became reality, I
unscrewed the cap and peeped in at those pink pills, those
thought-mufflers. I remember shaking and wondering if I
was about to destroy everything. I had to have something.
I'd bailed on AA. I'd bailed on healing. I'd bailed on
therapy. I was prescribing assorted herbal remedies in
the hope that some mix of something would peel me off
the ceiling. I shook a pill into the palm of my hand. I put it on
my tongue and washed it down with some water. There.
Gone. Done. I didn't care. I closed my eyes and walked in
slow motion into a shower of beautiful fireworks.


Two weeks of random propranolol-popping later, I went
cold turkey again. The bliss of not having to think clearly,

[p. <i>183</i>]

‘Everything in your body is red, hot, angry. You are
blocked with internal heat: anxiety, anger, depression,
frustration, stress, panic, restless sleep, stomach problems,
headaches. All of these things are caused by internal heat. I
need to give you some herbs which will relax you and
release the heat.’


Attempt to fill the void #6 million. This time: Chinese
medicine. Same origin as all the other would-be cures. I
read a newspaper article. I saw something on TV. Somebody
told me something about it. You can pretty much fill
in the blanks. The withdrawal from propranolol was bad.
Panic attacks, insomnia, rage, no concentration, edginess,
uncontrollable energy levels, morbid anxiety, stomach
pain, depression. So I went to see this Chinese doctor
and asked him if he could give me something to help me
relax. He examined my tongue and took my pulse and
asked me questions about my diet and lifestyle habits and
then he made his diagnosis. I was sent home with seven

[p. <i>184</i>]

This latest miracle cure — and of course I told everyone I
knew, as always, that I'd finally found the thing that put
me in balance — soured too. When I finished the fortnight's
prescription of herbs, the panic attacks and the constant
anxiety came straight back. Silvery and ruthless. I kept
waking up at 4 or 5am and not being able to get back to
sleep. I'd lie in the dark, going out of my mind. Thinking
the same thoughts. That the headaches plaguing me must
be a brain tumour. That the stomach pain was now an
early warning sign of stomach cancer. That my insomnia
meant I was having a nervous breakdown. When I exploded
at the dinner table one night and threw an Evian
bottle across the room and shouted and yelled about how
much I wanted, needed, had to have a drink, the look of
horror on Anna's face told me I had hit a wall in my
sobriety.


So I started drinking again. Coffee, that is. I had to fill the
black hole inside with something: a vice. To most people,
the idea of drinking coffee or not drinking coffee means
nothing in the scheme of things. Coffee was just another

[p. <i>185</i>]

Did I miss drinking? Really, truly miss drinking? It was
starting to feel like I did. Did I miss the self-medication?
The order? The drinks themselves? The ritual? The security
of drowning in a bottle of wine each night? I kept
reminding myself of the other things: the vomiting blood,
the hangovers, the DTs, the people I hurt, the crying, the
broken health, the blackouts, hospital. It still didn't make

[p. <i>186</i>]

It amazes me how strong Anna was through all of this. She
anchored me, held steady, as I rushed from here to there
like a maniac. I exhausted her with my limitless energy and
my need to analyse everything in minuscule detail. She was
always patient and understanding. Often, she'd come
home from work to find a bottle of wine already uncorked
on the table.


‘Why is that open?’ she'd ask.


‘I'm letting it breathe.’


‘Oh,’ she'd say, her tone of voice understandably wary.


Of course, I did want her to enjoy the wine. I'd learned
all the tips over the years. But, really, I was playing
Russian Roulette. I'd buy wine for dinner, uncork it early
in the afternoon and then tease myself. I'd raise the bottle
to my nose and breathe in, eyes closed, dreaming, dreaming,
dreaming. I was testing myself, daring myself. But I
was too strong for that. I'd wait until my throat and
mouth and stomach were watering, screaming for that
wine and then I'd put it down on the table and go back to
my desk and do some work. One night, I told Anna why I
was really uncorking the bottles before she came home.


‘I knew you were testing yourself’, she said.


‘How did you know?’


‘Come on,’ she said. ‘How well do I know you? The only
reason I didn't say anything or tell you to stop torturing

[p. <i>187</i>]

Anna and I set a date to get married. Saturday 24 April
1999. Every day from then until the wedding: the same
picture in my head. Here comes the bride. Sipping champagne.
Here comes the groom. Sipping champagne. Cut.
No. Re-shoot the scene. Here comes the bride. Sipping
champagne. Here comes the groom. Sipping mineral
water.


Two, three nights a week, I went out running. I was trying
to burn off energy. I was trying to break the pattern that
had me working every day, every night, taking on more
and more projects in a bid to wallpaper over the war going
on inside me. I'd get home, soaked with sweat and take a
shower. For an hour, I'd be relaxed, high on endorphins,
and then it would all start up again. The machinery of my
distress. Noise. Heat. Steam. Crunch. Grind.


So many times, Anna and I had talked about cutting,
about self-harm, self-injury, self-inflicted violence, whatever

[p. <i>188</i>]

It was our Wedding Day. Anna and I walked down the steps
of the registry office through a shower of confetti. We posed
for some photographs and then got into the white stretch
limo that had been hired to take first us, and then other
guests, to the reception. A cluster of hands waved from the
other side of the mirrored windows. As the wheels started to
roll under us, Anna lowered the electric windows.


The sun had come out. I reached forward and pulled a
bottle of champagne out of one of several iceboxes that
littered the car. I tore the gold foil off the bottle's cap and

[p. <i>189</i>]

We were crawling past thousands of people on the street.
Past, present and future was now replaced by something
more immediate and more detached. I was so happy that I
forgot everything. Forgot I was a recovering alcoholic. I
could smell the champagne in the air. I could taste it on my
dry lips. I could hear its tiny bubbles breaking and shattering
like crystal falling on a stone floor. Life was flowing
through me. What does it matter? It all happened so fast. I
was perched on the edge of the black leather seat. The driver
turned some music on. It was thumping out of the speakers
from all directions. Anna took a sip from her champagne
glass. I had never sipped champagne.


Anna says that I got a ‘crazy look’ in my eyes. I was
caught up in the romance of it all. I wanted the champagne,
the loving eyes, the sunshine, the band of gold on
my finger, everything. Someone at an AA meeting once
told me that alcoholics don't live, they need. I told Anna
that I was going to have a glass of champagne. I leaned
over and scooped up a second glass. A great looking glass.
Refined stem, pretty shape.


For a moment in the back of that limo, time stood still. I
was going to have that drink. A spring snapped inside me.
I wanted to cut myself free. I wanted to be normal, just for
a day. I wanted a genie to leap from the bottle and grant
me one wish. An impossible wish. That I could drink for
just one day and have it not count...

[p. <i>190</i>]

I went to pour out the champagne, trembling at the
thought of downing it in one shot, of the bubbles burning
up my nose, of the champagne scorching my throat and
oesophagus and then that wonderful calm like a rusty old
anchor being dropped into the ocean in slow motion.
Aaaaaah. The window-shaking sigh. The flutter in the
stomach and then peace: hands, even outstretched, as steady
as a rock; heartbeat slow and regular, thoughts fluid and
linear; a warm glow of self-confidence and safety blazing in
my soul; a life travelling at a thousand miles an hour slowing
to a hundred miles an hour, wind blowing through my hair,
the passing landscape visible rather than a blur.


Anna took the glass away from me and then the bottle. I
was dazed. I didn't know what was happening. Here, she
said, drink this. She handed me a can of Tango. I tore back
the ring-pull and started drinking it. The car hit some
dense traffic. I could hardly breathe. I was suffocating.
Then I felt her hand take mine. It's OK, she said. It's a big
day. It's a very big day.


The next day, when we were flying at 30,000 feet on our
way to Rome, Anna turned to me and told me that it was
the closest that she had ever seen me come to relapsing. I
didn't say anything but it gave me the chills.


When we got back from our honeymoon, we went back to
living in our bubble. People kept asking us if we felt different
now that we were married. We didn't. We were just glad to
be alone again. The wedding was for everyone around us. A
chance for them to step inside the bubble for one day. As

[p. <i>191</i>]

Five months later. September, tight like a scarf. Bonfire
smoke. Memories of shuffling through heaps of leaves on
school breaks. My parents sleeping. My sister on the
phone in her bedroom talking to her boyfriend. Me: back
in my old bedroom. Now a spare bedroom. But to me
always my bedroom, even in a hundred years' time, when
I'm dead and someone else sleeps in it.


The room was full of memories: vomiting up the walls
in my sleep, Elizabeth, cutting myself, the skull crushing
depressions, Laura, getting drunk listening to music on
headphones, bottles of bourbon, the jobs, hospital, recovery,
getting fired, the friends I used to have. Ghosts danced
around my bed. Far away, so close. I tried to concentrate
on the Anne Sexton biography I was reading. I wasn't
interested in anything but Anne Sexton. Her battle with
depression and alcoholism. Her suicide. Her bruised vocabulary.
I was in a time warp. I was seventeen again.
Except I wasn't reading <i>The Bell jar</i>. I was reading Anne
Sexton's poetry. I should have realised that I was back to
the beginning of the slide. That depression was driving its
nails through my hands and feet again.

[p. <i>192</i>]

Anna was away in Amsterdam on a work trip. I was
staying with my family. I didn't tell them but I was too
frightened to be alone. My moods were terrifying. I was
scared that I might do something stupid. When I turned up
at their house, my mother said I was too thin, that I needed
feeding up. We'd been through that scene so many times
before. She said I was ‘worked up’ and ‘incredibly anxious’. Anna rang me every night. Each time she called, my
mind was more scrambled. I spent most of our phone calls
up in my old bedroom, sobbing.


‘Why are you crying?’ she asked the first time she rang.


‘Because I feel like I'm dying inside.’


Later, when everyone was asleep and the house was quiet,
I saw flashes of the truth. That my optimism was a flat
tyre, that my strength of will was a black eye. I was falling
to pieces. And then, I lay very still in bed, reading about
another of Sexton's suicide attempts, tears crawling down
my cheeks.


That autumn came with a scowl. It was like all the colour
had been bleached out of the streets. Brown buildings. Grey
buildings. I wasn't sleeping or eating properly. Every night, I
went to bed early because I was so tired, but as soon as my
head hit the pillow, I was wide awake again. It was a cruel
joke. When I could get to sleep — at 2 or 3am — it was never for
long. I'd wake again sometime around 5am. The worse my
sleep got, the more I obsessed about it. Soon I was lying in
bed unable to sleep because I'd spent the whole day wondering

[p. <i>193</i>]

All throughout summer, bulbs had been blowing out in
my head. There was nowhere left to hide. I was so tired all
the time. "When I went running, mostly at night or early in
the morning, it took enormous effort for me to talk myself
into putting my trainers on and going out. Why bother?
What good will a stupid run do me now? Shall I go? I'd
ask Anna. Yes, she'd say. You need to. I'd finish tying my
laces and head out. People would rush past me and I'd
want to stop and ask them how they kept going, how they
didn't let death wreck their lives. There was so much death
in my head. Funerals. Elegies. Cemeteries. Orchids. My
brain was short-circuiting on morbid images. Some days,
embalmers and undertakers were all I thought about. And
when I say that, I don't mean to suggest that I had any
control over what I was thinking. These thoughts were
vermin from the part of my brain that had become a No
Go zone. It was burned out. Dangerous. Loose cables.
Live wires sticking from the walls like antennae. Rubble.
Flooding. Only a fool would have tried to go in there.


Once I stopped sleeping, the cracks turned up in just about
every other area of my life. Food was an irritation, something
to be pushed around plates that I didn't want to dirty because
it would only create more washing up to do. Washing up, like

[p. <i>194</i>]

This gentle undoing of my life was like watching a thread
come loose. I started to lose weight. Trousers that were
usually a little too tight began to hang about my hips. My
working life became a war. I wasted entire days staring at
my computer screen. All I did was make cup after cup of
coffee — most of which I forgot about as soon as I had made
them. Hours later, I would take a sip from one of these many
cups and realise that it had long since gone cold.


There were days when I would start crying for no
reason. Everything was so crisp, so real. I was standing
still, eyes closed, as this depression rolled over me. I was
too tired to try and escape any more. So I stopped. I just
stood there and let it catch up to me. And when it did, it
struck like a tidal wave. There was this weight against the
back of my head. Too great to describe. Giant puppet
hands slapping my skull all day, every day. Without
alcohol or drugs or any kind of escape, I had nothing
to defend myself with. The blizzard blew through me for
weeks. It got so cold. I longed for a bottle of vodka.
Anything to obliterate the drone in my head. To silence.
Numb. If only for a night. There was nowhere to go.
Nowhere to hide. When I broke down crying, I couldn't
explain why. One night, when I was crying in the kitchen,
Anna kept asking me why I was so upset. The best answer
I could come up with was: ‘I've gone missing.’


‘What's that supposed to mean?’


‘It's just how I feel,’ I said. ‘I can't put it any other way. I
can't find myself.’

[p. <i>195</i>]

Anna tried everything. Buying me books she thought I'd
get excited about. Booking tickets to see an old film she
knew I loved. Getting me to help her cook an elaborate
dinner. When none of these things brought me back to life,
she panicked.


‘I think you need to get into therapy,’ she said one night.
‘You're getting worse every day.’


‘It's OK. It's just a rocky patch.’


‘But you've been fighting this for so long now,’ she said.
‘When are you just going to stop and face yourself?’


The pasta on my plate looked overwhelming. Like an
aerial view of an entire country. Anna had already
finished hers, the remnants of the tomato sauce leaving
curls and swirls all over the white expanse of her empty
plate.


‘I'm not going to give up. That's not what I'm about. I
will not resign myself to this shitty mood and just lie down
and let it rip me to pieces.’


‘But it's already tearing you to pieces.’


A sad song was playing softly in the background. I can't
remember what it was. I've tried. But I can't.


‘Maybe,’ I said. ‘But what have I always said? I got
depressed because I drank. Part of the deal was that if I
gave up drinking, then I'd never get depressed again.’


‘I think you've got it back to front,’ she corrected. ‘I
think you drank because you were depressed.’


I thought the windows were going to blow out.

[p. <i>196</i>]

I had shut down a long time ago. Maybe as long ago as
when the doctor took me off propranolol. I lost a little
ground every week. I tried to stall its progress, its assault. I
put up a fight. And by the time it had overrun me, I was in
deep denial. I'm fine. I'm OK. I'll be better next week.
Small things picked me up: a film, a dinner, Anna's smile,
work, a relaxing bath, a day off, a night when I could
sleep. And these things made me feel that I had been
making it all up. That it was all in my mind. That I wasn't
depressed. It was just a down period. It was working too
hard. It was not going out enough. It was working from
home. There are always a million excuses. But Anna
knew. She saw through my see-saw moods. The days
when I hardly spoke followed by days when I planned
trips to Italy or dragged her off on shopping sprees. She let
things coast for a while and then, when she knew I was
slipping away, she rang the alarm bell.


‘Please see a therapist.’


She was desperate. Tears in those beautiful blue pools
for eyes.


‘I will.’


‘You keep saying you will but you won't call anyone.’


‘I'll do it soon.’


‘Look at you,’ she said. ‘You're wasting away. You're
not eating. You're not sleeping. You don't want to go out.
You don't want to do anything. You don't want to see
anyone. You're obsessed with your health. I don't know
what to do any more.’


There were so many aches and pains in my body. I
thought I had so many different illnesses. Anna couldn't

[p. <i>197</i>]

‘But what if I am ill?’


‘This is getting fucking ridiculous!’ she shouted. ‘You're
not acting like yourself. All of this stuff you keep going on
about is just anxiety bullshit. You're not dying.’


‘How do you know?’


The next day, I begged her to let me spend money we
didn't have on a series of private ultrasound scans so I
could rule out the various cancers that I was sure I had.


‘And then what?’ she said. ‘Then, it'll be something else.
For the last time: please see a therapist.’


‘I don't need to. I promise you.’


The water was a long way down. The city lights were
playing kiss chase on the water's surface. Skipping. Dancing.
Skimming. Some of the prettiest reds and blues I'd
ever seen. It was cold. Bitterly cold for late September. I
had my hands in my pockets. A grey wool scarf tied tight
around my neck. A head full of Anne Sexton's poetry. Her
words had become friends. They were clearings in the
chaos. Places where I didn't feel like I was losing my mind.
Like I was crazy. Like I was dying. The bridge was busy
with people rushing to and from the South Bank. I was on
my way to see a Robert Bresson film. Anna had arranged
weeks before to see a play with a friend. I was going to stay
home but then I saw the film was on and decided to go. It's
about a young woman who commits suicide. That got my
attention. Little else did. The idea of suicide was starting to

[p. <i>198</i>]

The River Thames splashed below. Black. Blue. Filthy.
Dirty. Everything played out in slow motion. A blur of
colours. Derailment. Slow and painful. There was a sudden
whoosh in my head: a dam bursting. A giddy, hysterical
flood of impulsiveness. An overwhelming hunger to throw
myself off the bridge. Down into the water. There was a
split-second division in my heart. I wanted to jump. I didn't
want to jump. The pull was so violent, so savage, as if
suicide had reached into my stomach and was dragging me
by the entrails towards death. My legs readied themselves to
make the leap. It all happened so fast. None of this lasted
more than ten seconds. But each second was a lifetime. The
rational response — you're depressed, you're not making
sense, you have responsibilities to those who love you, think
of Anna, think of your family — hurried me to the guard rail.
I grabbed hold of the steel. I was shaking. Cold sweat. Heart
palpitations. The rush-hour pedestrian flow blew through
me, anonymous voices cursing me for blocking the small
foot bridge from Embankment tube station over to the
South Bank. I hurried across the bridge, shuffling my hands
along the railing as if I was scaling a rope. When I got to the
other side, I didn't know what to do with myself. I thought
I'd gone crazy. I went into the cinema toilets and splashed
cold water on my face. When I looked into a mirror, a
stranger stared back at me. I sat in the cinema and the film
began. A young woman leaped to her death. From her
apartment. Many floors up. Crushed on the street below.


When I got home, I couldn't bring myself to tell Anna
what had happened. I knew how much it would hurt her.
And I didn't want to hurt her. I only wanted to hurt myself.

[p. <i>199</i>]

A week later, I finally told her what had happened — or
what had almost happened — and she walked me to the
medical centre. I saw another new doctor. The doctor's
questions were so familiar that I almost knew every
question before it came out of his mouth. He wanted to
know everything: that I write for a living, that Anna and I
got married in April, that we bought a flat in June, that I'd
been between book contracts since May. And, of course,
that I had a history of depression. And anxiety. And that I
was a recovering alcoholic. I was surprised when I told
him this. It was out there, free. Finally, I had told a doctor
the truth. When there was nothing more to say, I was
diagnosed once again as suffering from severe depression
and anxiety. I was prescribed the same antidepressant as
all the other times. When I got out of his room, Anna was
waiting for me. I told her what he said. We were both
relieved because it was over. The fighting, the running, the
denial. At last, I was destroyed.


By the time it was dark, the foundations of my sober life to
date were charred, smouldering, erased. I was a complete
blank. Nothing meant anything except my love for Anna.
After dinner, I popped a red Prothiaden pill from the blister
pack into the palm of my hand. I looked at the pill. It looked
at me. You again, we both whispered in unison.


Everything smears when I try to give that winter a narrative.
There just isn't one. I remember going back to the

[p. <i>200</i>]

Déjà vu shadowed every step I took. When I suddenly
knew where I was — a building or a bar or a subway sign
triggering memories that weren't quite real — there was the
sense that I had borrowed someone else's life. I'd go into
bookstores that looked interesting and realise that I'd been
there before. I'd go into a bar for a cold Coke and
recognise the chairs, the tables, or the name of the place.
We all re-write our pasts to make them manageable,
bearable. During that week, back in New York for the
first time in eight years, I again realised how out of control
I'd once been. Holed up at Hotel 31, my brain dulled by jet
lag and antidepressants, I scrutinised maps, and then set

[p. <i>201</i>]

Spring was in full swing. The bell jar was lifting. Seven
months of pills and there was colour again. A full palette of
excitement even. I went to bed at night and slept until
morning. I cooked elaborate dinners. Anna and I re-deco-rated
our flat, both of us keen to begin a new era, another
chapter. Writing this book helped me start to make sense of
my past. I started to understand why things happened. And
how they stopped happening. And started again.


The sun's shining. It's a wonderful afternoon in early
summer. I'm sitting in one of the finest restaurants in Paris
with Roman Polanski. I've been sent to Paris to interview
him. Like all my work as a journalist, I'm repaying debts to
those whose work helped me through difficult times, whose
giving gave me a reason to live. I ask him a question about

[p. <i>202</i>]

Later, on a Eurostar train, coming home, I realise that I
had him sign his book for the person I once was. I got that
autograph for the person who used to sit in that little room
with Veronica, his arms covered in cuts, a hangover
chewing his liver up, depression crackling in his brain.
And now...I just got paid to spend an afternoon with
Roman Polanski. I feel so happy I want to stand up and
tell the whole train. I want to time travel back to Veronica's
room and give myself a big hug. I open the book as
we go through the Channel Tunnel and stare at the
inscription. And then I close it and smile because a
beautiful woman is waiting for me at home. And I can't
believe that either.


11 June 2000. Thirty years old. Five years and eight
months sober. Anna and I are sitting in a restaurant in
Paris, my favourite city in the whole world. She surprised
me by booking this two-day trip as a present. She sips a
glass of red wine. I sip a glass of Badoit mineral water.

[p. <i>203</i>]

‘Happy thirtieth birthday,’ says Anna.


She raises her glass of red wine. I raise my glass of
Badoit. I am finally comfortable with the fact that I am a
recovering alcoholic. We clink glasses. We did the same
thing the night before for Anna's birthday.


‘Guess I'm an old man now,’ I say, messing around.


‘Hey old man,’ she replies.


We laugh.


I am always laughing with her.


I didn't laugh much before she came into my life.


‘I love you.’


All of Paris is behind her, out the window, lights,
people, cars, bikes.


‘I love you too,’ she replies. ‘Remember the cards?’


Somehow, out of all the cards in the world, we bought
each other the exact same birthday card.


There's a point with antidepressants where you hit autopilot.
They can only take you so far. And then you walk
into a haze. The kind of haze that hangs over Los Angeles
early in the morning. The world is warm and fuzzy. You
bump into furniture. Forget to call people back. Go out
to buy a carton of milk and come home with everything
but. Things get too cosy, too comfortable. Real life is so
far away. The medication drives a wedge between you
and the depression. And once that wedge has been
created and sustained, something else is needed to scare

[p. <i>204</i>]

It was Anna's idea that we both start going to a kickboxing
class. I wasn't really interested. It took a lot of
persuading to get me to go. I was still having down days,
days when I felt hopeless and agitated. They were happening
less and less but were enough of a concern for my
doctor to offer me short-term counselling. I knew we'd
waste the six sessions I was allowed under NHS policy just
setting the scene. So Anna dragged me to this class. I went
along and it changed everything. At last, a type of exercise
that got rid of all of my negative feelings. Running,
swimming, cycling, those were just fads that scratched
the surface. This was it. This did it.


I've gone once a week ever since. I leave those classes
drenched in sweat, exhausted, everything purged. There's
no one-on-one combat, it's all based on principles of
shadow boxing. The class is in a gym with mirrored walls.
When we kick and box, the instructor tells us to direct all
of our anger at our own reflection. When I kick or punch, I
am beating and pummelling the depressed me, the alcoholic
me, the cutting me, the addictive me. I look at him as
he stares at me, antidepressants buzzing in my veins, and I
attack him with all my strength.


When every muscle is burning, aching, I am alive. When
I am drenched in sweat, I like to think of the sweat as my
past. I am purging memories. My body remembers everything.
I have written on it. Damaged it. Abused it. Bankrupted
it. Now I am paying it back. There is a debt. A debt
of flesh. I throw a jab. A cross. A hook. An upper cut. I
skip. Dance on my feet. Guard up. I cover my face with my
fists. Lash out. Anchor my brain's lust for meandering

[p. <i>205</i>]

The kick-boxing broke the deadlock of this depression.
It capitalised on the work done by the antidepressants and
helped push the depression away. Soon, the pounds were
falling off me. I was so out of shape and overweight when I
went to that first class. I had ballooned up to almost
fourteen stone on the medication. Within a month, I had
shed a stone. I do some kind of exercise at least every other
day now. I am learning to exorcise the moods that create a
perfect breeding ground for anxiety, panic attacks, depression,
the craving for a drink. The goal is to learn to identify
dangerous thoughts and moods and then to beat them out
of me before they find a foothold.


I caught myself one day, as Anna and I were fooling
around and said, ‘I'm laughing.’


‘I know,’ she said. ‘You're back.’


‘Where did I go?’


‘Palookaville.’


‘Was I gone long?’


We stopped kidding around. Anna had tears in her eyes.


‘A long, long time.’


I hugged her.


‘You know,’ I said. ‘I'd die without you.’

[p. <i>206</i>]

It was a hot day in July. A sudden thirst stopped me in my
tracks. For the first time since I quit drinking, I craved a
chilled bottle of mineral water. The craving for a cold beer
that popped up whenever the sun came out had finally
been replaced. I'm getting there, I thought, chuckling, and
strode out into the sun's rays. Warm, surprised, back from
the dead.


I felt like myself again. A better version of myself. Happy
even. I wasn't angry any more. I had been angry for so
long. Now, I had a little peace of mind. Some balance.
Some quiet. I didn't resent the depression I was almost
through with. I saw it as a gift. It had just been time for me
to shed another skin. That was all. Time to move forwards,
come to an end, start a new beginning. A part of
me died and I mourned it for a long time. And then there
were things to do.


‘Congratulations,’ the doctor said. ‘You've done so well to
come out of this depression. You've fought it and you've
beaten it.’


Back at the medical centre. September 2000. A year
after I turned up there dreaming of going to sleep and
never waking up again.

[p. <i>207</i>]

‘Thank you.’


He smiled at me. We had talked over my progress. I told
him that I wanted to come off the medication. We had
been reducing my dose, bit by bit, down from 150mg a
day to 125mg to l00mg. I'd levelled out at 75mg and
wanted to drop another dose.


‘Let's turn this over to you now. I'll give you a prescription
that will put you on fifty milligrams for a fortnight and
then twenty-five milligrams for a fortnight. You monitor
how you feel. If you feel shaky come back and see me.
Otherwise, I think it's time for you to come off them now.’


When I go down to 50mg, I instantly notice the difference.
My body shrinks. I lose five pounds in the first
week. I realise how much the medication has been
damaging my metabolism. I have so much energy. The
energy of a power station. I panic when I can't get to
sleep on the first few nights. Oh, this again. The tossing
and turning. The thoughts taking off and landing like
planes. An airport for a brain. The creak of the bed.
Anna fast asleep beside me. Wanting to get up and write.
To exercise. To check e-mail. To maximise my life. Stall
death. The insomnia drags on, night after night, all the
way to 25mg. But the big difference this time is I don't get
scared. This is real life. All over the world, there are
people who can't get to sleep.

[p. <i>208</i>]

It's a regular shopping trip. I walk down to the supermarket
and buy some food. When I pass the alcohol aisle,
a voice calls out to me.


‘Would you like to try this wine, sir?’


A man is smiling at me. He is surrounded by glass. Tiny
taster tumblers in front of him like babies.


‘No thanks,’ I call back.


‘Are you sure?’ he says, holding a tumbler of red wine
up in the air, hoping to woo me to his station of pain.


‘Yes,’ I tell him. ‘I am sure.’


A Friday night. The city's on fire. Bars. Neon Budweiser
signs. People shouting. Spilling on to the streets. The giggle
of ice cubes. Tears of a lime. Lemons. Cocktail menus.
Beer nuts. Shots of tequila. Anna and I walk into a pub.
The atmosphere makes my hair stand on end. We queue at
the bar. A gin and tonic. A ginger ale. We sit and sip our
drinks. Maybe my exile is over. Maybe it will never be
over. I've made my peace with this drinking thing, though.
Six years sober. We make a toast to the future and I get the
strongest sense that everything's going to be all right.


Sunday 19 November 2000. I tip the last of my antidepressants
into the palm of my hand. I ended up staying on

[p. <i>209</i>]

Then, a year where vodka and grapefruit juice was my
number-one drink.


Now, fifteen consecutive nights of eating pasta.


Then, six months bingeing on Colt 45.


Now, a year of tracking down first editions of Anne
Sexton's books.


Then, two years of drinking vodka and Pernod.


Now, only buying Agnes B. shirts for a year.


Then, eighteen months of Gamay and Beaujolais.


Now, weeks learning everything there is to know about
Italy.


Then, Rebel Yell on the rocks was ‘my drink’ for two
months.


Now, almost a year of only listening to hip-hop.


I am an addict. Always will be.


It's almost Christmas again. I'm still kick-boxing every
week. Going to yoga now too. Still working out at home

[p. <i>210</i>]

Up days, down days, in-between days. Days of desperate
blue. Memories. Calling me back. I have to stay strong.
And furnish the rest of my life with acceptance and hope.
It won't ever stop. This won't ever stop. This is me. We're
in it for the long run. Me and everything inside. All sweet
emotion. And bitter loss. Feelings. Beautiful blue birds.
Wings beating. Skies forgiving. Happier climes. And
soothing words. The orchestra is busy with love. And I
want to sing. Clear and loud. Love's melody. Out of tune.
Such pretty words. I wrote them for you. I wrote them all
for you.

