Transcript of Audio File:
______________________________________________________________________________
BEGIN TRANSCRIPT:
CLIENT: I don't remember where we were last time.
THERAPIST: We were talking about intimacy.
CLIENT: Oh yeah. That's right. (pause) Yeah. (pause) (sigh) I think of (pause) since our conversation have (pause) expanded my idea of what ... idea of my limited notion of what intimacy is. (pause) Um... (pause) I'm trying to (pause) be in the moment more, which I think seems to be an essential part of it. (pause) And differentiating between when I really have to be doing something else and when I don't have to be doing something else. Not just thinking about that other thing but actually having to run and do it. (pause) And (pause) also realizing that it's a two way street, I mean (pause) it's not just me having time for it, you know. So ... (pause)
THERAPIST: Does recognizing those things changed your experience of what it feels like to be in your day, to be with your wife to be with your work?
CLIENT: Can you say that again, I'm sorry.
THERAPIST: Has recognizing those things changed experience of being in your day or?
CLIENT: Well (pause) I'm not sure necessarily that I've been successful at it but have noticed it which I think is a start.
THERAPIST: A step.
CLIENT: Yeah. (pause) Although I think (pause) yeah, I mean (pause) I'm noticing the need for it but I'm also noticing the opportunities that present themselves for it. That said the successful part of it has to do with me actually being in the moment, which is exceedingly difficult for me (pause) generally.
THERAPIST: When are you successful at being present in the moment?
CLIENT: Um (pause) I guess when I'm doing music. (pause) Even when I'm reading I think I always stop after every few paragraphs and check my e-mail or something else just to have a distraction of some sort, I don't know why. (pause) But ... I think it's if I'm expecting a e-mail specifically that I'm more ...
(00:04:14)
THERAPIST: You're looking for something?
CLIENT: Yeah. (pause) But (pause) but yeah it's hard to stay focused. (pause) And (pause) I think it also depends on if I'm crunched on a deadline or not. I can seem to pull it together more under deadline.
THERAPIST: Sometimes the anxiety can bring a little bit of focus that's hiding our (inaudible_00:04:56) can pinpoint that.
CLIENT: Yeah I've noticed that. (laugh) Yeah it's spring break this week so last week was full of anxiety and focus. (chuckle)
THERAPIST: Mm-hm.
CLIENT: And (pause) yeah. (pause)
THERAPIST: How are your headaches this week? When I last saw you, you had been having a really severe headache for a few days I think.
CLIENT: No headaches this week. No headaches since the weekend even and (pause) yeah I mean (pause) I think I know when I am prone to get one. It's when I've got a day full of stuff that I really can't, you know (pause) I can't reschedule and so (pause) but I'm also this week trying to get ahead in a lot of things for the last six weeks of school which is coming up and (pause) I just want to go into it a little bit more ahead than I am. (pause) As ahead as I can be.
THERAPIST: Mm.
(00:06:29)
CLIENT: Were you going to say something?
THERAPIST: Nothing to say.
CLIENT: Okay. (pause) Sorry, I'm (pause) I woke up pretty late this morning so I'm a little foggy. I'm sure you can tell. (pause) (sigh) And I've also been ... well I think when I last you I had just bumped up maybe half way ... maybe two weeks into the addition of Wellbutrin to (inaudible_00:07:17) and I didn't notice a thing so last week I met with my psychiatrist and she doubled that and so I'm 200 (pause) You know and that was just since Saturday so I'm still (pause) (sigh) I'm kind of (pause) been feeling kind of hopeless about things (pause) have no reason too but I do and ...
THERAPIST: You say hopeless about things.
CLIENT: Well about ... well I suppose I should clarify that because it's not everything. It's (pause) it's (pause) it's my decision to do this program. It's my belief that I can step back into media relatively easily. I can do it in such a way as is in lines with my goals of moving overseas. I can do all these things. At one time I thought that and now I'm feeling like (pause) (sigh) what am I doing? What am I going to do? And it's not so much (pause) I don't think it so much has to do with me approaching the graduation as much as it is (pause) just (pause) feeling that my skills are finite and I (pause) question the feasibility of expanding them, you know? (pause)
THERAPIST: How realistic are those questions if you stop yourself and try to be objective?
CLIENT: Well (pause) I don't know because it's based on so much ... just a large lack of information that (pause) that I might able to draw and to have a more realistic (pause) evaluation and investigation.
THERAPIST: What information do you feel like you're lacking? What would you need to know to believe in yourself?
(00:10:31)
CLIENT: Well (pause) it's I'm largely untested in these other skills that I would like to obtain. And (pause) I'm (pause) I think it comes back to the writing aspect, you know? And on the one hand I'm doing a lot more writing than I ever have and getting better at it is one point. Paying attention to more things and I get better at it. That said, how much effort do I want to put into something that other people can do really well now and I've got skills that they don't have? And so (pause) where should I place my emphasis?
THERAPIST: What do you want to do?
(pause)
CLIENT: I don't know. I think it depends on the day.
THERAPIST: What do you want to do today? Do you have practice in being in the moment?
(00:12:27)
CLIENT: Um. (pause) (sigh) I don't know it seems like days when not feeling confident in myself nothing seems (pause) doable.
THERAPIST: Ah. That's a different question because you're trying to answer, "What can I do?" And the question is, "What do you want to do?"
(pause)
CLIENT: I want to feel better about myself. (pause) And (pause)
THERAPIST: If you believed you were capable what would you do?
(pause)
(00:14:15)
CLIENT: I don't know. I mean I'm not sure if this answers your question and I don't know if I brought this up in the past but (pause) you know the whole idea about the anxiety and stress around awaiting this decision on the scholarship is ... it just challenges me to think about what does it mean to me? What does it tell me? What do I want it to tell me and what does it really tell me? And what am I going to think if I don't get it? What am I going to think if I do get it? Will it change my impression of myself?
THERAPIST: Mm.
CLIENT: And I have this thought that I don't think it will change. I think again that it will be like, "Oh it's just this ambitious project that who am I kidding? I can't do and I fooled them and so on and so forth." You know? And so (pause) I'm trying to get back to your question. Oh what would I do if I thought I was capable. (pause) I guess and so what I mean by ... using that as an example, what would I do ... would I feel capable with that kind of feedback?
THERAPIST: Mm.
CLIENT: I don't think it would change what I feel I'm capable of.
THERAPIST: Right. I mean getting the Scholarship would mean that they thought you were capable.
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: But you're not going to borrow their belief? You have to come up in your own belief in yourself.
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: If you allow yourself that nobody else can convince you that you are capable.
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: Because that's not ... the question isn't really if you're capable. You are. Why wouldn't you be capable of doing whatever it is that you say you're going to do?
CLIENT: Mm-hm.
THERAPIST: The new question is whether or not you allow yourself to feel that way?
CLIENT: Feel that way or want to? I'm not sure. (pause) I think for me there's a disconnect between feeling like I can do something and feeling like I want to do it.
THERAPIST: Mm-hm.
(00:17:12)
CLIENT: It's almost like at moments when I tell myself, "See you can do this."
THERAPIST: Mm.
CLIENT: It's not like (pause) "Aren't you so happy because you want to do this?" And I can be happy from the feedback that I was successful in some venture but at the same time don't think I'm getting the (pause) you know the momentous drive that tells me that I'm on the right path.
THERAPIST: When are you happiest?
(pause)
CLIENT: I think there are two different versions of that at least. One is I'm happiest when I'm caught up. I'm not behind. I'm struggling to feel like I'm (pause) incapable.
THERAPIST: But is that happy or absence of guilt?
CLIENT: Well for me it might be the same thing. I mean, I think ... no it's the wrong answer.
THERAPIST: (laugh) I will never say there's a wrong answer.
CLIENT: She's shaking her head.
THERAPIST: (laugh) Those are not the same thing. Absence of guilt feels good.
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: That's relief.
CLIENT: Yeah. But it's not happiness? That's true. I mean when I think about it, yeah. It ...
(00:19:09)
THERAPIST: Think about ... and the reason I'm saying that they're not the same thing is because happy is a primary emotion. You can look at a snapshot and say that person's happy, that expresses happiness. Any culture, doesn't matter. They recognize that smile. We all know why the Mona Lisa is so famous. It doesn't match up, right her eyes and her face?
CLIENT: Mm-hm.
THERAPIST: Everybody recognizes that, doesn't matter where you come from. Because it's not an accurate expression.
CLIENT: Mm-hm.
THERAPIST: What does absence of guilt look like? If that's not a snapshot then we say, "Oh that person doesn't feel guilty anymore."
CLIENT: (laugh)
THERAPIST: And that's why they're different.
CLIENT: Yeah. Well I think (pause) it's true and you know actually this might also be absence of guilt but it seems to me like when I'm taking care myself (pause) and that means, you know, go to the (inaudible_00:20:13). It means (pause) it means going to DVG and putting into practice the things I've learned there. It means playing music and (pause) that said, I'm not sure (pause) if the music element of that has a larger impact on my happiness than just taking care of myself. I mean it has its (pause) you know psychological benefits. And also has real (pause) it just gives me joy.
THERAPIST: That, what you just connected to right there, you said it gives me joy. That to me sounds like happiness.
CLIENT: (laugh) Yes.
THERAPIST: Different than ... because it sounds like when you're thinking about, like when you can cross certain things off the list like, "I went to DVG. I practiced the skills. I played music." That's kind of like after the fact. You look at that and say, "Oh I feel good."
CLIENT: Mm-hm.
THERAPIST: Versus this feeling of ... that you capture for minute there that gives me joy. Last night we looked at the taller sheet and did a lot of things that you consider good. That you felt something in the moment. Whether that was because you were playing or because you were, you know?
CLIENT: Mm-hm.
THERAPIST: Because you just got done with a workout and you actually felt that euphoria of feeling good.
(00:21:48)
CLIENT: Mm-hm. Well you know and you know when you originally asked me the question, "When am I most happy?" I immediately thought of music but I mean I had a real hard time in the past week discuss to a degree with (pause) with the idea that I would pursue music in someway that is inline with what I want to do. I mean if that makes sense. Is music what I want to do? (pause) And it's almost like I've been told and my own internal joy factory is telling me that's what I would like to do. And in some ways in regard the possible of not getting the Scholarship as a message telling me, "You don't want to do this because what you really want to do is something entirely different." And until I realize that, that's what I'm telling myself, until I realize that I'm not going to be happy. I'm not going to be (pause) feeling like I'm doing what I should be doing. (pause) And I'm ... then again if I don't do what I've (pause) planned out way back when I (pause) ...
THERAPIST: That being more the media?
CLIENT: Yeah all that stuff, you know? Developing new skills and all that. (sigh)
THERAPIST: You have a very different look on your face when you say that verses thinking about music.
CLIENT: Yeah, well it's, it's really hard. I mean everything I've done in the past few years has stretched me so much. I mean the Hebrew alone, you know, I'm doing really well with it and learning a language at my age is not easy but none the less I fear just walking out of here without any application left. And just totally losing it.
(00:24:19)
THERAPIST: Mm-hm.
CLIENT: And then I'm like, "Well what did I do that for?" And in a way I feel like that could be the whole plan of this media idea as me walking away from it and be like losing all that. And say what did I do that for?
THERAPIST: Mm-hm.
CLIENT: And so I feel like I've got this investment in this but I don't want to cash out on. (pause) And yet how long will I, there's two things I want to say. One is, how long will I continue to live in this cage if that's the way it really is. Secondly, is all of this attitude toward this topic at all impacted by my being depressed, you know? I don't know how to regard each of these things rationally. Does that make sense?
THERAPIST: How do you think that the depression impacts your decision-making?
(pause)
CLIENT: Well I think it pushes me down the road of you know whatever the best to do. I mean (pause) albeit with trepidation and (pause) I don't want to say dread but it's just not excitement, you know? (pause) And I don't know. You know I talk about risks I've taken in the past. Risks I'm proud of and yet ...
THERAPIST: This is a risk you're really shying away from.
(00:26:26)
CLIENT: This is and I don't ... it's like I don't have ... I mean the risks I've taken leaving a career and things like that. Those were calculated in such a way as I knew that the risk of failing was small. (pause) This, the risk of ... and I'm not sure what failing is in this. But it seems like it's so great that it's incalculable.
THERAPIST: But you don't know what it is? That's really big.
CLIENT: It's huge. It is. And it's like, "Well okay." So I have no idea of what I want to do.
THERAPIST: Mm. So what would failure be? How would you know you failed?
CLIENT: Well (pause) and that's just it, I don't think I have any idea so therefore that which is unnamed remains this huge mysterious entity, you know?
THERAPIST: Maybe we need to figure out the name. Is failure not being happy? Is failure not making a certain amount of money? Is failure not having a certain amount of esteem amongst your peers?
CLIENT: Or is failure so much the last one? Going into this, abandoning the things that I said I was going to do and ...
THERAPIST: Said to who?
CLIENT: Hm?
THERAPIST: Said to who?
CLIENT: Well, I mean ...
THERAPIST: You say that a lot., I said I was going to do it.
CLIENT: Well I said I'm going to Divinity School and I'm going to this degree and a go back into media; all these things. I've said them to various people. But really I mean this degree, you know? I said I was going to (cross talk) and almost done with it and so if I go do something like music (pause) and I don't achieve the same success that I had in media in terms of money and recognition and all that ... if success is only measured in those terms will I be a failure? If I think of success as am I happy (pause) my only guess could be yes, I would be happy. But am I willing to take a risk on my own happiness? (pause) I have no idea.
(00:29:21)
THERAPIST: Would you like to be happy if it's not the same of looking outside success? Like if you just determine success as the financial piece and the esteem piece. What if you're happy but not as financially successful?
CLIENT: Well I don't know because I've never that happy.
THERAPIST: Mm.
CLIENT: And so I don't know what happy Bryce would do, how I would approach life differently than (pause) not feeling guilty Bryce, you know? (pause) I just don't know.
(pause)
THERAPIST: Cool thing about being really happy is you don't feel guilty either.
(pause)
CLIENT: Really?
THERAPIST: If you're happy it's hard to feel guilty.
(pause)
CLIENT: I'll have to take your word for it. (chuckle) I don't know. I mean ...
THERAPIST: Guilt is a feeling that happens when we're not really present in the moment. One of those things that kind of happens after (pause) when you feel guilty in the (inaudible_00:30:55). That happiness is such a present centered in the moment engaged feeling. It's hard to be in the moment and not in the moment at the same time.
(pause)
(00:31:11)
CLIENT: I don't know how to (pause) make my happiness a priority. I try to imagine my classmates for example. Come to class, unprepared, and it's as if it doesn't matter, you know? (pause) I don't know how to look at it that way. I mean, I should have booked two hours today but ...
THERAPIST: (laugh)
CLIENT: It's like (pause) I'm such a slave to what (pause) is the right way to do things and what is the, you know doing what you're supposed to do, doing what you say you're going to do, being a person of your word. And ...
THERAPIST: Your weighed expectations.
CLIENT: Weighed, yeah. Yeah they are. (pause) And yet I sign up for them all the time, you know? I sign on and say, "Yes, I will do that." And when I don't do that I feel guilty.
THERAPIST: Mm-hm.
CLIENT: And ...
THERAPIST: Like you feel ... I guess it's a hard question to imagine but would feel guilty if you didn't signup in the first place?
CLIENT: Well, yeah of course. I can't win.
THERAPIST: (laugh)
CLIENT: (laugh) (pause)
THERAPIST: Why do you stop yourself from being happy? You could win, you're not letting yourself.
(00:33:18)
CLIENT: (sigh) That's the biggest mystery of all, I don't know. (pause) (sigh) It maybe that because I can't remember being happy, that I'm not sure what I'm missing.
THERAPIST: Mm-hm.
CLIENT: But I'd also be a little suspect of my (inaudible_00:34:00) that says I've not been happy. Because I just ... I can't imagine.
THERAPIST: Mm-hm.
CLIENT: And there have been glimpses I'm sure.
THERAPIST: Well immediately what came mind for me right when you said that was, I wonder if you're going to happen to ... that feeling, I think it was last fall, some warm time of year, fall, spring, or summer when you were playing soccer.
CLIENT: Mm.
THERAPIST: I think you had glimpses because I remember you coming back in and like either you were nervous to go and but you went and there were glimpses in playing that were fun I think.
CLIENT: Well the thing about that is it goes back to (pause) me telling myself that I can't do something and realize that I can't. And (pause) define the impulse to not go and not see if I can do it and not see if I might have fun. (pause) Is I think the test and to go, show up, not fail miserably, and to come home, you know bloodless is success, you know? And which is again different than ...
THERAPIST: Yeah it's kind of proud of yourself for having gone and done that.
CLIENT: Yeah, exactly.
THERAPIST: It's a good feeling for not being proud of yourself.
CLIENT: Yeah. But it's also being not guilty because I didn't not go.
THERAPIST: Right.
CLIENT: You know?
THERAPIST: It's not really that ... I mean when I think of care I have ... I'm saying three words at once. When I think of happy, I think of a carefree light feeling, not a lot of thought in it.
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: But like proud of yourself for just the thought. It's not as light feeling as true, pure happiness.
CLIENT: It's not joy. It's (pause) it's a formula that you come to the end and say, "Yes I guess I am happy now." But when I think of soccer today (pause) I kind of shutter because I'm no better than I was. I remember it being a stressful experience from time to time. And that's my overall impression of it. (pause) However, what I thought you were going to say was when I went fishing.
THERAPIST: That was my next thing.
(00:36:35)
CLIENT: (laugh)
THERAPIST: (laugh)
CLIENT: And you know that was fun and it was one of those things that was in my control. I was the one scheduling. Whereas the soccer was somebody asking, "Do you want to play?" Where the fishing thing, you know I kind of drove that even though my tendency is to not ... is to put it off saying, "Well I'll do that someday." I'll you know, I'll whatever, you know? I'll schedule it eventually. And that was fun. It was, you know (pause) I don't know. I mean is there a difference a team sport verses an individual thing? I don't know. Am I feeling guilty for doing ...?
THERAPIST: The piece that set out to me was performance. The soccer, you still feel it necessary to somehow measure performance. Because when you're talking about, when I think about it now, I think I'm not any better than I was as if you know there's some training regime going on that you're supposed to getting better. But I don't hear that about going out in the boat and going fishing. You didn't count how many fish you got. There didn't seem like there was an expectation of somehow you're going to you know ... I know nothing about fishing. Improve your cast. (laugh)
CLIENT: That's good enough. Yeah, no, exactly.
THERAPIST: But there's, you know you didn't put this performance aspect on that you somehow had to like earn your ability to do it.
CLIENT: Yeah, that's true.
THERAPIST: And I think that maybe is a piece of it because being in the moment you're not analyzing how you're doing. You're just enjoying it.
CLIENT: Yeah. Yeah it's an interesting point because when I think about music ... when I go play with my brothers I'm a little stressed out because I didn't get any better and so when I do music by myself, that's it's more enjoyable. When I go fishing it's not like you're really teaming up to catch this beautiful fish together, you know? It's a you know ... single operator. But it's an interesting (pause) comparison between music as a group as compared to soccer and music as an individual as compared to fishing. And how do I forge them and how can I apply the way I approach the one to another.
(00:39:10)
THERAPIST: Well and you don't necessarily ... you don't have to find a way in everything. That's okay. I guess that sounds like ... it's a really big goal trying to do it everything.
CLIENT: Yeah, I know.
THERAPIST: But being able to connect to what is joyful for you that I do think is something that you do need. You need to have ways in your own life to be joyful. I mean that's part of what not being depressed is, is being able to experience joy.
CLIENT: Mm-hm.
THERAPIST: I don't think in order to not feel depressed you need to find the joy in everything.
CLIENT: True but if I (pause) if I have the option doing these things, soccer, whatever.
THERAPIST: Mm-hm.
CLIENT: I should (pause) why do it if you're not going to enjoy it, you know? That to me seems like ... and I understand what you're saying. I'm not going to find joy walking the dog necessarily. But (pause) is my time better spent doing something that is joyful than doing something that is stressful or anxiety inducing?
THERAPIST: Probably, right?
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: That seems.
CLIENT: It seems obvious now.
THERAPIST: (laugh)
CLIENT: But (pause) I don't know. I mean I ...
THERAPIST: There are certainly ways to find some ... like there maybe ways to make it more enjoyable than learning lessons from what you liked about one thing to the other. Because you could even find moments of joy walking the dog. It's probably a lot nicer in daylight today than on some other day.
CLIENT: Well (pause) I think it comes down to what I expect of myself. And I can go out fishing all day and not catch a thing and be happy, you know? (pause) (sigh) I can play music in my room for several hours and be happy without ever having produced anything. You know it's always more fun if I do catch and if I do you know produce ...
THERAPIST: But you can enjoy the experience ...
CLIENT: Yes.
THERAPIST: And that's really important to tap into. So you have that, you can do that.
CLIENT: And (inaudible_00:41:36) such a hug time. But (pause) why I don't (pause) go into the music room is because I put too many expectations on it. I said, "Well I don't really, you know have something I'm working on. It's just going to be a one off. It's just going ... there's no point to it." And ...
THERAPIST: Because happiness isn't a point.
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: Not letting yourself value that in a way that you value something that's measurable.
(00:42:13)
CLIENT: Mm-hm.
THERAPIST: Or we should. Being happy is actually really important. That is the point.
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: And I can say that nine hundred and seven times but until you allow yourself to believe that happiness is a legitimate point to being alive (pause) it's not going to really mean much. (pause) Allowing yourself to be happy in your life (pause) doesn't necessarily undo some of the other things that you do with your life. It's not going to make impossible to be successful in other ways too. And I wonder if that's part of the fear that if you allowed yourself to be driven more by what makes you happy, by what brings joy that somehow this other stuff that you've done that feels more legitimate would somehow all disappear.
CLIENT: Mm-hm. There's a few.
THERAPIST: Those two ends seem really far apart to me. I think there's room for them both to be there without it going to this place where you're purely driven by desire and don't have room for any of these other things that you deemed important.
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: We can exist with both.
CLIENT: Yeah I guess. It's just that I haven't and it seems again (pause) again the expectation machine in my head is just working overtime and I think, "Well I haven't done it so it can't be done." You know?
THERAPIST: Mm.
CLIENT: But there have been times when I have done it. I've just not sustained them and haven't (pause) I haven't (pause) realized the importance of that happiness enough to make it.
THERAPIST: Mm. To make it worth the risk to take a chance that you could sustain it and that life wouldn't fall apart.
CLIENT: Yeah. Or that (pause) that it truly is a source of happiness for me and should be without expectations and requirements. I don't say when I go fishing that I have to come home with five fish. I'm never coming home, you know until midnight. I don't do that and yet I still go fishing.
THERAPIST: Mm-hm.
CLIENT: So you've given me a lot to think about between fishing and music.
THERAPIST: Actually I'm going to ask you not to think.
CLIENT: Mm-hm. Alright.
(00:45:22)
THERAPIST: Instead to go back out into your world and practice being more present in the moment. You can think again about the stuff when you come back in next. But you've done a lot by thinking about it but now I want you to practice being in the moment because it's connected. You can't be happy unless you're in the moment so we need to practice that too. I need you to practice that.
CLIENT: That's something that I'm struggling with just because (pause) I know ... especially this spring break. Trying to get a lot of stuff done. I'm feeling like I'm on track with it but at the same time I want to make sure I have fun. (laugh)
THERAPIST: Mm-hm.
CLIENT: And (sigh) if I don't have fun I'm going to be really bummed out, you know?
THERAPIST: Well being in the moment isn't going to get in the way of either of those things. And it doesn't have to be something that you do all day long. It's finding points during the day where you allow yourself to be aware and very mindful of what are you doing at this very moment. So it doesn't have to add ... you don't have to add anything in, it just means as you walk from here to wherever you're going next at one point in that walk I want you to be mindful of where you are. What does the air feel like? What do you see right in front of you? What does the ground sound like as you make your next step? That's being mindful of the moment; engage the moment. If you take, literally five seconds to be aware of that walk then you've done, you've practiced.
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: And then, you know if you're eating dinner tonight and take part of that meal to be quiet and focus on yourself, what does this taste like? What is this texture? Is it what I'm in the mood for? That's it.
CLIENT: I'm hearing you and what I'm bringing up here is the lesson from DVG that I'm supposed to do and this is probably what you're talking about. Every night since Wednesday I have had to write down three things at the end of the day where they were good things that I noticed and found.
THERAPIST: Very similar practice, absolutely.
(00:47:37)
CLIENT: This one and see here. And try this one. Notice the moon, it was really big that night. Relaxed and watched a movie, had a good presentation. Some of those things are really in the moment, but.
THERAPIST: Noticed the moon is exactly what they're talking about.
CLIENT: Yeah. The next day ...
THERAPIST: Thursday night?
CLIENT: It was Wednesday night, yeah. I got out of DVG and you know the moon was just like wow and I sat there and watched it for a while in (inaudible_00:48:02) square.
THERAPIST: Perfect. That's awesome.
CLIENT: Noticed the birds and enjoyed a conversation, relaxed. Birds. Notice this one.
THERAPIST: So it coincides beautifully.
CLIENT: Showed up for class was the next day.
THERAPIST: But you did.
CLIENT: Was a struggle but I was there. So I know that ends soon but I'm ... all right.
THERAPIST: So combine your DVG homework with what I just said because it's very much working on the same things and that's you know in some ways that's all you have to do. You think in other ways that that's hard. (laugh)
CLIENT: It's difficult, it really is. I mean, you know I just ... I need more practice at it apparently and I've got all the time in the world. (laugh)
THERAPIST: You know if you can notice three things that's a lot of practice in a day over and over. You've got lots of days left to do it.
CLIENT: Yeah, yeah. All right.
THERAPIST: Why don't we stop there. We have scheduled for next week same time.
CLIENT: Yeah, you know I wonder Tuesday are ...
END TRANSCRIPT
