Transcript of Audio File:
______________________________________________________________________________
BEGIN TRANSCRIPT:
CLIENT: So I went home yesterday and I was truly sad for about six hours. That's a good thing, I think. After a while it kind of felt like I just kind of emptied out but in a not bad way. So I kind of cheered up and I talked with Franco a lot and I talked with James a lot and I tried to explain to James what we talked about yesterday. And he really got it which I was happy about. I kind of wasn't expecting him to or I was afraid of it, that I would have to make it reasonable for him. But yeah, he really got it! He said I finally sounded more like myself than I have for a while. (pause) [00:01:14]
And by the time I went to bed, it was all back. (pause) I feel like I have all of this stuff going on that I'm just not (pause) really aware of or taking in to account. So I don't know what to do now.
(silence from [00:01:47] to 00:02:07)
THERAPIST: What comes to mind?
CLIENT: I was just thinking I literally have no ideas. (chuckle) Which probably isn't true but that is what I am discussing (ph). (laughter)
THERAPIST: You're experience?
CLIENT: (chuckle) I mean, if I wait around long enough I usually do come up with another idea.
THERAPIST: Are you referring to ideas about what to do exactly or just ideas as in thoughts in your head at all period?
CLIENT: I was referring to the latter but certainly the former. (pause) I feel like I'm in a situation where all of the (pause)...you know, when I was little this is exactly what I wanted. I would just wish so hard...I would envision myself as a turtle, wishing so hard for some kind of protective carapace or something because I felt like everything just hurt so much all the time and I was hurt by things that didn't hurt other people. And I just (audio gap at 00:03:37) be feeling all of this. Now I've got it (chuckle), maybe, and it is not helpful. (chuckle)
THERAPIST: What carapace do you have in mind?
CLIENT: So about an hour and a half ago I was getting really anxious because of the wedding and I haven't (inaudible) in a while and I'm always, always desperate to see James. And we're staying with his parents and I love them and I want to treat them well but one of my best friends from high school, whom I haven't had a real conversation with in over a year, is going to be there and I bailed on her because of the depression. I've bailed on this with her twice or maybe three times, and now it's really, really a good time with her. I hadn't made arrangements to do that at all. I've just been avoiding (audio gap at 00:04:44) until because I feel like you have to choose between James and Ashley (ph). So I was avoiding it until today. I was like, "Okay, this is ridiculous." I started sending e-mails and calling people and I was just really so anxious about that and then it was just like I put it away. And I'm not anxious about it anywhere but I'm also not dealing with it right now (chuckle).
And the anxiety itself is just totally out of proportion with the kinds of things that I'm doing. Everybody is like, "Oh yeah! Of course you need to go see Ashley. Yeah, we'll make it happen." But I just feel like this giant burden. (pause) But yeah, it's like I just put it away and (pause)...
Franco laughed at me for going to extraordinary (audio gap at 00:05:55) to avoid using the term subconscious. (laughter) I told him I thought it's one of those words that probably have a precise meaning but I don't know what the precise meaning is and the way that it's used is not precise enough to (inaudible) talk about. And the guy in the self group at the clinic pissed me off. (chuckle)
I've also been avoiding thinking about myself in terms of repressing emotion purely because the guy in the clinic pissed me off. (laughter) (pause) But now that I'm kind of thinking about it I'd say, "Well, I was right when I told him that I didn't know what he was talking about," because most of this has started coming up since then, like this feeling like I just put things, take them and just put them away and then go do something else. Man, I would do anything to be able to do that. (chuckle) [00:07:07]
THERAPIST: Yeah, no kidding. (pause) You'd be upset at her I think all the time?
CLIENT: All the time, every day. (pause) I didn't have any way of distinguishing what had to do with me and what didn't have to do with me and so I just thought everything had to do with me. So there were a lot of times when I was actively bullied or rejected by classmates. There were a lot of times when I was just ignored by classmates and I took that as an act of rejection. And so anything that they did that left me out just hurt so much. I would get constantly in trouble with teachers because I never did my homework and that being school, that just hurt so much. I couldn't stop crying. I didn't know how not to cry. (pause) It was like a... [as if I was] (ph) a slug or a snail.
THERAPIST: (inaudible)
(silence from [00:08:47] to 00:09:08)
CLIENT: I don't know but (pause) I feel like all of the way that I have of dealing with my problems aren't applicable in the same way here so I just don't know what to do. Like I said, I just kind of throw my brain at it over and over and over again.
THERAPIST: Like you mean...?
CLIENT: (pause) Well it's the fact that thinking, "Hooray!" I've succeeded in making myself not feel as sad but I'm still feeling as sad I'm just not (pause)...my mind and my emotions and...I'm still preoccupied with all of these things. I'm just not with it. (pause) Not a good solution. (pause) And if you take it out and look at it then it's too much for me. [00:10:31]
(pause) I don't know, I hurt so much when I was little but I never wanted to die it seemed like. This suicidal thing is really new. I mean it's just another (inaudible). I don't know.
(silence from [00:11:02] to 00:11:50)
THERAPIST: Who knows?
CLIENT: (chuckle) I don't know. I don't know. (pause) I didn't want to self-injure yesterday at all which is another good (ph) point. That was interesting. And not very much. Mostly I was just very sad and make it my own. (pause) Yeah, I did actually end up having a really good evening, like genuinely good. That was nice. Franco is a really good person. He's really taking care of me and I don't really know what to do with that. (chuckle) Yeah, and (inaudible) but he's not somebody who cannot find it easy to let other people take care of him. But my being here, I think it's good for him. Maybe I'm just telling myself that. [00:13:47]
THERAPIST: Maybe not?
CLIENT: (pause) I also feel like everybody I love's lives' are kind of going to hell around me and there's nothing I can do about it. My sister's terrified that she'll get fired.
THERAPIST: What does she do?
CLIENT: She's a counselor. She's only been working there for like six months and it was a big deal for her to get the job. Basically she's been stuck in depression, paralyzing depression, for like two years and she's been nominally in this graduate program in artistry but she just cannot for the life of her write her master's thesis. That's all she needed to do and she just couldn't write that 40 page paper and I had no idea, but now I know why she couldn't write it. And generally she just got it together enough to say, "Okay, now you need to make a change. This is something I could do really well." And she's really, really good at some parts of it but she's...I mean, my (chuckle)... (inaudible) last night reading up on the proposed changes to the DSM V just because Franco told me, "Oh this is fun!" (chuckle) [00:15:21]
But she's probably bipolar too, definitely has ADHD, not in treatment for either of those. She was in a lot of treatment for them as a child and it wasn't very effective and it left her feeling really badly toward the mental health profession. I think she had a lot of people knew despite what she needed and wanted. And it just didn't really work so (pause) she's kind of asking me for support on this and she's very good about when I say, "Look at...I'm feeling like crap today. I can't deal with this," about not making me deal with it. And I help her when I can but it's like (pause) I've told her enough times like, "Really I think that you should try being in treatment," that I just can't tell her anymore. She's either going to hear it or she's not. And it's not like I can really point to my own last year and a half and say, "Oh yes! All this treatment has been so effective!" (laughter) [00:16:48]
THERAPIST: Everything is just so awesome! (laughter)
CLIENT: (laughter) And so she's just not...so there are parts of her, Kyle (ph), that are just not doing well and I can't tell whether she's actually going to get better or not because I only get it from her. I do know that the kids love her and that she loves them and that she's really, really good at being both the adult in the situation who lets the children be the children and who is playful and child-like with them but at the same time is able to say, "Okay no, we're not going to do that," in a way that doesn't shut them done. Athena's (ph) got this incredible gift with teenagers and incredible theological gifts too. Like she's very...most counselors tend to be real young, only last for a couple years, often end up being in the process of coordination. [00:18:14]
THERAPIST: It's like something they do between college (ph) and grad school for that.
CLIENT: Yeah and this is something that's what's for her and I think in that sense, they are really lucky to have her. But same for me, it's like, she can't do budgeting for paperwork, she's got to do it. But I can't do anything about that.
And then Franco and his fiancé are fighting...anything about that. They're fighting about me except it's not about me. Sascha has historically been very jealous and jealous of me which is (pause) on some level is really reasonable because when we were in college Franco and I were very, very intimate but not together.
THERAPIST: Like emotionally intimate? [00:19:17]
CLIENT: Emotionally intimate and spent a lot of time together. So yeah if Sascha is going to be jealous of somebody I'm the person that she would be jealous of. Sascha and I are actually friends. I think we each have more affection for the other than is really expressed in our actually correspondence. It's more like we already both have a lot of (audio gap) got time for another really close friend, or at least I don't right now.
THERAPIST: But you feel a lot for each other.
CLIENT: Yeah and I feel like I really get her the same way that Franco doesn't. She's OCD and pretty severe depression and anxiety.
THERAPIST: Is she also in graduate school?
CLIENT: Yes, she's at Ithaca. She hates Ithaca with a fiery passion. Ithaca's programs are not very good (chuckle) or their support network is not very good and the environment...she's in graduate school. She's getting her PhD psych and her environment is so incredibly hostile toward her as someone with problems, mental issues.
THERAPIST: That's terrible. [00:20:37]
CLIENT: But the shit she pulls...like I would break up with her. I think that Franco should. I know that Franco won't but also in some ways he isn't...I feel like I see these dynamics but I can't be involved in them but I happen to be at the center of this conflict because I really need Franco and I really need to be staying with him to be safe (crying) and it's not okay with Sascha that I'm there. And for a while it really was and when I first said I'm going to go stay there for a week, (pause) she kind of had said...like I had come up to ask if I could spend some time with him when I was visiting Boston and he had to say, "Sascha's not really comfortable with that." And I'm like, "Okay that's totally cool, not a big deal." But then there's a situation where I really needed this and Sascha was like, "Yeah, absolutely, it's fine. She can stay. It's not a problem." [00:21:45]
THERAPIST: Is that the reason why you and I had talked about you staying or is this a while ago?
CLIENT: This is a (audio gap).
THERAPIST: Okay
CLIENT: And somehow I...basically now she feels like when I'm in the apartment somehow I have a window into her and Franco's relationship that I shouldn't have. Like their relationship can't be private or...and all of this by the way (audio gap) Franco telling me about this conversation that he was not supposed to tell me about. (laughter) He just doesn't know what to do and he needs someone to bitch to. (laughter)
But really it's about Sascha just being...just not trusting that she's closer to Franco than anybody else. She just doesn't trust that. I don't know the reason I think that other than really privilege (ph) their relationship when I'm around them, which I do.
THERAPIST: Of which...though as much as you can do I imagine it really doesn't go that far.
CLIENT: No, no. She's not (audio gap at 00:23:08). She's not grounded in reality, in her anxieties, and in the way that she lashes out at Franco as somebody who doesn't respond well to argument. So he deals well with me because I said, "This is not rational. But this is..." (audio gap) And Sascha can't say that I know the personal part. Or I don't know if whether she can't say it or if whether she's not aware of it but it's much harder for her to realize that (pause) what she's doing isn't rational.
THERAPIST: Yet when she's caught up in it that way she doesn't have that perspective of how she's being.
CLIENT: Yeah, so a couple of times I've been able to say to Franco, "Okay, well if I were Sascha, this is what I would be feeling." And I think he's found that helpful but (pause) I can't do that right now. I can't do that when they're fighting about me. It's a thing that I can't talk about and I already feel so anxious about being there (crying) because I feel so badly about needing to be there to be taken care of. (pause) And I worry about them because I love them and I want them to be happy and they're not happy right now. You know, when I worry about James when James gets depressed and I can't fix that. (crying)
THERAPIST: (pause) It is a tough world for slugs. [00:25:10]
CLIENT: (laughter) Yes! (pause) But like I haven't been...(pause) Yeah. (pause) I just want to take care of them so much. (crying) You know, I've been sensible enough to know what I can do and what I can't do but I'm not sensible enough to feel what I can do and what I can't do and so...(pause) Literally all of my closest friends are depressed except for Jerry. I think she's in a good phase right now. (laughter). You might wonder about selection biasy (ph) her. (laughter) If there were an Olympics of suffering right now I'd get the gold star but that doesn't help. (pause) So how do I ask for help from the support network that in itself is struggling and take care of them too? [00:26:49]
THERAPIST: Well it sounds like...(pause) I imagine it's just really hard to know how much [that Sascha knows about her] (ph) suffering.
CLIENT: Yeah. (pause)
THERAPIST: I mean there's just not a whole lot that you can do. You can (audio gap) but it may be frustrating to understand some things about what's going on, if you then can't do something to be helpful, but I would imagine certainly with your helplessness. But yeah again, to me it sounds like the main thing is (pause) how hard it is to see. I mean how painful it is to see. [00:28:02]
CLIENT: Yeah and I just feel so bad about being where I am. (pause) I've just pulled back from my friends in the last few months. I just haven't been with people as much. And most of it (crying)...I tend to have friends who are close enough that they really understand and they'll be right there waiting when I'm ready to come back or friends who are casual enough that they kind of don't this and they'll just see me when I come back, if that makes sense. (pause)
THERAPIST: I guess I sort of get the feeling that you are hoping I will say something to make it feel better.
CLIENT: (chuckle) I mean, that would always be nice but I don't think there is anything. (laughter)
THERAPIST: At the moment but I kind of have this impression that (pause) there's something that could be figured out or some perspective that would soften this some way. [00:29:37]
CLIENT: Well I always feel like there has to be something that could be fake (ph) that I'm just not seeing. (pause) I guess this is the whole (pause) point of any one of the ideas of mindfulness is just to say no, it is what it is.
THERAPIST: That wasn't how I was thinking of (inaudible) (laughter) But you may be right. (laughter)
CLIENT: I don't think I really have a good grasp on what is (inaudible) either. (laughter)
THERAPIST: (pause) I don't know, maybe it's a fantasy about what (pause) you're intellect or somebody else's can do about all this. (pause) I'm not saying thinking about things can't help. Not at all, but (pause) maybe it's part of the carpus (ph) I guess is what I'm saying.
CLIENT: Maybe it's part of the what? Carpus (ph)?
THERAPIST: Yeah. [00:31:21]
CLIENT: Definitely. (pause) Yeah, so when I try to say...but so I guess what I'm trying to do now is (pause) like right now, what I'm trying to do.
THERAPIST: How do you feel?
CLIENT: I don't know how to bear it.
THERAPIST: Bear what?
CLIENT: I just (audio gap).
THERAPIST: How?
CLIENT: I can't do anything. (crying)
THERAPIST: About what?
CLIENT: I can't...everybody's hurting and I'm hurting and I can't help anybody else. (crying) It's just there. (pause)
THERAPIST: Is there more (inaudible at 00:32:34)?
CLIENT: (chuckle) (pause) I mean...I just...you know, we talk about...I guess grief is the most emotion (inaudible) although it's not grief or something but I just...(pause). I just don't (audio gap). I see her and she looks so bad and knowing that people that I love are also feeling so bad and (pause) thinking that I've done what I can and there's nothing else I can do but just sit here and feel bad. (pause) This is the mood where I (pause) end up just going and sitting down and if there's somebody around to help me, make me eat things and if there's not I just don't do anything. I don't know how to function like this. I don't want to function. [00:34:30]
THERAPIST: It sounds like you just got stuck.
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: You can't bear the grief but you can't get away from it either. (pause) I guess you're saying it's partly what you're going through and partly for what (inaudible) to?
CLIENT: Yeah. If I weren't where I am, I could (pause)... it would hurt me less that other people were hurting. It would still really hurt but I could handle it. Some day (audio gap) that I feel like it's my...like I need to help them.
(silence from [00:35:50] to 00:37:31)
CLIENT: (crying) (inaudible) it just doesn't help.
(silence from [00:37:33] to 00:38:11)
CLIENT: (inaudible) so angry with myself. Why can't I fix it? I can't do this. (crying) I need help, not to (inaudible), function. I can get to where I can function but why? That's worse. (crying) (pause) This is it, yeah.
THERAPIST: You're feeling really awful, really terrible, you don't understand it all that well, but we understand very important things about it. (pause) Thinking about it doesn't help in a negative way. It's a sort of distraction sometimes and (pause) you feel pretty completely helpless.
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: That's what you're going through and at moments, other people.
(silence from [00:39:45] to 00:40:36)
THERAPIST: And I guess (pause) there are moments where you can sort of put things away a little bit. Other of them where you can't put them away (audio gap) on pause or something, you're stuck. Or other moments where you're in the throes of it and you're crushed or really upset. (pause)
CLIENT: Yeah. It's good to just sit here and be sad. I don't think I'm going to run out of it anytime soon so you might get bored. (chuckle)
THERAPIST: Maybe, maybe not. (chuckle) (pause) Yeah that's what helps if it helps, or if that's kind of what's honest in a way, or what's most immediate.
CLIENT: (pause) That's all I know how to do.
THERAPIST: (pause) (inaudible) helpless and pretty small.
CLIENT: Well I always feel pretty.
THERAPIST: Won't you stop for now but call me at 2, I'll be around, otherwise, I'll [see how you're doing] (ph).
CLIENT: Okay, thanks. [00:42:48]
END TRANSCRIPT
