TRANSCRIPT OF AUDIO FILE:
______________________________________________________________________________
BEGIN TRANSCRIPT:
THERAPIST: Good morning.
CLIENT: Good morning.
THERAPIST: So this time works consistently for me if it's good for you. I know there's a while where it didn't work for me. But if does still work for you, it does still work for me.
CLIENT: I'm good. (chuckling) It's warm. (chuckling) It's me. (pause) So I'm a little out of it after having stayed up too late to watch election stuff to see the results coming in. (pause) Yea I guess—I guess I'm more—especially back here than I was before since I just left each time I came back. [00:01:04] Currently, I have plans to leave in the near future unfortunately. (chuckling) 
THERAPIST: I see. 
CLIENT: It hasn't gone super smoothly. I guess the last time—I had only seen Sue once here until this week. And we just talked really weirdly. But this time when I saw her, she always expects me to be somewhat happy about coming back. And I just—I never am. And it's—the longer you know someone, the harder it is to fake enthusiasm about things.
THERAPIST: Yep. [00:02:02] 
CLIENT: And I just—I couldn't do it. (chuckling) And I was sick. I got sick in D.C. and then I got better in the last day. And then I came here and I got sick again with something different. Now I'm like pretty much better. It was just a cold or something but—
THERAPIST: Yea. 
CLIENT: (chuckling) Then I got sick in Kentucky. Like ever since leaving Texas, I'm getting sick with like a different thing every week.
THERAPIST: Oh gosh.
CLIENT: And having mono, it's like—because it was just like being sick for four months.
THERAPIST: Yea. 
CLIENT: But now I've been sick for a month with like a (inaudible at 00:02:41) in there. (chuckling) 
THERAPIST: Right.
CLIENT: All this moving around and coming up here just makes me sick all the time. (pause) So I was sick and I had a lot of work to do and I just really wasn't thrilled. And I was really nervous because coming back in January and hearing about Sue's (sp) perspective stress for hours and days, just really I guess made a bigger impact on me than I sort of hoped it would. [00:03:16] And every time I come back, I'm like, "Oh God. Please don't let Sue be having some issue that she wants to talk about." (chuckling) 
THERAPIST: Yea. 
CLIENT: So I'm just always really nervous about seeing her which makes it hard to be super friendly. (chuckling) So I'm always trying to scope out like, "Oh God, like is something going to be wrong?" (chuckling) And so, I sort of have a cold. And I feel like—I saw her a couple of more times and it was also a little bit cold. And then she stops talking to me. [00:04:03] (chuckling) And stops saying—I would sort of say hello and she wouldn't say hello back. And now we're not speaking. (chuckling) So, I mean that's sort of weird. 
THERAPIST: Is it better?
CLIENT: Kind of, but it makes me fear that there's going to be some explosive talk about it which I don't want to have really. And I also feel like it's a bit much on her part to not even say hello. It's an overreaction since I at least will always say hello.
THERAPIST: Right.
CLIENT: (chuckling) I would not want to say much more than that. But—
THERAPIST: I see.
CLIENT: —I think hello is sort of a nice thing in a living situation to say. (chuckling) 
THERAPIST: I see. So you want congeniality and a spare amount of distance. [00:05:00] And she seems angry.
CLIENT: Yea. I mean, I also think very cultural. (chuckling) But that doesn't go with her (inaudible at 00:05:14). And if I weren't so mad at her from residual things from the past, I would be sort of upset that she was so quick to stop talking to me. And then I have no idea why. I don't know if it's because I'm being cold or because I did something that bothered her or if she thinks I did some e-mail (ph). I have no way of knowing of what's actually going on. But I wouldn't think that it would be that surprising that after having a breakdown that forced me to go home to Texas for a while that I wouldn't be in a super chipper mood. Coming back (chuckling) and giving me the silent treatment. It's probably a bit much. [00:06:03] But—(pause) (crying) 
THERAPIST: I guess you seem pretty anxious and I know part of it is talking about dealing with stuff that Sue and part of it, I think, is how much you hate being around here. I just also (inaudible at 00:07:08) be here because I know it might be that it's hard to know how much you want to say about how bad things are? I don't know. I'm not quite sure.
CLIENT: Well, there are always so many ways to think about anything. I'm never wedded to one way. From week to week, it's sort of hard to know how things are going to come out. (chuckling) 
THERAPIST: I see.
CLIENT: I mean that from day to day, I see things somewhat differently. [00:08:00] I mean, I never think they're like good but (chuckling) knowing the day, view the bad changes. (pause) 
THERAPIST: So do you think that's part of what makes you worry is not really knowing kind of what to say or what's going to emerge as you talk?
CLIENT: Maybe. I mean, it can be pretty depressing to get upset as I'm talking because I think it's comforting to hold onto the ability to distance myself from what's going on. Again in the tradition, I sort of admire that. (chuckling) [00:09:01] (pause) I certainly was studying literature when I studied literature (chuckling) none of this severe American stuff. (chuckling) (pause) 
I don't know. I mean, in any given week—well, I mean, really like not much happened but then it seems like a lot has happened. In terms of thoughts and interactions and issues that have come up. (chuckling) There's always a lot going on. (chuckling) And yea, I mean, it's hard to know where to start. [00:10:00] I mean, one sort of huge possibility came up. When I was in D.C. at the bachelorette party of all places, one of the girls who is a journalist who connected me with someone who got me my last journalist—who recommended me for my last journalist job—
THERAPIST: Right. When you were living there?
CLIENT: —yea, has said that that girl has gotten in touch with her and said, "Hey like, are you going to see Sharon at the bachelorette party because Jim wants her to come interview for a job."
THERAPIST: Oh wow. Is that at the paper where you used to work?
CLIENT: At the paper where I used to work. So it would be—I don't know whether I would technically be there again. But I would be working for my old boss again reporting on private equity of all things, (chuckling) the Mitt Romney sphere.
THERAPIST: (chuckling) Right. [00:10:58] 
CLIENT: And back when I was actually doing that, I didn't like it at all. And I was pretty miserable. But I think it was a healthier environment for me because you can't obsess in the way I tend to obsess. 
THERAPIST: Right.
CLIENT: Like first of all, it was that possibility. 
THERAPIST: Right, because of your deadlines and [free hours or] (ph) something. 
CLIENT: And you're in the news room and people aren't acting like what you're doing is the most important thing in the world. (chuckling) 
THERAPIST: Like some other places you might be able to name if you thought of it thing?
CLIENT: Yea, yea. I mean, I think news is for reporters. Forget (inaudible at 00:11:45) and columnists. But news reporters don't take themselves as seriously.
THERAPIST: I see.
CLIENT: And when I was there, I always thought I was really unhealthy, just sort of the constant guzzling of information. [00:12:00] And it was frustrating to have no space for myself in my own brain. But it's also frustrating to feel sort of obligated to worship the past. And I've been very present-focused lately. And my reading has been mostly stuff from the last 20 or 30 years, which isn't like the present really. Like some of it was written before I was born. But it's still much more present.
THERAPIST: Yea. 
CLIENT: And it is pretty appealing to think about getting into journalism actually because the FEMA (ph) stuff is just really depressing. I'm probably am getting paid like $3 or $4 an hour to do it and that just hurts my feelings.
THERAPIST: Sure.
CLIENT: And makes it really difficult to make ends meet—
THERAPIST: Sure. [00:12:58] 
CLIENT: —too.
THERAPIST: Sure. (pause) So did you get in touch with the woman or not yet?
CLIENT: Yea. And she said like I think both her apartment and Jim's house were hit really hard by Sandy. And the building where the paper is was too.
THERAPIST: Wow.
CLIENT: So she said just wait to hear from Jim because things are really crazy.
THERAPIST: I see. 
CLIENT: So I have no idea whether it will pan out but—
THERAPIST: Right.
CLIENT: —I could be going back to D.C.. 
THERAPIST: Wow.
CLIENT: And there was a time when I felt really bad about breaking the lease with Sue. And that would be a really bad thing but—
THERAPIST: [Not so much.] (ph)
CLIENT: I think—I just don't think I can live with her, too stressful. So—
THERAPIST: Yea. It sounds like the thing would be being away from that probably. I mean that's the one thing that keeps you around here. [00:13:59] 
CLIENT: Yea. Yea, it's funny. Before I went to D.C., I hadn't heard anything about this job, the possibility of it. I asked him, "Would you mind if I moved to D.C. at some point, maybe even before the year is up or in the next year?" And he said, "No. It seems like you'd be happier there." So—
THERAPIST: And does he finish at the end of this year?
CLIENT: No, he has a year and a half. 
THERAPIST: Oh, OK.
CLIENT: So I was hoping he would finish at the end of this year.
THERAPIST: I see. Is this year five or year four?
CLIENT: This is year six. So he's taking longer than he planned. 
THERAPIST: Oh, OK.
CLIENT: But things are on track. So it's going to happen. He just wasted some time in the middle. (pause) So—but I mean, who knows that maybe with all damage to the building, so it took it really hard. [00:15:02] They may not be wanting to hire any people. 
THERAPIST: Yea. 
CLIENT: I was pretty surprised because they fired a bunch of people when they bought my last company. So there were times when I thought, "Oh maybe I should see about getting a job there." But it always seems like it'd be moving backwards and it would be embarrassing. And it was really unappealing. But since I was specifically sought out, it's nice to feel wanted somewhere.
THERAPIST: Sure. (pause) 
CLIENT: But yea—
THERAPIST: You're exciting about it.
CLIENT: Yea I'm really excited about it. It was really great being in D.C. for a week. And I mean, it wasn't—there were downsides. [00:16:05] I went to a party with Michelle (sp) and her housemates that like I would have loved two or three years ago but I just was really over now. And that was the sort of thing I would do a lot when I did live there. It was like—you know, go to these huge parties. And I just—it was weird. Like that that time pretension it irritated me much more than it did when I had just been immersed in it for six years straight. (chuckling) Getting away gave me some critical distance. I didn't show up as well as I used to.
THERAPIST: Which type of pretension?
CLIENT: Well, I guess more of like a lifestyle pretension because it was odd. But the type of pretension here almost seemed a little bit preferable because people are often working hard and sacrificing and ruining their lives and their health to have whatever it is they're pretentious about. [00:17:14] And—
THERAPIST: You mean usually academic?
CLIENT: Yes.
THERAPIST: Yea. 
CLIENT: At least they're miserable and suffering for it. (chuckling) But these people, I feel like they just don't necessarily work that hard for whatever superiority they feel. 
THERAPIST: I see.
CLIENT: And it's because of their cool apartment, their style, their meager bookshelves that have some popular texts (ph) on it, and their knowledge of liquor; these things that aren't really that hard to figure out.
THERAPIST: I see, yea.
CLIENT: It's like you're—I just can't be around it at your party. And there's—I mean, maybe they're just nervous around new people, who knows. [00:18:04] But that was irritating. So I think I'd have to figure out a new way to live there. It wouldn't feel like returning to my glory days or something. (chuckling) But it was really nice to be able to walk around and not feel nervous about running into someone I know as I always feel here.
THERAPIST: Right, well that's good.
CLIENT: Yea. (pause) 
THERAPIST: Because it sounds like it could be a little more stable and safer there.
CLIENT: Yea. 
THERAPIST: Without getting pulled into the some of the ways were there before? [00:19:01] 
CLIENT: Yea. I think so. I mean, being in a small place where there's so many people and absolutely terrified of running into it's just like never going to be good. Just like being outside of my apartment and being in my apartment are both extremely stressful experiences. (chuckling) 
THERAPIST: Yea. 
CLIENT: My anxiety level rises several points whenever I come back here and I'm really sick of it. (pause) 
THERAPIST: [Nervous for?] (ph) (pause) 
CLIENT: I'm nervous because today I'm getting dinner with Katie (sp) who I haven't talked to in a long time. And I haven't talked to anyone from the program other than Sue in a long time. [00:20:03] So I'm going to have to come up with some story to tell about all of this. I mean, I haven't quite figured out which one I'm going to tell. And I've also sort of like to ask her for advice about Sue since she's known Sue for years. But I'm also not sure how far I should go with that. And I'm nervous because Sue lived with me and talked to me during a time when I really wasn't talking to anyone else in this world. So if she turns against me, people could just believe whatever she says and there'll be no one to contradict it. So I really need to be careful in a way that I wish I didn't have to. So I don't know, this dinner with Katie (sp) seeming sort of momentous and stressful. [00:21:04] (chuckling) Even though like I don't—I'm sure we'll mostly just talk about her wedding planning. 
THERAPIST: I see. How come you scheduled it?
CLIENT: Because I like Katie. And I want to keep up with her and she and Chris are in D.C. a lot. 
THERAPIST: Oh.
CLIENT: I mean she's probably the person I would most want to keep up with from the program. (pause) But yea, I mean, sort of living with the consequences of all of this is one thing, but having to tell people about it is just another sort of misery. (pause) [00:22:01] 
THERAPIST: What do you think you'll tell her?
CLIENT: (crying) I mean I'll probably try to put a positive spin. And talk about being really into the novel and talk about the artist's colony. And talk about really missing journalism which isn't totally true but just as a way of making money like seems to be better for me than a lot of other (inaudible at 00:22:47). But I'll make it sound like I actually miss journalism and getting out there and investigating what's going on in the world and all that. [00:22:59] And I sort of want to say something about a psychological component because I feel like the inevitable things is people will think I'm either lazy or stupid or crazy. And I really don't want people thinking I'm lazy or stupid. Crazy is almost like not the worst of the three. I don't know. At least maybe I can—I don't know. I don't know what I want people to think. (crying) (pause) [00:24:04] 
THERAPIST: Do you know what's, though, scary about the possibilities of what people in the program would think? I mean, given that you're not going to be back in it and you most likely be out of town. What threat they'd pose?
CLIENT: I just don't want to imagine them like (inaudible at 00:24:48) and thinking I was too stupid and just didn't have the discipline necessary to do that. Because I think it was pretty obvious that I really liked literature, studying literature. [00:25:05] So I don't think anyone is thinking I didn't like the program.
THERAPIST: Why wouldn't it be as obvious that you were smart and wanting to work hard? 
CLIENT: I mean, they thought I was sort of like wild and crazy having gone to parties in D.C. and drank and tried drugs. Like they thought that was weird. 
THERAPIST: I guess I just also know that you were in classes with them. In which, I suspect you had some intelligent things to say. 
CLIENT: I didn't talk as much as I should have and I often have anxiety attacks in class. I know that sometimes my hands would be shaking under the table. I'm like, I don't know. I seemed pretty nervous. [00:25:58] 
THERAPIST: I see. So that's a big concern. You wouldn't have come across?
CLIENT: Maybe. I mean, I don't think they think I'm a total idiot because I did speak in class sometimes. But I think they think I don't have it together and I'm not disciplined and I'm sort of all over the place. 
THERAPIST: I see.
CLIENT: I would have trouble reading the wrong thing for class sometimes. And coming to the general reading having read the wrong text by the right author and I've always had that problem for some reason, or not having a pen. (chuckling) And I was pretty distracted but—[00:27:06] (pause) 
I don't know. (pause) I guess I sort of have this hope that I'll one day finish my novel and get it published. And sort of it'll be good and I can redeem myself. And I don't want all these people in the literary establishment being like, "Oh yea, that like stupid girl who didn't have it together and like disappeared." I'd rather not have that reaction come out. (pause) [00:28:01] 
THERAPIST: Sure. I guess I wonder if you—(pause) it's also partly the way of dealing with how stressful and awful things in the program often were. To focus on what they think of you or how they may judge you as a way of, in part, kind of keeping that other stuff out of your mind. Do you know what I mean? [00:29:06] 
CLIENT: Maybe. (pause) I mean, I guess it is something that I could potentially control in the future although realistically not so much. But like—
THERAPIST: Meaning what they think?
CLIENT: Yea. 
THERAPIST: I mean more like (pause) to focus on what they think takes you away from your memory or, even at the time, of your experience of being really anxious or really unhappy or overwhelmed. [00:29:58] 
CLIENT: Yea. Yea and I did become pretty obsessed with it for a long time. (pause) The experience certainly likes to restart itself. I went to the 20 percent off book sale at the Book Store with Jeff on Sunday and saw someone I knew. And escaped before he saw me but I had such a horrible anxiety attack. And I was so nervous being in the store. 
THERAPIST: Oh gosh.
CLIENT: And it was—I keep expecting that I'll be somewhat less nervous in the Square after a while but hasn't happened. I still horrible anxiety attacks in the area. (pause) [00:31:01] 
THERAPIST: I guess that being around here brings it back.
CLIENT: Yea. It does. And—
THERAPIST: Like the horrors of your time like in (inaudible at 00:31:26).
CLIENT: Yea. 
THERAPIST: [Sort of partly] (ph) due to the program and I guess partly not.
CLIENT: Yea. (pause) Even when it's like it's something in the air. I just can't get away from it when I'm here. (pause) 
THERAPIST: I think it's something in your memory has been some proximity to them here which is really scary and overwhelming sometimes. [00:32:20] 
CLIENT: Yea. It's strange that it doesn't seem to get better or evades time. (pause) 
THERAPIST: Well, (pause) I think because these kinds of things can be so scary and overwhelming, you tend to kind of seal them away pretty completely which—like things are kind of shut out but not really changing, if that makes sense. [00:33:47] 
CLIENT: Yea. I guess I thought all of the writing I do would sort of help process things. [00:33:59] But somehow anything related to here hasn't helped. 
THERAPIST: What kind of writing? You mean in your journal or do you mean—
CLIENT: Yea. 
THERAPIST: —fiction writing or—you do a lot of writing as I understand.
CLIENT: (chuckling) Yea when I write specifically about stuff here in my journal. And then I feel like whatever underlying concerns I'm having at a given time tends to come out in fiction and whatever I choose to write about. So it seems like I have a place to talk about topical issues and a place to explore more like with serious issues that might not reveal their cause. Or just to like it interacts with the way of things. So it seems like having both outlets something would start to process this. And I talked to Jeff about it and I talk about it here. [00:35:04] I don't know. I just seem to be bad at processing things. (pause) 
THERAPIST: I think you kind of talk about it here. And that's true for all of us to some extent at least in my understanding and experience. But (pause) I think some of it is very hard for you because some of the—some is so overwhelming. [00:36:20] And can really put you in a place where—and I think you're very disorganized or you can go to some pretty bad places and not so surprised when you don't want to that. [I think it's something you want to talk about, you tell your mom about it.] (ph) [00:36:59] And then you think it would have been difficult and overwhelming and scary and well it's like, "Well, I, I—." I don't know I feel like I kind of wave my hands around and fuss about this fairly often. And then I think it can be very hard for you to talk about some of the extent of the here are some of the ways that revisiting traumatic stuff or more psychotic stuff can be so awful. (pause) 
CLIENT: Kind of—it doesn't translate easily into words. So sometimes—
THERAPIST: Sure.
CLIENT: —it's a little strange to talk about it because it feels like talking around and it's hard to know it wouldn't feel that way. [00:38:05] (pause) 
THERAPIST: I would imagine some of that is sort of like difficulty in translation. And some of it is also probably, again anxiety, where even if it's unconscious, it's just really hard to kind of (inaudible at 00:38:41) because it was so awful, I think, or because there's something that's very scary to talk about. 
CLIENT: Yea, it's always nice to think of that as being in the past. It's scary to say it's not. [00:39:01] 
THERAPIST: Yea. I mean, clearly there's a lot that's better. And at least is that I understand though of your system in that you're not walking around with in the way that you were when you were in school. But I do think the sort of intense anxiety has to do with being geographically around here. And about running into people in the program does relate to a kind of fear of reawakening or re-evoking some of it. I'm not saying your symptoms will be the same but memories of what it was like and maybe some of the symptoms. [00:40:02] 
CLIENT: Yea. 
THERAPIST: We need to stop for now. But we'll talk more next week.
CLIENT: OK. I'll see you then. 
THERAPIST: All right. Take care.
CLIENT: Thank you.
THERAPIST: Thank you. 
END TRANSCRIPT
