TRANSCRIPT OF AUDIO FILE
______________________________________________________________________________
BEGIN TRANSCRIPT:
(Inaudible background conversation.)
COUNSELOR: So, let's go till 12:30.
PATIENT: Okay.
COUNSELOR: If that's good for you. Whoops.
PATIENT: (Laughs.) 
COUNSELOR: Now probably every time you write me a check, I will wonder - like, how is your (inaudible) situation. I mean, you probably think about that, too.
PATIENT: (Laughs.) Yes, I do.
COUNSELOR: Yes. 
PATIENT: It's the same, if that was the question.
COUNSELOR: Yeah, yeah. So is 30 okay for you now, or do you want to talk about that? Or is it all just kind of virtual?
PATIENT: It is virtual. It probably shouldn't be because I am back down to only have this one inadequate income source. 
But I feel like I also made an agreement to do this at a certain - you know what I mean? So it - if it's flexible for you without any pain to the system, then it would probably be good if it could be flexible, but - you know, but I know I made a commitment too, so I'll suck it up.
COUNSELOR: Well, let me ask my supervisor and get back to you. 
PATIENT: Okay.
COUNSELOR: When you started here, what level of employment were you at so that I know where you started out?
PATIENT: Well, then it was the tutoring and an oxygen site.
COUNSELOR: Okay, so that was two out of three.
PATIENT: Yeah.
COUNSELOR: And then you did go up, and you've also gone down from there.
PATIENT: It's a roller coaster.
COUNSELOR: Yeah. And how is that for you today?
PATIENT: I don't know, it's fine I guess. Today is one of the days where I'm not particularly worried about it. But after we talk about it, I will be. (Laughs.) 0:02:00.6
You know what I mean? I mean, just for whatever reasons I mercifully have not been obsessing this morning about  - 
COUNSELOR: Do you feel like paying attention to what will rub that away? Or do you feel like there's something else about talking to me that holds that at bay? Or  - 
PATIENT: I don't know that I understood that question.
COUNSELOR: Okay, it sounds to me like you were implying that sometimes things are nice in here, but when you walk out the door, they're not so nice anymore.
PATIENT: Oh, well I have less to do with it in here than just that it was nice out there before  - 
COUNSELOR: Oh, I see.
PATIENT: You know what I mean, I'm just saying that I'm usually unduly - well, not unduly, perhaps, but obsessed with my financial situation. For whatever reasons, I haven't been thinking about it today - yet. And then we talked about it whether its fine, good, bad, indifferent, whatever, it will be, you know, it will be there. Probably it would have been there anyway, but it'll be there.
COUNSELOR: What have you been thinking about?
PATIENT: This morning? I don't know, I've just been like feeling like happy, and I don't know why so whenever that happens, I really - I don't know, I can't stop to deconstruct it.
COUNSELOR: Right.
PATIENT: But, you know. So  - 
COUNSELOR: Can you - I'm not - I am not asking to deconstruct the where's and wherefores of it, but can you tell me what it's like to feel happy? 
PATIENT: It basically just means not worrying, that's - for me that really is the difference between happy and unhappy, whether you are worried and feel that you have things to worry about or not.
COUNSELOR: What are you doing instead of worrying, do you know?
PATIENT: Looking at people on the subway, thinking about them, thinking about just everything other than my own obsessive little situation.
COUNSELOR: So it sounds kind of like a bigger thing, the tension. How does that feel in your body?
PATIENT: Good. I don't know that I feel it in my body, unless, you know, I were to stop and say how does the feel. It just pretty much means that I'm not feeling myself so much at all, you know, in a good way. I'm not conscious of my body even because that would be thinking about it. 0:04:03.8
COUNSELOR: Okay. So how can I work with you on this right now?
PATIENT: I don't know. I actually want to talk to - ask you something about last week. Which - I was just thinking afterwards how it was kind of remarkable to me that you kind of stopped things twice, I think, to tell me that you were feeling anxious, which I just realized has never - like, in therapy it's always about how do you feel, like asking me. 
COUNSELOR: Right.
PATIENT: And I've never - yeah. So is that part - is that part of this kind of therapy? Like whatever we're doing is the - like, did you tell me that you were anxious because you were anxious or because you wanted to see what I would say when you said you were anxious? 
COUNSELOR: Hmm, that's a good question.
PATIENT: (Laughs.) Do you know the answer?
COUNSELOR: I do know the answer, but I kind of want to know what - first of all, okay, is this infuriating?
PATIENT: Not yet, keep going. (Laughs.) 0:05:11.3
COUNSELOR: Oh my god, I'm just going to stop talking.
I would be happy to tell you. And I was not just trying to find out what your answer would be. In that sense, it feels like I was manipulating you or doing some kind of experiment.
PATIENT: Which, I'll explain to you is fine if that's what you have to do. Like, I'm not - I don't - I'm not - that's not - if that is true, I don't think you were being devious or manipulative. I think you were doing your job.
COUNSELOR: Right.
PATIENT: But I just was curious.
COUNSELOR: Well, okay. It is part of this treatment in the sense that unlike some other kinds of psychotherapy, we're not going to pretend that I'm like this blank slate, an objective person, and you're the only person who's having muck and mysterious stuff happening. 
A lot of - I think a lot of emotional and psychological phenomena don't just happen inside of one person. They happen sort of in the interaction between two people, or they happen in their responses that the other person is having, maybe for reasons they don't really understand. So what I was trying to do is make an experience that I was having part of what we could at least consider talking about. 
Sometimes I feel an anxious wish to prove to you that I'm competent or that we're on track. Do you feel like - does that make sense to you?
PATIENT: Mm-hmm.
COUNSELOR: Yeah. What do you think about that? 0:06:43.3
PATIENT: Well, I think that's a good thing for you to think  - 
COUNSELOR: (Laughs.)
PATIENT: - and I do think you're competent. But yeah, I guess that's interesting. I mean, that makes you - there's something more human about that, about your, you know, admitting that you worry about that or think about that or whatever.
I don't know. It just - like, for me, it called up - asking that first question to myself like called up all of these questions for me then about like therapy being - like there being like some relational or emotional surrogacy going on wherein I'm supposed to learn that it's okay to do these things or feel these. Because there's a person who will not freak out or treat me the way you've ever been treated when this happens. 
But then it sort of made me go like, well, then what good is that if that's what can happen in a vacuum, but that's not what's going to happen. Like, to learn that, I don't know, being honest about something just completely, and having you just be like oh, that's fine, that doesn't upset me or whatever, in order to somehow learn that that's okay. But then when I go out, it's not okay. You know what I mean? That this - yeah. 
I don't mean this to be a challenge question, but I kind of wanted to like understand from a therapist's viewpoint, what is the reason for that? 0:08:14.8
COUNSELOR: Well, I feel like - as you said, a lot of questions come up. Like there's a lot of stuff on the table right now.
I kind of want to - I feel a little lost right now. I have this compulsive wish to write things down because I feel like you're bringing out a lot of concerns that I don't want to lose track of.
PATIENT: Okay, well, if that will help you, because I certainly probably won't remember.
COUNSELOR: So you had asked why - and you also added that I stopped you, and we've talked about like what is it like when I stop you sometimes.
PATIENT: Right. And of course, the totally funny things that you are stopping me to tell me that you felt anxious about the fact that stopping me in the past might have been a problem. Which - (laughs) - it wasn't in the past, and it wasn't last week, either. But I thought it was funny. 
It didn't bother me. I was really just curious about the reason, you know. And if telling me the reason demystifies the reason such that it doesn't work anymore, don't.
COUNSELOR: You know, you often say this. You started it with saying "Well, okay, the anti-process here made me miserable, but maybe it's part of the whole deal. And maybe you can't tell me why." 
It's almost like, "Pay no attention to the man behind the curtain." Like - it's almost like you're saying to me, I'm willing to pay no attention to the man behind the curtain, just tell me where the curtain is, and I won't look in that direction. Is that a little bit like  - 
PATIENT: You know, if you don't want me to look behind the curtain - I mean, I really don't know. I'm just admitting an ignorance about the process. And I find it almost curious that I haven't gone to more trouble to find out secretly what the process is - (laughs) - but I figure I'll just ask you.
COUNSELOR: Is that what you want?
PATIENT: If you won't tell me, I'll go look it up.
COUNSELOR: Well, that's different. I mean, with - is that ordinarily what you would have done? Like, said okay, I won't look behind the curtain, and then gone on the Internet and find out about the curtain? 0:10:09.3
PATIENT: No, I wouldn't have bothered - I wouldn't have even brought up the curtain. I would have just  - 
COUNSELOR: Yeah.
PATIENT: - without asking in here, you know.
COUNSELOR: This sounds important to me. If what? If I had just said I wouldn't tell you, or if you had somehow figured out or got the impression I wouldn't tell you?
PATIENT: Well, here's the thing. I think part of the reason for my being - and I am saying in this situation I might not have looked behind the curtain. The reason that I think I asked you before just doing it, if it is possible to do in some research-y kind of way, is that I think a lot of times I have looked behind the curtain. And I'm so aware of what's happening in other therapeutic situations and the tricks that are - not tricks, but whatever, the techniques and methods that are being employed. I'm just like, see right through that method, you know. 
So if that's what's made therapy not useful for me, that's why I'm kind of telling you to tell me if I should know and not - like if somehow it will work better if I don't - unfortunately, I can't quell my curiosity about what's going on.
COUNSELOR: Okay.
PATIENT: But if it - you know, if I've taken the power out of certain things before for me, for the process by demystifying them, then I don't want to do that again if that's what might happen, because this is clearly a different kind of therapy that I don't know about.
COUNSELOR: Okay. There's several things I want to say simultaneously. One of which is I don't think that it's going to take the power out of this if I explain to you as much as I can what's going on here, what I'm doing. 
But it's very striking to me that you have this very strong sense - or, can you tell me about times in the past that you feel like you've taken the power out of something by demystifying it, or finding out too much about it? 0:12:07.5
PATIENT: Well I was thinking just specifically of therapy. But just coming to realize what kind of like red flag words are, what even if you don't think it's important the therapist is going to try to run with, or knowing when you're having a crush that you are supposed to be transferring and you better just go do that instead of being conscious of it and backing off. 
Sometimes I just feel like I've been kind of removed from the process because I spent so much time analyzing or trying to figure out what's going on, instead of just being in the middle of what's going on.
COUNSELOR: Yeah. 
PATIENT: And so I really have been trying to resist that urge here, and then I feel like this week it just - I just was thinking about it more. 0:12:50.1
COUNSELOR: Do you have a sense of why? (Laughs.)
I mean, it's a shift. It's a change.
PATIENT: It's entirely because of your telling me about your anxiety.
COUNSELOR: And did you feel like, wait, the roles are different here? Or did you feel like, what the f*** is he doing? I'd better ask him. He'd better tell me. Or  - 
PATIENT: Like he'd better tell me, but I just realized that it was very different, you know, and it also - I think I thought from some of the things you said wow, if he's doing that as a person, just he's fully completely aware as a person, he's made himself really vulnerable. But are you really that vulnerable because you were just acting out the requirements of your job, which is to pretend to be vulnerable and see how I react.
COUNSELOR: Oh, are you pretending to be vulnerable. That sounds like a really loaded question. I mean, does it feel really loaded to you? 0:13:49.7
PATIENT: No, because I think pretending would normally have a negative connotation. It's not meant to here. Again, if it is the requirement of this thing that you're doing or your job, then I'm like no, just do it if that's what you're supposed to do. I just became curious about it, you know. Like how much are you playing your role as a therapist, and how much are you just being you with that as a background, that you are the therapist. Do you know what I mean? Like, is it more you or the therapist, if it's the same, how?
COUNSELOR: I do feel like in your experience I - almost I'm starting to feel like this. There's this big split between me as a person and me as my role, or the requirements of my role. And when you say to me, are you just acting? Or you seem vulnerable, but are you really vulnerable or are you just sort of posing as vulnerable because somebody told you to? Then it gets very heavy, like not only are they very far apart, but like the role is very like in the foreground and I'm back here like somewhere like maybe pulling puppet strings. 
PATIENT: Well, you could be. I just asked you. The answer could be completely different. You could say it's not, or you could explain to me something that I don't understand about how, you know, I assume the goal is to be both, and I guess I wonder. 0:15:17.4
COUNSELOR: I was really trying to be present as a real person having a real experience. And it felt a little bit like I almost had to shoulder my way in. It wasn't comfortable for me to say that. I mean, to say I'm anxious - to be the therapist, the one who's supposed to know and to say I'm anxious is peculiar, not very comfortable.
PATIENT: For you?
COUNSELOR: Yeah. And it did feel vulnerable.
PATIENT: Okay.
COUNSELOR: Now, so that's my answer. (Laughs). 
What is it like to get that answer?
PATIENT: (Laughs.)
COUNSELOR: And, in another sense, you said you spent years trying to figure it out and you - did you say you would like to just show up and experience it or  - 
PATIENT: If that would make it better. That's all I'm saying, is I don't know how much I should know about the process.
COUNSELOR: Well, the objective here is to do that as two people. 
PATIENT: Do what as two people? 0:16:19.5
COUNSELOR: Show up and just experience it and kind of follow it, follow the experience. And as we do that, I expect the experience will change or shift or blossom or turn or deepen or sometimes not deepen. And just kind of follow it together.
PATIENT: But I guess now that you - now that I'm realizing that maybe it's not just about me, I'm going to be - like am I supposed to - am I being - I feel like there are new rules. Am I supposed to ask you how you feel about things?
COUNSELOR: (Laughs.)
PATIENT: I mean, am I being rude if I just sit here and assume this is about me because it's my therapy? Or is that part of the thing for me to express my interest in what you feel.
I would have felt like it was an out of bounds question  - 
COUNSELOR: Right.
PATIENT: - before last week to say to a therapist, how do you feel about that? You know. And then now I'm wondering if that's not only my - not only okay, but that it's more than okay. I don't know. Because I don't want you to have to shoulder in when you want to say something.
COUNSELOR: Oh, so you feel like where's the room for me? Or like have you been making room for me? Is - Are you wondering about that?
PATIENT: Yeah.
COUNSELOR: I wonder too. And actually, I think that that's not just a one person thing, I think it's a two person thing. Do you remember the session where we basically just kind of sat and giggled together?
PATIENT: Yeah.
COUNSELOR: I think I was - I mean, I was feeling a big push at that time to like have there be no distance between me and you. 0:17:54.9
I mean, I felt like if I were your perfect therapist, then I would instantly understand everything you said and we would just be here together, but then if you kind of take that a step further, well, what is there left for us to do? Just kind of, sit and giggle together. That's kind of what we were doing. 
But just - what is it like for you to hear me say that?
PATIENT: I don't know.
COUNSELOR: Yeah. 
I also feel like we're talking about something that's in the past, so it's hard to maybe make contact with. 0:18:29.6
PATIENT: Yeah, maybe - no, I mean, I think that too is something that's like about how - I think that's kind of a vulnerable kind of thing for you to say, too. I think that I'm just - it's just tripping me out to be, you know, in this position where you can and or should admit vulnerability too. 
And then - so it does just put me in that kind of sort of what I just said before, but then in this position of wanting to make room if you want to say things, too. But, you know. I'm just saying it's all new, and I don't know how in this context. 
But I could just treat you like a friend, in which case I would ask how you were feeling about things.
COUNSELOR: Well, the difference between this and a friend, which - well, wait. Let's see, actually  - 
PATIENT: I really don't like you and - (laughs.)
COUNSELOR: Do you think that?
PATIENT: No. (Laughs.) Just kidding.
COUNSELOR: The general rule I think - I think for me - I need to slow down more also because your mind moves really fast sometimes, and my mind moves really fast sometimes (inaudible at 0:19:45.3) together sometimes. And a lot is happening, and we're not noticing it. Or we're glossing it over. 
Or - and it strikes me - I mean I really feel like the vulnerability level has just went whoop. Is that uncomfortable? I mean, you put your hands over your eyes for a second. What is that like? I mean, is that - is it - are we going too fast? Did it happen too fast?
PATIENT: No, I guess not. I mean, I feel like it happened - there was what happened in the room last week, and then there was the time that I spent thinking about it over the week, and then it just grew. Like what was a simple thing that happened then turned into, you know, just a whole tree of questions for me that, you know, are not very simple at all, or just that there's too many of them to have grown out of, you know, a little thing. 
And I guess if - but it's not really a little thing if then the rules, whatever they are, have changed, then that is strange, because I feel like after 10 years of therapy I know how to behave in therapy. But now things have - it's different. You know, I guess I want to know how to do this too. 0:21:01.4
COUNSELOR: Yeah. Do you want to know how to do it ahead of time?
PATIENT: (Laughs.) Only if that's going to make me do it better or in a more efficacious way.
COUNSELOR: I feel like you - I mean right now, things just got a lot more confusing. And it feels like you meet that by saying, I want to do this right. Tell me what the rules are because I want to make sure I do it right. 
PATIENT: Or just accept my apology in advance if I'm rude or not - I'm willing to stumble my way to finding what is right as long as, you know. I'm not some bulldozer figure that just comes in and just sits down and just talks about me. If we're supposed to be sharing something, then I'm not sharing anything with you because I'm just talking about me. Then that, you know, I guess there needs to be more give and take there. 
And if - I'll stop. I'm just saying, if I do it wrong, I'm sorry. Do you know what I mean? I mean, like I don't want to make a parody of this by saying, "And how does that make you feel" every three minutes. (Laughs.) But I also don't want to not ask.
COUNSELOR: That's really sweet that you really want to - I feel like you've got a glimpse of what's going on over on my side of the tennis court, and you kind of want to know more, or you feel like it would be polite to know more, or you'd like to invite me in more?
PATIENT: Well, yeah. It's like, yeah. (Laughs.) I'm feeling regretful that I haven't, if that - you know what I mean? If you're saying, the first time I made myself vulnerable, where I had to shoulder my way through you to do that, makes me go, oh, god.
COUNSELOR: Oh no, no. Okay, it sounds like you were taking all the blame for that, and I don't think you should. 0:23:02.0
That's - I'm glad you told me that, because it's really not how I meant it. I felt like for me to bring my anxiety into this room - I mean, it was already here, but you just didn't know about it yet. (Laughs.) 
But - and because I think a lot of what's going on here, we're trying to understand it and experience just what's unfolding, and it is a two person thing. And I was feeling all this push to understand you kind of perfectly without having to ask. And to kind of be very close to you in a way that sort of weaves in that white space in between us.
Does that make sense to you? I mean  - 
PATIENT: Yeah, totally.
COUNSELOR: And maybe that the fact that I was feeling that push with you says something about either you or how I respond to you or maybe something - would you like those things? I mean, either from me specifically or from people in general to like really understand you?
PATIENT: Oh, sure. Yeah.
COUNSELOR: Yeah. Boy, I feel like we have so many things on the table because - yeah, I feel a little overwhelmed just by like how many directions we could go in now. 
I kind of want to stay with the vulnerability thing, because it seems pretty out front to me. Does it feel like that to you? 0:24:46.4
PATIENT: Yeah. I mean, I feel like just throw out a bunch of stuff so I think it's all kind of bad.
COUNSELOR: Yeah, it's bad.
You'd like to do it right. What would it be like if you did it wrong?
PATIENT: It wouldn't work, or it wouldn't work as well. I mean, I really am being very - I feel like utilitarian this time around. Like I don't care what it is, this kind of therapy or this whatever, but I just want to give it the best possible chance of working. So it would just be stupid to do it wrong. 
That's why the time constraints are so present to me. Like normally, I might have just - if this was just open ended, just fumbled around with that. But instead, it's like, okay, I'm going to ask you this thing so that we can get going, I've got to know if it's like this, or if it's like this.
COUNSELOR: Yeah.
PATIENT: So that's, you know, why I even - why I'm so concerned, I guess.
COUNSELOR: I feel like I brought some of that in, too, because I remember in the first session I was telling you how this was going to go over some of the things about it, and you said something like "Oh, we could have wasted weeks."
PATIENT: (Laughs.)
COUNSELOR: You know, and - but I was thinking that, too, like how can we take a shortcut into doing this the right way. 
PATIENT: Well, good, because - I mean, whatever. That's all I'm interested in.
But what do you think of that? What is this already like session seven or eight out of 30?
COUNSELOR: Yeah.
PATIENT: Just like damn, it's one-third over and I'm not - I don't feel any closer to anything.
I do feel like shaken up in a good way, but I guess I'm now ready - I want to - maybe it's not time for that yet, but I feel like just this sense of wanting to start organizing things or something. Do you know what I mean? Like, just - and I don't think there's enough out there to do even do that with, which also frustrates me. It's like, well, when there be? Like, time will just be up and nothing will happen. I feel like we're still just sorting out, like, the mess that is me. And I now we've only scratched the surface - (laughs.)
COUNSELOR: So you're going to tell me all this factual data. I'm going to arrange it into piles. I'll come up with a hypothesis of goals we might pursue. And I'll propose it to you, and then you'll decide whether we'll go that way or not.
PATIENT: No. I mean, no, I don't think it works that way at all. But I feel like that - whether these are compatible notions at all, I do feel like that should be like the background framework that we're supposed to like hang whatever is really going on. Only because that was the point of this project is that things do get done in 30 sessions.
COUNSELOR: And part of that is because of the pressure is that there is only 30 seconds - 30 seconds (laughs.)
PATIENT: (Laughs.)
COUNSELOR: What was it like for you to hear me say that?
PATIENT: It was funny.
COUNSELOR: Yeah. I felt like I let something slip, which is like oh, boy, time is short. 
PATIENT: Well, I - (inaudible 0:28:20.5) - didn't think you were meaning that personally, I thought you were just stating that as a general parameter on therapy for every therapist and every patient. 
COUNSELOR: Well, it's a general parameter.
PATIENT: But now you've given it up, so - (laughs.)
COUNSELOR: I've given what up?
PATIENT: That it was somehow personal for you, and you can be anxious about time as well.
COUNSELOR: But just to warn you, you are welcome to ask how are you feeling, but I'll also be interested in why you're asking and why you're asking right now.
PATIENT: Okay.
COUNSELOR: See, now I feel like I put up a - like I was feeling like a lot of openness and vulnerability and a little bit nervous, like a lot of sort of freshness. And it was really very vivid, and also making you nervous. It's somewhat like, okay, what do we do now, which I kind of feel like you've been showing me you're feeling also. And that - just a minute, let me have a little bit of my role back.
PATIENT: But see that's - but see, here's what - as I will always think that you are doing what you're doing for a reason, not because you had some - but I'm saying what would be natural for me to think is when you did whatever you just did. That it was like okay, this session is being meandering and it's out of control, so now I'm going to do this thing. And I would just think that's what you are supposed to do. 
You know, I'm never going to think that it's like you as a person feeling nervous about what's happening and doing some unconscious thing, but you then of course become conscious three seconds later and tell me. 
COUNSELOR: So it's almost impossible for me to make you feel like I got out of my role.
PATIENT: No. Well, it's not impossible, but sometimes. God, maybe I should just quit caring. Because sometimes you're going to be in your role, and sometimes you're probably not going to be, and I guess it shouldn't matter, right? Like I just need to just go with whatever you are and not think about it.
COUNSELOR: But it seems like you are thinking about it. It seems pretty important to you.
PATIENT: I know. I'm sorry, it shouldn't be. It's going to be another example of something that I analyze to death instead of doing anything about it or anything.
COUNSELOR: Is that what - let's sit with that for a minute. Is that what it is? 0:30:46.4
It sounds like it's pretty important to you. Am I being genuine with you? Is that a fair restatement of what you're wondering about?
PATIENT: Yeah, yeah. But it's not - I think that I really mean this - that it's not important to me if you're genuine, if you're not supposed to be genuine. If that like - it's kind of like the whole thing about if the - say you were faking everything, but that was part of the therapy, and the therapy worked out well because you faked it well. Then that would be okay too. 
I'm like stating a completely extreme situation. That is not true at all. But even if that were, I'm just saying, even in those extremes, it would be okay for you to be - that's why I want to quit worrying about whether - I think my worrying about what sort of role you're playing or lack of a role you're playing will just be something else to tie me up up here.
COUNSELOR: It sounds like part of you is very concerned with knowing whether I'm playing a role or not, and part of you either doesn't want to be or doesn't want to be. 0:32:14.8
Let me ask - let's take them one at a time. If you can just sort of inhabit the part of you that really wants to know, what is that like that wanting to know, or that wondering if I'm being my role or if I'm being a human being.
PATIENT: I just thought it wasn't more something I think that I feel. I guess that - I didn't realize this was part of it. But I get that it has to do with how real I'll be willing to be with you.
COUNSELOR: So  - 
PATIENT: That's another thing I would like to not think, that I should come even if I was  - 
COUNSELOR: I need my paper.
PATIENT: - even if I was going to - that I should be willing to just completely throw myself completely, authentically into your care even if it is your care of the role player, because ostensibly you'll be playing that role well.
But, I'm saying that's what I'd like to think, but I bet that's not true reality. 0:33:34.8
That I would have a sense or the interest to have a sense of what was happening, and I would probably determine what I was going to give up by that. And I know that's not the way it should go, but I'd - I'm just saying I thought it would.
COUNSELOR: A little bit lost. It sounded - well, no. Can you say that again in different words? I was kind of distracted a little.
PATIENT: Okay, let me try to say that. Is that I would like to be completely open and vulnerable regardless of what you're doing, because you're doing it fine. But I bet that that's not the - like if I knew for a fact that you were - and you know this isn't true - but if you were just solely playing a role and that's all you were doing in here, I bet I wouldn't be able to give up much. You know what I mean? That my  - 
COUNSELOR: Yeah.
PATIENT: - is going to have something to do with, you know, how like - how authentically present you are. And I think you are, so I wonder why we're even like - why I led us down this meandering road for so long now. (Laughs.)
COUNSELOR: Now, I think - you think this has just been a meander? I mean, I know it has felt clumsy and painful and confusing sometimes. 
PATIENT: I don't know. Don't you feel like we're in the same place as we were 30 minutes ago?
COUNSELOR: Oh, no.
PATIENT: (Laughs.) Okay, good. 0:35:02.0
Well, all right. I don't know.
COUNSELOR: I want it so you feel it - just for me to echo back to you what I think I've been hearing you say. It sounds like that first you thought you could be genuine with me no matter what, no matter how authentic or real or not I was being as long as it was efficacious, as long it would get the job done. But then you kind of felt a qualm about that, and you doubted that actually you could do that, even though it sounded like a goal you had.
And now you say, oh, well maybe if he's really here, maybe I can be really here. But it sounds like all along, you've kind of felt like it might be possible for me to show up as a fake therapist and you to show up in a certain sense as a fake patient - client and we could still work.
PATIENT: No, the thing is I knew I could never be fake  - 
COUNSELOR: Oh.
PATIENT: - for it to work. But I'm just saying, regardless of my desires to make it work, maybe - I'm just saying I probably couldn't be authentic if I thought you were being fake.
COUNSELOR: Yeah, so - 
PATIENT: Although I liked - everything you said was totally on the money until that. 
COUNSELOR: Until - 0:36:15.4
PATIENT: - until just the very last part.
COUNSELOR: Oh, okay. So you didn't  - 
PATIENT: I never thought I could come and be fake and that we could just have a fake interaction - (laughs) - for 30 weeks, and then I would be a whole person.
COUNSELOR: Okay, but you didn't - but you weren't sure, basically, if you could show up yet. But you definitely felt like you were supposed to.
PATIENT: I'm showing up in little - I just feel, you know, like things are leaking out. But I - you know, like I'm also pretty sure that I haven't opened the floodgates. Know what I mean? Like I haven't been fake, it's just a matter of like how you meter out the real I think.
COUNSELOR: You're metering it out. Do you feel like you're metering it out? Do you have a sense of inhabiting the person who's controlling the valve? 0:37:01.3
PATIENT: No.
COUNSELOR: Okay.
PATIENT: I think it's more just organic than that, you know, that it's always just there, that I always am here. But I feel like I've been - it hasn't felt that way in a negative way because I feel like I've given up kind of a lot relatively quickly, because this is two years of therapy like in sitting there very slowly prodding. I think I have been like pushing, trying, whatever, but I just realized - I don't know, whatever. Maybe it hasn't been - there's certainly more, I guess.
I feel - and I think that I'm being cognizant of this, because I realize that you made yourself very consciously more vulnerable to me last week when I ever have been conscious of making myself to you. And I thought, well, that's week. I better step it up a little. Like, I guess I feel like you upped the ante in a way.
COUNSELOR: Yeah. I feel like we both kind of leveled up actually. But does it feel like I upped the ante, does that make a new demand on you?
PATIENT: Yeah, yeah. Demand is always something that's been negative for me, and it doesn't feel like - a challenge maybe instead of demand.
COUNSELOR: An invitation?
PATIENT: Oh, yes.
COUNSELOR: Would you rather have an invitation or a challenge? 0:38:33.4
PATIENT: I don't know. I would like them both, but in different ways. I can't say.
COUNSELOR: Well that is my buffet for you  - 
PATIENT: (Laughs)
COUNSELOR: - take the challenge. 
PATIENT: I feel like you've gotten really quiet, and I'm characteristically unjokey.
COUNSELOR: Really?
PATIENT: Yeah. Really? So you think so? (Laughs.) Could you elaborate on that?
Don't you think so?
COUNSELOR: Yeah. Part of that is because I feel like being jokey and kind of spontaneous and playful has been a way to be with you, but it's also been a way to fill up space with you, kind of gloss over all this more mysterious stuff. 0:39:42.5
What were you wondering about when you realized that I was being quiet or different?
PATIENT: I don't know, like, I feel all of a sudden you feel very heavy. That I'm not - like I like the jokey guy - (laughs) - and I think I'm a little nervous about serious guy.
COUNSELOR: Oh. Can you say more?
PATIENT: (Laughs.) No, because that really is me telling you do something just like as I perceive it, and I haven't thought about it yet. So that means I can't say more. 
But I just wonder - yeah, I wonder if I like ruined the jokey magic or something, you know what I mean? That I like brought in something that was very big, and now you all of a sudden feel like you have to be serious or something.
COUNSELOR: So again, I feel like it's like did I decide to be this way, is a strategic choice on my part to produce some kind of a result in you?
PATIENT: Not to produce a result in me necessarily, but maybe in - maybe to be like shit, we have spent a lot of time joking around. Okay, let's cut to the chase. I think it could be like that, too. 0:40:48.7
COUNSELOR: No.
PATIENT: (Laughs.) No, but it's not. 
Yeah, that's all.
COUNSELOR: I'm just wondering about this feeling of vulnerability that we've been talking about. How is it for you?
PATIENT: It's fine. I think the point is, I don't feel like I've made myself hugely vulnerable, so I'm still fine - (laughs.) Ask me again after I have or if I do or whatever.
COUNSELOR: What would it be like if you did?
PATIENT: I don't know. It's not something I'm accustomed to doing.
COUNSELOR: Is this at all like when you told me many sessions ago about sometimes you disconnect from your feelings so that you can get through telling a story?
PATIENT: Yeah. That's not what's happening right now, but I guess that's how I do - how maybe - you know what, yeah. I mean like I think that I can tell people things that seem very - that seem like I would be making myself very vulnerable, but I'm not at all. I can tell you the worst things that ever happened to me and not feel - it's weird. I never quite thought about it before. I can say almost anything without feeling emotional about it at all.
COUNSELOR: How do you do that?
PATIENT: I don't know. Because I didn't realize to a degree at least to which I do it until now.
I don't know. I think it's something to do with like being cynical about the experience in a way that I don't maybe really feel deeply but, you know what I mean? Or find - I guess, you know, finding the humor in things. Like I can tell my like horrible coming out to my parents story with enough aptly placed jokes that the whole thing doesn't feel horribly heavy. 
I don't know. It probably does. But you know, where it could be like reasonably funny just because it'd be too depressing - (laughs) - to throw some jokes in, you know. 0:42:57.4
COUNSELOR: Too depressing to what?
PATIENT: For anyone to hear or want to hear - you know what I mean? Like that story and various other stories I don't like to talk about very much, but if someone asks I guess I have ways to tell those stories.
COUNSELOR: So that they don't do what?
PATIENT: I don't know what. They wouldn't do anything, but so that I don't make myself really vulnerable. I mean, I think that I'm very interested in like all kinds of narratives, and I make up stories - not they're completely made up, but I think that I fashion events in such a way. 
Like when I think about things, I'm sure - sometimes I worry about my memory, because I think my memory - sometimes it's expeditious in a narrative sense to kind of reorder things that happen or whatever to make a story that's more palatable for me or for someone else or whatever. And then I get to a point where I'm like, god, what was the first story? How did it really happen? You know, because I tell the stories enough, even just to myself, about all kinds of things. I think it's amazing how you can completely change an event by the story you tell about it.
COUNSELOR: Yeah.
PATIENT: Without really altering the story at all, the facts of the story.
COUNSELOR: What are the - what's the storyteller's goal?
PATIENT: It depends on the storyteller - (laughs). I mean, I guess. We're talking about me right now. I guess it could be about me protecting myself. It's also about there's a storyteller who wants to tell an interesting story, and one that makes narrative sense. You know what I mean? When unlike a dream or something you have to fashion events in some way usually before you can tell them as a story. 
So I guess your job as a storyteller is to tell an interesting or an instructive or whatever the point is, you know, for you telling your story, that you do it in such a way that's engaging and the story is credible.
COUNSELOR: I feel like you're pulling back getting kind of intellectual. Is that - do you feel that sense too? 0:45:12.6
PATIENT: Yeah. But that's when I don't think about and like to talk about so - yes and no.
COUNSELOR: I do too.
Was it to much when we sort of meandered around and talked about what it's like to be here? Did it feel too raw?
PATIENT: No. No, it did. And I realized it wasn't entirely me because I realized things in our talking. 
But no, it was interesting. I don't know that - I mean, I actually realize - I mean maybe I shouldn't, maybe I don't care. So I don't think really very many of my original questions were answered, and maybe that's because there aren't any. But  - 
COUNSELOR: What are some other questions that you have? 0:46:08.3
PATIENT: I don't know any other ones, but we still didn't really talk about - do you think we talked about what we're doing here as a therapeutic model?
COUNSELOR: Mm-hmm. No, I'm saying "aha, I understand the question."
The goal is not to make the areas or analyze or make extra connections. The goal is to stay as close to the unfolding experience as possible. Do you feel like we did that more this week?
PATIENT: Yeah.
COUNSELOR: And what did it feel like to do that?
PATIENT: (Laughs.) Good. Like interesting, you know, it's very different to - just to do that, you know, to be in a situation where that's your whole job is to just be in the situation. That's a lot, you know. And someone else that wants to do it or has to do it with you or whatever, but you're almost never - you can go, you know, you can like get up off your cushion and be like, "I'm going to be open to the world today." 
And then if no one's open to you, really, it doesn't - you know what I mean? Like it kind of takes people in that same space for that to really have very much merit. So I guess it's interesting to be in your situation.
COUNSELOR: Safe or unsafe? 0:47:47.6
PATIENT: Like unsafe, but with lots of insurance. You know what I mean? Like something that is like skydiving that is inherently unsafe, but, you know, you're doing it with a reputable company and you have two parachutes.
COUNSELOR: The question of you or me being in roles, is it still in bright colors right now? Or  - 
PATIENT: No.
COUNSELOR: Yeah. What has shifted?
PATIENT: I don't know. I just feel - for some reason, I feel more comfortable either - I don't know, that you're not - that you're - the thing is I didn't feel suspicious about this quite so much anyway that you were just playing a role. But it certainly - it's clear to me that you are doing that - you're not doing that in any way that's separate from who you are, I feel like. Which is a good thing to know - correct me if I'm wrong - (laughs) - because that's the story I'm going to tell myself today. But no, I think it's good - there's - it's some kind of resolution.
COUNSELOR: It seems that me in a role would be the same thing sort of.
PATIENT: Yeah, or whatever. Some configuration, that's fine. Or not, if Dr. Harris coming in - (laughs) - trying to smash through the therapy.
COUNSELOR: Yeah. So what I hear in that is, you know, for my own purposes as opposed to your purposes. 0:49:46.1
PATIENT: Well, no, because we have the same purpose in some ways.
COUNSELOR: What's that?
PATIENT: Well, if this is to be successful, then I will have met certain goals and you will have been the successful doctor that helped the client successfully reach her goals.
COUNSELOR: The question of succeeding or failing is very big for you.
PATIENT: Yes, it is, but that's entirely because of the kind of therapy it is.
COUNSELOR: Because it's short?
PATIENT: Yeah. And I mean, there is certainly no guarantees or promises made, but that - I don't know if you've seen the ads for the project? But they're like, "Are you not making enough money? Do you not  - " 
I mean, it sounds like they're selling you a used car. If you come here for six months, you'll get what you paid for. Like, it really it is. You know, same old tired relationship problems? And, you know, so I was like, all right, I'm going to go try this thing and it's going to fix me. So yeah, so success is more of an issue than if I was just going to an open-end therapist and chat for five years or so about it.
COUNSELOR: And we did a thing that was very different from that in this session, which is just kind of meandering and touching things and kind of showing up more I think as human beings with actually less of a roadmap than before.
PATIENT: Yeah. Which is good, but I have to say makes me, in a way, nervous. Because I really have - I have - you know, I just said this is a point where I have to completely leap of faith. Because I have no idea, as nice as that is and as like perhaps spiritually gratifying to be present with someone and have no idea how that's like going to make me have a career and a job four months from now, which was the goal. 
So it's interesting enough that I'm going to keep doing it for sure, even if nothing did happen. But I really have no idea how this is going to make anything happen. 0:51:42.1
Draw on that. 
COUNSELOR: Huh?
PATIENT: I made a joke. (Laughs.)
COUNSELOR: Yes.
PATIENT: Yes. (Laughter.)
COUNSELOR: (Laughs.)
PATIENT: All right, I'm done.
COUNSELOR: Yes.
So I will see you next week?
PATIENT: Okay, have a good week.
COUNSELOR: Thanks, you too.
Hi, come in.
END TRANSCRIPT
