TRANSCRIPT OF AUDIO FILE:
______________________________________________________________________________
BEGIN TRANSCRIPT:
THERAPIST: Hi, come on in.
CLIENT: Believe it or not, everything is going good. I know it's funny, because I haven't had a week like this, where I've actually felt this good in my body, in a while. To piggyback on what we were talking about last week, about how you know, when my girlfriend drinks a lot and you know just... just can't control it. She gets my blood boiling and I get irritated. [0:00:55]
Saturday, I was in class all day and she was going to a bachelorette party. I kind of got really nervous before she even went, because they were going to a wine tasting and then out to dinner. I was like okay, I was already preparing for the worst and this, that and the other thing, for when I got out of class. So class gets over, I go home, she's at the party and I'm hanging out with her brother and we're just talking, doing all that stuff, and then we get the call for him to go get her. And I'm just like, I'm watching my niece while he goes and gets the girls and I'm just waiting for her to come in as a disaster. Surprisingly, she wasn't that bad. She was good but you know, she was still a little tipsy, but I wasn't as enraged as I usually normally am, because usually she's not coherent at all and that's when I get pissed off. [0:02:01]
But she wasn't bad, we stayed there, and then we went over to some friend's house for a little bit. We had a couple extra drinks there, you know she really didn't drink much over there, which was a good thing, because I think it finally clicked with her, like she knows her limits now, and was kind of just mellow. She was still in that stage where she was intoxicated but you know, she kind of knew what she was doing. Her eyes were still heavy but she wasn't blacked out I don't think, which was a good thing for me, because then I know that she recalls and you know, it doesn't feel so bad. So you know, I mean in that—you know that was a positive to me. I was very proud of her, where she did know her limits, because not for nothing, I chalked her up as being you know, a bag of nuts, coming home and just being absolutely useless and someone was going to have to carry her into the house, and she wasn't. [0:03:07] 
She surprised me which you know, it kind of made me real proud of her because we did discuss those issues. I told her how I get when she's like that and how I don't like the fact how she's judgmental to me when I cope with my drugs, and she's coping with alcohol and it's two totally different stories. So I think she's starting to get it. I can't say it's a hundred percent fixed because it's only one time. So I guess I'm hoping for the consistency. I'm hoping to see her grow like I've grown, where it's to the point where I don't really have any rage. I didn't feel any rage. I didn't get angry, I didn't get upset. Now maybe was it because I was playing with the baby? I don't know. But I do know that I did like you know, the way she was, because she's fun that way. She's not fun the other way, when she's a mess, where she can't stand up, she's slurring her words, her eyes are closed. That really, it kind of... it pisses me off more than it embarrasses me, because I don't want to be the babysitter. We're past that stage of our lives where we need to be babysitting everybody. So, on that note I was very proud of her. [0:04:38] 
On another note, my grandmother is coming back in this week and I have no desire to see her. I have no—I could care less. My dad's picking her up Thursday and putting her in a nursing home on Friday, but nobody has told my grandmother, she doesn't know. She just thinks she's coming back up because it's that time of the year for her to live up here at this time. So it's going to be interesting to see how that goes, but I mean for me, I'm struggling to find feelings towards my grandmother. The other day, when I was working with my dad, my aunt called and I talked to her, and kind of just you know, I have no desire to talk to her either. It's just one of those things where all I have is bad memories, is negative memories of them. And you know, like I've been mentioning throughout all of my sessions, is I'm trying to eliminate the negative energy and the negative talking from my life. [0:05:54]
My mother is what she is. She is just a consistent negative person and I try to avoid her as much as I can. It's just you know, where I'm at in my life, where I don't want all this negativity around me. It's hard to express my feelings to my mother because again, she is my mother. I'll always have an unconditional love towards her, but there are times where I do worry about her because you know, her negativity gets her so worked up that something bad is going to happen to her health-wise, and just no matter what I do, no matter what I say, she just won't listen. I mean, my grandmother is coming up, my aunt and uncle are coming up, and she's getting all worked up. Over what? Over nothing. You know? It's to a point where I just get sick of hearing about it, like I leave, I can't sit there, and I feel bad because I know my mother is hurt and I know my mother is upset. I know my mom is depressed, I know she feels bad about everything, but she's kind of in a way like Lucy was, where she'd just sit there and sulk and complain, and she's not taking the initiative to get better. That's very bothersome to me, is that she's just sitting there and just letting this eat at her. I mentioned to her, trying to go get some help and do all this stuff and she goes, "I've done it before." I was like, "Yeah, and how did it go?" Well it was all right, and that's the end of it. You know my mother just—and it's just constantly the same nonsense over and over and over and it is what it is. [0:07:48]
My cousin is getting married in August, my dad's sister's son, and I've made it clear to my dad and my mother that I'm not going. I have no desire to go, I don't want to go, and they're pretty pissed off at that. They're like you're going and I'm like no I'm not, I don't want to go. I have no desire to go, I don't really care. Well you know, you're going to leave us in an awkward position. Right now, I want you to tell them that I just don't want to go. Well, we're going to make something up. No, don't make anything up, I don't want to go. I have no desire to be there, I don't want to be there. I don't—you know, I don't want any association with him or my you know? As bad as it sounds, I want no association with my aunt's family. I want no association with my grandmother, because then my grandmother, she—(sighs) my grandmother is funny because you know, she has really bad diabetes, she's blind and she's deaf. [0:08:53]
THERAPIST: Wow.
CLIENT: But, she's very sharp. She miraculously sees what she wants to see and miraculously hears what she wants to hear. She's cute, she's a cute little thing you know? She's aware of everything that's going on you know, and that's what everybody is saying now, is just like my grandmother is probably going to bad-mouth me, which is fine, you know it's nothing that I'm not used to. They're like oh, she's blind and deaf, but she will notice if I'm not there. And I don't know why I like, I just—I don't know, I just have no desire to see her. I want nothing to do with her. I want her to just—maybe it is, I want her to feel like how I felt, just like okay, well you didn't care about me for 20-plus years, I don't really care about you. I know it's sad because it's your grandparent and you're not supposed to have these kind of feelings, but I say this an awful lot, is if my grandmother died tomorrow, I don't know if I'd cry at her funeral. And I've mentioned this before, I don't even know if I'd even go to the funeral. I don't know if I'd want to go to the funeral, because I just feel she's been so out of my life that there is no connection there. There's nothing to be gained from it, there's nothing to lose from it you know? And from what my mother talks about is you know, the day my grandmother passes away, my mother is going to have World War III with my aunt. I don't want to be there for that, I don't care. It is what it is and I know I'm going to hurt a lot of people but you know, even now, I have no desire to associate with anybody that I don't want to talk to. And I know it's messed up because it is family, they are blood relatives, and I just, I, I—I don't talk to them. [0:11:00]
It's kind of like my aunt and uncle and my cousins at the restaurant. Since I quit, I've only talked to them once and I have no desire to go back to the restaurant, even as a customer. I just don't want to be there. I don't know if it's me, I don't know if it's me being stubborn, me being pissed off, but you know, I just don't like putting myself in situations and then everyone is like what's the matter, you don't want to come and hang out and visit and do this, and I want to be like yeah. I have nothing to give to that place, I have nothing—I have no emotions for that place. I want to get it out of my life, I want to move on. And I feel like—I don't know if I feel like I'm masking the problems or what you know, but it does bother me. These are problems that I've had for a while, that I just want them to be the way they are, like I don't even want to talk to them. It's to the point where I want to have a conversation, where I just want to tell everybody, you do your thing, I'll do my thing, like don't come looking for me, don't ask for me. If I need you or I want to see you, I'll reach out to you. You know? It is kind of messed up, because I don't think my siblings have any of these feelings. I don't know, I can't answer for them. They're really upset that I'm not going to go to the wedding. They're all like, well I'm going for the free booze, I'm going for this, and like I don't even care about that. [0:12:39]
I just don't want to go, you know I have no desire. It's not that I—I mean is it hatred in a way? Yes. Is it you know, is it stubbornness? Yes. I just don't know what it is, I can't—you know, I don't get peppy to see them. I don't really have a relationship with them. I mean I do but I don't and it's just, it just bothers me, because I feel like I'm losing my relationship with my family more than my friends. It's like my friends are more my family than my family is and for me, it's hard to process, it's hard to digest, it's hard to fathom that that's a reality and it slowly is becoming that way because you know, we all know some day we're not going to have family there all the time. The family is going to move on, the family is going to pass away, and you're going to have to adapt, you're going to have to move on. You know it's just, I don't know, it is—it's just something that bothers me, it bothers me a lot. [0:13:59]
I know I jump the gun when I talk to my girlfriend about it but you know, the reason why we haven't talked about marriage is because I'm going to get in a huge fight as I mentioned, about the guest list. There are certain people that I don't want there and I feel I'm not going to have a say. Well I am and I—and again, I'm not... you know? I mean it's just I don't want to hurt my dad to the point and I don't want to hurt my mom to the point where you know, it's just going to be a hassle. The one people that you know, I know I'm going to hurt my mom a lot is you know, I'm going to get married probably in the summertime, when I'm off from school, but I'm also probably going to do—
THERAPIST: This summer?
CLIENT: No, no, no, when I do.
THERAPIST: I see.
CLIENT: When the time is—
THERAPIST: I was like wow, that's soon.
CLIENT: No, when the time is—
THERAPIST: I misunderstood. [0:14:58]
CLIENT: When the time is right, but I'm going to do it when the restaurant is in season and I want to know how much they really care about me, because I've had this conversation with my girlfriend, is I'm going to invite every one of them and if one of them doesn't show up, I said this to her, I will never talk to them again, because then in my heart, that's really going to secure where I stood all those years, because I have this gut feeling that my uncle will send everybody and he'll stay at work.
THERAPIST: You want to test them?
CLIENT: I do, I do, and I don't know why. It's like vengeance or something. I want to see where their real loyalty is, if what they said to me really means that. And I'm already preparing to not speak to them ever again, because I know with that business, they can't do it. I don't know if I should threaten them with that before, when the times comes, or not. [0:16:10]
THERAPIST: What would you do if they all came then?
CLIENT: It would be different because knowing them, I don't think they can do it, to be honest. I don't think they could do it. I know who would come. I know my aunt would come and I know my cousin would come, but the other two; my aunt and my uncle, I don't have—I don't know. I don't know. And I'm saying that they'd come and stay until the end, like close the business. They can't leave the business for a couple hours and then leave and go back, because then I'll know the business will always come before our family, and that's—you know, I don't know why my sick mind thinks of stuff like this but that's... you know, I'm prepared. (sighs) I've made it my choice and I've had this conversation. I had it with my mom and I know she's going to be really heartbroken when I tell her, because then I'll really know all the stuff that they said to me before was shit and it had no meaning behind it. And then I'll really—it will validate to me that Juan always was about that and everybody else in that business was always about that. I'll let them know that and that's it, I'm never going to speak to them again. [0:17:45]
I just don't know why I have this anger and this vengeance, like I can feel my body tingling up right now. I'm getting you know, anxious, my heart is racing right now. It's just, I don't know why I get this way and this is why I'm here. I'm trying to control these—you know, this anger, this control, this... everything that I've worked so hard so far to overcome, but there's still a lot of hurt that's inside of me, that I need to get out, and I know I mask a lot of it, I know I hide a lot of it. And I mean, I can open up in here and talk about it, but when I have to actually confront the issue, I'd rather run away and let it be and not talk it over with them.
THERAPIST: Well the way you think about confronting it is like with a standoff. [0:18:45]
CLIENT: Mm-hmm. I do and I have been very standoffish, you know in previous times, where I'm a very stubborn person and I will you know, I'll just, I'll leave it alone. It will take you a while just to break my shell, but I mean I'm that type of person. When my mind is set on something and I'm not thinking, it's over, like I just—you know, I mean that time that I didn't talk to them for seven months, unless I broke the shell, I don't think we'd be talking, I really don't, and that's the god's honest truth. It's like my aunt and my grandmother, like I don't talk to them. My grandmother comes in, she's there for four, five months out of the year and I have no desire to see her. My mother's younger sister, she's handicapped, she's disabled, she's in a home. I have no desire to see her. I mean it's just, these are family, this is what you're supposed to you know, want to be around them, want to see them, and I have no desire to be around them. I think it's because I've been hurt so much by the people I've loved so much that it's hard for me to open back up, because we did have an unconditional relationship before. But once I was hurt by that and hurt by people I was trusted by, hurt by people that you know, I loved and thought loved me, I think the anger just became so engulfed in my whole body. [0:20:37]
THERAPIST: Yeah.
CLIENT: You know? You know how I was talking about how I was involved in the whole company. It's like you know, this is the only thing I think about, this is the only thing, you know what kind of revenge can I get out of it, what can I do to be rebellious, you know to not see them, to get a point across, to do something that gets their attention where I have to bring it, they have to come and speak to me. You know what I mean?
THERAPIST: Well, it sounds like you're feeling all the power and you want to assert the power balance so that you—so that they'll have to come to you.
CLIENT: Yeah, that's exactly it. I don't want to go to them. I want them to come to me and I want them to talk to me about why I didn't do this, why was this isn't happening, you know why I'm angry at them, why am I having these feelings towards them. And to be honest, I don't know if I can emotionally control myself, because I mean like I've mentioned to you, I do get nasty. You know? I do have a lot of anger, I do have a lot of hate, and you're not supposed to have anger and hate to your family. [0:21:57]
THERAPIST: According to who?
CLIENT: (sighs) I don't know. It's just I don't know. I don't know. I don't have an answer. Maybe according to me? Maybe according to what I've seen on TV? Maybe according to how I was brought up, I don't know, I really don't have an answer. Maybe it's what I want it to be, that's not what I want it to be? I don't know. It's something I'm going to have to think about and do some research on, because I don't... I don't—I don't know. It's something to think about because I see you know, the same thing goes on in my girlfriend's family, is I see the hate that she has towards her family and in a way, I have the same hate or even more towards mine. (sounds frustrated) And I just, I don't know if that's—if it's our personalities, it's because we've been hurt so much, I don't know. And I think that's why her and I you know, our relationship has gotten better, is because we have been communicating about this more, we have been talking about this more. We have ah... you know, been talking about distancing ourselves a little bit more from our families. I know that's, it's—you know it's tough to do, because they are your family, but it's just something that we've talked about, it's something you know, that we're trying to develop strategies where we can just cut down the time that we see our families, because right now it's just, we're not getting the support that we need from them. We're getting it more with our friends. [0:24:13]
THERAPIST: Yeah.
CLIENT: And I guess to me that's kind of heartbreaking a little bit.
THERAPIST: That's not the way it should be?
CLIENT: Yeah. It's not the way that you know, I see how things were back in the day. I say this all the time, I would love to be back in like the 1950s, around the holidays, where everybody couldn't wait to hang with their family. Could they have had issues back then? Sure. But all the old movies, all the old clips that I see, you see our family together, they're all happy. You know? And then I look now at my family and I'm like, we're all discombobulated. Everybody hates everybody you know? It's like a job to go to someone's house for a holiday. You know it's just, it's two totally different worlds and to me, when I see those old films, I'm just like maybe I—you know, I wish I could go back in time and just live, you know one holiday back there, just see how everything I've seen back in the day was more happy than it is today. I don't know, maybe I am—I get down on myself because that's what I picture and that's what I want to see, but it's completely opposite of what I'm living. [0:25:47]
THERAPIST: Mm-hmm.
CLIENT: It's kind of a bummer. I'm not going to lie to you, it's a real bummer. So I mean it's just I don't know. I just, I—I just, I don't know why I feel this way towards my family and it's just the older I get, the more and more I see of them, the more and more I want to distance myself, the more and more I want to be away from everybody. I kind of see why my sister does it, but my sister also has a lot of problems with depression and you know, she does need the extra support and we'll try to be there to support her as we can, but you know, she's another one where she's extremely depressed, she needs support. She lives in another town. Well, when you ask her to move home, she can't live with my parents, because she kind of feels the same way I do, it's just she doesn't feel she gets the correct support that she needs there. And I say this to my girlfriend all the time, I say as soon as I get a job, you and I are going to look for a place together and we're going to move in together, because to be honest, I can't live in that house any more. You know, I've done my time, I know what I want now. I know I don't want to be there and I'm there yeah, for convenience, yeah, for finances, but you know mainly I'm just—I sleep there like one or two nights a week, that's it. [0:27:32]
THERAPIST: You're at your girlfriend's most of the time?
CLIENT: The rest of the time. Also, I mean in a way I moved out but I really didn't you know? And she always brings up to me that it's a convenient thing. It bothers me that she says that, that it is a convenience thing, but in a way it kind of is, you know for now, because I'm not working and it is kind of closer to all the activities that I'm around which you know, yeah it is convenient, but I mean, I don't want to be there full-time. You know? I mean I'm there once or twice a week, which is you know, it's more than enough. If I'm there like over two times a week, I get—I can't do it. I'll try to find something to get out of the house and distance myself and go do something else, just so I'm not around. I'm not going to lie, the location of my parents' house is perfect for what I do, and that's the hard part for my girlfriend because she is right in a way, that it is convenient. [0:28:44]
THERAPIST: Mm-hmm.
CLIENT: You know? Because okay, I have class, why am I going back when I can just stay at my parents' house that night. (chuckles) You know? And then I'm working, if I had—you know, if I'm working with my dad, why am I going to there, get up at 6:00, come back here, when I can just stay there and go with my dad. You know, I can see her point, but I'm fully prepared, once I get a full-time job, to make that commute, to not stay there every night, to move in with her and come home to her. I'm ready to make that commitment once I get a job. It took a little bit of time, because I never really was on my own. I was in college but I wasn't, because I was always back and forth, because I was working at the restaurant and I needed to be at home to get sleep, because I know if I was at school, I'd be up all night doing drugs, and I needed that time away. [0:29:50]
THERAPIST: It's like a safe haven.
CLIENT: Yeah, it is, it's like a little getaway. I mean, I like doing what I like to do, but I also, I hibernate back in there, and it's where I can just you know, I can be by myself to a degree and do my own thing.
THERAPIST: Well I guess one of the questions is can you create a safe haven outside of your parents' home?
CLIENT: I would like to.
THERAPIST: Mm-hmm, I know you would.
CLIENT: I'd like to. Before, I don't think I had the tools to, I don't think I had the emotional power to, I don't think I had the drive to. Now, you know now that I'm getting close to being done with my masters and that job soon will be coming closer to a reality to me, I think I'm ready to. I think there was just a couple pieces to the puzzle that were missing, you know and then in November, my girlfriend and I had that split-up for a bit, you know I think I messed up the pieces a little bit more. But the more and more that her and I have actually been working things out and getting along a lot better and putting the pieces back together, I know we're pretty close to completing the puzzle and really pretty much starting our lives together. [0:31:18] 
It took a while to come to reality with that because again, it's funny because you know, I had a student come in today who's scared about moving on in the future, and he's looking for me to help guide him, and in a way, I was the same person six, seven months ago, because I wasn't ready to grow up, I wasn't ready to be an adult. But now that I've had my time and I've had—you know, things are moving forward, I'm ready to take on that challenge. I'm ready to be an adult, I'm ready to be a family guy, I'm ready to be out on my own. And I don't know why it took so long? Maybe it was because I'm getting out of this comfort zone and maybe I am getting out of it, we'll see, but for me it was a real struggle. I was back and forth, back and forth, until finally where you know, the more and more positives that would come, the more and more that my and my girlfriend's relationship was growing, the more and more my head was thinking more clearly. If I hadn't you know, and my family were leaning towards what our ultimate feelings are. [0:32:47]
My girlfriend told me the other day, we had a couple—maybe it was a couple weeks ago, the conversation was—and this was my fear—was that she doesn't really know how committed I am. She told me that she wanted a ring before we get back together and I said okay. I was like, I can't promise you that, but in my head, I'm like you know, I told her that I was already preparing for that before I quit my job and all that stuff. I was looking, I did have twelve thousand dollars saved, and then I quit my job and I did a couple of other things, you know just to be an idiot and I'm still saving. Right now, with the little money that I was making, I've managed to scrap up six thousand dollars to save for her ring. I'm still you know, there's a price that's set in my head and there's a price that I'm going to spend, and whether we move in together or not before I hit that price who knows? I hope it's yes and I hope she can believe me but you don't know. And I know once I—I mean I already have it planned out, once I get a job, I know how I'm going to save the money, you know I know what I'm going to spend it on. I mean you can't—hey, I mean it's just, it is what it is and it comes back to the ring thing too. I have a higher set figure in my head because once again, I'm scared about being judged by my family. [0:34:49]
THERAPIST: Yeah.
CLIENT: You know? Because everything that we do and everything that I've done my whole life has been judged.
THERAPIST: Twelve thousand dollars is a lot of money.
CLIENT: Oh yeah. But my figure was higher because of the expectation you know, and it's frustrating because I'm trying to move on from the expectations and I do have a fear of being judged in a bad way.
THERAPIST: Yeah.
CLIENT: And I keep telling people, you can't get less than this weight, you can't—you know, it's got to look like this, it's got to be like this, and it's really pissing me off. I'm like no, I have in mind what I want. I can already see what I want, I know what I want and the problem is, I need to save the money and everyone is like well here, let me give you money and I'm like no, because then to me it's not genuine, and for us and for our relationship, I want it to be genuine. I want everything to come right from me and I think that will help me out more as a man and as an individual, if I can do this on my own. [0:36:03]
THERAPIST: Yeah.
CLIENT: It's a lot of pressure, I mean it's bothersome, because I don't like to have this put on me you know? And this is the one thing that I do feel bad for her, because she does see all our friends getting engaged and married and having kids. She's like, am I making the right decision by waiting for you and I'm like, you know it hurts me, because like I've mentioned in here, she, she—for what I've done in the past, she can just get up and walk away. She tells me she's not, she tells me she's committed to me, which is fine, but in the back of my head I know like it can happen. Previously, in our relationship, when we had our downs, I wanted her to walk away.
THERAPIST: Why her and not you?
CLIENT: I wanted her to.
THERAPIST: Why?
CLIENT: Because it would be easier on me, because I know I couldn't walk away from her. It's just one of those people where you know you have a connection from, a connection with, and she's one of them. The whole time we were broken up and you know, apart from each other, she's all I think about, she's all I want to—she's all you know, she's my everything, she's who I care about, she's who I want to be with, she's who I want to start a family with. I never thought you could love someone like that but you can. [0:37:37]
THERAPIST: Mm-hmm.
CLIENT: You know? And that's how I feel about her and that's how I feel now that our relationship is getting better, but there's always going to be that doubt from before, and I know time, we'll be better, and I do know that once I put a ring on her finger, she will. She will be you know, she'll know that the commitment is there, and that's what's scaring me, is because I know what I want to do, I know that I do want to put a ring on her finger. It's just I can't do it as fast as she'd like and that bothers me because I know she's hurt by it. I know she's really hurt by it and it hurts me that I'm hurting her. It's just one of those things where it's going to happen. I just need to—you need to give me some time, so. It's just, it's moving in the right direction, things are starting to move forward for me. Hopefully, I won't be unemployed for long and hopefully, I can get a summer job where I can keep picking away and picking away and picking away at the money situation, but I don't know. [0:39:05]
The last thing I want to do is go back to work in the restaurant. Those are over, there's no if, ands or buts about it, I'm never going back there. I need to move on with my life and I need to find something else that I need to do. I'm starting my new career in four weeks.
THERAPIST: Is that when you graduate?
CLIENT: Yeah, I graduate in four weeks, so.
THERAPIST: Oh.
CLIENT: I'm really excited about that. I'm really excited about moving on with the next chapter in my life but there's all this old garbage that I'm trying to move on from, I'm trying to get past. It's going to be interesting you know, with my grandmother coming in come Thursday. You know, they ask if you're around and I'm like no, even though you know, I'm not around, but even if I was around, I'm not around. It does bother me a little bit that I see my girlfriend, who has an unbelievable relationship with her grandmother, and that's what I had with my mom's mom, and I guess that's what I was looking for from my dad's mom but she never gave it to me. She never gave it to my set ways. She always gave in to my dad's sister's kids and it bothers me you know? When I talk to my cousins, like my dad's brother's children, and I tell them what I'm doing they're like, what are you doing? Now they're starting to think like me. They're like oh, I don't want to go to this now either. But will they go? Yes. Will I go? No. And that's going to be the difference between us, is because I don't care what anybody else in my family say about me, I really don't and they kind of do. [0:41:08]
THERAPIST: Mm-hmm.
CLIENT: Because we do put on a happy face when we go to these family functions, and that's the hardest part, is trying to fake that everything is all right and fake that you know, you are having an okay time, and everybody is just dandy. It's not. I'm tired of faking it, I'm tired of putting on my happy face. I want people to start seeing what's going on. I want it to be out there that I am hurt. I mean the hardest thing I ever did was at last year's Christmas party, I told my dad's uncle's wife, so my great aunt who's my grandmother's brother's wife, that I considered her and my uncle more my grandparents than my own grandmother, because they were always there, they were always looking out for us. It was just like birthdays, they'd give us a card and do all that stuff. You know, I didn't expect it out of them but they just did it. When I had my surgeries, they were there, coming to visit me, and my grandmother never came. [0:42:25]
THERAPIST: Surgeries for?
CLIENT: For sports. When I broke my leg, they came, when I broke my ankle, you know they came. You know it's just, it's stuff like that. Anything happened to my brothers or my sisters, they'd come and visit.
THERAPIST: Mm-hmm.
CLIENT: My grandmother wouldn't come and it's heartbreaking. It's one of those things where you grow up being treated a certain way, and when you're old enough to realize how you were treated and understand what was going on, it's really hard to overcome.
THERAPIST: Yeah.
CLIENT: You know? Because I think the wounds that my grandmother left me were just so deep, and the condition that she's supposedly in, I just don't think there's enough time to heal those wounds, I really don't. The same with my aunt, because I don't even want to try to heal those wounds. I just want to let them go and stay the way they are and move on from them, and for me that's kind of messed up, because usually you try to fix family problems, you try to move on, you try to make everything better instead of putting on a happy face that's a real happy face, and I just don't have that with my dad's side of the family, I really don't. And I just, I don't know. I'm just angry at a lot of my family right now. [0:44:12]
THERAPIST: It sounds like it.
CLIENT: Yeah. I'm just really angry. You know, instead of talking to them and telling them how I feel, I don't even want to get involved with that. I just want to let it go. I want them to approach me. I'm tired of being the guy who expresses his concerns and then when I do express them, I get crapped all over. I get blamed because it's all my fault. They don't see what they've done wrong. They don't see the other side of the picture, they don't see the big side of the picture, which is fine and it is kind of what you said, is I want to reverse the power issue.
THERAPIST: Mm-hmm.
CLIENT: I want to put the ball in my court, where I control all the power, and if they want to address me, I'll open up to them, but I don't want to be the first one to do the addressing. I don't want to be that person that goes and looks for sympathy, because then they know that I'm weak and that I do need something from them, you know I do want something from them. Now it's to the point of where I do want something from them and I do need something from them, but I'm not going to get it. I want them to bring it to me and unless they you know, the only—if they can't see that then it's going to be a long, miserable time, because I'm... And I don't know why I do this but mentally, I'm committed to it. I'm committed to just avoiding it. I'm committed to being out of their lives and that's that. [0:46:03]
THERAPIST: Time is up. I need to cut you off there because we need to stop for today, okay?
CLIENT: Yes.
THERAPIST: So I'll see you next week.
CLIENT: All righty, thank you.
THERAPIST: Oh, thank you.
CLIENT: Have a good week.
THERAPIST: Okay, take care.
CLIENT: Thanks.
END TRANSCRIPT
