<font size="4"><b>Chapter Two: On the Ward: First Impressions</b></font>

I was admitted to the university medical centre, a large modern
teaching hospital on campus. Its psychiatric ward had about 25
beds. I brought a lot of fear to my first experience as a patient on a
psych ward and therefore a lot of hope: only desperation could
make hope outweigh the fear of putting my life and sanity in other
hands.


The ward is built in a circle, with the "nursing station" and staff
lounge in the centre, and patient areas along halls around it. The
staff's area was out-of-bounds to patients. The rooms seemed just
like other hospital rooms  small, clean, bare, impersonal  except
most of the beds were ordinary beds, not medical beds.


Near the patients' rooms are two "bubble rooms" completely
bare except for a mattress on the floor. No sheets or other bedding.
(They get their name from the windows in the doors that protrude
into the rooms like half-spheres, so someone outside can see every
corner of the room. The windows have curtains on the outside, so
patients cannot control whether they are open or closed.)


SJ and I were anxious to be convinced that these rooms were
therapeutic, not as bad as they seemed. We really wanted to believe
that this place was organized "for the best."


We were encouraged in our hope by the attitude of the staff who
were friendly and confident that every phase of the treatment was
designed for our good, even if it didn't seem so to us. They were
experts in problems like ours, we thought. Certainly they never
seemed cruel, seldom even angry.

[p. <i>22</i>]

There's a routine to admitting new patients  interviews with doctor
and nurse, and physical exam. I remember thinking some of the
nurse's questions absurd: "Do you hear messages especially for
you from the TV or radio?" It was standard admitting procedure to
ask for an explanation of some proverb, such as, "A rolling stone
gathers no moss" and "A bird in the hand is worth two in the bush."
Then she asked why I was in hospital, how did I get along with my
family, did I think people understood me?


After admission I was left to myself quite a bit, though likely I
was watched covertly. New patients are watched and generally
paid more attention than patients who are more predictable. I met
two other patients in my room  Genevieve and Tina. Tina was
only 13 or 14.


I was afraid. The air glinted with the spirits. The ward was very
brightly lit, every corner illuminated. The brightness was a two-edged
sword. I was afraid of the dark because the white spirits
showed up more in the dark, and it's always comforting to have a
light on when you're afraid. But the bright fluorescent lights made
everything garish: the air glinted and objects and colours glowed.
Likely I spent part of that first afternoon prowling the ward, checking
it out for spirits and getting my bearings.


I was interviewed by a resident on the first day in one of two
small and bare interviewing rooms. Each contained a few stark
plastic chairs and a desk holding a black ashtray and a box of
kleenex. (It was a measure of my defences that I never cried during
an interview on the ward and therefore never needed the kleenex.)


The interview began with introductions. There were two staff
present  both men around my age. The nurse seemed kindly but
bewildered; the doctor performed the introductions. He introduced
himself as Dr. C, introduced the nurse as Derek and called
me Shelagh.


They sat across from me, between me and the door. The nurse
said nothing. The doctor spoke softly and persistently across the
vibrating air. I never actually walked out, but in spirit I was
wrenching the door open, over and over, running down the hall, off
the ward.


My body seemed impossibly slow and heavy: it was no use

[p. <i>23</i>]

My chart said that "during [the first] interviews the patient
showed very flattened affect," that is, little emotion.
<a href="javascript: __showhidenote('_note_4472');">[note]</a><div id="_note_4472" style="display:none;background-color:#FFDD99;margin:0px;border:2px solid #800000; padding:2px;">1. I refer here to my family doctor's records, which consisted of reports sent to her
by the hospital, and which I saw several years later. I never tried to get my hospital
chart, which is by law the property of the hospital. Very few patients are
allowed to see their charts, or told what is in them.</div>
I was withdrawn,
quiet, and shy and do not as a rule show much emotion to
people I don't know well. I was also wary (justifiably, as I now
know) about giving staff any more power by revealing where I was
vulnerable. Be that as it may, my emotions had been tearing me
apart, and I was alone with them.


The doctor had an unusual English accent, which was hard to
understand. Eventually I got used to it, but in the first meeting he
had to repeat himself often. Besides, I wasn't attending that closely
to him.


During that interview I watched the air shimmer, listened to the
ringing that always heralded the spirits. I could sense their presence,
but as long as they were just milling about, the threat was
only potential. Everything glowed. Now I realize I was seeing
auras, but then I knew only that things glowed, almost always
when the spirits were coming. To this day, I become slightly
uneasy when I catch a glimpse of an aura.


Dr. C asked the same questions about the spirits that I'd been
asked several times before, at Emergency and out-patient psychiatry.
I asked if he couldn't read the notes made by the previous interviewers,
but he persisted so I imparted, in staccato fits and starts,
the usual information in answer to the usual pointed questions: no,
the spirits didn't remind me of anyone I knew. No, I hadn't seen
them before. I said they didn't seem intentionally malevolent; it
just seemed to be their nature to "take over" people, and they chose
me only because I was weak then  the way wolves will pick on the
slowest or most tired deer in a herd. We don't call a wolf malevolent
for being carnivorous.


As the admitting nurse had done, Dr. C asked about the "ringing
in my ears." Everyone put it that way, even though it didn't sound
like it was in my ears at all. Then he asked about Dale and the

[p. <i>24</i>]

Meanwhile, I was keeping a sharp look-out for the spirits. Often
the ringing blared and the room shouted with colour, but there was
no room for that in the doctor's question-and-answer agenda. It
was many interviews before I realized that it had not got through to
him that this patient, admitted for hearing ringing and seeing
colours and spirits, was, in fact, hearing ringing and seeing colours
and spirits.


After the initial interview with the resident I had to have another
interview in a room off the ward that had a microphone and a one-way
mirror. My two "screening sessions" were the most horrible
part of my whole experience on the ward. I didn't know who was
behind the mirror other than the head of the "team"  a steamroller
of a woman whom I'll never forget  because anyone who wanted
to could be there: any member of the "team" treating me and, so I
gathered, just about anyone else loosely connected with the hospital,
including students and others. It was (I was) all just more grist
for the teaching mill and I fiercely resented having to expose myself
to scrutiny when I was in such pain. Dr. C's sole concern seemed to
be to avoid keeping the Steamroller waiting.


The first screening session wasn't a success from the doctors'
viewpoint either. They got nowhere with me. (I say "they" because
usually only the resident was in the room with me but he kept
going out to confer with the Steamroller who was behind the mirror.)
I was both deliberately evasive and unintentionally vague.
The questions, which were all to do with taking a factual history,
seemed irrelevant to the point of offensiveness. I had enough to
deal with without trying to satisfy strangers' random curiosity.
When I tried to talk about what I'd heard about auras and astral
travel, Dr. C had no idea what I was talking about, and was openly
incredulous, so I backed off.


My thoughts were remarkably scattered. Words were a foreign
medium and my thoughts, unvoiced, were only a little less fractured.
Every question inspired about five different lines of reply
and I couldn't follow them all, much less voice and synthesize

[p. <i>25</i>]

I tried to choose the safest things to say, the most normal and
<i>expected</i> things. I volunteered nothing. For example, when I was
asked whether I had any brothers or sisters, I said "Yes." Period. I
never knew how what I said would be interpreted, but I did know
there would be consequences. I tried to give nothing away.


At one point the head of the "team" came in. She pursued a policy
common among therapists that resembles children finding a
tortoise on the road. If the tortoise is in its "house" so children can't
see it, they resort to poking it with sticks. At least then they can see
if it bleeds. Wielding questions like scalpels, she had me in tears in
about thirty seconds.


Because the screening session didn't go well, another was
scheduled for the next day. I wasn't told. I'd been told there would
only be one, but when I met Dr. C the next day, he began loping off
the ward with me trailing behind. (Most doctors walked faster than
most of their patients on the ward.)


Just as we got off the ward I became alarmed and asked where
we were going. When he told me, I refused to go and started back
for the ward. He insisted and I went, on condition that the Steamroller
would not barge in this time. How simple that sounds, but
his verbal insistence had the force of physical compulsion.


He didn't have to threaten me  and I don't think he ever did,
although later on another doctor regularly used threats to keep me
in line. But I had seen staff threaten other patients and force them to
take drugs or even drag them into the bubble rooms. I was on his
territory, and he had the power to certify me or discharge me or
treat me, all as he saw fit. He let me believe I had no choice.


I think I was more coherent at the second screening session, but
to little advantage: I finished up describing the spirits with "And
I'm <i>Christian</i> and I don't know what these spirits <i>are</i>." The doctor
said, "So that's a problem too" and never mentioned my Christian
faith again.


At least twice during the session there was a knock on the door
and Dr. C went outside, presumably to confer with Steamroller.

[p. <i>26</i>]

Therapy with him often could have benefited from a little
aggressive redirection to the events at hand, but I was afraid to be
aggressive. And I was ashamed.


The shame had begun with the pregnancy (really, I scolded
myself, to get pregnant in this day and age from carelessness) and
extended to the spirits. I felt sure that the spirits' ability to threaten
me lay in my weakness and depression. I often felt ugly, worthless,
afraid of the future, and embarrassed that I saw something others
couldn't see.


So it seemed an auspicious sign that this otherwise suspect
young doctor could walk through the head spirit and make him
disappear. I think that's what made me consider trusting him and
his hospital and his potions. God knows, I wanted to. When later I
began to see his aura I took that as a further good sign.


There were two teams of staff  Team A and Team B. Each team
was headed by a male psychiatrist. (I never so much as glimpsed
the head of my team.) There were the residents, that is medical doctors,
training in psychiatry, who spend three years practising in
therapy sessions on us. Then there were the nurses, who had most
contact with patients, and who supposedly were always available
to talk with the patients assigned to them. There was a large blackboard
on the wall just inside the ward, divided into two sections,
for Team A and Team B. Every day each patient's name appeared
on the board beside the name of the nurse assigned to him or her for
the day.


When I was first admitted the doctor asked me what I'd done the
day before and I couldn't remember. When he persisted I became
angry and said I'd likely done what I did every day and rhymed off
a typical routine. But actually I had no idea what I'd done the day
before, and it bugged me to have to admit it.


SJ and I requested a room together and she eased my adjustment

[p. <i>27</i>]

This ward was better than some. It had a music room with an old
record player, some records and a radio. There was a kitchen where
you could always make instant coffee or toast. There was a laundry
room with washer and dryer, although the washer broke when I'd
been there a few weeks. There was a tiny TV room which was
usually full of people and cigarette smoke and overflowing ashtrays.
(Almost everyone seemed to smoke heavily.) There was
even a ping pong table, which helped entertain visitors. Most
patients were on drugs that interfered with concentration and
co-ordination, so it wasn't exactly suited to us. Reading was
impossible for many patients because their medication either
blurred their vision or ruined their concentration. So we sat. Or ate.
Or smoked. Or all three.


Throughout my admissions, a flock of middle-aged women
maintained a presence. They knit and crocheted and did other
handwork. Sometimes they mothered other patients, but otherwise
they maintained a certain reserve and dignity. About the only
time you'd find them in their housecoats outside their rooms was
after shock treatment, when they were led like babies to a late
breakfast in the day room.


Most people walked "laps," around and around the circle of
halls of the ward, sometimes quickly, sometimes slowly. For variety
you could switch directions.


Scheduled diversions were therapy sessions, meals, meds (medications)
and "community meetings." Patients were expected to be
available whenever their doctors wanted them. So if you wanted a
weekend pass or change in medications or whatever, you couldn't
leave the ward until your doctor found time for you. We were
always waiting for something. The meds line-up at night was especially
long, everyone in housecoats except the middle-aged women

[p. <i>28</i>]

From 12:30 to 1:00 pm every weekday staff held a meeting for
patients and themselves. The staff would round us all up. A special
point could be made of bringing timid people, as part of their therapy.
All around the circle of chairs, staff and patients introduced
themselves by their first names; then staff led talk about "patients'
concerns"(!). For example, when there were loud disturbances on
the ward  security guards wrestling someone into a bubble room
or someone attempting suicide  staff explained to us that we were
upset and offered empty but firm assurance that all was well. If one
patient annoyed the others or, rarely, frightened others, staff told
us how we felt and what would make us feel better. Occasionally,
plans for patient activities would be discussed  a dance, an excursion.


It was such a charade, acting as though we were all in this
together. No one ever actually called a doctor by her or his first
name, and patients made no decisions of importance. I hated these
meetings and avoided them whenever I could. Sometimes staff
forced a particular patient to participate, by singling her out,
focussing the group's attention on her while she squirmed in
embarrassment, until the patient forced herself to speak. This was
as violating as if the patient had been made to undress in front of
us. I used to feel sick  with sympathy for the patient and dread that
I'd be next.


There were one or two patients who accepted utterly the notion
that they were sick and that their return to "normalcy" could be
gauged by their participation in these meetings. They raised concerns,
made plans, got other patients to participate. They were so
eager to please. I felt humiliated for them. Occasionally other
patients, in resisting this zealous peer pressure, could be just savage
to get them off their backs.


If you wanted a razor, shampoo, handwork or tampons you had
to ask staff. Tampons were given out by the handful, usually, it
seemed, by a male nurse. The other things were strictly guarded

[p. <i>29</i>]

There wasn't much acknowledgement of people's sexual
nature. The assumption seemed to be that mental patients are asexual.
The rules explicitly forbade sex on the ward; even married
couples had no privacy.


One patient, named Rhonda, was married, with a child. She
used to do her family's laundry on the ward. She had the same doctor
I had and she hated him. When she had a vaginal infection she
wanted another doctor (not a psychiatrist) to check it, but he
insisted that he was her doctor, so she had to let him give her a pelvic
exam. It must have felt like rape.


On the ward, friendship was very important. Unfortunately,
former patients were prohibited from visiting the ward. (Such visits
supposedly upset patients still on the ward.) This rule prevented
or hindered friendships from developing among patients,
thus cutting off important mutual support, and reinforcing
patients' dependence on professionals.


Ex-inmate activist Jim Spencley spent eight months in a Toronto
psychiatric hospital in 1988 and describes typical attitudes to
patient friendships:


One soon receives the message, from staff, that one mustn't
get too close and make friends with another inmate. Such
interaction is viewed with suspicion to say the least. Patients
are accused of ulterior motives, of raising the expectations of
the other too high, of interfering with "therapy," etc,  anything
to interfere with the possibility of friendship. And this
attitude of distrust is contagious. It isn't long before a new
inmate starts to view his fellow inmates with the same distrust
that he is viewed.

[p. <i>30</i>]

Thus the possibility of the best form of "therapy"  trust
and intimacy with another human being  is blocked. And
isolation, one of the real causes of crisis, is reinforced.
<a href="javascript: __showhidenote('_note_20496');">[note]</a><div id="_note_20496" style="display:none;background-color:#FFDD99;margin:0px;border:2px solid #800000; padding:2px;">2. This is taken from Jim's unpublished reply to an article extolling the virtues of a
Toronto psychiatric hospital which ran in the Toronto Star in 1988. Published
with the permission of Jim Spencley.</div>


Just as friendship was discouraged, so was any feeling of solidarity
among patients. I have a clear memory, which I wish I could disown,
of one night on the ward. I couldn't sleep because my room
was across from the bubble rooms and a man was locked in one of
them. He kept shouting for staff. He wasn't frantic, just determined.
He sounded ready to go on all night. I walked over to the
bubble room door. He was standing at the window. He looked at
me and stopped yelling. I told him to shut up, I was trying to sleep
and went back to bed.


Soon after I was admitted, the doctor said he wanted me to start
taking a "mind tranquillizer" called perphenazine. (I was so out of
it I thought he said "prevent-azine.") I was tired of gearing up for
all the interviews and worn out with the clanging of the ringing
sound and the luring of the spirits. And weary of the isolation, too. I
said, "My thoughts are so scattered." He said, "I know." And I
believed him. Perphenazine was supposed to help clear my
thoughts and, most important, it was supposed to stop me from
seeing the spirits.


Perphenazine <i>did</i> help. I actually stopped seeing the spirits! In a
matter of days, the ringing, the lights and colours and glints in the
air were less frequent, and before long I no longer even "sensed"
the spirits except as powerless possibilities. This was a huge relief
and brought the first feeling of relative safety I'd had in a long time.


My other experiences after taking the drugs  psychiatry likes to
call them "side effects"  were very unpleasant. My thoughts
slowed, and my tongue felt like a dead animal. My body became
jerky and slow and alien. My mouth was so dry that it was hard to
speak. This was common among patients. My tongue stuck to the
roof of my mouth and my lips stuck together. I took to carrying a
half pint of milk, or coffee, or water, everywhere on the ward. Even
so, talking involved embarrassing smacking sounds and much
futile lip-licking. My muscles stiffened. (Perphenazine made me

[p. <i>31</i>]

The worst of the "side effects" passed with time. What didn't
pass was the physical and mental sluggishness. Perphenazine may
have helped to "clear" my thoughts, but it also seemed to hang
them with lead weights.


In addition to perphenazine and cogentin, I, like almost every
other patient, was routinely given a minor tranquillizer at night to
sleep. I became very constipated. (For breakfast I ordered All-Bran
and <i>four</i> bran muffins. To no avail.)


I was warned of some of the effects of the drugs I was given, but I
was not warned that they might be permanent or dangerous. No
one mentioned tardive dyskinesia, which occurs in about 40% of
those who take neuroleptic drugs (also called anti-psychotics or
major tranquillizers) such as perphenazine. Tardive dyskinesia
makes people's limbs and face tremble or twitch. It can also make
the first finger and thumb rub uncontrollably together in a "pill-rolling"
motion. And if you've ever seen mental patients grimacing,
their tongues lolling or flicking in and out of the mouth, you've
likely seen the effects, not of their "illness" but of its "cure." And
it's permanent.


At the time, the unpleasant effects of the drugs seemed a small
price to pay. I was profoundly thankful to be free of the spirits. I
slept and ate better. I was almost euphoric. Everything was going
to be okay! SJ was feeling better too and we spent companionable
hours together.


I wasn't prepared for what happened next. Or rather, what
didn't happen. I remained confused.


Things seemed distant. People seemed far away; my feet
seemed far away. Furniture was not always where it seemed  my
depth perception was different. People seemed distant from their
words. Words were disconnected from sense and consequence.
There was radical discontinuity. I did not expect people to see me
or recognize me, but this does not mean I thought I was invisible. It

[p. <i>32</i>]

Once I was on perphenazine, the world wasn't so vividly awry
or immediately threatening, but it was still distant, foreign and
frightening. There was no sense or meaning. Following the initial
spurt of excitement and optimism I had little energy or interest in
doing anything. I suddenly became very timid and frightened of
even small daily tasks, and was afraid to think of the future.


I was encouraged to leave the ward and spend time at home, but
wherever I was, I would sit for a long time, just staring, and feeling
too heavy and grey to move. Dr. C told me I wasn't "depressed."
Depression involves feeling sadness, apathy, emotional pain,
hopelessness, guilt, fear and apprehension, low self-esteem, lack of
interest and enjoyment, lack of appetite, insomnia. I avoided having
to admit these feelings even when I was aware of them. I didn't
trust staff enough to talk about them. What I felt most was loss. I
didn't know where my work was going, who I was. Before, I had
struck people as independent and self-possessed. Now I felt frightened
of almost everything.


Once I was safe from the spirits my attitude to the hospital and
my doctor underwent a dramatic change. However awful I felt,
"they" had worked a miracle. I was less suspicious that I was going
to be pronounced incurably crazy and relegated to some dusty
institution. Maybe I didn't know who I was anymore, but I knew
who they were, especially Dr. C.


Dr. C's freeing me from the spirits, as I thought of it, seemed
proof of his strength and competence in the game of life, and my
weakness and incompetence seemed to increase in direct proportion
to his growing stature. So the built-in gap between superior
and inferior, strong and weak, in the health-care system was
affirmed and widened.


Not only did I feel dependent on the hospital after I'd been in for
a while and perphenazine had begun to work, I also felt, eventually,
greater despair.


I felt I wasn't the same as I had been before the spirits, my <i>life</i>

[p. <i>33</i>]

The need to fight the spirits mitigated the self-sabotaging effects
of despair, because I couldn't be unkind to myself or down on
myself or give up on myself when my self was in such imminent
danger from outsiders. Once the perphenazine had rendered the
spirits powerless I still had to deal with the effects of the stress I'd
been under  exhaustion not least among them. And I felt like a failure.
I was way behind in my work, ineligible for bursaries. More
and more I disliked and blamed myself.


The "heavy and grey" feeling was both a feeling and my perception
of the world, but I had to become much more depressed before
I realized that "heavy" was tears and dread, and "grey" was confusion
and no sense of myself as a functioning, powerful individual.

