Transcript of Audio File:
______________________________________________________________________________
BEGIN TRANSCRIPT:
THERAPIST: How are things today? You left really really upset yesterday.
CLIENT: Things are better, um, well at first they were worse um, because, so I did try moving yesterday, like getting some of the stuff done and like I was also cleaning the fridge um, then Sydney had to go home and make dinner for his housemates and he said he was gonna like you know, be about an hour/hour and a half.
And then it kept on being longer and longer and, like it turned out he needed time for himself and something that I was like relying on him to help me move so I was getting more and more nervous about the fact that I wasn't going to get the moving done. You know, if he had just, told me ahead of time it would have been one thing. But like, in this case, his me time was negatively affecting me.
THERAPIST: And you didn't have a plan around it because you didn't know that he needed his time. [00:01:00]
CLIENT: And so what I ended up doing, you know I moved some of the smaller things. He did end up coming over in the evening, we talked and stuff and I felt really bad 'cuz like he was having a panic attack and it just felt like, (pause) um, I don't know like, I do want him to have alone time, I just wanted to get the moving done but he said you know that like all it's been all about you lately with like moving you and... I'm like, I just wanted once, like the moving is what's making me stressed I think, and then I can go back to like you know. You know and he doesn't, because then we were talking today more, and he was like you know, his alone time doesn't have to even be necessarily be away from me. He's like ok, like you know, like computer games in my room while I'm like downstairs in the dining room or something like that. But.
THERAPIST: Are you feeling like you're not getting enough time? Or? With him?[00:02:03]
CLIENT: No. I'm fine with the amount of time I spend with him and I'm fine with having that be like somewhat less for him to have me time, I just wanted to move and he had promised he'd help me and it got me agitated.
THERAPIST: Mmhm.
CLIENT: So, yeah, then I ended up calling my parents because I was like, screw it I need to get this done now. So I talked to my mom and my dad and was already asleep at that point, um and told her about how like you know, when I was asking for the money it wasn't that I was asking for more money I was asking for a budget on like how much are you good to spend without feeling guilty because I am going to have to spend money no matter what and I just didn't want to have to feel guilty about it anymore.
And I like really was trying with the job search but by asking me to apply for the temp agency she was essentially telling me to conduct two job searches and stuff like that. And everything else. You know so she apologized and she didn't mean to be stressing me out and was ok that the money didn't have to be loaned and stuff. Cuz it really wasn't like they were you know that one hundred dollars or whatever like was going to make that much a difference it was more my dad was all like, Georgia's being all irresponsible or something. So. [00:03:27]
THERAPIST: So were you able to set an expectation for what uh, reasonable amount of money for you to be spending?
CLIENT: Well now it is like with the plan we were going to have before about giving me the hundred dollars every other week thing, which is probably going to be more than I do spend. Um, but the rest of that money will just turn into... Like I don't think it's like really taking more of my parent's money because I then would use the rest of that money for rent and it will just be that I will have to ask them for other money like, less soon. Um, if that makes any sense. So, yeah, it's not like they you know So yes, so that's the expectation now. [00:04:22]
THERAPIST: That sounds a lot more clear and it sounds like you feel a lot more comfortable with the messages they're sending.
CLIENT: Yeah, so.
THERAPIST: I'm glad to hear that, you were really fretting about it yesterday.
CLIENT: Today was like, ok well I guess we'll get more moving done and stuff but we ended up, like I ended up having another freak out today because someone had bought like a, I had these, the whole thing, like I dyed a bunch of skeins, mini skeins of yarn and they were in all these colors and like sets, and I had one set left and I had put it up because it had originally made like eleven different kinds, like different colors and so I had like sets and I had one set left.
And I had put it up because it had originally made like eleven different kinds, like different colors and so I had like three sets of six and three sets of five and so that last set of five. I had listed it and then this morning I was going to put together her order and realized that one of those five skeins was missing. And I don't know if I like gave it to someone else or what. Like, you know gave someone an extra, which, but so then I had to like message her and I was like freaking out about that in terms of like oh my god I'm like the worse seller ever. Because I like make mistake in my stock that like I shouldn't have listed if I didn't have it but I thought I did have it. And I made three sets and I have the other four so it's just that one. [00:05:38]
So, like it was accidently misplaced? You know what if she decided just to give me negative review rather than working with me, which you know would have been within her rights.
THERAPIST: Has she responded?
CLIENT: She did. Cuz I gave her the options of either being refunded the cost of that one skein, being refunded that whole set, um refunding the entire order or me making a new one and like sending out what I have now and then that other one after it's done. And saying... [00:06:12]
THERAPIST: You were very reasonable and gave her lots of choices.
CLIENT: Yeah and she actually responded like, she was fine with me like you know just making the new one and then sending it all out when I'm done. So I don't have to like eat the extra shipping cost which wouldn't have been that much. But um, well yeah, cuz I was like, you know, cuz it was also like oh I also have to move and do all these other things that's unfinished cuz I haven't finished moving. And...yeah. Now most of it's like, I was considering giving up my (inaudible at 00:06:41) but I didn't. Um. [00:06:45]
So I have to calm down, that's the thing, all these little things are setting me off now.
THERAPIST: And you're having really strong reactions to everything.
CLIENT: Cuz I don't know if it's just a going under or I'm undergoing more stress than I ever have or if it's like some chemical thing or something like that.
THERAPIST: Well stress is cumulative, so you know; you've been worried about your job search now for several months and are continually feeling under pressure to look for a job and being upset that you haven't found one yet. You know there are, you're aware of how much that's bothering you to more or less than to be over time. But it is, it wears you down and it takes emotional energy to cope with kind of that constant worry about you know, looking for a job. [00:07:33]
CLIENT: And I did today actually look and like apply for a job in MIT.
THERAPIST: Good for you.
CLIENT: It's a three year term appointment. I was like I could totally do that. And they wanted two years of archival experience and I'm like, you know if you add up my internships together it probably is about that much.
THERAPIST: Mmhm.
CLIENT: So.
THERAPIST: Good for you for finding that and applying.
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: I think the stress is cumulative and so you have very little resources when another thing pops up to use, to kind of use your coping resources to mitigate your response and it's like you're going from zero to sixty really fast. [00:08:14]
CLIENT: yeah.
THERAPIST: And you do a lovely job problem solving and noticing that, oop I'm missing a skein, let's think about some good options to give this buyer and I think you made all the reasonable choices and steps you can make.
CLIENT: Except that I did them all freaking out.
THERAPIST: Except that you did the, right, except that you weren't kind of able to tolerate the anxiety of not knowing what her response would be until you found out what it was.
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: Because if you had been able to put that on hold and just sort of talk yourself down and wait for her response before freaking out or not freaking out you would have felt a lot better. But instead you freaked out about all what could go on before anything really did. I mean, yes you were missing the skein, but no she didn't give you a bad review. No she wasn't really angry. Nothing bad actually happened because she was willing to you know, hold on and wait for you to have the full set. [00:09:12]
CLIENT: Well, just when you order something online, like you know it's not guaranteed that that person will ship out that day or the next day, it's just like something that I try to do, unless it's ordered over the weekend, like I will ship it out that day or the next day.
THERAPIST: And I think that most people are pretty reasonable and know that you know, mistakes happen. And most people are willing to take a reasonable solution to solving the problem. And you know, I'm sure you've you know, ordered something and oop, they're out of your size, or you know? Things happen. Most people have had experiences where things don't go exactly the way they want them to. [00:09:54]
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: It sounds like she was a very reasonable person and recognized that there was a human error. So she was human about it.
CLIENT: Yeah, and the whole thing is I haven't had much (inaudible at 00:10:09) today. If it weren't for having that moving hanging over my head, I could have just not said anything at all and dyed a new one today.
THERAPIST: But that wasn't necessary either. Like, yes if all those things were in place, you could have done that, but it wasn't necessary, she's not...
CLIENT: Well I meant I could have not told her there was one missing in the first place and sent it out you know slightly later than I usually would, but within a reasonable timeframe. [00:10:35]
THERAPIST: But you didn't have to hide it from her. I guess you could have but you don't need to.
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: And I think trying to hold those kind of thoughts, it doesn't need to be perfect whether it be moving on schedule or spending an exact amount of money, it's ok for you to not have things go exactly how you think they should go and just be able to breathe through that. You don't have to subject yourself to such extreme feelings. [00:11:15]
CLIENT: I don't know how to like get through like this kind of like ball of stress like, I feel like some of it won't go away until I solve it. So like you know maybe I'll stop feeling quite so stressed when I have my stuff moved. And like I am gonna get, my parents are gonna bring the dresser up on Sunday, um.
THERAPIST: So these little things help. Getting some of these little details.
CLIENT: But it won't like solve like the big I don't have a job issue. [00:11:44]
THERAPIST: Right, the big problem is not solvable. And until that time, what is under your control is trying to find ways to sort of balance the stress level. So, some things that help, not to erase the worry but to give you more coping resources to balance that. Things like getting adequate sleep.
CLIENT: Which I actually have been doing.
THERAPIST: Great.
CLIENT: Like, I think I've been eating ok.
THERAPIST: Have you been able to walk? Walking a lot usually helps you to feel better.
CLIENT: That's the one thing is that I haven't really been exercising that much. And so maybe I should like get better at doing that. [00:12:25]
THERAPIST: So that's something that's just helped you to feel better about yourself. One thing you know I've noticed is times when you're walking you know, whether it's taking the long way to commute or just going for a walk with a friend. Those are times that you have felt better about yourself. Does that make you not worry about money? No. [00:12:44]
But it, it, it's like all these little things, you know, all the different worries chip away at it, so if you can do things to build up feeling better about yourself and sometimes you get a little bit of mood lift and anxiety release from lots of exercise? It might help you to be able to cope with the additional stressors that inevitably pop up. So if there's a way to schedule that in, you know, even if it's you know, taking a walk with Sydney or taking a walk with one of your housemates, or meeting a friend, or. [00:13:14]
CLIENT: Yeah, I'm not sure how to, maybe for right now, today it's like, I don't want to do like, like I'm busy, I get home from here, I like, and then the next thing I have that I'm busy from seven twenty to like I'm done with rehearsal, so.
THERAPIST: So we're not going to fit it in today.
CLIENT: No, it's not gonna fit in today, I mean I could like, like I also have to decide whether or not I should like cancel going to the historical society tomorrow so I can spend the time moving. Which is what I'm considering doing. [00:13:46]
THERAPIST: How many hours do they expect you at the historical society?
CLIENT: They don't. It's basically a come in whenever you can, it's awesome that you're coming in. yay, you're making things into an archive. Like that's pretty much what they've said to me, and not to feel guilty when I can't. So, I really could just cancel going tomorrow and use that time for moving and work. Dying the yarn. So maybe I'll do that. [00:14:23]
THERAPIST: You might, I wonder, if it would help, how it would feel to you to set up sort of a structured schedule for yourself? Day to day, if it had some regularity?
CLIENT: Like eating at the same time sort of thing? Or like?
THERAPIST: Eating at the same time, also you know, doing, setting yourself up kind of a schedule for the historical society for going in. You know, kind of at a regular time? [00:14:54]
CLIENT: I mean I would be going in around like somewhere between ten and eleven and leaving around two. That is like set because Denise works from ten to two. So, um, approximately.
THERAPIST: And this is like once a week, twice a week?
CLIENT: Once or twice a week, I think I might just have it be once a week. Cuz originally I was like totally twice a week, but now I'm like for the longest time been looking for jobs or just not being stressed, I think I should do it once a week. Um, but um, (pause) yeah. [00:15:29]
I don't know it's really hard, like I can, you know, it's sort of like in theory, most nights I would be having dinner at six thirty if I'm eating out, but then if I go out with Sydney then it's slightly different timing and then like, yeah, things are kind amorphous, I don't know.
THERAPIST: And I, um, well yeah, I get that sense that things feel very amorphous because there's not a rigid schedule that you really need to adhere to. I mean there's things, you know like, I should be walking and stuff like that, but everything else can kind of get moved to wherever you want to move it that day. [00:16:05]
And while it seems like that would feel more relaxed, a lot of people have anxiety with that because it's like you're constantly having to make decisions rather than having things just be set and not having to think about them. It leaves a lot of room for you to think about well when's it best to do that, when's it best to do that, well maybe I should do that instead. Where as if there set in stone, you just do without thinking. [00:16:30]
And I wonder if it would feel, if it might actually be a little bit easier to kind of set yourself up on a schedule where I get up at this time, I look over the jobs for an hour after breakfast. I then go you know to the historical society from ten to two. Then I go home and have more regular rhythm to a week. You know, it might not be every day is exactly the same but that you know what's gonna happen every day.
CLIENT: I could, the problem with doing that, is that like I know that it is an artificially set schedule that's like not set in stone. Because even if I say something, like it's not like I have a job that I have to get to from that, you know, that part of the day. It isn't like you know, other of the things that are scheduled like (inaudible at 00:17:15) and what not, like, the rest of the time it's arbitrary. So it would be hard to get me to believe in something that I'm arbitrarily doing. [00:17:24]
THERAPIST: Why not be accountable to yourself?
CLIENT: For the, like I'd have less motivation to live up to it. Then I would just get more disappointed when I, I don't know. It's like I'm really bad at like setting fake deadlines for myself.
THERAPIST: It's not fake, it's uh, it's a, it's your own expectation, it, your expectations can be very real. Yes it's being accountable to you, it's not accountable to somebody else, it's not a schedule somebody else has imposed on you. [00:18:03]
CLIENT: True.
THERAPIST: But it can be very real if it's something that would be useful for you.
CLIENT: The other problem is that you know, is like that it's not just me in the equation, if I'm spending time with Sydney like he does something that would depend on his schedule. Some of those things are set in stone that I can like put in my schedule, but like you know he has therapy on Wednesday mornings at eleven forty five. So that is something that I you know is like case, or maybe it's ten forty five, but whatever it is you know, it's like that's his, like he has that weekly then the rest of his schedule is also kind amorphous. Like he has a few other things that are going on, but it's not set in stone either. [00:18:50]
Like I have more things that are set than he does. So. Oh and then he cooks for his housemates on Monday nights. And he always likes to do the grocery shopping like that day for that meal, rather than like having lots of groceries in the house already and cooking. So, he has that. The time for that. But, um, yeah.
So a lot of it like you know, with the whole moving thing, like if it were just me, well the problem is if it were just me I wouldn't be able to carry all the things. But um, if I were able to carry all the things like you know, I would have scheduled that time and did it, done it already. But it was also based on like you know, like Sydney needed his me time and that's ok I just wish he had like figured that out before saying that he would help me move that evening. Yes he would be ok helping me and stuff. [00:19:52]
I always check with him that it's ok, it's just that then he needs, will change his mind about, like, you know and I don't, it's not his fault per se, like I don't blame him...
THERAPIST: Sounds like you're a little angry with him.
CLIENT: Well, just a little bit bitter about the fact that like, I could have been moved by now if only I had, but there's no way to plan for like either of us having panic attacks so. Like.
THERAPIST: But his got in the way. [00:20:27]
CLIENT: Yeah. It's like you know, then I can't rely on him, which if I go, you know, you know and I can't rely on him, I guess you know, if you can't rely on someone then you just stop relying on them. But he keeps on being like no I can help you with this; I can do it I don't mind. And, you know. Yeah.
THERAPIST: Well it sounds like you're beginning to feel dependent?
CLIENT: Yeah, I need to not do that. [00:21:01]
THERAPIST: People do rely on one another. They do depend on each other for certain things, and it sounds like what felt so super frustrating to you is that you couldn't come up with a reasonable plan b. It felt really unreasonable for you to have to delay moving. And you didn't feel like you had another way of getting stuff moved. So you felt very trapped and stuck. And that partly also I mean, I know I heard those same feelings sort of echoed yesterday. You felt very trapped and stuff in regard to the money, because you couldn't really feel like you had a plan b that was reasonable.
Being homeless wasn't reasonable. It didn't feel reasonable to apply to the temporary agency. You didn't feel like you had reasonable options. So you felt very stuck and trapped. And it sounds like that feeling happened again last night when you were waiting for him and not knowing when, when he would be able to help you move. [00:22:06]
CLIENT: Yeah, I mean, if I had a car and stuff. I mean but not for the moving but for other things, you know like (pause), like it's like on the one hand he like doesn't want me to be all dependent on him but on the other hand he like, you know, or like completely dependent on him. But he likes helping me, like he likes giving me rides and stuff like that, um, so it's like, like being able to predict whether or not he is gonna feel up to it is something I can't do.
You know, I can just look at it only to look at it like you want me to think that would be absolutely necessary. Like, the thing is also, when I am staying at his place I feel more trapped because he's like, like there's public transportation from his place but it's a lot less like quick and direct. Because he's all the way out in Framingham, so like... [00:23:03]
THERAPIST: So how do you get from his place to your place if he doesn't drive you?
CLIENT: I don't. Like I've actually never gotten from his place to my place without driving. He's never, other than the first time he's never gone to my place without driving himself.
THERAPIST: But so, let's come up with some, I think what might help you to feel less reliant and trapped is to know what your plan b is.
CLIENT: I mean like I guess a plan b would have to be like something along the lines of like ok let's walk down and take the red line, and then walk from the red line to his place, which is doable but if I'm carrying heavy things, it's not something I'd like doing.
THERAPIST: How do you get from here to home?
CLIENT: Here to home normally, today he's giving me a ride so we can like have more time to do thing, moving, but um, if... [00:23:55]
THERAPIST: But you've been coming here way before he...
CLIENT: I guess what I normally would do would be taking the sixty eight or sixty nine bus. Or maybe the one if neither of those are coming any time soon.
THERAPIST: So if he's in Framingham can you take the red line from there to here and then that same bus home?
CLIENT: Well um, you mean the coming to therapy. [00:24:18]
THERAPIST: But I'm saying if you're at his house and he can't give you a ride back for some reason. He has a panic attack and doesn't feel safe driving, his car breaks down.
CLIENT: I think it would be easier to then take the redline to (pause) central and the, the ten minute walk from central to my place.
THERAPIST: Yeah, you're not trapped anymore.
CLIENT: Well no but then if I'm carrying heavy things, it's not like, you know and I might be carrying, you know if I'm not carrying things I'm totally fine you know doing whatever. I mean I can carry things and do it, but it's just you know, I don't want to like damage my back more. [00:24:58]
THERAPIST: Mmhm.
CLIENT: So, like yesterday like he was gonna um, I think originally he was going to give me a ride home from therapy, I asked him if he was ok with it. And he was like, actually could you take the bus home, and I was like sure and I took the bus home. But.
THERAPIST: Yeah, you navigated very well before you met him.
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: And you can still navigate, and if, if for some reason you know he was able to give you a ride to one place, to his place and you had a lot of stuff.
CLIENT: I could leave my stuff.
THERAPIST: Yeah, you're gonna be back there again. It might mean deciding what to carry with you and go without for a night and what not, I think this is when you get really stressed it's harder for you to see these options. [00:25:48]
CLIENT: And I also have less control in his kitchen because like, like I said before he likes grocery shopping for each meal. So like, and also because his roommates, it's this weird thing where they cook for each other but like they don't co-op food so if you like have leftovers of meals those leftovers belong to you. And not, there's like no communal leftovers, there's not, no communal, maybe the milk is communal but that's it.
But then because like a lot of people in their house don't eat the leftovers so like the fridge is full. So it isn't like.
THERAPIST: It's not like food you can just have. [00:26:22]
CLIENT: Yeah so it's not like I can just normally. And I guess if I'm going now to try and lose weight and like drinking the slim fast shakes I can get a container of slim fast and keep it at his place. But like for that, it was like I felt even out of control of like, what would I do for breakfast. Or like I mean I can't really make myself lunch at his place. It's not like he has pasta at his place or something like that.
THERAPIST: But if you find that you're spending a lot of time at his house, could you do that, like keep some food there? Can you cook there or is it not kosher? [00:26:52]
CLIENT: I mean I'm ok using his non kosher dishes at his place to cook things in, I have kosher ingredients for. Like I'm ok with that so I've made that decision. I mean it was the same thing when I was dating Mark. His dishes weren't kosher either. So I've already made that decision. But um, no it's more like they just don't have much storage space for food and like, because it isn't communal, like I mean I guess I could get a loaf of bread or something like that and make French toast or something, but like I need to actually do that in order to have that be an option for me. Like it isn't like it can be worse. [00:27:26]
At my house I can eat whatever and you know if he wants food he knows that the food is communal and like he can like grab a bowl of cereal or something like that. Like. Yeah.
THERAPIST: So it seems like feeling out of control, feeling trapped sometimes cuz there aren't a lot, cuz it's hard to find the options.
CLIENT: The other one now is like rehearsal. For like the Tuesday night rehearsal, I mean it changed while we were, before I was dating him. Like it was like nine to eleven which was already late. But like, I would, I guess often get a ride if I could, like from Lily. Cuz Lily would pick up where I, but um, now, but Lily doesn't actually go in her car. It belongs to her dad. So like right now I guess her dad has been using her car more. So Morrow hasn't been able to get rides from Lily which means that I don't get rides which means that I would be walking home at eleven.
Now rehearsal is nine twenty to eleven twenty because of some people.
THERAPIST: That is really late. [00:28:31]
CLIENT: I know, and so that's like beyond the point of, I mean eleven is already pushing it, but then it's like the other.
THERAPIST: That is not a safe time to be walking.
CLIENT: Yeah like, so Sydney has been giving me rides sometimes, except that now it's like yeah if the rides aren't happening, then it's like. You know my parents don't want me walking home so now they're like ok, paying for the cab ride, but it feels kind of ridiculous so like. So it's either rely on Sydney or rely on my parents to give me the money to take a cab home.
THERAPIST: But I think in this case, you know, your parents have said they don't feel comfortable with you walking at that time. So it seems like, [00:29:06]
CLIENT: They don't even know about when I got mugged cuz I never told them.
THERAPIST: That seems like they're giving you full permission almost asking you to pay for the cab ride home. And that's really the safe choice there. You don't need to feel reliant on his ride because your parents have given you permission, have asked you at that time of night to take a cab ride.
CLIENT: Mmhm.
THERAPIST: So it's ok to take that option.
CLIENT: Mmhm. But I'm sure they would also prefer if Sydney would give me, could give me a ride and not spend money on a cab, but I don't want to rely on him. Either way it's relying on someone. Or walk home unsafely, which is. [00:30:01]
THERAPIST: This is not the safe choice.
CLIENT: It's not the safe choice, it's not like it's as unreasonable as being homeless.
THERAPIST: Not as unreasonable, but let's not go there.
CLIENT: Because the other thing.
THERAPIST: What is the point of making that comparison?
CLIENT: Well you were saying that I didn't have reasonable options. And in this case it's not like this is completely unreasonable.
THERAPIST: But they've asked you to take a cab at that time so why wouldn't you do that if that is what feels better for you and also what feels better for them.
CLIENT: Because then I feel guilty about spending their money even if they ask me to. And it's not like they actually always give me money for cabs every time like you know. It's still like money... [00:30:37]
THERAPIST: But they give you money, they give you an amount of money and they've said that this is a legitimate thing to spend it on.
CLIENT: Uh huh. It's just so annoying because I've previously. Uh yeah the thing I did before that, was up until spring 2011, Avery was in the crew. And Avery was a friend, you know and we'd walk back together and so I don't have that anymore.
THERAPIST: So circumstances have changed and you need to be able to change with them. But not sacrifice your safety, that's not a reasonable thing to give up.
CLIENT: I wish Jauncy would give me the money for the cabs because it's like their fault for moving rehearsal and I have like. Well, yeah cuz I'm, well anymore it's like females so if he's taking like the T back to Framingham it's like less dangerous for him. So I'm really like the only one who's walking like far home off campus and stuff like that really late at night. And they were the ones who. I could potentially ask them. [00:31:36]
THERAPIST: But they're responsible for the timing of the rehearsal but they're not responsible for where people live.
CLIENT: No, but I told them that I really didn't want rehearsal to be that late. I objected to rehearsal at nine to eleven and asked if it could be moved earlier again. Cuz in the old days it used to be earlier and we would just rehearse in the building but people liked having the music rooms better.
Now it is like other people's schedules. But I was in the group before other people were in the group. And other people in the group who want them to have the rehearsal moved later for them don't live really far off campus. And they're male. So. Just seems incredibly unfair that I'm put into a position of relying on my parents because this acapella group decided to move rehearsals to a ridiculously late time. [00:32:26]
THERAPIST: It is a very late time. It sounds like you feel like the decision is personal.
CLIENT: No, nothing personal, it's just like they didn't take my wishes into account. Um.
THERAPIST: Not above and beyond somebody else's. They may have taken them into account but they didn't over rule other people's wishes.
CLIENT: Yeah and cuz the difference is like I can come to rehearsal I just have to pay for a cab or arrange a ride or something rather than um.
THERAPIST: Not being able to make it.
CLIENT: Yeah people not being able to make it like, if I told them I cannot make it after eleven that would be one thing. But technically I can.
THERAPIST: It means you have to make another choice you know, to either sacrifice your safety or use some of your parent's money or rely on someone for a ride. [00:33:20]
CLIENT: Yeah, I wish there was like some free option or something like that. Yeah, I mean I can ask ahead of time like whether or not Braden is getting a ride from Lily.
THERAPIST: Yeah, you could.
CLIENT: Which is where we schedule carpools. Um but it's yeah. But when Lily doesn't have the car then I can't get a ride. But when she does have the car I can get a ride. Like every time she has the car I can get a ride.
THERAPIST: So you keep your options, that's a good option when she has a car. And taking advantage of the offer your parents have made to pay for that cab ride. You know whether it's out of the money they've already given you of if you have to ask for a few dollars more one month because you've had a, you know some rehearsals and you had to pay for the ride. It sounds like they would feel that was a perfectly acceptable use of the money. [00:34:11]
CLIENT: Mmhm. Usually it's about a seven or eight dollar cab ride.
THERAPIST: So, then document that that is what it is. And if you do have to ask for ten dollars more or twenty dollars more because of it. They've said that this is a choice that they're more comfortable with than you walking at night.
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: I think, you know when you feel yourself starting to get anxious, maybe asking that question, is this a reasonable thing to give up. So that both of those scenarios, is giving up your house and being homeless reasonable? No. Is giving up your safety reasonable? No. Safety is not, safety and health those are not reasonable things to give up.
CLIENT: Here's the thing, like giving up your home, you're giving up your home, you're not necessarily giving up your safety by walking. You know, people that I've known have walked from the university to my place without getting hurt. [00:35:15]
THERAPIST: It's a risk right?
CLIENT: It's a risk, I'm not completely giving up my safety though.
THERAPIST: You're not guaranteed that something bad will happen.
THERAPIST: So I guess is that a level of risk, I guess a more accurate question. Is it the level of risk of your safety or your comfort. I mean you would, I think, you know you've talked about feeling anxious walking out at night based on your past experiences. Is that something that is worth giving up. Ask yourself those questions before, before you start to experience the really intense anxiety or really intense guilt that you felt yesterday. It might be a way to help you hold on, before that happens. [00:36:04]
CLIENT: What happens when there are no good reasonable solutions at all? They're all somewhat, I mean I guess they're, I just wish they were better. If I had a job none of this would be a problem.
THERAPIST: Yup. Sometimes the choices are easier to make than others.
CLIENT: Definitely if I had a job that had a car. Cuz then I could just drive to rehearsal.
THERAPIST: Yup that would be easiest solution. Sometimes there are no, sometimes it feels like there are no really good choices and you have to make the one that is best. Sometimes that's easy and sometimes it's hard to find the best solution. But. Usually you can find one that feels at least manageable. Why don't we stop there for today? Nope I'm off, you have five more minutes, we started at four thirty. Are there other things that you feel that we should, important to catch up today or talk about that we haven't? [00:37:06]
CLIENT: This one thing from like, if it is a stressor if there is something wrong with my chemical mental balance or anything like that.
THERAPIST: I think that you're in a really stressful situation. The idea of, of medication has really perpetuated this belief that there is a certain chemical mix in your head that's right or wrong. And that's not actually how your brain and neurotransmitters work. So it's not that there's this balance and that you would have a rush of serotonin or a decrease in you know, norepinephrine which is another chemical that is in your brain. [00:37:56]
So it is very unlikely, it doesn't work exactly like that. Um, yes people have different sets of feelings that happen over time, but there isn't a direct correlation to neurotransmitters which are the chemicals that people talk about being in your brain when you talk about chemical imbalances.
You're reacting to what you know, in my, in my um, impression you're reacting to something that's been going on and is building up because you haven't had real relief from some of these big worries for a long time now. [00:38:35]
CLIENT: It just doesn't seem like I, uh, it doesn't seem like it's a reasonable level though.
THERAPIST: I think your level of anxiety is really high, absolutely.
CLIENT: And that is a question, like is something wrong, or is it the way I would react to this much stress. I mean maybe I need to be better about taking my anti anxiety meds when I need it.
THERAPIST: This is a good time to increase your use of them. I don't think you're talking about two things that don't go together. Is the way that you're responding reasonable to the level of stress that you're under? This is reasonable for you. Is this how somebody else would react? Without a history of anxiety? Probably not. [00:39:19]
Your reactions are more extreme, but that's starting and taking into account what is your base line? So this is, I think not, I don't think something really different is going on with you than from where you started. You know if you compared you to somebody else in your house. I don't know anybody in your house. Random Joe Smoe, um, who has no history of anxiety, your react, you react differently than that person and you know that's because of, you know, everybody has their own set of reactions, their own set of experiences that form how they react to the next thing. [00:39:58]
So yes, I absolutely agree that your reaction to the conversation you had with your parents was very intense. Is something dramatically different with you than it was a year ago? No. But you know you have prescriptions and this is what they're for. This is a time of high stress; you are more sensitive to those stressors right now. So then your threshold for taking an you know, anti-anxiety pill gets lower. Be a little bit quicker to use them than you normally would because your coping resources are down that means you have to rely a little bit more heavily on other ones. [00:40:38]
So like you said, you've been really good about getting sleep. That's one of your ways of coping. I think we can try to find a way to add in a little bit more exercise because that usually improves your mood. And you rely on your meds maybe a little bit more than you would if you had a less stressful period of your life. And you schedule extra sessions as you need them, that's another way of upping your support. So with that in mind, do you want to come in Friday or do you feel ok to wait till Monday? Or do you want to see how you do tomorrow and call me on Thursday?
CLIENT: Let's see how I do tomorrow and call you on Thursday. I mean I probably will be ok, but who knows if something else will set me off. [00:41:24]
THERAPIST: Yeah I think I have some appointments available around my lunch time.
END TRANSCRIPT
