TRANSCRIPT OF AUDIO FILE:
______________________________________________________________________________
BEGIN TRANSCRIPT:


COUNSELOR: This, is Client #0735-103. Client #0735-103. This, is June 22, 1970. June 22, 1970, Session #2. Number is #0735-103.


(typewriter in background 0:48)


PATIENT: You're going like 90 miles an hour over there, it seems like. I have a question.


COUNSELOR: Sure.


PATIENT: How long will it be before I hear some results from this?


COUNSELOR: Oh, yeah...


PATIENT: ... or will it just be this all the time?


COUNSELOR: What kind of results did you have in mind?


PATIENT: Well, I talked to my wife about the tape and she said that she was under the impression that these would be analyzed and I thought that maybe I would... She said that they'd be analyzed by a team, I think she indicated. I suppose I'll hear something from them on what the problem they thought might be... (inaudible at 2:01)


COUNSELOR: Oh. No. It really doesn't work that way. I don't know exactly what the person who is doing research is going to be doing with tapes. I think whatever kind of analysis he uses on them, he won't be thinking at all in terms of you as the individual person and your particular problem. He'll be trying to think about the general hypothesis about all of the people who come to therapy and are there any general things that are true of therapy for everyone.


(Audio break 2:51-3:05)


PATIENT: So what am I supposed to talk about today?


(Audio break 3:05-3:21)


PATIENT: Do they pick up themes from these by listening to several of them and see if there's some concurring theme that's brought up each time? Is that what...


COUNSELOR: I don't think so. (phone rings) (offline phone conversation 3:34-:4:01) From what you're saying, it sounds like one thing you'd really like is to be given by me or someone else some sort of evaluation of yourself - some sort of analysis.


PATIENT: Yeah. I don't know, just to see if there's a quick and easy answer. 


COUNSELOR: Yeah. We don't exactly operate that way. We don't see ourselves in a position to outline an analysis of, "this, is the problem and this, is the answer". We figure that it's done with the client and the therapist together exploring things. That's what changes come out of, more than detailing a problem and a solution.


PATIENT: Well, there are a couple of things I've thought about since last time. One was, after I left here I got to wondering if a great deal of my problem was in ideas that I have established or implanted, you might say, in my wife's thinking. And maybe these ideas haven't come around the way that I thought they should, and now I'm wondering how I should undo what I've done. Also, over the weekend I got to wondering, how do you tell if you're just a little bit nuts in the first place? I guess everybody has this idea once in a while. [6:03]


COUNSELOR: It's like you've been wondering if maybe you are a little bit nuts, and how do you tell?


PATIENT: Yeah.


COUNSELOR: I guess when you say, "a little bit nuts", you mean that something is wrong with you. You're a little bit crazy or something along those lines?


PATIENT: Something along those lines. Ideas just occur to me. You read in the newspaper the article about paranoia and things like that, and that seems to fit me a little bit, you know? I'm just wondering, maybe...


COUNSELOR: You read the newspaper and you start to say, "Hmm. That looks a little bit like me. You suppose I'm paranoid?"


PATIENT: Yeah. (chuckles) Well, according to that article everybody was, so I guess we don't have to worry about that too much. To a certain degree at least. 


(audio break 6:58 - 7:24)


PATIENT: I don't know if I mentioned it last time, but I actually have a slight fear of going out of town now on these business trips, unless I can take my wife with me and that's kind of hard to do at times...


(audio break 7:45-7:52)


PATIENT: ... especially if they last more than one day. The fact that she can only get one day off at a time, during the week at least, [they're all during the week.] (ph) 


COUNSELOR: So every time you have a business trip you think, "What's she going to be doing while I'm gone?"


PATIENT: Yeah. Especially since over the last two months we've decided to be completely frank with each other. She tells me everything and quite frankly, last Thursday when I went home, I'd got something started and thought well, maybe this, is progress. Then I get home and she said, "Well, I have a dinner engagement with this guy tonight. Do you mind?" And I said, "Yes I mind." Of course after about two hours, she talked me into it and I said, "Go ahead." I was supposed to go swimming and take a couple of kids with me. The kids didn't come around so I didn't go. So I sat at home and smoked a pack of cigarettes, worrying about the situation. It seems like we're still in the same boat. 


COUNSELOR: You're not at all happy that your wife dates (ph) other men.


PATIENT: Not at all.


COUNSELOR: ...especially while you're sitting at home alone smoking packs of cigarettes.


PATIENT: (inaudible at 9:12) ... in so many words. 


PATIENT: I don't know what to do about it. I could say that I'll say no, but if she really wants to go, she talks me in to it, it seems like.


COUNSELOR: Even when you start out intending to say no, that doesn't...


PATIENT: She can make me say yes to anything. There is a love there that she can work on. There's also a little bit of sympathy feeling from me on the part of her having to accept me as I am. There are a whole lot of factors in there in the long run, but..


COUNSELOR: Well, because you really care about her and also because you feel like she isn't getting all the sex she wants from you and I guess in a way you understand her and you're sympathetic towards her wanting to get it from other men.


PATIENT: The other thing that really gets to me on the idea is the fact that I'd probably be doing the same thing, except for the fact that the guy has to spot the bill for the entertainment. And of course our financial condition doesn't allow me to even stop and have a beer on the way home if I drank beer. I know good and well that I can't afford to do something like this. Whereas the girl, she goes and it doesn't cost her anything. She has a good time at no expense.


COUNSELOR: Two things about that. You don't feel very righteous or anything because you know that if you had the opportunity you'd also be going out. Secondly, there's something about how unfair that is.


PATIENT: Yeah it is. It seems completely unfair, I guess you'd say. I can see situations where maybe someday I might be able to afford it, shall we say, somehow. I guess I wonder if when the situation comes around when I can afford it and can arrange something, if she'll be completely acceptable to it as much as I am, I guess you'd say. [12:07]


COUNSELOR: Will she be so liberal when you actually have the opportunity?


(typewriter clicks in background)


(audio break 12:22 - 13:07)


PATIENT: I'm sitting here just thinking about things. Should I think out loud? (chuckles)


COUNSELOR: Sure. If you want to.


PATIENT: I was thinking about this situation this week where I could have (typewriter clicks in background) possibly arranged a trip to Missouri. In fact, last week, I said something about it. I was supposed to go, and then all of a sudden I couldn't. She was completely with the idea that she would go along with me. She'd take the day off from work or switch her days off with another girl. And then, this week I said something about being able to arrange it so that I can take the same day this week and go down there. So she said that she didn't much want to go this week. She didn't want to have to work this coming Sunday. Normally she doesn't have to work on Sundays, but this week she'd have to work Sunday and in fact, next week too. But if she went to Missouri with me this week on Thursday, that meant she'd have to work both Saturday and Sunday. She didn't want to do that. I don't completely accept this, because I can see the idea, but still I don't want to go out of town without taking her with me.


COUNSELOR: I see your point. But you still want her to come along?


PATIENT: Oh yeah. I happen to like the idea of her working from that standpoint. We have a four-bedroom home with two baths and everything. It's perpetually dirty. Toys are strewn all over the place, usually. The carpet doesn't get swept but once a week, if it gets that much. It just seems that the house is sort of dirty. I'd rather her stay home and keep a clean house, but we can't even make ends meet with her working. And I know good and well that we'd be worse off with her not working, so there I am.


COUNSELOR: You don't like the toys strewn around in the bedroom. What can you do?


PATIENT: "Pick them up," she says. 


COUNSELOR: I guess you don't like that.


PATIENT: I'm not overly ambitious, no. It's one of those situations where I feel, I could do more if she did more, but she does a lot and she feels that she's doing more than her share now, I think. So it sort of comes to what they call a Mexican standoff. [15:49]


COUNSELOR: I think I see what you mean. She feels like she's doing her share of it.


PATIENT: By working, coming home and fixing meals and doing maybe a little straightening up. Or washing clothes or ironing or something like that, which is absolutely necessary, where picking up the toys isn't. (typewriter clicking in background) 


COUNSELOR: Even though she feels that way, I guess you don't feel that she's doing her full share?


PATIENT: I don't know. I called the place where she works, sometimes every day if I get the chance. I try to pick a time where she's not really busy or anything. But still, I call. And the only reason I call is just to make sure she's there. Subconsciously, that's the only reason I call. I mean, I could say I just called to find out what time she'd be home, or something like that but... Just like the other night. I don't know what time I called. I'm pretty sure I called. She didn't say anything about wanting to go out to this dinner date until I got home. Then I got hit with it. So I'd call her and say, "What time are you going to be home?" "Oh, I'll be home at 5:30," or something like that. Well I get home at 5:30. She doesn't get home until 6:00 or 6:30. That bothers me because she works about (interviewer coughs) two miles from where we live. It seems likely that she should be there in the same amount of time that it takes me to get home, or less, even. [17:44]


COUNSELOR: You wonder what she's been doing in the meantime.


PATIENT: There have been a lot of times where she's just come home late. I'd say, "Where have you been?" And she'd say, "Well I went down to Wendy's..." to talk to the guys she used to work for. She was trying to get her job back in this place (typewriter clicks in the background). She'll go down there and try to see if there are any openings. They'll lead her on and say, "Yeah we've got one. We'll have an opening next week. We'll call you." So they don't call. She goes back and says, "I've got to check and go see about this." I'm sitting home waiting for her to come home to fix some supper or something like that. I tell her about how hungry I am when she gets home and she'll say, "Well why didn't you just get in there and fix yourself a sandwich or something until I got home?" I don't know. I prefer to have her fix it because that's her job as far as I'm concerned, even if it is just a peanut butter sandwich. The idea that she fixes it means that she's doing her part of the job.


COUNSELOR: When she doesn't do her job, you feel unfairly treated, like that's her half and she should live up to her half?


PATIENT: Yeah. And then there are times when the basement is flooded or something like that. She wonders why I don't get down there and fix it. It's things like... well, when she didn't get home on time. It's things like this that bother me. When there's something for me to do, I just don't do it. I put it off and put if off.


COUNSELOR: Because you're angry at her for not moving up to her share of it. I guess you're like, "Well if she's not going to, I don't see why I should."


PATIENT: As childish as that seems, that's about the size of it. [19:41]


COUNSELOR: Did you feel like I was calling you childish?


PATIENT: No. I said, from my point of view, it sounds as childish as two kids that are saying, well I'll give you my bubble gum if you'll give me some of your candy. It doesn't feel like the bargain was upheld.


COUNSELOR: There may be something childish about it, but there's something very important too. I keep putting it as being unfairly treated, but something along those lines. (inaudible at 20:40) if you're going to be taken advantage of.


PATIENT: Yeah. That's one way of putting it. I don't know. I can't understand. Well, she says that she's on her feet all day long and her feet hurt her. She likes to come home and rest a little bit before she gets supper. I come home and I'd like to have a meal on the table or as soon as possible after I walk in the door. Of course, this, is just going back to the way you were trained when you were a kid. You know, when your dad came home, dinner was usually ready. You get to the point where, well, when I get married, that's the way it's going to be. When you get married, you can't make things happen that way. It frustrates you. You wonder, "Am I the man of the house, or do I just live here?" 


COUNSELOR: You grew up knowing that your mother had the meals on the table for your father. (inaudible at 21:49) She's not treating you like the man of the house. Like some border or something. 


PATIENT: We've actually had squabbles about the fact that I didn't accept my responsibility like I should. This seems to be the root of it, you might say. I don't accept my responsibilities as the man of the house because I don't feel like I'm getting treated like one. (typewriter clicking in the background). I guess one of these days I'll have to bring her down here and give her equal time on this tape. Maybe she can enlighten you to some other things that I don't mention.


COUNSELOR: (inaudible at 22:40) ...like maybe you're giving one side of the story.


PATIENT: It's possible. Most people do. They tell their side and maybe not even half of the story. 


COUNSELOR: At any rate, your side of the story is that you don't get treated like the man of the house.


PATIENT: To some extent, yeah. I don't know. I feel like things are better now than they have been in the past. It may be relative. I don't' know. Maybe I just moved around to where I see the picture a little differently. It looks a little better, but it's not really any different. It's the same picture from a different side. I don't know. This probably goes back to years ago. Things I haven't brought up yet, like why we got married in the first place, which is a story in itself. In order to clarify things, I'll bring it all out. 


COUNSELOR: I guess it's another kind of... (inaudible at 24:19)


PATIENT: I was going to college at the University of Virginia. I don't like to study in the first place unless something is just overly interesting to me. In order to complete my education, I took the easy way out. At the University of Virginia, I was on and off of scholastic probation. I was barely making the mark. I'd get on it and study a little harder and make my grades, and then get off of it. I'd go back to the same routine and get back on it again. So I gave up the idea of finishing there and went to a small private school, which I knew would be easier. So I went to Hampton-Sydney in Farmville, Virginia. I think I flipped a coin to figure out where to go. I transferred all of my hours and went there. We had been dating in the summer. In September, I went in and got a room in the dorm and everything. I don't think we even corresponded. Then came Christmas. I had intended to go home for the Christmas holidays. I got home. I had been warned your might say, of the situation. Her girlfriend was going to school there. She and I were friends. She told me the situation before I went home. My wife was a senior in high school at the time. She'd been dating some guy and he'd gotten discharged from the service, I believe the story goes. He'd just packed up and left. She started dating another guy that she was really head over heels for, I guess you'd say. The next thing she knew, she was going to the doctor to find out if she was pregnant.


About the time I got home before the Christmas holiday, she'd went to the doctor and he confirmed that she was. So this presented a real problem in her life. I think from the standpoint of I was the only one handy and I was willing, I told her that I would marry her to give this child a name, so to speak. So I went back to school and a week later she came over to the school and we got a quick marriage ceremony. She went back to her folks' home, finished out the semester at school, and at the end of the semester for Easter, I came home. I can't remember. I don't think she finished the semester, come to think of it. But anyway, at Easter time I came home. About the middle of the year she came over to the school that I was attending and we set up housekeeping. So that's the background for a lot of my feelings, I think. I got the feeling that she owes me something. Of course, it's all self-centered. [27:57]


COUNSELOR: You're feeling self-centered?


PATIENT: I feel that this idea that she owes me something is just strictly mine. There's no foundation to it whatsoever. I can't completely get it out of my head because it's there. The fact that it happened this way, I guess that's why I feel like she owes me something.


COUNSELOR: Even though you don't like yourself feeling that way, that's the way you feel. 


PATIENT: And for the longest time, this first child and I... I had a feeling of... Well, you can't help but love a baby, you know. But when they get older and start having their own ideas on things, you kind of [feel like] (ph), "Well look kid, you owe everything to me." They don't know this. They can't figure out why you feel the way you do, I suppose. I harbor just a little bit of feelings, I guess, to this first child. But I think the last two or three years it's changed. Quite frankly, right now she's in Arizona, staying with her grandparents for the summer, which is just coincidental. It doesn't have anything to do with the problem. But I miss her. We called her yesterday. I listened on the other phone but I didn't say anything. But I realized that I miss her even though she isn't a part of me, I guess you'd say.


COUNSELOR: I think I get you. In the last few years you've become really fond of her and yet there's something about the old feeling that she isn't yours. She's not a part of you. There's a distance there. [30:31]


PATIENT: But her biggest problem is she's got two others to compete with. This fact gives her one strike against her or something. And that isn't fair to her really. The baby, the two-year-old is a blond-haired, blue-eyed little cutie that you just... She's daddy's girl. That's all there is to it. Of course the other one's having to compete with this. She doesn't' realize what the story is. I don't know. I find myself having to be awful careful just to be fair. 


COUNSELOR: You don't want to be unfair to her at all, and yet this little blue-eyed cutie like...


PATIENT: The boy, he's just the boy, that's all. He doesn't really compete with the other two, so to speak. 


COUNSELOR: I think it's not that much of a issue...


PATIENT: No, he's a chip off the old block. That's what his problem is.


COUNSELOR: Meaning if he were less like you, he'd be better off?


PATIENT: Well, yeah. I suppose. I can see myself all over him. It's part of the problem of having to raise him. I can see him having to go through all of the problems that I have. In fact, my wife came up to me the other day. She came to me like this, "Do you think he'll have the same problem you've got?" That kind of hit me right me between the eyes. What brought it on, was the fact that my folks were here the weekend before last. My dad was complaining about his back. Well, I have a back problem also. What she really meant was, "Do you think he'll have a back problem also?" But it hit me as, "Do you think he'll have all the problems that you have?" Of course, she didn't mean it that way, but it struck me that way. [33:10]


COUNSELOR: What you immediately reacted to is the sex stuff, not the back trouble. 


PATIENT: Mainly, because I keep that word in my mind too frequently.


COUNSELOR: Yeah, that's true. You're taking a lot of time, worrying a lot about you... I guess, about how you're doing sexually and how it's working out. 


PATIENT: ... what I can do to help myself.


COUNSELOR: Yeah.


PATIENT: I told my wife, though, in the last couple of months since we had started this swinging bit, I didn't seem to think of it quite as much as I did before. It seems funny in a way, because it seems like there's more excitement in the area now. Where I really should normally be thinking more of it, I don't. Maybe it's just sort of a peace of mind that I have that keeps me from thinking about it so much.


COUNSELOR: Like you worry about it so much.


PATIENT: It's more from the standpoint of whenever we have parties arranged. I guess you'd say that I think a little bit about it and then I pass it off. You don't really know what to expect, so you don't really know what to think or imagine, or whatever, so you just kind of pass it off. Then the next day, after it's all over with, you say, "Well, okay. That was it, and there's no..."


COUNSELOR: You don't really make such a big thing of it.


PATIENT: Yeah. I don't make such a big thing of it.


(audio break 35:11 - 35:42)


PATIENT: There was a time, about a year and a half ago, I guess it was, just trying to set a rough date... We had come to the agreement that we would accept things as they are and just let them go and not try to change things. But since that time, a lot of water has gone under the bridge of course. I'd say in the last 6 months or so, I've decided that there's got to be something done about this, even if it' from the standpoint of just leaving.


COUNSELOR: Leaving her?


PATIENT: Mm hmm. So that she can get out and find some guy that can be more of a husband, father, man - whatever else I'm failing at.


COUNSELOR: I guess if that's how you feel about it, that you are failing to be a man and a husband...


PATIENT: It also overlaps into my ability to do my job. (clears throat) I feel like, well, "I'm not any good there. Maybe I'm not any good at work. If I'm not any good at home, maybe I'm not any good at work." 


COUNSELOR: Maybe you're not any good, period. 


PATIENT: Right. We have an understanding, that if she ever decided that some other guy is available that she'd rather be with all the time, then I'll just sign on the dotted line and we'll go our separate ways. I wouldn't do it from the standpoint of benefiting myself, because I don't think I'd benefit. I've read too many articles about what the guy gets out of divorce, if you ever want to get into it, but I wouldn't fight it.


COUNSELOR: It's not at all what you want.


PATIENT: No. 


COUNSELOR: It looks like it makes you sad [to a certain point]. (ph)


PATIENT: I don't know. I guess a guy, when he gets ready to get married, has all these preconceived ideas of what marriage will be like. And then, when it doesn't pan out that way, he wonders why. Of course, he should realize that it's not what he's thinking from the very beginning. I've had enough experience with friends who got married before I did, to know that it was going to be, as the old saying goes, "a rough road to haul." I expected there to be fights. But I also had my hopes that there'd be other times when it would be different, too. One of the things that burns through my mind is, a girl that I dated one time, who... We never went to bed together, or anything like that. But whenever I'd come over to her house, she'd come to the door and meet me and give me a big kiss and everything. I really felt like she cared. After about a month or so of dating her, along comes a buddy of mine who dates her and she quit dating me. It hit me right between the eyes. All this time, I really thought she cared and then, "Pow," she dropped me like a hot potato. I thought, "Well, the girl that I marry is going to be the kind that runs to the door and greets me with a kiss everyday when I come home," you know? And she's really not that kind at all. [39:43]


PATIENT: She's the kind where you come home, you come in the door and sit down if she didn't happen to hear you, she wouldn't notice or seem to care if you were there. You could sit there for 30 minutes to an hour and, "Oh, you're home," you know? It seems like to me, whenever she's out, she just goes to the store, you know, which always takes longer than is feasible. I'm sitting there looking out of the window, and every time a car goes past, I jump up and look to see if that's her car. 


COUNSELOR: You're wanting her to come home. You're looking forward to seeing her. But you don't feel that from her.


PATIENT: I guess I'm going to have to give her equal time. That's all there is to it. You'd probably get an entirely different story. 


(audio break 40:45 - 41:41)


PATIENT: It seems like in the sex act, the female doesn't have to do anything. I know good and well that's not true, but still, it seems like when it comes to the male, he has to perform to both him and her. And after a failure of two or three, it gets so easy to say, "Well, it'll be another failure and she'll forget it." Yet, you still want to try, just to see if there is that chance to succeed.


COUNSELOR: Currently, you don't want to try because it'll just be a failure again and yet you keep hoping it will be different too. Maybe this time, it'll be different. 


PATIENT: Like I said, though, after so many failures, you get to the point where you have very little hope of it being any different from the last time.


COUNSELOR: There was something you said to about somehow it seems all the responsibility is on you. She doesn't have to do anything. She just has to lie there. It's you who has to perform.


(Audio break 43:00 - 43:16)


PATIENT: Not that she doesn't. It's...


COUNSELOR: Not that she doesn't?


PATIENT: Not that she doesn't...


COUNSELOR: You mean she does try to help? She does do things?


PATIENT: Yeah. She... I think it goes back to things like... It seems like, oh, up until about 5 years ago, every night I'd say, "Well, how about tonight?" And I'd get this, "I'm tired. I've got a headache." Of course, this, is something you read about. "I've got a headache, I'm tired..." At least one week of the month it's, "I can't." Things like this tend to... "Well, it's because the last time I failed. That's what it is. It isn't really because she's tired." Here lately, it's seemed like if "so and so" was to call, she wouldn't be tired. I have too much competition now. It seems like she accepts this from the standpoint of, "Well, they can only call at certain times." Whenever they call she wants to accept because they may not be able to call her again for another month, and this, is a once in a month occasion for her.


COUNSELOR: So she's saving herself for them.


PATIENT: To a certain extent, I guess that's one way of looking at it.


COUNSELOR: It's a pretty bitter thing. You wonder, "Maybe she doesn't want to be tired for them."


(audio break 45:38 - 46:01)


PATIENT: She admitted to me last night that the most enjoyable occasion she'd had in the last 6 months had been this one guy that she sees. Of course things like this don't help me feel any better. But I know it's quite possible, since I know how I do. I guess you might say that I'm as critical of myself as she is. I can see why she can feel that way or the reason she would feel that way.


COUNSELOR: It's almost like you feel that you don't quite have the right to resent it, because you know that you're not satisfying her as well as you could or should or something. 


PATIENT: ... as well as I should, but whether I could or not is a different story. Like I said, about two or three years ago, I had this theory that well, "Maybe it's just she and I. Maybe if I was with someone else, I could do better." And now that I've had an occasion to try it out and it's failed too, I say, what else is there left?


COUNSELOR: That must've really been very discouraging, because you always had in the back of your mind the hope that it wasn't only you.


(audio break 47:54 - 48:12)


PATIENT: Like I said, I went out of here last week with the greatest ambition to get home and have a shot right in the head. I guess I'm sitting here wondering, what's going to be the story tonight when I get home? Like I said, if I had the money, I probably wouldn't even go home until 9 or 10 tonight. I'd go up in some bar and sit and drink a while or something. That's how depressed...


COUNSELOR: Are you feeling depressed and discouraged right now?


PATIENT: It seems that way, doesn't it? I guess you might say that. Yeah.


PATIENT: This, is a one time thing. I get discouraged every once in a while. I wonder if it's all worth it.


COUNSELOR: (inaudible at 49:27)


PATIENT: You get to the point where you almost admire that people can have the intestinal fortitude to commit suicide and succeed. Or the person that got killed in the car wreck on the way home... You wonder if that wouldn't be the easy way out.


COUNSELOR: Living is so hard and so bad that but your (inaudible at 50:00) wouldn't be better off.


PATIENT: There's got to be a better way, huh?


COUNSELOR: Yeah.


PATIENT: ... as Ford says.


(Audio break at 50:13 - 50:54)


PATIENT: Maybe I just worked hard today. That's all.


(Audio break at 51:00 - 51:38)


PATIENT: That's a waste of a perfectly good tape. 


COUNSELOR: Do you mean by being quiet now, or do you mean...


PATIENT: Yeah. I mean by me just sitting here thinking. (inaudible at 51:58) ... take pictures of what goes through my mind.


PATIENT: I'm thinking that maybe with the idea of getting another job, that I'll be able to get out of the situation I'm in, where I have it and can't seem to prove myself to higher ups, it seems. I'll get into another situation where I'll have a fresh start and maybe the next time I'll be able to succeed to a certain extent. Maybe this will straighten up the things at home, too. At least there's that idea. 


COUNSELOR: The way your job is going, you don't feel like you're succeeding and doing well. That kind of casts a (inaudible at 53:14) over everything. 


PATIENT: ... to the point where when you're out looking, you're almost willing to take anything that comes along... to the point where you feel as if nothing can be worse than what you have now.


COUNSELOR: All you want to do is just get out.


PATIENT: I've made that statement several times. I'm looking forward to the day that I can walk in and tell them where they can take that job, and walk right out the door. 


COUNSELOR: I think you're still feeling a bit down... (inaudible at 54:33)


PATIENT: I don't know. Maybe just sitting here thinking about things really makes you realize how depressed you should be, if that's a way of looking at it.


COUNSELOR: I think I see what you mean. When you start laying everything out...


PATIENT: You lay everything out and you say, "Well I didn't realize it was that bad."


(Audio break 55:00 - 55:15)


COUNSELOR: From where you sit right now, it looks very bad. It looks not like there's going to be a way out, but like it's bad and that's the way it's going to stay. Doesn't feel very hopeful.


(Audio break 55:43 - 56:07)


COUNSELOR: (inaudible at 56:07)


PATIENT: Would there be a chance that they could put it on Friday? I may have to go out of town this week, and I may have to stay out of town for a couple days. It might be Tuesday and Wednesday or Wednesday and Thursday. So could we make it for Friday?


COUNSELOR: (inaudible at 56:26)


PATIENT: Alright. 


(door opens)


COUNSELOR: Bye, now.


[57:06]


END TRANSCRIPT
