Transcript of Audio File:
______________________________________________________________________________
BEGIN TRANSCRIPT:
THERAPIST: Hi. Come on in.
CLIENT: How is it going?
THERAPIST: Thank you.
CLIENT: Good. I can't believe we didn't get here on time. We moved and we're staying at Emma and James's in (sp of neighborhoods at [00:00:20] — 00:00:45) Square and I left with 40 minutes to get here and I was like huh. I was still in the Square 20 minutes ago and I thought for sure, "There is no way." I was really proud of myself.
THERAPIST: Is that near [inaudible]. (sp?)
CLIENT: Yeah. The Square is a little further up the other Square is further down.
THERAPIST: It's probably like two miles? Three Miles?
CLIENT: Yeah. Well I took the train. I walk to work because it's a little bit further this way, but it took a 40-minute walk. It would have taken me five more minutes to walk here probably. (chuckles) So I walked into town, took the train. Anyway, so we did our move and it was exhausting. I'm on a new level . . . I've never been this tired I don't think. I didn't think it was going to be that exhausting for some reason. Every other move has been like pack up three boxes, stuff them as full as you can, ship them and then stop, but this is like we have our boxes on Thursday and we start packing and packed all day until Saturday night and loaded up the U-Haul and drove up to New Hampshire, drove it back. I'm just so tired. [00:01:46] Before going into it, on Thursday I was really upset. Chris had gone to pick up the boxes on Thursday and it just made me really upset and nervous and tense. I was talking to him about it and I was saying, "There are a few things, but part of it is I don't want to fight with you." That's what I was saying to Chris. "It's going to be a stressful situation. We're going to be totally maxed out and I just don't want us to be at each other's throats. That's a really big fear of mine." And he was like, "Alright, we'll just be conscious of it," and we didn't get in a fight the entire time, which was great. I feel like that was, in part, just stating beforehand that we won't bite each other's heads off during this. There were a couple of times where one of us would be like — okay — and get a little irritated, like one time we were taking the bed apart and he was just in kind of a mood. I said, "I'm going to get a drink of water," and removed myself from the situation for a minute and come back. I feel this was like a huge test. I was using it as an opportunity to kind of practice a lot of things. When we were taking apart the bed I had been up two hours beforehand already doing stuff. Anyway, I was trying to just be more understanding and didn't realize his bad mood isn't because of me. His bad mood is just because of him. So when I went to get myself the drink of water and kind of remove myself from the situation, I was trying to remind myself of that — that his bad mood can just be because of him. I don't have to take it personally. That's a big problem that we fall into. We take things really personally when sometimes it's just the other person's thing and what's going on with them. I was trying to remind myself of that and it was really helpful and really kind of worked for me. [00:04:04] So I don't know why I was talking about that. Everything was great with us, but the whole thing just makes me so tense and so nervous and so anxious. My brother, John, is not staying at my parents' anymore. He has an apartment lined up for the summer, so he won't be there. I'm okay with that. My cousin has an extra garage that she let us store our things in. We dropped our things off in her garage and for some reason it made me so anxious, like I'm leaving all of my things. All of my things are everywhere. There are things there. There are things at my parents' house. There are things here at Emma and James's house. I have stuff everywhere. It makes me so anxious. I was feeling so tense and just on the verge of a panic attack for the last four days and I have a problem when I start feeling like that. I get into this cycle of, "This is how it's going to be. I'm going to be this tense for the whole time that we're doing this. I'm going to be this tense until we move. I'm going to be in this place again. It's going to be terrible," and I have a problem with that. I'm trying to remind myself that this has just been a stressful few days. I'm trying to talk myself down because this doesn't necessarily mean that I'm super anxious again, it has just been a stressful few days — not even a few days — because before that it was like this has been a stressful few weeks. (chuckles) But I'm trying to work myself back down into some realm of normalcy. It's not been easy. 00:06:07
THERAPIST: What comes to mind about what you're anxious about?
CLIENT: I mean just not having like a home base that is ours. That makes me tense — really nervous. I just don't like not knowing how things are going to be. Like staying with Emma and James — are we going to kind of like do our own thing and then we'll all just kind of be around? Or is it going to be like we're all hanging out all the time? Is it going to be like that? When we're at my parents', is it going to be the thing like where my stepdad just drives us crazy. (chuckles) [00:06:54] We were up there on Sunday and he just doesn't stop talking. He doesn't get the hint. He kept saying he was going to go to bed for 45 minutes. We'd been moving all day. We were so tired and he just wouldn't stop. I got up and left the room, but all I wanted to do was have 10 minutes of peace with Chris by myself before we went to bed. At 10:15 my mom goes up to sleep and he says, "I'll be up in a couple of minutes," and then he continued to talk until 11:30. I was like, "You have to go." (chuckles) That makes me anxious like, "Is that just going to grind on me?" We need to have our own space. We need to really come to that. Yeah, those are the things that I feel like I'm not going to feel 100 percent comfortable until we're in our apartment. Caleb is like — Caleb is my stepdad — we were having dinner. They made us this big dinner Sunday when we came in, which was really nice. We were talking about this P90X thing, this exercise regimen, and so I was like, "This sounds like a cult. You guys all sound like you're in some sort of cult." (chuckles) He was saying, "We get up at 5:00 AM to do it." The way their house is set up, if this were mine and Chris's room, then all their exercise equipment would be in your waiting room. It's not a real room. The walls that are put up are just plywood. Caleb makes it very clear that he has no respect for people's — like the older room that my brothers used to stay in, when you turned on the basement light all the lights in the basement would go on because it was not really supposed to be a room. He'd work out down there and the washing machine was going, and he would flip on all the lights at 5:00 AM every morning and never set it up differently — like maybe they just got a lamp. He's just a guy who doesn't . . . "This is my castle," so he said something about, "Better get used to the P90X waking up early, because we do it at 5:00 AM right outside your door every morning." [00:09:50] It was the way he said it. I don't expect him to apologize or make changes. It was the way he . . . "that's how it is." I was like, "I guess I don't have any room to complain because you're letting me stay in your house for free for three months." But that sounds fun, like, "Yep. Better get used to it." I just don't know what to do with that. You're kind of a jerk. (chuckles) That's just a jerky thing to say. I obviously don't have a choice. That's what you do. That's your routine. This is your home, but it was just weird what he was saying. Chris's parents, when the idea of us moving back to California was being talked about, they were hiring cleaners. They had a whole attic space that has two bedrooms and a bathroom. It was almost a little apartment. They were hiring cleaners that were going to come and they wanted us to live there permanently, (chuckles) which we never would have done. She was so eager for us to come and stay and be part of their home. That's how I feel a lot of parents are with their kids, especially their grown kids. They feel like this would maybe the last opportunity to come stay with you. With my parents, it's very clear that we're imposing. We are guests. It just makes me feel weird, I guess, so I don't know what I'm doing to myself. (chuckles) I'm doing it to save tons of money. I still have this fantasy idea that my family is peachy keen and it's going to be nice and fun to live with my mom for the summer. It will be nice to live with my mom for the summer but . . . I don't know. 00:11:59
THERAPIST: Where do you think that fantasy comes from?
CLIENT: Whatever wants . . . you want this nice family. I was always really jealous. My friends would go home for the summer from college and they'd go stay at their parents' house and just hang out, not work, and putz around with their parents every summer. That always made me really jealous because I never had that. I lived in an apartment or I lived across the country and I would come home for a week to visit and then go back to work. I think part of me was really jealous of that and I keep trying to recreate that for myself. I don't know. (pause) I don't think it will be that bad. Down in our room I made it so that we have our own space. We have our own TV, our own couch, our own space to be. I plan on just keeping our routine how we have it. Making dinners together, eating together, and then just doing our own thing; and I think that will be okay. It just makes me tense. (pause) [00:13:35] My little brother was really having great behavior. He normally gets really overwhelmed and — the little one — he kind of has tantrums and melts down on the wall when everyone is together because he's just overstimulated and he's not really getting a lot of attention. He's getting attention in a way where it's just not attention. He usually can't handle it, but he was so good and he wasn't having a meltdown. At one point he turned the TV on super loud and I was like, "Is he okay? Is he frustrated that he's not getting any attention?" because the TV was really loud. I said that to my parents and they were like, "No, he's fine. He's just watching TV." Well, he cranked it up abnormally loud. It was super loud. I was like, "It seems like he needs some attention," and they kind of made a face at me. I went in and I was like, "Hey, buddy, do you want to come to the table and play Tic-Tac-Toe with me while we finish dinner?" because he ate four bites of steak and then left the table and didn't eat dinner. Nobody said anything or did anything about it. [00:14:51] I just don't think that's normal. I asked him to come back and play Tic-Tac-Toe with me and he was totally responsive and listened. We played Tic-Tac-Toe. He lost a bunch of games, which normally would throw him into a tizzy, and he was totally okay with it. He made a little growly face and went on with the game. I put him to bed because Caleb would never. He's too busy kissing Chris and John's ass. I put him to bed and he was so good. It really calmed me down. I was really nervous about this summer because he is a kid who has meltdowns. He has tantrums. He loses his cool and I don't blame him. He's frustrated, but it was really good for me to see him be really responsive. I was happy to have that night with him. 00:15:58
THERAPIST: I imagine you can relate to him because you've described you and John sometimes . . .
CLIENT: Oh, absolutely. Absolutely. I relate to him in the sense where it's like he doesn't get attention unless he demands it. I remember being that kid where it's like, "No, no." My mom is a really involved parent with him now, much more so than she was with us. I can see her sitting down and playing games with him, and I don't think that every happened when I was a kid. But in the moments where it's like everybody together, for the most part they go on with their lives and do what they want, and then he does his own thing and every once in a while they're like, "Hey, buddy, did you want to eat something?" at 10:30 in the morning. He probably should have had breakfast at seven when he woke up. Like I know your priority was to go do your P90X or whatever, but he should have been the first thought. It just frustrates me. I remember it. I remember feeling like I'm such an afterthought. He's not an afterthought, but there are just things I don't understand. Anyway, it was a big relief to me to see him grown up a little bit. He's able to compose a little bit more and handle some situations a little bit differently and really listen to the word "no," which he never had listened to before. I was really impressed. I was pretty nervous. [00:17:46] I still have this overwhelming fear that something bad is going to happen this summer. I think because he's a kid that we've had something really bad happen before with him, and he is a kid that just — not only the cancer. He choked on a piece of pineapple before and I had to give him the Heimlich. He'll run away and you can't find him. He's a kid that things happen that are terrifying, and I'm just really afraid of something. There are locks on the doors that you have to enter a code to get out because he will just take off. I have this overwhelming fear that he'll learn the code. I'm just really fearful that something will happen surrounding him when I'm responsible for him and it's scaring the life out of me, more than with any other kid because he's so unpredictable. I don't know. I think it will be alright. 00:19:12
THERAPIST: Really?
CLIENT: Yeah. (chuckles) Wait — do you mean about watching Mark or staying with them?
THERAPIST: Well, you just said, "Everything will be okay."
CLIENT: I think everything with Mark will be okay. I think it will actually be really good.
THERAPIST: I guess I commented because you will often talk about the things that bother you, but sometimes in an offhanded casual way, and then just sort of reassure yourself.
CLIENT: Because I can't feel like, "This is all going to be awful," because this is really stressing me. And it's not necessarily all going to be awful. It's going to be as awful as I make it out to be. I feel maybe I can go and do it with a positive attitude. 00:20:08
THERAPIST: You work so hard to do that. Like "If I just have a positive attitude, everything will be okay."
CLIENT: It worked this weekend. I told Chris what I was worried about and went into it with a positive attitude, and it worked out. Things were great. Sometimes it works. (chuckles)
THERAPIST: Yeah, I guess telling Chris what you were worried about was part of it. I mean you were moving away from your fears. I that way you were expressing them.
CLIENT: Yeah. This is a side note, but I just thought of it. Chris's parents were in town for his graduation. They ended up coming, which I was really happy about. They were in the living room with my parents talking and I just wanted — like Chris and I have been talking a lot about family and kids and everything — I wanted to tell them what . . . Chris, in high school, got into a lot of trouble. He almost didn't graduate high school. He was just like a bad kid. Those are the memories that get talked about with him all the time. That's what gets focused on and it really bothers him and it really bothers me. What Chris thinks about it with his childhood is like his dad coming home and every day throwing the ball with Chris when he got home, or playing basketball with him. Chris's dad was really focused on one-on-one time with him and making it a priority in a way that was something Chris was interested in, like sports. I just wanted to tell his parents that he has really fond memories of his childhood and he thinks they did a great job and that I think they did a great job. I just wanted to tell them that because he would never tell them that. [00:22:27] Those are the kinds of things I wanted to talk about, so I made a point of saying it like, "Curt," — that's Chris's dad — "Chris remembers you coming home every day and throwing a ball with him. I think you should know how much that meant to him. He's always said that's something he's going to do with his kids because it meant so much to him. He still has a huge level of sports to this day because of that." It made his parents really emotional and they were really grateful and thanking me for saying that. I was talking to my mom on the phone about it a couple of days later. She was saying, "That was such a sweet thing for you to do and so nice for you to tell Chris's parents." I was like, "Well, I just felt like they should hear it and let them know they did a good job." She was like, "Yeah, all parents really want to hear from their adult children that they did a good job or the best they could." It felt like she was fishing a little bit. I just didn't really say anything because I don't think that she did a bad job, but I'm not going to say the things that I said to them to her. I wish that they hadn't been in the room when I said that to Chris's parents, but I didn't see an opportunity that weekend to do it. It was just us in my living room and they happened to be talking to Chris's parents, and so I was like, "I just don't think I'm going to be alone with Chris's parents realistically for the rest of this weekend." Anyway — I don't know where I'm going with this — it felt really awkward because the conversation I want to have with my mom is very different than that conversation, And not even that was the conversation that I had with her, his parents; but it's very much like — it's not the opposite, but it's very different. I'm almost mad that that happened because I feel like now in her mind she's going to think like, "You're only comparing me to Chris's parents," or "You think Chris's parents did a great job and that I didn't do a good job." I'm just a little disappointed that that played out that way. (pause) That's part of it, too. I know I want to have this discussion with her but I don't know when to do it. I want to do it first thing when I get there but I don't want it to linger and we're sitting there thinking about it for weeks or days even. (pause) 00:26:00
THERAPIST: You don't feel like you're trying to communicate something to your parents, too?
CLIENT: I don't know. I'm now wondering if that was part of it. Did I do that because maybe . . ? (pause) I think maybe I was, but . . . At the same time, Caleb is so clueless he would never pick up on that. We were talking about some lawyer that he knew who took some case, because he was telling Chris about how lawyers really scam people. First of all, you own an insurance agency, my friend, so let's relax on whose profession is scamming people the most here because they're not far off. He was talking and going on saying that there was this guy who hired some lawyer who took his case on and didn't know anything about it until he messed it up. Blah, blah, blah. And I'm looking at Chris like I can't believe he's talking about this because his friend, who he hired to take over my case from when I was suing my dad, had no business. I didn't know this at the time. I was a kid. What did I know? He had no business taking on my lawsuit against my dad. He had no experience. He does DUIs, like traffic violations. He doesn't have any knowledge of the area, and totally screwed me. Chris went over a bunch of the papers from when it was going on because I saved them all. I didn't know what I was going to do with them, but I just didn't think I should throw them away. Chris was pointing out all the ways the guy totally mishandled the situation. And they know he mishandled it because nothing ended up happening and we ended up dropping it. Caleb is going on and on and on about this like, "Yeah, can you believe some idiot lawyer would take on a case where he had no experience and lead these guys along?" Chris was saying, "Well, some lawyers do that. It's a little bit opportunistic because they think, "Maybe if I can teach myself this and then, in the future, I can take on more cases like this." I'm just looking at Chris thinking, "I can't believe he's this clueless that he would bring this up right now." [00:28:54] My mom saw me looking at Chris making a face. And she was like, "Well, kind of like he did to us." She catches on when I'm uncomfortable or when things are going on that are bothering me, but Caleb was like, "Yeah, yeah, yeah. The kids got what they wanted." I'm like, "Well, first of all it wasn't the kids, it was just me. Second of all, I didn't get what I wanted." I was just so frustrated by it and just so frustrated when it comes up because it just makes me so mad.
THERAPIST: Because?
CLIENT: Because I was just used in this little pawn in his scheme of knowing that me and my brothers had this money and if he could just get access to it . . . It was like I was technically the one suing my dad, but I didn't have any say in anything and nobody told me what was going on, which is totally illegal. They were only talking to Caleb who had no rights at all. He was paying the lawyer fee, sure, and it was his friend who was the lawyer. But now as an adult, thinking back on it, I was just used as this little piece in this game and screwed any relationship that I could establish with that side of the family. Screw the fact that I was just totally damaged from everything that had just happened. It didn't matter. All he thought of was that I was a kid now that he had to pay for. He knew that my brothers and I all had this money and that if he could just get a hold of it and they have access to it, then he wouldn't have to pay for us. 00:30:45
THERAPIST: Was it his idea to sue?
CLIENT: Yeah. Well, he and my mom, but they were the ones that came to me with the idea. I certainly didn't have the idea. I didn't know that I could even do that. I still to this day don't even really fully understand what even happened. (pause) [00:31:50] My stepsister was in town last week for five days and was staying at her mom's, which is ten minutes away from my parents' house. Caleb is her dad. She didn't go see them at all one time the whole time she was there. Part of me is like, "You wouldn't go see our brother? He's eight years old." (chuckles) Why wouldn't you just go see him for ten minutes or something? Part of me is really mad at her for doing that. Part of me is like, "I get it. Your dad drives me nuts. I don't think I'd want to see him either." But then I think like . . . I don't know. She paints this picture that her relationship with her dad is so terrible and that always really irks me because she won't come for the five days that she'll be home and won't go see her brother. For some reason that really bothers me that she's not part of the family.
THERAPIST: Maybe she doesn't want to be a part of this.
CLIENT: I know. And that hurts my feelings. 00:33:03
THERAPIST: Why?
CLIENT: I don't know. Because I want her to be.
THERAPIST: Maybe she doesn't want to be treated badly. Do you think that you feel an abuse that she can separate herself from the situation?
CLIENT: A little bit. I think it's mostly just that my feelings are totally hurt. It's part of the "I want this family and she's not playing along."
THERAPIST: No one is playing along.
CLIENT: I know. (chuckles) It's really frustrating for me. I don't know.
THERAPIST: But some people do give up on the fantasy and just try not to be abused or mistreated. 00:34:24
CLIENT: Yeah. Well, then I get mad at him and so I'm like, "The reason she's not coming around to be a part of our family, see any of us or spend time with any of us is because you're a shitty dad. You're a grown man. Why didn't you call your daughter when you knew she was in town? You can't call her and ask her to come over for dinner?" But it's like, "Well, she's the one in town. She can call me," and then I'm mad at him like, "You're such a friggin' jerk. You can't pick up the phone and call her? You can't say — nothing?" and then I'm really mad at him. Actually it's not her fault. She's an adult. It's not her fault. I don't know what I'm even trying to say. 00:35:32
THERAPIST: Do you feel like it's hard to understand why she wouldn't want to be involved in this?
CLIENT: No. It's not hard. It's very easy to understand. I take it personally.
THERAPIST: Would you like for her to visit you separately?
CLIENT: Yes. Last summer she brought her boyfriend to visit and that just didn't go well.
THERAPIST: Why?
CLIENT: Well, she brought her boyfriend here and they were visiting and he had never been here before, so I thought it was like a trip they were taking together to visit. She thought of it like a trip here to visit me and he was just tagging along, because she had made plans for the trip and he decided last minute to come, too. I had another girlfriend in town who was staying with Emma. One of the nights I was like, "Well, what are you guys going to do?" We all went to dinner together and then I was like, "Well, if you guys want the apartment to yourselves for the night, I can go to their apartment." I ended up doing that, thinking it was a nice thing because I thought maybe they'd want time to themselves. When Chris and I travel I like to have downtime alone — just the two of us. She got really upset about that and felt I was prioritizing my friends over her. That's a common thing for the both of us. She and I both feel our friends are a priority over each other. That's a common thing. At Christmas she blew me off for her friends and I was very upset, so we feel like we're being blown off for friends a lot. When they came to visit she and I got in an argument. We had the one argument and then it was fine. That's what I remember. Normally when she just comes down by herself it's great. 00:38:10
THERAPIST: Why was the boyfriend a problem?
CLIENT: The other part is that I was kind of weirded out. He's 25. She's 20. That made me a little uncomfortable. I was a little skeptical of him going into it. His personality just started to rub me the wrong way. He got really drunk one night and he was being kind of a jerk. We went to my friend's apartment and he was smashing beer cans and throwing them on the roof. He was starting to bother me. I think I was trying to take some space from him a little bit because I'm not his biggest fan. He's a nice enough guy. After four days with him, I wanted a little break. I don't know. [00:39:10] (pause) Yeah, I guess part of me is jealous. Like at her mom's house she has her mom, her stepdad, and three brothers and sisters. They're just a regular family. That's her primary home. Part of me is jealous that you get that and she gets to go to places for her home that she grew up in. She gets so excited to go there. And part of me is definitely jealous. And that what I have is my home that she doesn't even come to. She's like, "Do I want to think of that as my home? I don't even want to come visit there for a half-hour when I'm in town for five days." Then part of me is just . . . (chuckles) Lame.
THERAPIST: What part of it is lame? 00:40:54
CLIENT: (chuckles) My sad little attempt at making my family a family.
THERAPIST: [ ] (inaudible at 00:41:09) stepfather.
CLIENT: Yes. He adores her. He thinks the sun shines on her ass. He thinks that she's the bee's knees and she can't do anything wrong. That's the part that I don't get. You have a dad that totally adores her. He's a jerk. I don't think he's the best guy. He won't call her because he's a total asshole in that way, but he would never say anything wrong. He won't call her because he's too immature because he thinks she should call him. I guess that totally doesn't make any sense, but it wasn't even allowed to be talked about in front of him. I had to secretly ask my mom, (whispered voices) "Did she come?" And she was like, "No. [ ] (inaudible at 00:42:19) " It's like a big secret thing. I guess the two don't really match because he's not showing her that obviously.
THERAPIST: So by her not coming it sort of sheds light on the problems in your family. She's not going along to get along.
CLIENT: And her mom throws a shit-stinking fit if she never comes over. It makes her mom really mad. I think she's going along to get along with that on that side of the family. There are just huge blow-outs and battles that happen every holiday. For the last eleven years, where it's just like screaming. Her mom doesn't want her to go and it's always screaming and tears and crying. It's this whole thing, so I know that was part of it, too. To appease her mom, she doesn't come. And her mom pays for her plane to come. (pause) 00:44:04
THERAPIST: It seems like you have this idea of people sort of owning other people. Like if she pays for the plane ticket home, she gets to call the shots.
CLIENT: That's what she says. That's what Edward said before this was stated. And that's what our parents say. That's like us saying what's been stated. Like, "Well, I paid for the plane ticket home then she's staying with me for that vacation." In fact, that's something that's been stated.
THERAPIST: But people don't have to go along with it. You feel like this sort of real helpless dependency, like you have no choice but to go along with this. You feel completely helpless and resentful, too, but that you have no choice. It's sort of like you have this dependency. You need them.
CLIENT: Yes. I feel like I need a family.
THERAPIST: And you feel your need is so great, you feel like you have to put up with being treated badly. I think you feel like there's something pathetic about you for going along with it.
CLIENT: Yes. Or that I could just will them to change it all. 00:45:28
THERAPIST: Your stepfather, at the very least, sounds very disrespectful.
CLIENT: Oh, hugely unaware of other people's needs and wants and completely lacking in awareness and respect that other people have desires outside of his bubble. (chuckles) I guess I have a hard time with that, too.
THERAPIST: Well it's almost — some people are completely clueless — but he has this sort of a "stick it to you" attitude like, "You're going to be in my house. You're going to do whatever the hell I want."
CLIENT: Absolutely. And you're going to have to listen to my stories about how much people make. He'll just do whatever he wants and don't do anything wrong. Like he flipped out on me. Everyone was sitting around on the couch and people were walking at both ends so I stepped on the coffee table and over. Granted it wasn't the best idea, but I put my foot on the coffee table and hopped over to get onto the couch and he was like, "Whoa!" It was both my brothers' reactions like, "You can't do that. You're going to hurt yourself," was my brother's reaction. Caleb was like, "Jenny. Are you kidding me? That is a really expensive table," was the first thing he said to me. I was like, "I'm sorry. It's a coffee table. I'm sorry. I didn't think it would be that big of a deal." He was like, "It's a really expensive table. You could have broken it," and just wouldn't let it go. It was like, "Okay. But I didn't break it. I'm sorry. I won't do it again." I'm like, "Who cares? It's a coffee table." 00:47:25
THERAPIST: You know that he feels that way about his belongings.
CLIENT: Yeah. I just didn't think of it. I just didn't think it would be . . . like I said I was sorry.
THERAPIST: Yeah. I guess I'm commenting that you were surprised when you said [the asshole was shouting] (inaudible at 00:47:40), because you know he's an asshole.
CLIENT: Yeah. I was. I was shocked.
THERAPIST: Yeah. That's what one of your problems is — that you get shocked. Like you know this and yet you don't know at the same time.
CLIENT: Yeah. What is that?
THERAPIST: That was very consistent with his personality. It's not like he's this great guy and why would he get on you for this?
CLIENT: Yeah. I guess it just makes me mad. I would never yell at somebody for that and so, yeah, I guess I get so confused. Like why would you yell at someone for that? I don't know.
THERAPIST: We're going to need to stop for today, okay? So I will see you in a month?
CLIENT: Yes.
THERAPIST: Okay. Take care.
CLIENT: Thanks so much.
THERAPIST: Okay. Bye bye.
END TRANSCRIPT
