Transcript of Audio File:
______________________________________________________________________________
BEGIN TRANSCRIPT:
CLIENT: So I'm not sure exactly what happened especially because when I saw the doctor on Saturday she was useless, other than giving me a prescription for Vicodin. I'm seeing a specialist next Monday, but from what I know it is a flare-up of the injury that I got when I was on my archeological dig five years ago.
THERAPIST: What happened then?
CLIENT: Then I was doing a lot of repetitive motions and I was pinching the nerve that runs here (indicates area) and the wrist brace is to prevent me from pinching that nerve. Pinching the nerve caused my hand get all numb. Originally if I was doing something like knitting too much or whatever, if I stopped, either right away or a couple of minutes after I stopped the numbness would go away; but then when I was on that dig, it was a Friday and I finished and it was still hurting. Over that entire weekend it still was feeling numb, so I was like, "Okay, this is something serious," and I ended up having to go to the hospital. The doctor in Israel thought it was tendonitis, and then when I got back my specialist, Dr. Hughes, thought it was carpal tunnel. He gave me the wrist brace and said I should wear it at night. I did that at first and then eventually it started feeling and I stopped wearing it. This past Thursday, I guess it was, it started hurting badly. 00:01:47
THERAPIST: Well you had mentioned last week that it was hurting while you were at your hour.
CLIENT: Yeah, so Thursday, I guess, was when it was hurting nonstop. It was hurting while I was at work but if I stopped doing things it usually was fine. It was really bad. I then was trying to get an appointment and it turns out that Dr, Hughes is retired.
THERAPIST: And that is the person you had seen before?
CLIENT: He is the person I had seen before. He is the person who had done the surgeries on my hands when I was three and four years old and who I had been seeing ever since. He, I guess, retired sometime between 2007 and now, but General still has my records and I was able to get a specialist appointment with someone else in the hand surgery unit, whatever it's called. 00:02:40
THERAPIST: That's good; so there will be some continuity. You don't know them but they have all your information.
CLIENT: Records. Yeah.
THERAPIST: It's hard when someone you've seen for so long and has been through that process with you isn't available anymore.
CLIENT: Yeah, and like maybe surgeries like this on my hand are routine now, but when it happened to me it was very, very new and experimental. So then the doctor I saw on Saturday gave me prescriptions to deal with the pain. Originally I was taking four Advil at a time and it wasn't really doing anything; and she said that with Advil, the anti-inflammatory stuff takes up to three to four days to actually start working and build up, though the pain-killing stuff happens right away. Therefore, since it wasn't really doing anything to kill the pain anyway, I should only be taking two at a time, not four. I can take them only three times a day with food, which made sense. She wasn't telling me whether or not I should not use my hand at all ever, but she did give me the Vicodin. 00:03:54
THERAPIST: Are you using that? Is it helping?
CLIENT: Yeah, a little. It makes me tired. I didn't take it this morning. I'm allowed to take it up to three times a day and I've been taking it about twice a day. I just didn't want to have to get here on Vicodin and stuff.
THERAPIST: Yeah. It can make you really drowsy.
CLIENT: I'm just so terrified, though, of the Vicodin.
THERAPIST: What's your level of pain at the moment?
CLIENT: At the moment? Right now it's actually not hurting. Earlier today it was. The problem is that I need to take off my wrist brace in order to do certain things, like showering or going to the bathroom, or something. Those are sort of non-negotiable . . .
THERAPIST: Are you a "righty"?
CLIENT: I am, yeah.
THERAPIST: Of course.
CLIENT: Considering that my left hand doesn't even have the radial bone and all that, I am so extremely right-handed. A normal person with normal hands, at least, might not be left-handed, but they could at least do things with their left hand.
THERAPIST: You have a bigger difference between your right and your left.
CLIENT: Yeah, like I can't reach, so it's made things really hard. I showered this morning and I was brushing my hair and it was hurting a ton, and so I had to stop. I still had my wrist brace off and I needed it off to get dressed. I'm not sure if I'm really not supposed to be doing any of that, but I sort of have to.
THERAPIST: It's hard not to do basic things.
CLIENT: Yeah. I'm just so afraid . . . I'm sort of living off of Frap Snap you can sip them through a straw. When I eat and other things, it's either take the wrist brace off or eat with my left hand really, really slowly or something because I don't want to get food all over the wrist brace.
It might be unwise, but I don't know how unwise it is because the doctor was the most awkward doctor ever] and I was thinking maybe she was being awkward because I was phrasing things wrongly or something and then afterwards — because Sydney had come with me — he was like, "Wow, that was the most awkward doctor ever." I was like, "Okay, so it isn't me." 00:06:22
THERAPIST: What do you call "awkward"?
CLIENT: Just her mannerism and stuff. It was just weird. I was like, "Maybe I'm not giving her the right answers or something. Maybe I'm not phrasing it right exactly."
THERAPIST: It's really frustrating not to be able to do the things that you normally do. I would imagine it feels kind of scary, too, because you are still reliant on that hand, more so than other people. Most people have a hard time switching, but I think you're more reliant upon that hand.
CLIENT: I'm just afraid I'm going to be an invalid or something. There are points through the past few days that it was hurting a lot - a lot, a lot, a lot. I take the Vicodin; it didn't set in or something. I moved my hand the wrong way or something. I have been trying to sleep with the brace sometimes but I usually ended up waking up sometime in the middle of the night taking it off. 00:07:32
THERAPIST: Just since it started hurting or is that something that you've been doing ever since that first injury?
CLIENT: Neither. It started maybe a couple of months ago on and off sort of thing; and, "Oh, yeah, I should wear this wrist brace," because it was hurting a little bit when I woke up or something so I was like, "Yeah, I guess I'm sleeping on it funny."
THERAPIST: So that was something that had been building before you hurt it at work or you or you noticed it hurting at work, because it doesn't sound like there was an event where you hurt it. You just noticed that it started to hurt?
CLIENT: Yeah, there wasn't a particular event. I mean there also had been times when I was spinning yarn and I was like, "Oh, this is hurting. Oh, I want to keep on finishing it. Okay, I'll stop when I finish." And then I finish and then a few minutes later it stops hurting, but I was working through the hurt, which might not have been the best idea in the world, especially with that. It's not like there was a project that I needed to finish for someone who was paying me money. That was just me being stupid, I guess. 00:08:38
THERAPIST: Stubborn, more so.
CLIENT: Or ignoring my needs. I took down everything in my Etsy shop. My Etsy store was made to order. People can still buy things from me, but they can only buy things that I've already made. I'm not going to have to . . .
THERAPIST: Give yourself a break.
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: Until you see what the doctor says.
CLIENT: I'm just so afraid I'll have to get surgery and not be able to use my hand at all. 00:09:08
THERAPIST: That, I know, is a really scary thought, but let's deal with it when you find out if that's the case. I know it's hard not to wonder about the "what if's", but it might not be that. There may be other things that are recommended and surgery is a very scary option, I know.
CLIENT: Not even surgery, but being told I can't use my right hand. What if everything I'm doing right now, even the minimal things like showering, are damaging it beyond repair? Someone tells me I can't use my right hand, I can't do that. If they tell me I can't work, that's fine. If they tell me I can't knit, that's fine, too. I'm okay with that. I'm not okay with having to be physically reliant on someone else for my day-to-day survival and stuff. That's just not tenable. I would rather die than not be able to take care of myself that way. 00:10:23
THERAPIST: That's understandable. That's a really scary thought, not to be able to take care of yourself. Nobody has said that yet.
CLIENT: Nobody has said that it wasn't the case either, though. Nobody has said anything useful. All the doctor has said was, "Here. Have some Vicodin."
THERAPIST: You have not seen the doctor yet.
CLIENT: Yeah, well the doctor that I saw on Saturday.
THERAPIST: This was just in emergency care, right, and gave you something to get you through until you saw the person that needs to evaluate you. I know it's really hard not to let your mind go to all the worst-case scenarios, but just because that doctor on the weekend didn't say that that's not the case, doesn't mean that it is. She didn't say anything other than, "Here's something to help you manage the pain until you get the appropriate evaluation by someone who knows what they're talking about," for you. 00:11:23
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: Hands are very tricky and your hands are special. You need someone who knows what they're looking at and talking about to make an assessment and tell you how to treat it.
CLIENT: What do I do until then? Do I hurt myself more? Do I not do anything at all? I already feel useless as it is when I can't even cook or do the dishes and stuff. That's bad enough. At least I was able to get myself here and I'm getting to the music rehearsal tonight. Wednesday we have a minor performance, so I'll probably take a cab there and back since I can't really borrow Sydney car to drive because we learned that I'm a really bad driver when I can't use my right hand to its full extent. (chuckles) 00:12:25
THERAPIST: I think that's fine.
CLIENT: I somehow managed to get there but . . .
THERAPIST: But it's not safe.
CLIENT: Yeah, it's not safe. And Sydney can't find his glasses and hasn't been able to find them since Saturday, so that was this whole thing car deal on Saturday morning. He said he was going to take me to the doctor and it wasn't going to be a big deal; and then he couldn't find his glasses. I had to drive with my hand like it was.
THERAPIST: It seems like for this week you accept all the kinds of help that you can. That means that it's worth it to pay for taxis to avoid a dangerous driving situation or a really frustrating situation. It's one week and safety is important, so there's not a convenience where you need to get to where you go. From what I've heard - your telling me about what your parents have said to things in the past - this is an instance where it would make sense to pay for transportation. With regard to food and stuff like that, as many things that you can - I know being independent is really important to you, so thinking about the things that you can eat one-handed and left-handed, maybe it's whatever you can do or however Sydney can step in and help. You've done a lot to help him. This is a time when it makes sense for you to ask for some help back. 00:13:53
CLIENT: Sometimes he can and sometimes he still feels really depressed; like there was one time that he couldn't get me ice and I was like, "Is it that unreasonable?" The problem was that the ice was on the other side of the house and I was in the main kitchen freezer and the door to the meat kitchen gets stuck really easily, so on a normal day it usually takes me two hands to get through it, so when I couldn't really use my right hand I couldn't get it open with my left hand.
THERAPIST: And he really feels like he can't go over on the other side of the house?
CLIENT: He was having trouble moving, getting up. He eventually did. Since then I've been taking the ice packs and putting them in the freezer on my side of the house, so that way I wouldn't have to . . .
THERAPIST: It would make it easier for both you and him. 00:14:41
CLIENT: Yeah. I can't lift heavy things, [ ] (inaudible at 00:14:48) even something like lifting the jug of milk.
THERAPIST: It's really heavy.
CLIENT: It's really heavy. He'd have to do that. We made mac and cheese from a box last night and he's all like, "You know you're not that helpless. You can do some things." I'm like, "Okay, fine. I can stir the macaroni and cheese. It's not really much of a help for you. (chuckles) You might as well make it yourself at that point."
THERAPIST: What about — I know it's more expensive to buy things like milk boxes like juice boxes — are there any kosher products that you could buy that are single-serve so they're much lighter? 00:15:24
CLIENT: Single-serving would have been the correct size for the [ ] (inaudible at 00:15:25) and being that I have to go grocery shopping, that would be hard to get it. [ ] (inaudible at 00:15:37) goes grocery shopping when she goes grocery shopping. I would feel bad to make her go out and get this one thing for me when it's not that I have to have it.
THERAPIST: Is there a convenience store that they carry something like that — that you could swing by to just get on your way home from somewhere?
CLIENT: And carry it back with my . . . ?
THERAPIST: Over your shoulder. Over that (indicates) shoulder. In the bag.
CLIENT: I don't know. I feel like that sort of stuff would be at high risk or something and not quite on the way. It's not an easy option. It doesn't seem like it would be saving me that much convenience in the end. It would be more trouble than it's worth to do it.
THERAPIST: Can you order from Peapod? Do they have any kosher items available?
CLIENT: I've never actually ordered from them, so I'm not sure what the delivery charge is and stuff. 00:16:35
THERAPIST: There is usually an ad on the T for your first delivery free. Google that. (laughs)
CLIENT: Okay.
THERAPIST: I've seen them go by on busses and things like that. You can Google it for this sort of one-time thing.
CLIENT: Peapod is just stop-and-shop, right?
THERAPIST: Yes.
CLIENT: Okay, then whatever is kosher at stop-and-shop they would have, which is probably . . .
THERAPIST: I have never used them. I have had clients that have used their services in the past and what I've heard is that the selection is not exactly the same, but that it's pretty similar. There may be some things that you can't get, but it might be worth just looking at the website and having some things delivered. This is one of those times when it might be worth it. I know I've seen ads for either "first delivery free" or "first delivery some-amount-off," which might just pop up Googling their coupons. You might find something of value that would be able to be independent, to be able to get some things that make it easier and save you some trouble at this time. 00:17:50
CLIENT: Maybe but I haven't found anyplace that delivers Fraps. I even found this place that delivers ice cream and then they don't sell Fraps there. That's like the easiest to deliver form of ice cream. What is wrong with you people? They'd be able to deliver until 2 AM or something ridiculous like that. Yeah, that was sort of the feeling.
THERAPIST: There are some pre-made things — smoothies and type things — that are similar to that which would get you the same kind of ease and drinkability.
CLIENT: Yeah, but deliverable?
THERAPIST: That's why I was thinking Peapod, if they can do that refrigerated stuff for you. I'm just trying to give you that independence for you right now while you're waiting to hear what the doctor says and hear what the recommendations are for getting yourself well. 00:18:44
CLIENT: I'm so much tempted to sit around and not eat because eating is so much of a pain anyways. I'm just turning off people right now because I can't do anything useful at all. I can't do my chores, I can't knit or spin or do my art craft stuff or anything. I am completely useless right now. I have a hard enough time getting showered and dressed and stuff.
THERAPIST: Yeah, it's really hard.
CLIENT: Sometimes I'm thinking that I deserve to die or that I would be better off dead because if I can't use my hand, then I'm nothing. All this money that my parents spent to get me all these fancy degrees and if I can't use my hands, I don't know what kind of job I could get. I've essentially wasted about $200,000 of my parents' money. It wouldn't be wasted if I had a job but if I can't get a job because of this, then I've wasted $200,000 of my parents' and grandparents' money.
THERAPIST: We're not there. That's the worst-case scenario, that this is something that is going to result in you not having the use of that hand, and you're not there yet.
CLIENT: But I might be there.
THERAPIST: You don't know that. Predicting that outcome doesn't help you. 00:20:52
CLIENT: Not predicting that outcome doesn't help me, either. I think the [ ] (inaudible at 00:21:03). I could, in theory, in time, maybe be able to do some stuff, especially because I don't even know what set it off, because nothing in particular set it off. What they'll do with the descriptions - most job candidates must be able to lift 30 pounds or something. They put it in the job description, such that if you can't fill that part of the job then you can't get the job. Normally I can lift 30 pounds. Maybe not all the time. Maybe not in really high places because I'm not too sure I want to be lifting way above my head, but I can lift 30 pounds. 00:22:05
THERAPIST: It's very possible that you'll be able to do it again.
CLIENT: But it's also very possible that I won't be able to do it again.
THERAPIST: I guess that's possible, but what does it do for you to start predicting that and living based on that assumption now?
CLIENT: What if I told myself that I wouldn't have to go through any of this and I wouldn't be finding out that I can't use my hand?
THERAPIST: Is that what you want to do?
CLIENT: Only when I'm in lots and lots of pain. And right now I'm not in lots and lots of pain; but I feel like I'll probably be in lots and lots of pain later in the day or something, because it always ends up that I'm in lots and lots of pain at some point.
THERAPIST: Pain is really hard to cope with. 00:23:03
CLIENT: It just feels like nothing I do makes it better. I take off my wrist brace and put on ice. Ice is supposed to decrease the inflammation. Sometimes it helps and sometimes it doesn't. Sometimes getting to sleep is really, really hard because I have to find a window that the pain is gone away, put the wrist brace back on, fall asleep before the pain comes back, which is really, really hard to do.
THERAPIST: It sounds like the night time would be really important to use the Vicodin.
CLIENT: I did use the Vicodin.
THERAPIST: And sometimes it doesn't take away the pain?
CLIENT: And sometimes it doesn't take away the pain. Maybe I should switch back to the Percoset that Aimee gave me. Aimee gave me Percoset on Friday night when I was in lots of pain.
THERAPIST: Be careful you're not mixing.
CLIENT: I know.
THERAPIST: You shouldn't mix them.
CLIENT: Yeah, then I realized in retrospect that I forgot something for the doctor because I was already so frazzled about everything and late for the appointment. The list of medications that I have, I'm pretty sure doesn't include the Klonopin that I'm currently taking. It includes the [Xanax] (inaudible at 00:24:19) and I really don't know how close they are that it would really matter. I kind of don't feel like making another phone call, making another appointment to see whether or not it's okay. It hasn't done anything to me yet. I guess I could Google and see whether or not there is a drug interaction between the two of them. 00:24:41
THERAPIST: You could just ask a pharmacy. You can just call the pharmacist. You don't need an appointment for that. Pharmacists are really good about drug interactions. And if you fill all your scripts at the same place — do you?
CLIENT: Usually, but not this time.
THERAPIST: I know that you don't want to make a lot of phone calls, but you could make one phone call to your regular pharmacist and just get probably an answer to your question really quickly. And they are a really good source of information, better than Google. 00:25:10
CLIENT: I guess the question is what happens if they say that it has an interaction? Then what do I do?
THERAPIST: Then you find out how you space them so that it's safe for you. Because Clodopin is a short-acting medication, so if it turns out there is an interaction, you could find out, "How could I space it so that it's safe?" So you don't need to necessarily go without, but just find out if you need to be taking it within a certain distance from one another to be safe.
CLIENT: I know I'm supposed to take the Clodopin before I go to sleep and I'm supposed to take the Vicodin before I go to sleep.
THERAPIST: It might not be a problem at all, but it might be worth a phone call. It sounds like, at least for another week, this is going to be what you're doing to get yourself through.
CLIENT: I mean nothing bad has happened, so part of me is just like, "Well, nothing bad has happened so, therefore, it's all okay; and I don't need to bother calling the pharmacist if it's all okay." 00:26:11
THERAPIST: I'm glad nothing bad has happened.
CLIENT: Something bad could happen, I suppose.
THERAPIST: And I don't know enough about the different medications you are on. I know very little about the pain killer set of medications because it's not where my area is.
CLIENT: How long does someone on hold for the pharmacist, like if you're calling?
THERAPIST: That's going to be just luck of the draw, if it happens to be a busy day or not.
CLIENT: I really hate making phone calls. When I'm holding a phone, if I hold it up with my left hand and there's the wrist that I put it against my cheek and accidentally hang up; if I hold it up with my right hand . . .
THERAPIST: Your hand gets tired.
CLIENT: My hand gets tired.
THERAPIST: Do you have speaker?
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: So you can use that while you're on hold in order to cut down on the waiting time.
CLIENT: I do that sometimes.
THERAPIST: Yeah. That's healthier for everybody. Your cock-the-phone position is not good for anybody. I think this week while you wait for your appointment, be able to control where those thoughts go. It's one way of keeping down some of your anxiety because we just don't know. You don't know if this is going to be something that's an easy fix or short-term or long-term; you just don't know. 00:27:45
CLIENT: Yeah, because I have nothing to distract myself with.
THERAPIST: Yeah. Not a lot of fun stuff.
CLIENT: I can't go to work. You can't do anything except for watching TV or something; and then I feel so useless because all I'm doing is sitting around and watching TV and I'm not doing anything useful at all.
THERAPIST: Do you have a dictation program, like Dragon Dictation? I wonder if that's something that might be useful. Is that something that you could use for work or use to write? 00:28:28
CLIENT: Yeah, but you have to teach it to recognize your voice and stuff. It would help with some aspects of work but it wouldn't help with other aspects of work.
THERAPIST: Obviously, it can't lift for you. The only thing it can do is type for you.
CLIENT: Yeah, it can take my notes and stuff but it won't be able to write the numbers on the folders when I'm writing the numbers on the folders and stuff. It would only help in a limited sense, and I don't know how expensive such things are.
THERAPIST: I don't either.
CLIENT: I feel pretty silly like I probably could have gotten it for free had I like gotten it when I was in Divinity School because of the whole having-the-disability stuff there. It was offered and I was like, "Oh, I can totally type. It's totally fine," because at the time I could totally type. It was totally fine, but I might have been able to get it for free.
THERAPIST: You didn't need it then. It just came to mind, something that might give you an ability to be productive. Your education is what would help in some ways. You feel like your education is such a waste, but so much of your education is what's happening in your head — not what's happening in your hands. I think finding a way to get the stuff that's in your head out would be a way to use so much of what you know. 00:29:57
CLIENT: I guess if I had a student assistant something like that I could do all the thinking work. That would require creating such a position in the first place.
THERAPIST: But you could do something.
CLIENT: Maybe.
THERAPIST: But not right now.
CLIENT: I'm not even looking for jobs right now because I'm like what's the point of applying? Get an interview and then I'm too injured to do the job. Like I'm just holding off for at least a week or so until .
THERAPIST: Yeah. Until you can see the doctor and see what actually is going on, what actually is causing the pain.
CLIENT: Just seeing the doctor didn't take that long to get the Vicodin.
THERAPIST: In reality a week is not very long. I'm sure this week will feel very long.
CLIENT: I'm just so bored. Maybe I can do it with my wrist brace on, but it seems like a real stupid idea.
THERAPIST: And if you don't know what's wrong, if that's irritating it or making it worse, that might not be worth it this week. 00:31:10
CLIENT: I mean I still do need my hand for some things. I can do a lot of typing with my left hand, but it would be a lot better if there were any capital letters and stuff like that . I need my right hand for at least short periods of time, including getting onto my computer in the first place by typing in the password, because it's not something I can do with just my left hand because it doesn't have enough reach. Which, in retrospect, is really stupid. They tell you to have all the special symbols and do all these things.
THERAPIST: It's not stupid. Up until this week you were able to do it without problem. It's a much safer password.
CLIENT: In theory.
THERAPIST: In theory, and it was something you were very capable of doing. Right now you're not your typical self. 00:32:11
CLIENT: I wish there were something productive I could do. There is very little I can do.
THERAPIST: It's very hard to be without that dominant hand. It's amazing how much we don't recognize what we're doing.
CLIENT: I sort of knew that I was relying on my right hand. I knew if I ever broke my right hand I would be screwed, I would cease to be able to function. I knew that. I feel like I'm going to keep on cheating and using my right hand even if I keep it in the wrist brace. I took it out of the sling right now.
THERAPIST: I notice even when it's in the sling, it's hard not to use it.
CLIENT: Yeah. But I was not told not to use it.
THERAPIST: Right. Yet it feels like your instinct not to use it because it sounds like the emergency person you saw on the weekend didn't say that.
CLIENT: Yeah. She told me I should put ice on it and stuff and to take the Ibuprofin and take the Vicodin.
THERAPIST: You're doing those things.
CLIENT: I'm doing those things. She never said not to use my hand and she never . ., yeah.
THERAPIST: Well I think going by your pain you take pain as a signal. You're paying attention to when it hurts more, when it hurts less, what feels more taxing than other things. Use that, for right now, as your best guide. 00:34:05
CLIENT: Sometimes it is to the extent of hurting a little bit.
THERAPIST: Then that's when you stop.
CLIENT: But if it's like after the fact and after I've done all these other things or something, like starting to stitch, Five minutes later it hurts, or something like that. That's not going to be useful information.
THERAPIST: Well if that's consistently happening, you've tried it and it consistently hurts five minutes after you knit, that's pretty good feedback that knitting for right now is a no-go. But something like making yourself a sandwich might be more worthwhile because you do need to eat in order to keep up your strength to cope. Do you need to eat the most extravagant meals this week? No. But you've got to eat something. Whether it's mac and cheese that you can stir or ordering something — ice cream that you can lick.
CLIENT: [ ] (inaudible at 00:35:11) I can't even do the whole exercising thing because I'm injured. I really can't do anything useful at all whatsoever.
THERAPIST: Those are really hard feelings.
CLIENT: It's driving me crazy. It's one thing to put off writing letters and at least be spending time downstairs dying things in the basement and maybe I really can still dye things if I keep on the wrist brace and then I'll have a very brightly colored wrist brace. I think I could theoretically use my right hand to hold it in place and do all the work with my left hand, but I don't know if I've perfected it. I don't know that for a fact. I don't know how stupid it would be to try to . . .
THERAPIST: How much better would it make you feel if you could dye some wool this week?
CLIENT: It would definitely make me feel a little bit better, at least. I guess that would depend on how it came out and whether or not it hurt me to do so. Like if it came out nicely then, yes, it would definitely make me feel better. 00:36:44
THERAPIST: Because it would feel productive.
CLIENT: Yeah. Like right now I at least have some things that I dyed last week that I can take some pictures of, put online and feel a little bit productive. No more custom orders for now.
THERAPIST: Why don't you start with that first set of getting the stuff that you already have done up online. It would feel like you got something done, have something for your customers to look at. It sounds like that's putting minimal risk to injuring yourself. 00:37:19
CLIENT: Yeah. I mean I need both hands to operate the camera and stuff, but it's not that heavy. I haven't really tried that yet. So maybe. I guess it's better than doing nothing.
THERAPIST: This may be a good time to catch up on your [ ] (inaudible at 00:37:47) or read. You've enjoyed reading in the past.
CLIENT: It feels like when I read during the week I'm taking away my limited supply of books to read on Shabbat when I can only read books on Shabbat and it doesn't necessarily feel productive. It might be a distraction, but it's not like it would accomplish anything.
THERAPIST: But distraction is an important piece of coping right now as you wait for this appointment and find out what's really happening there. It's also supposed to be a very hot week, so distracting yourself by taking walks is probably — you may feel pretty limited by the heat and humidity, like you mentioned last time and the beginning part of the week is calling for lots of heat and humidity.
CLIENT: I should just never leave the house.
THERAPIST: Probably not tomorrow.
CLIENT: But I have to leave the house tomorrow.
THERAPIST: What's tomorrow?
CLIENT: I have a dentist's appointment. I'm going to take a cab to south station and take the train and then my mom is going to pick me up.
THERAPIST: So it will all be nice and air conditioned.
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: So how crazy an idea would it be to stay with your parents for a couple of days and let them help you since you're going to be there anyway?
CLIENT: Pretty crazy, especially because Wednesday I have the performance then I'm still [ ] (inaudible at 00:39:27) even if I'm skipping the rehearsal for it tonight and it would probably be miserable because if I do needing help showering I would rather have Sydney helping me and not my parents.
THERAPIST: So pretty crazy.
CLIENT: Yeah, it would be a pretty crazy idea.
THERAPIST: At least I know that the idea stands.
CLIENT: Yeah, and I'm going to be staying with them for Shabbat.
THERAPIST: With your parents?
CLIENT: With my parents, yeah, because they're sponsoring Kiddush so I said I would go, but now I'm sort of regretting that.
THERAPIST: At least mom can cook for you — or dad, whoever does the cooking.
CLIENT: My dad can't cook to save his life. He can't cook at all whatsoever, so it would be my mom doing everything. My mom is going to make me lunch tomorrow. I am going to come down early so we can have lunch.
THERAPIST: Which is good.
CLIENT: Yeah. 00:40:49
THERAPIST: So you do have some distractions to get you through.
CLIENT: Going to the dentist — I don't know if that's a . . .
THERAPIST: Not a fun distraction, but it is a distraction. You won't be sitting at home thinking about the things you can't do. And getting your teeth cleaned. (laughs)
CLIENT: I'll be sitting in the dentist's chair.
THERAPIST: probably a better job than you could do even without a hand injury. And you have the concert on Wednesday and I would imagine your singing is not impacted by your hand.
CLIENT: No. My ability to move is, though, so I'm not doing any choreography that we have. Also, I don't know if we have microphones, but it's optimal to hold my microphone with my left hand, if I have one, because one, the song we're singing I have a solo in, so I need a microphone; or it might just be in a stand; or we might not have any at all, because it's not like the biggest room ever. It's only two songs; it's not going to be a very long distraction. It's more like just the getting there and getting back. I was tempted to say that I couldn't do the performance either, but I was just like, "I'll see how I feel." 00:42:00
THERAPIST: And you might actually enjoy it. You've enjoyed performing in the past.
CLIENT: Other than the getting there and getting back part.
THERAPIST: What makes that so difficult?
CLIENT: I have to get there and I have to get back and so either we find Sydney's glasses and he's able to drive me, or . . .
THERAPIST: You take a cab.
CLIENT: Or I take a cab and spend lots of money for this two-song performance. Neither of these seems like the best option ever, but I'll probably end up taking the cab.
THERAPIST: Take the cab and let your parents pay for it rather than taking it out of your money. They have said that they would pay for these things if you needed them. In the past you've regretted not using the money they give you for the things it's really allocated for, but putting it towards other things; so be honest with yourself about if he doesn't find his glasses and this is something that you need, and letting it come from the place that it's sort of slated to come from. 00:43:14
CLIENT: But that requires actually asking my parents for more money before I've actually run out of money.
THERAPIST: Asking your parents to pay for the cab ride that you needed to take if he doesn't find his glasses?
CLIENT: Or even if he does. If he's too depressed to drive me or something like he can't guarantee it. Normally the way I could go around that is like, "Okay, I'll borrow the car and drive."
THERAPIST: But it's different this week and it's not really safe for you to drive.
CLIENT: I kind of think it's just a bad idea if I turn really slowly.
THERAPIST: A car is not a thing to gamble with. If you're making a sandwich and it's sloppy and it doesn't come out exactly the way it normally would or if you're fixing something and it's harder, there is no big consequence; but if you can't grip with your hand and you can't make a turn and you careen into another car, that's a pretty big consequence. 00:44:06
CLIENT: It's not like they just — I shouldn't make that decision for them.
THERAPIST: It seems like driving could be something really dangerous if your body is not working the way it usually does and you can't rely upon that hand right now.
CLIENT: There are some people who drive with one hand.
THERAPIST: There are. But you're not one of them.
CLIENT: It's just that the left hand doesn't hold straight so I still do need my right hand.
THERAPIST: And you're not used to that. If this was the way you always did things, then you might adapt to be perfectly safe that way, but you haven't done that yet or you might not ever have to do that. Right now you're injured. It's not that you're coping differently. You're injured. 00:44:54
CLIENT: Yeah. It just really sucks. I've had a bit of my freedom taken away from me, too, and not be able to do anything. To do anything and I don't want to hurt people either.
THERAPIST: It's really hard to have the freedom and then to have your independence limited.
CLIENT: It's like I'm 27 years old. I'm too old/too young for this to be happening to me.
THERAPIST: You don't know what's happening to you. Right now you're injured. If it turns out that you need to find new ways to become independent again, I will help you with that endeavor and figure out what we can do, but I'm not ready to start imagining that yet because you haven't seen the doctor. You haven't seen a doctor that can tell you what's really going on. 00:45:47
CLIENT: The doctor might tell me it's impossible to become independent again.
THERAPIST: Perhaps, but we don't know that and there's nothing to indicate that. You've been — and it sounds like when you hurt yourself on the dig — in this position before and then you had all this time when you were fine in between. That was a long time ago. We don't know exactly what's causing the pain right now, but it could be unrelated, it could be something that's temporary. You just don't know until you see the specialist, which you will do on Monday. Until then you can keep your mind in a place that makes it possible to get to Monday. 00:46:35
CLIENT: Or spend the entire time drugged up on Vicodin sleeping.
THERAPIST: It doesn't sound like that's the choice you've made thus far.
CLIENT: No, but it doesn't mean it's an impossible choice.
THERAPIST: That's true.
CLIENT: I could take the Vicodin when I get home and take it all afternoon and sleep and sleep and sleep.
THERAPIST: Yes you can.
CLIENT: I don't know if it's the best idea, but it's not the worst idea either. It's not like if I did end up going a few days without feeding myself I would starve to death. It's not like I don't have all these reserves of fat stored in my body that I can live off of. 00:47:25
THERAPIST: True. Although you did mention earlier that you're supposed to be taking the Ibuprofin, at least, with food.
CLIENT: Okay. Just don't take the Ibuprofin and use the ice instead? And I mean I have been feeling nauseous even when I have been eating food, so like maybe it's preventing me from feeling more nauseous.
THERAPIST: It might.
CLIENT: Sometimes sleepy and tired . . .
THERAPIST: You won't know. I trust you to make some choices that are good for you and to call me if it gets to a place where you start having those thoughts about hurting yourself.
CLIENT: I've been sort of having them on and off like all the time or whenever it's been hurting a lot.
THERAPIST: Well, you know the difference because we've talked about it before, between having a thought and having a plan and intent. If you come to a place where you start planning to follow through on thoughts, you call me or you call the emergency room first. If you're having thoughts you know how to distract yourself from them — call a friend. That's when it's totally worth it to pick up one of your books. You've kind of been through this and you've worked with having thoughts before, so you gauge for yourself what your level of seriousness with all of them is. I am here to help you keep yourself safe. If I don't hear from you before then I'll see you on Friday, right?
CLIENT: Right.
THERAPIST: Okay.
END TRANSCRIPT
