TRANSCRIPT OF AUDIO FILE:
______________________________________________________________________________
BEGIN TRANSCRIPT:
THERAPIST: Sure.
CLIENT: You do know the microphone is at the top of the device, right? It's right there.
THERAPIST: Oh, I've had it backwards the whole time?
CLIENT: Yeah. It's right there.
THERAPIST: Thank you. I had no idea. The recordings have been coming out pretty clear.
CLIENT: Okay. I just wanted to let you know.
THERAPIST: But no, I'm happy you did. Thank you. That wasn't a silly question, that was a very—- 
CLIENT: It wasn't a silly question, just a silly thing to spout off—- 
THERAPIST: It was a very helpful piece of advice, that's what it was.
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: Thank you.
CLIENT: They're always changing it so different models have it different places.
THERAPIST: I see. Yeah, I guess I was thinking of the phone with the microphone at the bottom, right?
CLIENT: Yeah. The first one did too.
THERAPIST: Uh-huh. The first tablet?
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: Which is the one I had before this one. But thanks. 
CLIENT: Sorry I wasn't able to make it yesterday.
THERAPIST: Yeah, I hope you're feeling better.
CLIENT: I am. Just unfortunately, due to some of the medication, I am getting very—- I have been told by doctors that 95 percent of people do not react this badly, blah blah blah. But for some reason, my body just doesn't like poison. (laughter)
[01:04.2]
THERAPIST: [Funny thing about that]. 
CLIENT: So I had the fabulous experience of throwing up at work, which was great. 
THERAPIST: Thank you again for the case, by the way.
CLIENT: Oh yeah, no problem.
THERAPIST: I use it at home a lot. 
CLIENT: Okay, no big deal. But it's been very—- you're very very welcome. It's been, like I said, the past few days have been hard for me because I'm already feeling crummy. It's going to take a very long time for my immune system to regulate enough to where I can feel a difference. So basically what I do is get really miserable for a while. (pause) I'm just really frustrated because it's like I know the vast majority of people do not have these problems, but it is—- it takes me a much larger dose to have these problems normally.
[02:05.8]
Everybody has them at the level for leukemia, but not at this low dose. So it becomes kind of problematic.
THERAPIST: So what are you having?
CLIENT: Nausea, sweating, that kind of stuff. Normal stuff for ingesting poison. [Not being able to sleep right]. In general, I've been extremely moody, that kind of stuff. I don't know if that's really—- I think it's more about the fact that I'm nauseated that it makes me moody. I don't know.
THERAPIST: (inaudible at 02:31.3) 
CLIENT: Yeah. It's been—- 
THERAPIST: That just sounds awful.
CLIENT: And of course I have to be really careful now with my teeth because when you throw up this much, you have to worry about—- so I have to go to the dentist to make sure that everything is going to be okay. They'll probably give me a special toothpaste. It's like everything kicks off this huge reaction, and that's kind of the reason why I get pissed off when everyone is like "Well, they have drugs to treat these." I'm like "Yeah, ummmm, yeah."
[03:05.2]
Anti-nausea screws with your dopamine, so when you screw with your dopamine, of course there's going to be all kinds of, you know. Because apparently that's part of it too. I am very fortunate in that a very very expensive drug is paid for by my health insurance, which a lot of people cannot get paid for. For some reason, my insurance considers all methotrexate to be chemotherapy and therefore that unlocks me to take anti-nausea chemotherapy drugs. You don't see it at my dose being for rheumatoid arthritis versus something else. So if I just had "stomach flu" and my doctor called it in, they wouldn't pay for it. But I guess when you have certain things filled, it unlocks other things to be able to do—- I know.
THERAPIST: (inaudible) cascade as well (inaudible) 
[03:58.5]
CLIENT: Yeah, so it also allows me to get zit cream because normally at my age, they do not pay for Retin A. But due to the fact that something happens in your skin, Retin A sometimes becomes very necessary because you break out in the weirdest places. 
So that's been sort of a constant battle right now. I keep trying to tell myself that it's going to get better. I've done this before, more than once, and yes it's anecdotal and it may change entirely, but it really doesn't do a whole lot to change. But I keep trying to do this because I need to stay hopeful. Otherwise what am I going to do? I'm just going to despair, and that can be less than desirable at the best.
THERAPIST: Absolutely.
CLIENT: So I—- (pause) Yeah. 
[04:59.6]
I think we're going to try and let Dave and I do something couple-y on Friday. Nothing big, just something small to do because I just really need—- I don't know if I'll be able to turn things off but I need to be able to sort of escape my life, even if it's just for a little bit. The problem is that I've been so damn picky that last time we were supposed to go see a movie, we looked at all the movies that were on there and I'm like "No. I'm not spending my money to see any of this crap."
So it's been so like—- because I do things so infrequently, when I want to do something I get very specialized in terms of—- it's not like I want what I want, but I want to not feel bad about it. I forced myself to go out Friday night even though I wasn't feeling it, because some people at work were doing it and I wanted to just get myself used to doing it. Just to try and do it. I was miserable, you know. I'm not sure if it really helped. We'll see. I'll try it again. The walk was at least decent for me, I guess. 
[06:09.3]
THERAPIST: That just sounds brutal.
CLIENT: It is fucking brutal.
THERAPIST: It sounds like—- 
CLIENT: Well, that was before the nauseous thing that was on Friday. Sunday is when I started doing the steps though, but I still didn't feel great. Yeah, being nauseous all the time is kind of brutal. More than kind of brutal. There are a lot of things I can tolerate, but for some reason nausea is one that I can't. A lot of people are like "Yeah, I feel kind of queasy." I've never been good at being hung over. I've never been very good about the stomach flu. I just become—- with certain things I can be very tough. When it comes to nausea, I'm really really a wimp. And that's okay. I don't want to become tough. It just—- you know. (pause)
[07:00.6]
Like I said, it does a lot of changes to you that are more than just a little bit annoying. So hopefully I can at least get through six weeks of it, enough to be able to prove to my doctor that we should try something else. This is almost always what they do, no matter what, and then they add something else on. I'd rather take this away and try something that's stronger, because now I do methotrexate plus Enbrel or methotrexate plus Humira. What I'm trying to get them to let me do is some other disease-modifying thing without the methotrexate because it's just too hard on me. And they don't really understand the mechanism behind it anyways. They know it's an anti-metabolite, but that's about it. 
[08:02.6]
You basically start manufacturing a defective immune system instead of just downwardly regulating it, but they don't know why. Not that it doesn't work, but it's not even a good principle of like—- you know. 
But that's pretty much what I've been up to. Instead of trying to deal with selling a car—- unfortunately selling a car yourself is a giant pain in the neck over a certain amount of money, just because most people don't have it on hand, they're trying to take out loans and stuff, and it becomes complicated. So we're going to meet with a broker tonight to see if they will buy it off of us, just to not have a car which would be less—- I mean, yes, it's a burden but we can do Zipcars or something. Because I just don't like the fact that I am short almost all the time on that. 
[09:02.9]
THERAPIST: With the car payment?
CLIENT: On car payments, yeah. It is worth much more than the payments, but it's still, you know. It would just be one less thing to have to complicate my life right now. I did—- what was I going to say about all this? I don't know. I have a very fuzzy brain and don't feel that great, and I'm very cranky. 
The thing that I find to be the most obnoxious about this is that I—- even when I'm just hurting like I'm hurting but without the nausea, I get restless yet I can't go out and do anything. I get restless and I don't want to be sitting here, but yet I physically can't. So it gets me in this terrible cycle of grumpiness. I don't want to be standing here, you know.
[10:01.3]
THERAPIST: Right. What is it that makes (inaudible)? Is it the nausea that makes it uncomfortable to stand in one place, or is it—- 
CLIENT: It's the head. My head is bothering me.
THERAPIST: I see.
CLIENT: We sort of pinpointed the primary swelling to a non-mobile joint which makes it a little bit more complicated. If it's non-mobile, then it's very difficult to do any quick fixes. I do not like—- I was on prednisone for years. That's how I gained all this weight. It made me into a psycho on the inside. I mean, I know—- on the inside I really felt nuts. Really nuts, as in wanting to pick up a chair and go after somebody. I was on 80 milligrams of prednisone.
THERAPIST: That's a lot.
CLIENT: That's a lot, yeah. That's enough that you could run through poison ivy and not get an allergic reaction. It's enough that basically when I fell down just a few steps, I broke a hand. You don't re-up calcium, so you get very brittle bones. 
[11:10.5]
THERAPIST: I see.
CLIENT: Yeah. Yeah. So, I mean, it's a very dangerous level, so I just don't want that. But I will let them give me steroid injections because they're localized and that kind of thing. But when it's a non-mobile joint which is one of the joints in my hip, the one that connects the pelvis to the spinal cord, it's [a no for me]. It's a non-mobile joint, so that becomes a lot more complicated because they can't really inject it. There's no space in between really. Well, there is, but they'd rather not. 
THERAPIST: I see. They're much more willing to inject the steroids into a mobile joint.
CLIENT: Yeah. The reason being that as you move it, it basically distributes and a couple of other things. 
[12:01.3]
But that's been pretty much my life really. I'm trying to keep going. I'm trying really hard to put on a good face at work. That's just been rough for me. 
THERAPIST: Yeah, I think especially with the increased schedule. 
CLIENT: Yeah. And next week is going to be even more so like that. We have announcement, plus I have an all-night meeting on Sunday. Well, not all night. I go to work at 9:00 a.m., I leave at 11:00 p.m., so that might as well be all night. There's a two-hour break in the middle, but that doesn't really count. Like, what am I going to do? So that's been pretty much—- like I said, I'm just trying to keep going. I'm working on it.
THERAPIST: Yeah. It's not easy. 
[12:56.8]
CLIENT: No. No, it isn't. I feel bad because I know that some of the people in my life right now have been kind of hurt by the fact that I say "I don't feel really well right now. I know that you want to talk, but I can't." Like my mom. She called me last night and I'm like "Mom, honestly—-" More often than not, I tell her that I can talk for a couple of minutes, but there's nothing in the world that's going to make me really feeling that well, and I just feel like I don't really want to talk. 
And she doesn't take it entirely personally, but I know that she's hurt. She's not as much of a fixer as I am, but she wants to do something. I mean, she says that she feels completely paralyzed because she has no idea of what to do. She's definitely gotten—- she had this period for about a year where she was convinced there was something she did wrong that made me so sick, which luckily she's gotten past.
[14:07.4]
That was very hard for me. We kept reinforcing that's it not anything she did, but there are so many articles out there talking about what can cause autoimmune diseases and all these silly theories about them that—- they sound plausible to someone who doesn't actually have a medical background at all. So she's primarily a real estate attorney, so she has no background in that. So when they say things like "In '78 if your children were vaccinated for swine flu—-" she would believe it. At least mostly believe it. But she's past that, thank God. [Because there's one thing worse than feeling bad and also feeling like] (inaudible). But, you know, it's just been a lot.
[15:11.1]
THERAPIST: What do you do like when you're at home?
CLIENT: I sleep, mostly. I try and distract myself, that kind of thing. It depends. Mostly sleep. I listen to audio books. I attempt to clean the house from time to time. I used to be really good about it, but for the past two weeks I've been really lax. But it's also because my work schedule is kind of upset and I'm more exhausted. But, you know, that's pretty much the big things. 
[15:59.1]
I try really hard to do something nice for myself, at least, but lately I haven't really wanted to. And I don't want to—- because my husband is now consistently going to work at least. I'd say he's got at least a good 25 or 30 hours of work a week now.
THERAPIST: That's great.
CLIENT: He has to, though.
THERAPIST: For whatever reason—- 
CLIENT: Either that or he's hiding it, which could be that. I don't want to call attention too much to bring him home so that I can start this process again. I will do it if I need to, but not really that much.
THERAPIST: What are the things that you do for yourself?
CLIENT: It all depends. Not much lately. Mostly I'll try and sort of catch up with friends online, that kind of thing. Do some reading.
[17:06.6]
Occasionally watch television. Shows that I would not necessarily, you know, consider to be—- they're very mind-numbing things that are ridiculously bad, but I'll do that and like make myself a cup of tea or something like that. (pause) I used to do a lot of stuff like that, self-pampering, take baths and things like that, but my current place doesn't have a very good bathtub, so it's kind of worthless to do it. (pause) But yeah, I guess, you know.
[17:55.9]
I feel like everything that I try and do for myself somehow has this terrible pain in the ass aspect that sometimes may not be worth it, you know. Like I try to go out and buy myself some clothing, and I had a really hard time finding anything that fit right or even fit at all. It was like you know what, screw this, I don't feel like having to go shopping or keep sending clothes back but also shopping, shopping, shopping all day to get one pair of pants that might fit. That's just not very much fun for me. So I don't really do a whole lot of that anymore. I did start to—- oh gosh, I just lost my train of thought there. (pause)
[19:01.4]
Oh yeah, that's right. I have been trying to occasionally do more like—- I'm sorry. Like I said, I've been very very out of it. That kind of thing.
THERAPIST: You don't need to apologize to me.
CLIENT: I'm also apologizing to myself, believe it or not.
THERAPIST: Okay.
CLIENT: That kind of thing. I get a lot of feelings of happiness out of accomplishing things. So a lot of times what I'll do is I'll make lists of things and get them all done, and that actually makes me feel really good. Even if they're silly things. (pause) But it does make me feel like I've done something, and I feel good about myself. (pause)
[20:10.1]
Before this, most of the time, I would—- I didn't spend a whole—- I mean, I used to be—- it's funny, because I was just saying some of this to Dave, how much things have changed since I've met him, but also how they came in phases of things changing. Like before we moved here, I could afford to go and get my hair done every six weeks at least. We were broke, but I had enough money for that. I could get it dyed, go do something like that. I could get my nails done, things like that. 
Here—- and it's not the fact that the cost of the hair or anything like that is that much more expensive—- it is, it's about 20 percent more, but that's not really it. It's just the cost of living, our cost of living is so much worse. When I lived in Kentucky, I was living it up because most people don't realize how cheap it is to live in Kentucky. 
[21:06.1]
THERAPIST: Yeah, I knew somebody who moved from Manhattan to Lexington.
CLIENT: Oh yeah.
THERAPIST: I forget what the multiplier was.
CLIENT: And Lexington is the most expensive part of Kentucky. 
THERAPIST: Uh-huh. But it's cheaper—- 
CLIENT: Vastly cheaper. And so, you know, I would get my groceries delivered. I would do all this kind of stuff to take care of myself and just for sanity purposes. It wasn't that bad. But I was also miserable because I didn't really have people around. Even now when I don't talk to people that much, it wasn't that much of a discrepancy in life. I felt like I was surrounded by people, especially women, who had no consistent interests, background, something like that, that I do, even here.
[22:05.4]
The level of their education was much lower, things like that. Even in the technology world—- forgive me, I just need to check something really quickly. (pause) So that was a lot harder. People weren't that much interested in travel, that kind of thing. (pause) So I just sort of—- but I just—- I didn't feel like being out, although other people that I know are like I'm kind of pushing them away because I'm just so exhausted that the idea of just going and doing something is sometimes too much. 
THERAPIST: Yeah.
CLIENT: And I'm so torn because it's—- (pause) It's not like, you know, I do want to be around people. It just happens to be that right now a lot of it—- the isolation is all on me.
[23:18.0]
I'm exhausted or, you know—- especially when I'm like this, I really don't feel comfortable being around people. 
THERAPIST: Is it hard to be here?
CLIENT: No, not really, not so bad.
THERAPIST: Good.
CLIENT: It's hard to form my thoughts.
THERAPIST: Is that because you're in so much pain moment-to-moment, or because you're so fried from being in pain and being sick?
CLIENT: Both. It's everything put together. It's an accumulation as well as at-the-moment too. 
THERAPIST: It must be hard to just think in general, I imagine. I mean, in other words, to put your thoughts together, to focus on anything, to concentrate.
[24:07.0]
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: To enjoy things.
CLIENT: Pretty much. On Monday, which technically was a holiday but we still had some training on an application, I pretty much zoned out around 45 minutes into the two-hour training. I did everything I could to keep focus, but I couldn't. Luckily when it looks like I'm not paying attention, it's the same as everybody else who plays with their phone all the time, so it's not as obvious. But to me, I really like to pay attention in classes, that kind of thing.
THERAPIST: Sure. Are you going to be especially busy next week? I guess they'll make the announcement, right?
CLIENT: Yeah. Well, we don't know. We don't know.
THERAPIST: I don't mean to be asking—-
[25:00.2]
CLIENT: No, no, it's nothing like that. 
THERAPIST: I'm just trying to anticipate how busy you're going to be because it sounds like it would be a good time for you not to be any busier than you are.
CLIENT: (snickers) It's actually more likely the week after is going to be a lot worse. But I have a feeling that a lot of the meeting next Sunday and then having to get back into work only a few hours later, is really going to be [what is] going to wipe me out. So by Tuesday, I'll be knocked out. And Wednesday I'll probably watch the announcement from home. (pause) Yeah. 
I'm just reticent to take risks these days, basically. The silliest risks, but some of the risks, you know. (pause) Silly things like buying new shampoo. Things like that. I mean, wow, I am so broke and I have so little tolerance for things not working the way I want them to that I am unwilling to do that.
[26:06.2]
I'm not normally that hesitant about things, you know, but I just—- it's just I need some things to be a little predictable. I feel bad about being this way. I really do. (pause) So, it just—- yeah. I feel really bad about being unpredictable. I mean, wanting predictable things to the level of not wanting to buy something that I haven't tried yet at all. 
[27:00.1]
I think really the big thing is that the simplest things give me exceptional anxiety. (pause) Just like trying to purchase something online or do this or do that. It's like I've just got a tremendous amount of anxiety over it. (pause) About anything that is unknown to me. (pause) I've been trying to make myself do it as much as possible.
THERAPIST: Like?
CLIENT: Like for example, going to a restaurant where I know nothing about what's on the menu or anything like that before I go. Buying new shampoo, that kind of stuff. I'm hesitant—- 
THERAPIST: Making you terribly anxious?
[28:00.9]
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: Huh. Do you know why?
CLIENT: Usually because I know I can't afford it anyway, and therefore if it's going to be crap, I'm just going to feel terrible about it. I've recently bought things or done things in which they've fallen apart immediately or something like that, and I'm just holding onto that fear of it happening again and again, if that makes sense.
THERAPIST: As far as—- 
CLIENT: It's like literally just about everything. Everything from, like I said, trying new shampoo and realizing that it's crap.
THERAPIST: What kind of crummy do you feel if it doesn't pan out? I mean, do you feel very self-critical, do you feel very frustrated and low, do you feel very sad?
CLIENT: A little bit of everything. Mostly hesitant to do anything else right now, especially hesitant to try anything else like that. 
[29:00.7]
But yeah. Not entirely self-critical because unless it's something I feel like it was my fault for not doing—- like I was told by somebody at work that anybody that doesn't check out a place on Yelp, if you eat there it's your own risk. Like okay, sure. That kind of thing. That's kind of true, but it's not feeling as crummy like "Wow, I wish I could have that back." I have never felt this obsessed about money before. (pause) It's mostly due to the fact that I don't—- 
THERAPIST: Do you feel that way about everything, like if you invest in anything, if you make an effort to do anything and it doesn't work out, you feel crummy? Including buying things, but also including trying to do things to make yourself feel better?
[29:58.4]
CLIENT: A little bit. About the only thing I can think of right now that used to be like that was the fact that I would actually get stressed out while getting a massage if I wasn't actually relaxing enough, because I was wasting my money on this. But that's been a while since I felt that way. But most things, yes. I feel like I—- I feel like I can't—- I feel like it has to be me, at least some of it because the world doesn't get that upset or that concerned about things. And so—- there's not much I do in my life that everybody else doesn't ever—- you know what I mean? Like most are things everybody else does, so why is it that I am, you know, getting that stressed out about it? That kind of stuff. (pause)
[31:05.4]
It's just—- (pause) I feel like whenever I try and start to do something, it always ends up becoming more of a hassle than it's worth. Therefore, I just sort of feel like a lot of times it's better not to do anything at all about it. Like right now, there's a problem with my speakers. There's a funny crackle within certain frequencies. I could in theory start pulling out all the wires and start cleaning the contacts and this and that, but I'm afraid if I start hunting this down, that it's going to be like—- if I start this project, I'm going to want to finish the project and therefore it's going to be a giant pain in the neck. And possibly never actually figure out what the problem is [and it's actually the controller].
[31:58.2]
I do not have—- that's not an irrational fear. I've had this problem before. Not necessarily with my speakers, but trying to track down what the issue is. And so—- (pause) And I'm not defensive about the fact of it being an irrational fear. I just feel like I needed to say that I've got real-world experience for a lot of this stuff, you know. 
THERAPIST: I know, it's a gamble. Like it would be sort of investing in a way, and doing that as a project and not knowing whether you're getting a return or not. Whether you'd actually be able to fix it or whether it would be time and energy wasted.
CLIENT: Exactly. Especially when certain things are very painful or very difficult to do.
THERAPIST: Sure. I imagine doing stuff with your fingers probably hurts a lot. And also just having to kind of pull yourself together and make yourself focus on something rather than just being crashed out in bed.
CLIENT: Yeah. That kind of stuff, just feeling like when the results aren't even—- I mean, a little positive is fine, but when things always turn out badly, it just—- 
THERAPIST: Of course.
[33:03.5]
CLIENT: And so I've found it's a lot easier for me to stick with things that I know.
THERAPIST: Yeah, I would imagine you are kind of having to hang onto anything you possibly can to feel good.
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: So you don't want to be taking any risks. 
CLIENT: No.
THERAPIST: Like, you know, if you only had $5 to spend, you wouldn't want to invest it in something risky. It sounds like everything is like that.
CLIENT: Yeah. And the only reason that it's like this is because I have a lot of people I know who are in the same boat, but they just don't care, and the fact that I don't believe in not paying off my creditors. 
THERAPIST: Well, we're not talking, at least in my mind, just money.
CLIENT: Energy too.
THERAPIST: Yeah. Fixing the speakers won't cost you, I don't think, anything significant, right? It's just about taking—- 
CLIENT: No. I mean, I'm going to have to go out and go searching for a spool of wire or something like that. And I have found it difficult because I don't—- 
[34:04.1]
And this is weird. This is more for me. I have just been finding it hard to navigate finding obscure things in this town, which I'm sure is perfectly easy to find if I'd be willing to, but I don't always want to. Like finding a tube of silicone that goes—- like when I was trying to fix the tank thing. I was like there's no way in the world I'm driving out there to get that. There has to be an easier way. I can't find one. I ended up getting it online because it was just easier that way. Or speaker wire or something like that. 
And it's not like I haven't lived in places other than where I do, you know. It isn't like this is the first time I've moved away from home and therefore I'm in places that are unfamiliar. I've been able to find stuff like in Holland when I needed it. So, you know, it's not like that's difficult.
THERAPIST: No, it has everything to do with your energy level and—- 
CLIENT: Willingness for frustration.
THERAPIST: Pain.
[35:03.9]
CLIENT: Yeah. And willing to deal with people. For example, there is a—- I just—- a while back I wanted to buy some new undergarments, and I saw there was a nice boutique around here. I got treated so badly by girls who really didn't know—- by the owners apparently—- that I never want to go back and deal with that again. Not just that place, but I do not need to be told that I need—- I've already had one breast reduction. I do not need to be told that I am only special order. I'm not that different than most of reality, that kind of thing. And I don't think it even dawned in their little brains that that was going to be upsetting, you know. 
Things like that. It's just like I don't need to deal with this situation. But I'm not going to be like "Oh well, I'm afraid I may have dental work, therefore I won't go to the dentist" kind of person. It's not like that. It's really for just little things. I'm not going to do anything that's dangerous. Just life-improving, maybe.
[36:05.9]
So, you know, it is—- sometimes the act of fixing things myself, although nobody else would necessarily do it, the problem is sometimes it's really really empowering and helpful for myself. I mean, the fact that last year I fixed my air conditioner and nobody else fixes their air conditioner but me. Well, not nobody, but of the crowd sourcing—-
THERAPIST: Right. You can do projects like that, and it just also makes you feel effective.
CLIENT: Yeah. But when these kind of projects—- if I realize that I can't fix them fast, it's not a big deal. But when I spend like—- I feel like I'm dumping my (inaudible at 36:49.6) the equivalent of something that's leaking or something like that, it just makes me so frustrated.
THERAPIST: Yeah.
[37:01.6]
CLIENT: I know that things are going to get better. I do. Just right now, I have no idea when. 
THERAPIST: When will they keep you on methotrexate—- 
CLIENT: Probably at least six weeks to see if it works. But the problem is feeling empowered enough to talk to my doctor about it to get the right results, you know. Sometimes they'll be like "You know, let's try this, let's try that. Let's give you more folic acid. That's supposed to help with tolerance" or whatever. Most doctors really don't take pain that seriously, you know. It's really a quality of life thing for me. (pause) And I don't really know what to do to be able to adequately express how I'm feeling without necessarily giving the exact wrong information such that—- how do I explain this?
[38:07.4]
So that people don't necessarily take it the wrong way. Like if I start to talk about how much pain I'm in too forcefully, then they will either think that I'm drug-seeking and/or mentally unstable. Something like that.
THERAPIST: Like it's psychosomatic.
CLIENT: Yeah. But mostly drug-seeking. I mean, except for very bad situations, I haven't in several years. That's not the—- and to be honest, I don't like myself when I'm on it. I really don't. Better than what I am like right now, but you know. It's not something psychosomatic so much as over-exaggerating.
THERAPIST: Histrionic, kind of.
[38:59.7]
CLIENT: It's really hard when you're being kept up in the middle of the night with something and can't find a way to get comfortable. That's actually another thing.
I have already tried to purchase things to make it easier to sleep, and they have been a waste of money. Therefore I'm unwilling to spend more money on it since they keep going more and more expensive. That kind of stuff. I'm certainly not willing to buy a new bed at this point because I can't afford it. That kind of stuff. I just feel like I'm chasing after something that's not helping that much. (pause) Maybe I take it more negatively than other people do in terms of that, but I hate having things sit around the house. I don't want to throw them away. I often try to sell things and things like that.
[40:02.1]
But it's just like one of those things where I hate having reminders of something that didn't work out the way they should. And that being said, I have some things that are exceptionally good quality that I've kept forever. Long story short, Dave and I were discussing the fact I have a pen I bought back when I was in high school that I did not know sells new for $800 now. He's like this and that and I'm like "Yeah, not that many people use fountain pens but I do. I know how to take care of it and I do use it. I don't use it a lot, but I do use it." But I've been very diligent, and I like to buy things that last for a very long time. So I get very frustrated when they don't, and I'm unwilling to take a gamble on something that might not.
THERAPIST: Sure.
CLIENT: That's just sort of a—- it's exhausting to have to have that anxiety about it. I don't like being that anxious.
[41:04.7]
And I think that if things were not as bad as they are, I think I wouldn't be this anxious. I think I could be more lighthearted about it. I mean, I have been in the past.
THERAPIST: Sure. You are totally expectedly at the end of your rope.
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: How could you not be? You know, a lot of stresses but especially the pain and the side effects from the treatment.
CLIENT: Yeah. So I'm trying to make things better. Sometimes it does, sometimes it doesn't. (pause) It's just—- (pause) I'm not looking for happiness necessarily in life. I'm just looking for freedom from exhausting misery.
[42:06.7]
I don't have that high expectations. I just want a break. Unfortunately my standards are much higher than most people, so—- (pause) I guess it's—- (pause) I've always had unrealistic expectations, I think, about things. But it's getting more so now. 
At one point at work, we were discussing committing to certain things in life and what if your taste changes, and I mentioned I'm still wearing the shoes right now—- I'm wearing these loafers that I bought in high school. I mean, I don't wear them all the time. They were like "Really? They look like they're new." I'm like "Yeah, try to buy loafers now that last that long." That kind of thing. (phone ringing) Pardon me for just a minute. I have no idea who that is.
[43:12.3]
THERAPIST: We should probably finish up.
CLIENT: Yeah. So that's pretty much the broad brushstrokes, that kind of thing.
THERAPIST: Yeah. 
CLIENT: But I guess I'm going to be back in on Tuesday. Alright, I will see you then.
THERAPIST: Okay. I hope you feel better.
CLIENT: Thanks. I think that honestly just getting some rest tomorrow will do so.
THERAPIST: Yeah.
CLIENT: I will try to make myself go out because I've got a bunch of big things that I could do, so we'll see.
THERAPIST: Take care.
END TRANSCRIPT
