TRANSCRIPT OF AUDIO FILE:
______________________________________________________________________________
BEGIN TRANSCRIPT:
THERAPIST: I hope your family is okay.
CLIENT: They are okay. Thanks for asking. They are shaken up and (pause) like eight trees in the yard fell, but none of them fell on the house. And they kept power, which is awesome. But their whole life is, like, totally upside down-everyone home from school and work and Halloween was postponed.
THERAPIST: Wow.
CLIENT: By Governor Christie, which is pretty impressive. And my brother is hosting a bunch of friends who don't have power and is walking two miles to work. 
THERAPIST: Um hm. 
CLIENT: He is also well. Yes.
THERAPIST: Glad they are okay. (Pause)
CLIENT: Me, too. (Pause) The storm day was really fun for us. We (pause) my heart was sort of like somewhere else, like at home, but between every time we talked on the phone and made sure everyone was okay, we went back to baking and cooking and watching the Weather Channel online for like nine hours. It was so cool. And taking a walk outside and (pause) it was a really nice end to a wonderful weekend that I had started out being really anxious about [inaudible [00:02:21] because I decided to switch experiments. So I am cutting myself off from the inconclusive negative data experiment.
THERAPIST: This is-I forget his name. It is somebody who has advised to take a month off or some time. [00:02:45]
CLIENT: Thomas [inaudible [00:02:47], yes. Yes, so I am going to do that. I am going to take a month off. I have a couple of really exciting, as I talked about last week, sort of cutting-edge, new, next generation genome sequencing based projects that I am the only one who knows enough about the technology and has gotten trained, so I have spent the last week ordering supplies and reading a bunch about the new technology. Today I started step one of like 100. 
So I made the decision on Friday to just really go cold turkey, like not finish anything, not (pause) not like, "Oh, let's look and see if there is anything quick that I could do to sort of fill some major holes. No more. So that felt great and it continues to feel great, but it left me with a big stretch of time when I wasn't really actively doing something that was going to really soon produce data. So sort of switching from setting something up that in three hours is going to be ready and then the next day-you sort of get into this really addictive cycle of keeping busy even when it is sort of painful and it is not really leading anywhere good scientifically. So that was the old, inconclusive set of experiments.
THERAPIST: Right. You sort of sound like you are busy filling pipelines as you are waiting for-
CLIENT: Yes. You are sort of busy not really accomplishing much. But it is the mental state, I think, that is-that can be deceptively satisfying. [0:05:05]
THERAPIST: I see. You feel like you are doing a lot and being productive.
CLIENT: Yes.
THERAPIST: Okay.
CLIENT: So now-so we have the retreat and then-so I didn't do any lab work then, and then the Friday I didn't do any lab work and sort of thought about how I was going to start this next set of experiments. And then the weekend came and I haven't done a weekend at home without going to the lab in a long time. Either we are-we travel quite often, so it is not like I have been to the lab every weekend for three years. It is more like whenever we are home, I take advantage of that. So this weekend without-really wanting not to go to the lab and wanting to take that break, I started to feel quite anxious about all the free time-or all the unstructured time with them. And I actually don't remember the feeling because it has been so wonderful and I think the feeling somehow is inaccessible to me. But I remember (pause) telling them (pause), "Hey, I am really having trouble settling down and feeling okay about this weekend. Can we make some structure?" (Pause) 
This was sort of a like a serious request that I was not interested in joking about. Jeremy thought that there were plenty of hilarious ideas that he could offer that would provide structure and also be really funny to him. So that didn't go anywhere, really. (Pause) (Sigh) But after we sort of got on the same page, he told me about his appointment with his psychologist, and how he had brought up (pause) that I have been interested in spending more time with him than the (pause) other than occurs to him naturally, or than actually he is-he is not really that interested in spending so much time together. And that came from-that is coming from a slow build of my (pause) feeling like my needs aren't being met and not really knowing what my needs are and sometimes figuring it out and communicating about it and sometimes not figuring it out and just, like, whining and crying. And then, in general, just sort of like a strong need to be (pause) really nurtured at home. That word gets thrown around a lot now and Jeremy expressed a lot of dislike for that work now because it has sort of become this thing that my mom does that he should do, but really he shouldn't do it. (Pause) Yes. So (pause) anyway we came up with some ideas and it was great and (pause) I think the deeper thing was and is still there which is there is a pretty different set of expectations and-like his and mine. And both are pretty difficult positions to change right now. And so this sort of bubbled up into a really very, very painful discussion or fight or whatever, in bed at 1:00 a.m. on Friday evening. 
THERAPIST: Oh. [00:10:10]
CLIENT: I forget what the trigger was, but (pause) I think it probably was not receiving the physical tenderness that I wanted to receive and thought that I was asking for it, but (pause) like really Jeremy didn't really think that I was asking for it. So it was partially like this sort of passive aggressive thing on my part where I was trying to snuggle or kiss Jeremy and then was sort of waiting to receive some kind of reciprocal action and I didn't get it and getting upset. (Pause) Yes, I don't think the order of how it went is that important. I am not really remembering it. It was very painful because I think it revealed how much tenderness and attention I (pause) want or need or expect or-like it is hard to tease out. And how fragile Jeremy sometimes sees me as and how irritable it makes him. And it was sort of like (pause) I want to be taken care of in these ways right now and my hope is that either I will learn to do that myself or the needs will change or they will go away, but it is really not a permanent dynamic. But the idea of being hugged when I arrive at home or like being asked how my day is and really sitting down and talking about my day and (pause)-I don't know. Jeremy asked me recently if I had had enough to eat for whatever-for some task that I was about to do and that-I remember that feeling really nice and I didn't ask him to ask me that. [00:13:25]
I have asked him explicitly, "Can you please, when I come into the door, will you please ask me how I am?" And that hasn't stuck because it is just not really who he is. Jeremy will ask me how I am when he is ready to talk. The other complication is that he really does a lot of really intense creative work at home in his music and is immersed in these music-a couple of really cool music projects. I think it is hard for him to make all the time he wants for it and so there is this constant tug. Like, I am not sure when he is really immersed and when he is not immersed and (pause) so I think poor communication on that front and I have-we have talked about it since then. I think we have a better appreciation for how that might be making the dynamic hard. [00:14:47]
(Pause) So it came up-or I brought up that I have spent a long time taking care of Jeremy in college and that made him cry. Jeremy doesn't cry. He has cried like three times since I have known him. (Pause) And he told me that it was making him feel really upset because, yes, I did take care of him for a long time in college and why can't he just return the favor? (Pause) Yes. But I think it is pretty hard for him to react to what he sees as childish needs or childish behaviors in a really tender and loving way. He gets really irritated and knows that he-that that makes it really difficult. It makes it worse for me. [00:16:27]
He gets irritated in so many different ways, including sexually, so that has been-I think this dynamic extends to all parts of life and in terms of asking for physical attention (pause). It came up that I didn't necessarily want to have sex that night, but I really, really wanted like, warmth. But I think I didn't know how to ask for one and not the other. And then it became this whole thing like it is really not a turn-on to have this crying, fragile girl and me thinking, "I wasn't really trying to be particularly attractive. I am asking for something that might be fulfilled by having sex, but might also be fulfilled by a lot of other kinds of physical interaction." [00:17:41]
So I think we-that allowed us to air a lot of things that maybe haven't been obvious and then Jeremy has made an incredible effort to just be a bit more balanced and listen without becoming irritated right away. We spent almost the entire weekend playing-eating out and watching things and doing little projects around the house. I did go out for the afternoon on Sunday, which was part of the structure that I was resisting, which is like, I have a need to see other people other than Jeremy if it is longer than 24 hours. And my mom brought this up to me where she is like-she asked me if I wanted to come home because I sounded like all the free time was not suiting me well and maybe I wanted to come home. I was like, "No! I have to make it work. I can't come home. I have to stay here." And she called me-it came up that I might want to go to visit Brenda [ph [00:19:06] but that-also I shouldn't do that and that I should really work on being able to be in my apartment for a whole weekend. [00:19:17]
Really that is-I was so committed to it and she called back and she was like, "This is done. You should realize that you are an extrovert and you really need people a lot. No one is giving you an award for staying home." I reacted to that well and made a plan to go out. By the time I left, I really didn't feel the need to leave. I had a great time there, but it was almost as if-
THERAPIST: Like you are ready to come home, maybe?
CLIENT: Yes. I didn't feel like, "Oh, thank goodness I am going out to see my friend somewhere else." It was like I had made the plan, the structure was there, and it allowed me to sort of relax and dig in in the way that ideally I would be able to do without all the brouhaha. (Pause) [00:20:36]
THERAPIST: Do you know what the antsiness comes from? 
CLIENT: No. I haven't (pause) I haven't quite experienced it in this flavor before-like before I left-five, six months. I have always been-I have always had a big need for stimulation and diversity. I think that has been true for my whole life. But I have been very good at providing it for myself and-
THERAPIST: Otherwise [inaudible [00:21:21]
CLIENT: And not feeling any doubt in my ability to do that. It is just-I mean I lived, like for two years I lived with Matt and Jeremy and a fourth person. Matt and Jeremy have since become really great friends, but they were strangers at the beginning of my graduate school. I don't remember those two years being difficult at all. And it seems like this-these sorts of fears or feelings-a situation like that would be ripe for these things to come up. Because really, I didn't have anybody that I felt like was my family. But then, again, I either left or had Jeremy visit every two weeks for two years. And when that structure was disrupted, it was quite difficult. So it was almost as if I was able to pace myself or emotionally either wall off or just have it be satisfying enough that there was going to be this plan-really satisfying family-related plan every so often. [00:23:00]
But I loved my time with Matt and Jeremy and I miss them. I think I miss being a part of a home dynamic that is more than two people. (Pause) In a sense, my family and Jeremy were two pillars then and they were sort of equal. I mean, I talked to Jeremy a lot more than I did my family, like I saw them once a month and I would see Jeremy twice a month. Those were really clear supports and then the rest of the time was to have fun. Also my lab work and just my whole attitude about graduate school is so different. I was not particularly engaged. I was really loving all the freedom and did not spend that much time in lab. And that is pretty different now. [00:24:45]
THERAPIST: Hm... (Pause) Yes, I guess I am not sure how to put it together. (Pause) 
CLIENT: I think I feel lonely at home. (Pause) Or at least I have a fear of feeling lonely. It came up that night on Friday that Jeremy is so happy just to sort of have me around and be existing in parallel. 
THERAPIST: Um hm. [00:26:19]
CLIENT: And at least right now, that is quite lonely for me.
THERAPIST: I see.
CLIENT: [Interposing]
THERAPIST: Go ahead.
CLIENT: I think it is-I think it is complex and I think it is linked to being fulfilled or not fulfilled in other parts of my life. Actually when I-yesterday when I started the process of the new experiment and had it in my head a lot, I felt a pretty clear shift in my ability to be at home without needing-
THERAPIST: Yes, I was thinking after you were lonely that it sounds as though being kind of sort of tied into something at work kind of helps.
CLIENT: Yes.
THERAPIST: Or knowing you'll be out or away—
CLIENT: Right.
THERAPIST: —helps. Like, I guess [inaudible [00:27:24] having other support. 
CLIENT: Um hm. 
THERAPIST: Putting it this way-but I would guess it is not an easy thing to say or to look at, feeling lonely at home.
CLIENT: Yes. For some reason the idea of sitting with it is very scary. (Pause) I don't know if actually sitting with the feelings is actually as scary as the anticipation of, "Oh my God, there is this whole weekend coming up." Like I definitely felt the most-the strongest feelings about anything before the weekend started.
THERAPIST: I am also imaging that also, like-thinking about, like, having [inaudible [00:28:49] as far as I can tell, being really excited to come home together with Jeremy and he sort of-I guess, as you've been talking about, like, shift-continue kind of shifting your relationship center of gravity to your home with Jeremy. I would think in that light it is (pause) upsetting to talk and think about (pause) actually feeling kind of lonely at home with Jeremy.
CLIENT: Yes, I think it is pretty upsetting. I mean, given the role that home has played.
THERAPIST: Yes. [00:29:41]
CLIENT: When I was growing up, I remember often whining about being bored and like, "Will you do this with me?" and "This is so boring. I really want to go out and do blah." So that instinct doesn't feel new. But (pause) and I don't particularly like that instinct. (Pause) I think it is sort of changing or passing with time. And with meditation, too. Meditation has allowed me to (pause)-don't know-be a bit more still. So that part-some of it doesn't feel new, but some of it does feel like, "Is this enough?" [00:30:53]
THERAPIST: We should stop for now. We will talk later, okay?
CLIENT: Okay.
END TRANSCRIPT
