<font size="4"><b>The Forty-Second Day</b></font>

When the Monday cleaning was over I began to think about
packing. That was one characteristic the hospital hadn't
changed. Throughout my adult years, whenever I went on a
trip, I prepared days in advance. When I left The Farm to
go to Grand Rapids as a cub reporter, I packed, unpacked,
and re-packed a steamer trunk my mother had given me. I
did it for two weeks, and when I finally left, I was in such a
state that my mother had to pack it all over again.


In the New York days, whenever I was sent on an out-of-town
assignment, I arrived at LaGuardia Airport or Grand
Central station at least an hour ahead of time. My city editor
once bellowed at me because I was fifteen minutes late arriving
at the office, and everyone in the place laughed at
him. It was the first time I had been late in fifteen years.


The habit remained with me on D-3. I asked Miss Brown
if she would unlock my room so I could sort things out. And,
please, could I have my bags?


"Why, you're not going for several days," said Miss Brown.
"And you haven't even been signed out. As for your bags,
you have to go to Storage for them, and you have to have an
order to get them."

[p. <i>290</i>]

"Well, could I have my car keys? I'd like to see if the
darned thing will start. It's been standing a long time, you
know."


"I don't think you'd better have the keys. Why don't you
get the garage key and just look the car over? Might make
you feel better."


"I feel all right. I don't want a last-minute rush, that's all."


Miss Brown smiled patiently. "You'll have plenty of time.
Now run along and look at your old car."


"It's new."


"Well, look at it, anyway." She considered. "If you want
to take some of your clothes over to the car, that's all right."


Larry, standing nearby, begged to go along. Miss Brown
nodded. "Then maybe I can get some work done," she said.


Larry and I collected the soiled linen in my room and tied
it in a bundle. Then I got a spare suit from the Clothes
Room, wrapped half a dozen shirts and some ties in a newspaper,
and debated whether to take along socks and handkerchiefs,
too.


"I'm kind of short on socks," I said. "Better leave 'em
here."


Larry was as excited as though <i>he</i> were going away. We
marched back to the office and I asked for the garage key.


"That's at Center," Miss Brown said. She told me which
office the key was in, but suggested that I see Dr. Sheets first.


"Shouldn't I have my fingerprints taken, too? And put up
bond?"


"Scram!" said Miss Brown, startling both of us. But she
laughed as she let us out. "You two look like old-clothes
men," she said.


A mild rain was falling as we left Receiving. I found it
hard to believe. Snow, sleetand now rain. We'll probably

[p. <i>291</i>]

I settled Larry in a chair in the main hallway of Center,
piled my belongings on him (he <i>did</i> look like an old-clothes
man then), and went into Dr. Sheets' office. When I asked
about the garage key, he understood at once.


"Getting a little itchy? Natural. Of course you may have
the key. Better not take the car out, though. Wait until the
day before you leave, say."


"No chance of taking it out, Doctor. Miss Brown has the
car keysand she's hanging on to them."


"Sensible person, Miss Brown," he said, smiling.


"A grand person. They're all that way on D-3."


We talked about the hospital in general and D-3 in particular;
then Dr. Sheets took me to the office where the garage
keys were kept. A woman secretary who had charge of
them was a little anxious.


"You'll return the key as soon as you're finished?" she
asked.


"I promise."


Larry and I went through Center, down some stairs, and
through the corridor that led by the canteen. I looked in, but
Suzy wasn't there. Lil was, however, and promptly demanded,
"What's up? Ain't leaving already, are you?"


I told her what was up, and she asked if she could come,
too.


"Of course. Make a party of it."


We splashed through the puddles already forming on the
icy paths, crossed the little bridge and, coming up to my garage,
No.8, were met by Suzy.

[p. <i>292</i>]

"Surprise!" she greeted us.


I said, "Don't tell me that you knew all the time we were
coming here."


"No, I'm not mind-reading today. I wanted to see the car,
and I thought the rain would clean the windowsso here
I am."


"Just in time," I said, "for the unveiling."


We got the padlock open, kicked away the snow and ice,
and opened the doors.


"Ladies and gentleman," I began. Then I peered inside.
"Good God, that's not my car!"


But it was, because the license plate said so. I never would
have recognized it otherwise. It was streaked with dirt, all the
chrome was rusty, and the windows were as pock-marked as
those of a Bowery saloon.


Lil was the first to recover. "It's nothing," she said. "You
picked up all that stuff driving up here."


"But it was covered with snow when I got here."


"Yeah, but all that sand and gravel was underneath. And
that stuff they put on slippery roadsthat's what's taken the
shine off the chrome. Hell, a little wash job and she'll be
pretty again."


I took Lil's word for it, but it looked like a hopeless task
to me. We stowed my clothes away, and then I went through
a big cardboard container in the trunk. I found fistsful of
sticks of chewing gum, but had no memory of putting them
there. We divided the gum, also more fistsful of soft lead
pencils, absent-mindedly taken home from the office in various
pockets. Larry sputtered over a sheaf of typewriter paper,
and I gave it to him. There were some paper-back mystery
books which Lil happily clutched to her ample bosom.


"It's your turn, Suzy. Take your pick."

[p. <i>293</i>]

She was reluctant even to look into the container, but when
I came up from the bottom of it with a face towel, she exclaimed,
"Oh, I'd like that! I'd like a towel for myself."


I found another one, but she insisted that it go to Lil. Then
I found a package of chocolate bars, and we fell to munching.
But I was perplexed; I remembered putting the chocolate bars
into the container, but I had no idea where the face towels
came from. You <i>must</i> have been in a state, I thought. What
other surprises are in here? There were no more. But chewing
gum and face towels....


"Let's take a ride," said Lil.


"Can't. I don't get the keys until the day before I leave."


"Hell, let's pretend to take a ride."


So we got into the car. Larry scrambled into the front seat
with me. I started to protest, but Suzy shushed me and got
into the back with Lil.


"Let her rip!" yelled Lil. "Give her the gas! Give her
what else do you give her?"


"It's customary to turn on the ignition, but that's out. We'll
just give her the gas. Here we go!"


We leaned back and pretended. "Hell of a draft back here,"
said Lil. "Close your window."


Larry reached over and timidly tugged at the steering
wheel. His hand slipped and landed on the horn button; he
jumped, bumping his head against the top, but he was entranced.
He pressed one finger on the button and kept it there
until I said, "Gently, Larry; we don't want the fire department
swooping down on us."


I could see Suzy in the mirror. She was mildly interested
in the chocolate bar, but one hand caressed the face towel. I
felt a wave of tenderness for the three of them. And then a
wave of hopelessness, for I could do nothing for them. Nothing

[p. <i>294</i>]

Suzy must have guessed my thoughts. She said, still pretending
but with a shade of anxiety in her voice, "If you'll
please let me out at the next corner.... It's nearly dinner
time."


We locked the car and the garage door, and went out into
the slanting rain.


Ten of us went to the movies in the auditorium. Five were
habituals; they went every Monday night. But the other five,
including myself, joined them as a gesture. It seemed almost
indecent to sit in the Day Room on New Year's Eve.


We saw a Donald Duck cartoon and a terrible war picture
in which the hero was in danger, for thirty minutes, of being
blown up in a powder magazine. The film broke three or four
times, but there was no clapping of hands; there was no
stamping of feet. Again, that curious restraint among people
presumed to be unrestrained.


We were back on D-3 and in bed at 9:05. Len peered
into my room a few minutes later.


"Some cheese and crackers? Art's making coffee."


"No thanks. I'm exhausted. Can't take this night life."


In bed at 9:05 on New Year's Eve! No one ever will believe
it, I said, and went to sleep.

