Transcript of Audio File:
______________________________________________________________________________
BEGIN TRANSCRIPT:
THERAPIST: Come on in.
CLIENT: All right. How are you?
THERAPIST: Good, thank you.
CLIENT: Well, this week has kind of been hectic. My grandma is not doing well. And this is my dad's mom because - my only grandparent left. And just a lot of things are going on. I don't know if I mentioned before about how my cousin was living in my grandmother's house?
THERAPIST: Uh-huh. [01:00]
CLIENT: And it's actually caused a lot of emotional problems, a lot of fighting going on in the family over just stuff. Because my aunt and my uncle, my dad's sister and her husband, they are just not telling people what's going on. Like my grandmother had a lot of valuable stuff. And they - and nobody knows where it is. And my cousin, my dad's brother's daughter, asked for something out of the house that just reminded her of her dad because her dad really liked it. And she asked if she could have it. And my dad sister's husband...my aunt and uncle said, "No, we're taking everything." So we're gut out that he said that to my cousin and really hurt my cousin. She broke down crying because it was...it's all about her father and the memory of her father. And something like that just reminded her of her father and made a smile on her face.
So my dad ended up confronting them and seeing what was going on. And my uncle calls up my cousin, my dad's sister's husband, calls my cousin and says, "You misinterpreted what I said." Because he had already been lashed out. And she said, "No, I didn't. I know exactly what you said. You told me, 'No, I couldn't have it. And you were taking everything.'" So it - to me emotions are riding high. I think now that my grandmother is not doing so well, because of the neglect that she gave to my siblings and my dad's brother's siblings, we're all lashing out. And it's to the point where I just see this family feud just turning very chaotic, turning very out of control.
We already have issues with...my cousin is getting married. My dad's sister's son is getting married. And I've already made it plain and clear that I'm not going to the wedding. I want nothing to do with them. I don't - and it's as simple as that. Just because of the stuff that they've done to my dad, knowing what they've done to my dad and to my family and how they hurt my family. I just can't do it anymore. And I'm kind of on edge. I'm kind of to the point where I'm done keeping my mouth closed. I'm standing up for myself. I'm standing up for what I believe in.
And I feel bad for my dad having to answer all the questions at the wedding why I'm not there, but it's to the point now where I'm going to put him in that awkward spot. And when people ask me why I didn't go, I'm just going to tell them because I don't care for him. I never had a relationship with them growing up. I don't know who they are. I don't consider them part of my family even though I'm related to them by blood.
And that's the hardest part is because after my aunt and her husband stole $30,000 from my dad, I don't think I can ever look at my cousins and my aunt and my uncle the same way ever again. Just because of the hurt that they did and what they're doing. And I feel bad for dad, but I can't keep my mouth shut anymore. That was like my final straw. And he's just, "Okay, you really did this. Now the guns are out." Now I'm - you know what, and I - and like we talked about last week, I'm getting the anger back. I'm getting the point where I'm going to tell all. Like any other family member, I'm not socializing in any events that they're there. And if I'm there, I'm going to pretend that they're not there. I'm going to walk by them. I'm not going to do anything. If anyone asks, "What are you going to say to them?" I'm going to tell them, "Well, this is what they did. Did you know this?" Do you know why we don't speak to them?"
I'm tired of keeping my mouth shut. I'm tired of being walked all over because of my grandmother. The only reason why there's kind of some peace is my grandmother is still alive. But it's like we said, the sooner the day my grandmother dies, I'll never associate with them again.
I mean, I had this conversation with my girlfriend and my mom the other night. If my dad...anything happened to my dad, I don't think I'd speak to them again. If my aunt died, if my uncle died, I don't think I'd go to the funeral. I mean, it's just - that's how angry I am towards them about how they could do that to your own flesh and blood. Your brother, you steal money from him and you allow it to happen. Your mother, you steal money from her and you allow it to happen. I mean, to me, I don't care about my grandmother. I don't care about my aunt. To me, unfortunately, I don't consider them a part of my life. And it's the hardest thing ever is to push a grandparent away and a family member away. When...from growing up, they pushed me away. They never wanted anything to do with me. They never wanted to be involved in my life.
And the more and more I get older, the more and more I want nothing to do with them. The more and more I find out what they're doing to my family, what they're doing to my dad, irritates me even more. It's just - it's to the point where I think everybody, my siblings and my dad's brother's children, are at the point where it could get physical. It could get really ugly legally.
THERAPIST: Physical how? [06:53]
CLIENT: Just because there's a lot of stuff being said. A lot of stuff is coming out to the point where - my uncle talks down to people. And my cousin talks down to people. My cousin actually takes shots at my sister one night. And I kept my mouth shut, but I vowed never again if I ever let him speak to my sister like that again, I will grab his fucking throat.
THERAPIST: Were they -
CLIENT: Excuse me.
THERAPIST: Were they in your house? How did you - [07:32]
CLIENT: No. This was just in previous time, in previous encounters with them. They just - my uncle tries to dictate what goes on. He tries to have the final say, he's very sneaky. He actually took a bunch of valuables from my grandmother's house, and told my dad that he's keeping them for safekeeping. But my aunt told my dad that nobody wanted them. So now there's two conflicting stories right there. And we think they're stealing money. And it's just - it -
THERAPIST: From your grandmother?
CLIENT: From my grandmother, from my dad.
THERAPIST: How are you - how is he stealing from your dad?
CLIENT: Well, because my dad had a joint account with my grandmother. [08:17]
THERAPIST: Why?
CLIENT: The $30,000 that was there. It was just a joint account they had that was for her funeral. And last year when my grandmother was supposedly on her death bed and they talked about it, my dad said use that money for the funeral because he had already saved it away. And they go, "Well, there's no money in it." And he had no idea. Because if my grandmother had past away, he would have went to that account looking for that money to pay for her funeral and it was gone.
THERAPIST: How did the money get out? [08:50]
CLIENT: It's in my dad and my grandmother's name, but my aunt controls all my grandmother's accounts. She has access to all the accounts with the checks and paying the bills and stuff like that.
THERAPIST: And your dad couldn't get your grandmother to sign off on just keeping it in his name?
CLIENT: No.
THERAPIST: Why, didn't she want to do it?
CLIENT: I don't know. I don't know what was going on with that. It's just the way that my dad does things. It's just - it was kind of like an emergency fund where it's been there for 25 years just to have there. Neither one of them touched it, but it was just extra money in case they needed it. And they spent all my grandmother's money from her social security, to her pension, to everything that was coming in. They spent every nickel and dime of it.
THERAPIST: Do you know where they spent it? [09:44]
CLIENT: They spent it paying for my cousin to live at that house. Because when my grandmother came over, she had her checkbook. And my dad photocopied all the checks that were written and everything. And it was going towards the taxes on the house, the utilities for the house, the mortgage for the house, everything for the house. When the furnace went, they used her money to pay for the furnace, not their own when my cousin has been living in it. We wouldn't have a problem with any of this stuff. None of these bills would've racked up if no one was living in the house.
THERAPIST: Yeah, I guess I don't really understand your argument because the house needs to be maintained. So is it your idea that the house just should have been sold?
CLIENT: The house should have been sold. [10:36]
THERAPIST: I see.
CLIENT: Because now we lost value on the house because my cousin has completely destroyed it. There was mold. Now he smokes in the house. The house needs some serious updating. And all in all in the beginning when we first talked about it, we were going to sell it. And they didn't want to sell it. And then my cousin moved into it and has been living there rent free for four years. And just every time something goes wrong with the house, they look to my grandmother to pay for it or for my father to pay for it. When they're - he's not there using the stuff.
THERAPIST: So your dad own - who owns the house?
CLIENT: It's in my grandmother's name. But until my grandmother passes away -
THERAPIST: Is your grandmother not cognitively with it?
CLIENT: No.
THERAPIST: So she doesn't know what's going on?
CLIENT: No. But we can't get my aunt to say that. Because my aunt is in charge of everything like -
THERAPIST: But how did that happen? [11:43]
CLIENT: Because my grandmother 10, 15 years ago was really ill. I want to say 10 years ago. It was really - she wasn't - she couldn't live alone anymore, she was having accidents. And instead, we talked about putting her in a home, but she didn't want to go to a home. She said she wanted to live with Trish, which is her daughter, my aunt. And we said fine. So she moved out and went to live with her. And then once she got everything like she moved out, my aunt has been in control of her paying her checkbook and her finances and all that stuff.
THERAPIST: So your grandmother - that's what your grandmother wanted?
CLIENT: That's what my grandmother wanted, yes. And now, it's to the point where my - they've completely drained my grandmother. And now my grandmother is a burden on them, and they can't wait to get rid of her. Apparently, I guess my grandmother is going into a nursing home 10 years later when we wanted to put her in 10 years ago.
THERAPIST: Did your dad want her to move in with you guys? [12:52]
CLIENT: My dad was up for moving her into a nursing home. At the time, my mother still - my mother and my grandmother never got along. You know the hurtful things my grandmother said to my mother, my mother said, "Absolutely not, she's not living here." And then we talked about...they talked about it 10 years ago about putting her into a nursing home. But my Aunt Trish and my uncle that was alive at the time, didn't want that. So they just said, okay, go live with my Aunt Trish. And when she moved out, we wanted to sell the house. And the whole thing was we'd sell the house and use that money to put her in the nursing home, but nobody wanted it. Well, my dad wanted it, but my uncle and my aunt didn't want it at the time.
THERAPIST: But your grandmother didn't want it? [13:46]
CLIENT: No, she didn't, but she couldn't live alone anymore.
THERAPIST: Yeah. I mean, I guess I feel like you have a very ungenerous perspective. I mean, I think there's a lot of ways to interpret the facts. You're interpreting the fact in the most sort of kind of like negative way. I mean, your aunt took care of your grandmother for 10 years because your grandmother didn't want to be put in a nursing home. That's a very nice thing to do. [14:11]
CLIENT: But the things that I didn't mention is my aunt lived in Michigan for a while, she only came up on the summers. And before my grandmother got sick, was of age...of older age, it was me and my brothers that were maintaining that house. We'd do all the landscaping. We'd go over there, we'd cut shrubs. We maintained the pool. We'd fix things that needed to be fixed. We were always the ones doing all the manual labor and stuff like that. If it snowed, we'd go over there. In a snow storm in a blizzard, we'd walk over with our snow blower and clean the driveway out. And we did this for...since I was a little kid until my aunt moved back here. She was in Michigan for, oh 15, 16 years, and then they moved back here. And when -
THERAPIST: (Beeping) I'm sorry about that.
CLIENT: That's all right. When my grandmother finally was not well enough to move in, they had only been here for three years. So there was a time where my dad took care of my mother...my grandmother for a long period of time. And it's just like, well, all of a sudden, they come in and they have her for 10 years or whatever it is. And now all of a sudden, they forget about what I did for her all those years.
THERAPIST: So what would you like? [15:37]
CLIENT: What would I like?
THERAPIST: Yeah, what do you - because it sounds like they're taking something away. What do you - what do you feel you're not getting that you deserve?
CLIENT: I just want them to give us the right that we deserve.
THERAPIST: Which is?
CLIENT: Stop stealing. Stop stealing. Stop being manipulative. I mean, I just don't like the fact that they're taking advantage of my dad. And my dad is finally starting to fight back. Which I - irritated me until now when he's finally taking a stand.
THERAPIST: Do you feel it was generous of them to take care of your grandmother for 10 years?
CLIENT: Oh, because they said straight up they don't want her.
THERAPIST: For 10 years?
CLIENT: For last five years, they don't want her. My aunt thinks my grandmother is a burden on her.
THERAPIST: You don't think she is?
CLIENT: Oh, I think she is because my grandmother is very demanding.
THERAPIST: But again, it doesn't seem like you think that's a generous act, you're just suspicious.
CLIENT: It's not a generous act. I know in my heart it's not generous. I did - I know in my heart my aunt does not want her.
THERAPIST: Well, it sounds like it.
CLIENT: There is a reason why -
THERAPIST: Why did she ever move in to begin with because you think she wanted to steal from your grandmother? [16:57]
CLIENT: I don't think she wanted to steal. I just think she just didn't have a choice. Because my dad didn't want her, and my dad's brother said no way.
THERAPIST: So then you put her in a nursing home.
CLIENT: But they didn't want to sell the house to put her in the nursing home. That's the problem. The deal was done. The solution was made, sell the house, take the money and use it towards my grandmother living in a nursing home. Well, at the time, my dad's brother had filed for bankruptcy, was broke. And my dad's sister didn't want to do it. Because it would have been a huge fight, nobody wanted to do it. Because they said my grandmother wanted her house. She hasn't lived there in 10 years, why the hell do we still have the house? And it just got frustrating to me because my dad never said anything. He never pushed the issue. He never took the initiative to just do it. The solution was there.
THERAPIST: Why do you think your aunt didn't want to sell it if she gets some money too?
CLIENT: I don't know. I don't - because I didn't think she'd think my grandmother would be such a pain in the ass as she is. Because I mean, not for nothing my grandmother's house has deteriorated in the last couple years even more.
THERAPIST: So did your aunt think that she'd eventually move back into her own home? [18:21]
CLIENT: I think my aunt thought my grandmother would have already been dead by now to be honest.
THERAPIST: So I guess what incentive does she have to have the house? I don't understand that. Why does that benefit your aunt?
CLIENT: She doesn't. She's the one that wanted to sell it. It's my - it's her husband that didn't want to sell it.
THERAPIST: I see.
CLIENT: And I don't know why. Because they want the most value out of it or for some reason. I don't know. In my mind, it's a monetary value. And I don't know -
THERAPIST: Yeah, I mean, I guess it's your (inaudible at 18:41) you could be right, but you're just convinced, "They're evil, I know they're evil, they're definitely evil."
CLIENT: Well, they're not -
THERAPIST: Or some version (inaudible at 18:58)?
CLIENT: They are manipulative. They're not evil, they're manipulative. And I've seen them turn people on me since I was five years old. So every encounter that I've had with them has been a negative encounter.
THERAPIST: Well, what do you think it means to just step out of this conflict? Let them do whatever they want.
CLIENT: Oh, that's - and that's what I'm trying to do. And I try to get my mother to get out of it because my mother is very emotional. And she does have a lot of anger as well.
THERAPIST: Well, but stepping out of it would have nothing to do with what you get other people to do. [19:31]
CLIENT: No I agree. That's why I kind of just wanted to shut them completely out of my life. And it's come to a point where I have to do that now. I'm not biting my tongue anymore, I'm not doing anything. I'm not interacting with them anymore. It's to the point where I gave them chances to do stuff. And the more and more I find out about what they're doing, what they did, how they hurt my dad and how my dad was blindsided, it really ticks me off. And it's to the point where you get that rage.
THERAPIST: (Beeping) sorry.
CLIENT: That's all right.
THERAPIST: (inaudible at 20:10) okay.
CLIENT: It's to the point now where I feel like I'm getting that rage again. And just want to -
THERAPIST: Well, that's what I know. When I said - I didn't mean shut them off, I mean, I know this sound -
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: - this may sound like so far away from where you are right now -
CLIENT: Uh-huh.
THERAPIST: - but it's like, who cares? They could be mean, manipulative, who cares? There's nothing you're going to be able to do about it.
CLIENT: No. No, I agree. And that's kind of like...that's the approach that I had is I don't want nothing to do with it. I don't even want to put myself in the situations with it. I don't care about it. But when I'm in a household when that's all they talk about, it's frustrating.
THERAPIST: Do you think if you had your own family, you'd feel a little bit more distant from all this other family drama? [20:56]
CLIENT: If I had my own family, I know for one thing I don't think I would let my children see my grandmother. I don't think I'd let them see my aunt. I wouldn't invite them. I had this conversation with my mother and my girlfriend the other day. And I told her I was sorry, but my feeling is I kind of hope my grandmother dies before I get married. Because I don't want to invite my Aunt Trish, I don't want to invite any of them.
But I know that'll be heartbreaking to my dad, but that's just how I feel. But that is how I feel. Because the hardest part to me is to not to invite your grandmother. But it's to the point where I don't want to invite her. I don't want her there. I don't want her to see me happy. I don't want her to see me have a family and be proud of my family because I never was shown that. She will never be proud of me, she'll never be happy for me. And it sounds weird, but that's how I feel because that's how I was treated growing up. That's how every encounter I've had with my grandmother has been. And I've been neglected from her. And it's to the point where I've moved on from it, but I keep getting her forced on me. And I don't like it. [22:16]
THERAPIST: Forced on you by who?
CLIENT: By my dad.
THERAPIST: So are you angry at him too?
CLIENT: I'm angry at the fact that it's my life, this is what I want. And just knowing all the garbage that's gone on really irritates me. And I'm not going to let it drag out anymore. I'm sick and tired of it. I want to just cut the cord from it and move on. And every time I feel like I want to move on, I can't because someone is there saying, "Well, you can't." And to me that frustrates me and then I start to get the rage again and I get pissed off. And it's to the point where I just - and this is, I mean, this is conversation I've had with my girlfriend is, I feel bad getting married because I know the guest list is going to be a disaster. Because there's so many people that I could care less about that my father cares for that it's going to be a problem. [23:23]
THERAPIST: So you feel in conflict with him right now?
CLIENT: Uh-huh.
THERAPIST: Because if it were up to you, you could just not invite these people and that would be that?
CLIENT: Uh-huh. And there's another thing where I get stressed about, money. Because he's going to want to put in money into this wedding, and he's going to want to put on a party, a big one because that's what my dad likes to do. But my also problem is if he does that then he gets a say. And that's kind of the reason why I'm hesitant about all this stuff is because I don't want to give my dad that leverage. I know it sucks, but I don't want to give him that leverage. [24:03]
THERAPIST: Well, you're describing feeling kind of like helplessly dependent on people. Like you're -
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: - dependent on them, but you have no...it's kind of desperately dependent, you have no other options.
CLIENT: Well, I mean, I have an option to get away, but I can't.
THERAPIST: Well, then it's not an option (Laughter).
CLIENT: Exactly (Laughter).
THERAPIST: An option is something you can actually do -
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: - not something you couldn't do. [24:23]
CLIENT: I mean, it's...I guess I could do it, but I couldn't. I mean, there's just an - I do have a lot of feelings towards issues, and I do have a lot of feelings towards my family. But completely shutting my immediate family off is not an option. I don't think I could do it. Anybody else, yes. Anybody else, yes. And I mean, and that's what's frustrating is I can shut off my cousins, I can shut off my aunt, I can shut off them. But for some reason, I can't shut off my mom, my dad, my brothers, my sister or my girlfriend. I can't shut them off. Anybody else, I would have no problem shutting off and acting like they were dead.
And I guess that's where it comes in where the dependencies on them. Just because I do depend on them a lot. And I don't know why. I don't know why. And it is funny because I do think to the fact where if I did have a family of my own, is I think I'd be very protective of them. I don't know if I would let...be around as much. I don't know if I would want to put them into this environment that I've been put in. I'm just...I'm very protective of stuff like that. It's a tough situation that I'm in where...I mean, like we talked about a couple weeks ago about how weak people I like to defend them. Well, that's kind of like how it is with my family. It's just like, I feel my family is weak, but when I try to defend them I get, "What are you doing? It's not - you're not supposed to do that." But when my instincts and my heart tells me, "No, you need to do this, you need to protect them." It's frustrating. Because sometimes when I do do it, I get kicked. When I don't do it, I feel bad. Excuse me. So there's just a juggling act where I'm just really confused on what I need to be doing. And what I should do and what I shouldn't do.
And then the best thing that I've thought of is again is doing...my reactionary thinking is just react and let things happen. But I don't want to be that person anymore. So that's the toughest part is because back in the day I just (snaps fingers) snap, do what I had to do and deal with the consequences later. [27:03]
THERAPIST: In sort of being so involved, what are you hoping to accomplish?
CLIENT: So involved or so not involved?
THERAPIST: Well, just - I mean, you care, you very much care.
CLIENT: I do care.
THERAPIST: So in terms of doing whatever it is that you do, I mean, the fact that you care means you want something to happen -
CLIENT: Uh-huh.
THERAPIST: - or you must need to change. So I guess I'm trying to figure out what that is.
CLIENT: What I want to change ideally is for nobody to talk to them again. But I know it can't happen.
THERAPIST: And why do you want that?
CLIENT: Because of all the hurts that's gone on to my side of the family, to my siblings, to my mom, to my dad, to my dad's brother's kids.
THERAPIST: Yeah. I mean, I'm guess I'm wondering maybe your family doesn't feel as hurt as you do? [28:00]
CLIENT: Oh, they're starting to. My cousin came over Monday night. And he came over at nine o'clock, and he didn't leave to one o'clock because he was really upset. Because my uncle talked to my cousin, which was his sister, said she couldn't have the piece that resembled their dad. And he got really pissed off. And then the way my aunt...my aunt's son, my dad's sister's son, just walks around and talks to everybody disrespectfully like he's privileged and all this stuff. My dad's sister's son, who is living in the house, is on probation for seven years because he got pulled over in a truck with 20 pounds of cocaine in it. And his older brother is a cop. His older brother put his name on the fence to help his brother. So he owes a lot of people favors.
So I guess in reality is, is he was supposed to find his own place. And what they were doing was they just put him in my grandmother's house. And that's how everything really got out of control is because nobody liked the fact that a criminal was living in my grandmother's house. A criminal didn't have to pay for anything. A criminal didn't have any responsibilities. Everything this child has done since he was born, his parents or somebody got him out of it. And it's to the point now where the frustration kicks in. [29:46]
THERAPIST: Well, you allow - so he gets away with things. People get away with things all the time.
CLIENT: But the frustration is before he was stuck in that house, me and my brother asked my dad if we could buy the house and he said no.
THERAPIST: So it sounds like you're more angry at your dad than your cousin though.
CLIENT: Well, I'm just mad at everything to do with my dad's family.
THERAPIST: Well, I mean -
CLIENT: I just have a lot of anger towards all of them. It's to the point where I don't care anymore. And that's my hardest part is I don't care. I don't care for my cousins, I don't care for my aunts. I don't care for my uncle.
THERAPIST: So who do you think - I mean, it sounds like your dad...well, your dad may not just be hurting as much because he really wants, it sounds like, to keep the family together?
CLIENT: Yeah, but he can't.
THERAPIST: Well, maybe. But it sounds like he's...that's what's most important. [30:45]
CLIENT: Well, I think that was his idea before. And then after my uncle died, and then after the incident where he found out that he didn't have any money in his account anymore, I think his eyes started opening a little bit more. And other people started seeing what was going on. And it was to the point where I think he hit his breaking point. Because he constantly had my mother all over him telling how bad his family was, about how the things that they did, this that and the other thing. And it is frustrating because it is his family and I do think he wanted to keep the peace a little bit. But I think they crossed over that boundary.
THERAPIST: But he's still talking to them? [31:37]
CLIENT: Oh, yeah. He's like the arbitrator. He's the only one that can keep a cool head with them. But even now he's starting to lose his cool. Because every time he tries to just talk to his sister, my uncle butts in and it's starting to piss him off a little more because it's none of my uncle's business. It's between my dad and my aunt. And I guess it comes into the point where we all want to know what is his deal, why is he getting involved in this? He has nothing do to do with it.
THERAPIST: Your aunt's -
CLIENT: Husband.
THERAPIST: - husband?
CLIENT: Uh-huh. Because it seems to me like he's making all the decisions. He's the one telling us what we can and can't do. And then when my dad has a conversation with my aunt, she tells him one thing and then he comes back and says, "No, we're not doing that." What's going on here? Why you running us in circles, just tell us the truth. Tell us what you're doing. It's to the point where I think my aunt is helpless, but my aunt just wants everything to go away. She just...I mean, it was to the point where we finally decided to sell my grandmother's house where my aunt was getting upset because now they started, after they drained my grandmother, they had to start going in their own pockets to pay for stuff. And it was really a burden on them. Because now she didn't have her money anymore. She couldn't use my grandmother's because my grandmother is broke. They sucked every little penny out of her accounts. [33:24]
THERAPIST: To buy new cars and stuff?
CLIENT: Not cars, clothing. They used some of her money to help pay for a condo up here that they have. And just in general, just buying junk. I mean, they were doing food shopping with my grandmother's card. What does my grandmother need to pay for groceries for? For a house that she's not living in, why is my grandmother paying for groceries? Why is she paying for toilet paper? Why is my grandmother paying for a plumber to come into a house? [34:02]
THERAPIST: It sounds like you know a lot about their finances.
CLIENT: Well, because we got the checkbook. We got the checkbook, and we saw what we were doing.
THERAPIST: So your - who got the checkbook, the -
CLIENT: My dad got it.
THERAPIST: I see.
CLIENT: When they had to go somewhere and my grandmother stays at my house like two weeks out of the year. And that's when all this stuff started coming out. Because my grandmother talks about how she thought that my uncle was trying to kill her. When they are in Texas, my aunt and my uncle just leave her alone for two, three hours, four hours at a time. Don't look out for her, she's 90 years old. And she tells me how...tells my dad how much she hates living there, and how they treat her like garbage, and this that and the other thing. But then when they're right there and he confronts them about it, she said she never said that.
So my grandmother is not all there or she is, but she's not because she's in love with her daughter which she's always been. And that's fine. But don't be crying to my dad and telling them this stuff. And then when he comes about it, you don't back him up. It's just really frustrating because all I do is I hear all this negative stuff about what's going on. And I can't put a positive on it because I've never witnessed one. I've never been involved in a positive.
And it's just...it's frustrating to me because it's to the point where on I don't get mad at the situation, I just get mad because I don't want to talk about it anymore. I don't want to listen to it on anymore. And every time I'm around, it's all that's brought up.
THERAPIST: When you're with your parents? [35:38]
CLIENT: When I'm with my parents, when I'm with my dad's side of the family. I don't care. I don't care.
THERAPIST: Well, maybe you need to move out and get your own place and not be around it all the time.
CLIENT: Well, I...and eventually that's what's it's going to be. It is what it's going to be. And there's a lot of things that I want to do, but I don't want them involved. And the hardest part is telling my dad I don't want them involved. I mean, I understand he's hurt, but how hurt is he going to be after I have to have this conversation with him that I don't want them there. I'm not... it's not a question.
THERAPIST: You don't want - you mean at their wedding?
CLIENT: At my wedding.
THERAPIST: At your wedding? [36:35]
CLIENT: Or anything of mine. I don't want them there. I mean, it is literally to the point if anything happens to my grand - I had this conversation with my mother. Said I don't know if I'd even go to my grandmother's funeral now. That's how upset I am at the fact that this is what's going on. Imagine that. And it's to the point where I have - and this is where it comes back in where people call me heartless where, "You would not even go to your own grandmother's funeral?" I go, 'If I have to hurt somebody to make a point, I would."
THERAPIST: Yeah, the thing is that I don't think by hurting people you're making any point.
CLIENT: How so?
THERAPIST: Because you're...I mean, first of all, they can interpret a lot of things into your not coming. But I don't...I don't know. I'm not sure that - you're really embroiled in this. If you do this people will notice and realize you're committing (inaudible at 37:33)?
CLIENT: And that's what I want is I want people to notice that I'm not there.
THERAPIST: Right. But I'm saying some...I mean, some people aren't as - they, you know, "Oh, I guess, you know, Jordan had something else to do today." They might you know -
CLIENT: The funny thing is if it's your grandmother, someone who's really close to you, you shouldn't miss it.
THERAPIST: Oh, I agree, but -
CLIENT: You know?
THERAPIST: - I think you...I think because you're so embroiled in it, it's hard to imagine that other people aren't.
CLIENT: Well, I just want to do it just to maybe open my dad's eyes a little bit about how I felt. [38:08]
THERAPIST: So you feel you're really not able to get through to him?
CLIENT: I don't think so. And it's - and it takes something for me to do something so harsh, so brash like that.
THERAPIST: So you feel he doesn't understand how hurt you are?
CLIENT: No.
THERAPIST: And you don't...and you feel helpless to be able to communicate that?
CLIENT: Correct.
THERAPIST: So that you feel if you do something dramatic maybe you'll communicate that to him?
CLIENT: Maybe. Maybe put him on the spot a little bit. "Why isn't your son here? It's his grandmother's funeral, why isn't he here." I know it sounds chaotic, but that's -
THERAPIST: But you're not really sure how to get your dad to listen to you?
CLIENT: I don't think he can listen to me. That's my whole point is I don't think he will listen to me. Anything I say he's going to do his own thing anyway. And that's what frustrates me. [39:01]
THERAPIST: But then this isn't initially about the anger toward your grandmother, it's about the anger towards to your dad. I mean, if your grandmother is dead, I mean, it depends on your religious views, but she might not know you're at...not at the funeral, but your dad would know.
CLIENT: Yeah, I guess so. I guess, yeah. I guess you're right. I didn't think of it like that, but that is...that does make a lot of sense is how I have to hurt my dad to get through to him. And it's...I mean, if that's what I have to do, I have to do it. But then again I'd be hurting a lot of other people as well. I'd be hurting my siblings.
THERAPIST: And yourself.
CLIENT: See, I don't know if I'd hurt myself.
THERAPIST: Really?
CLIENT: I honestly right now I can say I don't know. But if I did it I might regret it, but I don't know. [40:03]
THERAPIST: Well, but - I mean, it sounds like you're feeling very helpless to really get through to your father to communicate to him, and to communicate not just anything, but very painful feelings that you have. And you're not really sure how to get through to him.
CLIENT: No I don't. Because I don't think he understands. He'll never understand. He'll never understand what I went through. He'll never understand what I've been...what I'm still going through. And I mean, there's certain things that I just...I can't bring up to him. And I guess it is like that thing where it's just like I'm doing all these things looking for attention, but I'm probably still never going to get it. And that's what hurts me. That's what hurts me is that I'm doing all this looking for attention, and I'm never going to get it.
I mean, I hate to bring it back, but that's - I didn't intend to overdose on drugs. But if I didn't, they would have never known I had a drug problem, and I would have died. And still I don't think that registered. My dad was more mad that I was selling drugs and doing drugs in his house than me almost dying. He was more upset with that. And that bothered me. That bothered me. Not that I had an addiction, not that I was doing drugs for other reasons that were going on, but the fact that I did them in his house and was selling them out of his house. That's what really pissed him off. And then he got pissed off because he thought I was running a drug ring out of his house. And then he was mad that maybe the cops could be on me or any of that stuff. And that frustrates me.
Here I am, I'm crying for help, something is obviously going on and the only thing you can say is, "How the hell could you do that in my house, under my roof?" Not, "What's wrong with you? What's going on? Why you turning to all these drugs?" I mean, it's to the point now where I'm just so...I get so amped up and I try to - I do depend on substances. I'm not going to lie, but I...it's been so hard because I haven't smoked marijuana in two months. I haven't gotten drunk in a while. I don't want to turn to any of those anymore. I don't want to turn to drugs. I don't want to turn to that.
But the only thing that I think about every day, and the only thing that I crave every day, is chewing tobacco. Because I used to be really addicted to chewing tobacco in college. It used to relax me, it used to do all this stuff. And then I went to the dentist, and my teeth were almost going to fall out. And he said, "You come back and it's worse, we're doing a biopsy in your mouth." And I put the stuff down and haven't touched it since. But that's the one thing to this day that I crave continuously is chewing tobacco because it helps me deal with my anxiety. It helps me relax.
But the scared part of it is when I was told that they were doing the thing on my mouth...the biopsy on my mouth and I still - that's why I don't buy any chewing tobacco. Do I still smoke cigarettes occasionally, yes. I mean, I smoke more cigarettes than I like to because I don't even want to smoke cigarettes. [44:08]
THERAPIST: Well, it sounds like you've...these helpless and...helplessness you feel over getting through to your father and all that anger you feel about it, it's like you're not really sure where to turn. And I think that's why you started talking about drugs at this moment because you started talking about something that -
CLIENT: Uh-huh.
THERAPIST: - maybe that could soothe you. But there're...there's all sorts of problems with that too.
CLIENT: Oh, I agree. And that's the hardest part is I'm lucky I'm not craving cocaine. I'm lucky I'm not craving prescription pills. I'm lucky I'm not craving marijuana. I'm lucky I'm don't crave alcohol. I don't crave those anymore. I don't crave those which knock on wood, thank God I don't. Because I do have a problem where if ... if I start something, it goes. And I don't go soft on it, I go hard.
So the things that I've been trying to do is I've been trying to go to the gym more consistently. Because I do get that relief from working out and lifting weights and doing all that stuff. And I do drink occasionally, but I don't drink every night like I used to and drink to you get smashed. I don't...I don't do it. I don't want to turn to those hard substances. And it's not to say cigarettes are good for you either, but I do those because I just need one or two and that's it. And then I won't have another one for months. But it's to the point where I just need something extra to help me with my own anxiety. [45:44]
THERAPIST: And that's something that we can talk about and think about together -
CLIENT: Okay.
THERAPIST: - but we need to stop for today. So did you want to find another time next week or are you just not going to be here?
CLIENT: I mean, it's up to you. I don't...I don't know. I just can't do Thursday because I have a college fair that starts at four that goes to nine that I have to work.
THERAPIST: I could do something...like I have a couple oh, it starts - I could do something earlier in the afternoon is that a possibility?
CLIENT: What time?
THERAPIST: I think I have something at 12:30 available, is that something that might work for you? Is that to -
CLIENT: No. I don't think it's going to...just the rushing with time and stuff. I don't want to.
THERAPIST: I could always do a Friday like mid morning at...I could do a nine o'clock on Friday?
CLIENT: I'll have to check, I'm not sure. [46:34]
THERAPIST: Okay. It's up to you. I just wanted to -
CLIENT: No, I -
THERAPIST: - offer you alternative, so let me know.
CLIENT: Okay.
THERAPIST: Okay?
CLIENT: I'll let you know...I'll let you know probably tomorrow or Saturday.
THERAPIST: Okay, great.
CLIENT: All righty.
THERAPIST: Great, okay.
CLIENT: Thank you very much, Dr. Feldman -
THERAPIST: Thank you. Thank you.
CLIENT: - I appreciate it.
THERAPIST: I'll see you...so I'll see you the next week or the following week?
CLIENT: Yep.
THERAPIST: Okay, great.
CLIENT: Okay. Thanks.
THERAPIST: Take care. Bye-bye.
END TRANSCRIPT
