TRANSCRIPT OF AUDIO FILE:
______________________________________________________________________________
BEGIN TRANSCRIPT:
CLIENT: How are you?
THERAPIST: I'm okay. Good morning.
CLIENT: Good morning. (pause for .08 seconds) I was trying to figure out if you were running late 10 minutes every time, would I be on time every time? And I think the answer is no. I would still be even more late.
THERAPIST: That's odd.
CLIENT: But it was really nice today when I was running 10 minutes late (ph).
THERAPIST: Um, well, I'm sorry to be late but I'm glad you accommodate.
CLIENT: (laughs) Um, I think I have to cut back to once a week —
THERAPIST: Oh, okay.
CLIENT: because I think we're going to run out, and now that it seems clear that Jeremy is going to keep his job, we can move towards like seeing when his open enrollment is exactly and what it means—[00:01:16]
THERAPIST: Uh huh.
CLIENT: and what my benefits will be —
THERAPIST: Got ya.
CLIENT: et cetera. But to avoid a lapse, a big lapse—I don't know how many sessions it's been and how many I have left, but from my calculations earlier this is the time that we -
THERAPIST: Right. It's up to you. If you want I can take a quick look and count. It'll take a minute or two, or -
CLIENT: Okay.
THERAPIST: Yeah? 
CLIENT: If his insurance is going to cover twice a week, um, —
THERAPIST: You'd like that? (ph)
CLIENT: (pause for .04 seconds) Do you—employee insurance? Blue Cross? It might be Blue Cross Blue Shield?
THERAPIST: Um.
CLIENT: So for him they covered twice a week for three months, and his person had to, like, sign a thing that said, 'yes, Jeremy should see me twice a week cause it's medically necessary.' [00:02:36]
And then that ran out and then she signed a thing that said, 'yes, we will—' He wasn't able to do twice a week anymore, according to insurance, and she—and he and she agreed to that, like that was okay with him.
THERAPIST: Right.
CLIENT: So I'm not sure -
THERAPIST: Ah, let's see—well I guess there are two factors (inaudible at 00:03:12). That sounds more like an HMO —
CLIENT: Okay.
THERAPIST: cause it was—my guess is that one offers various plans. I know I've seen somebody, two people on that insurance who had the PPO, and in that case you don't need any kind of approval —
CLIENT: Okay.
THERAPIST: for insurance or anything. You can just do whatever seems appropriate. (ph) Um, so this sounds more like an HMO, which is where there's that kind of oversight from Blue Cross.
CLIENT: Okay.
THERAPIST: And so (pause for .05 seconds) in that case, the two factors are, other factors are: one—so I am getting off of Blue Cross as of January 1st -
CLIENT: Okay. [00:04:08]
THERAPIST: as I may have mentioned that I was planning to do, or maybe I did not mention I was planning to do?
CLIENT: I think you might have, but it didn't register.
THERAPIST: Okay. So what that means is that the HMO won't, ah, cover for me anymore, but the PPO will.
CLIENT: Okay.
THERAPIST: Although there would be a co-pay probably and on top of the recording (ph) which would probably be like 25 bucks.
CLIENT: Um hmm.
THERAPIST: Um, so I mean (inaudible at 00:04:57) to you but, right—if he has an HMO and has 
(inaudible at 00:05:06) coming, my guess is that what he—like if you wanted to continue—either coming once or twice a week, it would probably be cheaper to just switch to the PPO. 
CLIENT: To the PPO.
THERAPIST: Yeah. These days, at least I'm hearing—a friend recently told me that they switched and it was 45 bucks a month to switch for they and their spouse, which was obviously less than -
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: Um, and in that case, I think as far as insurance goes the difference between once and twice a week would be the $25 co-pay. And that so -
CLIENT: Okay, and then if we didn't switch, then actually we would have to think about whether it was worth it at all. [00:05:56]
THERAPIST: Right, in that the cost then would be my usual fee which is $150 minus the recording which would be $50, so it would be $100 a visit.
CLIENT: Okay. Plus the $3000 extra for me to enroll that we would have to pay to get me on his health insurance.
THERAPIST: Oh, there's an up-front cost to get you on his plan.
CLIENT: The monthly rate goes up to cover a spouse.
THERAPIST: Oh, I see, and it's $3000 out-of-pocket for you.
CLIENT: Um hmm.
THERAPIST: Wow. That's a lot. I'm surprised cause that's like trying to (inaudible at 00:06:40)
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: Right. Yeah, that's significant. Um -
CLIENT: So that—that might—so anyway we have to talk about it.
THERAPIST: Sure.
CLIENT: But this is good to know.
THERAPIST: Okay. Yeah, and if you—it maybe very straight forward to tell whether he's on a PPO or an HMO, but if you have a question or sort of maybe or if it's a point of (inaudible at 00:07:10) or if it's confusing, that's easy for me to check on-line; probably easier for me to check than you.
CLIENT: Okay.
THERAPIST: You can check—go ahead—but I'm just -
CLIENT: I have no interest.
THERAPIST: (laughs) 
CLIENT: I'm digging deep into this. Clearly I have like no information or I probably could've —
THERAPIST: Sure. I wish I didn't either but I just have to deal with it a lot.
CLIENT: Yeah. Sounds like it sucks.
THERAPIST: Yeah, I mean once you kind of are forced to learn how it works, it's easier. (ph)
CLIENT: Okay.
THERAPIST: So, okay, then (pause for .04 seconds) what makes sense then—I assume we meet tomorrow and then go from there, and you can let me know. I imagine I won't have anything figured out by tomorrow, but -
CLIENT: We can—we can -
THERAPIST: deciding for the next few weeks anyway. [00:08:02]
CLIENT: Yeah, I think probably sticking with Thursday might be good. And then we can try to get on the ball.
THERAPIST: Okay.
CLIENT: We have a list of very important things that we want to take care of that neither of us has had the mental room to take care of—like, getting a refund for the trip that we skipped, which is like $900.
And writing thank-you notes, and dealing with health insurance; looking it up, weighing our options, deciding. We've sort of just been—like, it's all on our white board—on our list—and it's been there for a long time. [00:09:08]
THERAPIST: Right.
CLIENT: So, unfortunately, this is one of those things that has fallen into the 'very important no room for it' category. But it's important and it seems time to deal with it. Um, how do people generally decide that they don't want to be in therapy anymore?
THERAPIST: Um, (pause for .14 seconds) well, the part of that that takes place in therapy is pretty much the same as how everything else takes place in therapy. Um, but (pause for .12 seconds) not much that I can say is beyond what you'd think—I mean, sometimes people decide they're better enough; sometimes people decide it's not helping enough; sometimes people decide that it's not worth it. I guess those are the three things. 
CLIENT: Hmm. Okay. Seems like that's going to come up now that I hear the different options said out loud, and I think that if it were up to me I would just continue on forever because I like it. [00:10:57]
THERAPIST: Okay. I'm glad you like it. (ph)
CLIENT: Yeah, I like it. But I don't know how I feel about not continuing on forever. I think it's okay. Um, I've been feeling well and I still think I'm continuing this like every week or every so often there's some new (pause for .03 seconds) theme.
Like last week it was like my grandmother's comments and the phone call with her, and thinking about giving and taking, and being given to. Now I'm thinking a lot about this, um, talk that I listened to on Friday about (pause for .05 seconds) how much of our time is spent thinking about whether we are okay or whether we're going to be okay or whether we were okay. [00:12:18]
And I listened to it once and—Jeremy and I listened to it driving up together, which was very cool cause he liked it and that made me feel good. And I just started to notice after that talk how many of my thoughts are focused on that, and it's usually the future for me. So I've sort of started to treat it like a meditation or just like trying to be mindful all the time, and it's hard to notice it and then not resist it, but I'm—I think just noticing it is sometimes enough to disperse the thought. [00:13:15]
Like, for example, and I think this has been true my whole life—I don't know—maybe like why would she give this talk if like other people didn't have this—
THERAPIST: Sure.
CLIENT: also. But I think—
THERAPIST: Who gave it? (ph)
CLIENT: (pause for .06 seconds) her name begins with a C—and I don't know her last name—and some seed.org. Ah, it was very good, it was a good talk. She talked a lot about restlessness as actually being one of the last hurdles or, um, pheta (ph) obstacle? [00:14:17]
It's a phrase that she used that I've never heard before. Anyway, on the path to enlightenment that the Buddha (ph) wrote about. And it was nice that she discussed restlessness; this doesn't seem like a very advanced -
THERAPIST: Um hmm.
CLIENT: like if we all suffer from restlessness, it seems like one of the things that you would get rid of early. 
THERAPIST: Um hmm.
CLIENT: But I think it really resonated with me how restless I am and have always been, and how much of my thoughts deal with, "Am I okay now?" which didn't always used to be true, but in the last several months I think that has been a much louder presence. [00:15:15]
THERAPIST: Um hmm.
CLIENT: And then I think I've always been consumed with, "Am I going to be okay?" And it comes in different forms: it's like so this weekend we're having, ah, the people that I'm closest to in lab and their spouses, over for dinner and this was like a really big gift that Jeremy gave me—to allow this to happen. 
He's super-shy and being around ten relative strangers, even though four of them came to our wedding, is just like—he would rather like be eating worms. (laughs) He has no interest in extending himself.
THERAPIST: Yeah. [00:16:05]
CLIENT: So I eventually had to just recognize it as just a very strong need, that like this community be -
THERAPIST: Uh huh.
CLIENT: that I help and strengthen this community, to have all of us over—everyone else has had all of us, the rest of the group over in some capacity, so we're sort of the last ones.
THERAPIST: I see.
CLIENT: Anyway, so that's like an example of a positive anticipatory, like something that causes a lot of really positive anticipatory feelings and thoughts for me. So it's like very repetitive though—like many, many times a day will my mind go to that event. [00:16:58]
That's how creativity happens actually for me—it's like visualizing what the apartment looks like: okay, we should buy a pumpkin, so we bought a pumpkin; and oh, we should get string lights; and oh, this is going to be really good for this person's kid, and just all of this mapping. 
Very, very enjoyable types of thoughts, but now that I'm (pause for .03 seconds) now that I see it in a different light it's very much about like, "Is it going to be okay?"
THERAPIST: Um hmm.
CLIENT: (pause for .04 seconds) And there's no doubt—like part of what makes it fun is there isn't any really doubt. Like, it's going to be fine.
THERAPIST: Right.
CLIENT: But many of these thoughts are like, "Oh it will be even better with a pumpkin," and like, "It'll be even better with blah, blah, blah." [00:18:05]
THERAPIST: Um hmm.
CLIENT: A different example is this lab retreat that our lab and the two closest—socially and scientifically—TB labs in the area are going on in two weeks. This—so I can't—I just notice all of these things. I think my whole life, like when I think about future events, there's this really distinctive landscape—a topological (sic) landscape that I see—and things of significance are bumped.
THERAPIST: Um hmm.
CLIENT: And I have a lot more anxiety about the future when there are bumps in the landscape and very little anxiety when there are no bumps. [00:19:04]
And like, I can't see past—like, you know, whatever—one month or something, but each day has its own thing. So this retreat is like exactly the same thing; this repetitive thinking about it—10 or 15 times a day—I don't know if that's accurate but a lot.
Thinking like, "Am I going to be okay at the retreat?" I haven't traveled alone, without family, since whatever heightened anxiety I had begun to experience. When I have had a lot of low points—like even at Jeremy's parent's place this weekend I had a pretty scary low point. [00:20:01]
We were traveling to this wedding and I just (pause for .03 seconds) had this really strong wash of panic and (pause for .04 seconds) sadness and I couldn't pay attention to what people were saying in the car, and I couldn't -
THERAPIST: Huh.
CLIENT: it was very scary. But I, you know, it was in the car and I was alone in the backseat, and I took it as an opportunity to just observe it—but of course my mind was like running to all of these things like: okay, when is it going to get so bad that I have to be like, "Jeremy, we have to stop the car." Or, "Rose,"—Jeremy's mom—"we have to stop the car." [00:21:00]
Or like, "Maybe I'll just miss the wedding; maybe I'll just stay in the car; or maybe, I will—oh I don't even know what they're saying." All of this—(pause for .05 seconds) it felt like a drop—it felt like a depressive thing and an anxiety thing.
THERAPIST: Um hmm.
CLIENT: And then it, um, and then it passed.
THERAPIST: Huh. Do you have any idea what precipitated it?
CLIENT: No. It was almost like the SSRI kicked in, which I know is chemically probably not what happened, but that's how it felt. 
THERAPIST: Comes to mind, yeah.
CLIENT: And I sat with it, I definitely sat with it. I didn't—that's all I could do.
THERAPIST: Yep.
CLIENT: I didn't talk about it. I didn't distract myself. I just sort of observed it as much as I could, although clearly my mind was really (pause for .03 seconds) like thinking about a lot of stuff. [00:22:16]
Um, (pause for .05 seconds) and, okay, so I don't know what made it pass but I know what it felt like to know that it had passed, which was—I started feeling happy about what we were doing. (pause for .04 seconds) The landscape was beautiful and we were going to this super-fun wedding, and we were going to be guests and we didn't have to do anything at the wedding.
And (pause for .05 seconds) everything that I—that seemed scary and sad that I didn't want to do, was happy. [00:23:07]
THERAPIST: Yeah. Um, (pause for .05 seconds) what you just said about almost kind of remembering that you were going to be guests, (laughs) I guess that sort of struck me like -
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: who knows? But it made me think (pause for .03 seconds) that what may have caused the drop was something about (pause for .06 seconds) remembering the stress or the bad part of your wedding.
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: Like you almost honestly had the fantasy that you were going to your wedding —
CLIENT: Right.
THERAPIST: until you remembered otherwise. [00:24:00]
CLIENT: Yeah, I mean I didn't—it must have been unconscious cause I didn't -
THERAPIST: Sure.
CLIENT: think about my wedding but—yeah definitely like my more exploratory social side came back and it was like, "Oh, there's going to be these interesting people, and there's going to be food, and drinks, and (pause for .07 seconds) it won't last—it's not going to be that long." 
Like all of these comforting thoughts—all of these thoughts became comforting.
THERAPIST: Um hmm.
CLIENT: (pause for .04 seconds) So that—I mean that was a pretty powerful and nice experience actually, because I think it boosted my confidence a little bit. About my ability to sit with whatever it was and -
THERAPIST: Right. [00:25:09]
CLIENT: I didn't know that it was going to pass but I—it did pass.
THERAPIST: It reminds me of the—well, first that's good. I mean if it helped you feel more confident—and also it reminds me a little bit of (pause for .05 seconds) like I wonder if this is sort of a bigger version of thinking about like the party at your house—which sounds like it's also sort of an amalgam of -
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: kind of worrying about things being okay, followed by thinking nice things about it that actually contribute to your, not just feeling okay, but better than okay -
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: excited about it, looking forward to it. [00:26:10]
CLIENT: Um hmm. (pause for .05 seconds) So with the retreat, I was, um, the worries that come up are like just, you know, what if something—what if I start to feel really bad, and there's no one really—well, actually luckily I have been pretty open with a few people, including my advisor. So actually I could probably just be like, "Hey, I feel bad," and leave for a little while.
So, and there's going to be drinking, and I don't know what my relationship is with drinking right now. It's something I really feel like I want more of but it doesn't really work chemically. And I'm giving a talk—which is the least scary thing about all of this, because I have kind of a lot of confidence in my ability to do public speaking.
But, you know, I'm giving a talk, so it's like I have to do the talk -
THERAPIST: Right.
CLIENT: and I have to prepare for it. So the landscape is really bumpy leading up to the retreat because of that, but then on the other hand it's going to be really, a really like actually cozy thing—just going to be these three labs. There's going to be hikes and bumper cars and much of it will be a social experience. I like all the people. [00:28:02]
I imagine it will really rejuvenate me and my feelings about lab, so it's—you know, it's all like normal stuff but um, it just surprised me how much of the day is spent wondering if I'm going to be okay in these various situations. 
(pause for .03 seconds) And I don't think that that is new. 
THERAPIST: Um hmm. 
CLIENT: I think what's new is maybe my lack of (pause for .04 seconds) like, when I think back to some times when I maybe felt like completely great and in control, it's just the amount of (pause for .04 seconds) youthful happiness and sort of like cheer and positive anticipation and energy that I have brought to all of these thoughts that helped me overcome, or maybe not notice, the anxieties. [00:29:18]
And that doesn't really seem to be in place as much anymore. (pause for .05 seconds) But it's there a little bit. 
THERAPIST: I guess I have this sense—although correct me—of like, that there's a slight positive trend there -
CLIENT: Um hmm.
THERAPIST: over the last while?
CLIENT: Yes.
THERAPIST: Yeah.
CLIENT: For sure.
THERAPIST: That's good. Um, (pause for .20 seconds) ah, it sounds—(pause for .06 seconds) I have two thoughts: sometimes there's something about, something to do with the worry about being alone -
CLIENT: Yeah, not like alone without any people, but alone without -
THERAPIST: the feeling.
CLIENT: Yeah, like a complete -
THERAPIST: I guess I was thinking of the example of it in here a minute ago or so, when you said, "Gosh, you know, I'm worried. What if I'm there and I feel bad?" That was thought one. And thought two was, "Well, but I have told people I work with about this, including my advisor so I could just say something and -"
CLIENT: Yeah. [00:31:10]
THERAPIST: "she would understand and be okay with it," which isn't exactly what you said, but that was the feeling I got from what you said.
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: Um -
CLIENT: And not so much that she would be okay with it but that I would feel (pause for .04 seconds) comforted or nurtured.
THERAPIST: Yeah. (pause for .04 seconds) and -
CLIENT: Like I had a similar, um, worry before going to Jeremy's house -
THERAPIST: Um hmm.
CLIENT: which is a little strange cause I—but anyway, but Tammy was going to be there and her baby -
THERAPIST: Right.
CLIENT: and it was wonderful. 
THERAPIST: Oh good.
CLIENT: But I shared all these worries with Jeremy, which is like, "Oh, yeah what if I feel bad? What if—and then there's all this stuff with being around a baby." And like, I'm totally excited to be around a baby, but—anyway, just like Tammy and her mom have very similar sort of, very narrative, specific ways about being around the baby. Like, narrating everything he does, and like repeating his sounds, and all of this stuff and it was just getting really overwhelming.
THERAPIST: That they do intentionally or for the baby's benefit?
CLIENT: Um hmm.
THERAPIST: How old is the baby?
CLIENT: One. So like -
THERAPIST: Like this is part of how they're socializing -
CLIENT: Yeah. So like, "Plop! Pick up the spoon," like as he's picking up the spoon. Like, "Walk, walk, walk," like, "Bump!" Like, this narrating, which I find really annoying, and Jeremy does too. He's not speaking yet but a lot of vocalizing, so a lot of rar-rar-rar; just like repeating what he's saying. [00:33:03]
THERAPIST: (laughs)
CLIENT: And Jeremy completely doesn't do any of this. Jeremy speaks to him in English. 
THERAPIST: (laughs)
CLIENT: And Jeremy's like, "Just do what you want. You're his aunt. You have complete -" So but there is this worry that, "You can feel bad in front of my family and everyone—people have been there and they know." It occurred to me that, yeah, I can.
So then the worries completely went away—partly sharing it with Jeremy was helpful. So at the retreat, it's not as if there's like this big family sitting around a wood stove and I can spontaneously start crying—which is what I did this weekend for like ten seconds.
But it's almost as if, if that's not the situation, then I feel uncomfortable with it; which is (laughs) like most of life is not like that—sitting around a wood stove with the family. [00:34:03]
THERAPIST: (pause for .03 seconds) I guess I have the impression as well that I can, I think I can get a fairly clear sense of what you're describing it by how you're describing it—but um, it isn't, I don't so much get a first-hand sense of it here because um, this is a setting where you—I think feel fairly comfortable feeling what you're feeling, and where it's clearly okay if you get upset —
CLIENT: Um hmm.
THERAPIST: or something. So, I'm not quite sure what to do with that, but it seems (pause for .08 seconds)—I know, it's important. Um -
CLIENT: But not that surprising. [00:35:17]
THERAPIST: No. Not surprising.
CLIENT: This is exactly the sort of setting in which I would feel comfortable.
THERAPIST: Yeah. 
CLIENT: And that's part of what's special about being around a family too. Actually that's the whole point—at least in the two families that I've been lucky enough to be part of. It's like you sit around and you share what's bothering you, if you want, or you like laugh the rest of the time. [00:35:56]
THERAPIST: Right. Um, (pause for .08 seconds) I think the time or the ways you've felt otherwise here—I guess partly why I'm talking about this is cause it's sort of something I like to extrapolate from (inaudible at 00:36:36)
CLIENT: Um hmm.
THERAPIST: Um, were when you felt, and you may still feel like this—I don't know—but you felt a bit self-conscious when I probably waved my arms around and fussed about looking at what goes on in here as well as looking together at what goes on elsewhere. (ph)
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: And, I'm bringing that up because I imagine the worry it evoked might have had to do with being concerned that we would see things differently in the way that was a problem, especially if they were to do with—I don't know—things between you and I. That somehow it was easier to be confident that if we were looking together at something outside, we'd see it similarly. [00:37:21]
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: Whereas if we were looking at something that was in here that could come between us, we might no? Where there was somehow more risk of that.
CLIENT: Yeah. That's interesting. (pause for .05 seconds) Yeah, almost in a sense of like if this retreat were like, everyone just knew that sometimes you don't feel great and you just do what you want to do, and it's talked about. Everyone sort of sees mental health and mood and what's nice about being distinct individual personalities, as just like the way that it is, in a nice way. [00:38:26]
I'm not sure what it actually is—maybe it is that way—but I get the sense that in (pause for .05 seconds) familiar sort of always trying to appear interested or trying to appear (pause for .04 seconds) competent or whatever in the science world.
THERAPIST: Um hmm. There's a bit of a feeling of being among colleagues that way. [00:39:02]
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: That can be considered family. (ph)
CLIENT: Yeah, (pause for .04 seconds) and there is this shield of like people don't really talk about personal things that much.
THERAPIST: Um hmm.
CLIENT: I do. And people have noticed that about me and thanked me for being open and honest. A couple of people in the lab have said like, "Wow. You've really inspired me to meditate, to do yoga, think about (inaudible at 00:39:44)
But, anyway, yeah, seeing things differently (pause for .04 seconds) or coming to different conclusions, especially when one person has the power or the capacity to—I don't know—do something to me, like influence my PHD course, or like for you—I don't know—the things you say carry a lot of weight. [00:40:26]
Not in a sense that I can't be objective and say, "Well actually I didn't really agree with that," but still the fact—I don't know—there's sort of this, um, respect; one-way or respect relationship (pause for .04 seconds) that's very deep-seated in me. [00:40:59]
I grew up with all Hinduism and my family values have to do with respecting elders, and respecting teachers, and respecting the gods, and respecting your parents, and showing the respect -
THERAPIST: Um hmm.
CLIENT: (pause for .04 seconds) so I definitely carry that around.
THERAPIST: So we should finish up for now and continue tomorrow. [00:41:31]
(sounds of door opening, paper shuffling to [00:41:55]
Take care, (client name) [00:41:57]
END TRANSCRIPT
