TRANSCRIPT OF AUDIO FILE:
______________________________________________________________________________
BEGIN TRANSCRIPT:
CLIENT: The first observation is that apparently my sleep is very disruptive, which I guess is not a huge shocker, but I'm totally unaware of it obviously. Apparently I'm talking a lot in my sleep, usually incoherent. I'm also waking up with what you call night terrors, lying across the bed, falling asleep in my clothes for example, not sleeping well at all, so also pretty poor sleep. I'm on about four hours now, which is better than sometimes. [00:01:17]
THERAPIST: Sometimes in recent weeks and months?
CLIENT: In recent weeks and months. 
THERAPIST: That's not very much.
CLIENT: No. No. It's not enough but it's better than the alternative. I have to say that sometimes it feels like I'm not quite woken up and I suspect that there's some interaction between my state of mind and the "sleep cycle drive" for a better way of phrasing it. I don't draw a [ ] (inaudible at 00:01:52) here.
THERAPIST: When you say sometimes you're not quite woken up?
CLIENT: It feels like kind of like when at work or what have you, it feels like I'm in kind of a dream state. It feels not quite . . . I don't know how to describe it. [00:02:11]
THERAPIST: Yeah. Surreal, dreamy.
CLIENT: It feels a little surreal, dreamy, yeah. I've accelerated the process with the Bank. I was very wary of this option. Basically I sold it to her as a way of creating some space while I figure out what the next move is. It would be a consultancy, six to twelve months. I'm negotiating over the terms and I'm talking to the communications director on Friday. This, in and of itself, is not really a career move although it could potentially point the way towards one. [00:03:13] How to make it so was an issue. What's interesting to me, I guess, in the context of our conversation is that I've been going to work every day, not getting a whole lot done, to be perfectly honest, unless forced to by some external interaction—nothing done really unless forced to by some external interaction. The moment I talked to Jack—the kind of state of mind that we've been working with for the last weeks is totally operative; I mean it's totally there. I feel oppressed. I feel really in distress. The moment I talked to Jack on the phone, that distress lifted. [00:04:14]
THERAPIST: Jack [ ] (inaudible at 00:04:16) 
CLIENT: Jack is my old friend and Kevin's old friend who I've worked with for years and is now in New York on this "adventure" as he put it. 
THERAPIST: Sorry—he's the . . ?
CLIENT: It's impossible to get ahold of the president of the Bank, as you might expect. It's not impossible to get a hold of Jack. We've been trying for a few days to talk by phone. In any case, he's kind of mediating or brokering this. [00:04:55] (sighs) It's like my whole state of mind changed, you know? My whole sense of the world changed. It was almost instantaneous. It was a dramatic, dramatic change in my state of mind. I imagined all the physiological correlates also shifted—my blood pressure was lower, my breathing was different—all of these things just sort of changed on a dime. In retrospect, it was kind of bizarre. One moment you're completely ensconced in this nightmarish state of being and then it's all gone and I've just gone back to normal or whatever the baseline is, back to what I would like to think of is myself. [00:06:11] 
I had a similar experience yesterday. I'm sitting at this desk, this cubicle. Phil did this completely stupid thing. He spent $20,000 on 2,000 paper copies of basically a guide to clinical practice for [ ] (inaudible at 00:06:31) diseases in low-income countries. He spent $20,000 on this. He got 2,000 copies and he spent absolutely no time or energy trying to move them anywhere. I did my best, writing to medical libraries seeing if they wanted a copy. This, that and the other thing. I moved about 250 of them at the most, so there are 40 boxes of these books that are cluttering up the office and they asked us to move them. The only place to move them was to the cubicle, which I fought for eight months to get, which is now full of these boxes and I had to move them myself. I was just totally pissed, completely fed up; sitting there, not working, with people going back and forth and I'm just like "What the f**k?" just feeling this sense of oppression and distress and upset and anger and all of these things. [00:07:41] So I came home and I was really in a state. [Ruby] (ph) came back and about 8:45—9:00 and she was in a really good mood. She'd been with a couple of friends of hers. It was like the whole thing lifted the moment I could interact with somebody who I just felt happy to be with. It just went. It was like two different people. I don't know how to put it. I guess I present these two little case studies diagnostically in the sense that there's something about the interaction that is central here. Something about the interaction that is central here. (sighs) I don't know. I don't know. I don't know what to make of it. All I know is that in a longitudinal sense my sleep is disrupted. I'm in some difficulty independently of what it feels like on a moment-to-moment level, like my state of mind. On the other hand, at least in some sense, that state of mind seems to be really significantly affected by these kinds of interactions—senses of possibility or something. [00:09:33] (pause) So I guess the challenge that I'm feeling right now, I'm feeling two sort of grand challenges. Grand challenge number one is to figure out how to get myself in a situation that works, assuming that if that's the causal chain, to get myself into a situation where I'm feeling productive and happy and validated and all of these things because clearly my response to the absence of those conditions is very profound. Secondly, how to modulate my response to these things so even if it's not perfect, my life isn't just completely disrupted and ruined. I haven't gotten any closer and it's frustrating. I think not being in a state of acute distress, I'm a little more willing to be charitable (both chuckle) about our process here.
THERAPIST: How's that? [00:10:48]
CLIENT: The capacity . . . there's a kind of empathy . . . the ability to be charitable, the ability to be patient, the ability to be able to defer gratification is in some sense a function of being in a sane state. I don't know if I'm communicating the way I would like to. [00:11:26]
THERAPIST: I guess in my mind part of the core issue is, actually, the way that when you are feeling more stuck and more frustrated, everything goes out the window. 
CLIENT: When I'm feeling more stuck and more frustrated. First of all, I kind of recoil or am resistant when you say that because it doesn't sound very descriptive. I know you were downplaying it, but that doesn't describe very well the way that it feels—"stuck and frustrated." I don't know if "going out the window" is the metaphor that I would choose. It's not like it's being discarded. It's like there's an elasticity that is not there. There's a kind of sense of where I am in time that's not there. It doesn't describe the experience very well. (pause) [00:13:56]
THERAPIST: Let's try to hash this out a little bit. To my mind in the last week or two in here it would seem to me, your view of what we've been doing has been that this really hasn't gotten you anywhere or helped at all, kind of as illustrated by how things have been in the last couple of months and how unable we've been through this to make things better. At least that's how it sounded to me. It would seem to me that you have in light of that been—
I'm talking about this process for the moment not because I think that it's the most important thing, I guess mostly because it's the thing I know firsthand (chuckles)—have been despairing, frustrated. [00:16:16]
CLIENT: Between despairing and frustrated is like a gulf.
THERAPIST: I guess I was imagining those to be sort of separate feelings you were having, like despairing that this hasn't helped and that it wouldn't help in the future, and also frustrated that it hasn't helped. Also, I think feeling gypped in a way—not by me personally you made it clear. Not like I haven't been trying or not like I haven't sort of worked hard, but more like gypped by the process. You come in. You've done your part. You make efforts to say what's on your mind, you show up every week, and yet you weren't getting the good things that were supposed to come out of that, such as real help when things are really bad as they have been over the last couple of months. I guess this has seemed to me sort of more or less how this has felt to you in recent weeks especially and one point that—yeah, I think it's important that you feel all that stuff—I think it's also important that your experience of all of that is pretty categorical. I'm not trying to say this to defend the treatment, I'm trying to say this to say something about how you function when you're in this kind of state, which is I think you throw out insight, progress at times when this has clearly been helpful. Again, I'm not saying this to try to defend this. I'm saying that because I think the act of your forgetting those things or discarding them is an important part of what happens to you. [00:19:35]
CLIENT: To be honest, you're doing both. No?
THERAPIST: No. No. If this has fundamentally not helped, I really would much rather know that. 
CLIENT: So what I'm calling "lack of elasticity" you're calling "categorical cognition behavior" or something. You're saying "categorical" and I'm saying "inelastic", and I think we're talking about the same thing. The really curious thing is that the only thing that has changed between now and then is that negotiations with Jack and the Bank have moved forward—the only thing that has changed.
THERAPIST: Right. [00:20:38]
CLIENT: Somehow that's disturbing to me. It certainly explains my behavior over the last twenty years. (chuckles)
THERAPIST: How so?
CLIENT: I haven't done the one thing that I have done repeatedly this time. I have not quite done that this time. I have withdrawn and I have found it much more difficult to work and to do the things that I know that I need to be doing, but I haven't left. Not being able to work was always a prelude to leaving saying, "I'm really scared. I don't know what I'm going to do. I'm afraid that I'm going to hurt myself. I'm afraid I'm going to do X, Y or Z. I need to go back West," or, "I need to leave." I haven't quite done that. I've been going into the office. I've been showing up at my cubicle. I haven't been working (chuckles) especially well. The one time when somebody wanted something from me, I did it. I haven't been enormously productive but I've been showing up. So that has changed, but everything else is exactly the same and [ ]. (crosstalk at 00:22:09) 
THERAPIST: My read on that is that, as a result of some bad and demeaning things that happened a couple of months ago at work, you have sort of, again, become inelastic or categorical.
CLIENT: What specific "bad and demeaning" thing? [00:22:59]
THERAPIST: I guess there were a few. The one was Phil talking about leaving. Another was your being told that there wasn't the right kind of position for you. I think there was something else that I'm not remembering clearly that you mentioned last week. Those were things that came at about the same time . . . 
CLIENT: The cubicle. The eight months in the cubicle.
THERAPIST: Yes. That heralded all of this. I think, in response to those things, you've become I guess you could say inelastic or categorical—those words don't describe it very fully, but I'll go with them for the moment—about your relationship with that institution in a way that I think has a lot to do with your shutting down. In other words, things like them paying your salary or the things Phil has done that have been helpful or supportive, or ways that they have valued you. If inconsistently, if not as they should have, clearly. But I think there have also been times when they've really valued you and been excited about you and wanted to make some commitments to you and stuff like that. I think you lose hold of those things and you're all of a sudden in a workplace where you've always been demeaned and never been valued and I think this is your feeling. [00:25:27]
CLIENT: I guess that's not the experience of it somehow. I don't quite know how to describe it. In some ways, that's more a sophisticated analysis than I'm really comfortable with—really capable of, rather. I don't know. I'm not processing at that level. That requires something. (pause) I'm thinking of this state. I can remember it because it was yesterday. I remember it like it was yesterday. I'm sitting there and I'm like, "God. I shouldn't be engaging in this kind of compulsive surfing behavior. People will see it and they will think that I'm not working, which I'm not. I need to hide this, and yet I can't stop engaging in it. I need to be doing acts but I can't quite bring to mind what it is that I need to be doing. I can't bring it to mind. I can't bring it to mind. I can't bring it to mind." This thought recurs over and over. "They see that I'm not working." This thought occurs over and over. [00:27:18]
THERAPIST: What you're more conscious of is you're not reacting to not being able to work and you're worried about other people finding out about it.
CLIENT: This level of abstraction that you're talking about . . . I don't know. I don't have any contact with it, so it's a totally [ex-less fact] (ph at 00:27:49) of reconstruction. I'm aware of annoyance at Phil when I have to carry these 40 boxes and fill up the cubicle that I fought for eight months for. I'm aware of that annoyance, but this very well developed bill of particulars, distorted though it may be or incomplete at the very least though it may be, I don't have any access to. That might be the case. It sounds plausible that it would be the case. It's a reasonable analysis of the situation, but it's really not something that I have any direct evidence for. [00:28:39]
THERAPIST: You don't feel it?
CLIENT: I don't feel it. Let's make the analogy to our interaction explicit. Last week I felt annoyed at you. I also felt this distress. I guess I was able to articulate more kind of developed analysis of the story that we're describing, but my immediate sensation was real pain, significant and emotional pain and some—anger is not quite the right word—but some resentment is closer of the process, the process that was not alleviating the pain. [00:29:44]
THERAPIST: This is so interesting because the thing that strikes me as you say that—and I can see a history to those in our interactions—is that in a way I kind of hear you saying, "I'm basically hurting in these situations. I'm worried. I'm hurting. Yeah, I feel resentful, but mostly I'm suffering." And—you're not saying this but I'm inferring—there is also like, "and you're kind of giving me these theories about what's going on and, yeah, okay, maybe they're right, but hey. I'm hurting over here. Sometimes it feels like you're forgetting about that and you're not really speaking to my immediate emotional experience. You may have more or less good ideas about what's going on, but it's not what I'm feeling and you're sort of failing to speak to or deal with the way I'm so troubled and upset right now." The thing I find so striking about that is that in some ways it's so much the opposite of how you can be at other times, where you're kind of in your head and abstract about things and so distant from the feelings. [00:31:29]
CLIENT: So is this self-critique your contention?
THERAPIST: No. No. I'm not even going that far. I'm just sort of at the moment struck by the dichotomy. I think there are other ways that I'm getting pulled into the other side of it, but I'm not intending to say that in a way that blames you. I could be aware of that, which I haven't been. 
CLIENT: It's not even a question of—I don't feel blamed exactly. It's more like (sigh) . . . yeah. Anyway.
THERAPIST: Yes. I guess what's evident is that how you've been feeling is like sort of the part that's coming in as hurting and suffering and struggling and wants to look at that, speak about it, have it understood, have it taken seriously, and that isn't so connected or integrated with ideas or models about what's going on. [00:32:48]
CLIENT: On a purely practical level, you can see why I can't work.
THERAPIST: Yes I can. You can't think.
CLIENT: You can see why I can't work. These two aspects of my personality and thought and being are completely un-integrated. 
THERAPIST: They're really not talking to each other.
CLIENT: How can I possibly work in that state?
THERAPIST: Sure. You're just upset and anxious and don't have access to your thought or your capacity to think and figure things out. That's terrifying.
CLIENT: It's terrifying and the only thing that's allowed me to transition from one state to the other, from this really anguished and reflective state to this, is leaving. I've done it in a slightly orderly and less crazy way this time and yet it is, and yet it's not a completely non-crazy way a) and b) I can't keep doing that every year. [00:34:09]
THERAPIST: The only thing that is hard can kind of understand in a way is action. When somebody offers you something or when you just get away from the source of the pain, external source of pain, the only language it speaks is action and events.
CLIENT: I feel there is some insight there. I think the insight about this—I don't know—dichotomous response is important. I feel daunted. It feels pretty significant. 
THERAPIST: Of course it's significant. It has to be significant. I mean look what it's done to your life. I'm sure you're feeling terribly overwhelmed, like unsure how it's ever going to get any better.
CLIENT: Yeah. I am unsure how it's ever going to get any better. My sense is that to do career planning, to do the normal kinds of things that one does when one is trying to figure things out apparently in mid-career, I need to be in a kind of state where I have access to reflective capacity, meaning that I can't just be sitting in that cubicle and do the things that I need to do to plan the next year or ten years or twenty years.
THERAPIST: Sure, and you can't even work. [00:36:22]
CLIENT: So in some sense I have to take this consultancy just in order to plan, but that doesn't make any sense at some level. That doesn't make any sense at some level, so somehow I've pried it open by this long process of negotiation with Jack and then with Kevin and now with Robert and so on. I've somehow pried open this non-reflective, non-inelastic absolutist state. It can't be that I have to do that. That's an extreme life to go to, is it not?
THERAPIST: It is. It's sort of extreme coping that you kind of have to arrange things out in the world so you can feel better enough to be able to think a little bit. [00:37:24]
CLIENT: Maybe another way of thinking about it, of course, is that I've given myself an option—that the real issue is not so much one particular environment, but the sense of having no options, the sense of being totally dependent on this one workplace, on this one interaction. That's another possible explanation and I think it's not a bad one, so I've left myself in situations repeatedly if I reflect over the last three or four years, where I just did not have any options. I was just kind of "all in" on it, and what I've done over the last couple of weeks is I've given myself an option. As that option comes into view, I feel less nuts. [00:38:33]
THERAPIST: I have to imagine there's something about also feeling more wanted, treated better, the enthusiasm for you. There some [] (ph at 00:38:54) to each of these situations that the new option . . . there are promising things about the new option. They want you. They're talking to you. I imagine they have some enthusiasm or eagerness to you as opposed to how you feel where you are now.
CLIENT: Probably. I mean, they should. There's definitely some of that.
THERAPIST: [Partner should] (ph at 00:39:25), too. And in some way, [Partners] (ph at 00:39:26) does.
CLIENT: Yeah, I know. I know. Well, I mean, yeah. It's complicated. Yeah. Whatever. So, yes. I assent. I agree. [00:39:45]
THERAPIST: I think your point as well is that there is something additionally just about not being trapped.
CLIENT: That's the feeling! Trapped. Trapped is the word. Trapped. Trapped is the word of the day, the Sesame Street word of the morning. (both chuckle) That's what it feels like. I feel trapped. I feel trapped. (pause) [00:40:20]
THERAPIST: Well, and without options, in ways you are.
CLIENT: Without options, I am trapped.
THERAPIST: I assume you want to be eating and living around here. That's dramatic but—you know.
CLIENT: But I don't know how to make myself options. The normal course of things involves lots of options. It involves applications for work. It involves all of these things. Over the last month and a half, I don't know how measurably I've decreased my options, but I've decreased them some.
THERAPIST: We should stop for today. We'll talk more on Friday.
END TRANSCRIPT
