TRANSCRIPT OF AUDIO FILE:
______________________________________________________________________________
BEGIN TRANSCRIPT:
PATIENT: I was a little bit late getting there but it was at 4:30. She just these - read my labs and sign my physical. But you know it's Friday. And the woman at the counter - at first I was standing there like I always do. And she's like you have to sign in. So I signed in. So I'm waiting there like 10 minutes - 15 minutes. It's like 5:50 - 4:50 and she like screams my name at the top of my - her lungs even though I'm like standing like - sitting as far as you and I are.
So I go up there. And she says you know can I have your insurance card. And I said well I was just here but that's fine. And then I sit down and she goes - a little loud - she goes you know you're late for your appointment? And I said yes but she only has to sign my form and it wasn't really a scheduled appointment anyway. She just said to stop by after 4:30.
And then I sat there. And I was like - I found it really annoying you know for her to like scream out in front of - I mean I don't know any of those people. But I don't think it's right. So then I went over to her. Another nurse had explained what was going on. She remembered me from Friday. But I went over to her and I said you know I called the doctor. Because she knows I'm coming. And you know it's not - I don't know. I thought she said whenever. It's fine. You - as long as the doctor knows.
So then I waited another 15 minutes. It was like 5:05 before the doctor saw me. And then she said my measles - I don't have enough. They were checking to see what shots I'd had. And my measles is running low. So I had to get one of those. And I had to get a PPD. So I told her you know I said I'm really a big fan of the woman up front with the red hair. And I told her what happened. And she said there have been other complaints. And she probably wouldn't be working there very long. (Inaudible). And then I left.
COUNSELOR: So just as you were talking about it were you aware of any kind of like physical experience with this (inaudible).
PATIENT: Yeah. Well I was sitting there like antsy because I was angry.
COUNSELOR: So you're feeling kind of a little agitated? [2:04]
PATIENT: Right. And then.
COUNSELOR: I noticed your foot moving as you were talking.
PATIENT: I just sat there like glaring at her like this. I was like. I can't believe that you know this. And then when I went to get my actual shots from the nurse, she took a phone call from somebody and was like oh, let me take your name. And (inaudible) and I said you know I have a doctor's appointment that started 5 minutes ago three blocks away. And I would really just like this to happen quickly.
So I asked nicely. And I really wasn't upset at her that it took forever. But I kind of just wasn't nice to her anyway. Because I figured - and I was at her mercy. You know she could take another 20 minutes for my shot or I can just be nice. And having to wait another - run over here to Hyde and turning up to (inaudible) blocks and then I don't want to (inaudible). (laughs)
COUNSELOR: Well I noticed as you were describing you know you're feeling about anger that you kind of had a little shortness of breath or you weren't breathing so deeply. And you know you were a little more kind of animated as you talked.
PATIENT: Yeah. I mean I definitely don't think that shortness of breath is related to my coming here. It's definitely when I was talking. But I notice sometimes if I'm speaking - I don't know if that's always true. Sometimes I'll be talking fast. If I'm anxious I actually feel like I'm running out of breathe.
COUNSELOR: Do you feel like that now as you were describing the situation?
PATIENT: A little. But that's usually when it comes into my and I'm like why am I not breathing? (laughs) But.
COUNSELOR: When doesn't that usually happen that you have that awareness of?
PATIENT: Usually when I (inaudible) I think. Not like actually running. But if I feel like I'm rushed. Then I'll try and - so I don't think it's just when I'm anxious. I think that that's more of a time thing. And I think that if I stayed all out of breath I'd save time.
COUNSELOR: Are you aware of doing that at all here when you're talking?
PATIENT: Not really. I recognize it when I'm doing it at work.
COUNSELOR: You do or you don't recognize? [4:20]
PATIENT: I mean that maybe I do it more often than I recognize. I have recognized myself doing it at work. Do you think I do it here?
COUNSELOR: Sometimes I get the feeling that you're kind of rushing to get to things. And I don't think you've done that in awhile. I mean there are moments where you kind of go into that and then sort of slow down. You feel pressure to kind of say.
PATIENT: Like I was depressed last week. I thought that time went by very slowly. But most of the time I feel like talking, talking, talking, time's up. Not extremely sure but it goes by quickly. And last week I was like wow we still have time left. Maybe it was kind of having an agenda. I didn't feel pressured. I don't know.
My doctor wrote me a prescription for Ambien. And I haven't filled it yet. I might sleep but I'm changing pharmacies. I just haven't filled it. But I was - last - yesterday I didn't go to work and got up - had trouble sleeping the night before and got up a little later. And then I was really tired like five. My husband and I had been running errands and I was lying down. And I was like oh I want to take a nap. And then I said well I won't take a nap because maybe I won't fall asleep tonight.
So I took a shower and I don't know. Did some other things. And then we were just watching TV at eight. And by nine I was totally wide awake. Hadn't had any caffeine. I don't - I don't know why. And then I just was alert until like twelve when I just kind of locked myself in another room that's really quiet. And I didn't go to sleep.
COUNSELOR: So you're still having trouble sleeping?
PATIENT: Yeah. I don't know. Just.
COUNSELOR: Is it consistent like across the (inaudible)?
PATIENT: I think. I think that I have to be like - well I noticed that I get tired earlier in the evening. And I won't go to sleep for whatever reason. Like it's too early or I want to watch a TV show or whatever. And then I'm just awake. And I have to be like really tired. Or if I've been out you know with some friends and maybe had a few drinks then it's easier for me to just come home and fall asleep. But I don't want to be in a habit of having to drink at home just to fall asleep. [Especially when I'm taking medication] (ph). (laughs)
No. I just felt like maybe - I don't know. Why is it that I'm more alert the later it gets? Even though I'm tired. Like I was tired. I wanted to go to sleep but I couldn't.
COUNSELOR: When do you start feeling tired? When is that period where you feel tired but it's too early for you to go to sleep yet? [7:06]
PATIENT: Like during my regular work day you know like seven or eight when I get home. And on the weekends I'm almost guaranteed tired enough to - I mean maybe I feel tired enough you know too but I really can't sleep. So I got to brush it off. Not here but you know during the week. (laughs) But on the weekends you know I always try and take a nap if I have time. And it's not like I'm more active on the weekends. I'm more active during the week.
COUNSELOR: And do you shift your sleep cycle on the weekends at all? Like do you stay up later or wake up later?
PATIENT: I mean Sunday night I was awake later. But that's a pattern for me. You know on Sunday nights I. And I thought that it would be different because I was taking Monday off. And I only had to do like one thing. I just put it off until today anyway. But it wasn't because then I had more trouble sleeping last night too. I think I went to sleep around one. But considering that I had so little sleep Sunday night I should have gone to sleep earlier.
I mean I - once and now I'm noticing I always use to be once I was asleep you know I would wake up if the phone rings and I'd fall back to sleep until like twelve - one. But now I'm noticing that especially on the weekends if my phone rings or something earlier than I'm awake which never use to happen to me. It happens to my husband. Like he goes to sleep early and wakes up early and can't fall back to sleep.
But now I wake up at like 9 o'clock which is unheard of for me. And then I'm awake. Or if my alarm goes off at seven then I'm laying there thinking instead of normally I would just fall back asleep. Never I remember my alarm going off.
COUNSELOR: What do you make of that?
PATIENT: I thought maybe because Tony use to give me a really hard time for sleeping in on the weekends. And then we got all of this house stuff going on. So I think he use to make me feel guilty like you know he wants to do all of this house stuff. He wants me to be included but I won't get up. So you know he can't get anything done or he can't get it done without me. So then he goes I'm leaving. And then I have like 10 minutes to get up and get ready. [9:33]
So we do that on the weekends but you know Saturday we weren't doing that. Sunday we weren't doing that because we were - well kind of we were doing it. We were meeting the contractor. I think maybe I feel like anxious like I have to get that stuff done on the weekends. But Monday I could have slept in.
(Phone ringing)
PATIENT: And I couldn't. I had taken you know like over the counter sleeping pill Sunday. Yeah. Sunday night because I - actually I have trouble sleeping when I had taken that sleeping pill. At like 12 o'clock on Sunday. So I still didn't sleep until 3 o'clock. And then I was really groggy all day Monday. And that wore off early afternoon. And then I was tired. And then I was awake at night.
COUNSELOR: So this difficulty of sleeping has gotten worse over the last little while, right?
PATIENT: Yeah.
COUNSELOR: Yeah.
PATIENT: Kind of (inaudible).
COUNSELOR: Since coming back from your vacation I think you had said.
PATIENT: Yeah.
COUNSELOR: That's still just as bad or it's getting worse?
PATIENT: I feel like it's getting worse. But mainly it's just as bad. I use to have like a couple of nights a week where I was like exhausted. And I would (coughs) go to sleep like 10 o'clock because I could not keep my eyes open. And that's not happening anymore. Like last night was twelve. I was in another room at twelve. (Inaudible) like until one. That would be my average - 1 or 2 o'clock.
COUNSELOR: One or 2 o'clock is your average per say for getting to sleep?
PATIENT: For getting to sleep. Yeah.
COUNSELOR: So how many hours do you usually sleep?
PATIENT: I might wake up at seven. (Inaudible). Like I use to on the weekends. I would - I could seriously sleep until 2 pm. And if I - I know my body. If I'm not getting enough sleep I just get sick. It's just like Tony knows now that every once in awhile I just need that sleeping in because I'm cranky. And then I get a cold. But I haven't been getting sick. And I haven't been able to stay asleep. [11:44]
COUNSELOR: So you haven't been getting sleep but you haven't been able to sleep in the way you use to? Because of the - what you're doing with.
PATIENT: Because my phone rings at nine. I have my cell phone and somebody leaves like a stupid message. Tony will bring me the phone because he doesn't know who it is - if it's important or not. Then I'll not answer it because I'm not in the mood. You know I'll just let the message go. Then I'll convince myself that I really you know need to check the messages. And then I can just go back to sleep. So I'll check the message. And then I will like lay there.
And I get - I can usually because if it's at day time do anything and I'll fall back to sleep. I can have a conversation with my mother and fall back to sleep. You know? So.
COUNSELOR: I was wondering you know going back to where we started with today about your bringing in an incident that involved you getting angry what it was like for you. Have you been thinking about that over the course of the week?
PATIENT: Being angry. No. No. I'm trying to think of what I think of when I'm not sleeping. And it's like I thought I had given you examples I think about what I have to do the next day. But it's not even - at times like that I'll write it down. And if I'm upset about something I can understand.
But now it's like not anything in particular. You know oh well. You know not saying I was thinking like what colors would look nice in the upstairs which is so not a priority to me. And I was just thinking about that because I didn't really want to get myself worked up on crying or something. And I wasn't even like anxious about it. The paint is pink. So. (laughs)
So. But I felt a little anxious you know at night. That was keeping me up. But I was trying to prevent myself from focusing on one thing because then I'll - like on the time when I'm upset and I'm thinking about something before bed I'll just replay the whole thing. You know say I want to talk to my boss about something. And then I'll replay what I'm going to say. And what made me so angry. And then I'll redo it again. But then I just want to write it down so I can go to sleep.
COUNSELOR: And so that helps you to actually get to sleep?
PATIENT: Um-hum. But that's only when I'm like really.
COUNSELOR: It's weird. I have to say you know we only have a few minutes left but I feel like I - I feel like we're talking in this way that just doesn't - like we're not fully. Like I don't feel fully in the room with you today. And part of it may be that you know we started out late. But I - I just have this feeling that we're kind of - we touched on the anger piece. We've been touching on it in the last couple of sessions. And I know that that's a difficult area for you to kind of go into. It is for most people. And I'm wondering if that's what this about. If that's you know and. [14:45]
PATIENT: If the anger is contributing to why I'm not sleeping. Or why you're feeling that way?
COUNSELOR: Possibly. But I'm wondering if it's uncomfortable for you to really go back - like to talk in more detail about you know you're feelings of anger or what you've experienced over the course of the week. You know given our previous session where we talked a little more about your feelings towards your mother-in-law and you know Tony and.
PATIENT: I don't - it is hard for me to talk about my anger. But I think it's just hard because I don't really know what I do with it. You know and Tony and his mother got into an argument. Did I tell you that she asked me? No. She asked me this weekend. I was upset with her. Because I wasn't calling her. And I said no. Because I really didn't feel like explaining. Because I had been thinking about like what would I tell her? I'm upset that she didn't like the gift. Because I'm really not. I'm upset with her because she lied to me.
And so when she asked me it was very like cold. And I just said yeah no ripples (ph). I've just been very busy. And then I told Tony you know that I just don't understand why your parents are compelled to like talk to us all of the time. And then Tony and his mom get into a big argument because she was giving him all of this advice about why not to choose this tile. Why not to do this. And he was like you're crazy. What kind of advice are you giving me?
And I thought about it. And I had called my mom about something. And I was like I'm angry with them because they have the worst timing when it comes to calls. And I don't appreciate feeling obligated to call them. And then even my mom said well you know you shouldn't say anything to them because you guys really have a good relationship.
So what you and I had talked about like how it's difficult for me to actually say something to them because you know? I happen to hold grudges. And I'm sure they would (laughs) remember if I said something.
I mean I can't even - I can tell my mom not to call as often. But I told Tony I said I think you should tell your mother that you don't need to speak to her that often. And then he said Tony's dad is upset because he feels he's not involved in the house - the planning of the house. Then I looked at him. I said well it's not his house. And I said I thought you talked to your dad often. And I said would you like me to talk to your dad about?
I love talking to Tony's dad. He's always very insightful and very straight forward. So I don't feel like I'm getting lied to. I might not like what he says but at least it's honest. And then I said well why don't we invite him over here sometime?
COUNSELOR: I guess I want to check in with you on the anger piece. And just to make sure that you don't feel pressured in any way to kind of act on it and say something directly to your mother-in-law. Because that certainly not the direction that I was going in. Just to check in with you. Is that how you were feeling or? [17:48]
PATIENT: I kind of am confused between whether you want me to explore like explain how I feel when I get angry or explore the options of how I handle my anger. And I get the feeling that sometimes you think it would be better instead of me just dealing with it you know like taking all of it that you think that I should do something. Which doesn't mean like telling my mother-in-law that I don't like her. But sometimes I get the impression that you think I should be assertive about how I handle things on my own you would say.
COUNSELOR: Actually what I struggle with is really experiencing your anger here. Regardless of how you choose to actually deal with it in terms of the - you know the relationships in your life. I hear you talking about it but I - it's like I don't experience it from you. And I'm wondering where it is. Like I sensed a little bit of it today and I imagine the reason that I don't experience it is because it's really scary for you or it's really uncomfortable for you or it's really difficult to go to that place.
And so I respect that. And at the same time I want to encourage you to explore that here in a safe kind of environment. And I understand that you might be confused about what that means at the same time.
PATIENT: Okay.
COUNSELOR: But it has nothing to do with you challenging your relationships outside of here or taking a more serious stance with anyone. Absolutely not.
PATIENT: Okay. Because I kind of get the feeling like - I mean I understand where you're coming from. It makes more sense. But I was feeling like - yeah I guess I was confused between whether it was me explaining it properly or you not agreeing with the way I was handling the situation.
COUNSELOR: Yeah.
PATIENT: I don't know. I mean when I get upset at Tony I just don't say much about you know. And then I - or I'll just say whatever is in my mind and it doesn't make any sense. You know because he'll say like what? Just (inaudible). [20:21]
COUNSELOR: Well we - we actually need to stop for today. But it you know it's - it's something that I would encourage you to sort of take more of a risk here kind of expressing feelings of anger. And I - I say that knowing that it's difficult because - for many reasons it's difficult. And so you'll just kind of see how it goes. But I don't you know want to leave you with the feeling of that you have to do anything else out of here.
PATIENT: Okay.
COUNSELOR: Because that's not my intentions.
PATIENT: Alright.
COUNSELOR: Alright?
PATIENT: Um-hum.
COUNSELOR: Okay.
PATIENT: I thought that I would be angry when I got here because I was so angry about being late and this lady.
COUNSELOR: And you did express some - you did visibly look upset with the situation as you described it. And yeah.
PATIENT: We haven't really talked about - I mean I think it would be hard for me to express anger unless that - the person I was angry with was in front of me.
COUNSELOR: That's also difficult to do.
PATIENT: Yeah. It is. And I think probably you and I don't argue because. I was thinking like you're that person for me. So I wouldn't want to be angry at you even if I was because you know.
COUNSELOR: Well we can talk more about what your concerns about how I would experience you maybe if you were to express some real feelings of anger - some real strong feelings of anger. You have expressed feelings of anger here. But you know we can talk a little bit more about that the next time.
PATIENT: Okay.
COUNSELOR: Okay?
PATIENT: (Inaudible).
COUNSELOR: Yeah.
PATIENT: Any (inaudible) surveys?
COUNSELOR: I was supposed to get you some of those.
PATIENT: Is this session number 20?
COUNSELOR: This is session number 20. Yes.
PATIENT: And then I have one at the office.
COUNSELOR: Do you?
PATIENT: Um-hum.
COUNSELOR: Okay. Let me make myself a note so I - I need to sign for next week. Okay. I will definitely do that. I'll just bill you next time.
PATIENT: Okay. Sorry I was late.
COUNSELOR: That's okay. I mean that happens. Unfortunately if I didn't have anyone after you know this session I would have extended this one. So.
PATIENT: I would have been more sad if we hadn't met today. Then I would have been angry.
COUNSELOR: Okay.
PATIENT: Oops. That's how you could have gotten me angry. (laughs) You should have said we can't meet today. Then I would have been.
COUNSELOR: We'll have opportunities then I'm sure. Alright?
PATIENT: Okay.
COUNSELOR: Take care.
PATIENT: Bye.
COUNSELOR: Bye.
END TRANSCRIPT
