TRANSCRIPT OF AUDIO FILE:
______________________________________________________________________________
BEGIN TRANSCRIPT:
CLIENT: So I've got a day from hell coming.
THERAPIST: Oh, I'm sorry to hear that.
CLIENT: I have two closings.
THERAPIST: This is today?
CLIENT: Today. One is supposed to be at 4:30. I've got all the docs, everything. That's all set. Another closing which was supposed to be 11:00 is now 12:30. I don't have docs. They're waiting on a transcript from the IRS of the borrower's tax return, which who knows when that's going to come. Once they get that, they're going to get me the docs. I've got everybody showing up at the registry at 12:30, and my gut is telling me that I'm not going to have docs by then.
[00:01:00]
THERAPIST: Right.
CLIENT: And I asked in an e-mail for the seller's attorney's cell phone number so I can call him and let him know, so he doesn't show up at the registry.
THERAPIST: You mean if you don't have all the stuff and can't close?
CLIENT: Right. And he didn't give it to me [when he responded in an e-mail]. So I don't know what to do. 
THERAPIST: So what's likely to happen is you won't have the stuff you need to close, and you won't have a way of quickly getting in touch with the seller.
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: So the seller will show up, and you and the buyer won't and [no ability for closing]. 
CLIENT: The closing is going to be pushed back. Hopefully it happens. 
[00:02:03]
THERAPIST: I see.
CLIENT: But that pushes back the 4:30.
THERAPIST: Right.
CLIENT: It's just, you know, a long day.
THERAPIST: Yeah, and having to push stuff back, I would imagine, makes people unhappy. 
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: And makes you stressed out—- 
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: —- having to run around and like—-
CLIENT: At least Jess is letting me use the office this morning.
THERAPIST: Oh, that's good.
CLIENT: Because it's in the area.
THERAPIST: That is downtown, yeah. So that also puts you like, especially on a Friday afternoon, probably an hour from your closing, right?
CLIENT: Yeah, it's going to be shitty traffic. I know—- it's my CPA who is doing the re-fi, so I know I can call her and, you know.
THERAPIST: This one is a re-fi, you mean?
CLIENT: Yeah, it's a re-fi, so it's just—- 
[00:03:02]
I'm just kind of tired of it, you know? It's like this fucking closing has been on the books for—- it should've closed Tuesday. 
THERAPIST: Oh, this is the one from Tuesday.
CLIENT: It's just, you know, I don't know who's to blame. Partially my client, probably partially the lender, you know. But it just puts me in a position of, you know, I don't know why they can't give me the docs subject to getting these transcripts, and why they wait until the last second to get the transcripts. It's like they've had over a month to get these transcripts, you know. And I don't know how quickly the IRS responds, you know.
THERAPIST: Sure.
CLIENT: Do they fax them? Do they mail them? I mean, I'm just—- it's really putting a—-
[00:04:05]
THERAPIST: And who's responsible for the delay? Is it the mortgage people or the buyers themselves—- 
CLIENT: That's what I'm saying. I don't know. 
THERAPIST: Oh, okay.
CLIENT: I don't know if the buyer is slow getting their stuff to—- 
THERAPIST: I see.
CLIENT: —- the mortgage company. I know the mortgage company is really busy, you know.
THERAPIST: Sure, with rates so low.
CLIENT: So I figure I'm going to try to call the attorney first thing this morning, and give him a heads-up that I'm not positive we're going to close at 12:30, can they push back the walk-through. I'm just tired of being put in this position, you know? It's a lot of stress. 
THERAPIST: What's the latest you can do a closing?
[00:04:57]
CLIENT: I don't know. I mean, that's the point. I've got this other closing hanging out there, you know, and it's like at what point do I pull the plug? I don't know. I don't know what to do, you know? It's Friday night, so the re-fi—- they've got to go—- the kid is playing football, so at 7:00 they're going to play football. So it's just like—- 
THERAPIST: I guess what I'm wondering is (inaudible at 00:05:29), can you put the midday closing off until like 7:30 or 8:00?
CLIENT: The attorney is not going to want to do—- I mean, I can see if he'll sign on Monday morning, you know, and go on record. I'll show up at his office. (pause) It's just a pain in the ass, you know? To be the one who is constantly like "Oh, we're not ready, we're not ready."
[00:06:02]
THERAPIST: I see.
CLIENT: (pause) It's my old—- it's Ray's company that's doing the—- and they just don't give a shit, I think. They're not very helpful. It's just no one knows. No one knows when this transcript is going to come, or at least they can't tell me. I ought to try and call the mortgage company first, and then call the attorney. (pause) It's just—- (pause)
[00:07:20]
I don't know. I'm just bummed. Just really—- (pause) This re-fi has been hanging out there for months, and it's like the day it fucking has to close, it's like—- you know, I've had no closings all fucking week, you know, and then—- 
THERAPIST: Right. (pause) Right, like you could've picked the worst time all week.
CLIENT: No one asked me when to close. It's like "Is it okay if we close Friday?" (pause)
[00:08:15]
I mean, who knows, maybe they'll come this morning and everything will be fine. But my gut is telling me that's not going to happen. (pause) My stomach is just, you know, grinding, nauseous. (pause) 
THERAPIST: It seems to me this is a situation that often makes you feel very anxious and very shitty, which is the one where you're completely helpless and at the mercy of a bunch of other people. 
CLIENT: It's my job, you know?
[00:09:08]
THERAPIST: And in spite of that, you're the one who is going to look and feel like shit when they don't do the things they're supposed to do. So they're the ones who need to make things happen, but you're the one who it reflects on. 
CLIENT: (pause) Yeah. 
THERAPIST: (pause) And I guess—- it seems to me sometimes there is something there that you could do or could have done that you really didn't want to do or deal with. And other times not.
[00:10:13]
Like for example, from a while ago, there was something with Jess and the kids and I was like "Why couldn't you do it this way?" and you were like "Because if I did it that way, I'd have to make a schedule, and I don't want to make a schedule." So in that case, you felt powerless but you weren't actually powerless. You were actually making a decision, although it didn't feel that way at the time. It felt like you were helpless. Then there are other times where you are just helpless. Do you know which one this is?
CLIENT: I'm completely helpless. 
THERAPIST: Uh huh.
CLIENT: I mean, I guess I could have tried to see if they could've done the re-fi another day, but the way these things work, they usually—- you've got to close, you know, because of the rate locks. Had there been a choice of multiple days, they would've said "Cameron, you have up until such a date to close."
THERAPIST: I see. For the rates [for that day].
[00:11:12]
CLIENT: So usually when they say you're closing Friday, that means you're closing Friday. 
THERAPIST: I see.
CLIENT: And it's my CPA, and I don't want to say "Hey, you know, maybe you should try and sign these docs tomorrow with today's date." (chuckles) (inaudible at 00:11:31)
THERAPIST: Yeah.
CLIENT: I mean, I could say "Hey, do you want to sign these after the football game, if you feel up for it?" I mean, they're in the fives and they're going down to 3.625, so they're dropping a good chunk interest rate-wise. (pause)
[00:12:03]
Part of it is I don't want to waste this attorney's day having him sit at the registry, waiting for me to show up with the docs. He's in downtown area. (pause) So I'm going to try to call him this morning and see how flexible his schedule is because I know he's got something at 11:00. (pause) But I have to be proactive in some sense, you know. (pause) 
So it's like I'm making a good chunk of money today, you know. (chuckles) It's just fucking kill me to do it. I feel like it's just taking a piece of me. (pause)
[00:13:10]
I couldn't even go to practice last night. I was just—- I was getting the estate plan signed and dealing with another fucking purchase and sale agreement that was fucked up at the last moment, you know. It's just been fucking crazy. It's just been crazy. You know, I put this provision in it for a buyer that has the seller represent that everything has been done with permits, that there's no open permits and they've done everything correctly, and the seller wanted to remove that provision. I told my buyers that it's probably because they've done some work without a permit.
THERAPIST: Right.
[00:14:02]
CLIENT: I said "You can ask." There's no obligation for a seller to tell you things unless it's material that would change your mind whether you buy it or not. Like a train running through the house at 2:00 in the morning, that's probably something they should disclose. I said "But you've got to ask them" and they asked them, and of course they built the deck without a permit, which they were fine with, so we went and signed. But it's like I'm on the phone and I never would've made it to practice anyway.
THERAPIST: Yeah.
CLIENT: Plus I've been feeling, you know, I've been coughing. Today has been much better, but I've just had this awful cough.
THERAPIST: Oh gosh.
CLIENT: And just lung boogers coming up all of the time. So I've been blowing off practice. I'm so out of shape I haven't done—- I'm just out of shape and I have a tournament coming up, not this weekend but next—- two tournaments next weekend.
[00:15:09]
I'm just, you know, not ready and not in shape, and my back is hurting me and I've gotten fat. (pause) It's been tough waking up every morning with this cough and the whole puking thing. It's kind of like right now, it's like am I nauseous because I have boogers in my stomach or is just because I'm worried about today, you know? 
THERAPIST: It sounds more like you're worried about today, I'm pretty sure.
CLIENT: I mean, I haven't really had the Prozac. (pause) The nauseousness seems to have gone away. So I don't know. It just kills me. It really does. (pause)
[00:16:48]
But at least my buyer doesn't have to move in right away. I know he wants to get people in there to do work. So, I don't know. (pause) I'm almost tempted to tell the seller "Let's just sign on Monday morning." (pause) "Could the docs wait a day? Sign the registry." They live in (inaudible at 00:17:27) so the closing—- I would go to their house. Their office is downtown. [It's a crappy day]. I'm just tired of it. (pause) My audit went fine. That was good.
[00:17:46]
THERAPIST: Oh good. That's a relief.
CLIENT: (inaudible at 00:17:50). No issues, which is always good. They could've found issues if they worked hard enough. (chuckles) The only thing I was doing that I'm not supposed to be doing is using the account for non-conveyancing. You know, putting other client funds in there. The only reason they want you to have the account specifically for conveyancing is so they can audit it, so you're not, you know—- 
THERAPIST: I see.
CLIENT: So they don't see other clients' stuff, you know.
THERAPIST: It's sort of a more technical thing that you're doing, rather than a—- (pause)
[00:18:53]
CLIENT: It's going to rain all fucking day. (pause) Shit. (pause) And also, it's like when I get the docs, I've got to get my HUD approved, my settlement statement approved. So it's like even getting the docs, I've got to send over the HUD and try and get that approved so I can get it out the door. Or roll the dice and, you know—- (phone ringing) And the bank keeps calling me. I don't know why they keep calling me. They've been persistent. 
[00:19:47]
THERAPIST: They miss you. 
CLIENT: Yeah. They miss my money. They always call at inopportune moments though. It's never like—- like right now. It's not like I can pick up the phone now. They never leave a message. They left a message once, I think. I deleted it. (pause) 
[00:20:46]
I've got to remember to go get some stamps. It requires that you give them a prepaid envelope to return the docs. So I've got to remember to do that. 
THERAPIST: There's a post office right there.
CLIENT: Yeah, that's what I'm saying. I've got to go. I've been planning. 
THERAPIST: Yeah.
CLIENT: I've got so many little things, you know. 
THERAPIST: Right. Hard to keep track of all of them. (pause)
[00:22:05]
CLIENT: Yeah, I want to puke. (pause) I'm taking Ian to the game tomorrow. 
THERAPIST: Is there anything else that—- 
CLIENT: Go ahead. Change the subject.
THERAPIST: —- (chuckles) that comes to mind about this kind of situation and what it's like? Is there anything it reminds you of?
CLIENT: Just, you know, I used to, when I would get really upset and angry, you know—- 
THERAPIST: Yeah.
CLIENT: —- and when stuff would go wrong, I would always say, you know, "I just can't win. I just can't win." 
THERAPIST: Uh huh.
CLIENT: And this is one of those moments, you know. I'm not angry and banging on stuff and upset—- 
THERAPIST: Right.
[00:23:07]
CLIENT: But, I mean, it's that type of moment where I feel like I just can't win, you know. Just—- I don't know. I mean—-
THERAPIST: Like you're kind of fucked any which way?
CLIENT: Kind of, you know. But I just can't get things to go my way, you know. I can't get things to—- even when things, you know—- I've got two closings.
THERAPIST: Right, right. In theory, that would be good.
CLIENT: Yeah, you know? I mean—- a big chunk of money, you know.
THERAPIST: Right.
CLIENT: It's just—- 
THERAPIST: Right, but then it's going to be complete hell.
CLIENT: Yeah. 
THERAPIST: It can't just be—- it feels like it can't just be easy. It can't just go your way. 
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: You can't just get the two closings, be happy about it, have them go relatively smoothly, feel fine about it and be done.
CLIENT: Yeah.
[00:24:02]
THERAPIST: Go home rich and happy.
CLIENT: Well, rich isn't a word I would use, but—- 
THERAPIST: Yeah, yeah. There's got to be some kind of catch or cost.
CLIENT: (pause) Got to drop the soccer balls off. Got to go get my—- I'm out of Klonopin. Nice day to be—- 
THERAPIST: Not a good day to be—- 
CLIENT: —- out of Klonopin.
THERAPIST: Yeah.
CLIENT: Hopefully she called it in yesterday. She wasn't even in the office and she was like "If you wanted me—- " The problem was it was from a prescription that the other doctor wrote.
THERAPIST: Yeah.
CLIENT: So I couldn't just have them call her and have them reauthorize it.
THERAPIST: I see.
CLIENT: So—- (pause) 
[00:25:13]
My CVS app hasn't been working. [No, it's working. Maybe I need to update]. (pause) Oh crap. (pause) So hopefully she called that in. That's one less thing I'll have to worry about. I'm kind of glad I called her first thing yesterday. (pause) She actually picked up the phone. (pause) 
[00:26:15]
Nothing ready for pick up. (pause) [She didn't call it in]. One more thing I've got to worry about today. How many days can I go without freaking out? (pause) That's what I mean by "I can't win," you know?
THERAPIST: Yep.
CLIENT: I called her two or three days ago. It's not like I waited until the last second.
THERAPIST: Right. I see. It's kind of like it doesn't matter what you do. (pause)
[00:27:42]
Does it feel like it's something to do with you? In other words, when you say like "I can't win," and clearly other people out there are winning, does it feel as though it's somehow inherently you?
CLIENT: Is it me or some outside force.
THERAPIST: I'm asking what it feels like. I'm not asking—- 
CLIENT: I don't know. I mean, it feels more like just the world around me is making it, you know—- 
THERAPIST: Yeah, impossible.
CLIENT: I think I've got too much of an ego to blame myself. (chuckles) (pause) There can't be anything wrong with me.
THERAPIST: You've always maintained that. 
[00:28:44]
CLIENT: (chuckles)
THERAPIST: You really haven't. I don't think that's the issue. (chuckles)
CLIENT: I don't know, but that's how I kind of feel in the moment.
THERAPIST: Sure. That's what I'm asking, yeah.
CLIENT: I'm sure there's going to be some stress times today, you know.
THERAPIST: Yeah. It's pretty clear there would be.
CLIENT: (pause) And then there's part of me that's like, are they even so certain that they're going to get the transcript today, you know. They can't get the transcript at 4:00 and shoot me doc in the next, you know. And the rate lock is today. (pause) 
[00:30:09]
THERAPIST: And they just don't care that you have another closing.
CLIENT: No. "They" being the lender? No one cares though, you know.
THERAPIST: It's your schedule.
CLIENT: People ask me when the closing is, and I'm almost the last one to know. (pause) It's going to be, you know, just a busy weekend where I just want to veg, you know. I've got soccer, the game, the football on Sunday. (pause)
[00:31:00]
I mean the game should be relaxing, but Ian is going to be asking questions every two seconds. I'll snap on him at some point, "just shut up." No, I've been pretty good about that.
THERAPIST: Good.
CLIENT: snapped on him in the—- well, when my car was ready, I kind of got a little frustrated with him to get moving, you know. (pause) I apologized. He was so excited anyway that he's probably forgot about it. 
THERAPIST: How's the car?
CLIENT: It's good. You know, one of the things that happened on my old car was, you know, there's this little button on your seatbelt that stops the buckle part from going all the way down to the floor.
THERAPIST: Okay.
[00:31:56]
CLIENT: When you reach it and grab it, it's right here and not down here.
THERAPIST: Yeah.
CLIENT: Well that had broken on my seatbelt in the Subaru, and I had tried putting things in there to stop it from going, and he just kept falling out, you know. So I'm used to reaching all the way down, so I reach all the way down and the seatbelt is not there. It's right where it's supposed to be. (chuckles) I'm getting close to 28 miles to the gallon. It's about five miles to the gallon better than it was.
THERAPIST: That's great.
CLIENT: I'm glad I ended up buying this and not the Subaru.
THERAPIST: Good.
CLIENT: It's going to save me some money.
THERAPIST: Great.
CLIENT: (pause) Oh boy. (pause) 
[00:34:34]
THERAPIST: So also—- (pause) I think I'm clear about what's stressful about today, that you—- it's a total crapshoot when and if you're going to get the documents to do the closing that's supposed to happen at 12:30. And it's very likely to run into the closing that's supposed to happen at 4:30, an hour away. (pause)
[00:35:30]
You're the one who, at least partly I guess, comes across looking like a fuck up or having (voices overlapping).
CLIENT: I don't know. I mean, I don't know that I get blamed for it as much as it's just, you know, the brunt of it falls on me, you know.
THERAPIST: In terms of running around and dealing with the hassle of—- 
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: —- getting this document from that one, and getting in touch with this one—- 
CLIENT: I mean, everybody is inconvenienced and everybody is put out, you know.
THERAPIST: Right.
CLIENT: So it's not like I'm the only one. But the most pressure is on me, you know. I don't feel like I'm being blamed—- 
THERAPIST: I see.
CLIENT: —- because the other attorney knows it's somewhat out of my control.
THERAPIST: Oh, okay.
CLIENT: You know. I mean, he's a real estate attorney. He knows how this stuff goes.
THERAPIST: Sure. Yeah, now this is what I'm asking about. What's the—- 
[00:36:29]
CLIENT: It's just going—- just—- I don't know. There's going to be the sitting around waiting for documents, just killing me, just, you know. I don't know. 
THERAPIST: I mean, there's clearly a bunch of stuff that's like stressful as all hell about this. It's the not looking bad though, I guess, for the other attorney or for anybody's client. It's more like kind of the mayhem of it, where you're sitting anxiously waiting for stuff because as soon as you get it, you've got to coordinate with a bunch of people and make this happen. Maybe have to coordinate with this other closing that maybe doesn't have to know about the earlier one, but maybe does because you're going to have to change their time. You know, like it's—- 
CLIENT: I already told Claire, the CPA, that I had another closing that might be messed up, you know—- 
THERAPIST: Right.
CLIENT: —- and why I found out about the football game and all that.
[00:37:30]
THERAPIST: Right.
CLIENT: —- and her schedule, so she kind of knows, but—-
THERAPIST: So is it a little hard to put your finger on what in this, or what about it, is driving the stress?
CLIENT: (pause) It's multiple things, really. It's the fact that it's not just going easy and smooth as it should.
THERAPIST: Right.
CLIENT: There's part of me that, you know, I have to manage the situation.
[00:38:28]
THERAPIST: Yeah.
CLIENT: The stressful—- I'm still going to have to deal with "Well, you know, why is your lender fucking up so badly?" I mean, that's—- it's not that I'm going to be blamed, but it's my client that's fucking up so there may be, you know, I don't know.
THERAPIST: I mean, some of that seems to then be worried about how frustrated you'll get. Like—- 
CLIENT: I'm going to be sitting in traffic and be like "fuck," you know.
THERAPIST: Yeah, [and instead of going "fuck,"] you'll be sitting around at, I don't know, 1:00 and waiting for documents and get frustrated in not getting them. 
[00:39:31]
I mean, is a lot of it driven by worry about how it's going to feel to be so frustrated?
CLIENT: I don't know. I don't know. I can't even really focus.
THERAPIST: I see. It's hard to sort out.
CLIENT: Yeah, and that's the other thing, like my focus is really off right now, you know.
THERAPIST: Huh. This is important. I mean, like if I were going for major surgery tomorrow—- I mean, that's sort of an easy one. I could say "I'm scared I'm going to die. I'm scared because it's all out of my hands. I'm scared that I'm going to be out for the whole procedure and have no idea what's going on. So I'm in all this danger. I'm helpless. I don't know. These are the things that are frightening me." You know what I mean? 
[00:40:31]
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: Like it's a little clearer why I would be frightened. There are plenty of reasons you could be stressed out about what's going on and really dreading it and anxious about it. It's very evident that's all there. But I guess it's unclear to me quite what's driving it, and I thought I had a sense but it's wrong. I thought it was the feeling of helplessness, looking bad in front of other people—- 
CLIENT: Well, the helplessness is—- 
THERAPIST: —- sort of worried about the intensity of your own anger and frustration over the whole situation. Yeah.
CLIENT: I mean, the helplessness is a big part of the lack of control, but you know, it's just—- maybe I'm just looking at it from a different perspective. I'm not—- I mean, maybe I am concerned about people thinking I fucked up, but I know my buyer knows it's not me.
[00:41:32]
THERAPIST: Sure. No, you're probably right. I'm not doubting where you're coming from. I'm just trying to understand.
CLIENT: Just—- I don't know. (pause) And who knows. At 10:00 the docs may just show up.
THERAPIST: Right, and everything will be fine. 
CLIENT: But to some degree it's almost paralyzing, like last night. I could've rallied and gotten to practice, but I was just—- 
THERAPIST: Right. Overwhelmed. We should stop for now.
CLIENT: Post office, post office.
THERAPIST: Post office.
CLIENT: Well, you'll find out Tuesday how everything went.
THERAPIST: I hope it goes well.
END TRANSCRIPT
