TRANSCRIPT OF AUDIO FILE:
______________________________________________________________________________
BEGIN TRANSCRIPT:
THERAPIST: Take all the time you need to catch your breath. It sounds like you ran.
CLIENT: Not quite but it did take, it took a little bit longer than I expected.
THERAPIST: Do you walk all the way here?
CLIENT: Mm hmm.
THERAPIST: Good for you. It's a nice day for it.
CLIENT: Yeah. And then it was also the whole, "Oh wait. It actually is too hot for my jacket. Oh now I need to carry my jacket."
THERAPIST: Yeah. One of those in betweens.
CLIENT: It started off not being that hot.
THERAPIST: Well you get warm when walk, you're using your body. (PAUSE) Whenever you feel ready, let me know when you want to start. [00:00:55]
CLIENT: I'm kind of mad (ph) and it might be my be my own fault and maybe I'm too controlling. But, okay, so (PAUSE) his car, the inspection, the sticker has a nine on it. It's supposed to be inspected in September but he was putting it off and putting it off and like didn't have time on Friday, Saturday woke up too late because the places would be closed by two and Sunday nothing was open so he was going to do it this morning. And I was like, "Okay. You're doing it tomorrow morning." And he was like, "Yes." And he was up last night like... I went to bed around eleven. Also he took a nap yesterday afternoon for like a good three hours and like I knew he was going to have trouble going to sleep and I asked if like he was going to be up too late to like take an Ambien so he wouldn't be up forever so I wouldn't struggle with him the next morning. I went to bed around eleven and then I woke up at four. He was like next to me in bed using the laptop at four and I was all like, "Why didn't you go to sleep? Like, you said that you were going to go to sleep." [00:02:05]
He was all like, "I don't want to get addicted to the Ambien." I'm like, "You need to talk to your psychiatrist about how addictive Ambien is and whether or not like you're going to get addicted to it if you take it every night which you haven't doing." Also he was going to call his psychiatrist yesterday and didn't. Now he says he'll do it today. And I don't know if I believe him. So this morning when I tried to wake him up and of course he wouldn't wake up and like now... Like it was even a struggle to get him to have breakfast and like... Yes he was tired but at least he wasn't super disoriented or anything. (inaudible at 00:02:41) he wouldn't go to sleep. And he was all like didn't want to face the world. I'm like, "The longer you try to put off facing the world, the worse it will be when you have to do it." Like, I don't want to be in the position. Like I don't want to be responsible for waking up. I don't want to be responsible for him bringing the car. [00:03:00]
Yes on Friday, I broke the mirror. Like, I was like trying to pull into a spot and I got too close to the car and like there were cars behind me, it was like in the morning and I was like got all panicked and I like hit it. At a very low speed so right now it's like hanging off and like the mirror itself isn't shattered or anything. So like, but it does need to be repaired and... But even that, like, he'll get a ticket eventually. Like, it is now October and he needed to get... And also the brakes were like already kind of worrying and sometimes making a squealing sounds and it's like well like, you don't want to be driving a car that has faulty brake pads. Like, that's bad. And like, we have a wedding that we're going down on Friday morning and we can't have a car that's not working. He can't have a car that doesn't have working brakes. [00:04:00]
You know, maybe the brakes are fine but I don't know and like, that's the point of an inspection. That's why you have a yearly inspection and the fact that he put it off to this long... And then he has a sci-fi meet up tonight. Which originally, he was going to drive there like drive back and therefore wasn't going to drink a lot. Because it's at a, it's a diner where there's alcohol, I don't know. And like, but now I'm not going to see him all afternoon because he's going to bring the car afterwards and then he's going to go to his place because he's going to bring the car to a place near his place and I'm not going to see him for ten hours and I got annoyed about that because... You know, and it's like the holiday so he can't call me and I have no clue when he's going to get home and I really, really hate it. And like, he doesn't want to be restricted like, having to get back by a certain time. But like, I don't think it's fair that like he can be out forever and like won't give me a time that he'll be back by and like I don't, like he thinks he shouldn't have to restrict himself and I think that like I don't like the uncertainty. [00:05:00]
THERAPIST: What worries you about not knowing when he's going to get back from something?
CLIENT: I'm afraid that he won't get back.
THERAPIST: You're afraid he's going to get hurt or that he won't come back?
CLIENT: That he won't come back especially if he drinks too much. He's like, "Oh I won't get drunk." And I'm like... I don't know if I believe him. Because alcohol lowers your inhibitions. Maybe he'll find someone cute at the sci-fi meetup and go home with her and not with me or not come back to me. And I just don't like open ended things when I don't know when he's going to get back from it. And like, when I get, have things, like they're usually not open ended and if I'm running late, I will call him and tell him and he never does that for me. And like, it's not fair. And like, I don't want to be controlling and maybe I'm being controlling. But like the whole then like now because of him procrastinating the car thing, I don't get to see him all afternoon either because he's like... Though he miscalculated because he was like thinking he was going to get out of therapy by like 3:50 but like, if he remembers correctly and figures this out his therapy is at two and he's going to get out at 2:50 and he could get the car there by like, you know, if he drives to therapy, you know, get the car there by 3:15. [00:06:15]
Like they might have time to do some work on it. He thought he wasn't going to get there until like 4:15, 4:30 because he's like off by an hour so... He actually would have had time to come home because the thing doesn't start until six. Like yes, if he was dropping the car off at 4:30, I would understand not wanting to come home for an hour and a half when it's going to take like a half hour each way to take.
THERAPIST: It sounds like there's a couple different things going on at one timing. You're, you're talking about your frustrations about him procrastinating and not getting the inspection done on time. But you're also talking about counting the hours when he's away from you and figuring out to the minute when one thing should end and another thing should start. [00:07:03]
Which is different than feeling frustrated about him procrastinating. And then the other thing you're talking about is not trusting that he's going to come back to the relationship. It's not so much whether he's going to come home but I heard you saying, "What if he finds somebody cute and goes home with her?"
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: So it sounds like you're feeling insecure about the relationship. You're feeling frustrated with his level of responsibility of being proactive about things and you're feeling, and you are feeling that you want to control and know very detailed, very precise and detailed information about exactly what he's doing and when.
CLIENT: Maybe. I mean, it's like I'm okay with him going just like he could have come home in between and he didn't even realize it. I'm pissed about that and like, "Oh fine."
THERAPIST: What if he doesn't want to come home in between? Not because he doesn't want to be with you but just because he doesn't, what if he just didn't want to figure it out, what he was going to do with the hour? [00:08:01]
CLIENT: I guess that's his call but it's really... I guess the problem is because it's I can't call him. Because I don't have that contact. (PAUSE) It's not like he can call me and be like, "Hey I'm running late," or anything like that. Not that he necessarily would think that he would. I guess because there's drinking involved, I don't like it. (PAUSE)
THERAPIST: What scares you about the drinking?
CLIENT: Lowering of inhibitions.
(PAUSE)
THERAPIST: So you don't trust him?
CLIENT: I don't know, like, I don't know. Like, I guess because once upon a time he cheated on Laura even though it was a completely different situation and she was abusing him and like, but still. Like, and he felt bad but like not...
THERAPIST: Is this something new that you're worried about his being faithful? [00:08:59]
CLIENT: No. It's just like up until now, he hasn't (inaudible at 00:09:03) sometimes get insecure. It's not like... And I guess because we haven't been doing anything sexual and it's been three weeks out. (inaudible) Like, you know, if we were always doing stuff then it would be okay. But we aren't.
THERAPIST: So you're, you're wondering what that, if that means something.
CLIENT: Yeah. Like he just... He says he'd be this way with anyone right now with his depression and he won't like, do the things he needs to do to make his depression better. Like not calling his psychiatrist and stuff. And I'm like, "I can't deal with..." Like, I was really tempted to leave on Saturday. I was just like, "You don't try. You're not making any compromises. I'm making all the compromises. It's not fair that I should make all the compromises if it... Maybe I should leave." (PAUSE) I didn't but if it's never going to get better and he says he'll get better and he says he'll get better but he doesn't get better. [00:10:00]
THERAPIST: So you're starting to wonder if you should leave the relationship but you're also afraid that he's going to leave you.
CLIENT: Yeah. (PAUSE)
THERAPIST: I wonder how your doubts and your fears kind of play on each other.
CLIENT: I mean I guess it also because of Nicola like that always made therefore like be suspicious and never thinking that a guy would want to stay with me because (inaudible)
THERAPIST: When you feel insecure because all these old demons kind of pop up.
CLIENT: (inaudible) not try to offer me any sort of comfort and he says he loves me but he doesn't do anything to prove that he loves me and he doesn't care how I feel.
THERAPIST: What would be proof? [00:11:01]
CLIENT: Wanting to do sexual things with me or something or like coming to a compromise and he never does like I feel like he only loves me when it's convenient and... Maybe I shouldn't make him choose between his friends and me but if he had to choose, he'd choose his friends. Like, I try to include him and the whole wanting to get away from me thing. Like when I go out with friends, like, not that I've been doing it that often, but when I do like I would invite him alone and if he doesn't want to come along, that's fine but like I would invite him and he doesn't do the same thing. Like, I feel like I'm not welcome. He wants his time alone with his friends without me. He wants to get away from me.
THERAPIST: Is that what he's saying? He wasn't to get away from you?
CLIENT: Not exactly though he has said it before and then like he doesn't mean it but maybe he does and I don't know. [00:12:00]
He wants some time away and he does say that so I guess he does. He's like, "I spend all my time with you." He was like, "I was with you all morning." All morning was me trying to get him to wake up because he refused because he was being irresponsible about the stupid car and going to bed and wouldn't listen to me and that's not really an enjoyable morning.
THERAPIST: No probably not for either one of you.
CLIENT: And I said that like. You know, he was like, "Why don't you go down and make French toast?" And I went down and made French toast and I went, "You'll know by the time I finish it you need to like be dressed. You'll, you know. Can you be dressed? Can you get your, take your drugs and come down before I'm done with it?" And he said yes and of course he doesn't and I was on the last piece of French toast and went up and like he still was Interneting (ph) and hadn't taken his drugs and hadn't gotten dressed yet. And I'm just like, "Why did you even tell me to go down and make French toast if you're not going to like get ready?" You know? Still thinking that he would have done the car before therapy and he didn't. So it's not like I'm doing anything fun with him right now. I just deal with all the sad parts of him and like he gets to like do happy things with other people instead. And that's not fun for me. [00:13:19]
THERAPIST: No it's not. It sounds really frustrating.
CLIENT: It's not fair. (PAUSE) The fact that he can't say like his (inaudible at 00:13:41) "Okay I'll come home at a reasonable hour. I'm like, "What is a reasonable hour then?" Because I didn't want him to come home at one or two and say, "Oh. It's a reasonable hour." Like, like having some sort of definition of when a reasonable hour is not an unreasonable thing and he's like, "Oh, well. If I tell you a time, you'll get mad if I get back later than that." But if it's six to nine, like, you know, and he stays after for a bit like whatever. Like if he comes home at one that doesn't make sense. That's like another four hours after it should have ended. Like, yes people stay a little bit later but I don't want him out all night. [00:14:17]
THERAPIST: Why not?
CLIENT: Because I don't want to be away from him that long and because maybe I don't trust him and because if he gets to have fun with his friends and I don't get to have fun with anyone and I'm sitting there bored because it's (inaudible) and I can't do anything and not like I have anything to distract myself with except for reading and after a while I get sick of reading and there's nothing to do and...
THERAPIST: So would this be different if it weren't a holiday and you had more freedom about you could do?
CLIENT: Yeah. It would be. And also if like he were willing to call me or something if he was going to be late. Like, I just don't know and like because it's at a bar that scares me. Like I'm just afraid he'll forget me, you know, and start talking to some woman whatever and like not even mention the fact that he has a girlfriend and then... [00:15:11]
THERAPIST: Well that doesn't seem to... So, I mean some of your, you're saying it would be different if it weren't a holiday and you could do things.
CLIENT: Okay. That wouldn't...
THERAPIST: But those fears have nothing to do holiday, not holiday.
CLIENT: But at least I could distract myself with something if it weren't a holiday (inaudible at 00:15:27).
THERAPIST: Do you think your fears are reasonable?
(PAUSE)
CLIENT: Not really. Well like he does get crushes on other women but he like wants to be able to tell me about them and he'll tell me and then he gets over his crushes and whatever. But like, that scares me too. Especially if we're not having a sexual relationship right now and then he's getting crushes on other people but not feeling that way towards me. Like that doesn't...
THERAPIST: Is that happening now? [00:15:57]
CLIENT: Sort of kind of... Like at the party, there were two girls that he thought were cute and that sort of bothered me because he was all like wishing, part of him wished that he had gone home with one of them. Like that was during verbal (ph) fight where he thought that he were like sexually incompatible and that's why we hadn't been making out and like... There's that part of him that wanted to go home with them. Like there's that part of him like, you know, did he have any feelings about me then? Was he only thinking about the other women and never thinking about me and like he never... Like it's just been so long and like... Like I think if we had a stronger relationship it would make me less insecure but we don't because he won't (inaudible)
THERAPIST: I would imagine it feels like you have lots of good reasons to doubt him if he's saying that there were these other women at the party and wished he gone home with one of them?
CLIENT: Yeah part of him. He didn't really wish it and he said he was glad that he didn't but... [00:16:59]
THERAPIST: But it feels like a... I can see where that feels like a concern just hearing something that part of him thought, wanted that.
CLIENT: And yet not wanting that with me is like really? And then he was like later was like (inaudible) he thought that they were cute and whatever. I'm just like, "Okay. He thinks that I'm prettier. He wants me more." But like (PAUSE) I'm just afraid maybe he'll crave an escape and just decide to come home with someone else to get an escape from me and punish me or something or ...
THERAPIST: And what are you being punished for? What would you be punished for?
CLIENT: I guess for worrying about him and making him sad and for wanting him to come home in the first place and stuff. I don't know. Though, when I asked him, he was like, "Oh. You're being restrictive." I'm like, "Well, is telling you not to sleep with other people being restrictive?" And he's like, "No that's normal." And I'm like, "Okay." But like where does this mind go? [00:18:00]
(inaudible) And like, he shouldn't have to report his movements to every minute but like... Specifically the wanting going to go to a bar with lots of different people who he's friends with but then also new people and like not wanting me along.
THERAPIST: Does this dynamic feel similar to either of your other relationships?
CLIENT: No.
THERAPIST: I guess it feels different with him.
CLIENT: Yeah it does and it never really happened. And like Jonas hardly ever saw his friends and like, usually I'd be in bed and if he was like going out with people from his like research group and whatever. It's not like I saw him every night either. You know, it's not like he would have been coming home to me or anything.
THERAPIST: And was that okay with you that he didn't?
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: That you didn't spend every night together because that's different than currently. [00:18:55]
CLIENT: I mean, it was okay with me. I also had never spent every night together in any relationship before so... I didn't think it would ever be a... I thought that's what people would only do if people were they were like married or something or living together. So this is something completely different. And like his depression just isn't helping. And like I have to be the one to take care of him and like I get nothing in return. (PAUSE) He doesn't try to make himself better. 
THERAPIST: It feels very different than when you first started dating.
CLIENT: I'm just so sick of it. He's been depressed almost the entirety of our relationship. He's been depressed since it's like February. You know, and if he only has (inaudible) he should be meeting with his psychiatrist more than once a month it he's like still this unstable. Like it should be like... It shouldn't be this infrequently. It shouldn't. And the fact that last time it was just like, "Oh. Let's just wait and see and not make any adjustments to him meds. [00:20:01]
And yet like he's getting worse and worse and like won't do anything about it and spends therapy talking about things that are completely irrelevant like his parents or something and I'm like, "You need to tell your therapist about this dodging responsibility and putting everything on me." It's not fair. (PAUSE) Like I shouldn't be in charge of him getting his car inspected but if he doesn't then that affects me. Because (inaudible) You know, like we're getting our... Especially because also like the wedding is like the first night like Friday night, we'd be in a hotel Saturday night we'd be like out camping so we have to have these camping supplies so like, even if we were taking the train down there... [00:21:01]
Also, it's like not the place itself it like (inaudible). So like, there's no way for us to get from point A to point B without a car and camping gear is big and heavy even if it's only a night's worth of camping gear. So like we need the car. (PAUSE) It's just like all really bad timing and I guess I prefer... I just don't like it, like the whole late at night, going out until all hours thing.
THERAPIST: It sounds like you're mad at him.
CLIENT: I am.
THERAPIST: It sounds like you're mad at him not for going out tonight but you're mad at him for not making you feel secure and you're mad at him for not taking care of his responsibilities and therefore, whatever happened tonight is not going to be good because you're mad at him about all of these other things that are a little bit more sort of chronic. [00:22:05]
CLIENT: (inaudible) How am I not supposed to get mad at you like if you keep on doing the same thing over and over again and won't listen to me and I feel powerless to do anything about it and you won't do anything about it." Like...
THERAPIST: Yeah you can't change him. You can't make him behave in a certain way.
CLIENT: But I have to deal with everything. Like I shouldn't have to be the one to bring his car for inspection like... The mirror was my fault but he still needed to bring it before the mirror and he still needed to bring it before like. You know, and also the brake pads, the brake pads are important and you need working brake pads and the squealing sound was getting a little bit disconcerting. Like he needs to do that. Like and he needs to do that before the wedding and... [00:23:01]
THERAPIST: But you can't make him do that.
CLIENT: But I can't make him do that and he won't make himself. I guess he's doing it after therapy. I don't know though. Like I really don't know what he's doing.
THERAPIST: Right because you don't trust that he'll follow through on what he said.
CLIENT: Because he's not followed through before and he's all like, "Oh, you don't trust me to follow through." And I'm like, "Yes. Because you never do... You know, whenever you say, 'Yes. I'll go to bed at a reasonable hour,' you end up staying up late and not going to bed at a reasonable hour and not even trying." Of course I'm going to get mad at him for not following through if he doesn't.
THERAPIST: Yeah you're going to doubt whether he will the next time.
CLIENT: And I think it's reasonable for me to doubt him and doesn't think it's reasonable for me to doubt him I guess. Or like I'm hurting by doubting him but like I can't not like doubt him. It would be stupid for me not to doubt him if he doesn't the same thing over and over again. It would be stupid for me to say, "Okay," and think that it would all be okay this time. [00:24:00]
THERAPIST: I'm sure it feels yucky on both sides. It doesn't feel good not to be trusted but it also doesn't feel good not to have evidence you can trust that he'll follow through.
CLIENT: It makes me not trust anything he says. (inaudible) Like yesterday we got into a fight because like in the morning like I wanted to get over to my place so we could like be there for (inaudible) and not have to fight in the afternoon and we actually did do that successfully but... Like in the morning he wanted to go to (inaudible) and it was raining out and there was line and we didn't have our umbrellas and there wasn't any parking nearby and I was like driving and I'm like, "Is it okay if we don't go to (inaudible)?" And he said, "Yes it's okay." And then I'm like, "Okay then we'll like go to my place." And he's like, "Okay. But if I don't have a bowl of cereal... If there's even any milk that's still like good." Just like... "Okay, so you're getting mad about that and you're blaming me." And then like it came out that yes he was disappointed and he's like "Oh, I didn't want to tell you because it wouldn't be polite." [00:25:07]
I'm like, "I have no way of..." You know, like, I then have to reconcile... Like I get confused. Like if you tell me something's true and then you act like it isn't true. Like I guess it's some weird Southern thing where they like because I guess I was supposed to come back with like, "Oh, but you really wanted to." But I don't because I take people at face value because I don't play games like that. And it's not fair to me to like expect me to somehow know if he doesn't tell me like that's not cool. And then it got into words because and by then it was too late and like we had just... Then he got all upset and we ended up going to my place but like I was really annoyed at him for not just coming out and telling me because it's more impolite to cause me suffering I think by not telling me the truth which he should have. [00:26:01]
Especially something like that. Like there's no reason why he couldn't have said, "Yes, I am really disappointed." Like, that's not fair. Like I don't think I'm overly direct. He apparently does but like... You knew this was a risk by coming up North. He'd probably end up dating someone Northern. They'd probably not be doing this whole thing. (PAUSE) So then when he says something is fine like it's hard for me to believe it's fine because he sometimes says it's when it's not fine. Whereas like if I think something's not fine, I will say so. Like I won't do the whole pretend "Oh, it's fine." and it really not be fine and expect him to read my mind. He's expects me read his mind. Where he's like hinting at it. I don't do well with hints. I need directness because I don't always catch things and then I get confused. So... (PAUSE) [00:27:07]
(inaudible at 00:27:25)
THERAPIST: You guys are really having a hard time.
CLIENT: Maybe it'd broke up with him and just got over him and let him take care of his own problems.
THERAPIST: What do you think it would be like?
CLIENT: I'd be really sad at first. I'd be really upset for a while and probably be really miserable for a while and feel really stupid and stuff. And I'm just afraid that I'm, you know, I don't know that. I think in general if he weren't depressed, he'd be wonderful for me but because he's depressed like everything is just awful. You know and then I might not find someone as good as him again and then it'll be my fault. [00:28:11]
THERAPIST: I guess the hard thing is to know what's, what's caused by the depression and what's separate from that.
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: And then I guess also kind of what is meaning to be with someone who is depressed? What, what do you, what do you expect to cope with and what do you not? Big questions.
CLIENT: Maybe I should have never agreed to be with him but he wasn't this depressed when we first started dating. He said he got depression but he also had thought it was under control and then it became not under control. (inaudible) forever to do anything. Like when I think my medications aren't working, I call my psychiatrist because I know that my medications aren't working and I want to fix that. [00:29:07]
When he thinks his medications aren't working, he just like is like, "Oh, well I'll wait until my next appointment." And that might be weeks away. And that's like not fair to me and it's stupid. Because like it's obviously causing him discomfort but like he doesn't care enough to do anything about it and... (PAUSE) And that's really problematic that he won't take care of himself. Like... And I don't get why he won't take care of himself.
THERAPIST: Yeah and do you, you feel like it's won't or can't?
CLIENT: I think it's won't. I mean, part of it is like he does feel anxious about making any phone call and stuff but like I think it's more won't than can't. It's technically (inaudible) with enough asking him to do it he'll like do it eventually maybe. But... [00:30:15] (PAUSE)
THERAPIST: It puts you in the really difficult position of being a nag.
CLIENT: I don't want to be the nag but I don't want (inaudible at 00:30:24)
THERAPIST: Yeah. And then he, I would imagine that after some amount of time, I don't know it that's part of what's happening now, but that he feels resentful of that and when you talk about him not wanting to be chained into coming home at a certain time after things or whatever but that it's starting to sound like he's feeling, you know, kind of penned in or...
CLIENT: Then if I don't nag him, I usually, if it's anything that has to do with like something that either of us could do, I end up always doing it myself and then I feel resentment.
THERAPIST: Right.
CLIENT: Because like...
THERAPIST: It feels like too much responsibility. [00:31:01]
CLIENT: Like if I have to do all the dishes and make all the food and do everything myself all the time always. Like that's not fair either.
THERAPIST: That's not fair either. That's right.
CLIENT: But if I don't ask him to, he won't do at all. If I do ask him, he'll get resentful. There's not like...
THERAPIST: You feel like you can't win either way.
CLIENT: Yeah. I don't know what to do. (PAUSE) I could have to wait until Wednesday if I were to bring the car myself and maybe that's the solution is for me to bring the car myself to get it inspected and fixed because he won't. I don't even know if I can. Like I don't know if you're allowed to like bring someone else's car to be inspected like that. Like if you don't have the matching driver's license with the registration that's on it like... You know, not like my name is also on the car. [00:32:00]
THERAPIST: Yeah. I don't know about that.
CLIENT: I've never looked into it before but I don't even know if it's something I can do.
THERAPIST: And if you don't do it...
CLIENT: Yeah?
THERAPIST: ...what happens? I mean, I know that it'd be... It sounds like you'd be nervous driving to the wedding.
CLIENT: We would have no right side mirror for a five to seven hour drive in each direction on the highway. That would be scary. Like I already don't like highway driving and I already had to drive home the entire way for the last wedding we went to and if I'm going to have to drive again like...
THERAPIST: That's unsafe. You will feel really uncomfortable and unsafe driving without the mirror.
CLIENT: Without the mirror and then also the whole if he doesn't take it to get inspected like the longer he waits, the longer...
THERAPIST: The more likely to get a ticket.
CLIENT: Ticket, yeah. And I don't know how much the ticket would be and I assume he wouldn't towed for it but I don't know that for a fact. [00:33:05]
THERAPIST: I think he'd ticket first but then the bigger... So, I mean, if he gets a ticket because he hasn't brought it in, that's his responsibility to pay the ticket.
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: That doesn't directly impact you.
CLIENT: True.
THERAPIST: But it sounds like you'd feel really uncomfortable safety wise.
CLIENT: With the brake pads too. But especially with the mirror, especially if I'm going to have to do the driving which I'm guessing I'm going to have to do. (PAUSE) (inaudible at 00:33:47) uncomfortable driving when we were going home from the wedding. It was just that he was feeling worse and so I like I sat there and forced myself to drive, you know, and tried not to think about it and like was so afraid I was going to lose control of the car even though it was like day time and stuff and like. You know, just kept on driving and driving and driving and driving and driving and I was like, "Well, if I stop, then I'll never start again," and drove until we got home that night and we got home around like 7 or 8 or something. Like... [00:34:19]
THERAPIST: So you're mad for that too?
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: And you're anticipating that happening again.
CLIENT: Yeah. It's not like he ever made it up to me. It's not like he then drove somewhere for me like...
THERAPIST: Did he appreciate it do you think?
CLIENT: I don't know. I guess, maybe. It's not like he acted super duper appreciative towards me afterwards so... I don't know. Maybe he did. If he did, he didn't really show it. [00:35:01]
I don't want to have to go through that again. Like maybe it would be easier if I just didn't go to the wedding. Because it's his friends not my friends but he wants me to come to the wedding. If he wants me to come to the wedding then we need to like get the car fixed because I don't know.
THERAPIST: That seems like a very reasonable thing to say.
CLIENT: Yeah. He's all like, "What if it costs thousands of dollars?" And I'm like, "I don't think a mirror and brake pads would cost thousands of dollars, having never like been the owner of a car before." And thus I've never actually had to pay for maintenance. Though it is just a guess. I guess the last time he lost a mirror, he had to like get it replaced and then they ordered the wrong part and it took forever. But like, I think in this case there aren't any parts missing. Like it got pulled off but it's still sort of hanging on. So like... [00:36:03]
Like I think if he wanted to like it wouldn't be ideal, he wouldn't be able to adjust it but he could at least like, you know, use packing tape to like hold it on for the time being if he didn't want to like pay for it or something or didn't want to risk them ordering the wrong part again. Because like it's like the same place he's like taking it now for inspection. Which makes me wonder why he's taking it back to them but I guess like in general they're good and like... I don't know.
THERAPIST: So those details you don't, don't have to be something you take on. But I think setting, a detail you can involve yourself in is setting a limit of what makes you feel safe or unsafe. Where he takes the car, that's, you know, that's his, that's his job. But you can set a limit and say, "You know, if you want me to come to the wedding, I need to feel safe in the car that we're driving in." [00:37:01]
That can be the line that you take. So this piece you want to take some control over. The other pieces, even if it doesn't make sense to you, kind of let them go and let them be his pieces.
CLIENT: Yeah. It's that he's worried about everything because the fact that he procrastinates and doesn't do it until it's too late and I'm worrying that he's going to do that this time and...
THERAPIST: And he might but you can't control that.
CLIENT: All I can do I guess if refuse to go to the wedding with him because I don't want to drive. You know, if he can drive without a mirror, fine but then he has to do all the driving and he doesn't want to do all the driving.
THERAPIST: Yeah so, you know, it's about being very clear in what you're willing to compromise on and what are the things that are needs for you versus what you'd want if everything were ideal. You don't have... Like you said, there's sort of a line of what's reasonable to expect and you need to understand what that line is for you and express it clearly to him. That way you don't take on everything. [00:38:09]
CLIENT: I'm being abusive to him?
THERAPIST: You're not being abusive.
CLIENT: Okay.
THERAPIST: I don't hear anything abusive in what you're saying. You wondered earlier if you were being controlling or demanding and yes, parts of what you're asking for are beyond the usual expectations. It's understandable why you're doing that because you've, you're not trusting him to follow through on things and you're not trusting him to be faithful to the relationship. So I understand where you're coming from and why you want him home at a very particular time. Why you're watching carefully when things start and stop because you're trying to understand where he's going, what he's doing. That's a level of detail and expectation that's a little bit beyond typical. Wanting him to get the brakes checked before a long trip, that feels within the typical, reasonable expectations to me. [00:39:15]
CLIENT: Okay. But isn't being controlling being abusive? Isn't it like the same thing?
THERAPIST: Not exactly, no. I think abuse...
CLIENT: It's not like I'm forbidding him. I just am upset.
THERAPIST: Abuse is systematically harming someone, hurting somebody. Are people that are abusive are also typically controlling? Yes. But controlling in itself is not abusive. It's not great for a relationship. Right? I mean, it's creating resentment on both sides. But it doesn't sound like you're being abusive. It sounds like you're being worried and that you're, you are being, you are, you're not being controlling. Because if he doesn't come home on time, you're not punishing him for it but you're asking for a level of accountability in some places that's a little bit more than what you probably can expect. (PAUSE) If you felt really secure, you might not care so much if he went out and had a great time with his friends. But you don't feel secure so it worries you. [00:40:29]
(PAUSE)
And I'm sorry that you don't feel secure. It's a really uncomfortable feeling. I wish you didn't feel that way.
CLIENT: I don't think there's anything I can do to feel more secure. Like I can't do anything.
THERAPIST: You can. It's hard to, it's really hard to trust when you're seeing these other ways that he's not following through on his word or not taken care of himself. So it's hard for you to trust that he's going to other things that you'd hope he'd do. [00:41:05]
CLIENT: I don't think he's actually doing to hit on other people and stuff.
THERAPIST: That's good.
CLIENT: (inaudible) concerns about him going and just (inaudible) I don't think he'd do that but...
THERAPIST: I hope not.
CLIENT: (inaudible at 00:41:35)
THERAPIST: You can't control the choices he makes.
CLIENT: No.
THERAPIST: I think that's, you know, that's the piece that you're worried about. You sort of want to control the choices he makes.
CLIENT: (inaudible) good choices normally but he never does. I just think... [00:42:00]
THERAPIST: It's something to pay attention to. And I know you questioned whether or not it feels right for you to stay in a relationship and if you never trust the decisions that he's making, if you never think he makes good choices, that might, you know, be some information that you pay attention to in making that decision. And I don't know if that's truly how you feel that he never makes good choices.
CLIENT: Not never but there's, he's been making a lot of bad choices lately and it's been bothering me. Because, you know, it I'm at least... Even now, he's still even procrastinating about like... So like, Kempsey (ph) had this, well actually had two recruiters that he was working with that like got him a job. And Kempsey (ph) was all like, "You Sydney, you need to talk to my recruiter Bruce." And so, Sydney didn't feel like he could say no so he didn't and then Bruce was all like trying to get him a job and was like convinced that he'd be able to get Sydney a job in like two weeks and stuff. And like Sydney has been delaying on working on this problem for... Because like the problem that they gave Kempsey (ph) for, like the thing they gave Kempsey (ph) was really easy and the problem they gave Sydney was really, really hard. And for the same sort of job. And it's like, you can't get an internship so you do that job. [00:43:19]
THERAPIST: That's unfortunate.
CLIENT: But like he could do other things but like he's like... I think he's also worried about the whole working thing. I'm like, "Okay. You should tell Bruce that like, you know, you thought you were better enough to work but like with your medical condition but you're not, you know, you want to take a break and you'll get in touch with him when you've recovered and you think you can work." And he was going to send that e-mail and he still hasn't. And I'm like, "If you want the pressure to get off your back, you need to send the e-mail. I can't do that."
THERAPIST: Right. You need to let him be responsible.
CLIENT: But if he doesn't do that then he'll have to just... [00:44:00]
THERAPIST: Then he has to deal with the consequences.
CLIENT: He's all worried about never being able to get a job. And I'm like, "You know, you need to like take a break and like live off your savings for a while and use that time to get better from your depression and figure out what you want to do with your life. Like, you shouldn't be working right now." And like, he accepts it but then he still worries and like... And the difference between him and me being jobless is that like there's no reason why I shouldn't be working other than not having a job.
THERAPIST: You're ready and able to work.
CLIENT: I might get a job soon. Like there are actually two recruiters who contacted me for what may be the same position or possibly two position on Thursday. It's in like labs and it pays... Recruiter number one said it paid 82,000 a year. Recruiter number two said it would pay somewhere between 70 and 80, closer to 70 side. Recruiter number one says that it's like six months to a year. Recruiter number two says it's a year or more. But it's both I think in labs, both with the pretty much the same job description. [00:45:05]
Recruiter number one's thing had the additional qualifications. Recruiter number two's description didn't. And like also like being an employee of one place while working at another and like government contract W2 thing like so... It could be the same position but the details... And then, recruiter number two has liked, I guess has worked, I'd be, told me a lot about the position. I'd be working with a group of six people and like on that six person team, he has placed like four people on that team so far.
THERAPIST: Oh so maybe there are two positions on the team left.
CLIENT: Maybe. And maybe they're both archivist (ph) positions but like he is convinced that like... He thinks that like, you know, because he's placed these four people that he's pretty knowledgeable about who would be a good fit. And I guess the one reservation was like the lack of, you know, me not knowing specific technologies. But I can learn those on the job. You know, and it's not like I claim to know any of them I didn't actually know. So it's like all there on my resume. Still they both contacted me. [00:46:17]
THERAPIST: Well I'm glad to hear that. That's a hopeful thing.
CLIENT: Yeah. I'm just afraid to get up hope because I'm like, "Wow. If I had that much money, I could do whatever the hell I wanted." I mean, I wouldn't but like...
THERAPIST: Well allow yourself a little bit of hope because hope isn't going to hurt you.
CLIENT: I guess because it pays so much, either 70 or 80,000 or 82,000.
THERAPIST: Either one would be a huge...
CLIENT: Like I think that I won't get hired for it because there's no way anyone would ever want to pay me that much money like is what I...
THERAPIST: Well if you're doing the job that's worth that. That's what they're going to pay somebody if you're qualified... You versus someone else... It doesn't matter.
CLIENT: Yeah because recruiter number one like first before she told me like how much it would pay, asked my salary requirements and I didn't want to limit myself and I said, "Oh well, you know, normal like starting archivist (ph) salary is like 40,000. Maybe I'll say 45 to 55,000." And then she's like, calls me back and is like, "It pays 80,000." I was like, "Okay." [00:47:11]
THERAPIST: That's fine.
CLIENT: Don't tell them that I would work for this much less.
THERAPIST: I will be hopeful for you about that and we'll keep working through the other stuff.
CLIENT: At least I'll spend more time away from home and Sydney can have all the time to himself ever and...
THERAPIST: We want him to want to spend time with you. We do have to stop for today. I will see you next week same time.
CLIENT: Same time.
END TRANSCRIPT
