Transcript of Audio File:
______________________________________________________________________________
BEGIN TRANSCRIPT:
CLIENT: I don't know where to start.
THERAPIST: (pause) What pops into your head?
CLIENT: (sigh) Still struggling at work and then there's this stupid money situation with my gym that actually had me stressed me out enough earlier today that I ended up throwing up at work from the anxiety. Yeah.
THERAPIST: What happened?
CLIENT: So I started working out at this gym which I used to be a member of till I lost my job so I quit my membership. Then once I had a job again I went back. And they were pretty insistent that new members do a personal fitness assessment which I was not at all happy about because in my experience these fitness assessments are basically, "Lose weight you fucking fatty." [00:01:06]
THERAPIST: How nice!
CLIENT: Yeah. I try to avoid them when I can but they were like, "No you really should." So I was like, "Fine. Fine."
THERAPIST: [And there was this] (ph), you may have mentioned part of it where the one person you...the one trainer you liked there left.
CLIENT: Yeah. So he was a guy who did my fitness assessment and the first words out of his mouth were, "I'm pleased to meet you, blah blah," introductory things but the first actual real thing he said was, "I have these list of things that I have to take because my bosses require me to. I have to weigh you and get your BMI but frankly I think that's all bullshit and that's not what I focus on." And I was like, "Huh!" That's actually...
THERAPIST: That's promising.
CLIENT: I came in prepared to have to do battle. (chuckle) So we really hit it off.
THERAPIST: That's great!
CLIENT: So I scheduled the second visit which was also complimentary and I really enjoyed that and so I decided to sign up for personal training sessions with Sergio and I bought a ten pack because you get a discount the more you buy at one time. And I thought it would be good for me because I haven't been working out for so long and I know I have a tendency to be lazy and not work out as hard as I can. Just to have someone telling me, "Don't stop. You can keep going." Blah blah blah. But then Sergio quit so I e-mailed the fitness director and was like, "Look, when I bought this ten pack I thought I was going to be working with Sergio. I don't want to work with anyone else. I want a refund." And she was like, "Well, unfortunately when you bought the training sessions you buy them from the company, not from the trainers so let me introduce you to one or more trainers who might suit your needs." And that just... (pause) Like the thought of having to sit through a session with someone I don't know, especially so soon after the first round of, "I don't know if this is going to turn out well. I'm bracing myself for having to fight for this stupid fitness assessment that they're making me do." It really upset me and it made me nauseous to the point where I literally threw up which is a little bit embarrassing because this really shouldn't be that big of a deal but...(sigh) [00:03:38]
And so she scheduled me for an appointment with another trainer for tomorrow afternoon and I went into the online scheduling system and canceled it because no and it's just...I don't know. I feel like she's trying to force my hand and, "Blah blah, you've already bought it so we can't refund your money because you bought it from the company." So I replied to her e-mail saying that, "I won't refund your money," saying, "That was never communicated to me. The person who rang me up, the woman working at the desk, said that I was buying sessions with Sergio and that was not...it was never communicated to me that I might be forced to work with another trainer. I'm not interested in meeting another trainer. Just doing this in the first place was very, very hard for me." It was a remarkable stroke of luck that Sergio's philosophy meshed with mine and I'm not willing to... (sigh) And then she hasn't responded so the longer it goes without getting a response from her the more upset I get and I don't know, I tend to feel like (pause) there's a monster under my bed lurking in my e-mail account every time I check my mail. [00:04:59]
THERAPIST: (pause) I want to make sure I have it clear [when it was rang up] (ph) that was in response to anticipating the session which he then canceled?
CLIENT: Uh huh.
THERAPIST: Okay, as opposed to — unrelated — but as opposed to your dealings with the manager you are talking about?
CLIENT: Actually it might have been both. I don't know. I have no (inaudible)
THERAPIST: Sure.
CLIENT: (sigh) It's just... (pause) Yeah, I know I should exercise because it's good for me physically and also emotionally. I feel better when I exercise but it's just so hard to even go to the gym because I feel so self-conscious and so horrible about my size. [00:06:17]
THERAPIST: [How so?] (ph)
CLIENT: I don't know. I definitely feel like all the skinny girls in the gym are judging me for being fat and there's the chronic refrain in my head of, "God, you're such a fucking fatty. Why are you so fat, you loser?" I could recite to you studies published in nutrition journals and medical journals about how dieting doesn't work and (sigh) blah blah, all of this research. (pause) But I don't really believe it.
THERAPIST: So you're fancying that dieting doesn't work and that you're just too lazy to work (ph) something to diet and (inaudible)?
CLIENT: Yeah. (pause) Which I mean, is completely ridiculous especially because for the past month I've been doing this exercise where I log everything I eat and calculate calories and I've gotten a little bit obsessive over it and even not trying to restrict my intake, like not trying to diet just recording what I eat on a normal basis. I'm only eating like 1500 calories a day. [00:07:40]
THERAPIST: Goodness, yeah that's really not very many calories.
CLIENT: No, so there's no reason I should be this fat if the mythos around dieting and calorie restriction was real, right? But there's still a part of me that sees being fat as some kind of moral failing on my part. And I mean we could dig back into my dad's chronic verbal abuse of my mother and his putting me and my sisters on diets when we were 10 and 11 years old and there is just a whole mess of stuff we could look at to see where these feelings come from.
THERAPIST: [It's interesting what you've done with them.] (ph) I wouldn't blame you it sounds (chuckle) really awful.
CLIENT: I'm mostly interested in being able to actually believe the things I say about health indicators like blood pressure and cholesterol and how much you can lift and how fast you can run being way more important than size. I'm trying to actually believe that instead of just saying I believe it. I'd also like to be able to go to the gym without having to force myself and having to pop an Ativan before I go in the door because it's so stressful being surrounded by thin women who are doing hours and hours and hours of cardio.
THERAPIST: (pause) Do you like working out apart from this other stuff?
CLIENT: Yep.
(silence from [00:09:10] to 00:10:34)
THERAPIST: So when you're at the gym you have those like me (ph) against yourself playing like they do most of the time?
CLIENT: Playing most of the time in general and when I'm trying to convince myself to go to the gym and usually the first couple of minutes once I walk onto the gym floor but once I get into my routine...most of my exercise is lifting heavy weights. I don't really do a treadmill or that (inaudible) low weight toning thing. I tend to go for as much iron as I can possibly move. But once I get started in that there's just no room for any other thoughts because all of my concentration goes towards maintaining my form and paying attention to what I'm doing and not hurting myself.
THERAPIST: What kind of lifting do you like to do?
CLIENT: I do big compound movements — bench presses, squats, dead lifts.
THERAPIST: Do you know what you like about those? [00:11:45]
CLIENT: I like feeling strong.
THERAPIST: Those will make you strong.
CLIENT: Yes, and also because I have crappy knees and crappy ankles which I inherited from my mom and my grandmother, running is just intensely painful for me but exercise like squats and dead lifts...according to the research that actually strengthens all the...
THERAPIST: It really helps right?
CLIENT: ...ligaments and small muscles and you know.
THERAPIST: Probably more so than something like a machine.
CLIENT: Yeah, and weight bearing exercises increase bone density which protects against osteoporosis. So it's just generally a feeling of enjoying being strong and enjoying kind of the endorphin rush afterwards. And also kind of taking pleasure in the feeling that I am taking active steps to take care of myself and make sure that I'm healthy when I'm 50 or 60 or 70. Given how horribly self-destructive I was throughout my early 20s it's reassuring to know that I'm taking care of myself in long term ways.
THERAPIST: (pause) Is there more you can say about that? [00:13:25]
CLIENT: I was suicidal throughout high school and college and for the longest time I really believed that I would kill myself before I turned 30 and I'm 30 now so obviously that didn't happen but it was just...
THERAPIST: (inaudible) wrong with that?
CLIENT: Yes. But I really believed it for a long time and I also just took stupid risks in college and after college but one time I ended up in a hostess bar pulled behind the counter and forced to serve alcohol to the men and half of the women in the bar were prostitutes and that was not terribly good judgment. You know, promiscuous sex, all kinds of reckless behavior without really thinking about the consequences. There was a time I went (inaudible) spelunking while hung over and sleep deprived and almost walked off the edge of a six foot roof. That was not...
THERAPIST: Six story roof?
CLIENT: Six story, yeah. Did I say six foot? Six story. I think I was trying to say floor and...yeah. So in other words a six story building and almost walked off the edge. If my friend wouldn't have grabbed me then (inaudible) because I was just that incoherent. Not that I wanted to walk off the edge but then I didn't realize it...yeah. [00:15:05]
So this idea that I want to ensure my health 20 or 30 years in the future — staving off osteoporosis, promoting joint health, not to end up with (chuckle) two hip replacements before 50 like my grandmother did...
THERAPIST: Are you serious?
CLIENT: It's reassuring to me yeah.
THERAPIST: (pause) (inaudible) I've never heard that before. (pause) If it keeps going for a little more I'll go check. (inaudible) (pause) Well I wonder if (pause) that's part of what made you so anxious, earlier, was (pause)...I have a feeling that you were kind of doing something self-destructive by going in to try to work with another trainer. That you anticipated being humiliated and (pause) always felt like you were ridiculed. [00:17:08]
CLIENT: I mean that's happened to me before, both at this gym and at other gyms I've belonged too. Before I [had started] (ph) this gym I signed up for group exercise classes that were billed as learn new strength building exercises and to try to use kettle bells, we're going to do this strength and balancing challenge, and both times the instructors turned out to be focused entirely on weight loss and they just talked about weight loss throughout the whole class. They weren't even strength training classes, they were, "Instead of lifting as much as you can, here take this three pound kettle bell and do 50 reps. You're burning that fat ladies! Just imagine your fat free 40s as you're lifting these kettle bells!" It was like you know that was just (sigh) really, really horrible and I left the class feeling like shit both times. [00:18:06]
Then a couple years ago I joined a gym — I was living in South Carolina — and I joined a gym near my work and they also had the fitness assessment crap that they force you to do and the first words out of the woman's mouth even before she said, "Hello, how are you? My name is...," was, "Let me guess, you're goal is to lose weight right?"
THERAPIST: Oh God.
CLIENT: I was just...even after I had written all of the information on the form the day before that my goals were to increase strength and muscle mass I was like (pause)... So yeah, I don't want a repeat of that.
THERAPIST: (pause) So this is going to sound like a very stupid question (pause) but for you, what is so humiliating about the weight stuff or feeling fat? I say a stupid question because obviously it's pandemic (ph) for people to feel that way about themselves but that doesn't mean it's clear, at least to me, what's at stake in that for you, you know? [00:19:52]
CLIENT: (sigh) (pause) I guess part of it is (pause)... part of it is worrying that I'm not attractive to people because I'm fat. Part of it is my (pause) father telling me and my sisters and my mom and throughout my childhood that people are fat because they're lazy and kind of tying that to some moral aspect or character that, "If you were a good person you would be thin." Part of it is (pause) I don't like feeling judged. I'm certainly no stranger to being mocked or teased or bullied for a variety of reasons when I was a kid. But it's a horrible feeling, feeling that people are judging you and you're kind of wanting (ph). [00:21:22]
And then there's also (pause) people don't believe me. And by that I mean when I go to a doctor for a checkup for whatever, they don't believe me when I say, "This is my diet. I eat mostly whole foods. I prepare myself almost entirely vegetables and whole grains." They just flat out don't believe me and they think I'm lying.
I was a Red Cross blood donor until I became ineligible because of their stupid homophobic (inaudible) regulations but...the whole if you've had sex with a man who had sex with another man you are ineligible. A guy I was dating, who since has moved back to Philly a couple months ago, is bi which means he can never donate blood and I can't until 12 months after we broke up.
But I would go in and — this all was a case from the last three or four years because I wasn't working out and exercising and was staying a sloth in grad school — but before that when I was exercising regularly. My resting heart rate was something like 50 beats per minute, ridiculously low and the nurses who took my heart rate and vitals they just...and my blood pressure was like 90 over 60, ridiculously low and I knew her (inaudible), it was (chuckle), "Are you sure you're not passed out right now?" Well they just couldn't believe it. They would say, "There must be something wrong with our instruments. You're blood pressure can't possibly be that low." It's just...it's really... (sigh) upsetting that people can't believe that I'm doing the right things. I'm being good. I'm eating right. I'm exercising and people don't believe that I'm doing that. They assume that I'm lying or fooling the blood pressure monitor or whatever it is. It's just... (sigh) [00:23:32]
THERAPIST: Right, and then there's a kind of moral weight to it as well. In other words you're lying about what you eat and you're clearly irresponsible about what you eat.
CLIENT: Right. And it's funny that the moral weight doesn't...in my mind it's more attached to the being irresponsible about what you eat more than the lying about.
THERAPIST: I see.
CLIENT: I think being not believed doesn't make me feel bad because people think I'm a liar. It just makes me feel outraged that they're telling me my reality isn't true because that's what my parents did. They'd tell me, "You can't possibly be right." Or they'd say things that flat out contradict reality. That's incredibly upsetting and kind of makes me question my sanity. So even though when I know that reality is, "Yes, my heart rate actually is this low because yes I actually do work out," I still question what if I'm wrong? And that's also crazy when I'm saying it now but that's how I feel. Yeah. [00:25:06]
THERAPIST: Yeah, I was thinking about what you said a few minutes ago about wanting to believe yourself about the things that you A) know to be true and B) make you feel better.
(silence from [00:25:23] to 00:25:50)
I guess my next thought was to wonder whether this is actually (pause) maybe a central (ph) predominately problem for you is the way you (pause) kind of [rent out] (ph) these awful (inaudible) feelings about yourself and don't believe many other things which you know to be true. (pause) Yeah I could imagine that like (pause) a lot of anxiety comes from anticipating situations where you go after what happened.
(silence from [00:26:57] to 00:28:18)
(inaudible) So much of that with exercise is it's centered around something that actually you enjoy, makes you feel good.
THERAPIST: Yep.
(silence from [00:28:40] to 00:29:04)
CLIENT: I feel like the social messaging around exercise and weight is this horrible catch 22 because you're judged and mocked and humiliated if you're fat but if you're fat and go to the gym and try to get thin, people in the gym judge and mock and humiliate me. So it's like what are you supposed to do?
THERAPIST: Suffer. (chuckle)
CLIENT: Apparently.
THERAPIST: (pause) Does it happen at the gym besides with personal trainers or situations like that where there's actually somebody kind of talking to you?
CLIENT: No one has ever said anything to me but it's just... it's really hard to shake the perception that people are looking at me and judging me, if that makes any sense.
THERAPIST: Yeah, that you feel self-conscious and watched and judged critically.
CLIENT: Yep. And it's in my experience that women tend not to say things to other people at the gym which is why I go to an old women's gym. When I went to coed gyms I got all kinds of stupid comments from men at the gym. "Don't bench press so much weight. It will make your breasts all hard and then no one will want to date you." That was one of the gyms that has stuck with me and that was five years ago. Dudes coming up and saying, "You shouldn't be doing that exercise. You should be doing this exercise," or, "You're form is wrong. Let me show you how to do it," or, "That weight looks too heavy. Let me spot you," and then taking the weight off. Like, "No motherfucker, I'm bench pressing by myself. I don't need a spotter. I've chosen an amount of weight that I know I won't fail on. Don't lift this weight for me. Fuck you." [00:31:12]
Just all kinds of like...I don't know, I think this is part and parcel in general when (inaudible) dudes feeling more empowered to like show their hands in people's faces, whether the receiver wants it or not.
THERAPIST: Yeah, especially if the receiver (inaudible). From here what you're saying mental versus entitled (ph) about that right? [That's a comparative of that.] (ph)
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: (pause) Which is actually, I know that sounds horrible but it's actually different horrible stuff.
CLIENT: Yes. I feel like the people in general who make comments about my weight have been professionals whom you'd think (pause)...
THERAPIST: It's just not right [to be] (ph) horrible. I'm not surprised but it's (inaudible) horrible, yeah. (inaudible) actually doing their jobs. [00:32:26]
CLIENT: I've always made comments...for a while I was trying to run because that's what you're supposed to do if you want to be fit in our culture. You're supposed to run and my roommate at the time was an avid runner. He ran marathons and he talked me into doing a marathon relay with him and my relay, my leg of the relay, was five miles and while I was running the race people — other runners and also pacers and people who were organizing the race — all made all sorts of horrible comments about my weight. (sigh) But I don't know, I feel like the [longest in turning] (ph) culture is just even more obsesses with thinness than cultures of old. Dancers and long distance runners and a couple of others I can think of that are obsessed with being tiny. Yeah. But in terms of in a gym, in the weight lifting part of the gym, all the comments have been from staff really.
(silence from [00:33:32] to 00:34:30)
THERAPIST: What else is coming to mind? (inaudible)
CLIENT: (pause) So I texted Dave during my lunch break and was like, "This is the e-mail about from the [general manager] (ph). I don't know what to do." And Dave was like, "Clearly you need to tell her that I want you to take this e-mail I'm about to send you and forward it to her." And basically it said...it was very belligerent. "I want my money back. You're not giving me my money back. This is fraud and illegal and if you do not give me my money back I will..." and then a bullet point list of, you know, "I'll report you to the Better Business Bureau, sue you in small claims court, tell all of my friends not to attend this gym. I'm sure I can convince at least two or three people not to come to this gym. How would that impact your bottom line? I'll post bad reviews on Yelp." It was just this long list of repercussions and, "I think it would cheaper to just refund me my 700 dollars on your part. Even if I don't win in small claims court you would pay your lawyer more than 700 dollars to review documents for this case." I was like no, I'm not going to sue over this in small claims court. I'm not going to...well I might post bad reviews on Yelp, but I'm not going to cancel my membership. I'm not going to stop going. I'm not going to...well I might also send a report to the Better Business Bureau, but I'm certainly not going to go to small claims court to sue those guys. I don't have that kind of time or energy or anything. I'm not going to try to convince my friends who go there to cancel their memberships because that's a good way to lose friends. [00:36:18]
So Dave has been texting me all afternoon saying, "Did you send the e-mail? Did you send the e-mail? You really should stand up for yourself and not take this lying down." He almost tells a point in that there are many circumstances where I'd rather just lose money than confront the person. And in fact I was — until I talked to Dave yesterday about this whole thing, I was considering just no-showing for the rest of the seven appointments in my ten pack and just losing the money because I didn't want to even ask for a refund. It was just too stressful because I didn't want to have a confrontation or have to claim (ph) myself. And Dave said, "No, that's creepy. Just ask for your money back. What's the worst that can happen, she'll say no?" So I did but I really don't really want to go guns blazing. "I will destroy your life and sue you," blah blah blah. [00:37:23]
THERAPIST: Do you know where Dave is coming from on this? In other words, is he suggesting that because he feels bad for you and this is how you can stand up the most for yourself or — I mean bad for you in a good way like because it pisses him off because they are being douchebags or this is sort of how he handles situations like that in general or something else?
CLIENT: Well Dave is certainly way more aggressive than I am in conflict and he's much more willing to get (chuckle) into open conflict with other people than I am. But I don't know if he would go that far over the line if it were something that he was involved in? I don't know. (pause) Actually maybe he would go that far because he's told me stories at work where he's gotten into screaming matches with coworkers over software design decisions that he thought were wrong. So possibly he actually would be that aggressive if this were his gym that he was getting screwed over in. [00:38:58]
THERAPIST: Yeah. (pause) So that made you feel crummier then that he suggested this and bugging you about it or I guess he meant it...yeah. Like not only has he lost his money and (inaudible) get it back and you're a wuss?
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: (pause) [Maybe if you really] (ph) had self-confidence you would do it this way?
CLIENT: (pause) Well someone who really had self-confidence wouldn't have called Dave on her lunch break all distraught over the situation asking for help.
(silence from to [00:39:57] to 00:40:41)
THERAPIST: I know. They say humiliation (inaudible) out of her box. Like, you (inaudible) to me.
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: (pause) I had a thought but did the old trainer Sergio leave on bad terms?
CLIENT: I have no idea what terms he left on.
THERAPIST: I'm wondering if you called him if he could do anything for you with that.
CLIENT: Oh I've been in touch with him. (pause) So what I would like to do, because he also works at a couple of other gyms in the area, is just keep training with him at some other gym. Keep my current membership because they have a bunch of really nice amenities like the sauna and the hot tub and yeah.
THERAPIST: But do your personal training at a gym where he works.
CLIENT: Yeah. And so I've been in touch with him and talked about his ski schedule and blah blah. But when I said I've got these seven sessions left and I don't know what to do about it he was like, "Yeah, I'm really sorry. I didn't know that I would be leaving when I told you to sign up for the package. If I had I would have recommended that you pay for them one at a time." Apparently he got a job offer that paid much better than and the [specialists annoy him] (ph) and so he quit. That was a really (inaudible) development from my understanding but he said that there is not much he could do. He didn't have any kind of influence on the manager at that place. [00:42:38]
THERAPIST: (pause) Maybe there really isn't anything you can do about this, you know? Like, baseline (ph) impression is you're busy feeling like anxious and (inaudible) about yourself and frustrated because you don't really want to go with Dave's way and I kind of get the impression Dave really had another plan that you're thrilled about. I guess I'm wondering about the possibility that this situation just sucks.
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: And that's not your fault that there's no good way out of it.
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: (pause) But like sometimes this shit just happens and (pause) it's lousy and frustrating and whatever but it doesn't mean you suck.
CLIENT: Clearly the overall situation is not my fault. If there's nothing I can do about it, there's nothing I can do about it. But it really feels horrible to feel like on both sides there are people trying to force my behavior and have me do what they want me to do. You know, on one side the gym wants me to either keep paying them...either lose my money or work with someone I don't want to work with. On the other side Dave wants me to be far more confrontational than I'm able to be and it's just (pause)... it's not fair. And really would it be so hard for them to just refund my fucking money? [00:44:50]
So the sessions, if you buy them ten at a time, they're 700 dollars for ten sessions, which I had used three. But if you buy them one at a time they are 85 dollars a session and I told her that I'd be willing to pay the full 85 dollars an hour for the three hours I used. I'm not asking for the discount for the ones, I just don't want to pay for these other seven. I don't want to work with someone else. She's like, "Well we can't do that." And it's like, "Why the fuck not?" Especially since they didn't charge my card up front for the full ten weeks' worth. They have a payment plan where they charge me for a third every four weeks so it's not even as if they have the money in their hands yet, right? Like... (sigh)
THERAPIST: We've got to stop but we'll talk [later tomorrow] (ph). [00:45:52]
END TRANSCRIPT
