TRANSCRIPT OF AUDIO FILE:
___________________________________________________________________________________
BEGIN TRANSCRIPT:
PATIENT: Hi. (inaudible)
COUNSELOR: Good morning.
PATIENT: Eleven (ph).
COUNSELOR: Just walked in. Come on in.
PATIENT: So is an insurance check okay?
COUNSELOR: Yeah. Actually, do you want to sit there?
PATIENT: Oh, I'm sorry.
COUNSELOR: That's okay.
PATIENT: Oh, because of the thing.
COUNSELOR: Well, no (ph), that's just usually where I have people sit.
PATIENT: Yeah, I'm not even thinking.
COUNSELOR: Yeah. Why don't you sit with your (inaudible at 0:00:29.0) and -
PATIENT: I'm going to go ahead and write you a check now, to get a minute...
COUNSELOR: Okay.
PATIENT: ...if that's okay.
COUNSELOR: Sure.
PATIENT: Can I borrow a pen?
PATIENT: Mm-hmm. So this is a good time for you? Thursdays, 11:00?
COUNSELOR: Does that...
PATIENT: Yeah, that's fine.
COUNSELOR: ... (inaudible at 0:00:50.8) to you?
PATIENT: Yep. Oh, la la la la, money money money money.
COUNSELOR: (chuckles)
PATIENT: I'm really just kinda tired and preoccupied. I have a test tonight in my sociology class. I'm not working today because I worked for this girl a week ago and she switched so I have today off, so I'm going to study all day. And that's good because I haven't - I'm not prepared. So.... Today's the 22nd.
COUNSELOR: How do tests usually go for you?
PATIENT: Don't know. I don't have a usual thing because I haven't been in college for a long time. This is my first one in the sociology, and then I had my first one in biology last week, and I haven't gotten my test back. When I was little I used to do really well. But then I got in college, and.... I never learned how to study because everything was so easy for me. And in college, I mean, I just was never challenged. My mother - they didn't insist that I should take something hard.
COUNSELOR: Who? Who didn't?
PATIENT: My parents. So....
COUNSELOR: Did you think that you should be taking some harder classes?
PATIENT: Now I do. I didn't then. I didn't want to take anything hard.
COUNSELOR: Sure.
PATIENT: But I wish they had pushed me back then.
COUNSELOR: Because...? [0:02:27.4]
PATIENT: Because I would have had to learn how to study. And because when I got to college I never studied and I just partied and I was out of the house and I was.... They were really strict as far as going out and stuff when I was young. So....
COUNSELOR: So they were strict (inaudible)?
PATIENT: (inaudible) when I was in college.
COUNSELOR: But they were strict in some ways and not very strict in others?
PATIENT: Well, I was making A's, so why should they get down on my case about studying, you know? I guess they didn't think about, well, she should be taking all her classes. Like my sister right now - my nephew is really smart and he's reading between a second and third grade level, he hasn't even started kindergarten yet.
COUNSELOR: Wow.
PATIENT: So he had his tested and then he's reading on a second or third grade level, she's going to put him in first grade instead of going to kindergarten. Which I think is good, if he's that smart and needs the challenge. Otherwise he'd just be bored.
COUNSELOR: And is that what you were?
PATIENT: Maybe in elementary school, yeah. But I don't know if I was ready to move on or not. I don't know. I don't think I should have been held back - I mean, put forward. But I think I should have been told to take harder classes. More college preparatory classes.
COUNSELOR: So, what, you skipped a grade? Is that what you're saying?
PATIENT: No, I didn't. No, I was normal. I'm saying I shouldn't have taken - I mean, I was fine. But I should have been forced to take like advanced Algebra, advanced this, that, and the other thing. And I didn't, you know. I thought, well, why do I - back then I said, why do I need to work hard? I don't see the.... I didn't want the reasoning back then.
COUNSELOR: And you were doing well.
PATIENT: Yeah. So I said, why do I need to push myself? And now I know. So.... Anyway, so as far as that test goes, I don't know. I mean, I should have been studying all along for this sociology test, but I've been studying on the biology, so this is sociology, I feel like I can just cram it, hopefully. Because I know a lot of it just from living. So we'll see. I'll let you know next week. [0:05:09.4]
COUNSELOR: Good.
PATIENT: So that's it. And I'm like just preoccupied with that. (yawns) Excuse me. I'm feeling fat, and I've been eating a lot. Because I told you I'd quit smoking?
COUNSELOR: You didn't tell me that.
PATIENT: I didn't. Yeah, I quit smoking. And they were really on my case at work about staying thin.
COUNSELOR: Oh, really?
PATIENT: Yeah, and going to class and staying in shape, and they're really...yeah.
COUNSELOR: So what do they do?
PATIENT: Well, they just say, you know, "You need to watch what you eat, and lose a few," or whatever. And they're just - well, because we're supposed to be these workout trainers and we're working for these Uptown women that are.... I mean I don't care. I mean, I do care, I want to get thinner, but it's.... (inaudible at 0:06:08.9) I just got this new roommate who's like 300 pounds, she's huge. She cooks all the time, eats - well, she doesn't eat, I don't think she eats that abnormally, but she just cooks all the time and food all the time's around. Whereas before I would like skip dinner or eat something really light. And now I'm always eating dinner and maybe (ph) something not so light. And before, I had another roommate, she was thin and she ate like I did. It was easier. And that was my whole thing when I got her as a roommate - well, I don't want to get fat. That's really kind of.... All right (ph)? Because I grew up with really fat people. Large people.
COUNSELOR: Oh, you did?
PATIENT: My parents were heavy, and my siblings are heavy. And we always had a lot of food around, and I was always heavier when I was living at home and then as an adult I've been thinner. So that's the deal.
COUNSELOR: And have you had to struggle to stay thin, or...? [0:07:19.2]
PATIENT: Yeah. I have. Yeah, I really have. I've never been anorexic or anything. I wished when I was younger that I could have been. But I could never throw up, so that saved me from that. And then (yawns) in college I took laxatives for a while. And I don't know if that really worked, but I did it. Other than that, I've never - I'm not one that can starve myself. I get too hungry I just can't do it. So....
COUNSELOR: It's also obviously healthier not to starve yourself.
PATIENT: Yeah, exactly. So that's all. I'm sorry I got all dressed up for you today.
COUNSELOR: You're sorry that you got all dressed up?
PATIENT: No, no, I'm like, it's like - I look terrible today, is what I'm saying. So that's all. I'm seeing an ex-boyfriend tomorrow. You know what, I feel pressure I have to talk.
COUNSELOR: I was wondering about that, actually. Because you said something -
PATIENT: I'm like rattling on and on and on and on. I hate that.
COUNSELOR: Yeah. Has that happened before in other therapy, or do you think there's something particular going on?
PATIENT: No, I don't think there's anything particular going on so much, because I don't feel - I mean, I'd rather just sit here and you talk. Because, you know, I was like I'm so tired. Then other - like last therap - well, in the beginning I feel like the pressure to talk because you don't know me...
COUNSELOR: Sure.
PATIENT: ...and how else are you going to fix me if you don't know what to do?
COUNSELOR: So part of you feels it's like, you feel pressure...
PATIENT: Yeah, yeah.
COUNSELOR: ...so that I can know you more, but also it feels like that's not what you want to do today.
PATIENT: No, I don't feel like it today.
COUNSELOR: What would you do if you did what you wanted to do?
PATIENT: (yawns) I'd stay home and sleep or -
COUNSELOR: So you wouldn't have come in at all.
PATIENT: Yeah. You know, but I needed to, anyway, and I - you know, I came.
COUNSELOR: Mm-hmm. Do you think there was anything in particular about - you know, thinking about being with a new therapist, or in addition to feeling tired, or -
PATIENT: Just that I'd have to talk and - oh, I just, you know, and I'm thinking about my test, and I know I could be sitting at home. [0:09:55.3]
COUNSELOR: Sure.
PATIENT: But I knew I needed to come, anyway.
COUNSELOR: Yeah. Needed to come like -
PATIENT: Needed to come - well, I'd already promised you - I mean, already made the time. And I'd probably have to pay, anyway. And I said, well, I just might as well go. And I said, well, I can read my stuff on the subway in just 45 minutes. I just came. So....
COUNSELOR: But in some ways it's not where you want to be.
PATIENT: No, but it's okay, not a whole deal. You know, when you get in therapy, you're forced to talk, kinda. I had this mean - not mean - but I think I might have you told you about this male therapist?
COUNSELOR: Yeah, you did.
PATIENT: I used to - couldn't - I really felt uncomfortable with him. And I was lying on the couch and I was here, my head was here, and he was there where you are - pretend the couch is here - and -
COUNSELOR: Your head was over here?
PATIENT: Yeah. And I just did not feel like talking, or I felt like I didn't have anything to say, and I was nervous around him. And I said, "I don't know what else to say." And he goes, "Why do you feel like you need to say anything?" And then I'd (inaudible at 0:11:29.1), "I don't know." Then I'd just sit there in silence for like five minutes, and he didn't say anything. Used to drive me insane.
COUNSELOR: Yeah, because part of - it sounds like what you're saying is, it's not just that you would have wanted to come in here and have both of us be quiet...
PATIENT: Right.
COUNSELOR: ...but you wanted me to talk.
PATIENT: Yeah. Like sometimes I don't feel like doing all the work. I mean, not that you're not, because I know you're listening and stuff, but I just feel like it's an effort for me to go to therapy. Which it is and I know, and I shouldn't complain, but -
COUNSELOR: So maybe you want me to kind of share in some of the pressure that you're feeling.
PATIENT: Yeah, sure, but I don't know what it is that you need to do right now. I don't know. Well, maybe you know.
COUNSELOR: Well....
PATIENT: I like your necklace.
COUNSELOR: Thank you.
PATIENT: You're welcome.
COUNSELOR: What would you want me to talk about? [0:12:30.3]
PATIENT: I don't know. You don't have to talk about anything.
COUNSELOR: You just want me to talk?
PATIENT: No. You don't have to talk about anything.
COUNSELOR: Yeah, I'm more just asking what it is you would have wanted me to talk about.
PATIENT: There's nothing - see, you can't do anything until you find out more about me. It's like, well, what happened to that person that did this to you? You know, you don't know anything, I don't think. And that's all.
COUNSELOR: So we're in a quandary.
PATIENT: Hmm?
COUNSELOR: So we're in a quandary.
PATIENT: So what do you need to know about me?
COUNSELOR: (chuckles)
PATIENT: Couldn't you think? Of anything? That you need to know? That will help you? Help me? (laughs)
COUNSELOR: Well, I can think of a lot of things that I don't know about you that I would like to know about you. I guess one of the things that is on my mind right now is more just about kind of this pressure kind of that you feel and that you want me to understand. It seems like there's something important about that, and important about that with other therapists, that -
PATIENT: I see what you're saying, but....
COUNSELOR: I guess actually I'm trying to refine what I'm thinking here, and as I'm thinking about it, there seems to be something about your wanting me to talk, or your wanting me to do certain things, but also feeling like you don't want me to give in to you too easily, that you're afraid you're going to be able to kind of boss me around a little bit.
PATIENT: No, I don't think so. I don't feel like I could boss you around. I definitely don't think I could do that. To me you don't seem like you could - you're that - you seem like you're a tough cookie.
COUNSELOR: And have you been with other therapists who haven't been such tough cookies?
PATIENT: No.
COUNSELOR: Because I wondered about the one who - the resident who wasn't very experienced, who didn't know what she was doing, and you felt like you could kind of -  [0:14:59.4]
PATIENT: Oh, no. I don't think I could control her. That was.... I wanted to - I wanted to slap her around - but I couldn't and she just sat there and she was a bitch and, you know, when I think you're younger and you're just starting out, you think you know more than.... I don't know. I can't really say what her deal was. I just wasn't comfortable with her. She wasn't giving me what I needed.
COUNSELOR: Yeah, she pissed you off (inaudible at 0:15:25.5).
PATIENT: Exactly.
COUNSELOR: So what about with tough cookies? How is it for you being with tough cookies?
PATIENT: See, she wasn't like saying like what you are doing.
COUNSELOR: And what -
PATIENT: She wasn't saying, "Well, how is it with this person?" You know, she wasn't saying, "Well, I thought you said, blah blah blah blah blah blah blah."
COUNSELOR: You didn't feel like she was really very (inaudible at 0:15:44.8).
PATIENT: She goes, "Uh-huh, uh-huh, uh-huh." And she'd write down. "Uh-huh, uh-huh...oh, really?...uh-huh." (sighs)
COUNSELOR: Right. So there was no kind of connection between you.
PATIENT: Oh, unh-uh, unh-uh. And then I just - when I would talk, she was just like...kinda checking me out.
COUNSELOR: Yeah. Sounds like you felt very kind of surveyed by her.
PATIENT: Yeah, exactly. That's exactly how I felt.
COUNSELOR: Is that like a familiar kind of feeling for you?
PATIENT: No. Mmp-mm.
COUNSELOR: So, yeah. There hasn't been something that you've experienced with other people?
PATIENT: Well, I think maybe sometimes.... I want people to accept me right away, and most people do. Most people think, oh, I'm so fun and whatever. But some - I think I'm a lot sometimes for people to take, and it kind of overwhelms them, in a way. Like in Chicago especially.
COUNSELOR: Why in Chicago especially?
PATIENT: Because everyone's so cool. Aloof.
COUNSELOR: Huh! And they're -
PATIENT: You know, they don't have the Southern hospitality.
COUNSELOR: Oh, I see. I see what you're saying, uh-huh. So you've got to come on strong.
PATIENT: Yeah, they're hard to get to know. And then they don't know what to make of me when I come on strong. I'll say, "Hi, how are you doin'?" blahblahblah. For some reason I want to hold on to this pen (inaudible at 0:17:07.0). I mean, it's like having a cigarette. You know, I'm really - I have all this nervous energy in my hands.
COUNSELOR: Well, part of it's probably not smoking any more, right?
PATIENT: Yeah. Well, you know, it is, but I've always had that nervous energy ever since I was little. I used to eat my hair. And then after that, when I started to wear make-up, I started picking my mascara off, so I always had these dirty thumbnails. And then I started smoking. But, you know what, it's really gratifying just to hold this. [0:17:43.0]
COUNSELOR: Yeah?
PATIENT: Yeah. (chuckles) It is.
COUNSELOR: You looked like you were kind of acting for the camera.
PATIENT: No, I thought about it - ahh, this is going to look stupid. I thought, oh, they're going to laugh, after I did it. And then I didn't act for them, but I thought, oh, God, they're going to, like -
COUNSELOR: What do you know about who's watching?
PATIENT: I don't really know anything. I just know that whoever is doing some research to see how our interpersonal thing works...
COUNSELOR: Right, right.
PATIENT: ...and that's all I know. And I don't know if they're going to like study it word for word for word for word, or just like fast-forward and get to the good stuff, or I don't know what.
COUNSELOR: You know, I had this thought that maybe part of what appealed to you about this project is kind of the careful attention that we give to people, and, you know, that there's a lot, you know, we videotape things, and we go over things -
PATIENT: Well, I like that, I like that. And I like the part when I was in Montclare that I felt like I was getting - before I got this last person - I felt like I was getting more attention than I would have with another therapist that was out of school, because they're getting graded on it or, you know, they have to talk to their teacher or their boss or whatever and say, "Well, she's" this, that, and the other thing, and they go, "Well, why don't you try this?" or...I thought that I was given more care. Even though they didn't have as much experience, they were working with somebody that had a ton. So I liked that. And then I saw -
COUNSELOR: And they were being kind of monitored.
PATIENT: Yeah, I liked that. And so I liked that. And it's also cheaper.
COUNSELOR: Yep. [0:19:39.2]
PATIENT: And I saw - and it was a study, and (inaudible) usually in studies, that people pay attention more. Not that I - I'm also kind of - I don't know if that really appeals to me. After I've gotten into it, it's kind of appealed to me. But initially, in the beginning, the price that appealed to me. And now the other is all kind of appealing to me. I didn't really seek it out - and my zipper's undone. It keeps coming undone. Not that I'm so fat, pushing it out, but it's just a weird zipper. So that's my answer. So.... Let's see, what time is it now? We started at 11:00.
COUNSELOR: We actually started a couple minutes late.
PATIENT: Did we?
COUNSELOR: Yes.
PATIENT: But did you check to see if I was here?
COUNSELOR: No.
PATIENT: Okay. I was actually going to go a couple minutes over.
PATIENT: Oh. Because (ph) the clock out there was 11:00. And I thought, wow, I'm just on time. You know, walked in the door, sat down, then you opened the door. It was like, whoa! Timing. So.... You know, I feel - yeah, see, I feel like pressuring to think of something, okay, what else can we talk about? (yawns) I mean, I can talk about - get into my ex-boyfriend that I'm going to see tomorrow. But that's a whole long story. But we have 25 minutes, almost.
COUNSELOR: What do you - is there something in particular that feels which - that you want to talk about or that you want to tell me or -
PATIENT: Well, I'm going out, tomorrow's my birthday, and -
COUNSELOR: (inaudible at 0:21:50.3)
PATIENT: Yeah. And I want to go out on my birthday, but I don't have any money. He has money, he offered. And then, what bothers me about it all is that my friends think, what, do you really want to go out with him? Why do you want to go out with him? After what he did to you? And what he did to me, he's the - I got pregnant by him last summer. You know, I wanted to have a baby and he didn't. So he kind of talked me into having an abortion, and I really, really, really didn't want to. But he was not ready to take it any more serious, and he thought it would be just a step in the wrong direction. So.... I like him a lot, you know, but it still hurts. [0:22:53.8]
COUNSELOR: The abortions.
PATIENT: (begins crying) You know what's really hard is that - upsetting, this human development class that shows all the pictures of the baby at just different stages, and I have to memorize all that stuff for the test.
COUNSELOR: So you think about it a lot, it sounds like.
PATIENT: Oh, yeah. And then my friend Susan, she's having a baby in September. We would have been due at the same time. Her baby shower is on Sunday.
COUNSELOR: So what would have it been like if you had kept the baby?
PATIENT: Well, I would have had to go home. Which is really tough, because.... The first of all, when I first told my mom she said, "Oh, honey, come on, move on home, you can live with us." And then I thought, okay, good, well, my mama will take care of me. And then the next day she called and she - you know, she just got married.
COUNSELOR: Oh, no, I didn't know that.
PATIENT: She got remarried.
COUNSELOR: Uh-hmm. When was this?
PATIENT: Oh, about six months ago, January. So a little bit over half a year.
COUNSELOR: So January?
PATIENT: Yeah. And so she just got remarried, and the next day she called me and she said, "You know, Jed might" - (inaudible) name is Jed - she said, "Jed and I were talking, you know." She says, "I've made a commitment to him," she said, "and I don't see how carrying a newborn is not going to help me tend to his needs, and I already have 6." She has 3 grandchildren already from my sister. She inherited 3 from Jed. [0:25:03.4]
COUNSELOR: Oh.
PATIENT: He already had 3 grandchildren.
PATIENT: And she goes, "We already have 6 grandchildren." I don't know.
COUNSELOR: What a disappointment.
PATIENT: Yeah, but my sister said I could move in with her.
COUNSELOR: Sounds like you kinda wanted to do this with your mom.
PATIENT: Well, I wanted some - maybe, I don't know. I just thought, well, I could go to school and continue to work on something and I wouldn't have to be - you know, it'd be okay. Then Jack's parents - Jack's my ex-boyfriend that committed suicide - Michael's parents offered me to move in with them. And I felt, oh, that's so sweet, you know, they just want a grandchild because they're never going to have one, and then I felt, that's an idea. But then I thought, oh, Mother said I need to stay in Chicago and work on getting money out of Peter, because these people have already seen the story if they've -
COUNSELOR: This is for you and me.
PATIENT: I know. And what was I saying?
COUNSELOR: You were saying that your mom said you needed to work on Peter.
PATIENT: Oh, yeah, Mama says - and Jed said - I needed to stay in Chicago and have the baby and work on - she said because she didn't know what my rights were if I move to Florida. She said I needed to stay; I'm getting money out of him. She said that baby is an heir to that fortune. Because Peter comes from money, and he's going to be rich once his father's dead.
COUNSELOR: And I assume he's the father? He was the father of the -
PATIENT: Peter?
COUNSELOR: Mm-hmm.
PATIENT: Yeah, no, once Peter's dad is dead - his father's like seventy-something -
COUNSELOR: Mm-hmm. But Peter is the ex-boyfriend that you're meeting tomorrow evening?
PATIENT: Yeah, yeah. And then, anyways, so I thought of that - well, how am I going to do that on my own? And then I went out with my girlfriends, they said, "Well, we'll support you, we'll support you." But, you know, it's so hard and.... I just, you know, I keep on thinking - I don't know, I don't know if I did the right thing. [0:27:35.0]
COUNSELOR: You cut yourself off, Kerry. You keep on thinking what?
PATIENT: Well, what if I had the baby? I don't know. I think, well, maybe I'm never going to have another chance to have a baby. I'm 37 tomorrow. I don't have any prospects. You know, I've already had - now I've had four. (blows nose)
COUNSELOR: You've had four....
PATIENT: Abortions.
COUNSELOR: Oh, I didn't know that.
PATIENT: Yes! If my mother knew that...! And she says, well, you should just give it up for adoption. And I could have had the baby to term and given it up. [Can anyone] (ph) be a single mom without any money? And no one would have wanted (ph) me. So, I mean, I have it hard enough trying to find dates now. It still hurts.
COUNSELOR: Yeah, it sounds like part of you really wanted to have that baby.
PATIENT: Yes. (inaudible at 0:28:58.5) today.
COUNSELOR: Well, maybe one of the things you're saying is that, you know, this is a hard part of therapy. You start to open up some of these things.
PATIENT: Yeah, yeah. But I don't really think about it being this hard. I mean, I don't have any problem opening up. I mean, it hurts and I need to get it out, but I just - when am I going to feel better from all that? Is it ever going to get better? When am I going to feel at peace?
COUNSELOR: You sound lonely.
PATIENT: I am. And I don't want to be hanging on to Peter tomorrow night and begging him to - not begging him, but trying to force some kind of relationship which I know will never happen. [0:30:05.2]
COUNSELOR: Is that what you would want? Do you want a relationship with him?
PATIENT: We get along really great when we're together. But he's just so.... He lives in Ohio, and he just doesn't communicate. I mean, when he's there he's fine, but he's not there enough. I don't know. I have a hard time just being friends with a guy. And that's what would be good, if I could just be a friend with him. And then my roommate and a lot of other people have said, well, they think he's gay because he didn't make a move on me for six months when we first started going out. And that's not normal. And - well, had not penetrated. I mean, most of the time, you know, first date; people want to have sex with me. He was taking it slow. He always - he's just - he said he's known for being methodically slow and - you know, he analyzes every single thing. He's a researcher. So....
COUNSELOR: So you took it slow, and then you got pregnant.
PATIENT: Yeah. You know, and we're not even dating. Almost - well, a year.
COUNSELOR: When you got pregnant.
PATIENT: But it hadn't been a year of seeing each other all the time, either. Maybe once or twice a month, if that. Not talking on the phone on a regular basis at all. He used to always say in the beginning - he was just very - I guess the word might be ambivalent I'm not sure. He would say stuff like, "What kind of wedding do you want?"
COUNSELOR: In the beginning. [0:32:23.9]
PATIENT: In the beginning, like third or fourth day. And stuff like that. And then he'd say, he said, "Oh, if we had any kids, I wonder what..." - I mean, we'd talk about children's names. I was like - then he wouldn't call me for eight weeks.
COUNSELOR: That's confusing.
PATIENT: Yeah.
COUNSELOR: Like push and pull.
PATIENT: Exactly. (inaudible at 0:32:51.6) I know he really cares about me, but I guess he doesn't care about me enough. He has horses; he's really into his horses. It seems like they come first with everything.
COUNSELOR: He doesn't care about you enough to marry you and have a child with you.
PATIENT: Exactly. Bottom line.
COUNSELOR: You know, one of the things that I'm thinking about, Kerry, is -
PATIENT: Maybe I shouldn't go out. Anyway, go ahead. What were you saying?
COUNSELOR: Well, I was thinking about how much, you know, loss you've had, with your father and your -
PATIENT: Boyfriend?
COUNSELOR: Jack, yeah. And these four abortions.
PATIENT: Yeah. I'm on medication, too. You knew that, right?
COUNSELOR: They (inaudible at 0:34:07.1) to me about it.
PATIENT: I guess - I don't know if you need to know it, but yeah. (inaudible), Zoloft, (inaudible).
COUNSELOR: And who prescribes those to you?
PATIENT: You know, originally, Montclare - well, not originally. But I've been on it for - not Zoloft, I started off with Prozac. Ritalin something (ph) for about five years, ever since the first abortion. And -
COUNSELOR: So the medication's associated with other losses for you.
PATIENT: Yeah. No, second abortion, I started. So yeah, I've had (inaudible) other losses. But what were you going to say about the other losses? [0:34:59.0]
COUNSELOR: Nothing more than that.
PATIENT: Oh.
THERAPIST: I was just thinking about...thinking about that.
PATIENT: Yeah. And Peter knows about all this also.
COUNSELOR: Meaning what?
PATIENT: That he's still there.
COUNSELOR: And he's still....
PATIENT: I mean, he still talks to me. He's not like turned off.
COUNSELOR: What would turn someone off about -
PATIENT: Four abortions?
COUNSELOR: The abortions.
PATIENT: And I told him on the phone, I said, "I'm not having another abortion. I'm not having another one. I've already had three, I'm not going to have another one." And then he told me he's already had one with his ex-girlfriend, and I thought, well, why do you want another one? And he's saying - he just thought it was like an easy remedy, easy solution. I don't know how it's easy.
COUNSELOR: Well, it hasn't been easy for you.
(blows nose?)
PATIENT: Excuse me, sorry. (laughs) I've got blood on it. (blows nose?)
COUNSELOR: You know, I was wondering, Kerry, if maybe what might feel more important to you right now is talking about whether or not you want to see Peter tomorrow. Maybe not. I don't -
PATIENT: Yeah, I know. I don't know. I mean, for part of me hope still lingers, that he'll come around. And I just can't. I'm not going to be able to talk to him about this until late tonight when I get home after school. [0:37:33.0]
COUNSELOR: Talk to him about...?
PATIENT: About tomorrow. Maybe I shouldn't. It'd be too hard.
COUNSELOR: I guess I was thinking that part of you, on your birthday, probably really wants to go out with him and wants to be taken out for a nice dinner...
PATIENT: Yes, I do.
COUNSELOR: ...especially given that you don't have money. And you also probably know that it's a gamble. I mean, you could have - it could feel really nice to be kind of taken care of and lavished upon on your birthday, and it might turn out to be a bust. You may be very disappointed.
PATIENT: Well, I don't know what to do. As I told one of my girlfriends, "Well, I don't have anything else to do, nobody else is offering to take me out." It's my 37th birthday, it's a pretty big birthday.
COUNSELOR: So that feels like the real thing.
PATIENT: (blows nose?) Yeah.
COUNSELOR: Then maybe it's bringing home, you know, a lot of the issues that you were bringing up before - that, you know, you wanted to have been married at this point, and you wanted to have children.
PATIENT: Yeah. I don't know what to do.
COUNSELOR: You mean about -
PATIENT: Peter.
COUNSELOR: Are you asking me or - I don't know -
PATIENT: Yeah, kind of. (laughs)
COUNSELOR: I don't feel like I know the answer, either.
PATIENT: Yeah. [0:39:59.7]
COUNSELOR: It's just hard. I guess that I - you know, one of the things I'm wondering is, you know, what you want on your birthday.
PATIENT: Love. Affection.
COUNSELOR: And what does that mean?
PATIENT: Somebody that'd be lavished - I want to be lavished upon me, like you said. You know, I don't know if I'll ever find anybody. I just - you know, just because I've been hurt so much, my self-esteem has just gone to pot. And that's my whole problem. I can't get it up to - if somebody comes around that I want to date, I'll just swallow them (inaudible at) because I want them to love me so bad.
COUNSELOR: So that your kind of need to be loved is just going to just going to kind of - you're going to kind of leech onto them and...
PATIENT: Yes, exactly.
COUNSELOR: ...swallow them up with all your kind of neediness.
PATIENT: Yeah. Exactly.
COUNSELOR: There won't be anything left of them.
PATIENT: Unh-uh.
COUNSELOR: Well, you know, my sense is, Kerry, that part of this is some old feelings coming through...
PATIENT: Yeah.
COUNSELOR: ...and I'm not sure what they're about yet because I don't know you well enough to tell...
PATIENT: Yes. Yeah.
COUNSELOR: ...and that part of our work together will be kind of figuring out kind of what some of those old feelings are about and how they might be kind of getting in your way...
PATIENT: Yeah.
COUNSELOR: ...of getting what you want.
PATIENT: Yeah. And that's the truth, definitely. I'll have to dissect it and really go where I can think. [0:42:33.1]
COUNSELOR: And also kinda separate out, you know, what's kind of left over from the past versus what's now in the present, you know. There may be some kind of past feelings haunting you that, you know, may or may not be so relevant for now.
PATIENT: Yeah.
COUNSELOR: Like this old feeling that you're going to swallow someone up with all your neediness.
PATIENT: Well, I've been told that.
COUNSELOR: You've been told that you -
PATIENT: I'm too needy. I like the person too much. Too eager. And what my friends always say, "You fall too hard too fast."
COUNSELOR: So is that what that means? So like what does that look like? Like give me an example of that.
PATIENT: Well, like the last boyfriend that I had. Like my girlfriend just told me, she just told me that. That - I mean, I'd been dating him since November, and she said that I fall too fast. I don't know if she said I scared him off, or I don't know what. She said that I fell too fast. And then I had an ex-boyfriend (inaudible at 0:43:51.9) now I'm still friends with, who lives in Florida, I talk to him occasionally - he told me that that was my problem.
COUNSELOR: So you have a hard time kind of taking things more slowly. You kind of jump right in.
PATIENT: Yeah.
COUNSELOR: Maybe before you even know the person very well.
PATIENT: Yeah.
COUNSELOR: And before you even know if they're who you really want.
PATIENT: Yeah.
COUNSELOR: But there's something about just being able to kind of hold down a man, as you say.
PATIENT: Yeah, but you know what, in every other aspect of my life I'm that way, too, and it hasn't really hurt me.
COUNSELOR: Like what do you do that -
PATIENT: I don't know. I think I'm really intuitive as far as knowing what's right and what's not. It's like my roommates. I'll pick my roommate from The Blue Light Pub, and I just know right away if I like the person or not. And I haven't had any problems with my roommates; knock on wood - wherever the wood is. But -  [0:44:53.2]
COUNSELOR: (Laughs) So in some ways you're saying that it's actually -
PATIENT: I just think it's not the norm, people aren't used to it, and it's not the way they do things, so they think that it (inaudible) not that way. The whole Florida thing, you know, about just being so out there. I mean, the last boyfriend said I was very intense. I go, "In what way?" Because I wanted to know, because it was like, I need to know. And he goes, "Just every way around you, you're intense. Every part of you is intense. Everything you do."
COUNSELOR: Well, one of the ways that we'll get kind of the most information about this and be able to really kind of understand it the most is to see how it might kind of happen between us. And it may kind of surface in different ways, but I think it just sounds like this is something that's been an ongoing theme and...
PATIENT: Yeah, it is, definitely.
COUNSELOR: ...that we'll, you know, end up going back to.
PATIENT: You know what the time? Is it about time?
COUNSELOR: It's about time. But if you want to stay (ph)....
PATIENT: One thing I think that - good therapists have always said, "Well, what do you think about changing therapists?" And it hasn't really bothered me that much...
COUNSELOR: Huh. Huh.
PATIENT: ...but when the therapists always ask me that question, they want me to go into this issue. It's like, it hasn't - I think it's because I've changed boyfriends so much, then - I don't know, I'm just (inaudible at 0:46:42.3).
COUNSELOR: Yeah, yeah, it sounds like -
PATIENT: And I get really intense, like I am now with you, so quickly. And then I'll do the next one.
COUNSELOR: So....
PATIENT: So I don't have a problem opening them up real quick to anybody. I don't know.
COUNSELOR: Well, I guess one of the things I'm curious about is whether you feel repercussions for opening up so quickly sometimes
PATIENT: To the therapists?
COUNSELOR: Therapists, boyfriends....
PATIENT: Well, I might scare them off a bit, but - maybe. But me, as a person, I don't feel like - you know, if they can't take it, they can't take it. It's me. [0:47:31.6]
COUNSELOR: So you're kind of conflicted.
PATIENT: Yeah.
COUNSELOR: Part of you thinks it's just who you are and, you know -
PATIENT: I do think it's who I am and I think - it pisses me off that people can't take it.
COUNSELOR: So screw 'em if they can't take it.
PATIENT: Yeah, exactly.
COUNSELOR: And part of you also feels like this has happened a lot.
PATIENT: Yeah, and people tell me that. It makes me mad. You know, well, I don't have any problem making friends. I have friends, a zillion friends. Why can't I make a boyfriend - have - keep a boyfriend if I can keep a zillion friends?
COUNSELOR: Okay. Well, I mean, it doesn't -
PATIENT: (inaudible at 0:48:09.3) Huh?
COUNSELOR: It feels like a hard place to end because it feels like we're in the middle of something, but we ran out of time
PATIENT: Okay.
COUNSELOR: And so I'm going to see you next Thursday at the same time.
PATIENT: Next Thursday at 11:00.
COUNSELOR: And let me give you the questionnaire.
PATIENT: Okay. I'm going to use your trashcan, too.
COUNSELOR: That's fine.
PATIENT: Oops. And I don't have a pen to fill it out.
COUNSELOR: You can use mine (ph).
PATIENT: Thanks. And just leave it out there at the desk?
COUNSELOR: I might be here. If not, you can either, like - it will probably - I think it'll slip under the door, actually.
PATIENT: Okay.
COUNSELOR: Okay?
PATIENT: And you have the envelope?
COUNSELOR: Oh, yes, thank you. There you go.
PATIENT: All right.
COUNSELOR: Okay.
PATIENT: Thanks. And, and...thanks.
COUNSELOR: All right, Kerry.
PATIENT: All right, I'll see you next week.
COUNSELOR: See you next week.
PATIENT: Thanks. [0:49:27.6]
END TRANSCRIPT
