TRANSCRIPT OF AUDIO FILE:
______________________________________________________________________________
BEGIN TRANSCRIPT:


COUNSELOR: Testing, one, two, three, four, one, two, (slapping sounds), three, four. Testing. Testing. 


This is session number two. Session number two with client 0729-107. 0729-107. 1970.


One, two, three, four. (footsteps)


I hope this isn't what we're going to have winter. (chair dragging) (throat clearing) (telephone bell) Oh, it's hot. 


PATIENT: Well, am I ever glad last week is over. 


COUNSELOR: Oh. It was rough, huh? 


PATIENT: I was really nervous, yes.


COUNSELOR: Oh.


PATIENT: About starting this whole thing. And (pause) I don't know. I guess I've really had mixed emotions. I wonder if I'm, you know, sick as I thought I was and I hurt as bad as I thought I did. And (pause) - and I feel a certain caution. I have to prove to you that I'm just a little bit sick so you won't say, "Well, you're not sick."


COUNSELOR: Yes.


PATIENT: You know, "What are you doing here?" And I talked with Susan about it (inaudible at 1:39). It's been difficult for me to start therapy. I'm kind of (inaudible). You know. Something - did you listen to the tape last week? Could you hear it? You did? You did listen?


COUNSELOR: I didn't listen to it this time. 


PATIENT: Oh, my goodness. [2:00] I really don't know how I feel about it. I think I feel OK, but I'm not sure. 


COUNSELOR: I'm not sure what it was you were about uncomfortable about. This - feeling that somehow - well you were pretty high level of anxiety at that time or just feeling like you didn't know what to say?


PATIENT: I often wondered, you know, how it came across. You know? (inaudible at 2:31) is sort of like pictures in effect. But they're only one of the - relate to only one sensation. 


COUNSELOR: Oh.


PATIENT: One sense. Yes. 


COUNSELOR: And you're kind of like, "What did I sound like?"


PATIENT: Yes. (inaudible at 2:46) 


I guess the other thing that kind of bothered me (clears throat) was the fact that I felt like I turned you off last week.


COUNSELOR: Mm.


PATIENT: You had a really long week. 


COUNSELOR: (inaudible at 3:02)?


PATIENT: Well, I think it has to do with the trial therapy.


COUNSELOR: Mm. Yes. And somehow bringing that in ...


PATIENT: Might have turned you off like I was, you know, questioning your credentials.


COUNSELOR: Mm. 


PATIENT: And I didn't feel like I had a right. (inaudible at 3:21) I didn't feel very good when I first left but as I - as the day progressed, I began feeling that - I guess I had - you know, I work in a framework where you get everything down in an ordered way and then you're ready to start. You know. And I had everything outlined as to how I was going to attack therapy and it just didn't work very well (chuckling). And you know. [3:52]


COUNSELOR: So - and I sense now kind of less of these feelings welling up. You're not sure just what went on during that session in the first place but it wasn't exactly what you expected.


PATIENT: It wasn't anything like I expected. 


COUNSELOR: No. And you're not sure what the effect was on me as well as on you.


PATIENT: Right. Yes. I guess I - I guess I want pretty bad to feel like I'm healthier and, you know, that I can become healthier than I actually [really am] (ph). I don't - I don't really know where to start, you know? Or how to do it. And I think it's just a little confused and lost. You know. [4:45]


COUNSELOR: I sense two feelings. You could, one, kind of say that, "I really want to feel better and feel healthier than I do right now. But I also don't feel therapy fits that feeling."


PATIENT: Yes.


COUNSELOR: "I'm functioning. I'm getting along alright."


PATIENT: Yes.


COUNSELOR: And at some moments even feeling, "Well, what am I even doing here?"


PATIENT: Yes.


COUNSELOR: And then on the other hand there's things I'd like to get at (inaudible at 5:08). 


PATIENT: Right, right. And I guess what I felt last week was that I let you see just a little bit and I don't know when is a good time to let you see more; you know, to kind of hone in on one particular point. 


I felt very comfortable about coming over this morning; very much at ease. Now I don't feel very comfortable. (chuckling) I really don't. I don't. Kind of like it's my - I'm on, you know, this time and I have to perform.


COUNSELOR: (sighing) "I'm supposed to do something."


PATIENT: Yes. Yes. Yes. What part of the weekend should I bring out? But it was a good weekend. Right now it's just very confusing to me because I don't know where I am. I think - I think the thing, I guess, that's bothering me most right this minute is where I am with - in our marriage. 


Susan has taken a job. She is working two mornings and two evenings, as I mentioned. Now she's taking another job. And every time she takes a job, then that means I have to shift around. And I don't shift around well. You know. And it's really hard. And now she's going to - so she's got a job teaching two mornings a week and she's going to stop the job at the book store. Which means she'll be home in the evening. You know. And I think it'll be better with - I guess I'm really worried about letting her come first; treating her as a person and yet, not losing my own identity in the process; not becoming her kind of slave. You know. [7:25]


COUNSELOR: Kind of get lost in trying to meet - keep up with changes taking place.


PATIENT: Oh.


COUNSELOR: Keep up with shifts.


PATIENT: That's it exactly. You know, between her working and her therapy, things have been shifting so fast that I'm just nowhere. You know. And this kind of feeling of nowhere is beginning to pervade other areas. (inaudible at 7:47)


COUNSELOR: I hear you saying, "I want to be a person, too, and I don't want to get lost in her process of being one."


PATIENT: (inaudible) Yes. (inaudible) with couples; just couples you're very comfortable with. You know. I feel like we can really - and it's not a whole lot of superficial chit-chat, you know? You can just feel relaxed and with them. And we were talking about encounter groups, because they're in an encounter group. And Susan has really had a tough time with the encounter group idea. She doesn't know whether she wants to go into the encounter group. I've had no problem at all with the encounter group. I know I don't want to go into the encounter group. And she (chuckling) - I'm sure that it's not as simple as I don't need the encounter group, which is what I - you know.


COUNSELOR: Right. [8:46]


PATIENT: I have - you know, I just - it doesn't threaten me because I just know I'm not going in and, you know, it threatens her because she'd like to feel like she could go into one. And suddenly Friday night it became threatening to me because I realized why I couldn't go into one. Because I wasn't about to put myself out unless I had control over it. And that may be what made me feel uncomfortable the moment I stepped in this room. And I feel a sense of maybe I'm not in control of things. I want that, but it scares me. You see. And I think that's what may have scared me about the actuality of therapy; is the fact that I really feel like I need to have some control over it. And I'm resistive, I guess, at the process of coming out at the other end and feeling like I've been changed but I had no say in just how I was changed.


COUNSELOR: (inaudible at 9:50) "Like something might happen to me without my really deciding where I want to go or if I want it to happen."


PATIENT: The other problem that brings up is the fact that - and I know I'm going to sound frantic this morning. I'm just kind of bubbling over (inaudible at 10:07). (whistling sound) 


I think another thing that's bothering me - (inaudible at 10:14). (chuckling) (footsteps) (slapping sound)


COUNSELOR: OK. (inaudible) (whistling sound)


PATIENT: Another thing that really bothers me - maybe you can explain - is the 20 session idea. I understand that I'm only allowed 20 sessions with you. 


COUNSELOR: Yes.


PATIENT: (inaudible at 10:46) 


COUNSELOR: Feel like you'll be abandoned (ph) (inaudible).


PATIENT: Yes, I'd really be afraid that I'll (inaudible) get in there really good. And so when you said last week that you might want to meet me more than twice a week, then I thought, "Oh God, that's using up my 20 sessions much too fast."


COUNSELOR: Oh, oh, yes.


PATIENT: I mean I can - (chuckling) I'll write down all the things and pack it into the hour for you. But you know, I guess that really didn't hit me until I realized - after I'd taken the test - that that was, in fact, what the situation was (inaudible at 11:15). So, that has me (inaudible). I guess I'm seeing somebody who is (inaudible) in therapy and I'm just starting. You know and I just started and I keep seeing that she's just getting into hers and it's been many more than 20 weeks. You know, she's really getting into the areas that bother her.


COUNSELOR: Oh.


PATIENT: And I envy her relaxed surroundings that - you know, she doesn't have this [20 week program] (ph). And ...


COUNSELOR: You're feeling like, "Can I get there in 20 weeks or what'll happen?"


PATIENT: Or do I have to really strain hard and make it really feel uncomfortable? Or let you into the places very quickly that, you know, I don't know if I can and did I really want to? You know. I think that's the thing - that's why I was in hopes that I didn't put you off. And for that I really wanted to be able to let you into places that [that frighten me] (ph). And so, I guess those are the things that ... [12:24]


COUNSELOR: Yes, I get a couple of messages there. One, that I felt earlier that I guess I'd like to respond to now that I sense you really feel concerned about what happened to me in the last session. Did I somehow get - I don't know what - irritated, annoyed and maybe put off in some way or another. And I didn't feel that. I was a little startled when you said that. Like, "Oh." (chuckling) You know. That might make a difference to him in some way. 


PATIENT: Yes.


COUNSELOR: But it didn't put me off. But maybe what you felt was being (inaudible at 13:00). (whistling sound) So, I think, in the first session, that I - because I usually (inaudible) actually and, you know, and giving it plenty of time to get a sense of who you are and try to give you a sense of who I am, all within this kind of formal setting. So I think we've done both sitting here, you know, ... (chuckling)


PATIENT: (inaudible) that's what I felt. And I felt like, "You know, I really think she must have been comfortable." 


COUNSELOR: (inaudible at 13:29) (chuckling) 


PATIENT: (inaudible) (whistling sound)


COUNSELOR: (inaudible) (whistling sound) [13:45]


PATIENT: So anyway, we were with this couple Friday night. And so I was talking and Susan started talking. (whistling sound) And something really came to me, you know, just like a flash. And I started talking again. Well, I interrupted her. And she - and so she automatically thought that this was a direct assault on her; rather than understanding that it was something that I just came to (inaudible at 14:20) direct infringement on her rights. 


And between, I think, the therapy, where she feels more like a person, and the job, where she feels like she can do it - you know, that she really is somebody - there has evolved a sense of complications. You know. "Why have I always been at home here with the children while he's been out in the real world, you know, getting all the - all the grief but all the satisfaction, too?" You know. "Why am I always going to parties and being with him and criticize what he said, but only after we got home did I criticize what he said. And why have I never said anything that showed my own self in person?" You see? So this is the kind of a complication and it just is driving me crazy. You know. 


And I think we're beginning to identify (inaudible at 15:21). And the other day she said she didn't feel like she needed to compete with me on Thursday and then Friday night came along.


COUNSELOR: Right.


PATIENT: You know? And it just completely disarmed (ph) and we stayed up until one o'clock talking about it. (inaudible)


COUNSELOR: So part of your feeling is kind of not sure what's coming next.


PATIENT: Right. I'm very unsure of what's happening. There are feelings that I have that are frightening. There's the feelings of, "Gosh, I think I'd like to get out of this." You know. "I'd like to really get out and (inaudible at 16:02)." That's really the first time I've probably thought those feelings for that reason. Now there have been other times when I've thought those feelings and always feel guilty about thinking them. You know. (clears throat) But this is the first time I've thought about, you know, seriously getting out from under it. [16:27]


But interesting enough, at the same time, I realized - I think almost without too much guilt - that that's not where - what I want. In actuality, her becoming a person has made her much more desirable as a whole person. It just doesn't seem like I can show it to her. She's changing so fast and I just seem to be tagging along behind; just barely able to keep the pace. And I just - that just throws me into a whirlwind and I don't know where I am.


COUNSELOR: (inaudible at 17:10) "feel like I can't find myself when all this going on."


PATIENT: Right.


COUNSELOR: "I need to hold onto it."


PATIENT: And yet, I'm reticent to talk like this because [I'm feeling just the black] (ph) part of it, you know. She at times has been - what do I say? - very understanding, you know, that she is going through change. And you know, she often says, "Well, how do you take it?" You know. I don't know if I'm going to be able to take it when you start changing that rapidly. Which makes me feel better but it also scares me because when am I going to start changing, you know? When do I see myself start changing? Well, I don't. You know. At least in the same manners as herself.


COUNSELOR: It does sound like ["do I oppress you ...", too, "... in some way?"] (ph). "I've got to change and ..."


PATIENT: Right.


COUNSELOR: (inaudible at 18:03)


PATIENT: Right. And ...


COUNSELOR: ... and how?


PATIENT: Yes, this is how. And you see, that's something I have now to work out. I just [really hadn't thought it] (ph), you know, "Don't use my therapy. Don't bring that up as an issue." You know? Because I don't think it's relevant. I think my therapy has really frightened her (inaudible at 18:34) threatening to her. She actually has used it - not used it; she's talked about it. You know, it's just kind of come out several times. I think she doesn't feel like she's able to - she's going to be able to handle what comes out. [18:47]


I just had a thought and I just can't think of it right now. And I really thought [we'd be] (ph) - and really relate the feeling I was having about (inaudible at 19:06) just a blank. So you know - can't think of it. She usually would worry about what's going on here now and she doesn't quite know what to expect. And intertwined in all of this are three little people, you know, who obviously must be catching some of it.


COUNSELOR: So it's not like the two of you can kind of work it out. There's always the sense that they're around it.


PATIENT: Right. Right. And so it had to wait, sometimes, until ten, twelve, three o'clock in the morning (inaudible at 20:03). It's really difficult. (inaudible) about leaving here on Monday to go to Atlantic City. This is the first trip I've taken - well, oh, yes. Actually it's the second trip in our marriage I've taken by myself. And I don't really trust myself. You know. I can begin conditioning myself to protect myself by guilting up - I guess would be a good way to say it. You know. "You're not going to be too friendly with anybody. And especially female. Because, you know, something might happen."


COUNSELOR: Like be careful.


PATIENT: Yes, very much so. Like be careful. And I lose something when I do that. I really - you know, I try to do that in my work and I begin really losing contact with my patients. The males were OK. I felt comfortable around males and I could - there's a different type of sense, you know. I sensed that I couldn't be as open and honest with males, but I'd always lived within that kind of framework and I could handle myself in that framework. With females, I just, you know, they really kind of frighten me. And I'm not sure that it (inaudible at 21:40) to me because I was married. You know. [ 21:42] So if that - if everything goes well Sunday night, then I might be in a little better shape to leave on Monday than if things don't go too well on sunday night. (inaudible) You see. I don't like (inaudible). 


COUNSELOR: It doesn't ...


PATIENT: But that hurts, you know ...


COUNSELOR: Right.


PATIENT: ... that I don't trust myself. And that made me remind me what I was thinking. I feel like sometimes that what I'm feeling or the ways I've always been taught, that there were yeses and nos. There were absolutes, you see, that - and one of those absolutes was "Though shalt not commit adultery." Period. I mean that would be the end of the world for me. That's beginning to open up one of those doors that I don't know that I'm real comfortable with. Because I think that probably hangs me up more than any other. [22:50]


COUNSELOR: Just feeling that bound some way and restricted. 


PATIENT: I'm feeling that - no, not so much the restriction. Well, maybe it is the restriction as much as it is the fear that sometime I may commit adultery and what in the hell am I going to do. You know. What am I going to do? 


COUNSELOR: Like it's such a tight, rigid rule, I guess you're saying, that ...


PATIENT: Right.


COUNSELOR: ... "Boy, if I should happen to break it ..." which is very - you know, is always possible kind of, "... then my world can collapse."


PATIENT: You know. Exactly. How would I face, you know - how would I face Susan, my kids? And that's destructive. You know. That really is destructive. Much the same reason that I have - many of our problems [that deal] (ph) in terms of sex, but then the cause goes back to guilt, you know. She feels guilty if we don't make love, you know, within a certain period, you know - within a certain period, almost irregardless of how I'm feeling, you know, emotionally. [24:04] And I guess I sort of do, too. And we've kind of inbred that in each other. And it makes it very business-like and very this and not much of the sense of spontaneity to it. You know. And therefore, it takes it out of the realm of something that's really enjoyable and puts it into the realm of something that's a have-to. 


So you know, that's when I feel not dealing with the fear I feel right now (inaudible at 24:37) and so alleviate itself. I'm leaving here at 8:30 in the morning and I'm catching the 12:35 plane out of Las Vegas that same night. So, how much trouble can you get in - in what? - 10 hours, 11 hours; whatever it is? (inaudible at 24:55] [I don't like the feeling, either. (ph)


COUNSELOR: But it's - you know, the feeling of having to be wary and cautious; that there is a danger.


PATIENT: Right. And I began to hate the tradition; hate the laws that made me feel that way (inaudible at 25:19). You know. Just like - I guess Friday night's a good example, too; is the fact that I tend to want to just, you know, give completely. And that's what I felt about the other week. I didn't give you anything. And you know, I'm very cautious. And then, that doesn't feel comfortable to me. You know. I feel much better if I'm just - if I - I would feel much better if I would [talk to you] (ph) even if I feel like I didn't open with you. [25:54]


But I've always been told and I'm constantly told, you know, "Don't be so open. Be a little more cautious." And my advisor tells me that. Susan tells me that. You know. My parents were always harping on it. Brings up what my father told me when I went away to college. You know, I was getting on the train and, you know, I wouldn't admit to him that I was scared to death. You know, I wasn't able to ever admit fear to my father. He wouldn't hear it, first of all, so you couldn't talk about it. And he told me, as I got on the train, that whatever I did at college, just keep my mouth shut and to start all over because nobody knew me and to keep my mouth shut whatever I do. [That was on the way to college.] (ph) And that's the word that, you know, I kept with me. I didn't say a thing. I didn't do anything. You know. [26:57]


He also said, you know, don't run for any offices; don't try and be anything. Just study. You know. Like my whole career up to that point had just been, in his eyes, (truck sounds) trivial and frivolous and all (inaudible at 27:18).


COUNSELOR: (inaudible) playing around.


PATIENT: Yes. Yes. And so I'm always kind of, you know, (inaudible). I'm guess I'm not the duck that's, you know, flailing around in the water. It's the one that is the duck that everybody sees and so if they were shooting ducks that day, that's the duck that's going to get it. You know. (truck sounds continuing) And I really feel that people that I knew only peripherally (ph) feel like they had the ability to assess my whole being and then to comment on it. And while I'm able to handle it, it's disturbing. (inaudible at 27:57)


COUNSELOR: (inaudible) know where you are that (inaudible) ...


PATIENT: Right.


COUNSELOR: ... sense of what you want to be like. 


PATIENT: Right. I mean how long can I go on saying, "Well, I'm just getting misunderstood?" with some justification? You know. Or how long can I go on saying, "Well, that's just me"? You know. I accept myself as being somebody who cannot titrate (ph) himself out; section - give a little section here and a little section there. But I go in and I go full tilt. 


(truck sounds continuing) And I guess I want somebody to say it's OK to be that way. Somebody to occasionally say it's OK to be that way. You know. And that's what we were talking about. And it's only been recently that - nobody's ever said that, but the people have said, you know, you're (inaudible) yourself (inaudible). [29:03] 


COUNSELOR: So these were positive responses?


PATIENT: Right, right. Never, though, the response that I'd really like to hear. (inaudible at 29:14) Because I don't think that - you know, think that [they extracted everybody's comments and have been deciding] (ph) to me or may be questioned whether I shouldn't try and discipline myself [or something] (ph). You know. That's a word I don't use a lot. That's the word that was always thrown out to me (inaudible at 29:42) [as the epitome. And that's discipline] (ph); whether it was in athletics or whether it was in studying or whatever. You had to - you had to be rigid. You know. You had to be rigid. You couldn't be (inaudible at 29:56), you know. 


And I guess when everybody else rejected what (inaudible at 30:05) - parents' religion and their parents' this and their parents' that - I rejected the rigidity. 


COUNSELOR: (inaudible) we can't stand being bound this tight. 


PATIENT: So that what people said who are [in authority between law, like my parents] (ph) - there's a teacher who's a very good friend of mine. I (inaudible at 30:32) in my senior high. You know, I really respected him as a teacher. He said, "Well, don't be disappointed when you go to college," he said, "because you may not make it through your first year. You may fail. But there are some, you know - there are some good opportunities for those who can [who have gone to college] (ph)." (inaudible at 30:52) And only recently have I received enough support to think that I'm not dumb (ph). You know. 


And so for 12 years of high - you know, 12 years of schooling, plus about six years of, you know, post-high school, I thought I was making it on my looks and personality; never my mind. (truck sounds continue) You know, that's not a very healthy feeling. 


COUNSELOR: (inaudible at 31:34)


PATIENT: (truck sounds louder) Yes, hustling, hustling. (inaudible) hustle, you know. (inaudible) you didn't have much intelligence, you had to be a good hustler to con them into believing that you knew something that you didn't know. (coughing)


I can feel myself, you know, breaking down some of this rigidity and it's [a scary type of feeling] (ph) because that's easy to live with. You know, you've got it all (inaudible at 32:06). (coughing) Even though, (inaudible) boxes. If you've got it all put together, it's easy to live with.


COUNSELOR: (inaudible) like, "I like those boxes (inaudible) for that reason. But at the same time, I'm continually finding, you know, (inaudible at 32:22) to get out of them." But then, that's scary.


PATIENT: Yes. Getting out of them is scary. Having lived with them for a long time, it makes things like we're going through right now terribly hard because that doesn't fit in a box. Change doesn't fit into boxes, you know, well. [32:42]


So, I knew full well when I came to therapy that - from past experience - that nobody would help me put things back in (inaudible at 33:00). That disappointed me. You know, I kept asking, "Well, when did she say something?" You know, "I think this is right. (chuckling) I think this is wrong. Is she ever (inaudible) going to say that?" You know. Yes. Yes, I really would love for you to but I don't that would be - I don't think that would be worth it anyway (inaudible) because (inaudible).


COUNSELOR: (inaudible at 33:25) would feel very, very nice.


PATIENT: Oh God, would it ever.


COUNSELOR: Then like - then like sort of set it in that framework.


PATIENT: Yes, yes. 


COUNSELOR: But you're also saying, "Don't do (inaudible at 33:36)." (chuckling) "I really want to find it myself somehow but I'm scared."


PATIENT: Yes. And maybe being able to do away with the boxes. You know. I've done away with the boxes in life. 


COUNSELOR: (inaudible at 33:55) it scared you. 


PATIENT: Yes. And I really have felt, too, that outside of Susan, I do not have anybody to talk to. (inaudible at 34:12) sometimes because I haven't had anybody to talk to. (truck sounds) I don't have anything. And that's bothered me, too. (inaudible) I just divorce myself from my whole family. [My little sister when she died] (ph). She was the only person I could even halfway talk to. My brother went away to college and he became very, very rigid; even more so than he was before he went to college. And so, (inaudible at 34:44) very much to do with (inaudible). That leaves a hole. You know. 


COUNSELOR: (inaudible at 34:51) become isolated (inaudible) talk to. (truck sounds louder)


PATIENT: Or on myself.


COUNSELOR: Or on yourself. 


PATIENT: Which is where I always come back to. It's always been that idea that I can make it. That I'm going to make it. You know. And this is something that I think - I think it might be enough (inaudible at 35:22) I talk to myself a lot. I found myself - when I pumped myself up, there were other people that cut me down if I pick myself back up; pumping myself back up. I've talked to her. I ask her, "Do you ever do this" and she doesn't even want to talk about it. What I'm saying is that when they, you know, rip me to shreds, then I say (banging sound), "You're alright. You're fine." You know. "Here's why you're fine. You know. Here's why you can make it." [35:55]


COUNSELOR: And in a way kind of running through a list that this is ...


PATIENT: Sometimes a list. Sometimes this, then sitting back and you know, kind of loving myself. Sometimes it doesn't work very well. You know. I'm finding more and more love. And I'm able to make it on my own still, but it's much nicer and much more pleasant and really much more gratifying if I can make it with (inaudible at 36:38) and if I can see (inaudible). That's very hard, you know? I think I can be very honest with people and very open with people. But to receive their love is (inaudible). Because love was one of the things I had very bad experience with; the love of my parents. Never being accepted (inaudible). (truck sounds very loud) Never being accepted as one of the boys. And never really being loved by a girl, that I could feel and then there could be a reciprocal (inaudible at 37:19). Never really feeling [much love] (ph). 


And so, love kind of fit into a framework, too, of - I called it love. So when people die in my family, it doesn't really [bother me] (ph). (inaudible at 37:38)


COUNSELOR: Like a real sense of distance there (inaudible). "Real love hasn't been there for me. I haven't really (inaudible) really close (inaudible) really cared for."


PATIENT: You're right. That somebody could really, I guess, take care of me. You know. When I no longer can hack it on my own, then somebody could take care of me. And conversely, that if somebody ever did take care of me, then I'd be able to hack it on my own again. But see, these are the - these are the kind of [visions that I bring] (ph). (inaudible at 38:17) It's like - it's like dividing yourself up (inaudible). Here you're a - here you're a very professional person, you know, with all that that implies; indifference, the distance, all of this. And here you're a very warm person. And here you're a very sexual person. But never allowing the three to meet. You know. And sometimes, the bad times being when you try to be warm when you should have been professional, you see. And so you left yourself very vulnerable. And it didn't work. But sometimes it's your (inaudible). (clears throat) [39:16]


COUNSELOR: So the standards slip over somewhere ...


PATIENT: Yes.


COUNSELOR: ... like the boundaries somehow break down.


PATIENT: Right. Right. (inaudible at 39:26) I just wanted to be me. And I think I'm becoming more me (loud knocking sounds) in most situations. (inaudible) I can't become me many times with people like my advisor because he's not him. And I can really sense that I'd be damned if I'm going to over - become over-vulnerable because what he'll do, as soon as he sees that I'm telling him about a weakness, you know, or that I'm showing a weakness, that he's going to try and correct the weakness. You know, that's his job. Well, that's a bunch of - you know, he has the divisions very nicely placed, too, that (clears throat) it's only occasionally that I see any opening into him. You know. It has become more often because he's been under a lot of strain and so I've seen his weaknesses. But he doesn't know, probably, that I have looked and seen his weaknesses. If he did, he wouldn't let me see them.


COUNSELOR: OK, then he's really shutting you off and you certainly don't trust him ...


PATIENT: Right.


COUNSELOR: ... to take you in. [40:42]


PATIENT: Because the times that I've, you know, wanted - the times that I have needed him, OK, he's come off with saying things like, "Well, I'm not going to be your father." You know. Hell, I didn't want a father. You know. To say that he was going to be my father is probably - wasn't going to be my father, it was probably more like my father than to say (chuckling) - to say anything else. You know. Because my father wasn't ever going to pamper and (inaudible at 41:12). So I haven't been able to work that through. (inaudible) 


And so in situations like that, I tend to draw back and not allow - not allow too much vulnerability. And I feel very confident that I don't want to do that. That makes me feel uncomfortable.


COUNSELOR: That makes you feel, again, like part of you isn't there and you want all of you there.


PATIENT: It's like I'm acting, you know, and playing (inaudible at 41:51). But when there's this - here's the situation. It's got to be there. There are other situations, you know. And here, once again, it comes back to mind, he really loved the law, the establishment, you know. Why can't I be a person and be very valuable? Which I think I am, you know, to them. And I'm [tremendously effect] (ph). The research I'm doing is really profound. So that, you know, (inaudible at 42:30) why do I have to keep the rest of me segregated and only show them the profound things. You know. Because if I show them the un-profound things - well and really, you know, how I vacillate back and forth - that I'll be classified as unsteady; therefore, no matter how good I am, you know, this will get around and make it very difficult. [And I'm already classified; I feel I am] (ph). And with some support for that, that I'm classified as aggressive - over aggressive, you know. On occasion, I'm sure the word hyper has come in. Yes. And these are all in derogatory terms. 


COUNSELOR: You're feeling that they're already putting you in boxes in a way and that then this would be another box and it would be a negative box.


PATIENT: It would be a very negative box. And that wasn't - that wouldn't bother me except that, you know, if I was doing the type of work that I could go off on a desert island and be paid for it, but I can't, you know. I depend upon these people to (inaudible at 43:46); you know, write good recommendations. Which I think they will. But you know, it's only because I'm guarding myself. You know. I expect to go up through the ranks and to the level of professor someday and it's only because I'm guarding myself. And I don't like guarding myself. 


COUNSELOR: You don't like feeling well, "Really, a whole part of me that I cannot let them see."


PATIENT: Right.


COUNSELOR: And in a way, that's the kind of scared little boy talking. "I really would like to feel they could see that and I could still (inaudible at 44:21)."


PATIENT: And they could accept that. Yes, yes. OK yes, I do have thoughts. But I don't care about dwelling on them all the time. Sometimes the problems are going to be such that I, you know, I would like to dwell on them for the momentary.


COUNSELOR: (inaudible at 44:38)


PATIENT: I'll say, "You know, look, I'm having problems and these are the problems." You know. "Can you help"? If not, OK. 


COUNSELOR: At least they're out.


PATIENT: And at least they're out. Yes.


COUNSELOR: I kind of sense, too, I guess from the way you're saying it, that where you're really angry is somehow you can't (inaudible at 44:57).


PATIENT: Ah, yes. Very angry. I think that's the - it's a sense of anger, a sense of frustration. You know. It's the same thing, I guess, angers me with Susan. And really until - but see, Susan will go the extra mile. She'll find out what it is that's really bothering me. You know. (snaps fingers) And she can sense, almost immediately, anger. You know. Because I'm quiet. And I'm intense. She can sense there's something wrong. These people can't do that. All they can sense is that I'm quiet and that's unusual. But that's probably very nice. You see. I really have the feeling that what I'm saying is that they, in deference to Susan, don't really accept me. You know, as a person. They accept me as an (clock striking) - as an object or as an entity, but not as a person.


COUNSELOR: Somebody who's doing the research for them.


PATIENT: Yes.


COUNSELOR: But not as (inaudible at 46:02).


PATIENT: Somebody - right, right. And that's not very - is that two? Oh, no. [I've got five more minutes] (ph).


COUNSELOR: [It's quarter of.] (ph) 


PATIENT: (inaudible at 46:11) This is - so these are the feelings that I feel I get from them. And yet, when I - when I verbalize it, it makes them sound awfully bad and me awfully, you know, puritanical and I'm not like that. You know. (inaudible) they're not necessarily bad people. It's just that they're so different. And I guess the only yardstick that I have to use is the fact that friends like Friday night and like last night accept me. But it's the dichotomy that's hard and the fact that those friends - Friday night and the friends last night - they - you know, they'd be glad if they could, [but they try so hard] (ph) but they can't. And you know, I - as resistant as I am to these people over there at the university, they still (inaudible at 47:10). You know.


COUNSELOR: You're feeling like, "Somehow I have to ...


PATIENT: To play their game.


COUNSELOR: ... to play the game with them (inaudible at 47:17)."


PATIENT: But not my game (inaudible).


COUNSELOR: So kind of like now I sense that with the friends, you do feel much more a whole person and that they see many parts of you; see weaknesses and strengths. And you're feeling like with the work situation, you have to just show strengths and you're not sure if they even accept those.


PATIENT: Right.


COUNSELOR: [Uncertain what makes that feel like that.] (ph)


PATIENT: Right. And the combination of indifference - combination of not feeling adequate, if I really analyze it, they're not feeling adequate to cope with anybody else's problem. And that sense of indifference, that I really don't mean anything to them. But I've tried that game and I can't pull it off very well. You know because people really [need something] (ph) ...


COUNSELOR: "But I can't shut them out."


PATIENT: Yes. Well, I've tried. And I wasn't happy at all. (clears throat) I guess that's the other thing that disturbs me the most, is my anxiety over - I'm not going to say adultery because that's very - I'll call it hanky panky. You understand what hanky panky is? That's the other thing that bothers me about hanky panky, is the fact that it would hurt me, it would hurt the person that I was having hanky panky with; it would also hurt Susan. And I just don't want to hurt that many people.


COUNSELOR: [I understand] (ph).


PATIENT: Especially I don't want to hurt me. 


COUNSELOR: (inaudible at 49:05) kind of what really keeps you from it is the feeling of the pain that would be ...


PATIENT: Yes, but I don't know if that's good enough. Yes, I could - I'd hurt afterwards (chuckling), you know. But at the time, it might seem awfully good and the hurt awfully small. You know. 


COUNSELOR: "So can I think of that pain at the time when it really just feels like it would be pleasure?"


PATIENT: Yes. And must I always - why do I always have to think of the pain? You know.


COUNSELOR: Yes. That's the next one. "Why does it hurt?"


PATIENT: Yes.


COUNSELOR: (inaudible at 49:38)


PATIENT: I keep coming back to the fact that [there's laws that other people that I've grown up with] (ph). You know. That the laws have proven that they do hurt. You know. Or the laws make it hurt. So I blame the laws and I get angry at the laws and say, "Why do we have these laws?" Well, then when I analyze that, I begin to see that it's not all the laws. A lot of it has to do with the involvement (inaudible at 50:06). 


COUNSELOR: And if there weren't any laws, there would still be a question in your mind.


PATIENT: Yes, and I just don't like hurting people.


COUNSELOR: I sense you're like a real - a real deep sense of feeling for you that hurting people (inaudible at 50:30); laws or no laws. 


PATIENT: [My time is up.] (ph) 


Hey listen, I think that - you know, can we once again (snaps fingers) - we can discuss this one thing. You mentioned last week about seeing you more than once a week. For the next two weeks, until I get out of this course - I told you about that course. It's so ...


COUNSELOR: Yes.


PATIENT: ... inundating - if it's OK, I think we might just meet once a week, if that's OK with you.


The other thing is I'm getting a little flack from Susan about the idea of (inaudible at 51:13). Because I can do it, you see. I can leave the university and come over here and meet with you, where she always had to get a babysitter. 


COUNSELOR: Oh.


PATIENT: And she's just now - she was being jammed for two hours a session. And she's just now, I think we've arranged it where she can meet twice a week. And yet, I think that you may be right. I would probably like to see you twice a week when this course is over. Even though using it up might take (inaudible at 51:43).


COUNSELOR: Yes. Well, I feel that would be fine with me. (inaudible at 51:49) twice a week (inaudible). I think - the reason I suggested it I guess I said two. I was just feeling like sometimes a week takes too long. 


PATIENT: Yes.


COUNSELOR: Felt alright today. I didn't feel we had (inaudible).


PATIENT: You know what I thought you would say? I thought you said - I thought you were going to say, "Well, let's ..." You know, when I heard you say that, I interpreted it as that's too long; like an hour once a week was too long.


COUNSELOR: Oh. (chuckling) 


PATIENT: And that's how - yes, that's how scared I was. 


COUNSELOR: Oh.


PATIENT: But you weren't going to ...


COUNSELOR: I couldn't spend that much time with you.


PATIENT: Right. (laughing) But you were going to - you were going to say, you know, "No. Please, please. (inaudible at 52:32)"


COUNSELOR: Really you weren't sick enough? "Because I certainly wasn't thinking (inaudible) she doesn't like me or doesn't care enough."


PATIENT: (overlapping voices) Wasn't sick enough or, you know. Was - you know. I'll tell you this where you won't feel bad. I had a fantasy, after I left here, that you went and talked to the head of the whole deal and said, "I want to go back to children again. You know, I had this goof this morning that made me feel like I wanted to go back to children again."


COUNSELOR: Oh.


PATIENT: And you know, I didn't blame you much ...


COUNSELOR: Mm.


PATIENT: ... for feeling that way. But ...


COUNSELOR: (inaudible at 53:15)


PATIENT: OK. 


COUNSELOR: Yes.


PATIENT: OK. How about Thursday? Will Thursday be alright? Next Thursday?


COUNSELOR: I think so. Let me ...


PATIENT: Kind of glad that was my feeling (inaudible at 53:26). (chuckling) Somehow I felt better about it, too. 


COUNSELOR: Having the feeling?


PATIENT: No, the feeling that I'll come back again.


COUNSELOR: Oh. Yes. Thursday at 4:00? Is that ...?


PATIENT: That sounds great.


COUNSELOR: You've had it before, yes. 


PATIENT: Yes.


COUNSELOR: In that spot.


PATIENT: OK. Good.


COUNSELOR: Let me get (inaudible at 53:46) stick in a box. Next Thursday was the 20th, right?


PATIENT: I'll tell you all about whether I made it to Atlantic City or not.


COUNSELOR: Yes. When do you go? This Sunday, you said?


PATIENT: Yes. 


COUNSELOR: Oh. That's an (inaudible at 54:06). Four hours always kind of appalls me. 


PATIENT: Yes. Yeah, I know. But it's the easy way there. (inaudible at 54:21) spend the money. (inaudible) Also, I (inaudible). The thing that's hurting me on situations like that is that that rigid - rigidity I live in ...


COUNSELOR: Yes.


PATIENT: ... means that I can't relate to people. You know. I don't know. I get all sorts of hang-ups.


COUNSELOR: Keep a lot of doors closed.


PATIENT: Right, right. I feel like a combination of a dirty old man and fear that somebody's going to attack me, you know; not physically as much as things that, you know, misunderstand my feelings. You know, like who is this guy? You know? You know.


COUNSELOR: Feeling left out. 


PATIENT: Right. (inaudible at 55:07)


COUNSELOR: (inaudible) Bye.


END TRANSCRIPT
