<font size="4"><b>Chapter X: The Poisoned Brain</b></font>

DAMAGE to the mind is more frightening than damage to
the body; there is scarcely an alcoholic who in moments of
depression does not picture himself seized with delirium
tremens. He has hallucinations, plenty of them, when he
is on a bender and it wouldn't surprise him to be stampeded
by pink elephants any night. This is the end which
has been predestined for him in song, story, and cartoons
ever since the temperance movement swept over our country
a hundred years ago. But even this doesn't frighten
him very long. Dr. Fleming says he put alcoholic patients
in the disturbed wards of the psychiatric department in
a hospital and they came out white and shaken, saying
they'd never touch the stuff again, but he has never known
fear to restrain a single one of them.


Acute drunkenness, or, as Immanuel Kant puts it, "the
unnatural state of inability to organize sense impressions
according to the laws of experience," is recognized as a
poisoning of the brain, but it is not considered a mental
disorder and the alcoholic is held responsible for his acts
before the law. There is, however, a form of intoxication,
"pathological intoxication," in which the sufferer is seized
with a fit of ecstasy or rage that often leads to suicide or
crimes of violence. This state does not last longfrom a
few minutes to two or three hoursand is particularly
puzzling and distressing to the layman, because the state
has none of the symptoms of the ordinary bingeno

[p. <i>97</i>]

Delirium tremens, the mental disorder with which we
are most familiar through legend and story, is not so bad
as it used to be painted; the myth has been modified, if
not destroyed, by science, but it takes a long time to die.
There is no question that excessive drinking causes serious
harm to the brain, but the harm has been confused in
the popular mind by failing to distinguish between the results
of the alcohol and the original mental disorders
which already may be present. A small percentage of alcoholics
without a mental disorder do develop alcoholic
psychoses. According to Dr. Edward A. Strecker of Philadelphia,
alcoholism accounts for about 5 to 10 per cent of
all mental diseases. As to those that may be precipitated
by excessive drinking, few scientists would venture to hazard
figures on them, but the general opinion is that if the
mental disorder appears late in the drinking history the
drinking may have been a precipitating agent.


However, most excessive drinkers stay on the side of
sanity. They become irresponsible, emotionally unstable,
unreasonable, suspicious, sometimes even violent toward
their family or friends, who, they feel, reproach them for
drinking, but they still realize what they are doing. They
have not yet passed into the stage in which they are dominated
by hallucinations.


Delirium tremens itself does not occur as often as we

[p. <i>98</i>]

This dramatic condition, which usually comes on at
night, has been described so many timesthe fear, the
nightmares, the convulsions., the tremors that sometimes
seize the whole body, the hallucinationsthat they need
not be repeated. The objects that people these deliriums
are usually animals running, always moving; dogs, cats,
birds, insects, snakes. In institutions where continuous
water baths are a part of the treatment, crabs and lobsters
sometimes replace the traditional white mice. Most of the
illusions are visual, and if there are noises, music, or
threatening voices, they are usually connected with objects
that the patient sees.


One of the interesting characteristics of the delirium is
the ease with which patients receive suggestions. They will
see almost any vision that the imagination of the attendant
can conceiveall except one. They can never be confused
as to their own identity.


My only experience with the disease was when I tried to
pull a big Swede out of an attack which I thought was delirium
tremens, although, of course, I might have been
mistaken. It was during the time before I met Missy when
I was pounding the Brooklyn streets looking for a job and
lapping up all the liquor that I could get for cash or
credit at Tim's place, a grubby little basement speakeasy
on Atlantic Avenue. Sven also was one of the steady patrons;
that is, when he had the price of a drink. He had

[p. <i>99</i>]

Sven had been the driver of a beer wagon in the days
before prohibition when beer wagons, with their teams of
great matched percherons, were a handsome sight. Their
drivers were the kings of the trade. Sven still walked with
a swagger, but it was half a slouch, for he never seemed to
be very steady on his feet. He was barely tolerated by Tim
and never allowed to penetrate the back room, which was
kept sacred to those of us who still had a room and clean
clothes once in a while. Sven's clothes were so grimy that
they looked as though he had rolled in coal dust and
heaven knows when he had had a bath. Still we all felt
sorry for him and when we had pawned an overcoat or
made a touch on a friend who hadn't yet been milked dry
we bought him a drink.


One night I came home from Tim's very late. I had received
five unexpected dollars from an old fraternity
brother in Ohio who had been touched by a begging letter
from me and I had been setting up the drinks. As I shambled
up the grubby back street toward the room for which
the landlady still trusted me, I almost stumbled over a
body lying in the doorway. It was Sven. He was mumbling
and twitching all over in a horrible jerky way, his face,

[p. <i>100</i>]

"Get up," I told him, but he didn't want to move; he
just kept babbling at me and twitching.


I climbed over him and unlocked the door, but I couldn't
leave him there, so I dragged him up the creaky stairs to
my room and dumped him on the bed. There was a cut on
the side of his head, as though he had fallen on the edge
of a step or something sharp. I tried to sponge away the
dried blood, but my own co-ordination was none too good.


As I worked over him, his mumbling became more coherent.
He was seeing things and sometimes his voice rose
to a tortured shriek. He was driving his old brewery horses
and they were running away. They got larger and larger,
they were as big as a room, as a house, and they were running
faster and faster through rivers that were swallowing
them to their necks, dashing head on into walls and down
steep grades into the sea, with Sven dragging on the reins.
His hallucinations were so vivid that I saw the horses too
and felt their hooves pounding into my brain.


Meanwhile, the twitching continued; his whole body
jerked in a horrible syncopation. He couldn't keep on like
this; nobody could. I was wrenched with pity and a desperate
feeling that I must do something, but in my fuddled
state I couldn't think what it should be. Dousing my head
with the remainder of the water in the pitcher to clear it
a little, I ran out into the street to look for a policeman. It
was daybreak, gray and grim and chilly, with a slight
frost on the cobblestones. Not a soul was around. Finally
I found a cop drinking coffee in an all-night stand. He
called an ambulance before he started off with me, then
we hurried along the slippery street. The policeman's
boots were so good and stout they sounded like the clopping
of a horse. I resented them because my own were

[p. <i>101</i>]

When we climbed the stairs, Sven was still hauling at
the reins of the brewery horses, but he was feebler, his
voice was dying out, and his twitches were not so violent.


"Pretty bad," the cop said, wiping off the perspiration
on Sven's forehead with his handkerchief, "but we'll get
him to the hospital." King's County Hospital was the only
one that accepted alcoholics then.


When Sven had been carted downstairs to the ambulance,
I stripped off the sheets, sour with his sweat, and
threw myself on the mattress, cold sober and shaking with
fear. Two days later I went to the hospital to see what had
happened to Sven. He was still alive; in fact he looked so
different in a clean hospital bed, with his face washed and
his hair combed, that I scarcely recognized the man. He
grinned sheepishly and said it was wonderful to have three
meals a day.


What became of Sven after that I never knew. He didn't
show up again at Tim's, but we were all too concerned
about financing our next drink to wonder what had happened
to him. Every once in a while the memory of his
suffering that night disturbed me, but I thrust it out of
my mind. It had nothing to do with me; I would never get
down that far.


Since the time of my first introduction to delirium tremens
the treatment for it has undergone a change. In
those days many physicians considered the state to be precipitated
by the sudden withdrawal of alcohol, and hence
favored a tapering-off process. Now the majority of
physicians are convinced that withdrawal of alcohol has
nothing to do with it. Although this disease was formerly
regarded as a killer, digitalis is now used to take care of
the extreme exhaustion of the heart and it is rarely fatal.

[p. <i>102</i>]

A disease that resembles delirium tremens but differs
from it in that it lasts longer and is not brought on by
any particular spree is acute alcoholic hallucinosis. The
tremors occur only at the beginning, the hallucinations
are auditory, and the patient is usually aware that they
are delusions. This state is so like early schizophrenia that
some psychiatrists refuse to consider it as a separate disease,
but consider it "a schizophrenic reaction released by
alcohol."


And then, of course, there is Korsakoff's Psychosis,
which is perhaps the severest form of chronic alcoholism.
Although delirium tremens never caught up with me, Korsakoff's
Psychosisor a very good facsimiledid, and I
have described my own symptoms in such detail that I
shall not repeat them here. My symptoms were typical
even if, as Dr. Cline believed, my condition was acute barbiturate
poisoning rather than the syndrome of the distinguished
Russian. This disorder is such an interesting
one that it has been the subject of an amount of medical
literature out of all proportion to its frequency. Only
about one in every hundred chronic alcoholics is stricken
with it.


The alcoholic disease that we see most often is labeled
"chronic alcoholic deterioration." All of us are familiar
with a number of excessive drinkers whose ethical standards
have begun to slip and whose exaggerated ego, suspicions,
and jealousy make them a nuisance to their
friends, yet who are able to express such beautiful sentiments
that they still move us and, against our better judgment,
convince us that they are sincere. We are not so
likely to know their physical symptoms, but they are a
part of the picture: heart trouble, flabby muscles, fine
tremors, some degree of polyneuropathy, and a general
lowering of their resistance to disease.

[p. <i>103</i>]

This is perhaps the most difficult of alcoholic diseases
with which a family has to cope, because it has no well-marked
stages and the ethical deterioration is so gradual
that it is deceptive and often heartbreaking to the alcoholic's
friends.


One such case that always has haunted me was that of
a friend of mine in the State of Washington, a doctor who
had come West from his home town back in Virginia. He
was a fine specimen of a man, a Southern gentleman of
distinguished family with gracious manners and a splendid
education. He soon established a large practice and
became one of the leading physicians in Yakima. We used
to have a drink together occasionally. I was drinking fairly
regularly then and the doctor used to come across to the
saloon in his frock coat (it was the business suit of doctors
in those days) and get a "quickie." We were on the skids
together, although neither of us realized it. The doctor
began to lose his practice. He sent home for money and his
brother always responded with a little, but not enough for
the doctor to keep up appearances. He had a warm,
friendly personality and he couldn't endure the censure of
the town. When he disappeared, I had so many troubles
of my own that I lost track of him.


Some months later I went to Spokane and saw his name
one day in the window of a doctor's office. I went in and
found him working for a quack venereal-disease outfit for
fifty dollars a week.


Spokane harbored several of these phony medical organizations,
set up to catch the lumberjacks who came
down from the winter camps with a season's wages in their
pockets and the intention of painting the town. These
quack outfits had a standard way of relieving them of
their wads. Driven by lurid advertisements in the papers,
the lumbermen came. First they were given an X-ray

[p. <i>104</i>]

In spite of his seediness and his embarrassment at being
found in such a shady place, the doctor was his old gracious
self. We had a few drinks together. I tried to warn
him about the danger of staying with such a concern, but
soon saw that he felt no slightest qualm about the work he
was doing. It didn't worry him to be fleecing ignorant men
with no knowledge of medicine; this was a job and he had
to eat. This man, who had been a stickler for ethical conduct,
felt no remorse about being a "bottle-sucking
quack," although it humiliated him to be called one. The
old appearance of sensitivity and refinement was there,
but inside, all the finer sensibilities, of which he had so
many, were almost atrophied.


For a time I saw him every now and again, always with
an unbelief that he could have sunk so low. Finally the
State Medical Society threatened to revoke his license. I
went with him to Pullman, Washington, to represent him,
for if a doctor's license is revoked he has a right to appeal.
He tried to stay sober for the meeting, but he couldn't do
it; he loaded up first with a few drinks to kill his anxieties
and give him confidence. We listened to the charges. They
were all indisputable; there was no point to denying them.
But when he had heard them through he did a dramatic
thing. He broke down and wept and, with sobs in his voice,
made the most moving plea I have ever heard, telling how
drink had ruined him; how he had lost his practice, his

[p. <i>105</i>]

The doctor promised to straighten up, but soon he was
in trouble again for the same kind of shady practice. This
time he didn't get off so easily. He wrote to his brother for
railroad fare and returned to Virginia, where he died very
soon after. He had been a splendid doctor and a gentleman.
He remained a gentleman until the end, but his essential
personality was gone; he was nothing but a shell, with
his integrity eaten away by the termites of alcohol.

