Transcript of Audio File:
______________________________________________________________________________
BEGIN TRANSCRIPT:
THERAPIST: Hi, come on in. You can always come in when the door is open.
CLIENT: Okay. How are you?
THERAPIST: Good, thanks. I wanted to let you know that the Monday that I'm out, the following Tuesday, I don't have an 8:15. I only have a 7:15.
CLIENT: Okay.
THERAPIST: Would you be able to do that, or is that too late?
CLIENT: I just need to make sure with my job that it's okay. I can probably switch those two.
THERAPIST: Okay, great. So that's the 7th I won't be here, so that's the 8th.
[01:21.1]
CLIENT: Okay, cool. I'm like — I'm sorry. I was in a class at my gym and I just totally messed up my back. I don't know what I did. I've never had back problems. I don't know what I did. We weren't even doing anything strenuous. We were doing — it's really dorky — just like punching, and then all of a sudden, I don't know, I pulled something. I had to leave class, which I hate, it's so embarrassing. I was right at the front, and I had to pack up all my stuff, because you have all these weights and the steps and all this stuff that you have to pack up. I felt really embarrassed that I had to leave, but I didn't want to keep messing it up. But then of course I start thinking that I had a heart attack or something. I immediately go to the worst possible case scenario for everything.
[02:29.8]
I was able to talk myself down from it by saying even if this is a heart attack, which it isn't, it's really not that bad. (laughter) You're fine, you're walking around, you went to CVS and got pain reliever (inaudible at 02:46.2), so is it that bad if it is? Which is how I talked myself down from it. But that's something recent that I do, like within the last few years. I didn't used to be that intense and that terrified about, just that scared, like it's a scared feeling that overcomes me like something terrible is happening.
[03:19.5]
I didn't used to have that. I don't know what happened in the last few years that suddenly makes me irrational. It's totally irrational because I'm not having a heart attack. A lot of times I'm paranoid about food allergies, which is ludicrous because I haven't had any allergies to food since I was a little kid. I have all these things that started over the last few years. I don't know where it comes from. I don't know what it's about, but I can't — it hasn't really been an issue too much recently.
[04:16.8]
Like today. Why can't I just accept the fact that I just might have pulled something in my back? But instead I'm fixating on this idea that it's a much bigger problem. It sucks. It hurts, and I don't want it to hurt for very long. But that's what the problem is. The problem is not something bigger. I don't know. (pause) Because there's just these two contrasting parts of my brain where one is saying "You're being really illogical. You're not making sense, and you're being kind of crazy." The other part of me is thinking "This is definitely happening. This is definitely happening right now, and something bad is going wrong."
[05:17.1]
And they just — one takes over for a second, then the other side takes over for a second. It's like an argument in my head (laughter) between the logical rational and then just the fear. I don't know. It's disconcerting. (pause) Anyway. (pause) It all kind of started around the time that I started having anxiety attacks when we moved here. That's when I felt this kind of feeling, like something is going wrong but I don't — that's worse than it is.
[06:24.2]
I didn't used to have that. That was the first, that's when it started. (pause) I don't know. (pause) It's very weird. (pause) [I want to be] rational about things instead of getting so worked up and getting so tense. Anyway. (pause)
[07:20.7]
Because even when I say to myself "It's just a pulled muscle. You're fine. It's probably just a pulled muscle," I'm like "I heard that story about that guy who pulled a muscle in his back and it formed a blood clot, and the blood clot got trapped and went to his brain and he couldn't walk." (laughter) The reason that story is such a big deal is because it doesn't usually happen. Even when I can be rational about thinking about what it probably is, I can still talk myself into something terrible that would happen even in that scenario. (pause) I'm not normal. (pause) Do you know what it is? (laughter) What is that? Is it just paranoia? What's wrong with me? (laughter)
[08:41.9]
THERAPIST: It worries you.
CLIENT: Yeah. [I want it solved.] (laughter)
THERAPIST: Yeah. That you have these thoughts really worries you.
CLIENT: Yeah. Because it feels crazy. It's like "Just be normal. Just relax. You're fine. You're standing here right now, aren't you? You're moving around." (laughter) (pause)
[09:35.3]
I feel like I sound like Chris, because Chris has all these worst case scenarios all worked out in his head. And I feel like I sound like him. I have all my worst case scenarios worked out. (pause) Part of me wonders if the reason — when that all started was when we moved here together, and was I feeling that was a terrible mistake and a bad idea? And is that what I was having a negative reaction to? Or what? And then that scares me because — I don't know. (pause)
[11:06.7]
Because I was definitely afraid when we moved here together. Not before we did it, but once we got here, and I felt I'm trapped here with this person now. Here I am, I put myself in this situation, and I can't believe I did this. I just remember feeling totally trapped and feeling like "Oh my God, what did I do. There's no reversing this. This is it." And not because necessarily him even. It would be like during normal situations, like us having a typical argument or him having a habit that bothered me, just things that were — and then me just panicking like "I'm stuck here. What did I do? I moved everything across the country to this city I've never lived in, with this guy? What did I do?"
[12:14.5]
And I hated feeling like that, because I love him. I love him so much, but I didn't want to be there. I think that's what it all came from. I just didn't want — I felt really trapped. I think it has manifested itself now into this whole other thing. (pause) Because I don't feel that way anymore. I genuinely do not. I don't feel trapped. I don't feel stuck. But I definitely did for at least the first two years that we were here. I felt like "Holy shit. You were — that wasn't a good idea."
[13:23.2]
And not because of him. Just because of backing myself into a corner. (pause) And then I remember feeling so relieved because — and then we got engaged and I wanted to marry him and I loved him so much and I was so thrilled. But I had these two conflicting, just like I do all the time, these two conflicting thoughts of "I want to marry him. I want to be with him forever," but then I'd have another thought like "I want to run away. I don't like being trapped here. This feels awful. This doesn't feel right." I have these two really conflicting things going on, and then we got engaged. I was planning [on running] and I got — every once in a while I had this moment like "This is maybe a terrible idea. What are you doing? Are you this stupid that you're going to do this?"
[14:34.4]
And I remember feeling so relieved when other girlfriends got engaged and said they felt the same way, and they would have these feelings of — some of them I couldn't relate to, like "I could do better" or things like that. And I definitely can't relate [to that.] (laughter) But other feelings of "I shouldn't do this" and regretting it. I remember thinking "Thank God I'm not the only one who feels that way, and I'm not the only one who" — I don't know. (pause)
[15:38.1]
I don't know where I'm going with all this. (pause)
[16:28.5]
But I think the reason I had so much anxiety was because I wouldn't really let myself feel those negative things, or to think them and definitely not say them to anybody. Just keep them all in and locked in the back back back, and I think that just really manifested itself in these other things. I think I was just terrified, and I just wasn't letting myself think it or say it, because I wanted to project this image to everyone else and to myself that I was happy now, and I had made it and I was in this successful relationship and it was so great. But I was scared out of my mind.
[17:33.2]
And I would have these images of him changing into this — like I'd be in my room and he'd be in the living room, and I would have this image of him changing and coming in and killing me. Or coming in and hurting me. Chris has never done anything remotely close to anything violent. Never in a million years. But I would have this fear take over me that he would change into this other person, and he would be something scary and terrible and evil. I would just have these flashes of it and I would want to run away and shut down. (pause)
[18:49.2]
I mean, I know where that comes from obviously. You know, obviously, I wasn't going to say anything about it. He'd be like "That's a weird thing to say," and I'm like "Sometimes when I'm laying in bed alone at night, I have a fear that you're going to come in and beat the shit out of me or try to kill me." Because it's totally irrational and ludicrous. (pause) I guess I'm just afraid because every other long-term relationship I had seen seemed awful. (pause)
[19:52.2]
I didn't trust that I could have something different and I could have something good. (pause) So now I think I'm having a heart attack. (laughter) It's just so funny to me. It's all such a — (pause) What a crazy person. (pause)
[21:00.3]
Sometimes when I tell him certain things, I know he will take it so personally. (pause) Because he would think like "What have I done that would make you afraid of me, or what did I do that would make you feel that way?" And I don't feel like I could adequately explain that he is just the stand-in for — put that onto anybody. He is just a placeholder for the backlog of feelings that I'm projecting onto him. But the way I feel like — (pause) I could never say "The men in my life were scary and looked at people who would hurt you, so sometimes I am terrified that you will" because he would think like "What did I do to you?"
[22:14.8]
THERAPIST: You imagine that he wouldn't understand that.
CLIENT: Uh-huh. (pause)
[23:07.7]
I just wish I could've just taken myself and shaken myself at that time and said "If this isn't what you want, why are you doing this?" Because I feel like I've ruined it for myself. I feel like we have to make up a lot of ground because of me putting myself into a situation I wasn't ready for. And even though he is maybe the right person, that wasn't the right situation. And I feel because of that, I damaged a big part of our relationship, and now I have to do all this work to kind of repair it. I'm pissed at myself for doing that because if we'd just stayed in California another year, I had continued to have my own space and feel more secure, and then we'd come here when he was in school, I feel like it could have been better and I'd feel like I'm not trapped into this, there's options.
[24:21.3]
But I didn't give myself enough time. I was too head-over-heels and too caught up in the moment in this whole fairy tale idea of everything great, and I was dating this great guy who was going to go to law school, and everything was going to be magical. And I was just — I don't know. I just wish I hadn't leapt into that so fully and just given myself time to — I don't know. Just some time. I'm not unhappy about where I am right now. I'm unhappy about how I got here and maybe the things I did to him and to us in the process. Because I feel like we have a rocky foundation because of things that didn't go right. (pause)
[25:31.9]
THERAPIST: Like what?
CLIENT: Like me moving here with him and not being into it, not being happy about it, and wasn't happy about it. I was excited about it in the planning while we were living in California. I was really excited about it. I thought it was this great idea and I was so thrilled. And then we moved here and I was miserable. I was lonely. I was making no money. It was just the two of us and I hated it. I hated it. And then I hated myself for hating it because I was supposed to be in this great relationship and I had this great guy and everything was great. And I just felt burdened by all of it. Felt burdened by him and his trying to get into law school. He had charges back in California from a fight that he was doing this whole thing with. I felt burdened by that. I just felt burdened by all of it.
[26:35.3]
I felt like just resentful and angry and I didn't like it. I felt a lot of times like "I want to break up with this guy. I want to run away. But what am I going to do? I live in this apartment with him in this city I don't know with nobody else here. What am I going to do?" I [went through] literally 20 seconds of thinking that at a time. But I would push it away and see everything great. I would see like "He's so nice to you. He doesn't do anything wrong. He doesn't do anything. It's all me being the one who can't handle this." And I think if I had just not put myself in that situation, if I could have just not felt so much responsibility for him and felt trapped — I think moving in together made me feel trapped.
[27:41.1]
Moving in together in a place where I didn't know anybody, [to have no support], made me feel totally alone. Like I only had him, and I hated that feeling. I didn't want to have just him. I couldn't handle that. (pause) When I think if I had taken a more natural process instead of me throwing myself into that, I would have gotten to the same place eventually but — I don't know.
THERAPIST: And what would the natural process have looked like?
[28:26.7]
CLIENT: Taking time and waiting until we had known each other more than a year. I don't know. (pause) Leaving myself more options, I guess. I mean, at the same time, I don't know if we would have stayed together if I had maybe left myself those options, because I think I would have been really scared like I was and said "I'm outta here" and probably just taken off. (pause)
[29:29.5]
THERAPIST: What kind of charges were against him in California?
CLIENT: Chris and his friends used to get into a lot of fights in California. And his friends and him, after their college graduation, were at a bar and a fight broke out. Him and his friends beat this one guy up, and then all his friends left and Chris was the last one left, looking for his coat or something. Then the cops came and Chris was arrested. I don't know. It was assault of some sort. (pause) Charming.
THERAPIST: Why did Chris beat people up?
[30:19.3]
CLIENT: Good question. I think Chris had a lot of un-dealt with anger about his OCD, and I don't know. There was a lot of fighting in his high school. It was just kind of like a lot of guys, this whole big culture surrounding fighting, and all his friends were into it. I don't know. I guess that's just kind of what they did. I don't know. (pause) It's not a cute look. It certainly is something that has followed him and definitely hasn't made it easy on him. (pause)
[31:22.7]
I don't know if I know why exactly. There's probably a few reasons. (pause) I don't know. For some reason, I don't think of it as that big of a deal because it was always like him and his buddies would get into a fight with a group of other guys. I don't know why. For some reason that changes it than if Chris would just sock some guy out. I don't know. For some reason, it's different to me. I don't know why. Obviously it's not different at all. (pause)
[33:07.1]
THERAPIST: What were you thinking?
CLIENT: I don't know. I was thinking about how my opinion of that situation has changed over the years, in that when we were 22 when that first happened and it felt like "You're such an idiot." But kind of like "Well, he could always protect me if something bad happens. (chuckles) I know he can throw a punch if something happened." It was kind of like — I don't want to say proud of it because that's weird — but kind of like "Oh, he's like my tough boyfriend. He's so tough." And now I'm mortified. It's so embarrassing now. And it's embarrassing to admit that my husband has been arrested for fighting. That's really embarrassing and really tacky.
[34:09.8]
It sounds really, I don't know, just sounds so different in my head than it did five years ago when it happened. Yeah, I don't know. (pause) I mean, I think also because of the fact that it just haunted us for this whole — I mean, he had the charges, it was going to court, then it was doing community service, then it was applying at all the schools and listing on the application, and now it's listing it on job stuff, and it's just been haunting him the whole time. And it haunts me by extension because I'm having to hear about it, first of all, and having to face the fact that this is going to affect his ability to get a job.
[35:21.1]
And now is it going to affect him with the Bar, and what did he write in his application for school, and all this stuff. And now it just pisses me off. "You stupid idiot, why" — because he wasn't even the one who had the charges brought against him. The eyewitness account was actually something his friend had done. He wasn't even the one who had done it, but he was the one who was there when the cops showed up, so he was the one who was charged. (inaudible at 36:02.6) and now I'm just angry. "You are such a moron. You had so much going for you, and maybe you didn't lose it, but maybe you didn't get into certain law schools. You idiot." So that changes it for me a little bit. (pause) Chris. He sounds (chuckles) — he's really not like — I feel like I make him sound like a nut. (pause)
[37:36.3]
THERAPIST: Why?
CLIENT: (Chuckles) It's like the only things I talk about are his OCD and getting into fights. It doesn't paint a very pretty picture. (pause)
THERAPIST: Do you feel like I would judge you?
CLIENT: Uh-huh. I would.
THERAPIST: Well you do.
CLIENT: (Chuckles) I do, yep. (pause) Yeah, I don't know. I'm always wanting everyone to have a high opinion of Chris because I do and because [well, a long time ago, but] obviously it reflects on me. (pause)
[39:27.1]
I don't know what I want to do about this back thing today. I'm picking the baby up all of the time. (pause) I don't know. (chuckles) Anyway. (pause) I can't think of anything.
[40:22.5]
THERAPIST: I think sometimes when things bother you, it's hard to know where to go next with them.
CLIENT: Yeah. (pause) Definitely. (pause) Well, yeah, I guess I don't know what to do with anything. Like if I say "This bothers me," then so what? I don't know what to do with it. It's like so — (pause). There's not a lot of choice for a lot of the things that bother me, except for how I feel about them. And at the moment, this is the way I feel about it. (pause)
[41:38.1]
For the moment, I'm angry at my husband for being a moron and fighting. But you can't change it, this is what's happening now. But I can't hear him bitch about it one more time. (pause) This stupid Bar application. He's mad because on the Bar application, you have to list any time he's gone to see anyone for — if he's ever been to see a therapist. And as a condition of our marriage, I asked him to go see somebody for — you know, when we got engaged, I said "I don't want to marry you if the OCD is still such an issue," so I asked him to go see somebody.
[42:35.3]
And he went for six months and it was a huge help, but then he stopped. But he has to list that now on his Bar application, and he's like — he was pissed one day about it and saying "I knew this was a terrible idea, and now I have to list if I was diagnosed with anything, and everyone is going to know my business." And then I just got pissed because what I felt like he was saying was "You made me do this, and now this is your fault because you made me do this." And I was saying "I think the pros outweigh the cons here because it was a huge help for us in our relationship and it was a really big help for you at the time. I'm sure you're not the first person to ever go seek professional help who wants to be admitted to the Bar. So I don't really understand what — I don't think it's going to keep you from getting admitted."
[43:40.9]
And he was like "I know, I just don't want everybody to know my business." Some faceless person you are never going to see, never going to talk to, never going to know. I think it's not — I don't know. I just felt like it was an attack on me because I was the one pushing it. Which I guess was the problem in me pushing it. I guess he should have wanted to go fully on his own, but then he never would've gone. (chuckles) (pause) I mean, he had to want to go a little bit on his own. I can't force him to do anything. (pause) It just pissed me off because when he was going, he was saying how much it was helping and how much better he felt and how great it was. (pause)
THERAPIST: We're going to need to stop for today. Next week is a regular week and then the following week you can let me know on Monday if 7:15 on Tuesday works for you. That would be the 8th.
CLIENT: Okay, great.
THERAPIST: Okay, take care.
CLIENT: Thank you.
THERAPIST: Okay, bye-bye.
END TRANSCRIPT
