TRANSCRIPT OF AUDIO FILE:
______________________________________________________________________________
BEGIN TRANSCRIPT:
THERAPIST: A few administrative things. First, so we're all set for scheduling? Mondays mid-day, Wednesdays this time? Okay, good. Second, I'm really sorry about this past Monday, having to cancel.
CLIENT: As it turned out, I was getting sick, so it actually turned out well in a weird way. 
THERAPIST: I'm sorry you were getting sick, but I'm glad it sort of let me—yeah. The other thing is I gave some thought to the bill that I have never gotten together for you, at least not in quite a long time. The last time I looked at it, it was on the order of $8-900. If this seems reasonable to you, I can go and figure out in more detail what it is, but what if we called it $500 and we just have some regular plan for some period of time until we've finished off with it?
CLIENT: So for a while we were doing a regular swipe and I also thought that there was something about you recording sessions?
THERAPIST: Yeah, that can certainly take care of all of your co-pays. Balance had been like $1,100 and you were paying about $30 a week just towards the balance as opposed to your co-pays. I haven't looked at it. I will go through it if you like. It really has not gone down that much. I think that was on the order of $800, maybe a little bit more. 
CLIENT: I was just wanted to make sure that those were . . . 
THERAPIST: No. That was accounted for. 
CLIENT: Yes. As far as what I'm seeing, $500 is fine.
THERAPIST: I wanted to do something that was quite a bit lower than what it actually was. If that seems at all like it might not be lower, I'm happy to adjust.
CLIENT: Honestly, I have no idea.
THERAPIST: I will glance at it then, but I'm pretty sure that's quite a bit lower.
CLIENT: As long as you had also thought of the two things, I'm sure you are correct.
THERAPIST: No. I certainly have the co-pays in mind. Why don't we plan on that? I will go double check it. It's easy for me to do and just make sure that ballpark is well above that. 
CLIENT: If we did $50 a week, that would knock it out in ten weeks? 
THERAPIST: That certainly works for me. That's all right. That's all the administrative stuff I've got. [00:03:12]
CLIENT: So the non-administrative, although kind of: Monday I was kind of getting sick and I was in this intense denial about it for most of the day, so a friend of mine was like, "I think you're sick." It's one of those things where I'm like, "Wow, air conditioning is blasting only on the back of my neck. It's really weird. (therapist laughing) And I'm having cold chills, but that's just because the air conditioning is only in the back of my neck." And I did this whole thing in my head and then I was just kind of telling a friend of mine and she was like, "You know, I don't think that's actually happening." But I was just like, "Well I got my hair wet this morning so maybe my neck is still cold," and she was like, "No. You're just sick," so I went home. [00:04:08] The other thing is that I also kind of realized that I've been feeling really exhausted and crappy and upset for a while. I thought it was just my summer class, which really is driving me crazy and so my head was like, "Okay, so my class is over and now I'm going to feel less stressed and be able to do things and it will be great," and I haven't really felt any better. I kind of realized that on Monday because I was doing the very stoic like, "No, I'll just stay at work. It's fine." Also just sort of the completely not missing what was going on with myself like, "What is it? I have no idea." I don't know. It was not really registering how I was feeling and I was kind of dizzy and felt horrible and was totally having cold chills and all of these other things. I'm confused and worried about feeling really stressed and crappy because during the summer I was like, "This is very situational and it's killed my summer, but whatever. It's done in six weeks." I'm really not feeling any better. [00:06:07]
After my class was ended, which was the last day of July or first day of August or something like that, I sent a bunch of e-mails to people being like, "My class is over. I can do X, Y, and Z," including that I was wanting to write an article or an essay for a book that everybody was asking me about; and I was like, "I'm really busy with this class. I'll get back to you when I'm done." And then the other day I was like, "Oh." I was looking at my e-mails and I'm like, "It's been two weeks since I told her that now that my class is over I'd be happy to write this for you," and I still feel really overwhelmed by the idea. I'm totally avoiding it. Thinking about it makes me super upset for no reason and I'm overthinking everything to do with the essay, which are all things to me that are usually like, "Oh, it's February. I feel really shitty,"] but it's August. (pause) [00:07:43]
THERAPIST: I have a few things in mind. Let's go first with what comes to mind.
CLIENT: The pressure that comes to mind first is about my tendency [ ] (inaudible at 00:07:59), which, having had a couple of weird medical things, I'm always like, "Sometimes I'm right for being crazy about being convinced a weird symptom is meaningful. This has been going off and on for a while. Is my exhaustion to do with a chronic illness that I don't know about? Could it be celiac, which can do that? Could it be unknown chronic illness that I'm not really aware of?" and just vague medical theories. I'm getting a physical in a month because my doctor asked me to. (laughs)
THERAPIST: I think you were doing a pretty bad being a hypochondriac on Monday, right? When you were in denial of not feeling well? (chuckles) People, I guess, can look into different things at once but . . [00:09:12]. 
CLIENT: I guess hypochondria is more like . . . usually when I'm fixating about being unwell I do it in the evening. I don't do it at work as much. I'm not sure of the reason.
THERAPIST: So when you're having potentially bad health things happen, it tends to happen in the evening?
CLIENT: First I had a bout of obsessing over my cat's health. She is just old. She's 15. She has thyroid problems. I brought her in and the vet gave me a guilt trip about her health. She had previously had basically a runny nose and my vet had said, "Oh, don't worry about it. It's feline herpes. They just get it. Give her Lysine. She'll be quiet." I was like, "Okay." It had been going on and the vet I saw was like, "Oh, my God. This cat might have pneumonia. Why haven't you brought her in? I can't feel one of her kidneys." I was just like, "I'm the worst pet owner. I'm sorry." So I was obsessing over [senior feeling, kidney diets] (inaudible at 00:10:29) and various other things for several hours for a week and then I stopped. Mostly I made myself stop because I was like, "This is horrible. A little much." It's more like at home I'm thinking about why I am so tired and then I start thinking, "Maybe it could be X, Y, Z," and then it's "Dr. Internet" or thinking about all of the ways in which, "Well, I notice I have been tired these few days," or "I'm having a hard time remembering things and maybe . . . "0:11:15
THERAPIST: I'm smiling because it's like, "Hmm. I wonder if your worry is part of what is making you tired." (chuckles)
CLIENT: Yes. I was really worried about one of my gums have been bleeding and puffy, and so eventually I just came in to my dentist and was like "I'm being crazy, but I need you to look at my gums," and then it was fine. He was like, "Yeah, you should floss less in that spot, which he had been fairly excessively poking at." So I've been spending a lot of time worrying. I've been worrying about a lot of things in various ways. Also I've been feeling kind of detached, disconnected and really tired. [00:12:39] (pause) 
THERAPIST: I wonder if our meeting less often and kind of sporadically over the last while is contributing, in that I would think one thing coming in provides is a chance to put it out there and talk about it and look at it.
CLIENT: I think, in retrospect, changing our meeting time was not a good idea—us not meeting very much over the summer.
THERAPIST: Okay. You don't mean changing the meeting time; you mean meeting less?
CLIENT: Meeting less frequently. It's not the hour of the day. In retrospect that was not a good idea, but I'm not really sure what else we could have done. I also kind of raise that there's this Japanese artist whose work is all about polka dots, which I like, but which really doesn't have anything to do with me.
THERAPIST: [ ] (inaudible at 00:14:12) 
CLIENT: Her last name is [inaudible]. She has an exhibit up the road right now and it's all about the obliteration of self through dots and these strange super-Freudian sausagy extrusions that she covers furniture with. Descriptions of them have always avoided discussing that she just covered a room with phalluses.
THERAPIST: It's like penises all over.
CLIENT: Yeah—just everywhere. They're like "sausage-like". (therapist laughs) says one of the things that it's all about is her fear of sex. (both chuckle) I was reading about her polka-dot art and she has been voluntarily living in a mental hospital in Japan since the '70s, which I also then became really, really intrigued by. It's also for a variety of reasons, including that translation and cultural respect. It's kind of unclear why she's been living there for forty years. It's voluntary. She has a studio that's separate from the mental hospital. The idea of voluntarily committing yourself for a long period of time seems really weird and interesting and really weird accommodation. [00:16:13] So, yes, one of the things I've been obsessing over is other people's mental health and [ ] (inaudible at 00:16:18) 
THERAPIST: And, in part, as your feeling that absence of treatment, you're obsessing about her, who is dependent on it. In other words, it makes me wonder if you're feeling some kind of need for therapy that is uncomfortable.
CLIENT: Yeah, I'm always uncomfortable about the idea of long-term mental health treatment. (both chuckle) Yeah. Both my brother and I have had a lot of problems with the idea that you have to take drugs long-term, doing therapy long-term, or any idea that this is something you have to deal with for good. My brother had a lot of problems with the idea of taking Lithium long term. He really, really didn't want to and kind of went on and off of it a few times. Also, he didn't [ ] (inaudible at 00:18:12) with him in general. The bigger issue was that he did not want to have to take it for the rest of his life. He eventually decided that that was just like a) he had to and b) the option of not taking the medication was pretty horrible. [00:18:52] The thing that kind of made him decide that he really, really needed to stay on medicine was after he was having mixed [ ] (inaudible at 00:19:08) because Lithium just wasn't really working for him. The problem was he was taking Lithium and an antidepressant. It was some kind of mood-stabilizer and an antidepressant, so he was having a mix of depression and mania. That led to him getting really paranoid, having delusions, hallucinating. Leaving one state, ending up in another—that whole thing. After that  ] (crosstalk at 00:19:45) he was like—yeah. And so he said the experience of having all these auditory hallucinations and hearing voices, he was like he would do anything to not have that happen again. He is stabilized on whatever he is taking. Before he and his wife got married, part of what they talked about was that she wanted him to commit to ongoing management of his mental health, in whatever form that might be, and that it would include medication [ ] (inaudible at 00:20:28) . I have not wanted to talk antidepressants long-term ever since I started taking them when I was 18 or so. I think for a while the longest I was on was generally two or three years, I would take the antidepressants and then stop; and then take them again and stop, usually because it had side effects I didn't like or if I was feeling better and wanted to not take them. Also, not entirely helpfully I thought, "If I was bi-polar then I would take medication. If I'm not, maybe I don't need to."
THERAPIST: If you're not going to hallucinate you're not going to take something.
CLIENT: Exactly. I'm like, "Well I've never been suicidal, so why do I need to take them?" That's what I think of old friends who are vocally super anti-medication. I think actually right now is probably the longest stretch I've been taking medications. [00:22:16] Maybe the longest stretch of therapy, but I'm not quite sure. I always end up frustrated and feeling like I shouldn't have to. Things aren't that bad. Even though, in a way, I'm like, "Diabetics take insulin and that's neutral. Antidepressants are also like a neutral thing one takes." I also think things like, "Well, if you're diabetic, you can also control your blood sugar through your doctor, diet and exercise. Maybe I could also control depression through other things." [00:23:30]
THERAPIST: I wonder if today, as we're talking, you're consistently medicalizing feelings.
CLIENT: Yes.
THERAPIST: And whether the issue with taking medication long-term or being in therapy long-term is to do with—it's got to be about feeling dependent.
CLIENT: Being dependent on medication and therapy or in general?
THERAPIST: Yeah, it's a fear of the feeling that stirs up. I guess therapy would be [ ] (inaudible at 00:24:31) person and [ ] (inaudible at 00:24:37) that acts as sort of a displacement of a person in a way.
CLIENT: I am kind of aware that I tend to want to think of ways of being really anxious or depressed as like—find the right kind of cocktail and that would fix it. I think part of it is that it feels really overwhelming and also somehow improbable that feeling this bad or awful and feel that way and feel really stressed and upset, that I would like it to be something that I could at least medicate.
THERAPIST: In getting your family history, it seems quite likely that there is a genetic, logical component that quite reasonably addressed with medication. I'm certainly not assuming that, but like you're also saying you may—I'm pretty sure this point is something that factors in, as I image you are, too, and it's harder to think about it that way.
CLIENT: I think probably the part that I find really frustrating to deal with is I know there are ways in which sometimes I feel like this is really disabling or this is really affecting stuff I would like to do. I end up feeling guilty for being depressed or anxious or upset because I feel like I shouldn't be. I feel like, "Well, you know, I'm taking my serious medication. I'm seeing a therapist. With doing those things, I shouldn't still be feeling really bad," and yet I do. I feel like I should be doing all of these other things. Some things I want to do. Some things I think I just should do. It just feels really hard like when I run into friends and they're like, "Why don't we hang out?" and I'm like, "I've been really busy being depressed in my apartment." When I do go out and go to a thing, I do a good enough job of faking it or avoiding how I've been feeling. It's hard to convey to people that, "This is very difficult. This took a lot of energy. I'm going to spend the next day sleeping. It's not that you're not awesome, it's that this is the best I can do," and I don't want to be [that sick.] (ph)
THERAPIST: Absolutely, it's awful. For a bunch of reasons, I think, it sounds like it's way less fun and it gives the impression of being helpless and it just doesn't feel good socially and then you say you feel responsible. Yuck.
CLIENT: Yeah. (pause) [00:30:16] I think one of the reasons why I think about "do I have a chronic illness?" is there has got to be something to displace everything onto. "Well, I'm sorry, but you know I have this totally physical disease. There's a good reason for staying home on the sofa rather than a 'not good' reason." (pause) [00:31:30] I think there is also an element of imposter syndrome, like when I talk to people who say that I'm really good at writing essays—so I have a deadline of today which is probably why I've been thinking about it—but definitely lately I've been like, "Wow. I'm not really that good. Anyone can do this. It's not really that I'm so good," and then I feel bad that I haven't written anything lately because if I can, I really should. My friends make plans and [ ] (inaudible at 00:32:30) I'm like, "Well . . . " It's hard for me to say, "I've just been really busy being depressed, so I can't." Then I end up feeling really overwhelmed by self-doubt. Like, "Maybe I'm not actually good at it. Maybe I'm fooling myself. There are other people who are better at it," and just sort of this whole thing where whatever someone says, I'm going to disagree with. So I end up tending not to talk about it because of how much I can't stand it when people do that to me. When no matter what I say . . . [00:33:25]
THERAPIST: Yeah, I know how you [ ] (inaudible at 00:33:25) 
CLIENT: Yeah, and so I just hate that so much that I don't want to do it to other people, but then it ends up that I'm not talking. (pause) [00:34:16]
THERAPIST: I can see how it really cuts you off people because you don't really have anything going on with you that you want to talk about.
CLIENT: It's just really rare that talking about it with a friend actually makes me feel better. [ ] (inaudible at 00:34:48) the right thing to do. I feel like I'm totally imposing and being selfish.
THERAPIST: I'm not trying to argue you into talking about it, I'm just saying it's crummy that then you have this big thing that's going on in a big way in your life and you're isolated with it.
CLIENT: I also feel like anything I do—like talk about it or not talk about it—they both feel like failures. So whatever I do I feel like it's not enough or bad. I didn't do a good job of it. (long pause) [00:37:24]
THERAPIST: I guess depression is quite overwhelming. We've got to focus on finding ways we're going to be able to help you contain it to help you manage with it.
CLIENT: You know it does feel really overwhelming. I think, in part, because I'm just used to feeling really overwhelmingly depressed in the winter. It's the time of year. It just feels really weird and wrong to be feeling this depressed and having it be sunny and kind of nice out. I kind of hate the heat but, in theory, I'm like, "But I like summer." But I haven't done any of the summer things I usually do. I think in part because of my class and part because it's been so hot and gross. It just feels really unmanageable. In part I'm worried that I'm going to be feeling super depressed from now through spring and that's really [ ] (inaudible at 00:39:33) I keep thinking about leaving in part because of the weather so that so much of it doesn't take over half the year. Right now I'm thinking, "Oh, God, what if I'm still depressed half the year." I don't even know. I sort of feel at a loss. I'm like, "Well if that's going to be true, then I should drop the [ ] (inaudible at 00:40:16) program and do something else with my time or money or whatever," except that I do want to finish this [ ] (inaudible at 00:40:30) 
THERAPIST: How long before you finish?
CLIENT: About a year and a half or two. It depends on if I do another summer session.
THERAPIST: It's all making me thinking of something else, which I've thought of at times when we were talking but I don't think I mentioned it, which is that I could imagine that analysis could be helpful for you.
CLIENT: How so? [00:41:31]
THERAPIST: I guess the longer I do this kind of work, the more I think that kind of thing is helpful and because—I'm not talking about you specifically—I also think you can never tell how it goes with anything like that until you do it. But I have the impression that it could be helpful for you and that it might make it easier to deal with some of the things that you're describing—over time and it takes a while—in a way that could make a difference. I'm being quite vague now. [] (inaudible at 00:43:00) I think you could likely make good use of it and it could help you and the extent of your depression is really scaring you. You're not sure what to do about it and hopefully not, but your worry could cost you quite a lot in your life. I don't know what you know about analysis, but I think it's probably the increased frequency of sessions and increased intensity of our relationship that would facilitate getting into some of the things that cause you trouble in a way that could benefit (ph). [00:44:35] Like I say, you can't really know what's going to happen unless you try something like that, but the more I work the more I tend to see that kind of thing help.
CLIENT: How would you describe analysis as being different?
THERAPIST: From what we're doing now? Structurally there are two differences, really. More visits, usually it's four times a week rather than two. Usually, though not always, we'll use the couch, a la New Yorker cartoon. Aside from that, those tend to cause changes in the way things go, but in other ways it's really not that different. I mean, I don't [say less, say more, say different kinds of things, like different things may come up or are likely to come up—but different things, but collaborations] (inaudible at 00:45:53)—but otherwise, it's about the same. 
CLIENT: I was just reading Allison Bechtel's newest book, Are You My Mother? It's about her relationship with her mother. Allison Bechtel has written a lot about being in therapy for an awful, awful long time, but in this book, she talks more about it and it becomes clear that she's doing analysis, at least in part. I just finished reading it. I'm just kind of thinking about it's why she never—she's done a lot of autobiographical things and she's done a previous autobiographical—and yet she's never really mentioned that until this one. 
THERAPIST: We should finish up for now but, yeah, maybe we should talk about it a little more.
CLIENT: Yeah, I think I would want to talk about that. I'll see you on Monday.
END TRANSCRIPT
