TRANSCRIPT OF AUDIO FILE:
______________________________________________________________________________
BEGIN TRANSCRIPT:
COUNSELOR: This is client 0518/014. This is interview number three, January 8th, 1970.
PATIENT: Hello again. How was your weekend?
COUNSELOR: Fairly lousy: and you?
PATIENT: I read a lot but I don't know how happy it was.
COUNSELOR: Yeah.
PATIENT: A lot of things happened, meanwhile.
COUNSELOR: What happened?
PATIENT: Well, after I talked to you on Thursday...and what Thursday was that? That wasn't finals week, was it?
COUNSELOR: Yeah, the last time I saw you, I think, was even before your finals week.
PATIENT: Really?
COUNSELOR: Yeah.
PATIENT: Basically I didn't have a lot of sleep and I was doing work (inaudible 1:19). I was trying to write this paper for my grant and I really wanted to be doing, you know...I wanted to study and I had a lot of stuff to do. I stayed up all night for two nights and tit was a really silly thing to do because I wasn't really in good shape. I got so spaced that I had this take home exam and I spent - it was supposed to be a two hour take home exam - and I spent a whole day on it, which besides not being fair was just ridiculous. I realized at the end of the day at 9.30 that I hadn't left my room the whole day. I also went into my room-mate - who was also taking the course - and asked her something and realized that I had been doing the whole wrong thing. I had been rewriting his introduction to the test and I hadn't even began to answer either of the two questions. At which point...I don't know, I guess that wasn't essentially so upsetting but I guess on top of everything I just freaked. I ran out of the apartment - I don't think I even put a coat on - and I ran to my parents' house and I started crying. At that point, I was really at a bad point with both my parents too. My father was really angry with me because I wanted to go to D.C. at Christmas to spend some of it with a girlfriend of mine and I guess they felt really rejected that I didn't want to be with them for Christmas. They were giving me a hard time. I started hearing voices and it was real bad. They came home and I had a good talk with them and they gave me two meltdowns. And I went to D.C., even though they didn't want me going. My friend (inaudible 3:25) was expecting me one day. At this point, it is really important for me to be as much with the friendships that I have as I can be. And I realized then that I had been in my apartment all day - this quarter was real bad - and then to undermine something really essential. I really was spaced, basically. Every time I came in to talk to her, I couldn't even talk. My speaking was coming from somewhere other than my gut and that was generally how I was being with everything. 0:04:09.3
COUNSELOR: You were really kind of aware of how much it was doing to you after you ran away.
PATIENT: Yeah. The reason I was scared was I thought, okay, as soon as I am out of my apartment, I will be fine but I went to D.C. and I wasn't fine. I was really spaced on something basic. It wasn't even just the apartment; it had really gotten through to something in me. Basic: even different than the situation of being in the apartment.
COUNSELOR: It must have been frightening to see it that way?
PATIENT: Yes, I was totally freaked. Also because I didn't realize. I was in pretty bad shape most of my stay in D.C. and it turned out that I had to get into this weird thing to pull myself out of it. Like I stayed with Holly: she has this old boyfriend who she shares a very strange relationship with; which is that he has always adored her and she had been, like, the center of his world. She likes him but she has never felt similar and she has always pressured him to like other people because she has felt bad about tit being so unequal but at the same time she has always in this subtle way encouraged this relationship because it is really nice to be so important to somebody. I really liked him and he liked me. It ended up blowing up into somewhat of a scene. It was the only thing that could, like, bring me down to the ground and doing something weird. I mean, nothing happened. What ended up happening was Holly being jealous because he really liked me and wanted to spend time with me. And then when I realized after that that...you know, I still haven't thought that out very much. I still don't know what it meant to me. I don't think I would really do anything terribly bad because I knew that Holly's feelings were more important to me than his and that she always came first but still, I just have a funny feeling that she is just not happy with whatever happened. We are going to talk on Sunday: we have set aside the whole day because we haven't seen each other yet. She had a whole lot of feelings: I think she was really angry at me after I left. 0:06:59.3
COUNSELOR: In some way you really needed him and yet this...
PATIENT: Yeah.
COUNSELOR: No sure what was wrong but something seemed...
PATIENT: I really needed somebody to like me after being desexed so much but I haven't parceled out why it was him and why a guy and what it means to me. And what it had to do with Holly. But anyway, I came home and my brother was here and his wife; and my sister and father and my mom. And we all went to (inaudible 7:38), some resort, which is traditional. I found out when we were little, I was even conceived there! My brother is into Brief relational therapy - he is a brief relationla therapist as a matter of fact - and my sister-in-law, who I even feel closer to than my brother - I have known her eight years and I really adore her - she is kind of into that too. My whole family; when they get together, it is really intense. Everyone is into therapy on some sort of level. It ends up being super-heavy, male bondish type stuff. I really withdrew completely. Usually I am right in the middle of it: I mean, I am very much a part of what is going on in the family.
COUNSELOR: But this time?
PATIENT: This time it was really strange: I didn't want to get into anything heavy and I think pretty much the whole family was a little bit like that. My mother said at one point that we were substituting ease for intimacy. I think I especially withdrew because whenever they started to get all heavy, I would literally be in the cabin. I would literally get terribly cold and pull covers up to my eyes. At one point, my bother drew attention to the fact that nobody else in the room was cold and everybody was sitting up, and I was, like, huddled under the covers just peering at people completely quiet. 0:09:16.6
COUNSELOR: Somehow you couldn't take it?
PATIENT: Yeah, I didn't want to take it and also in some way distrusted it. I guess because what happens is, people...what happens in the family is, like, there are always very intense relations and somebody will blow up at somebody or get very angry or hurt by somebody and there will be all this tension and they will have, like, they will all get together at some point, more or less, purposefully. Maybe we will just all be together and stuff will happen. We will go into this big scene and people will be angry and somebody will hit somebody and there will be all this crying and stuff going on and then, after a couple of hours of breaking out, it always gets worked out and everybody feels great and they are hug each other and everything is okay.
COUNSELOR: Have you been through this scene too many times before?
PATIENT: Particularly with my brother: my brother was giving me a really hard time so when we go back to the family, my brother, my sister and I have been getting closer, especially when we are out in Texas and my parents aren't involved. So we can all be good enough then. but somehow we went back to having my mom and dad there and it all degenerated into...we all got younger and we all got more needful of our parents and more competitive, particularly my brother. We were really polarizing each other and he would pick fights with me or be incredibly difficult and I would be the same way back to him. 
COUNSELOR: It is almost like you couldn't stand to be hurt anymore.
PATIENT: Maybe that was it. In a funny way too, I thought that what I would want is closeness with him but when I was there I pulled away, like it was something in me. It ended up that we did, like my brother and I, did do a kind of thing and felt better about each other. I really felt that he was hurting me and he was being shitty to me. I told him that and he just got really distant and said something like: "I just feel distant and really cold about you." All of a sudden I got angry. Instead of crying, I sat up straight and just stared really viciously at him across the room. As soon as I could do that, he broke into a smile and I found myself smiling. It was like as soon as I could be angry, then we were equal again and he couldn't pick on me. That helped but I don't know, I just felt like this strange withdrawal: things were happening, I was doing them. It ended up pleasantly; like we all enjoyed the time. I felt better and I started to feel more included and more into it. Actually, included isn't the right word because there is no exclusion in the family. I was including myself in that as a choice. 0:12:49.0
COUNSELOR: But you said it ended up okay okay?
PATIENT: Yeah, yeah, and basically it ended up, in fact, that the vacation was a pretty okay one; the end part, at least, and the start part. The other thing that happened was that I really decided that I can't live in my apartment. It is finally untenable for me. It is, like, whiling away something inside that was hard to build up and I have to like...I just lack self-confidence maybe and just living there isn't any good and I finally decided I am going to have to free myself from whatever kind of unhealthy attraction was there. So I am not going to live there. I am living at home: that is not a whole lot better. More than often, we get along but I really don't want to live with my parents at all. I really want to live with friends, not my parents because no matter how good we are together, I still degenerate into a kid when I am around them. I hate doing dishes and I don't make my bed - just things like that. Which of course, in my own apartment, I do without even thinking. So I don't want to live there. Also, I feel excluded I guess, from things too.
COUNSELOR: It is like (inaudible 14:24) college friends?
PATIENT: Yeah, and it just makes lots of things more difficult. Being out late: don't worry about it if I don't come home; they will get upset. And I don't have to worry about those kinds of things. So I feel good about that: that I am not staying in an unhealthy situation. I stayed with it because I had to (inaudible 14:53) but now I don't have a place to be. That is a little bit scary and I haven't been thinking about it. I have been going at it really slowly because otherwise I will get all panicky and upset. My sister is still here and as long as she is here and I am using her as a crutch, then I want to be with her as much as I can - except for she is leaving tomorrow. 0:15:22.6
COUNSELOR: The thing is facing not having a place; the emptiness and wanting to get one too much; getting into wanting it at all so that it gets to be frantic.
PATIENT: Yeah, and I don't want to do that. I can see I have already; that is what would happen if I do it the wrong way. I have been calling up realtors and trying to find a place and kind of been hoping that this girl Cathy would want to move out of where she is living and live with me. I just talked to her today and she decided not to. I guess I figured that would happen. She is living with this guy she has been with for three years and she is getting a little bit restless. I know she likes me and would like to live with me. She has decided that maybe it isn't the right thing for her and her boyfriend - that it wouldn't help them get closer at this point. I don't know.
COUNSELOR: So you haven't any place to go?
PATIENT: I have two possibilities but they are both a little bit imposing on friends. Cathy's house has an extra little room. I thought if I can't find a place I would ask if I could live in this quarter. And my friend Holly: they have a really big apartment and they have a sun porch that they haven't been using for anything; it is bare. It doesn't have a door but I asked Holly today and asked her room-mate Carol yesterday and I guess I will ask each of the other two. And I hope they would think about it if I could live there this quarter. I guess that is kind of, probably, what I am counting on but I am being real good. I am, like, saying to them that I would understand if it didn't seem feasible to you. But somewhere in my head I am really counting on that. I had a really good talk to Holly just then. I told her..we are all, like, honest with each other so that...I mean, I told her I was a little bit counting on it but on the other hand I really didn't want... 0:18:24.6
COUNSELOR: To be...
PATIENT: Well, to pressure her because I know that if her fourth room-mate was moving out, I know they all want me to live there in that eventuality. We have all agreed on that but their fourth room-mate, who teaches here, Tom Freedman, he likes them - they are all friends - but he probably wants to live with people more of his age. Some of his friends - Kirby or somebody, I don't know. And if he moves out, I move in. It doesn't look like he is going to so I thought I would ask each one of them and then let them all mull over it. You know, space problems and if they feel there is enough energy in the apartment to handle it for a while. I guess I was just kind of depending on it, I don't know. There is also just this feeling of unreality pervading everything. It is keeping me from being panicked about it but it is also making me pretty removed from everything.
COUNSELOR: Yeah. Nothing is quite clear. It is a little...
PATIENT: I also have a feeling that it might be that the way I am dealing with it is okay, it is just that since I am so used to my general way of being totally panic-stricken and completely involved and agonized by everything that is going on that if I am not, it feels like I am out of touch. I don't know which one it is. I guess I am kind of glad I am not anguished but I am also a little bit wary of my calm. I am wondering is it because none of it is being real to me: I am not really dealing with it. I just keep having this feeling of: "Oh, I will let it run a couple of more days." 
COUNSELOR: It sounds that you want to deal with it well, very much? 0:20:47.9
PATIENT: Yeah, oh yeah - for sure! Sure. The other thing that could happen...towards the end of the week; I mean, towards the end of the week of the last quarter at my old apartment, Jen, who was the lone person that I had felt previously in touch with - we were friends - had gotten real down on me and literally didn't want to be around me either.
COUNSELOR: Was she the one that was your best friend?
PATIENT: No, that is Diane. Jen was just feeling real bad about me too and that made me feel like shit. We came back and I have seen her a couple of times. We have been having a really good time with each other so now I feel more like: "Okay, it is not really that I am so horrendous." And Diane is being...I just ran into her a couple of times in the hall, you know, in (inaudible 22:07) in the (inaudible 22:09) club or something and she has been so unbelievably cruel. It doesn't hurt in the same way. I won't let her touch me as much. I won't let her matter to me as much. And that is okay. That is self-preservation. But Jen and I are getting along. 
COUNSELOR: That says something about you; like, you are okay.
PATIENT: I mean, can understand...I can see Diane and mind her action and I can somehow have reasons for it being really bad. I am not putting the blame on her because whatever happens between two people has to do with both of them. Blame is a ridiculous word when it comes to things that happen between people. With Jen, it was really hard for me to understand what was going on in terms of me but we are feeling real good about each other again. We spent all last night just sitting around having a nice time and that just made me feel...
COUNSELOR: Warmed and relieved.
PATIENT: Yeah, I also feel so much better to have positive energy, instead of constantly getting bad vibes or giving bad vibes to people; which is like a pain in the ass. I really like her more: I can see her again as a person. 
COUNSELOR: You get something from her instead of...one more person, one more thing that brings (inaudible 24:01). 0:24:02.0
PATIENT: Right, right. And that feels real good. I also decided to only take two classes: like, my history class and making a stained glass window and independent study. I am working for (inaudible 25:02) and I think I will finish up my incompletes just because I don't want to go any further. I just want to start clearing stuff up. I have all these incompletes from the first year and one for last quarter and a bunch of things for (inaudible 25:17) to do. It just feels like if I get a grip on all that stuff instead of letting it overwhelm me, it will be like another good thing for my head to (inaudible 25:27). My tendency is with all these(inaudible 25:34) real attractive but I think somehow doing this will make me...
COUNSELOR: Get things back in order for yourself.
PATIENT: Yeah - order! 
COUNSELOR: That is the word, huh?
PATIENT: I can't believe it : I have never been orderly in my life. It would help. I guess...the only thing I was thinking of, which was in relation to you, was that...it might be because of what happened between Dave and I - that is my brother. I was angry at him before but I feel like (inaudible 26:45) when he challenged me. I have a feeling maybe it is because maybe we haven't gotten to stuff yet - some stuff yet. But I have a feeling that you haven't challenged me. Maybe I haven't let you or maybe you don't have the involvement or something to challenge me. Maybe this is like all on the face of it. 0:27:10.1
COUNSELOR: You disappointed with me?
PATIENT: I am not sure if that is it. I have a feeling that I can fool myself enough and I can maybe deceive myself enough so that I want to just....Maybe this is unfair; maybe I can't tell you how you should be towards me. I kind of want you to question because (inaudible 28:06) let me think about it and I won't be so glib in telling you. And somehow I would feel like you really challenged me. Sometimes I was angry at him for challenging me because how I was telling it was really how I was feeling it. But sometimes when he challenged me, I would realize that that wasn't the whole story but that might be because he knows me. He can hear what isn't consistent with the rest of who I am. He could say: "Well, you colluded in me in that apartment. You let them do that to you." And in some way I want you to do that and in some way I guess I don't. It is nice to have somebody who is on your side because your slightest illness (inaudible 29:01) here. I guess maybe that I want to be sure somehow that if you question me, it will make me think and then I will (inaudible 29:11) to be sure.
COUNSELOR: I think I am getting more of the ideas of what you are asking me now. It is like you want to be really, really (inaudible 29:23) to not just be going through the motions. Partly, it is like a kind of help too.
PATIENT: Maybe it has something...when you make more clear the things that I have said. Sometimes it helps me because it gives me, first of all, it is outside of me - I can hear somebody else saying it. Sometimes it just clicks. Sometimes it is a little bit clearer because it adds something; because it is from you. I have this feeling that there isn't enough movement because of something. I guess also, maybe I am just trying to draw you in; maybe I just... Because when you are in it, when you are listening to me, I can tell that you are there. 0:31:07.0
COUNSELOR: There is not quite enough contact?
PATIENT: Yeah, and maybe you cannot create that. Maybe it will or will not happen but I have a feeling that I must be striking you in a certain way. You are not telling me how you are hearing anything of what I am saying. You are sometimes. Does any of this make any sense to you?
COUNSELOR: Sure. Yeah, the first thing you said about challenging you. I don't think I want to do that. That is not how I do therapy. The other part about contact: I think I am sort of distant sometimes. And that I don't want to be.
PATIENT: I feel better just even (inaudible 32:58) a little bit.
COUNSELOR: Yeah, yeah. I felt a lot distant right then too. 0:33:10.7
PATIENT: I guess when I was saying challenging: I guess you challenge somebody because you have an investment and you see something differently. I guess it was the investment that I was talking about more than a (inaudible 33:54)
COUNSELOR: Yeah.
PATIENT: And also, I guess if you feel spaced, or if you don't feel like you are there, then you just have a feeling - I don't know if I am projecting this on you - but I have a feeling that you have been feeling that way.
COUNSELOR: Spaced?
PATIENT: Spaced: there in some sense but not there in a bigger sense.
COUNSELOR: I think that is really true, yeah.
PATIENT: I started feeling that I was talking to some kind of (inaudible 34:27)
COUNSELOR: Yeah.
PATIENT: The things I say sound to me hollow and I was wondering why that was for a long time; that I felt very strange every time I would come in and talk to you. It occurred to me that a lot of it had to do with because of the situation: some of it had to do with me but some of it had to do with you too.
COUNSELOR: That could very well be because I notice myself earlier today being out of it; trying to work at it but...
PATIENT: I guess almost like if you tell me you are not there, it makes it much easier for me because then...
COUNSELOR: Then you know it is me and not you.
PATIENT: Well, yeah. Some of it is me in that my being here doesn't pull you into being there but it also makes me know what to do with this how I am feeling, staring out the window and hear my words drift around backwards - your not pulled into that either. I guess it also makes you more of a person to me.
COUNSELOR: It probably makes me feel less distant to say (inaudible 35:40) distant too.
PATIENT: One palm is sweating and one isn't (chuckles).
COUNSELOR: When you are talking about wanting to manage me carefully; to be sure to make it go right and not to make a rupture between us. 0:36:04.0
PATIENT: Yeah, I do that. At this point, particularly, I am real careful with people.
COUNSELOR: Like you cannot afford losses?
PATIENT: Yeah, I found myself real careful talking to Holly today about asking her about the apartment, making sure that I told her that it was okay if they decided not to. Making me try to make it seem like I wouldn't feel rejected if they didn't take me, which I won't feel really in some ways because I know that they all care. But in some way, I will be. But I was being careful. A lot of it also has to do with this super-strong thing inside me. It is the same way that I could never join an organization because something in me is just, like, this super-strong ego and I always hear the opposite side of an argument and hear the other person's part before they say it, so I say it because I don't like sticking with how I am feeling. I do that a lot.
COUNSELOR: But you were tying that up to something and I missed the connection: were you tying that up to being careful with me?
PATIENT: I guess I am being careful because the idea of not getting anywhere with you and feeling that the therapy hasn't been helpful to either of us is really scary. It feels like I couldn't get enough in touch with myself or be important enough to you to get it together. If I can prevent that - if it wouldn't turn out that way.
COUNSELOR: You all so much would like it to really work and it would be a bad scene if it didn't.
PATIENT: Not a bad scene because...I don't know why, I don't feel like a bad scene but: "Well, why is it that nothing is working?"
COUNSELOR: Yeah. 
PATIENT: Was is it about me? First of all, it doesn't let me get enough in touch so that I can be, maybe - is it interesting? - to you or make you involved with me. 0:39:16.0
COUNSELOR: Yeah. You cannot get me involved and also how come you cannot get in touch with yourself either.
PATIENT: I think the getting touch with me comes first, in this way that if I got in touch with me, then probably because I am touch with me, you would to. Because if you are a therapist, it means that you would probably think of yourself, then probably are a person who gets in touch with people. Both elements in that. But I have also been scared in another way: like yesterday, my sister is back and she is about to go to Brazil but her back has been bad, which is totally psychological. Her back has never been bad: there is nothing wrong with it. This is really a period where she knows better than to leave and it is good for her to stay and her back is co-operating! So I took her to the doctor and it is true that I couldn't have gotten out of it: there is nobody else that could have taken her and I had to stay, but I also had this sense of really, a little bit...
COUNSELOR: That you didn't have to come?
PATIENT: That I didn't have to come. A lot of that was because I was pretty upset yesterday and sometimes when I get upset, instead of wanting to deal with it, I just shove it away. I am afraid that if I deal with it, I will get overwhelmed or too upset, so I don't deal with it at all.
COUNSELOR: Yeah.
PATIENT: But some of it might have been that I didn't want it to be icky too so I didn't want to come because I thought I would be putting it away because I was upset and I would walk in spaced again and you would be spaced. Then we would get nowhere again. But I was even early today! 0:41:51.6
COUNSELOR: Yeah.
PATIENT: It is funny, I still feel really (inaudible 42:37)
COUNSELOR: Do you?
PATIENT: I am not sure what I want to go to. 
COUNSELOR: Yeah. I was just noticing that I wasn't quite making that sign. 
PATIENT: What do you mean?
COUNSELOR: I wasn't quite (inaudible 42:59) of you. I slipped out shortly after you said that first thing.
PATIENT: Have you any ideas about your think that is? Do you have any flashes on it?
COUNSELOR: One thing is: I have been involved in setting up a workshop. It is making me very nervous; it is drawing all my energy. The other thing is I think it makes me nervous that you are very sort of perceptive of the relationship and how it is going on. You are sort of thinking about it and watching it. It makes me self-conscious. Of course, people are always doing that but I guess when you say it, it makes me aware that you are doing it and I find I am self-conscious.
PATIENT: Really?
COUNSELOR: Yeah.
PATIENT: Yeah, I guess so. It made me in a funny way less self-conscious to say it though. I guess also I am probably less critical of you than you think, apparently, because I feel super-responsible in not being compelling enough to make you hear, which is my reaction to it. "I cannot draw her in - I cannot make her care." And I guess that it is a two way street but that is how I come to it, from internally worrying about it. But I do feel when both of us aren't here. 0:46:10.1
COUNSELOR: You feel, especially the thing you said about you not being compelling.
PATIENT: I guess that is something, like, when I first...a lot of the times, I said something about like I hoped that I was upset when I came in and that was almost so that...I mean, I have this weird thing about creativity and being crazy; madness and specialness being really closely tied and somehow I feel like that if you could see the crazy part of me somehow. Although it is crazy, there are also positive things; that I almost want to come in to you when I felt that way because then you couldn't help but have a reaction to that in some way. I thought it might be disturbing but at least in some way...
COUNSELOR: You would be alive and vivid and joined and involving.
PATIENT: Yeah. I think some of it is also I don't know how to handle this kind of a relationship. I don't know how to handle coming to somebody who doesn't have previous investment in me, even if it is negative. I don't quite know what to do without you telling me how you feel about me or without you telling me that you feel spaced and maybe don't want to talk about that, without you telling me anything about who you are living with or, you know, who you care for and who you don't. And what is important to you.
COUNSELOR: It is almost like stepping out blind or something. 0:48:21.1
PATIENT: It is almost like I can't move all that much unless...because I have a feeling like I can keep on saying the same things to myself. When I talk to you they become a little bit clear but I don't move very far because I am so into my head lots of times that I really lose...I mean, like I have said it - I have talked to people about things - and then I get into the words of them instead of the feeling of it and I repeat the words to you and you cannot know what to say...But the truth of it is, is that it is a therapeutic relationship and I guess it is just essentially hard for me to deal with that. I don't know if I can ask you who you love, you know, or anything about how you feel. Lots of times it happens that a therapist doesn't like his or her patient, or their client - that is what it is called - and if you don't feel involved it is hard to know. I don't know.
COUNSELOR: And even like, the thing I said before, I said I feel self-conscious and you must be wondering does that mean she doesn't want me to comment on a relationship or would it make her nervous so I have to be careful of that?
PATIENT: I haven't got into that yet. I guess because I don't feel that. If I was harboring a criticalness of you as a therapist...
COUNSELOR: Then there would be uncertainty.
PATIENT: Then I would most likely do that. But that is not there. 0:51:00.3
COUNSELOR: I was trying to say something about what you said about dealing with a therapeutic relationship. I don't have a formula to do this. There is something unfamiliar about it; not knowing the rules and what you can do and what you cannot do. It is not something you feel sort of conscious of. Already, you are at least familiar with - if not confident in...Like if I met you in the C shop, you know, you would know how to talk to me. That would be just fine, or maybe it wouldn't be just fine but it would be bad in very familiar ways. 
PATIENT: I have a funny feeling that if I met you in the C shop I would talk to you much easier and that I could be much easier with what I was feeling. 
COUNSELOR: Can you put your finger on what makes it hard here?
PATIENT: Some of it is the un-everyday-ness of it. Some of it is just walking into your office. Do you understand what I mean by that? What I mean by "your office" is because it makes you so separate from me in a funny way. That is not avoidable because you are a therapist and I am a client. That is basically...I guess that is a thing that is hard for me to relate to. In some way, I guess it is because it is set up a certain way, it is kind of artificial. It doesn't give you room to not like me. I would much rather you say: "I don't like seeing you today." Or: "I am not getting into what you are talking about." Somehow I feel you don't have the space to do that and I feel like I am in some way putting myself on you. If I am putting myself on you I want to at least do it well so I can draw you in, you know. The C shop, somehow, is just more familiar to me. It is more my ground where I am sure of who I am more than coming into...I wonder what it is? I guess I want to be able to give you something; that is part of it. I don't want to be just taking from you because I don't think I can even. I don't think that I would be able to get up (inaudible 56:03) unless I feel that you are into it; by nature of pretty much who I am. And somehow, here you have been assigned to me. You know, okay, (inaudible 56:19), you are going to be seeing this student-Stacy angle. I am a responsibility that you might not have a choice about. 0:56:29.2
COUNSELOR: And you don't want to be just my responsibility either?
PATIENT: Yeah, very much. And I guess cannot help but think whatever relationship that is good between two people - that is moving and growing between two people - gives something to both of them. I don't feel myself giving anything to you or you taking anything from me. At all, not even a lot of good...I mean, energy: we don't even leave each other feeling really nice. It is not icky but it is just a little bit spaced. And not terrible, not like: "Oh Jesus." But just kind of, like that. Maybe it is harder when you are young - I just thought of that - maybe if I was, say, someone who was older - which isn't something that I want to do - maybe then I would have more of a feeling of: "They are a therapist and I am really different than them." But since..
COUNSELOR: Since I am young...
PATIENT: Since you are young and...
COUNSELOR: I couldn't sit in a C shop.
PATIENT: Yeah, and I guess...
COUNSELOR: I was thinking just as you said that: I haven't felt bothered in the same sense that you have. Like, if we had just went on and talked about your thing I would have said - about your vacation - I would have said: "Well, that was sort of an ass session but, you know, what the hell, I haven't seen her for a couple of weeks. We will probably get back into it." I wouldn't have expected it to go really well immediately.
PATIENT: Well, I don't know what I mean by "well." This thing that happens to me - it is like a basic thing - is like a spaceness; that happens to me. It doesn't feel good to me; it feels basically icky. It really feels out of touch. It doesn't have to be good but somehow it has to be unspaced. You know, like, we don't have to feel real good about each other when I leave. We don't have to...but somehow I have to... 1:00:07.6
COUNSELOR: You want to make some contact with me in the end?
PATIENT: Somehow to make contact with you it seems I have to make contact with me first. Because otherwise, who are you going to make contact to if I am not me? 
COUNSELOR: That is so hippy in a way: you have to get in touch with yourself in order to draw me in. Like you really...it is a big responsibility. I guess I am saying: "Jesus Christ (inaudible 60: 51) I assume then that it is my responsibility to - I assume it is a two way street and sure, if you are not doing all the stuff I would be in (inaudible 60:59). Because if I were you I would expect that from myself too. But I wasn't expecting it of you.
PATIENT: That just struck me funny but I had this flash like you were talking about something else. And that was funny; that I do expect to be in touch before I can have any relation to anybody; that they cannot touch me when I am not in touch with myself. Somehow I would think of any encounter with anyone; not just you but Holly when I am spaced - as being weird; as being not good - that I am not even in touch with myself. Because somehow it happens that when I am with somebody that...now I am getting confused...I cannot really feel anything unless I am in touch with myself. To move anywhere, it seems like I have to feel...or to even talk to anybody, I have to be...it is really hard to get words for all these feelings. I almost feel like I am having trouble trying to tell you about how icky and out of touch this is. 1:03:39.7
COUNSELOR: Yeah.
PATIENT: How incredibly icky it is and how I cannot deal with it. And how also I cannot let myself just be out of touch and somehow that is even bad because I keep on trying to get there - and I am not just there.
COUNSELOR: You don't feel like you are a good person when you are out of touch either.
PATIENT: Yeah.
COUNSELOR: You cannot be a good person anyway.
PATIENT: I also feel like me: I make this funny dichotomy that if I am out of touch I am not me which makes me split into these two different people.
COUNSELOR: It seems like almost as you talk you are shifting around, trying to get where you can - be in touch.
PATIENT: Say that again?
COUNSELOR: Just in talking.
PATIENT: Right now you mean?
COUNSELOR: Yeah, now and lately. Like you are trying to shift around until you can come out as you.
PATIENT: I feel more me now than I have been with you but...
COUNSELOR: But not completely?
PATIENT: Well, pretty good. I feel more...less looking out the window. Not totally, totally, totally completely but as good as I have been recently. 1:06:01.3
COUNSELOR: You look like you are going to say something.
PATIENT: Yes I know. I am a little bit worried because I feel like I let the cat out of the bag or something in a funny way. Like I have told you somewhat what I want from you and now whether it happens or not, I feel like now that I have said a lot, you matter more to me also. 
COUNSELOR: Oh.
PATIENT: And also that, it matters more to me in a funny way.
COUNSELOR: I don't think I really understand: like when you first said it I thought you meant you cannot sort of go on without waiting for it to happen, and patiently without noticing but you mean something else about caring more about it?
PATIENT: I mean what you just said and I also mean that somehow when (TAPE ENDS) 1:08:14.5
END TRANSCRIPT
