TRANSCRIPT OF AUDIO FILE:
______________________________________________________________________________
BEGIN TRANSCRIPT:
PATIENT: How you would have your workspace. Like what it would look like.
COUNSELOR: Well I - I
PATIENT: Who you are that a little bit and..
COUNSELOR: Well I share the space with another intern. And we just moved into the office a week ago. So. And I'm going to decorate it but.
PATIENT: Right. But I mean somebody you know. So the pictures - did you guys bring the pictures in down here or?
COUNSELOR: No. The pictures were - the pictures were here. The calendar - this calendar was here so.
PATIENT: So it like basically - like you take your notebook and your pens and that's it.
COUNSELOR: You brought a lamp in.
PATIENT: Yeah.
COUNSELOR: Other than that it's pretty much.
PATIENT: Okay. So how are you?
COUNSELOR: I'm okay. How are you doing?
PATIENT: I'm just tired.
COUNSELOR: Just tired?
PATIENT: I'm always tired. I just do too much. I'm spread - I'm always spread very thin. It comes from the desperation of trying to figure stuff out. What's (inaudible).
COUNSELOR: Before it's too late?
PATIENT: Yeah.
COUNSELOR: Have you been feeling that way a lot recently? Do you want to step away because you're like trying to?
PATIENT: Yeah. I think it's an underlying thing really. I try to work on it through jogging and stuff. But I don't know. Just very well discouraged lately.
COUNSELOR: Well we certainly talk a lot about figuring things out and let's within a central theme. And the - what's bringing you to the discouragement?
PATIENT: I just you know I just feel like time goes by and then really in a growing change I'm learning but I'm sort of still stuck in the same place.
COUNSELOR: Which - what?
PATIENT: Well I'm still not sure where I want to live. Still not anywhere with my career.
COUNSELOR: Okay.
PATIENT: And I'm still like being single. So I just feel like I'm always spinning. I'm just not.
COUNSELOR: Not settling.
PATIENT: (Inaudible) I had a date on Saturday with this guy. He was very nice. And he's a Cuban. And he's a high school teacher and pretty passionate person. And he scared me.
COUNSELOR: How so? [2:08]
PATIENT: I just wasn't interested. I felt like he was too overwhelming. Just something I had a lot of anxiety on when I was around him.
COUNSELOR: Now it's interesting because you started off saying all of these nice things. You said (inaudible).
PATIENT: Well he's a nice person. I just for some reason just very anxious around him. So I don't know if it's because he's so available and that scared me or I just really don't like him. He was being pushier than I wanted to him. I'm not really sure.
COUNSELOR: Sounds like you've got some ideas. Sounds like you've thought about it a little bit.
PATIENT: Well you know I'm always thinking about it because I have a zillion guys around me and none of them that I like. So.
COUNSELOR: What was your sense of this guy? Do you think that it was more that he was available or that he was being pushy?
PATIENT: I don't know. I don't know. He was being pushy but he was trying to be sensitive to my mood because I told him what was going on with me. And he goes okay just let me know.
COUNSELOR: So you told him you were anxious with him?
PATIENT: Uh-huh.
COUNSELOR: And how - in what way was he being pushy?
PATIENT: Well he was holding my hand and he was kissing my hand. And he was trying to kiss me. And he was telling me how beautiful I am. And I'm like the most beautiful girl he's ever kissed. And I'm like yeah, right, sure, whatever. And he just seemed very immanent (ph) with me.
COUNSELOR: Sounds like you didn't buy it.
PATIENT: Not that he was being dishonest. I just think ... I think stuff like that should take time. I wasn't feeling the same way about him. Like I wasn't ready to jump in and it wasn't like something about his chemistry probably because actually he did kiss me. And I had like a sore in my mouth. So I think that - that's not a good sign. You know?
COUNSELOR: You think that might be related to the fact that he kissed you?
PATIENT: Well I think he's either like doesn't have great hygiene in his mouth or like it's just the universe's way of saying it's - like my instinct was right. It's okay to trust that panic that I'm feeling. That means you know maybe he's just this - not right for me.
COUNSELOR: It sounds like you might not always be okay to trust beyond the panic related to guys.
PATIENT: Well yeah I mean ever since the whole you know the whole unraveling of the (inaudible) and other stuff I've been going through. You know? And I trust my gut in most situations but (inaudible) come to me. I'm finding that most of the people - I must be doing something wrong because people that I'm some how interested in doesn't really happen. And the people that are interested in me I'm not really interested in. I mean I don't know what the dynamic is. But I think with the reason I've been so discouraged lately is because all of my friends are getting married. [4:54]
COUNSELOR: You mentioned that last time. We talked that a lot of people were getting married and I think that for some reason you've been having a trial (inaudible).
PATIENT: Kelly. Camille. But it's mostly that Jodie - the whole Jodie situation that's upsetting me the most.
COUNSELOR: Is she the one that who lived with you and left you that note? Is that Jodie I think?
PATIENT: I remember that.
COUNSELOR: Yeah, I remember the note. Yeah.
PATIENT: Wow. That note devastated me. I was so vulnerable then. She's great. She's so honest you know. And she's a really beautiful girl. She's wonderful. And I know she's met her soul mate you know. And I figure I think why her, not me? (laughs) You know? (Inaudible) Probably because I still don't know what I want you know. Does anybody ever really figure it out? I mean very seldom do people know what they want.
COUNSELOR: It sounds like you feel like Jodie figured it out. Or aren't you sure?
PATIENT: Yeah, she is because she's - well she's from England but she's - both of her parents are Spanish. So she's very sophisticated girl.
COUNSELOR: Okay.
PATIENT: And her fianc�e is French so they have plans to live in Chicago for a little while and then they're going to have their first child, go to Texas and then they'll live back in Europe. So she has like already a wide range of life experience. I have (inaudible) doubt of that even happening. And yeah, she's fine.
She's been a tourist agent this whole time and it's a good paying job. He eventually wants her to quit. She started - she's starting this own like a salon business like going to you know like prestigious companies and like with the traveling hair - make-up place to bring in clients.
You know so she's much more mellow than I am. You know she's like not as driven and not made crazy by lots of choices. You know she's very much excepting of - of things. She's very at peace.
COUNSELOR: Sounds like she has a lot of the things you want. [6:58]
PATIENT: I don't know if I want those things. I just want my life to be enjoyable and manageable. It just never seems to be.
COUNSELOR: I'm thinking now so you've talked a lot about wanting to have a variety of living places in your future. Not I think that something that's come up a lot is the worry - I don't know if worry may be too strong but the sort of feeling of a little bit of apprehension about being nailed down to one job or one place. You think that kind of feels a little claustrophobic to you when you think about it.
PATIENT: Yeah.
COUNSELOR: The idea of wanting something committed and at the same time wanting to have your choices open. Does that sound right?
PATIENT: But you know what I want and what I get are two different things. I'm not really able to - it doesn't seem that I'm able to create it for myself. I'm dealing with it and stuff. I think maybe in partnership with somebody. I don't know. I'm just too tired - too tired to (inaudible) about all of that.
COUNSELOR: Tired of thinking about it, kind of struggling with it or just tired, tired.
PATIENT: I don't know.
COUNSELOR: What do you think would let you?
PATIENT: I'm getting pissed off because I just feel like we're just - I don't know. It's like I just want to get better. I don't want to like rethink things that I'm - that we know very clearly what my problems are. Why - why do they keep manifesting? Why? That's the big problem.
COUNSELOR: That's the big question. So you feel like right now we're just sort of rehashing?
PATIENT: Well yeah, I mean you know I just want to start figuring out what the hell's wrong with me that I feel like my life is unhappy.
COUNSELOR: It feels like we're not making progress right now?
PATIENT: Exactly.
COUNSELOR: Well we had talked about things in a little bit different way last time we met. Do you remember what we talked about?
PATIENT: Well we had that week break so.
COUNSELOR: Yeah. It's kind of hard to keep in mind. [9:10]
PATIENT: We were talking about my dad.
COUNSELOR: We started talking a little bit about your dad in the beginning of the session. And we also started - we were talking though about - you had mentioned about giving yourself permission to be physical or (inaudible).
PATIENT: Oh. That was a good. That was a good session. Let me tell you what happened about that. That gave me a lot of food for thought. And I thought to myself Pat is right. I'm like giving all these men the power to create what I want. So I went home and called Mike. And he came over. (laughs) Like as soon as I called, he came right over.
COUNSELOR: So what happened?
PATIENT: Well you know we hung out but - and he fulfilled my physical needs but not emotionally. So then if he can't fulfill my emotional needs, my physical needs dissipate. So I'm like ooo you know? So by the time he came over I was already disconnected emotionally because he had already hurt my feelings and disappointed me. So I couldn't really trust him.
COUNSELOR: Or even before?
PATIENT: Yeah, because he had said like oh I'll call
COUNSELOR: Before he called you.
PATIENT: And then he just like doesn't call and a bunch of stupid things. So we spent some time together. And he was leaving and he's like all right well I'll definitely call tomorrow. And I was like really, when are you going to call. And he was like well I don't have to call if you don't want me to. And I was like no call. So he didn't call the next day but he did call the day after. I'm so sorry. I was running around like crazy. How are you? Give me a call when you get a chance.
But he already fucked up. You know he just is inconsistent. So I called him right before I went away for the Labor Day weekend. And he did not call me back until - what's today? Today is Tuesday? He called Friday night. So he waited almost a whole week.
But then he was really funny. He was like basically saying asking me you know in a sort of underhanded way if he could move in with me until he like makes a bid in the fashion business. And I don't think he means to insult me. He's just a bit of a (inaudible) you know? And he's like well can I live with you Rebecca until I make my first 30 grand? And then I'll leave. I'm like oh yeah, sure you know. What your feet on me, do the doormat and then go. It's no problem. You know? [11:36]
And then he was like you know you're a really nice girl, Rebecca. He says you're like definitely girlfriend material. And I'm like whatever. I don't even know if I want a boyfriend. He's like well you're really nice. So I'm thinking this guy doesn't know me from a hole in the wall. Would you characterize me as nice?
COUNSELOR: I guess it depends whether you want him to or not.
PATIENT: I'm like I'm really good to the core but I am not a nice person. I will be the first person to tell you to fuck off or move out of the way or pick something up or whatever. And I don't really think that that's so nice. I don't think I'm nice. I think I'm direct. I think I'm honest. I really don't think I'm nice.
COUNSELOR: What is it?
PATIENT: I'm not sweet and.
COUNSELOR: What does nice mean to you?
PATIENT: It just means - it means like sugary sweet - like nice - like putting ours before you all of the time and to not you know not stand your own ground about things. I don't think he meant it that way either. But that's why I didn't react. I just don't react to him. And I think what he said to me is like well - I'm just going to tell him well Mike I didn't really get the impression that you were interested in me that way. And he goes oh you're wrong.
I think he's fishing with me you know. He's like I just know that you're dealing with a lot of stuff and so am I. And you know I don't want to keep all of my baggage on you. And so I just kind of ignored him. So he kind of intimated about getting together again. I'm having a (inaudible) on Thursday and I invited him. But he wanted to get together tonight and not having and he didn't call or anything. And I made plans with my other friend. But you know so part of me is like if this guy has a lot of issues and he's got a lot of trust issues and I think he's starting to trust me because I don't react.
COUNSELOR: Say that.
PATIENT: I don't react. I don't like - I don't treat him like he's a bad boy when he acts like a bad boy and yell at him like I'm his mother like a lot of women do. And the problem with that though is sort of the self-fulfilling prophecy. And he's like well let me treat this girl kind of shitty. And she'll yell at me like whoever used to yell at him. And then I can push her away. Or wow, she's not yelling at me. She must be pretty cool. And he'll like me. But the thing is I don't like him.
COUNSELOR: Because he just treats - you shouldn't.
PATIENT: Yeah. Because if I cared about him then I would be upset and I would be yelling at him. If I don't give a fuck then I'm not going to - he's not going to get to a place where he can hurt me or get me upset. So he loses either way.
COUNSELOR: Sounds like we've got him figured out pretty good.
PATIENT: I have him figured out great. (laughs) Now what's wrong with me? I really do not know. I'm serious. I'm really starting to get really like worried and upset.
COUNSELOR: Okay. There are a couple things that I got just in what you just told me that I.
PATIENT: And I'm really tired too because I'm dealing with this mouse problem at home and.
COUNSELOR: You have mice?
PATIENT: Yeah.
COUNSELOR: Okay. [14:32]
PATIENT: It's been like a pain in the ass. And jogging every morning and I'm working at my friend's law office. And he's very high-strung and very demanding. So I'm a little. And I think I'm getting my period like tomorrow - like very soon. So I'm just feeling very like emotional yeah.
COUNSELOR: A little fragile?
PATIENT: Yes.
COUNSELOR: Okay. Well let me start there then.
PATIENT: Okay.
COUNSELOR: Because it seems like one of the things is you came and you were kind of hopefully. And I kind of disappointed you. I was going back over the same stuff or just reflecting what you were saying.
PATIENT: Right and I wasn't very nice. And I spit and I called you - I called both of us on it. I was like this bullshit. Let's not go down that road a hundredth time.
COUNSELOR: Okay. So I wondering what you were feeling when - I guess now we're sort of going back to it which is kind of a like maybe I should have asked you this right there and then.
PATIENT: I was just frustrated.
COUNSELOR: It was frustrating because I wasn't - I wasn't doing what? What was it that - in what way was I frustrating you?
PATIENT: Do we have to go through this?
COUNSELOR: Well I don't - I mean today. Just now how is it - was it different? Was it the same stuff that was going on before or?
PATIENT: Yeah. I just felt like it was - it was like - I don't know. It just was - it just felt like it was like you know like therapy 101 or something. Like let's - like we're way past this shit. Like that's get to the heart. You know what I mean?
COUNSELOR: Okay. And it - to some extent what you want when you want to get to the heart is you want me to be more active.
PATIENT: (coughs) I just think that we have shared enough things in here for us to get to some - a deeper level. I think we're still brushing over surface stuff.
COUNSELOR: Okay. I guess - I guess what I'm wondering is what - it seems like part of that you know was something that I was saying - was letting us stay at the surface level.
PATIENT: But I feel like - I don't feel like I don't need to tell you that stuff. I mean you're the professional person. And I trust that you know how to guide me into my psyche to figure more of this stuff out.
COUNSELOR: Okay. I'm wondering also I guess the reason I'm bringing this up is because we had talked about some of the stuff a couple weeks - two weeks ago when you were here. And I'm wondering if it was - if there was something that you really wanted me to take it to that level. If you felt like it was difficult for you to bring some of this stuff up yourself. [16:54]
PATIENT: No. I don't even know what I want to bring up.
COUNSELOR: Okay.
PATIENT: Like it's just so - so obscure. I don't think it's blatant. I think it's - I don't know. You know I'm just - you know I'm just a confused person.
COUNSELOR: Okay.
PATIENT: I just can't get clear.
COUNSELOR: Okay.
PATIENT: You know I get peace for a long time. I get moments of clarity and (inaudible) but I think all in all I'm still sort of a little stuck.
COUNSELOR: Yeah. And - and I think if I understand you one of the things you're saying is.
PATIENT: I don't think I can unstick myself by myself. If I were I wouldn't be here.
COUNSELOR: Attended (ph) what I was.
PATIENT: Yeah. I mean it's.
COUNSELOR: What I say. It's like I can't - you're saying I can't get to the next level on my own. Don't let me stay there.
PATIENT: Yeah. I mean I jog. I do all of these things to try and pray and put me on the right path. And maybe I am and I don't even know it. You know? But I don't know. I mean there must be - like I'm just dissatisfied in - on the whole about my life experience. And my day to day is not satisfying.
COUNSELOR: Okay. I - I think a lot of the.
PATIENT: Maybe though am I putting the burden on you to solve my life maybe? (laughs)
COUNSELOR: I'm not sure I would put it that way. But I think it sounds like what you're saying is you'd like me to be more active. I'm trying to see if I can get you to say what you'd really like from me directly because.
PATIENT: I don't know if that's - I'd like you to be more active. I don't know if that's going to get me - for a little light bulb to go off. Yeah. But I don't know if there's other ways to go about it.
COUNSELOR: Okay.
PATIENT: And not - I mean I don't know anything really. The older I get the less I know.
COUNSELOR: What are you feeling having this conversation?
PATIENT: Just indifferent, frustrated.
COUNSELOR: So some of those frustrated feelings are coming back that we're having this conversation again. And it doesn't seem to be getting anywhere. Now when I reminded you of what we talked about two weeks ago, did that - that felt better?
PATIENT: Yeah. That's.
COUNSELOR: Okay.
PATIENT: I mean I don't know. Do you see any patterns developing that I have or?
COUNSELOR: Well we've talked about a number of things. And - and.
PATIENT: Are there (inaudible) things that I should do to reprogram myself or should I be reading certain books or should I? I mean I just feel like I'm not really like actively doing anything. I'm just coming in here and complaining every week that I'm and sharing what's going on with my weekly you know my week. [19:55]
COUNSELOR: Well I think that we've talked about a number of patterns that show up. And have shown up to throughout - throughout the - this is session 27. We're going to see each other tonight and three more times.
PATIENT: Oh yes.
COUNSELOR: We've talked about a number of patterns that have come up. But it seems that one of the big things that's happened is sort of you're satisfaction with the - this process has sort of ebbed and flowed. Then sometimes you feel very satisfied - sometimes you feel really frustrated. And I think it's useful to explore that - to talk about what it is that's satisfying or dissatisfying to you. But I also get the sense that when I bring this stuff up you can really frustrated with that like why do we have to talk about this. Does that - does that sound right?
PATIENT: Yeah. I just - we talk about it over and over and over. Like why do you have to - I don't understand why.
COUNSELOR: Why we have to?
PATIENT: Why do I feel so frustrated in this therapy process too? I use to - I never felt frustrated in therapy before. I really didn't.
COUNSELOR: Do you feel - do you - is your perception that you're frustrated all of the time or that there are moments that are much more frustrating to you?
PATIENT: There are moments that are frustrating here that I haven't experienced in the past. I guess maybe it's the approach or something. We've discussed that before.
COUNSELOR: Well one of the things that we - that this process does do is to talk more about sort of when we get stuck. When something happens between the two of us they get stuck because the idea is that it's probably similar in some ways to when you get stuck outside of this avenue. [21:36]
PATIENT: I don't get stuck in my interpersonal relationships with other people really.
COUNSELOR: Just in here.
PATIENT: I mean it's a different type of experience. I mean I make decisions and I have fairly good communication skills. I'm pretty confident about that but. I don't know. I don't think we talk about things that are pertinent to me. We don't talk about boundaries. We don't talk about behavior. We don't talk about you know things that I -that I'm - get confused about you know.
COUNSELOR: I don't get when you said boundaries and behavior. Can you tell me about that?
PATIENT: Like when I read Gertrud Russell's book on like values and morals and what they're. And it's sort of a bit of a stepping-stone or a guide to those types of things. You know? So then like that's valuable. And I know we all have to find our own way but I mean you know some people's boundaries is you know sleeping with ten guys a week. You know? And that's okay with them. Somebody else is a prostitute. Somebody else - I know a friend of mine is a dominatrix. Like everybody's boundary is okay. Like why is boundary of denying myself pleasure all of the time with - why is that my safety zone? Like why do I feel like that's okay? And how does that stop me from having a successful relationship in my life?
COUNSELOR: That sounds like.
PATIENT: These are all things that you know why aren't we hitting those more like nails on the head?
COUNSELOR: Okay. Let me ask you a question. It sounds like that right there is something that you thought about and is something that's troubling you.
PATIENT: But shouldn't you be thinking about that? Shouldn't you be bringing that stuff to the table for me? Like I'm so fucked up and unorganized in my head I just want to like - like I want help in structuring that stuff. I mean maybe it's hard. I mean I don't know. Everything's so obscure in this process. It's all about thinking and feeling and. [23:31]
COUNSELOR: It - It can be a very confusing process. Therapy can be very confusing.
PATIENT: But I mean you kind of know like unhappy. You know I don't know how to handle myself with men. I don't know where I want to live. And I don't like my job. So.
COUNSELOR: Those are things we've talked about a lot.
PATIENT: Yeah. But I haven't had any resolutions on any of them.
COUNSELOR: Right and you might not get any complete - I mean those are big issues. In three sessions that's a lot to ask for resolution of any of them.
PATIENT: But I feel like we haven't even like.
COUNSELOR: Gotten the tiniest bit.
PATIENT: No. I just.
COUNSELOR: Well let me let me kind of.
PATIENT: Okay.
COUNSELOR: Because I can see you're like really frustrated. And I can understand - I understand the source of a little bit of that I think. But I'm wondering what you just said about boundaries for example. And what some people are comfortable with and what other people are comfortable. It sounds like something that you read or thought about. And you're like well why is this an issue for me? And I'm wondering if it would be - if the something that would make it difficult for you to come in and say look this is bothering me. This is troubling me. This is confusing me. I mean be able to talk about that.
PATIENT: Because I don't - I don't. I do. I tell you. I tell you all of these things about all of these relationships that happen with these men. I mean I don't really think about it like that. I think that you have the whole pie and it's - it's kind of up to you to pick the pieces to be like this, this, this. Just tell me you see that as a boundary issue or whatever my issue. I don't know.
COUNSELOR: So a week ago or two weeks ago we were talking much more like on that level. Right? So that we were talking about who makes decisions or who - how you give yourself permission to be with somebody or not be with somebody. And was that a more satisfying experience for you?
PATIENT: Yes.
COUNSELOR: Okay. Now I feel like we're kind of stuck so I want to sort of step away from this a little bit and see if we can maybe get a little unstuck.
PATIENT: Okay.
COUNSELOR: Although I think it's - I think it's important to sometimes to look at. It's seems like we're - one of the things we're having is a negotiation problem about who's going to be in control of what we talk about. And it sounds like you think that.
PATIENT: I come in and share my experience but I can't figure out what's wrong with me. That's why I'm here.
COUNSELOR: Right. I understand that.
PATIENT: So I would.
COUNSELOR: You're asking - you're asking for help from me. That's the basic purpose of coming here.
PATIENT: Right.
COUNSELOR: But it sounds like you're feeling like you want me to sort of be a little bit more of a direct guide. And when I have been, that's been more helpful and useful to you. And when I haven't been, that's been when it's really frustrating and. [26:20]
PATIENT: Yeah.
COUNSELOR: Okay. Now to sort of step away from this just for a few minutes and. When you were talking about - we were talking last time about this whole idea of you - what a guy had to do so you could give yourself permission to want to be with him. And then you said you left and you went and you tried something different. And immediately your feelings shifted. All right? So that even between calling him and saying come over and him getting there, you were beginning to.
PATIENT: No. My feelings had shifted before that already. But I at least took control of what I wanted to happen next. Like I knew I wasn't going to fall in love with this guy or really like him because he was already a dip to me.
COUNSELOR: Okay. So - so you say you're with him. And you called him up and he came over. And since we had been talking this may be one of the places we're having difficulty or that I'm having difficulty is that you said you called him up and he came over. And we had been talking very clearly sort of about a sexual relationship that you were having with him. But it was unclear from your description whether that was what happened or whether you just spent some time with him or?
PATIENT: That - that's what happened.
COUNSELOR: Was it - was it - is there a reason that that's - is it uncomfortable to talk about that directly? To talk about sex or.
PATIENT: Yeah.
COUNSELOR: It is uncomfortable to talk about it.
PATIENT: With you.
COUNSELOR: Okay. Maybe we can talk about that. Why is it uncomfortable?
PATIENT: I don't know. I just - I'm just not - I'm uncomfortable talking about that.
COUNSELOR: Really? Could you explore that a little bit?
PATIENT: It just is.
COUNSELOR: What is it that's hard about talking about - about sex?
PATIENT: It's not hard to talk about sex with most people.
COUNSELOR: Right.
PATIENT: I talk about sex all of the time.
COUNSELOR: Okay. What would make it hard to talk about sex with me?
PATIENT: I don't know. I just feel - it's a subject of related discussion. It's a topic of microscopic discussion and I don't know why. I just don't feel comfortable talking to you about it. I don't feel that comfortable breaking down or crying like I'm really frustrated with like this close to crying but I won't let myself. I don't really feel safe. Uncomfortable.
COUNSELOR: You've talked about that feeling of not feeling safe before. And you said that you felt like I again that you use the word microscopic like I was saying (inaudible).
PATIENT: There are some days that I feel that we have a closer connection on and some days we don't.
COUNSELOR: And some days we don't. And today you're really feeling like I'm being scientific or removed or.
PATIENT: It's me too. I mean I have to take responsibility for who I am too. There's no blaming here but. [29:09]
COUNSELOR: Okay. But something's going on here that you're feeling not safe - not safe to talk about sex. Not safe to feel vulnerable and.
PATIENT: I want to be.
COUNSELOR: If you're aware of what I'm doing to contribute to that?
PATIENT: I don't know. (Inaudible).
COUNSELOR: So it isn't so difficult.
PATIENT: It makes it difficult to break through I think to all of the layers to talk about things.
COUNSELOR: And this - this possibility that that by itself is contributing too. The idea of breaking through the other layers is kind of a scary one. But I'm wondering.
PATIENT: Yeah. But I'm willing to do that. (Inaudible) through hell and back. That's like no deal to me.
COUNSELOR: It would be a relief to break through. But something about the way I presenting myself today - about how we're directing is making hard for you to feel safe. Can you think of (inaudible) like that?
PATIENT: Yeah.
COUNSELOR: If you could think about it, do you think you'd be comfortable telling me?
PATIENT: No.
COUNSELOR: You wouldn't be comfortable telling me.
PATIENT: I'd tell you if you wanted me to because I mean.
COUNSELOR: What do you think looking in your imaginary action would be like?
PATIENT: My feelings would be hurt.
COUNSELOR: My feelings would be hurt.
PATIENT: Yes.
COUNSELOR: So you're protecting?
PATIENT: Yeah.
COUNSELOR: Because you think - you think I couldn't - not going to be able to take it?
PATIENT: Now we're down the same road.
COUNSELOR: And have a?
PATIENT: I don't know. That's what I do.
COUNSELOR: You protect people. And you're doing that for me. Even though part of what you're feeling is that I'm being cold and distant. Can you tell me what's going on right now?
PATIENT: No. I agree with what you're saying.
COUNSELOR: How is it making you feel?
PATIENT: I don't know why I would do that. It's good to cry. I'm been under a lot of pressure all day. Thank you. I don't like to burden anyone with me but. [31:58]
COUNSELOR: With? Do you feel like you're doing that now? You're burdening me with you.
PATIENT: Yeah. A little bit. That's one of yours. You know I'm feeling frustrated or feeling like the process I'm feeling you know at the moment particularly that you're being a certain thing because I didn't even want to tell you. Because I feel that that's not real nice to say. I guess I skirt (ph) around it.
COUNSELOR: What would it be like to just tell me?
PATIENT: You know in a way - you know in a lot of ways you're like - like my teacher. You know it's regardless of the situation you know somebody who you know deserves respect.
COUNSELOR: Okay.
PATIENT: And so. You know so I really wouldn't just come out and say if I think you're getting - if I'm feeling like you're being incompetent or insensitive or you know. I think I have in ways when I'm feeling like this is like (inaudible) - therapy 101. I'm sure it's very insulting - to get insulted when I say stuff like that? Does that hurt your feelings?
COUNSELOR: Do you mention it though?
PATIENT: Yes.
COUNSELOR: You imagine that I'm wounded.
PATIENT: Yeah.
COUNSELOR: But I'm not. So some of the - one of the things that happens is when you're feeling really like I'm being incompetent or I'm not helping. It is - is you get more indirect about expressing your feeling. You kind of step around that.
PATIENT: Yeah. Because I'm not right. I'm not right. It's just what I'm experiencing.
COUNSELOR: You are (inaudible).
PATIENT: Obviously you're very confident.
COUNSELOR: And when we finally got around to what the heart of the matter is so.
PATIENT: How would me saying you're being incompetent - how would that? When I know that that's not you know.
COUNSELOR: What would it be like to just share that as your experience? That that's just.
PATIENT: A very abnormal (inaudible) you know that you're incompetent.
COUNSELOR: Yeah. I you know this isn't helping. I don't feel good by what's going on. What would you imagine would happen between us if you were to just tell me that? What do you think - how do you - let's say I was hurt. Well how do you think I would react or respond?
PATIENT: Well I don't think you would tell you the truth that you were hurt because this process is not about you. It's about me. And I think as a professional you would hold that back.
COUNSELOR: Okay. So let's say I did. How - what do you think I would - do you think I would get more distant or do you think I would - it would affect the work somehow or it would affect my relationship with you? Because. [35:20]
PATIENT: Yeah. You would like me less.
COUNSELOR: Okay.

PATIENT: Because I'm not nice. I know I'm not. I'm not nice at all. Actually I'm quite mean and bitchy.
COUNSELOR: So you wouldn't want me to feel that way about you?
PATIENT: Yeah.
COUNSELOR: You'd want me to think you're nice? So if I were to be hurt and think you're mean, then I would not - I would not like you. I would pull away from you. I would - can you help me out?
PATIENT: You would see me for who I really am. (laughs) And you wouldn't like me. And you would be distant. And you would be self-protective.
COUNSELOR: Which is partially how you feel like I am even when you are nice. Sometimes you feel like I'm really distant and that just scientific. And I take out my microscope and I'm very. I mean you really - you really get this.
PATIENT: Like I have a weird thing that like my friend (inaudible) who I have such strong feelings for. Feeling she's very distant lately. And I don't know what it's about. And then lately she's been disappointing and irritating me. So I've been getting mad at her. But like - like she use to be so it would be like I'd would really be like I love you. She'd be like I love you too. And then I'll say something like alright honey I love you. And then she'll just do a little - she just won't respond. And I feel like well am I too forward? Does it make her uncomfortable? Am I too - I don't know. (Inaudible) it's true before (inaudible) shifting going on.
COUNSELOR: That's true. But I remember one of the things that we talked about recently about when you got the urge to go through men is that if you pursue they'll run away. And what I'm hearing you saying today is that if you expose yourself, people are going to get distant. Either by saying I love you or by saying I hate you. That doesn't give you a lot of choices.
PATIENT: That's true. That's really a good point because it really has been hurting my feelings that Madelaine's not responding to me that way. I feel like she's a guy almost. I'm like wait a minute. You're a girlfriend. You're not supposed to leave me hanging like this.
COUNSELOR: What do you do with those hurt feelings? [37:38]
PATIENT: I just (inaudible). I just don't do anything.
COUNSELOR: So.
PATIENT: I just ignore them.
COUNSELOR: Can you imagine saying to her I'm feeling really hurt or I'm feeling like you're pulling away from me?
PATIENT: Well I kind of called her and said something this weekend. And she - she said I was making plans and I'm changing them. I said you know Madelaine as a friend I said you know you're always changing plans on me. And I said you're a priority for me. And that doesn't make me feel like I'm priority. It makes me feel bad. And if that's the case, that's fine. But you know it's just not cool when you make all of these plans and like I just don't appreciate it. And she was like I know. I'm sorry, blablablabla. But I still feel like maybe the more she knows me, she doesn't like me that much. The more I'm knowing her I'm not liking her that much anyway so it doesn't - it's fine. But.
COUNSELOR: That's fine.
PATIENT: It kind of is because I can't have people in my life that disappoint me and hurt me like that. I don't know why it's - she's really - she's a little lost. She's very overwhelmed. She's very involved in her work life. She has a lot of social things that go on after work. So she doesn't have that much time for friends really - unless they're men.
COUNSELOR: I think - I think what you're telling me about your relationship with her it's important. I mean but I'm also aware that it's probably easier to talk about your relationship with her than to talk about sort of how you're feeling about.
PATIENT: I know. We can go back to me. That's fine. I was just trying to say like the difference between like somebody that I care about and how she disappoints. And it shuts me down. That's what really happens. Is that normal? Do most people you know do that?
COUNSELOR: To get shut down or disappointed?
PATIENT: Yeah.
COUNSELOR: I think different people have different responses. And I think that's what's important about us talking about this is to find out what your response is. And how that works for you.
PATIENT: I mean I just don't know who to be honest with anymore or. And the whole dynamic with you know men is so weird.
COUNSELOR: And it sounds like even here where I'm supposed to be the person you can be honest to, you often feel like you can't. You can't talk about certainly your disappointment with me. And it sounds like there are also subjects that are uncomfortable to talk about like sex. But that's I mean which - in some ways, I.
PATIENT: Well it's probably because I don't know much about you. You know I don't know about what you think about sex. I don't know you know I don't know what you're sexual orientation is. I don't know you know like I have a lot of my guy friends that I talk to about sex. [40:26]
COUNSELOR: I'm wondering since you feel like you don't know that much about me and certainly my notions or my sexuality or whatever. Does that make it - are you worried that if you say something I might be offended? It's similar that if you expose your feelings like I'm like oh my God, how could you know?
PATIENT: Right or maybe not relating them as to how that would feel or you know what I mean?
COUNSELOR: It might not be similar enough in my thinking about it to be able to understand.
PATIENT: Right. I have like my straight and narrow friends. I talk to them about sex and I get certain information from them. But then when I talk to like my gay male friends I talk to them like almost like their my girlfriends you know. They have like - give me a whole different perspective about men and sex. But it's just different you know. So because some of them come from more of the female gender experience and some of them come from the male gender experience. And then there's my male friends that come from a real male experience. And there's my female friends that come from a female experience. And then I have gay female - more acquaintances you know that sort of have more of like a male perspective on things. So it's like I think everybody that you deal with has a little bit of a different experience.
COUNSELOR: It sounds like they all have things to offer you.
PATIENT: Right.
COUNSELOR: They can all relate to you in some way.
PATIENT: Right.
COUNSELOR: But it sounds like you're worried that.
PATIENT: That I relate to them on a certain level too knowing what their sexuality is.
COUNSELOR: So is one of the things that makes it unsafe to talk to me is you don't know what you're going to get back?
PATIENT: Right. Like I had my first therapist, Jeff, was a gay man. And like so I knew there was certain things that I could talk to with him without - but then it got to a certain point I was like you know what Jeff I have scenarios that I really have to talk about that I feel like we can't (inaudible) with. I have to go talk to a woman. And then when I went and I went with straight, white woman, mid town. She was married. And it was actually very helpful in a lot of ways but she - she's very expensive.
And then you know so I feel like you know that's - that was my experience. You know? So I don't know if (inaudible).
COUNSELOR: (Inaudible).
PATIENT: You're married. I don't know if you have like a partner in your life. I don't know if you're single. And I again you know there's an enmity (ph) about therapy. But like you know when I was with Lisa and I know she was married. Her husband was a Priest. It was like you know. It was like things about her that I knew. So I think - I don't know anything about her private life at all. [43:06]
COUNSELOR: Right.
PATIENT: But sometimes when you just have a frame of reference like that there's like another kind of trust that's there.
COUNSELOR: Good. That's (inaudible). And certainly it's understandable that you would be very curious about - about that with me. It could be seen as freeing not knowing. Then in some ways it doesn't matter what I am.
PATIENT: Right.
COUNSELOR: That you could take advantage of the fact that you don't know. But I think it's important to - I think the real important thing is you're saying - I mean that's one possibility. Some people might feel that way. You're saying you don't feel that way.
PATIENT: You know I don't know if now that you think about it that you're right. I mean it really doesn't matter at all but.
COUNSELOR: But.
PATIENT: I think this therapy - something about therapy has to do with (inaudible). You know a certain weirdness or trust that gets built. So.
COUNSELOR: So.
PATIENT: I mean without that. I mean not without any self-disclosing on the other side you know how that is in relationships. I tell you something about me. And then somebody tells me something about them. And I feel comfortable. Like if I tell somebody my whole life and they don't tell me anything like that - I'm not going to open up to them again.
COUNSELOR: So it sounds like there's something about this therapy. It's different from the therapies you've had, about my opening up that's bothering you. And I'm wondering if it would be possible if you can just say what it is that's really bothering you.
PATIENT: It's not really bothering me. No.
COUNSELOR: No?
PATIENT: But I just think it would - it keeps me maybe from being more vulnerable. I mean because I just don't know. I mean it's like I'm stepping into a blind spot. (laughs)
COUNSELOR: So what you're saying is personally you don't feel safe because I haven't exposed myself at all to you.
PATIENT: I mean there's nothing personal in the office. We talked about that before. There's no pictures. There's no - there's like nothing. So like really it's so clinical.
COUNSELOR: Which is. Which would.
PATIENT: I don't think it's as successful an experience or as comfortable experience when it's in such a clinical environment that I said that from the get go.
COUNSELOR: Right. [45:16]
PATIENT: I tried to overlook it, work around it because I mean I'm nice in certain ways. I mean that's the way I'm nice. I'm very like - like malleable.
COUNSELOR: Okay. It's - I think there are two ways of looking at that. One's agreeable and trying to make the best of the situation and whatever.
PATIENT: Yeah. I'm malleable I guess. I think I'm more of a nice.
COUNSELOR: I think it - I think it's.
PATIENT: Malleable to my own detriment too I think.
COUNSELOR: But I think maybe that would be something that would be worth our talking about. But then maybe part of what happens is that sometimes you're trying to accommodate yourself so much to me that we miss important areas and end up sticking on a different level. Getting stuck. And maybe that's where those dissatisfaction moments come from.
PATIENT: I don't know.
COUNSELOR: We're actually just about out of time. But I'm wondering if in just the last couple of minutes we have if - we've talked - I've noticing that even in - even in the conversation we're having today which it seems to be more direct than we've been before about a lot of these things, I still feel like we're dancing around. Not maybe - what you know like in a big circle dance but we're.
PATIENT: Right.
COUNSELOR: We're still not quite - there's still some things that are not quite comfortable just saying to me. Does that sound right to you? And you don't have to say anything you don't want to.
PATIENT: Alright.
COUNSELOR: But I just want to make sure I understand because we're - we're - something we're getting closer to something. But there's still - there's still some.
PATIENT: I agree.
COUNSELOR: Something that we're not quite getting to.
PATIENT: That's when I get really frustrated too. When I feel like we're really dancing around. But can we like pick an issue and like get to the heart of it? [47:15]
COUNSELOR: I think we have an issue right now.
PATIENT: Okay.
COUNSELOR: But I still think we're moving around it.
PATIENT: So my ability to - I don't know.
COUNSELOR: But there's something. It's.
PATIENT: I know. I'm sure I do this dance - that I grew up doing this dance. I grew up doing this dance so that my mother wouldn't freak out and explode, so that my father probably wouldn't go on some like crazy tangent. Because I'm not even aware of it because my father was sick when I was very young. So I don't know what I tried to do. If that was behavior to try and stop my father from being crazy. I don't know.
COUNSELOR: I think we can at least say it was something to keep you safe. And it certainly seems like it's something to keep you safe in here.
PATIENT: Right.
COUNSELOR: And you're looking for reassurance in knowing more about me and maybe understanding me a little bit better to know what's it okay to talk about and what's not. And just before we stop I guess I have one question - one more question for you, which is, how has it been talking really about what's going on?
PATIENT: This?
COUNSELOR: This. Yeah.
PATIENT: This is good. This is what I want. This is we're talking about the heart of something. It's you know this was very good.
COUNSELOR: It's also hard to get to sometimes.
PATIENT: I know it's hard to get to.
COUNSELOR: And sometimes the other dance has to happen first.
PATIENT: And I don't know how I can contribute to it because I don't know like. It's like see your skill brings us to this place. You know not me coming and going. I want to kind of talk about (inaudible).
(LAUGHTER)
PATIENT: You know make - try and make everybody else feel comfortable and why that happens.
COUNSELOR: Did it - did it seem like that was what I was trying to get to you before? (Inaudible).
PATIENT: No. It doesn't seem - we just got there. And that's what we do need to get to because that's what I do.
COUNSELOR: That's what makes it.
PATIENT: And that's sucks out my energy all the time. And it's obviously not - not even that productive because it probably pushes people away from me in a way. People that maybe don't feel comfortable that they can be honest with me. I mean I'm working on that. Like I told Madeline the other day it's okay for you to say no to me. Like if you - if I ask you to do something and you can't do it, just say no. It's all right. I'm not going to get mad at you. Even if I do it's okay. I still love you. I should follow my own advice. [49:35]
COUNSELOR: But that's what I'm thinking. That sounds like a great idea but it sounds like exactly what you have trouble doing. To say oh God Pat you're so incompetent today. Why the hell are we talking about the same thing the seventy-fifth time? I feel like you're an idiot. You know? And that would be really difficult you know it sounds like. And I think we've gotten closer to something. And we'll see if we can - it's kind of hard to bring up artificially when you're not feeling it.
PATIENT: Right.
COUNSELOR: To say why would you feel if you are unhappy with me today?
PATIENT: Right.
COUNSELOR: So we'll just have to catch it when it happens.
PATIENT: I guess I just you know so it's all part of the process. I'm raveling and raveling and raveling. But I think that this is the core central thing that I do that perhaps is a key if we can figure it out for me to stop unwinding other things. You know like maybe it's something that why other things are not working for me.
COUNSELOR: We'll have to see if we can look at that.
PATIENT: Yeah.
COUNSELOR: What it's like to be direct. But we do have to stop. We're quite over time.
PATIENT: Thank you.
COUNSELOR: Okay. So I will see you next week. I'm wondering - I can get that.
PATIENT: I'll get it.
COUNSELOR: I'm wondering if next week if it would be possible to actually come a little bit earlier.
PATIENT: Let me look at my schedule. Tuesday. What time do you want me here?
COUNSELOR: Would - how's 6 o'clock?
PATIENT: I will - do that.
COUNSELOR: Will that be okay?
PATIENT: Yeah. I mean if I have a recording job do you want me to call you if I'm not?
COUNSELOR: I have a new number for you.
PATIENT: Okay. Let me get that. (Inaudible)
COUNSELOR: Okay. It's ***.
PATIENT: ***.
COUNSELOR: **.
PATIENT: **.
COUNSELOR: **.
PATIENT: **. That's the work.
COUNSELOR: That's this direct number.
PATIENT: Okay.
COUNSELOR: And that's my voice mail so I will definitely get the message.
PATIENT: Okay. [51:46]
COUNSELOR: So you can just call and leave me a message.
PATIENT: Okay.
COUNSELOR: And if for some reason you need to get you and me're just getting the voice mail and you need to page me or something, you can call the front desk, which is Blanca's (ph) number, which is ***-****.
PATIENT: Let me get that. That's the main number.
COUNSELOR: Right.
PATIENT: ***?
COUNSELOR: ****.

PATIENT: Okay. Oh, that's so sweet. Which too I have this thing about wanting people to like me. It's fucked up because I'm not always nice. And people aren't going to like me when I (inaudible). What are you going to do? Thank you.
COUNSELOR: Oh. Let me give you a (inaudible) and an envelope.
PATIENT: And I should put the check in the.
COUNSELOR: You can put the check right in the envelope.
PATIENT: Oh. I'm cold.
COUNSELOR: Yeah. The temperature in this office goes from 30 hot to 30 cold (inaudible).
PATIENT: This is session 23, right?
COUNSELOR: This is session 27.
PATIENT: 27. Oh my.
COUNSELOR: So we have three more.
PATIENT: Alright Pat. Thank you.
COUNSELOR: Okay.
PATIENT: All right. Good to see you.
COUNSELOR: Yes. Good to see you.
PATIENT: You incompetent thing.
(Laughter)
PATIENT: I'll see you on Tuesday.
COUNSELOR: See you next week.
PATIENT: Bye.
COUNSELOR: Bye-bye. Are you okay?
PATIENT: Yeah (inaudible).
COUNSELOR: Alright.
PATIENT: Bye.
COUNSELOR: Bye-bye.
END TRANSCRIPT
