TRANSCRIPT OF AUDIO FILE:
______________________________________________________________________________
BEGIN TRANSCRIPT:
PATIENT:	I should go first over there.
COUNSELOR:	I had just come back in there.
PATIENT:	Oh, okay.
COUNSELOR:	So, really, you can... I'll leave the door open.  You can come in and...
PATIENT:	Okay.  Here?
COUNSELOR:	Yes.  You can come in here.  If it's ever more than 30 seconds that I'm here.
PATIENT:	All right.  Speaking of things, I remember that we have scheduled for next Thursday...
COUNSELOR:	Yeah.  I wanted to... yeah.
PATIENT:	...but something at the company came up.
COUNSELOR:	Something has come up?
PATIENT:	Yeah, and if you can reschedule or...
COUNSELOR:	We can.  One of the things I was thinking after last week is we can actually talk about this I think... these kinds of things we can talk about at the end.  If you like, we can do that at the end.
PATIENT:	Okay.   That doesn't... doesn't matter.
COUNSELOR:	Doesn't matter?
PATIENT:	No.  It doesn't matter.  I think actually I would rather talk about it.
COUNSELOR:	Would you rather do it at the beginning?
PATIENT:	Yeah, at the beginning.  Although it's part of the thing that I said, I just think like I'd rather pay you at the beginning and like... because it's probably too long.  That's the... my mental...
COUNSELOR:	Okay.  Thank you.
PATIENT:	...structure.
COUNSELOR:	Your mental structure?
PATIENT:	Yeah.  And I also like the fact that at the end I'm... I'm... I think I'm in a different place?  But we can try actually.  It doesn't matter.  [2:18]
COUNSELOR:	We can... we can try?
PATIENT:	We can try and talk about it next time at the end.
COUNSELOR:	Oh, sure.  We can try it in different ways.  So, Thursday at 2:00 I think is what we had?
PATIENT:	Yeah. 
COUNSELOR:	That's not good?
PATIENT:	No.  I have a appointment I can't change...
COUNSELOR:	Okay.
PATIENT:	...at 12:00.
COUNSELOR:	Okay.
PATIENT:	It won't... it won't be over before 3:00 or 4:00 even.  
COUNSELOR:	Okay.
PATIENT:	No, 3:00 it will be over.
COUNSELOR:	3:00 it will be over?
PATIENT:	3:00 or 4:00, yeah.
COUNSELOR:	I can't do...
PATIENT:	I'll take 3:00.
COUNSELOR:	I couldn't do later though.
PATIENT:	You couldn't... can you do earlier than 3:00?
COUNSELOR:	Unfortunately, no.  That day is a little bit of a crazy day for me, but I do have some other... some other times have opened up that I don't usually have.  Monday the... what are your Monday's like?
PATIENT:	That's something weird.  Okay, it's not.  Monday morning is fine.
COUNSELOR:	Monday I could...
PATIENT:	Not in the afternoon, but I can do...
COUNSELOR:	I could do 12:00.
PATIENT:	12:00 is okay.
COUNSELOR:	That's okay?
PATIENT:	Yeah.  
COUNSELOR:	That's the earliest I think I could do.  Let me just make sure.  Yeah.  I can do that time.  Okay.  That was easy.  So, 12:00 noon on Monday.  Yes?
PATIENT:	Yes.
COUNSELOR:	Yes?
PATIENT:	Um hm. 
COUNSELOR:	Need a pen?
PATIENT:	Yeah. 
COUNSELOR:	Okay.
PATIENT:	Thank you.
COUNSELOR:	I also had wanted just to let you know a little bit.  Last week I had let you now that I'm going to be out for several weeks in January, and I wanted to let you know that part of the reason why I'm not sure when I'm coming back is I'm actually having a medical procedure.  So, I'm hoping for the best and that I will... it'll be about three or four weeks.  It might be sooner and I'm hoping for that and, of course, I'll... I'll let you know about that.  But I also just wanted to let you know that when I come back, I'm going to be laid up in bed for a little bit.  So... just so you're not surprised.  [4:38]
PATIENT:	May... can I ask what is going on?
COUNSELOR:	Sure.  Sure you can ask.  I had a car accident last year and I need to have a surgery on my back.  So...
PATIENT:	So that's... that's why?
COUNSELOR:	So, that's why.
PATIENT:	It takes place here in Chicago somewhere?
COUNSELOR:	In Chicago, yes.  Yeah.  But it's going... the first few weeks I won't be able to...
PATIENT:	To walk.
COUNSELOR:	To walk.  
PATIENT:	Okay.  Well, I hope that...
COUNSELOR:	I think it'll be fine.
PATIENT:	...that it'll be fine.
COUNSELOR:	Yeah.  I hope so too.
PATIENT:	All right.  Was it a bad accident or...
COUNSELOR:	It wasn't a life threatening accident...
PATIENT:	Right.
COUNSELOR:	...but it was a bad accident.  It was.  Yeah.  I don't know if you've ever had experience being injured or...
PATIENT:	Not.  No, not really.
COUNSELOR:	Yeah.  
PATIENT:	I mean, the only time that I had something like that was... that I was afraid of my life, but it wasn't a car accident or anything.  It was because I had... I had blacked out when I was a kid.
COUNSELOR:	Oh.  Those can be very serious.  
PATIENT:	Yeah, but it was not an accident.  But... so, no, I never had... and I don't know of many people that something like that happened to them.  [6:11]
COUNSELOR:	So...
PATIENT:	It must be traumatic.  
COUNSELOR:	It is a bit.  It is a bit.  The surgery was... this surgery was rather unexpected.  So, that's why I'm...
PATIENT:	Right.
COUNSELOR:	...trying to figure out how to fit it in.  So...
PATIENT:	I hope for the best.
COUNSELOR:	Thank you.  
PATIENT:	Okay.  So, and then...
COUNSELOR:	I'll be... it... it certainly won't be longer than...
PATIENT:	Right.
COUNSELOR:	...a month.
PATIENT:	It's up to your...
COUNSELOR:	It's up to my...
PATIENT:	...to how you feel.
COUNSELOR:	That's right.  And I'll ch... I think maybe what we can... and we can finalize this next week, but maybe what we can do is have like a... a check-in day in January and I'll let you know when I think will be a good time.
PATIENT:	Okay.
COUNSELOR:	Okay?
PATIENT:	Yeah.  That sounds good.  
COUNSELOR:	Yeah.
PATIENT:	I'll just write down.  That's yours.
COUNSELOR:	Oh.  What did you just write down?
PATIENT:	That... I wrote down...
COUNSELOR:	The time?
PATIENT:	No, after writing down the time, I have two... I have two Anna's in my life; one that I work with and one that I do exercise with.  I also have like bad back, but it's because life.  I was born with a bad back, so I take sometimes a yoga class, and so they're both Anna.  I just didn't write which one is [at home] (ph) and I was like, "I can't meet the same person twice.", like I don't have a lot of things to do.  So, I just had to write yoga instructor.  
COUNSELOR:	Okay.  And that's it.  [8:04]
PATIENT:	So, I think last week that was a different session.  Just say it that way.  I mean, I realized a few things.  I realized, first of all, that I feel a little bit pressured here; not... not with you, but with the concept of the factor 45 minutes.  It's set 30 sessions.  There is... the end if very clear...
COUNSELOR:	The end is clear.
PATIENT:	...and it... it does pressure me.  So, when I came here last week when... usually when I come here I feel like I have such a [deal on the] (ph) time that I have to try to go right to the point like I can't... I feel like I can't waste time on other stuff.  And last week you kind of... like you caught me on guard, and it's not that I thought it was a bad session.  I just thought that I wasn't prepared and I was frustrated, and I think that's why I was frustrated, because I felt like, "If we have to, here it's fine.  Let's sit down.", and... and I think that's why I left with a little resentment, and I think that's the main reason.  Because also it's the question that you asked me, "What do you expect from me?", I never been asked before, and it's... I mean, it's a very relevant question that I'm... I was not sure exactly what to say.  [10:08]
COUNSELOR:	It's a lot of new stuff last session.
PATIENT:	I'm sorry?
COUNSELOR:	It was a lot of new stuff last session.  
PATIENT:	Yes.  Yes.  And you know I told you that I want you to be smarter than I am...
COUNSELOR:	Um hm. 
PATIENT:	...and... and I felt like you wanted me to be more specific than that, or to be more specific.  In a way, I mean, that's the only thing I can say what... and I still say that I expect you to be a little smarter than I am, or to be my guide a little, and I can't say really about how to be and I don't want to say about it much.  I mean, I definitely like the unbalanced relationship, and that's probably why I'm here.  My friends... I have other people that I can... can be very balanced.
COUNSELOR:	What is it about the unbalanced that seems to be nice for you?
PATIENT:	In general I think I like... in general in relationships I like... I like to be taken care of like I like someone to take care of me.  I like someone to... it's not that I like people to do stuff for me, but it's more that I like someone to kind of show me the way in life.  [12:17]
COUNSELOR:	I... I wonder if some of what was difficult last week... because it felt difficult to me too.  It felt like a... a... just a hard session.  I wonder if some of that is because in the way that I was asking you questions.  I was less care taking than I was before.  I'm wondering if that's... if it felt like that to you.
PATIENT:	A little.  Um hm.  That's true.  Yes.  And I know that I want someone basically... and like I want you, as I said too, someone that will tell me what to do in a way, and I feel so many times... I mean part of my anxiety is about how to function in general I think.  And the other things can be really... I have no example at the moment, but little things can be really... sometimes can be... can... really bothers me for quite a long time that I don't know what to do, and sometimes it's even like how to plan the day and...
COUNSELOR:	That's not such a little thing how to plan the day.  [14:13]
PATIENT:	It... it... it... it even like, "Okay.  What should I do first?  Should I go to... I have to... I have errands to do.  I'm going to have to sit down and work and then I have to go to school."  Like there are a lot of... my day build from puzzle of different stuff.  
There are... I could work for a few hours in school and then I have a free... a few free hours, and it's not like only two days a week that... no, full days of just (teaching) (ph) and...  So, that's not how much bringing that I did to my daily life, because I need to plan my day, which is hard.  And sometimes it's hard; sometimes it isn't hard, but it also creates a little bit of anxiety between James and me. 
 If James wants me to do stuff and I said, "Ah, well there is my few free hours."  It's still my hours.  It's still my time and it's still my... it might be that I'm going to sit down and read, or I'm going to write, or I'm going to do something; maybe I'll do nothing, but it's still my time.  
COUNSELOR:	Like this time.
PATIENT:	Yeah.  But it's time, of course, this is my time so I...  Okay, this is my time here, so I don't want you to interfere.
COUNSELOR:	Well, it's funny.  You don't want me to interfere, but part of you does.
PATIENT:	Wants you to, yeah.  
COUNSELOR:	It's a dilemma.
PATIENT:	Um hm.  It is and I think it's also a little bit... well, it's... it's different because it's a different kind of relationship, but it's also a little bit with other people in my life that I want them to interfere but it needs to be on... on my own...
COUNSELOR:	It needs to be on your terms.  [16:03]
PATIENT:	...on... on my own terms.  And I have it with friends too.  And you know even little things like this morning; I knew it's going to rain.  Okay?  I didn't take an umbrella.  I... I didn't wear my boots... by... because I said, "Oh, it might rain later."  By the time that I... I'm supposed to be back at home like at 11:30.  So, that'll be fine.  It's just... it's... it's not even amazing.  It's just like...
COUNSELOR:	Like what?
PATIENT:	I'm looking for the word to use.  It's not a... it's not laziness and it's not like that I don't... I don't think ahead.  I don't plan ahead, and it's the little stuff that...  I stepped out of the subway.  It was raining and I got out there, so I can buy umbrella somewhere around.  And... and I just said, "Why I have this picture?"  
I have another very, very good friend that lives here in the city.  Dave, that's his name, and he... and it's a picture of him around, and he would tell me, "It's going to rain.  Take an umbrella.  Make sure the... "  He would... might even give me an umbrella to take, and I wish that I would spend this morning together with him.
COUNSELOR:	So he could have told you...
PATIENT:	So he could have told me.
COUNSELOR:	...to take an umbrella?
PATIENT:	Yeah.  
COUNSELOR:	Uh huh.  James didn't tell you to take an umbrella?
PATIENT:	No, and James is much more selfish.  He doesn't... he's... it's not... James and I are very similar in a lot of good ways and not the best ways.  I mean, it's not as good and best if it doesn't work for me.  James, especially in the mornings, when his mind is... it's very occupied with his own thoughts, his own worries, "The house it's got to be cleaned."  The morning is crazy.  He can't perform his own function.  He needs to leave when the house is neat.  He's getting better; less... less... what is the word?  So...
COUNSELOR:	Self-preoccupied.  Is that it?  [18:39]
PATIENT:	Not just self-preoccupied, but that... he can be self-preoccupied, but in that cleaning aspect that he needs to be... he needs everything to be in order before he leaves, and he said, "That is just my mental.  That's my mental health; like I can't start the day if my environment is messy.", and he's getting more loose about it.  Like, "Okay.  I can give that up.", and he does.  We dealed with that for such a long time but...  So, he's very... and in general he really needs me to listen to him and take care of him constantly and it's...  Overall I have hard time, because I'm not that... I need that too, and I'm not attracted to that so much; someone that is so...
COUNSELOR:	You're not attracted to his need.
PATIENT:	To his need.
COUNSELOR:	Um hm.  Hm.  And that was not so apparent when you were first with him?
PATIENT:	No.  The first year, no.  He was... there was something.  There was a nice change that since we moved in together... the whole concept of "together"; it's so appealing to him that he's...  There are so many things he just doesn't like to do alone, or with other friends, or without me; like going to see a movie.  
He can see four movies a week, which is up to him, which is nice.  But it's whichever... every evening it was about, "Let's go see and see a movie.", because, "I have things to do.", and I will have things to do next week.  I can't, and I don't like to see every day a movie.  Twice a week it's great.  I love movies but... and, for example, yesterday.  The last two evenings he really pushed it, and Wednesday night I... I met a friend and we went to see... we went for a dinner.  I said, "You're more than welcome to come."  "Well, why don't you go and see a movie instead?", so he didn't do anything.  And yesterday he was, "Oh, okay.  I'm going to see a movie at night."  It started at 6:00.  So, half an hour, and then another hour, and then another, and I stayed at home.  He didn't go because I didn't go, and we...  It was a very nice evening.  It wasn't... it was a very nice evening and I felt it was nice to be together but it struck me that all personality seems so independent.  It was very appealing because it was always, "Well, maybe he doesn't need me that much."
COUNSELOR:	Um hm.  But what does it mean if somebody needs you that much?  [21:31]
PATIENT:	When... let's put it that way.  I mean, when I feel calm and peaceful and attentive, I like it and I feel that I actually have the time and I have the capacity and I have the ability to listen and to... and to give, and I enjoy it.  But when I feel that there is... in my own world there is a lot of noise and I don't... I'm occupied with my own stuff, which I am.  This was less than the week before, but overall I am and...  
That's a good question though.  I mean, because I just feel... I just feel like I need to be able to... I think it's a few things.  I think it comes from different areas.  I think it's the... no, I didn't go back, back, back and backwards, backwards, backwards; but the lack of studying, for example.  It gives me anxiety, or the lack of structure sometimes.  That also gives me anxiety, because I feel like I'm lingering other stuff.  Can you say that?  Like I linger?  [23:17]
COUNSELOR:	Ling...
PATIENT:	Yeah.
COUNSELOR:	Yes.  
PATIENT:	And...
COUNSELOR:	You're neglecting other stuff?
PATIENT:	I'm neglecting other stuff.  Yeah, that's what it is.  I'm neglecting other stuff, and I'm neglecting other stuff that I should not be neglecting, and that is always like on my mind.  There is something that I'm supposed to do.  There is something I should do.  There is something that... someone I should talk to.
COUNSELOR:	Like paying the check?
PATIENT:	Yeah.  Paying is some... is something that I got much better, because I do it and then I don't think about it anymore.  It doesn't... it doesn't make any noise anymore.  Let's forget about it.  
And when it's our free time because that's the most challenging moment, or when it's free time and we're supposed to... I have Plan A and he wants to do B, or even with other people, other friends.  And like when... going back to being in Palestine.  
When I was in Palestine, although I was on vacation I had so many friends - ten times more than here - and family, and people that I know, and I felt exulted from being and giving and trying to make everybody pleased, which is also my... one of my intentions.  
I don't have it with him.  I don't feel like I need to please him.  In other relationship before, I had that the guilty [mess already] (ph).  I don't feel that I have to please my boyfriend, because he would be mad or something might happen.  I don't have it with James.  That's... which is good.  I mean, I do... I don't want him to be upset, but I don't feel like, "Oh, my God, he's going to be mad."  I mean, I have no problem saying to him... almost on the... almost in a way that I don't see it even.  Not to say that I don't see embarrassed.  I would like to see a little bit, but I can look up to him; almost like there is a... sometimes I feel he is much younger than I am.  He's my little brother.  I don't want to say my little kid.  And so it's little bit like having a brother also that you have to take care of him.  [26:13]
COUNSELOR:	A lot of the way.
PATIENT:	Yeah.  Although I never have I never lived with my siblings.  So, I don't know exactly.  I think it's imagined.  
COUNSELOR:	For that you didn't live with your siblings.
PATIENT:	I never.
COUNSELOR:	For a moment.  Yeah.  You know as you were speaking about pleasing people I was thinking that at times here I actually have felt the very same thing that you were speaking to please me in some way, or to be the pleasing patient in some way, and I'm wondering if you have felt anything like that?
PATIENT:	I can see what you're talking about.  Yes, but I guess... I can see why you're saying it.  I remember like... but I don't... I know that my first intention when I meet someone, either it's work or other circumstance is to make him like me and... and... or probably I brought it over here too.  I mean, I did the same thing, so I can see why you're saying it, and I think it has to do with so many things.  I mean, it has to do also with the fact that I was so afraid to come out, which was so not a problem.
COUNSELOR:	But the fear was.
PATIENT:	Yes.  And this week I also... I have a aunt.  She's my father's sister.  She lives in Massachusetts, and she's my closest relative in America.  Unfortunately she's not a very nice person, but she's... she tries to be in touch with me, and I... I never told her that I'm gay and from her questions I assume that she... if she knew... she has no idea.  Maybe she had and she was too frightened to say, or she wasn't sure.  And I met with them two weeks ago.  I don't remember if I told you or not.  I met with them like two weeks and she was... and I had the opportunity to talk about it and I didn't.  And this was after the week that I came out almost to all my colleagues at work and...
COUNSELOR:	That you told me about.
PATIENT:	Yeah.  And it was almost seemed like to be, like my friend said, "This is the way.  You go, 'Hi, I'm (inaudible at 29:36) and gay.  How are you?'"  No, he said it for fun.  No, but it seemed to me to be so natural by that point and it... it wasn't.  It was very hard and I just... I felt very bad afterwards and I decided to write her an e-mail, which I thought, "This is not the right way to do it, but I'll do it anyway because I don't see her that often and it is important for me to... to tell the truth." 
COUNSELOR:	To tell the truth.
PATIENT:	Yeah.  So, I did and I never heard back from her.  
COUNSELOR:	Ooh.
PATIENT:	Well, I did it on Monday.
COUNSELOR:	Oh, Monday of this week?
PATIENT:	Yeah.  I didn't get any...
COUNSELOR: 	It's unfortunate.
PATIENT:	Um hm.  ...reaction but... and I expected to react and I expected to react okay, but if I... I don't what will be reaction.  It might be even a relief.  I really, really like her.  She's with her boyfriend.  I mean, she's really not a nice person.  She's very... pretty much self-centered.  It's unbelievable how self-centered she is, but the man she is with, her partner, he's very... a really nice man and I... I don't think he would have any problem with that, but then she might.  
Never mind, but I did it and I was... also this weekend I was... it's something I didn't do; I've never done before talking to her.  And I did it and I didn't... I mean, every day when I checked my e-mail I thought about it, but it didn't... it's like paying the check same way.  When you say it, it's over.  You're done it.  You don't think about it so much.  
COUNSELOR: 	Um hm.  So, that's the case with this as well?
PATIENT: 	Yes, although there is no response.  That's why also it might be better when you say it.  Then you have immediate response when you do it directly.
COUNSELOR:	Oh, directly.  Yeah. 
PATIENT:	I'm looking at it.  I mean, at the same time in the last two weeks, I mean, I did a few brave steps that now didn't seem to me to be of any... not a big deal but... and James did the same.  He started a new job and immediately he came out, and I just have to... to... to move on, which he didn't do the last job and it's really bothered him.  
How we... did we get there?  We talked about it?  I think it's a... [32:44]
COUNSELOR:	I think I was asking you about...
PATIENT:	With the liked.
COUNSELOR:	...pleasing.  Yeah.  
PATIENT:	Pleasing.  
COUNSELOR:	And it... and it's interesting that you were talking about pleasing in terms of coming out or not, because I could understand how you would be fearful that this would interfere with you not being liked by other people, and yet it's such a basic part of who you are that that must be...
PATIENT:	That you can understand or you cannot understand?
COUNSELOR:	I think I can understand.  I think from what you're saying that I can understand that it would be difficult to feel like revealing a basic part of yourself might result in somebody reacting in disbelief or dislike it.  Is that what... is that a little bit of what you were saying or you experienced?
PATIENT:	Um hm.  I think there is something... yeah, it is.
COUNSELOR:	I think I just lost you there.
PATIENT:	No, no, no, no.  It is, but I think while you were talking and I think there is some... if I'll... not... not the sexual part or the gay part, but it has to do with the fact with other aspect of my life it's the fact that not so much not to be liked.  It's not just not to be liked; to also not to stand out and...
COUNSELOR:	Huh.  We were talking about that I think two weeks ago.  [34:37]
PATIENT:	I think there is something.  There is contradiction that I feel that I have between... well, sometime I think it might be just laziness, but I'm not sure it's laziness between the ambitious side in me and the other side that pulled back cons... constantly.  And so far the side that's stopped me from going for... forward in my... for example, in my professional life or even my... in a way my private life wins more successfully... much more successfully, because I'm just thinking now about my professional life for a second; about my art, my illustrations, my... my... in my mind I know where I should be.  Like I... I know that I'm talented.  I know that I have a very distinguishingment (ph) of that... like not... not for the sake of giving me myself a nice resume.  I won awards in digital stuff, but at the same time I just don't know how to... I... I'm... I'm really very... there's a huge fear of me while I'm working, while I'm reading, while I'm doing it, what people will say about what I'm doing.  I'm... I'm not alone with the paper or with my mind or my... it takes me such a long time to...  [36:40]
COUNSELOR:	You can't lose yourself or that part of yourself.
PATIENT:	I can't lose that part of myself; those voices of everybody voices, like the...
COUNSELOR:	What are they saying?
PATIENT:	...crowd.  What are they saying?  Different stuff.
COUNSELOR:	Different stuff, but the point is they're there saying things.
PATIENT:	Yeah.  Pulling me back.  
COUNSELOR:	Okay.  Why are they pulling you back?  Why not pushing you forward?
PATIENT:	Because I think I tend to... to give up or to agree with the... with the negative side, with the people that are obviously not good enough, not better than you are.  You're not going to get that job, dah, dah, dah, dah, all that.  
COUNSELOR:	Uh huh.  
PATIENT:	And then at the same time for... for example, I was supposed to do drafts for a story this week.  It was something in Palestine and they didn't like it, but I'm not upset.  It's kind of the... the other way around.  So, I said, "Look, I can do better."  It does push me forward, where the actual hard thing it is in terms of work is to go out there, show my stuff, do it.  
I had... I published one book a year ago in America that was not chose book; that was fair, but it wasn't so good.  Now, since then I change my stuff; I think I'm... I'm better, but it was also a technical stuff that I couldn't work for two years here because of my paper change...  [38:24]
COUNSELOR:	Oh, okay.
PATIENT:	...and all that.  But that was just... I felt sometimes just a little bit of confused.  I mean, I can... I also bring myself to go and show my stuff to publishers or people... to people and then I can get more work.  I know that maybe I should have an agent but... can do that stuff, but at the same time there is something also while I'm working, the purpose of working.  So, those voices that just...
COUNSELOR:	Still there.
PATIENT:	Yes, still there pull me back; don't... don't shut up.  And I think it has to do with the with the way I grew up, and I think the fact that... when I think of it the voices of... but probably the voice of my mom that was more individual voice, but weak voice compared to my father - and that he pretty much represent the crowd in our town, the other 1,300 people that know your business - was weaker.  
And what I remember about my dad, for example, was very... I think was very quick set (ph) of me in general when I was a kid and he was never criticized of my ability to create, or ability to be unique.  He... he always thought that I had something very special but... I think there is a... there are a few traumatic moments from my childhood when I've been singled out and... by older kids and they start laughing at me, or imitating my voice, imitating the way I walk, or... and that... and I guess I was so sensitive to it that I was so... it... it was shocking to me that what happened... I was very popular in my own grade, my own friends, with my own... in my own class and the first time we had... after a while we had a... we met new kids from another town.  They were older and my position suddenly changed.  They looked down on me.  They... they made fun of me, and I was in shock all of a sudden to be in that position, not to be liked, to be laughed at, to be left alone.   [41:41]
COUNSELOR:	When was this?
PATIENT:	Early high school.  
COUNSELOR:	And you remember it vividly?
PATIENT:	Yeah.  I remember it like it happened yesterday completely.  And I remember once we had some kind of fun activity, and it was like a complicated movement that I was involved in, and there was a game.  We were sitting in a circle.  It was a game and we played with a broom and you were supposed to catch the broom, and either I got very other afraid or intensit (ph) intensitly (ph) (note: sounds like trying to say intensely) excited, or excited, that I overflowed my tongue.  And I just remember they keep laughing, not... not because of that; just before I think I was... I was really afraid of the response or... and it was... I think it was a little violent and when it comes to be a little violent, I was always a little afraid.  
I mean, I didn't like any confrontation that boys usually had, but then I was at the same time lucky enough... I was lucky enough.  I was very accurate, and good in sports, and boy's (ph) games, and stuff like that.  But I think my... in that period of time I... instead of like building shelves and like say, "Okay.  I'm going to... I don't care what they say and I'll be myself."  They totally put me down and I was very ashamed.  
I mean, I remember I... I never told anybody that I'd been molested.  I never shared it with my parents and that's where I think I put my parent in a position of being... they couldn't help me or they couldn't support me, because I didn't tell anything.  I was too proud to say and... but I think I was mad at them.  Not... not that I'm not really aware of it.  I was too shy but...
COUNSELOR:	Because they didn't know...
PATIENT:	So, they didn't help.
COUNSELOR:	Right.  And even though you didn't tell them, wouldn't it have been great if they had known anyway?
PATIENT:	Um hm.  
COUNSELOR:	Is that true do you think?
PATIENT:	At that time, it seemed really that the worst to do is to let them know, because then I will feel like I'm not sure which side they're going to... I didn't want them to see me the way those kids saw me.  [44:55]
COUNSELOR:	Kids saw you.  But you wanted them to know anyway, so they could help you?
PATIENT:	Now I'm thinking of the kids.  Then, no, I really didn't want them to know.  I made everything that... it... they would never know, and they didn't.  
COUNSELOR:	They didn't know?
PATIENT:	No.  My parents until very... I think, oh, until kind of when I came out to them I had such a fixed image about who I am. And also my brother and sister that I was really prayed (ph) with.  I was like the... my brother.  I wasn't aware of it until he really talked to me about it last year.  Reyza is almost like a perfect guy that you would never be able to be like.  And my sister always followed my steps, and she wanted to be with me, and to be like me, and she had a really hard time when I had another friend.  And my parents thought I was... of course, they thought that I was some downside to me, but it was more like maybe that I'm lazy, or maybe that I'm careless, or whatever of it.  First of all, they saw me... saw me as very successful with girls, very popular, and they built this kind of image that you want to keep it a child.  
COUNSELOR:	Of course, you were pleasing.  [46:35]
PATIENT:	Yes.  
COUNSELOR:	You were pleasing.  
PATIENT:	And when I came out, I think it... that was so hard for my mom that something in her image of me broke.  It totally collapsed.  And for my dad it wasn't that... it was bad, but not as much because he didn't have that perfect image of me anyhow and...
COUNSELOR:	Yes.  Just about time.  Did you have another thought?  You look like you had another thought?
PATIENT:	No, I was thinking just of... about my dad for a second that... how... one of the thing that I'm really happy about where I am now in life that my relationship with him is so much better than it used to be.  
COUNSELOR:	Compared to when?
PATIENT:	Since I... since I left.  
COUNSELOR:	And have been on your own.
PATIENT:	And have been on my own, yeah.
COUNSELOR:	Okay.  So, why... there are a number of thoughts I have, but we'll have to... we'll have to wait actually soon, Monday.  
PATIENT:	Next Monday.
COUNSELOR:	Yeah.  So... so, we're set for Monday at noon.
PATIENT:	Right.
COUNSELOR:	I think that's it.
PATIENT:	Yeah.
COUNSELOR:	Nice end.  
PATIENT:	Yeah.
COUNSELOR:	Okay.  
PATIENT:	I can stay here.  I...
COUNSELOR:	Yes.  Oh, that's right.  Knew I was... I want to say something.  Yes, actually.  I sound... signed out the room for a little bit longer.  So...
PATIENT:	Thank you.
COUNSELOR:	You're welcome.
PATIENT:	Let me.  I don't have a pen.
COUNSELOR:	Well, I can lend you a pen.  
PATIENT:	Then I have... I have several pens here.  Yeah, I do.
COUNSELOR:	You do?  Okay.  Okay.  So, I'll see you Monday?
PATIENT:	Yeah.  On Monday at noon.  Have a nice weekend.
COUNSELOR:	You too.  I'm going to just shut this door.
END TRANSCRIPT
