Transcript of Audio File:
______________________________________________________________________________
BEGIN TRANSCRIPT:
CLIENT: It's really started; it's been going for a while.
<br />
 THERAPIST: Sorry to hear that.
CLIENT: I got up and kind of wasn't paying attention and ended up sitting in bed for way too long. Like usually I get up and I sit in bed and read a little bit, pet my cat, and then get dressed and go, and I looked at the clock and I had to be dressed and leaving the house in ten minutes. And I was just like "oh".
THERAPIST: How much time did you lose?<br />
<br />
 CLIENT: Like a half hour. Or rather I should have left, if I left in ten minutes I could have caught the late bus that gets me here at 9:20. As opposed to the one that gets me here closer. So I got here, and then my computer wasn't working properly, and I went over to get myself a new one, and set it up. And then that didn't work, two times running, and where I was working, another co-worker of mine was like "well I want to work there, are you done, are you done?" And so after I got to my office, I didn't have the right monitor cable and I don't know, just throughout the whole thing I felt really incompetent, like, so first I was just kind of frustrated, I'm like "oh my computer's being crazy, its Monday" and then when I was starting to set it up, I don't know, I was just like this isn't going well, and I had questions and I felt like I should kind of know the answers to. It's like I've done this kind of set up a whole bunch, probably 100 times at least. So it was like "why isn't this working?" And then my coworker kept hassling me about wanting to work in that space, I felt bad because I was supposed to have been done about 45 minutes, but I had to redo the whole set up process, which added another 25 minutes. And then something else wasn't working right and she was like "well I need to work on this other project" and really wanting me to move. And I'm like "well I can't do anything until I get this computer set up for myself." [00:03:19]
And then when I brought the computer back, I had the wrong cable, I just felt so frustrated and upset and just I don't know, I just, it seems like I just want to just go home, this is all so frustrating and so poorly. I kind of feel like the rest of the day is going to go poorly as well. I called my IT supervisor and he brought me over the correct cable and then a few things still weren't working, which is why I was running late, it was just like "why won't this computer turn on?" And I am ignoring it right now, well I had to leave anyway, it's not working. But yeah, so that's I don't know, it's just frustrating and miserable. [00:04:25]
And last night I was also just feeling really stressed and frustrated about going to work today, I just really didn't want to. And I started thinking about things going wrong, it's not really logical but I just am like, see I shouldn't have come in.
THERAPIST: What was the rest of it logical about, see I shouldn't have gone in?<br />
<br />
 CLIENT: Because everything is going wrong so I should have just stayed home. I feel like today, it's like its bad luck today. I got started late, I got into work late, I walked to my coffee shop, the coffee shop guy like dropped a container of Half and Half as I came in. And so when he dropped the milk we were joking about it, it's not my fault, and he is like "no, it's your strong personal energy." And he was actually kind of serious about my strong personal energy causing the Half and Half to fall. I'm like "yeah its true, okay good bye." And then just everything just wasn't working for no reason. [00:06:01]
Like my computer not working, actually didn't make any sense. The mouse and keyboard wouldn't work periodically, does that make no sense, which is why were like "fuck it, give me a new computer." And then they set up, I guess error messages and everyone's like "that's weird; I don't know why it's doing that." So I haven't started any of my work yet, that I could be doing because I've just been trying to get a computer to work.
THERAPIST: How much of this do you think is different ways of handling being really mad at work? They ways I have in mind are providing yourself with very good evidence that you shouldn't even be going there in the first place, you should be staying home taking care of yourself. Or I think arranging it so unfortunately the stuff today, even if you're not getting any work done for work, it's also a way where stuff is just blowing up in your face, which doesn't make it any fun for you. I mean, this sucks, no question. But also you're at work and you can't even do anything because stuff keeps happening? [00:08:04]
CLIENT: Yes, I don't know.
THERAPIST: I know that's not very charitable.
CLIENT: No, it's not even that, the primary thing I was, I just kept on, I felt like I was about to start crying and not wanting to do that, which is not my typical reaction to, or having computer problems or stuff like.
THERAPIST: I imagine these were tears that were coming because you were feeling so frustrated and helpless?
CLIENT: Yes.
THERAPIST: I mean sad, frustrated, and helpless kind of thing?
CLIENT: Yes and in the way which whenever something goes wrong I feel like this is further proof that these things are going wrong so I'm going to get laid off. [00:09:11]
And even though I want to be laid off in a way, I still feel like I don't know. I actually don't worry about getting laid off, I worry that I'm going to get in trouble and someone's going to yell at me about it.
THERAPIST: I think that the thing that you're really feeling, by far that the thing you're feeling the most and understandably sad and frustrated and helpless about, is about how you're being treated at work. I mean each one of those seems to kind of recapitulate what the bigger situation feels like I think. [00:10:07]
CLIENT: I think so, I do think so. I mean, one of the reasons I was frustrated with my coworker is that I need you to do something and she was clearly annoyed that I needed to do something. Even though two other people had said "oh yeah, you can set up in here, it's no problem, we'll just do this, it will be fine". And so when I said this is my work computer, I can't do anything until I fix it, she didn't really care. So that was really frustrating. It's just like "I'm your coworker" and p.s. what she's doing is setting up Windows 7 so that myself and other people can run around and install it. So I don't know, she's working and creating work for me. So it would be nice if she would let me have a computer. [00:11:12]
THERAPIST: Right, with which to do your work?<br />
<br />
 CLIENT: Yes, exactly. And then I also got an e-mail from the head of IT again really on my case about setting up training for this new room. And he sent the e-mail at 8:40 and he's like I need you to answer it immediately. And so I was like I don't have a computer right now, so I logged into web mail and responded and back and forth, but still I'm like "oh God, why is that first thing Monday morning." It's nice to schedule something for two weeks out. So I don't know, and my IT supervisor had said, "No, no, IT totally recognizes that this is difficult" and I can tell that he appreciates the work that you're doing. [00:12:14]
THERAPIST: And that seems like the opposite of what you're getting from him.
<br />
 CLIENT: Right, I'm not really getting anything positive about it from him or really from Gean particularly. I mean, none of my coworkers said that the (inaudible at 00:12:37) was good, but that's about it. (Pause)
THERAPIST: Yes and the computers don't sound like they're being any more understanding or charitable or helpful than the people.
CLIENT: Yes I mean, usually it doesn't really bother me that much, I'm like whatever, I'll redo it, but I don't know, I just felt so, like I couldn't cope with anything going wrong. I don't know, it affected my ability to be like "oh okay, well that went wrong but I can just do this other thing. Or that went wrong but you know, stuff goes wrong, whatever." It's just a computer problem, it doesn't really matter, I shouldn't get stressed or upset about it. Like if I'm having a hard time doing that and I just feel stressed and upset. [00:13:53]
THERAPIST: I think a big part is not just having nothing productive or no kind of outlet that feels helpful with your anger. I think there's some kind of fear around even being in close touch with how mad you are about what is going on.
CLIENT: Yes, I mean.
THERAPIST: I'm saying that feeling of sadness and upset is partly the reaction to how you're being treated by the world in many of these facets. But I think there's also a reflective of a kind of internal struggle as well? Where you're being set up all over the place, being provoked, not being treated well and when you get mad or try to do something about it, it blows up in your face. I think its degrading. [00:15:27]
CLIENT: Yes, it feels, its feels scary.
THERAPIST: How so?<br />
<br />
 CLIENT: So part of it is, it feels scary because it just feels explosive, I don't know. Like I'm worried I'm going to, I don't want to express anger in like yelling or saying something mean or I don't know, like I worry about reacting explosively.
THERAPIST: What might you say? [00:16:38]
CLIENT: Well I'm also worried I'm going to burst into tears. Which would be, just feels really horrible on a lot of levels. I mean, like for working in IT, the worst thing you can do as a woman is cry. Because then all of the guys freak out. And everyone's like "oh, she's really just a girl and she can't hack it."
THERAPIST: What are the angry, outburst things?
CLIENT: Mostly I just don't want to do them. I don't want to do this, I don't want to do this, I just feel like I don't want to do it, I think this is really stupid, I feel like what I'm doing doesn't make sense, and I just don't want to. [00:17:51]
THERAPIST: Referring to? Probably a number of things.
CLIENT: I know I was going to say a lot of things, I mean the way I feel with my computer is I was mostly pissed that, and I have been asking for this computer to be replaced for about six months. Because I've been having a series of problems with it. And I couldn't get it replaced, couldn't get it replaced, and then this morning, my coworker is like "we should just e-mail head of IT and ask for a replacement". And I was like "I can't e-mail him, my computer doesn't work" and my coworker is like "oh well." Can you ask him because you're in the same office and my computer doesn't work? And so he finally did. But I was still like, this is dumb, I just told you my computer doesn't work, I can't use the keyboard, I can't use my mouse, I can't e-mail someone.
THERAPIST: Was she being an idiot? [00:18:49]
CLIENT: Well the person that answered the phone was being an idiot and he is pretty consistently that way. This is like two different people, especially I always know when I'm talking to him because he doesn't really know how to talk to people ever. And one thing he does a lot, is he answers the help desk phone that I was calling, he'll make some suggestions, hang up, and then kind of yell to the office at large how the previous person was really stupid and why didn't they fucking try this or try that and they were so dumb. Sometimes he starts kicking furniture or he starts cursing. Yes, if we're lucky, he'll go outside and smoke, that's my preferred. [00:19:49]
So I was thinking, is he saying that about me, after as I am walking over. And then Barbara, who wanted me to move, I was pissed because she was just being passively aggressive and then she wouldn't tell me, she's like "oh I've been working on here, it's going to take about 20 minutes". And she's just staying there. And I was like "Barbara, do you want me to tell you when I'm done?" And she's like "oh yeah, that'd be great, sure." But every time she'd walk by she'd stick her head in and ask "are you done yet?" And I don't know if you don't want me to sit at my own computer than can I go home now? Because I can't do anything. [00:20:54]
The other thing is that, I really, I'm really, really tired of having to do support, write documentation for things that don't make sense and don't work well, that I've already said doesn't make sense and doesn't work well. And I don't know, I've tried to see if anyone else would do it. And it just, what would happen is the head of IT would push it back to IT and then IT is like no you have to write it. So then I've tried it, asked Gean if maybe, "is there any way that you could work on this" and he's like "no, this definitely falls in our department so you should do it." And I actually don't see how it falls in our department but it's kind of hard to argue. [00:22:09]
Well we do technology and media so this is technology.
THERAPIST: What do you want to say?
CLIENT: I want to say "well why don't you do it?" In the end I'm just like I don't want to do it.
THERAPIST: More, in an ideal world, rather than why don't you do it, like I'm not quite sure what it is, some of it, my impression is that your impression is that he's kind of wriggling out of doing something that he could potentially do without acknowledging that that's what he's doing.
CLIENT: Yes.
THERAPIST: That there are certainly ways to frame it so that it wouldn't be seen as part of your department and he's not doing that either. [00:23:12]
CLIENT: Yes.
THERAPIST: And I guess most of all, the thing that sounds to me, like you feel is that he is totally shutting you down. He's not saying, I think about this as being part of our department but do you see it a different way? Is there a way we could, who could we off load it to? Or okay, if you can get somebody else to do it, let's talk about it. Why would you rather have me do it or something like that. What he's saying, at least as you're describing to me, sounds like its foreclosing on any further conversation. I imagine it as frustrating to you as any of the rest of it. [00:24:07]
CLIENT: Yes and I've been doing it, I've been trying to say for a while.
THERAPIST: One other thing, you don't put it that way when you describe it. You present what he said, but I might wave my arms and dance around about what I feel about things, but I don't think you elaborate how it's so frustrating to you or what he's doing that is so annoying or infuriating.
CLIENT: Yes, I mean a lot of it, he's just ducking responsibility. I guess a lot of it comes back to for me, is so you're my manager, you're allegedly this wunderkind manager or even if you aren't wonder kind manager, you are my manager and whenever I ask you to do something for me, he doesn't do it. If he doesn't back me up for, as far as I can tell for anything, like if I ask him, the only thing he did back me up sort of, is that I told him I flat out refused to work with George Breneman (ph) ever. [00:25:35]
And so of course they come to our department, their computer that he does, and I'm like well that's good, except for George Breneman's computer questions are almost things that you should be doing anyway, because they're media requests and I don't do media, I do technology.
THERAPIST: So it's impossible to tell whether he's just doing what's actually his job or he's backing you up?
CLIENT: Yes, I mean he seems to think he's doing his job. I feel like well, the fact that people who have worked on videos and I haven't been asked to work on them, doesn't really mean that Gean has done anything. And more to the point, doesn't actually address the multiple problems I have with George Breneman. [00:26:40]
And Gean still won't really acknowledge that that project was really horrible for me. I think that's one of the frustrating things is he just won't really agree, not even agree with me, although that would be awesome, he doesn't want to acknowledge how I saw things happening. So that when I'm like "George Breneman treated me really crappily." Gean will be like "he's always treated me well." I don't care. And more explicitly in general, the transition of things, he's like said I shouldn't argue with anyone, I should just do whatever I'm told to do. [00:27:51]
Which I don't know, doesn't work wonderfully with my personality and also I'm just like I don't think that makes sense because people ask to do a lot of things that I'm not going to do. (Pause).
THERAPIST: What I expect you think went wrong is what he's saying is bullshit.
CLIENT: Yes, I really don't agree with him and also I feel like he's my manager he's supposed to deal with difficult situations or blah, blah, blah.
THERAPIST: Right, look out for you I would think.
CLIENT: Yes, and he's not.
THERAPIST: Yes you've certainly never told me of any instance where he has helped you out in any way. [00:28:56]
CLIENT: Yes. And so it just feels frustrating like I can't, I'm kind of like I want support from someone at a higher level than me. And I just can't get it. So I don't know, I'm kind of like should I try something else? Should I give up? And I just feel like I don't know.
THERAPIST: You are kind of alone and adrift.
CLIENT: Yes, I mean, also I feel like weirdly ignored, both ignored and not ignored.
THERAPIST: Has anybody been paying attention to what's actually going on with you or what you want or what kind of help you need?
CLIENT: Yes.
THERAPIST: That's getting totally ignored. But not the part where people are asking you to do stuff or getting annoyed with you or making demands. [00:30:10]
CLIENT: Yes, when people totally know I'm there for fixing computers and for running over last minute to fix things. But everything else it's like I don't exist. And I just want someone to pay attention or say something went well. And I can't get it. I think if I asked Gean directly, he would get really defensive and be like "What are you talking about, I totally complimented you at some point and blah, blah, blah, and besides everyone's busy with the transition and" and I know Chris would just sort of incoherently flail around and probably fail to actually compliment me. [00:31:20]
I've tried with other people and it's just not really gotten anywhere. So I guess part of my fear of getting angry is will they get upset and it causes a problem, I don't think Gean would support me, if there was, like where it got to the level of managers talking to managers, I think he would be completely unsupportive. And I don't know who would be helpful. Like HR doesn't care, far as me, so I don't know. [00:32:22]
THERAPIST: Is it that your concerned about being angry or feeling upset have to do with what would happen if it spilled over at work? Then you'd be even more screwed?
CLIENT: Yes.
<br />
 THERAPIST: And you'd put more of yourself out there and be even more discounted.
CLIENT: Yes. I mean we're all stressed right now, we're all really busy is a lot of what I hear. And I am just like well okay. Yes we are all stressed and busy, additionally, I am really frustrated if everybody is stressed and busy it doesn't mean that you get to ignore everyone. [00:33:32]
Also this is partially from watching a terrible reality show. Which is this hair dresser from another reality show and she's a kind of intense, bossy Australian, lesbian. And the show is that a hair salon is having problems and she come in and she's like "Jesus Christ what the hell's wrong with all of you people?" And she's very blunt, she comes in and restructures and tries to make it a viable business again. And so this last episode was on, they had this guy who was kind of really emotionless robot person. And one of the things was, the managers he had appointed didn't think they had any power to make decisions. And that if they made decisions he would undercut them. [00:34:44]
THERAPIST: He was the?<br />
<br />
 CLIENT: He owned the business, he was a stockbroker who bought the business. And he didn't know anything about hair salon, he hired two managers to run the salon.
THERAPIST: But couldn't actually make decisions?<br />
<br />
 CLIENT: Yes and so the head of the show was like you really need to empower your managers to make decisions, if they feel empowered than the work place would be smoother.
<br />
 THERAPIST: This is somebody else?<br />
<br />
 CLIENT: She was like in order to make this business your managers have to be empowered. And the guy who owned the business was like no. He's like "no, I will totally empower them," no they won't. And so she ended up going on to empowering managers and empowering them to make decisions. [00:35:32]
And I'm like yes, I don't feel empowered to make decisions. I don't feel like I have the power to make decisions and I can't get people to make decisions right now. Like no one wants to make any decisions about anything. Like you can sort of get things done day to day about level, but beyond that no one wants to take responsibility for any decisions, no one wants to make a decision.
THERAPIST: I see, because of the impending restructuring, nobody wants to stick their neck out in any way?
CLIENT: Yes and also feeling like if I make this decision now, who knows in a month someone else might reverse it so it would be a waste of time and money.
THERAPIST: I see. [00:36:30]
CLIENT: And just sort of well maybe this product doesn't work in our new vision, with the library so let's just delay. But instead of just saying let's just delay this for two months, it's more like well I don't know, back and forth, back and forth, and people saying yes and then no, and then yes. And it's really makes me angry and frustrated because I can't do anything without someone approving it, but I can't get someone to approve anything. So I'm just, I don't know, I feel I just, there's all of these things that I can't do. And then there's some boring department things that Gean wants me to do that I don't want to do.
THERAPIST: Tell Gean you want the reality star to come in. [00:37:31]
CLIENT: I do, it would be amazing. Because she's very no nonsense and just like no, that's stupid, why are you doing that?
THERAPIST: Yes you could have that new media room taken apart in five minutes.
CLIENT: And the thing is that she's not mean although the people eventually end up crying on the show, but it's very blunt and sort of to the point. And also not letting, she just says that just because you did it that way for ten years doesn't mean that makes any sense now. And so it would be really great if there was a way to say, I know that you saw a Power Point presentation on this at some conference this year, oh my god, that doesn't mean this is a good idea. [00:38:39]
And most recently, someone that was a level above Chris and these other people, she's like "yes, this new media room is so great, I'm so proud of it." And I'm just like who are you talking to about it? And part of me really wants to say can we have an honest and open discussion about this room? Because if you're really into it, there are some things that we could do that might be an improvement or a non-improvement. But then I don't, so I am like I don't really want to piss off someone at a much higher level and also I don't know if she even cares what I have to say. [00:39:44]
THERAPIST: We should stop for now, sorry it's been a shitty day.
CLIENT: Thank you, maybe lunch will improve it.
THERAPIST: See you on Friday.
END TRANSCRIPT
