<b>Dr. G. Sklare<br />
Solution-Focused Brief Counseling<br />
Kelly Transcript</b>
<b>INTRODUCTION</b>
The client in this session is a 10-year-old boy.
His symptoms are as follows: he worries about his family members' health to the extent that it interferes with his ability to be successful in school. 
One of the features of Solution-Focused Brief Therapy is that it enables the process to be brief. Thus, there was no diagnosis in this case. The two sessions were conducted around 1998.
This transcript contains some extra educational features. As a counselor, reviewing a session is helpful in improving future counselor interventions. Thus, the counselor in this case has provided notes regarding alternative dialog for some portions of the interaction. 
The other added educational feature is the use of headings throughout the transcripts to indicate steps and key themes in the therapeutic process.
<b>SESSION #1</b>
<b>INTRODUCING THE PROCESS</b>
Dr. Sklare: Let me tell you a little bit about how this works. Okay? You see I have a piece of paper here. 
Kelly: Yeah.
Dr. Sklare: What I'm going to do is I am going to ask you some questions. Now, some of these questions are going to be crazy. Like questions you have never heard before. Some of the questions are going to be hard to answer. They are going to be tough, really tough. So, if you have to take a few minutes to think about them, that is what you'll have to do because it is going to be tough. Now, the answers to those questions is what I'm going to be writing on this piece of paper. And, at the end, just before we end, what I'm going to do I'm going to take a few minutes to kind of think about all the things you've said and I've written down and I'm going to write you a note. Then what I'm going to do with the note is I'm going to make a copy for you so you can have it to. You can have a note and I'm going to keep a copy for my records. That's what I'm going to do. And, that is how it works. Now, what is the reason you are here? 
Kelly: For counseling.
Dr. Sklare: Okay. Yeah, I figure so.
Kelly: Like help.
<b>STEP 1 - IDENTIFYING A GOAL</b>
Dr. Sklare: Help with what? What would your goal be as a result of you seeing me? What would you say you would want to be doing better or different?
Kelly: Let me think about that. (silence)I don't really know.
Dr. Sklare: You are not sure.
Kelly: No.
Dr. Sklare: Well, let me ask you this. Maybe another way to look at this. Did someone want you to come here or did you want to come here on your own?
Kelly: Ms. Hummel gave me a note to just like come here. I did.
Dr. Sklare: She suggested it. What reason do you think Ms. Hummel would have said Kelly may need some help with something or may want to see someone or see Mr. Sklare about something? What do you think the reason would be that she would come up with?
Kelly: Maybe because I'm coming down to her a lot. 
Kelly: It is a lot of stuff.
Dr. Sklare: So, it is a whole bunch of things.
Kelly: Cause a lot of things are happening.
Dr. Sklare: Okay. Like what kind of things are happening?
Kelly: Well, mostly it started when my Mom had the car crash (starts to cry). Sorry. And, it scared me to death and I was afraid she was going to die and I was so scared because I didn't want to miss her because I love her so much. And then like one of her friends was in the car crash with her and she broke her ankle and I like her. Her name is Donna and I like her a lot. Her daughter's son fell down and broke his lip like his mouth open a little and that scared me. He's one of my best friends. And, Dad had a tumor and had to have surgery and that scared me too. (crying)
Dr. Sklare: You want some Kleenex?
Kelly: Yes.
Dr. Sklare: Okay, I'll get some. {goes to retrieve Kleenex}
Dr. Sklare: Gosh you had a bunch of things happen. People got hurt and you got kind of scared. You got scared because you thought you were going to miss them. Your Dad was hurting and your Mom in a car crash. And, you were kind of worried that something was going to happen to them. And, you do a lot of worrying a lot. Is that what you are saying?
Kelly: Yeah. I think about it in school and that is what is messing me up on my work.
Dr. Sklare: Okay. So you worry about people being hurt.
Kelly: Yeah.
Dr. Sklare: And, you were going to say something else.
Kelly: It all happened in one week, then another week, and then another week keeps on going and it scares me.
Dr. Sklare: What are you scared of?
Kelly: Scared of them getting hurt and I don't want them to get hurt because I love them so much.
<b>Reframing from the Absence of Something to the Presence of Something</b>
Dr. Sklare: What would you want to be able to do instead of worrying and being so scared. What would like to have happen?
Kelly: I would like for all the stuff to stop. 
<b>Clarifying the Goal</b>
Dr. Sklare: If I had some kind of magic to do that, I'd do it. I do that in a minute for you. You know that? But, I guess we can do is to figure some ways for you not to be so scared. Not to be so worried. Would that something you might want to think about and work on?
Kelly: Yeah.
Dr. Sklare: So be less scared and worried.
Kelly: Yeah
<b>Reframing from the Absence of Something to the Presence of Something</b>
Dr. Sklare: If you weren't scared and worried, what would you be doing instead? What would tell you, "I‘m not scared and worried." 
Kelly: I wouldn't have to worry about anything happening during school or worry about something happening and I can focus on my work more.
Dr. Sklare: So you would be focusing on your work. Is that what you're saying? So you would be focusing on your work.
Kelly: Uh huh
<b>Detailing Specific Behaviors</b>
Dr. Sklare: So that is what you would be doing. You would be able to focus. And, what would that look like? What would tell you that? "Kelly, I'm focusing. I'm not worrying. I'm focusing." What little things would you be doing would tell you that you are focusing. How would you know that you are focusing? What would the teacher say?
Kelly: She wouldn't yell at me and tell me to sit down or something. She wouldn't tell me to move up to the movie because I'm not paying attention because I'm thinking. She might not yell at me for that to.
Dr. Sklare: So she would see you sitting in your seat. That is one thing she would know. She would know because you would be sitting in your seat. 
Kelly: Yeah.
<b>STEP 2 - HYPOTHETICAL MIRACLE QUESTION</b>
Dr. Sklare: Let me ask this crazy question. Let's suppose tonight in your sleep during the night a miracle happens. A miracle. And you didn't know this miracle was happening because,
Kelly: I was a sleep.
Dr. Sklare: Right, you got it, have you heard this story before?
Kelly: No.
Dr. Sklare: You just figured that out on your own. You were asleep because you didn't know it was happening. When you woke up in the morning, you were not longer worried and were no longer scared. Even though things may have happened, you were not worried or scared anymore because this miracle happened. 
Dr. Sklare: Well, if this miracle happened and you no longer had this problem we are talking about right now, what would be some of the things that you would notice when you woke up in the morning that would tell you, hey, I don't have any.
Kelly: Because I wouldn't be worried any more. I wouldn't be uh-oh what is going to happen. 
<b>Reframing from the Absence of Something to the Presence of Something</b>
Dr. Sklare: So you wouldn't be thinking about what was going to happen. What would you be thinking about instead?
Kelly: I'd be thinking about happy things not like stuff that is scary like going to have a crash again or something.
<b>Detailing Specific Behaviors</b>
Dr. Sklare: So, if those thoughts are out of your head, something has to take its place because you can't have a void there. Something has to take its place, so what are the happy thoughts that you would be having. What would be the happy thoughts instead?
Kelly: They would be like nothing happening. Let's see here nothing is going around. I just know nothing is going to happen.
Dr. Sklare: So you know nothing is going to happen? You not only know nothing is going to happen what is going to happen? What would you be thinking about instead that would be happening?
Kelly: I'd be thinking about happy stuff.
Dr. Sklare: Like give me an example.
Kelly: Sugar plums.
Dr. Sklare: You think about sugar plums.
Kelly: Sometimes.
<b>What else question</b>
Dr. Sklare: What else? What other kind of happy things do you think about?
Kelly: That is a tough one. Let's see. Can't think of one.
<b>If you did question</b>
Dr. Sklare: If you could, what do you think you would come up with.
Kelly: A happy thought. Probably be going out somewhere having some fun with all my friends and my parents and family.
Dr. Sklare: Going out having some fun.
Kelly: Yeah, with my family and stuff.
<b>Detailing Specific Behaviors</b>
Dr. Sklare: What kinds of things are fun that you do with your family?
Kelly: Sometimes my Dad takes me to Huber's Farm and we do lots of stuff. My Mom she takes us out to eat and so does our Dad. She took us bowling. She took us to see our Mamma and Papaw and Grandma in the nursing home. Mostly it, I think.
Dr. Sklare: That's a lot. So what you are thinking about is having fun with your family going to Huber's. 
Dr. Sklare: Hard to stretch? Yeah, but, that is what we are here for. Gives you a chance to do that.
Kelly: Maybe I'll be helping him by not letting him bend down because he is still recovering from surgery and he can't bend much.
Dr. Sklare: So you would be picking up for him. Helping him around the house. 
Kelly: Mostly he does all these chores. 
Dr. Sklare: So helping with chores. He would know by Kelly is different. Kelly is happy now and doesn't seem to be scared as much because he is doing these kinds of things. That is what he would notice.
Kelly: Yeah.
<b>Subtitle: What else question</b>
Dr. Sklare: You said your Mom would notice. What would your Mom notice? How would she know?
Kelly: She would notice me being better because when I'm with her I'm mostly bad because I'm scared. I'm would be better with my brother when he is baby sitting me while she is out mostly when she goes to work.
<b>Detailing Specific Behaviors</b>
Dr. Sklare: If she were to describe Kelly as being better around her, what would Kelly be doing?
Kelly: What would I be doing?
Dr. Sklare: Yeah, what would you be doing?
Kelly: Helping around the house. 
Dr. Sklare: So you would be helping around the house?
Kelly: Yeah.
Dr. Sklare: How would she know? What would you be doing that would to say, "Hey, I see Kelly helping around the house what is he doing?" That tells her you are helping around the apartment.
Kelly: What was it?
Dr. Sklare: What would she se you doing that would tell her you were helping around the apartment?
Kelly: She would see that I am helping her out and I have a big smile on my face instead of an uugh.
Dr. Sklare: Okay, you have a big smile. If you are helping around the apartment, what would you be doing: Kelly would be doing this.
Kelly: I wouldn't put my jacket on the floor.
<b>Reframing from the Absence of Something to the Presence of Something</b>
Dr. Sklare: Rather than throw it on the floor you would hang it up.
Kelly: I'd put my shoes on quicker cause these are hard to put on this one.
Dr. Sklare: Little tough.
Kelly: And I wouldn't argue about what I am going to wear to school.
<b>Reframing from the Absence of Something to the Presence of Something</b>
Dr. Sklare: So, instead of arguing with her what would you do?
Kelly: Get stuff back in there pick it out and just wear it.
Dr. Sklare: So, instead of arguing about what to wear you would do what?
Kelly: I'd just pick it out and put it on.
Dr. Sklare: Is she okay with that?
Kelly: Yeah.
<b>What else question</b> 
Dr. Sklare: Would the teacher's notice something different about you?
Kelly: Yeah.
Dr. Sklare: They would notice something different about you. 
Kelly: Yeah
Big difference with this miracle happening the teacher's would notice.
Kelly: They would get more work better work. 
Dr. Sklare: Teachers.
Kelly: I only have one teacher. There is only one fourth grade class.
Dr. Sklare: Your teacher would notice you doing more work, and.
Kelly: Not just daydreaming about what's going to happen.
<b>Reframing from the Absence of Something to the Presence of Something</b>
Dr. Sklare: Instead of daydreaming, what would they see you doing?
Kelly: See me working hard doing better.
Dr. Sklare: How would they know you are working hard?
Kelly: They would know I was working hard if I got 100% on my spelling test and they know I would be working hard if I learn how to write in cursive little more. I'm not a good cursive writer. Writing more notes. We are writing stories and plays and stuff and we did one thing about the day in the life of a pilgrim that was your homework and I didn't do it and I had to stay in a do it. I tried to do as much as I could and it wasn't as good as I thought it would be. If I did it over again, I might do better and they might go, wow, Kelly is doing much better on this other stuff.
<b>The following is not dialog from the session but is included here as a learning tool. The therapist believes the session would have been more effective if the following dialog would have been included here: </b>
[This would have been a good place to ask a reciprocal relationship (ripple effect) question which was not done. I could have said:]
[Dr. Sklare: If your teacher noticed you doing these things how do you think she would act toward you?]
[Kelly would most likely respond she would be happy and explain the teachers reactions in response to his changed behavior.]
[Dr. Sklare: When your teacher does that how do you think you would respond to her?]
<b>What else question</b> 
Dr. Sklare: OK so you may do it better if you do it over again. What is it going to take to do it better?
Kelly: Work hard.
<b>Detailing Specific Behaviors</b>
Dr. Sklare: What would that look like if you were working hard? Do you have a window in your door? What would I see if I was looking through the window in your door? What would I see that would be different?
Kelly: You would see me studying instead of watching TV all night. Mostly I watch TV because I watch all these shows.
Dr. Sklare: In other words, there will be less TV time and more study time. Is that what you are saying? How much study time do you do right now?
Kelly: I only do it during school. Couple of times at home, I did it.
Dr Sklare: Oh, you did. Really? So, I would be seeing you do it more at home. I would be actually seeing you doing it how much?
Kelly: A lot, every night. 
Dr. Sklare: Every night you would be doing some homework at home.
Kelly: Yeah, every night except Saturday and Sunday.
Dr. Sklare: Except the weekends. Except on weekends, you would be doing your homework your schoolwork. I would be seeing that. That would tell the teachers, hey, Kelly, is not worrying about this and he is really taking a turnaround.
Kelly: Yeah.
<b>Detailing Specific Behaviors</b>
Dr. Sklare: Okay. I guess your Mom and Dad would see that too. Would she see you studying more and getting down to 
Kelly: Work
Dr. Sklare: What would that look like as you were doing that work?If I was to take a picture of you studying , can you close your eyes? Would you picture yourself studying instead of watching TV. Can you picture that? I want you to tell me what that picture looks like?
Kelly: I'm laying on my bed and I have all these folders of work of Spanish and stuff. Writing lots of stuff for work, extra credit, not watching TV just laying there doing work.
Dr. Sklare: Okay, open your eyes. That is the picture. You are in your bedroom laying on your bed and writing have your folders around you and from those folders you would actually be writing stuff down. That is what it would look like?
Kelly: Studying. There is a little dictionary next to my bed. 
<b>The following is not dialog from the session but is included here as a learning tool. The therapist believes the session would have been more effective if the following dialog would have been included here: </b>
[This would have been a good place to ask a reciprocal relationship (ripple effect) question which was not done. I could have said:]
[Dr. Sklare: When your parents noticed you doing your homework how do you think they would act toward you?]
[Kelly would most likely respond they would be pleased and then describe how his parent's would react to observing his studying.]
[Dr. Sklare: When your parents do that how do you think you would respond to them?]
Dr. Sklare: And so, your teacher's would see you getting more work done you would get 100 on your spelling test. Based on that they would say, "Aha, something is going on." You would also do better in writing cursive, you would be writing more notes, you would be studying instead of watching TV and that would look like you laying on your bed with folders around, dictionary by your side and writing more for extra credit and you would put your hamster in the other room at night so it wouldn't wake you up. Those are the kind of things that would tell you I'm off of this worrying stuff. I'm not doing that, I'm getting myself in control of myself.
Kelly: Together
<b>STEP 3 - INSTANCES OF SUCCESS-EXCEPTIONS QUESTIONS</b> 
Dr. Sklare: Getting yourself together. Tell me about some times when some of this is already happening.
Kelly: The question was? What was the question?
Dr. Sklare: How about the times when you able to and your miracle is happening for you and you are not thinking about it when you are when you are able to not worry or be scared. Tell me about some times when your not… 
Kelly: There are a couple of times during school, during the night. 
<b>Identifying exceptions</b>
Dr. Sklare: Tell me about the times at school when you get those thoughts out of your head.
Kelly: Before Christmas, nothing happened and it was all good and happy and stuff. Nothing was happening.
<b>Redirecting to solutions during problem times</b>
Dr. Sklare: How about after Christmas after this stuff started happening. Tell me some times when you were able to say I'm not going to think about that. When you were able to think about some of these things.
Kelly: It was one night I woke up and I got scared because I heard that knob turn or something. I just go up and said this isn't worth it. So I just laid back down and closed by eyes and waited and fell asleep.
Dr. Sklare: You said that you were able to say in your head that it wasn't worth it and it stopped it. You were able to do that?
Kelly: Yeah.
<b>Cheerleading</b> 
Dr. Sklare: That is amazing!
Kelly: It was only once that happened though.
<b>Mindmapping</b>
Dr. Sklare: Yeah, but it happened. It isn't worth it. You told yourself that. And it stopped. How did you do it? How did you do it?
Kelly: I just woke up and said it is just not worth it to get out of bed and run into my Dad's room and wake him up while I could just be sleeping. So I just said it is not worth it to wake everybody up. So I just went back to sleep.
<b>Reinforcing mindmapping and Cheerleading</b>
Dr. Sklare: You know what is amazing about that, I want you to think about this for a minute. What is amazing about that when you've got all this stuff going on, it would be so much easier for you to start worrying and start getting scared. Right? 
Kelly: Yeah.
Dr. Sklare: You decided I'm going to take the tough road, the tough road is I'm not going to let those things scare me and I'm going to say to myself it isn't worth it, which tells me that you can be strong when you need to be. That is what it tells me. And, you did it. You did it. That is neat. That is neat that you are able to do that during the night.
<b>Identifying additional problem exceptions or instances of success</b>
Dr. Sklare: Tell me about some other times you were able to stop saying thinking those thoughts. How about in school can you think of some times in school when instead of daydreaming and not focusing were you able to think about that.
Kelly: This year we started school before Christmas. I started focusing because I knew nothing was going to happen and something happened that I didn't know about. Why am I worrying about this cause it is just nothing. It is just nothing. I shouldn't worry about this because I know they are going to take good care of them. So I stopped worrying about it.
Dr. Sklare: Oh, I've got to write that down. So you said to yourself why worry about it because they will be taken care of, right. 
Kelly: It will be taken care of
Dr. Sklare: It will be taken care of , you were able to do that and you focused on school. 
Kelly: Yeah.
<b>Mindmapping</b>
Dr. Sklare: You were able to do that and refocus on school. How did you do that? How did you make yourself?
Kelly: It just happened.
<b>Getting student to accept ownership </b>
Dr. Sklare: No, I don't think so. Because what you are saying to me is, Kelly is that most of the time it doesn't happen, but this time it did. Right? So, what was different about this time? What was different for you?
Kelly: What was different was when I didn't think about this stuff and then... Another toughie. What is the question? 
Dr. Sklare: The question was what was different? What made it different this time? My guess is sometimes you let it worry you and get scared… 
Kelly: And sometimes I don't.
<b>Accepting ownership for mind mapping solutions</b>
Dr. Sklare: And when you didn't is when you told yourself why worry about it because it will be taken care of . How did you make that thought come in your head this time because that is different.
Kelly: I made that thought come in my head because since nothing has been happening like when I was little nothing has been happening why should I worry about it now. If nothing was happening when I was little now I'm older why should I worry about it now if I know it is going to be tooken care of and I don't have to worry about it.
<b>Cheerleading</b>
Dr. Sklare: I see. I see. You have some real good skills. Where did you learn that? How do you learn to do that?
Kelly: I don't know.
Dr. Sklare: You don't know. But, you do it.
Kelly: I just do it.
<b>Cheerleading</b>
Dr. Sklare: Yeah, but that takes some special talent to be able to do that, iy does. All those things that are going on and to say I'm going to put this aside and I'm going to think those positive thoughts and think about those nice things. They are going to be taken care of and concentrating on these other things. That takes some special skills. How did you figure that out? Did you learn that or read about that somewhere?
Kelly: Maybe I think
Dr. Sklare: Did your mom or dad teach you that or your teacher?
Kelly: I don't know
Dr. Sklare: But, I know you got it. 
Kelly: Yeah, I know I got it.
<b>STEP 4 - SCALING</b>
Dr. Sklare: It takes a special person to figure that out. Some one who is pretty smart. That is what it tells me. Another question. We have a scale 0 to 10 (draws scale). And 10 is that you will never worry even though these things are happening and you are taking care of yourself because if I worry it is not going to be good for me, or my Mom, or my Dad and or my teachers at school and because I won't do my work. None of that doesn't get in your way it is just gone because it is the day after the miracle. And, 0 is the worst the zero.
Kelly: Is when I'm thinking about it
Dr. Sklare: All the time, every moment. You are dreaming about it, thinking about it in school you can't concentrate, you can't play with your friends, you can't do anything, you aren't going to Huber's. It is got you all the time. Now, where are you now?
Kelly: Maybe I'm at 5 or 7.
Dr. Sklare: Is that right?
Kelly: Maybe a 7
Dr. Sklare: What do you think it is 5, 6 or 7?
Kelly: Maybe six.
<b>Assessing scaling rating</b>
Dr. Sklare: A six. Wow, that's pretty high, how did you get to six?
Kelly: I just say to myself not to worry anymore and I move up one number.
Dr. Sklare: Okay. What do you say? That I don't need to worry about it and it is going to be taken care of and that kind of stuff. So you have been saying those kind of things, It isn't worth it, those kind of thoughts.
<b>Increased scale rating question</b>
Dr. Sklare: And, for you to get to a seven, what do you think you are going to have to do. What would your Mom notice that is different about you that would tell her you are at a 7?
Kelly: She might notice I'm doing more stuff than all of this maybe a lot lot more.
<b>Detailing Specific Behaviors</b>
Dr. Sklare: What would she see? What would she see you do that would tell her, "Hey, hey, Kelly is at a 7? What would she see happen?
Kelly: Maybe. That's a toughie.
Dr. Sklare: Yeah. You just said something that tells me I think I might know the answer to that question. Because you said the things on here they would see you doing and your teacher would notice because you are doing more work. The teacher would notice that?
Kelly: Uh-huh.
Dr. Sklare: So in other words your Mom and Dad would see you lying on your bed doing your schoolwork and homework instead of watching TV for so much time during the night or day?
Dr. Sklare: [deleted comment -When you get home from school?] To get to a 7, you would be doing some homework when you get home from school.
Kelly: Uh-huh. 
<b>STEP 5 - CONCLUDING THE SESSION AND PROVIDING A MESSAGE</b>
Dr. Sklare: Now, is there anything I haven't asked you that I need to ask you?
Kelly: Not that I know of.
Dr. Sklare: Any questions you have for me?
Kelly: No.
Dr. Sklare: I tell you what I'm going to do. I'm going to write you a note and turn this off for a second. What does your picture look like?
<b>Review student's drawing of what his miracle would look like</b>
Kelly: These are the sugar plums that are dancing in my head. going like la la la happy happy.. This is a happy rabbit and this is brain waves think happy think happy.
Dr. Sklare: Oh, so brain waves can tell you that.
Kelly: And not to be scared and love other people and don't feel sorry for me and just be happy. That is when I was a little boy. You can see b-o–y.
Dr. Sklare: Oh, how creative you are.
Kelly: Says just be happy don't be scared. Happy, happy, joy, joy, happy, happy, joy, joy. 
Dr. Sklare: You want to keep that to help remind you. Can I make a copy?
Kelly: Yeah.
Dr. Sklare: This is what my thoughts are that I was writing.
Kelly: Writing a lot.
<b>Message consisting of compliments, bridge and a task</b>
Dr. Sklare: Yeah a lot. I'm really impressed about how much you care about your family. I can tell you really love your family an awful lot. You worry and that shows you care about them. And, you also really care about yourself because you know you want to get yourself together rather than be scared about what happens to your family and other people. You have some great ideas about what you have to do to concentrate on pleasant thoughts and take positive actions so you won't be thinking those negative things. Like thinking about going to Huber's, going out to eat, swimming, fishing, boating, skiing, helping parents with chores, cleaning out the hamster cage, doing homework after school. Those are all the things you thought about that really would help your miracle happen for you.
Kelly: That's mostly it.
Dr. Sklare: I am amazed that with all the accidents and injuries that have happened to your Mom and Dad that you have been able to stop your bad thoughts by telling yourself it isn't worth it. That's a real skill you have been able to figure out. To keep you on track, I want you to do the things that will help you move you up to a six that we talked about today. I want you to keep it up. And, we will meet next week.
Kelly: The same day.
Dr. Sklare: Maybe Wednesday. And, report to me how you are doing.
Kelly: Okay.
Dr. Sklare: I would like to know that. I will make a copy of this.
