<font size="4"><b>2: Woman Therapist: Male Client</b></font>
[p. <i>39</i>]

<b>Nancy L. Carlson</b>


An explosion in awareness of the
restrictiveness of sex-role expectations for both women and men has
occurred over the past few years, a change that was largely precipitated by
the women's movement. As women have changed their behavior and
self-perceptions through what has been a difficult and painful process, the
men in their lives have felt the impact. Many have begun to listen and to
examine their own behavior and their perceptions of the male role and its
attendant limitations and entitlements.


One effect is a developing men's movement that has spawned some
effective support groups and some men have modeled new behaviors in
parenting children, in supporting women in their careers, and in relating
more openly with each other. Most males, however, still remain largely
uncommunicative about their needs and feelings, avoid intimacy except
through sex, and remain isolated, competitive, and separate. With
concerns being voiced that the world is in danger from male-dominated
systems that rely on competition, aggressiveness, and power over people
and nature, many men are beginning to seek therapeutic assistance for the
growing uneasiness they experience in their lives.


<b>The Development of
Role Identity</b>


Until the late 1970s the model of
health for both men and women was the white, middle-class male sex role.
Male identity was defined as a series of developmental stages that generally

[p. <i>40</i>]

By 1978, Nancy Chodorow had suggested that the development of
gender identity for males and for females was quite different and that early
parent-child interaction, especially with the mother, set the stage for those
differences. Female children, she found in her research, were experienced
by the mother as like her and tended to remain in this primary relationship.
Attachment and separation, as a result, became the major issues of growth
for daughters.


Sons, however, were experienced as different from the mother, and were
pushed out (or pushed themselves out) of that relationship with a
consequent identification with a distant father and a loss of empathy with
the mother. Male issues of growth thus became independence and
intimacy. While females know themselves through attachments, males
know themselves through separation. Carol Gilligan has argued on the
basis of her research on the development of moral values that women see
the world in terms of connectedness and are threatened by isolation, and
men see the world in terms of autonomy and are threatened by intimacy
(Gilligan, 1982).


Males also, according to Jean Baker Miller (1983), often feel abandoned
by their fathers, many of whom have developed no basis for the exchange
of emotion with their children. Men encourage and even stimulate little
boys to anger by sparring physically or verbally with them, then redirect the
anger into aggressive behavior by refusing to let it be expressed directly at
themselves by punishing it if that occurs. The more hurt, vulnerable, or
frightened the boy, the more aggressive he may become. Disconfirmed by
his father, the male thus is often unable to experience directly emotions
such as fear, hurt, anger or sadness.


<b>Resistance to Therapy</b>


Denied the opportunity of a rich
relationship with his mother and feeling emotionally abandoned by his
father, the male has little choice but to become part of the membership of
the larger group that is dominant in the culture. With male gender identity
being based on dominance, separation, and "individuation and a more
defensive firming of ego boundaries" (Chodorow, 1978, p.166), it is
unlikely that he will select therapy as a way to solve problems. Therapy
threatens that identity with its inherent intimacy and relatedness, and it is
often viewed therefore as feminine, something the male must "not be." The
expression of vulnerability, emotional needs, pain, and confusion are the

[p. <i>41</i>]

Another may be the belief that there is greater emotional safety with a
woman since females are expected to be caregivers. Safety is, of course,
crucial to the process of self-exploration in relationships, and it may allow
the male to experience intimacy without losing his identity as a male. In a
controlled situation, he can reclaim the emotional life he has been unable to
live. He can drop his defensive boundaries, explore his fears, sorrows and
needs, and reexperience the losses of both parents. Integrating and
balancing what Jung (1959) has called the animus (male) and anima
(female) parts of himself may be more possible with a female therapist
because of her history of intimacy, relationships, and emotional attachment
and because she is his "opposite" or counterpart, representing his own
anima.


<b>Therapeutic Issues for Males</b>


Therapy with men is complicated by
issues that are directly affected by separateness and fear of intimacy. In
order to be independent the male has had to reject a relational life and he
very early, as a colleague of Janet Surrey's (1983, p. 4) described, learns
"not to listen, to shut out my mother's voice so that I would not be
distracted from pursuing my own interests." Any effort to reverse the
process in order to learn to respond to self and others' feeling states requires
a giving up of control and dominance. Such a process may require radical
trust and initially inspire terror and anger, then a confrontation with his
rejected feminine self, which may be unconscious and completely out of his
awareness. The assumption of male entitlement is in direct conflict with the
desire for intimacy in which the needs of his emotional self may be met.
Such a process may be very confusing to the client and require that the
therapist be firm, understanding, and patient. Since some males are more
aggressive when frightened or hurt, the female therapist may find him
returning to efforts to control and dominate as he struggles with his
confusion about himself.


<b>Precipitants for
Seeking Therapy</b>


Because seeking help is anathema to
the male sex-role stereotype, those males who do request therapy are often
in more serious difficulty than females (Kirschner, 1978; Rice, 1969). A

[p. <i>42</i>]

In periods of major life change, including divorce, death, or developmental
transitions, men often experience a feeling of incompetence and
lose a sense of self-worth. The extreme need to achieve and fear of failure,
the excessive need to be in control (DuBois, 1978), and terror when things
are not in their control make men vulnerable to seeing themselves as
"wimps," weak and unable to do what they "should" do. "Masculinity," as
Jung (1928) indicated, "means to know one's goal and to do what is
necessary to achieve it." This accomplishment-focused lifestyle for men
often leaves them susceptible to a collapse of self-esteem when it is based
rigidly on external expectations rather than internal flexibility and self-knowledge
through relationship to others.


Some men seek therapy because their friends, spouses, or lovers have
threatened to leave them unless they begin to change their behavior.
Unable to share their dilemma with friends and unable to change through
force of will, they accept therapy as a last resort in hopes of averting the
loss. A number of young college males on one campus recently requested
help for themselves to avoid hitting their girlfriends after being told that if it
happened again their girlfriends would leave. Each of the males had been
raised in a home where their fathers felt free to hit their mothers to assure
control and these young males were experiencing frustration with their
girlfriends' demand for equality, respect, and freedom in the relationship.


Sometimes the development of intimacy in a new or continuing
relationship is so threatening that it drives the male into therapy. The
conflict experienced in desiring the closeness and fearing it precipitates
confusion and avoidance of the very person to whom he is attracted. As
difficult as it may be if the person is female, the problem is confounded
much more by another male, as fears of homosexuality may surface and

[p. <i>43</i>]

<b>Therapeutic Process Issues</b>


With male development being
grounded in separation there is very little preparation for the first stage of
adulthood defined by Erikson as intimacy (1968). His charting of life cycle
stages of development holds that identity precedes intimacy, a process that
is different for women in that it may be either fused or reversed (Gilligan,
1979). Male identity development presumes individuation and independence,
and for males who are confronting the issue of intimacy through
attachment to another person, there may be a feeling of a loss of self, a
feeling of being smothered as the rigid "boundary between self and world"
(Levinson, 1978) lessens, and he becomes threatened by the experience of
engulfment. Since males often identify this experience with females, the
female therapist may find that he is projecting onto her the feminine side of
himself, so long denied and often so primitive and frightening to him. (It
will, of course, be important for her to understand that his projections are
his and not descriptive of her as she patiently works through these
unfamiliar and suppressed feelings of his.) What a man needs to learn in
this process is that he can become intimate with another human being
without losing his self and without being engulfed. In the safety of the
structured therapeutic setting, with its clear limits and boundaries, it
becomes possible to try out this feeling side of self with someone who
understands the struggle from her greater experience with intimacy. Once
he lets go of the control he has had to utilize to protect himself from his own
needs, he may reexperience his hurt and anger with both parents and
release himself and them from that burden. He may also reexperience those
feelings about other losses in his life. Then he can move on to adulthood
with its attendant intimacies and struggles as a more whole person, not so
dependent on the rules for being a man.


In the therapeutic relationship there is a sharing of the self with another
person who does not violate that self. There is, therefore, an opportunity to

[p. <i>44</i>]

As a male experiences these conflicts and enters a therapeutic relationship
with a woman therapist he is likely to want early assurances of his worth.
He may be wanting to test his capacity to control the interaction and ensure
protection from his own fears. He may become disappointed or angry if he
does not receive easy assurance from a woman who understands that
shoring up rigid defenses in that manner will only serve to support the
sex-role stereotype that is so destructive. In addition, if he controls the
interaction, he may in effect sabotage his own growth and undermine the
therapist's attempts to be helpful.


These power dynamics in the relationship of the male client with a
female counselor appear early and demand recognition if there is to be
resolution during the process. For a male to enter therapy and abdicate
power to a woman, with whom he is usually expected to be dominant, is
very stressful (Downing, 1981)—that is, unless he is experiencing extreme
emotional discomfort, at which time alleviating the pain is his primary
concern. The power dynamics may become an issue, however, as the pain
diminishes. The power issues tend to dissipate with an explanation that he
is in charge of defining the direction of the therapy and for educating the
therapist about who he is. Once one client heard that from his therapist, he
stopped disagreeing with every interpretation she offered and began to
express his concerns about his pattern of problems. Her responsibility is to
work with him on these issues, including those revolving around power and
control, and to assist him toward creating a more rewarding life. A
collaborative relationship is one of equals working together toward a
mutual goal, and developing a relationship of collaboration and trust
usually involves identifying issues of power so that they do not block the
process.


There may also be an expectation on the part of the male client that the
female therapist will defer to his perceptions of the situation rather than
to question them or consider alternative views. Deference to male thinking,
as inexperienced female therapists often discover, precipitates neither
movement for the client nor a sense of competence in the therapist. The
reinforcement of the sex-role stereotype for both people diminishes the
potential for developing a rewarding relationship that produces a commitment
to his personal growth and change. The tendency to avoid problems
by behaving as one always has as a way to avoid painful confrontation with
one's self is what brings people to therapy. Necessary to changing that
process is learning how to experience what Peck (1978) calls "legitimate

[p. <i>45</i>]

One therapist found that it was not uncommon for males to tell her that
she did not know what she was talking about when she said she sensed fear
in them in the first few sessions. They would reassure her that they were not
afraid of her, only concerned about getting a change accomplished soon.
One male said he wasn't sure he could trust her to care about him without
involvement outside the office, something she felt was a control issue. She
explained why that was not possible. Then he began to share his grief over
an impending divorce. She knew he needed the security of clear limits on
the relationship with her in order to feel he could be vulnerable. He became
anxious again when she explored the depth of the grief with him and often
tried to intellectualize it, blaming his wife for not caring and himself for not
seeing the divorce coming. Eventually the anxiety became overwhelming
and he was unable to sit still. He paced the office until she suggested that he
was afraid of being understood at a deep level. He angrily said yes and sat
down, realizing how little he had been understood and known for who he
was, how much he had missed all his life. Then he cried and told her that his
family had always expected him as the only male to take care of them, to be
strong and successful, and the provider of advice and action when they
were in difficulty. He was never able to receive or be vulnerable because he
had to be strong for them; even his wife did not know who he was. The
therapist gently suggested that now he could begin to be himself and allow
others to take care of him at times. He angrily said he didn't know if he
could do that, and she proposed that he would be withholding a gift, that
others wanted to take care of him but did not believe he would let them. He
relaxed and said he would try.


The male client may not be prepared initially for confrontation from a
woman and may become aggressive, defensive, or even threatening,
sometimes even terminating therapy. Men often accuse women of being
"castrating bitches" when they feel angry at being confronted with
something that is painful or feels in some way attacking. Firmness in
clarifying what the therapist has observed without judging him negatively
and without becoming in turn defensive or hurt by his anger is most often
helpful. In addition, the therapist may need to indicate that she understands
his pain and that such labels do not apply to her. Remaining centered,
consistent, and nondefensive in the face of his aggressiveness is often
crucial to his developing trust for her and a commitment to his own
therapy.

[p. <i>46</i>]

Defenses that limit the man's capacity to be naturally spontaneous and
expressive need to be pointed out and recognized as limiting. While he may
refuse to lend any credibility to her interpretation of his defenses, refuse to
focus on his feelings, accuse her of being angry at all men, and suggest that
she is not meeting his needs nor is she a good therapist, he will still need
tact, patience, persistence, and sensitivity from her to move beyond them.
As he recognizes these as defenses that are destructive to living a full life, he
will gradually give them up and replace them with more healthy and
productive behaviors.


Once he begins to see that he has a trustworthy, sensitive, direct and firm
collaborator in his therapist, the fear of being out of control and no longer
dominant will begin to diminish. He may then begin to experience a desire
to be dependent on her, which in turn often produces a fear of dependency
as well as a fear of eventual loss of the therapist. Becoming vulnerable to the
child subpersonality in himself, which fears being hurt or abandoned by
anyone he is beginning to trust and need, and admitting it can be a
profound threat for a male who has been separate all his life. Such a crisis
sometimes results in sudden termination, renewed efforts to control the
interaction, or a sabotaging of the therapy in any number of ways. It is
important that the woman therapist recognize both his need and his fear of
it and invite him to approach it slowly while she reassures him of her
commitment to continue to work with him. He is at his most vulnerable at
that time and will instantly move to protect himself if she is not clear and
sensitive to it. His greatest fears will be projected onto her then, and she will
need to clarify for him the differences between his projections, which are
reflections of his own rejected feminine side, and herself.


A male client indicated to his therapist not long ago that he was afraid to
continue in counseling because he was becoming frightened of being
dependent and feared that he would be judged as weak. When he was
assured that he was seen as quite courageous he visibly relaxed and did not
mention it again. He, of course, had judged himself as weak, and his fear
inhibited his natural expression of need.


As the male client becomes more able to experience his emotions,
including those that are painful and associated with his early life and its
attendant disappointments, he may continue to need encouragement to
share them. Since he may have few skills at expressing feelings, he will
require a very sensitive and perceptive confidante who is unafraid of strong
emotions. The issues of dependency, need, and sexual attraction between
the client and therapist will then have to be talked about. Encouraging the
male client to differentiate sex from intimacy by expressing emotional
attractions and intimate thoughts and feelings in words, rather than
through sexual contact, presents another kind of threat to a man who
expresses himself through action. A man who is at ease in making sexual
overtures may feel quite inept and embarrassed at speaking about his fear

[p. <i>47</i>]

Sharing deep emotions may also permit him to see his separateness, the
denial of his needs, his inability to express feelings, and his sense of shame
for his vulnerabilities as uncaring of himself and limiting of his ability to
give and receive love in his relationships. He may learn to stop evaluating
himself so harshly and begin to drop some of the assumptions that he has
held about himself and others in favor of new ones that are more empathic.
Each of the values he gives up will of course precipitate a period of grieving
until he can accept the loss and replace it with a value that is more
rewarding and offers him a more positive and deeper sense of self.


As he moves toward the termination of his therapy he may once again
begin to experience discomfort, this time with separation from the
therapist. Leaving an intimate relationship is painful, and he may try to do
it abruptly, thus aborting what some have called the most important part of
the process. If aborted, sharing the sadness, appreciating the process, and
building anticipation for a healthier life leaves both people with a sense of
being unfulfilled, unfinished. To share saying goodbye with an honest
expression of feelings about what the relationship means to both is crucial
to completing the therapeutic relationship. Then the separation can be
complete and fulfilled, and he can move on to assimilate his growth into a
healthier life with others.


<b>Special Problems for
the Female Therapist</b>


Therapists cannot move clients past
the point where they are in their development. The female therapist
therefore, has an obligation to grow beyond the sex role that traps women
into limiting behavior that in turn does not challenge the male client and
presumes a power imbalance in his favor and a caregiver role for her. One
of the earliest learnings for one inexperienced therapist was to let a male
client cry. Neither counselor or client had been willing for him to be
vulnerable despite his need to be. Once her male supervisor said, "Let him
cry," she had permission to challenge him, and he took the opportunity to
express feelings he had denied for years. It released him from a great deal of
tension and allowed for unanticipated change. Caregiving in that situation

[p. <i>48</i>]

Female therapists, like a large percentage of females in this culture, have
experienced mistreatment by males because of the power imbalance. The
abuse could be in the form of harassment or job discrimination or incest or
rape, and if not explored and resolved could have an unconscious effect on
the male client. Awareness of one's anger and hurt over previous abuses is
crucial in assuring that a male client is not in turn abused for the "sins" of
other men. The vulnerable male client cannot be forced to suffer for
something he did not do.


Since women have not been offered much opportunity to participate in
male-male interactions, it may be difficult to understand male competition
and threat, male bonding, and male friendship (which is very different from
female friendships), and women will have to spend time learning from their
clients what that experience is like without judging it. It is important both
for appreciating the man's life experience and for recognizing the anima in
herself so that she does not project what may be her own suppressed
masculine side on her client.


Depending on its nature, attraction to a male client may present a
difficult problem for a woman therapist. If it is toward the male as a son,
she may have a tendency to be a mother-caregiver who does not challenge
him to grow in significant ways. If it is toward the man as a lover, she may
be unable to see him realistically and may precipitate a strong transference
by being more unconsciously seductive than consciously helpful. If it is
toward the man as a father, she may relate to him as an authority and
support a power imbalance by either deferring to him or fighting him.
Either deferring or fighting undermines the equality required for his
growth in therapy. As attractions are often projections, they need to be
recognized and dealt with so that genuine attractiveness of two human
beings working in collaboration for the growth of the client is accomplished.
Caring for a client and seeing him for who he is provides the
greatest opportunity for that growth.


Repulsion for a male client may be the experience of some therapists and
such a feeling needs recognition before it has a negative effect on the client.
Continuing to work with any client one does not like is neither ethical nor
humane. An honest disclosure regarding the therapist's inability to provide
what the client may need and suggesting an appropriate referral may be the
best service the client can receive. This may occur when a female therapist
who has been abused is asked for example to work with a rapist, or she may
be offended when asked to work with someone who seems to be a bigot,
racist, or sexist. She may be frightened to work with someone who is

[p. <i>49</i>]

All therapists who are able to be gentle and strong, open and aware,
grow because of the relationships with their clients. As clients change they
have an impact on their change agents as therapists allow themselves to be
deeply involved in what Seguin (1965) calls the "psychotherapeutic Eros,"
the unique and unconditioned love a therapist has for a client, the love that
frees another human being to love.


It is an unselfish and undemanding gift to free a man from hiding,
disguising, denying, and avoiding his feelings because of an expectation of
rejection by both other males, where his self-esteem is at stake, and females,
where his dominance is at stake. No less can be given in a world where time
appears to be short and fears for our collective future are great. Women
therapists who have the opportunity to work with male clients must accept
the full responsibility for helping to create a different consciousness of life,
one where balance is achieved.


McClelland, (1975, p. 96), found that the characteristic of the power
motivation of the mature feminine style was that of "independence,
building up resources, and giving." When this is added to an achievement-oriented
masculine style in one person, a perspective is possible that is not
inherent in either alone. To do this effectively the female therapist must
become balanced herself. She must have experienced difficult separations
in her life that resulted in individuation and firmer ego boundaries and an
integration of risk taking and power into her sense of self. She must be more
comfortable with her own anima, her power to confront and create, to
change inside and to affect the world. Assuming an emotional, physical,
and spiritual responsibility for ourselves and each other may be essential to
our survival. Flexibility and personal strength arising from interdependence
and the realization of a connectedness to all of life are the building blocks
for both men and women to assure an individual and collective future for
this earth.


<b>References</b>


Chodorow, N. (1978). <i>The reproduction of mothering</i>. Berkeley: University of California
Press.


Downing, N. (1981, March). <i>Counseling men: Issues for female counselors</i>. Paper presented
at the American College Personnel Association Convention, Cincinnati, OH.


DuBois, T. (1978). Male therapists' fears of the feminist movement. <i>Social Change, 8</i>, 1-3.


Erikson, R. (1968). <i>Identity, youth and crisis</i>. New York: W. W. Norton.


Gilligan, C. (1982). <i>In a different voice</i>. Cambridge, MA: Harvard University Press.


Jung, C. G. (1928). <i>Contributions to analytical psychology</i>. London: Routledge &amp; Kegan
Paul.


Jung, C. G. (1959). <i>Aion</i>. London: Routledge &amp; Kegan Paul.

[p. <i>50</i>]

Kirschner, L. A. (1978). Effects of gender on psychotherapy. <i>Comprehensive Psychiatry, 19</i>,
79-82.


Levinson, D. (1978). <i>The seasons of a man's life</i>. New York: Knopf.


McClelland, D. (1975). <i>Power: The inner experience</i>. New York: Irvington.


Miller, J. B. (1983). <i>The construction of anger in men and women</i>. Work in progress (No.
83-01). Wellesley, MA: Stone Center.


Peck, S. (1978). <i>The road less traveled</i>. New York: Simon &amp; Schuster.


Rice, D. G. (1969). Patient sex differences and selection for individual therapy. <i>Journal of
Nervous and Mental Disease, 148</i>, 124-133.


Seguin, C. A. (1965). <i>Love and psychotherapy</i>. New York: Libra.


Surrey, J. (1983, November). <i>Self in relation: A theory of women's development</i>. Paper
presented at the Stone Center Colloquium Series, Wellesley, MA.


Van Gelder, L. (1984, January). Carol Gilligan: <i>Leader for a Different Kind of Future</i>, pp. 37-40.

