Transcript of Audio File:
______________________________________________________________________________
BEGIN TRANSCRIPT:
CLIENT: There's something that actually just happened that's making me super-anxious and worried at work. So I swung by the ATV just to pick up a piece of equipment that I needed. And...
THERAPIST: Sorry, to pick up?
CLIENT: A piece of equipment that I needed. And (inaudible at 00:00:42) goes like, "Oh I should have picked this up last week, but I didn't." So I was feeling kind of guilty about it. And then I talked to my customer service supervisor. I have an customer service supervisor and a regular supervisor. And my customer service supervisor is usually very relaxed, very chill, nice. And today he was kind of odd and was very difficult. So we were meeting at 2. I was like, "No I have an appointment at 2:15." And there was a little back and forth and "Should we reschedule?" I said, "Give me a schedule for 2:30." And he was like, "Okay, we'll just reschedule the check-in and invite Harry, the head of customer service, just as a courtesy to these meetings." And I'm like, "No you don't." (laughs) "You never have before." And I'm really scared about it. So the way that the last round of the two previous layoffs went is basically, getting a meeting with your manager and someone from HR would be there. Lots of Kleenex, and then like you get laid off. So that's what this feels like, even though my job is actually not in customer service, technically, so they couldn't lay me off. And it's really early. And all these things. [00:02:17]
THERAPIST: Right. Yeah from your having not mentioned it's that nobody's been laid off yet.
CLIENT: No. And only two people have taken early retirement, and they were people who were already planning to retire. (pause) Yeah, I just, I don't know. I'm just really scared of going to the meeting. Just the whole thing. I feel bad because I... When I came in this morning I was sort of doing — I do walk in around the building and check in on things. And someone's like, "Oh, you (inaudible at v 00:03:06) for this. I talked to the head of customer service and he said he gave them to you a week ago and they should have already been out." Blah, blah, blah. I was like, "Yeah, I just haven't had a chance to put them out because I didn't think it was urgent and he told me to work on something else instead. But, you know. Sure." And then I was like, "Oh, I need more locks for security. Got to order to those. Blah, blah, blah." And then I got three e-mails coming from customer service like, "Why haven't you done this, why haven't you done that, why haven't you done this?" And I don't know. I don't know if he... It just feels like, it just feels really scary and I feel like he's telling me I'm just really bad at what I do. [00:04:00]
I'm worried that I'm going to go in and I'm either going to get yelled at, or lectured, or that something will happen to my job or something. Or that I'll go in and I'll (inaudible at 00:04:15) and then I'll be like, "That's crazy. Why are you being so weird about it?" And ... (pause). It's just not like a Monday conversation that I wanted to have. Especially because even though I was feeling really bad about not having picked up the equipment earlier, I was like, "Well okay I'm just going to do this and stop procrastinating. Just start working on it." And I feel like I'm trying to do that, hit me in the eye right now. Like they're not related. I feel like whatever they're picking up...
THERAPIST: I see. And then you got in trouble. [00:05:03]
CLIENT: Yeah. (long pause) I also wanted to... So the customer service department is getting centralized. Since I'm not in the customer service department I'm not getting centralized probably. Um, like (inaudible at 00:05:54) said to me, "Oh, it's really good that your job has bright technology in it because they're using the new technology. You'll probably be really safe. Special technology, that sounds like something that's definitely not getting cut." And I feel very ambivalent about that. I'm like, "Oh maybe, maybe not. Oh well." And now I just feel like, "Oh." Like the part of my job that seemed to make me the most safe, I don't know, I feel like... I'm worried that that's going to be taken away or that like, I don't know...
THERAPIST: So you're kind of vulnerable there? [00:06:35]
CLIENT: Yeah. (pause) I still don't know what's happening or what's going to happen. And so I just keep thinking about the worst thing that would happen. And also this morning there was like this freaking neighbor set off this flipping lighter that fucking about how with all the cuts and they've been outsourcing some things, and hiring students to do a few jobs that normally were done by full time employees, and now they're hiring temps. And people were talking about how when temps and students do the work, when they outsource it, it just isn't as good. And there are all these mistakes so you have to go in and correct them, or hope the mistakes aren't so severe that no one can ever find the book again. So like if there's typos in the title or the author, and it would be like you just can't find the book.
THERAPIST: Right. Right. [00:07:50]
CLIENT: And then another thing, we've been working on trying to find books about baseball. The problem we ran into is that the (inaudible at 00:07:55) weren't catalogued correctly so we can't find them. And so I'm like, "Well that's true, but I don't think that the library administration really cares." And just back and forth with the coworker about that. The students who are now responsible for being on that level, where the public computers are, if they see a computer problem they pretty much ignore it. Sometimes they turn off the monitor, or flip it backwards. But it's like pulling teeth to get any information out of them. And for a while they were kind of good and now they're just like, "Nah." Because there's no adults around ever where they are, so they just really like...
THERAPIST: They don't feel any accountability. [00:08:44]
CLIENT: Yeah. And they're only working now like two hours a week, every other week. Somehow like, "What do they have?" And it's really frustrating. And like Chet keeps on nagging me to use student workers, and I've been telling him I don't want to because I think it's a waste of time. And I'm just like, whenever I try to talk to him about the student workers not doing well, he gets super-defensive about it. I think because he actually hires them. So I don't know how to talk to him about it. (sighs) I still have a meeting tomorrow with... I'll be visiting with Chet and what I would like to do is not have weekly meetings for a while. And I think he's going to be very defensive and want to know why, and he thinks they're awesome. Or tell me that I should think more about what I want to put in my performance review, which is something that I really don't care about right now at all.
THERAPIST: Is it coming up? [00:10:09]
CLIENT: Not for a couple of months. Usually we do those in maybe like July. But Chet has this idea that I should think about what I should put in my performance review a month in advance. He did the same thing last year. So I guess he thought it was a good idea. (pause)
But yeah, these weekly meetings I just don't... I feel really like I'm (inaudible at 00:10:52) going to them. And I don't feel like I should propose the new. Like I don't feel it's going to get dialogue, or anything resembling that.
THERAPIST: I would imagine that you're ready to be talked to, but otherwise completely ignored?
CLIENT: Yeah. And also that hasn't been my experience usually with my customer service manager or supervisor. So I'm also really stressed about the idea that our check in may turn into some kind of... Usually it's just us chatting for a few minutes about whatever. And I don't want it to turn into, rain down what I didn't do that week. Or him telling me where I screwed up (inaudible at 00:12:02). I'm like; whatever. But I feel like that's... I just feel like this meeting is going to be telling me how I'm a crappy employee. [00:12:21] (long pause)
THERAPIST: My impression is that you feel in a position of having to take all the shit and all the responsibility at the same time. In that, as you have told me — and I could be wrong it could be otherwise — of course you have been as best as an employee for the last month or whatever. The surrounding culture is horrible right now. You're being treated really badly and ignored. There are really upsetting, disturbing, things that happened in various meetings as I understand. It's super-hard to be motivated and care because, like, as a result of the things that have happened... So you have to take all of that. There's nothing you can do with it. There's no way to sort of push back or hold anybody else responsible, I don't think, for anything in a way that feels at all remotely effective or helpful. But you're still supposed to be entirely responsible for your performance, and entirely probably (inaudible at 00:15:10) more of the people who are treating you this way.
CLIENT: Yeah. [00:15:22]
THERAPIST: Sounds kind of impossible.
CLIENT: No, it does. It is. And when I brought this up before, I had brought it up with Chet. So I had just come up with Harry and Karl in customer service in the library, they just say like, "Well you have to." So Chet he's been saying, "Well we can't just not do our jobs. You have to just keep on working, and you have to stay positive because maybe the 50<sup>th</sup> time you suggest something it will actually happen." [00:16:01]
THERAPIST: Right.
CLIENT: And Karl and Harry... Like Karl is having to do more with less, constantly. And then Harry in customer service also will have to do more with less, and work really hard and we can't let our worries about our jobs affect how we work with people. And... (sighs). Especially when I ask for like, "Well I don't think I can do that. I could use some extra help." Whatever. The response is that I'm asking for something really unreasonable, and then feeling really crazy for saying that I need some help. And not getting any really. In customer service, sometimes Harry will say, "Do you need help?" But, a) everyone is overworked and b) when I ask for help I often don't get it, or I'll get like...I'll call somebody and I'm like, "I'm not sure what to do with this, what do you think?" And they'll be like, "I don't know." So... (sighs) And I don't want to complain to Harry and say, "You're people aren't helping me enough." It feels like everyone's really busy, everyone's really stressed. But on the other hand, I really don't know what's wrong and I can't fix it. And he just, I mean Harry never listens to what anyone has to say, and I often I'll just ignore him. When we have these long staff meetings I'll just ignore him, but it's really hard to ignore him right now because he's on my ass about me not doing things. And I don't know, it's probably just like weird micromanaging. Like, why is he looking through our ticketing system to see what I haven't done. I don't know if he's looking at everyone or just me, but I'm like, "You know everyone's short staffed. You told me to reprioritize everything for the stupid large general project. So yeah I didn't fix that because you told me to not. So I did what you wanted me to do, why are you mad at me about it?" [00:19:03]
And he doesn't... He doesn't give any sort of answer, basically. His answer is, "You should work harder and ask for help if you need it."
I think one of the most frustrating things is that none of the management that I have will acknowledge that it's really hard to work when everyone's stressed out. Everyone is really stressed out. Everyone is really upset. And the management is like, "No. That shouldn't affect you at all." Or they just feel there's something wrong with you feeling that, like I do. And it's so obviously wrong, of course it's going to affect everyone, but then I don't really know where to go from here. I still want some help but you're not interested in that and I don't know what to do. I don't feel supported and I don't — I just don't know what to do with it. I mean that's what I think about all the time, like "Who could I talk to, what could I do. Is this not the way to do this? Should I talk to someone else?" And I don't think there is. [00:20:36] (long pause)
THERAPIST: Yeah. I guess you keep getting that what you feel or what you need are totally inconsequential.
CLIENT: Yeah. Well not that it's inconsequential, that I guess shouldn't... It's sort of like I feel like I shouldn't have needs. Like there's something wrong with me with wanting help or support or the things that would make it work. (sigh) And yeah, people are really... My coworkers will, like everyone's complaining about how it's really sucky, but people aren't really talking about being really stressed or having a hard time doing their work, or things like that. So I worry that maybe... I'm worried a little bit that I'm overreacting or I'm letting this affect me more than other people, and that could end up being negative. (long pause) [00:22:50]
THERAPIST: How are you concerned it's affecting you more? I have some sense from how you'd been talking but I wondered how your thoughts...
CLIENT: I'm concerned that I am having a harder time doing my daily work than other people are, and that while probably a lot of people have (inaudible at 00:25:12), mine has (inaudible at 00:25:12) more. I am also worried about me not having projects done, like just taking a long time to work out things and then feeling like it's sort of hanging over my head. And the other thing is that there's a part of me worrying that this is affecting me more than other people. Are they also worried? Am I more unstable, mentally, than other people? Are other people just more equipped to handle the stress, or not? [00:26:06] (long pause)
THERAPIST: I think you go pretty quickly from the possibility that, I really .... The possibility that you're more upset than most people to; you're unstable, other people are better equipped, you're more affected like in your functioning. (pause) If you're more upset, the main thing isn't necessarily even the upset, it's like how that reflects on you and how it affects your functioning. You know?
CLIENT: Yeah. I mean, not (inaudible at 00:27:59) this is also an (inaudible at 00:28:00).
THERAPIST: What? In his?
CLIENT: (sighs) This will take 10 years to explain. She was telling me that she'd get a lower science degree. And (inaudible at 00:28:17) fixated on that. And one of the things that she then said a little bit later was that she felt like I wasn't really, that I was like drifting from job to job and I didn't have a career plan or an end goal or like to have a degree or whatever. And that she felt that... Well one thing she felt that I wasn't taking it seriously being bipoloar and that ...
THERAPIST: (chuckling) I certainly hope you weren't taking it seriously being bipolar considering you're not bipolar. I see people who are who see nothing wrong in it, obviously, but yeah.
CLIENT: Yeah. And I wasn't taking enough medication, or the wrong kind. Because again I'm not seeing myself as being bipolar.
THERAPIST: Right.
CLIENT: And she was (inaudible at 00:29:22) saying that I was not succeeding in my workplace because I'm not mentally well and that this is preventing from being a success, in whatever way that she means. And I think part of that is definitely that I don't have a — I don't have a degree past my bachelors. [00:30:05]
But also that I changed jobs like a couple of times. And I've changed like from secretarial work to customer service work, back to secretarial work, to customer service work. She's very concerned that I don't have a hard and focused career plan. And basically like most of it, I believed this argument I was like maybe that was like, "Well I am, I don't want to have my life wrapped up in my job. I don't want to work 60 hours a week or 80 hours a week. I want to leave my job at work at the end of the day, I don't want to hear about it. And I'm totally okay having like a pointless job. Well not a pointless job, but a non-career path job if that means that I get to leave my job at work." [00:31:05]
THERAPIST: Yeah. I actually don't have the impression that you think your job is pointless. There are some things about it I know you don't like, and there's a lot of the culture and the way you're treated that you don't like, but I've never heard you say that like, "Ugh, universities aren't that important." Or, "customer service in universities is really going nowhere." Or...
CLIENT: Yeah. I'm like, it's a job that I do. And I don't feel — I mean it's not like something I'm not passionate about but I'm not like, "Whoa." And when I've done secretarial work for faculty members I'm just kind of like,...Did secretarial work for faculty members. It's neither a thrill a minute nor is it useless, it's just a thing that has to get done and I'm just going to go do it. Yeah it's really a part of this jobs is going to be like data entry, and I don't want to do it because I get really bored.
THERAPIST: Right. Or even more technical jobs which might not be that boring, but you don't like it. [00:32:09]
CLIENT: Yeah. Like I have zero interest in programming, or (inaudible at 00:32:15) or any of the things that would drastically increase my salary. And so I feel like... And when I was (inaudible at 00:32:28) idea in my 20's, part of it was I knew people, I had friends who were older than me who were like, 'Yeah I just have some job that I do and I leave it at the end of the day and then I do the things I actually like." One of the people that I worked with in college, who still works for Cambridge, the job there is 9 to 5. And then he has this kind of crazy life that he also does. He was a socialist for a while. He smuggled some art out of Vietnam during the height of communism, because they were being brandied as American communists. And he went to Korea. He had a kid, possibly with someone who was in Sweden and possibly had a three-way marriage, it's a little unclear. And I'm just like, "That's counts as a good use of your life." (chuckles) It sounds like he wasn't really gunning for any particular career advancement. It was kind of like, when you made that trip to Sweden, you have made that vacation time worth it.
And so I figured that, "Yep. That's what I want to do." And some my friends who actually make and keep money, from the dot com bust, boom and bust. Sometimes, it doesn't stress me out exactly, but I feel like, "Hm, it would be nice to have a really sweet house. Or pretty vacations." But I guess so I'm not interested in the things that, the jobs that they took to get that. I don't want to be a lawyer. I don't want to be a copy write lawyer. I don't want to be on call all day. But I don't know, my mom's concern about me having a job and settling in a career, a lot of it is caught up in that, "I should be more successful than I am." That when she was my age she was married and they had a house and she had two kids. (pause)
THERAPIST: I guess to me it seems there are multiple layers of this. One is what you just described where she has this idea that you should have, you know, whatever type of career path and should have down more by now, whatever. And is worried at this point or wherever she is about that. That's bad in a way, but that's one thing. It seems to me that another layer where this runs as kind of intrusive to where — that's not intrusive enough, don't get me wrong. But to where it's like, and if you don't it's a sign that there's something that's really wrong with your mind which you're also in denial of, or if you have feelings about this or feelings about her feeling that way about you those are also signs of severe psychology and denial of it.
That's not a usual twist on parental worry and disappointment. Do you know what I mean? I think parental worrying is a problem in every child, but it seems to me both intrusive and kind of pretty unusual to go to the level of, "...and because you're not living your life the way I think you should, you're in denial of your major mental illness. Which nobody but me thinks you have. And feelings you have, or when you're upset, it's a sign of how totally screwed up you are." (pause)
I don't know. I guess it does seem like a really big problem, and I would imagine one that colors your experience of what's happening at work, which is bad enough on its own. I'm not trying to say it isn't. And the impression that you're going to care about a reprimand today isn't really entirely about getting fired. Some amount of that terror has to do with a similar kind of capriciousness, of lack of appreciation for what's actually going on with you, or sort of sense of vulnerability in the hands of the people in authority. They deal with her. Does that make sense?
CLIENT: Yeah. [00:39:01]
THERAPIST: In other words it's not... Again, the story is playing out at home but it sort of gets like reprimand you a little bit and you're like, "Okay. Yeah. It's being really tough and (inaudible at 00:39:12), but you're right I'll try to keep at it and try to do better." Well I don't know what you'd say, but something. And it would be bad, but not terrifying. But it sounds like there's some aspect of, some sort of terror in it, like they're going to really deride you. Not listen to anything you have to say about it, which may be true given your previous experience at work. But I don't know, I guess I just have a sense that some of that terror is not just... Particularly the customer service people, about what happened with them. You know?
CLIENT: Yeah. And part of what I fear is going to happen and I'll be like, "No, you know you haven't been working really hard." :Yes it's true I haven't. I've been really stressed and worried about the thing." And that they're going to basically say, "Wow that's really crazy. You shouldn't be that stressed and worried. What's wrong with you that you're so stressed out?" [00:40:16]
THERAPIST: I see. (long pause) And I guess if that were true, it would seem to be much more related to the kind of things your mother has done to you than the things she said she's worried about, about you. No I think you'd probably experienced it the other way around.
CLIENT: Yeah. It feels like I'm worried that they're going to say something that bad, that would be the confirmation that my mom was totally right.
THERAPIST: Rather than, it seems to me more like, it's a confirmation that you grew up with your mom who would do well-intentioned, but really intrusive and horrible things. Like telling you, you have a major mental illness and you're just in denial of it, despite the fact that nobody else has ever really thought so. (pause)
CLIENT: Yeah. I mean, it's also... The other thing about my mom and me being bipolar is that my brother and my dad don't really seem to get why I find it so frustrating and upsetting. And my dad usually just doesn't say anything about that. And my brother is like, "Well but you know she's just worried." I'm like, "Mm." [00:42:17]
THERAPIST: Maybe I'm wrong, but I guess I always thought that it's not such a nice place to seeing, but relates to claims she feels she has over your entire emotional life. That when you say whatever you say about whatever you say about, and she totally discounts it and does whatever she's going to do to you anyway, there's a... Yeah, go ahead.
CLIENT: No, it's probably — like say probably over the last couple of years that I tried talking to my brother about my mom's insistence that I'm bipolar. And part of it was my mom was like, "Well everyone agrees that you're totally bipolar." And that was really weird. It just felt really weird. And at first I was like paranoid that my mom was discussing me being bipolar with everyone. And then I thought, "Well she probably just means my family." And I was trying to talk about it with my brother and it was just (sighs)... I was upset and freaked out, but he was just sort of like, "Well you know she's just worried." But it's not like she's telling me, "I'm worried you have a cold. Or is nagging me about putting on a sweater. This is really different." And it really didn't go anywhere, but it was odd because I could see those conversations were... At the end of it was my brother was like, "I don't think you're bipolar. And mom's already discussed that with me." I was like, "Okay well I guess that's good to know." [00:44:07]
THERAPIST: Probably another thing that was unaddressed was how upsetting it was, and where they were saying that she was talking to Alan about this.
CLIENT: Yeah. And that she really wants to call my psychiatrist and tell them that I'm totally bipolar. And then she later she (inaudible at 00:44:33) that statement. And it just seems so rational to my mom, and that I'm so crazy for not wanting her to.
THERAPIST: You know my impression is that for her it's like the sky is blue.
CLIENT: Yeah. Or like it's like coloring (inaudible at 00:44:52) did you know that Karen has a family history of heart disease, or something. I'm said, "No. That's not her." And yeah, so it's just, it becomes very hard to be talked about. And I don't know what I should do, because my father has pretty much never done talk therapy and my brother doesn't really. He has a little bit.
So, and they really don't talk about their emotions a lot. (laughter)
THERAPIST: My, like, a very tentative hunch from this distance is that you are more emotional and expressive in certain ways than your father and brother, who don't sound especially expressive. I'm not saying I think on the spectrum of people in general you're like all over the place in how you feel, but my very tentative impression is that your mother is terrified of your having feelings about things. [00:46:24]
CLIENT: She's definitely very opposed to it. Like, she doesn't like it.
THERAPIST: We should stop for now.
END TRANSCRIPT
