Transcript of Audio File:
______________________________________________________________________________
BEGIN TRANSCRIPT:
CLIENT: (00:02:03) Hello.
THERAPIST: Hi, come on in. How are you?
CLIENT: Good, thank you. Um, so yesterday – because I wanted to talk about this – um, I don't know – I thought about what this man was saying, and keep thinking of their family and worrying about not being considered separate. Um, I'm not (a fan lose) (ph) having a hard time separating ourselves from them. Now, I thought I'd keeping saying I'm not the family, you know, has to be part of the – I'm not going to say it out loud – but my actions look (inaudible at 00:03:12) kind of stuck with that.
THERAPIST: Mm-hmm.
CLIENT: And then I was just thinking about, like, we talked about (extra) (ph) kind of things, and he (inaudible at 00:03:20) being charged did not – being separately, and I (inaudible at 00:03:27) and I don't know what to do about it.
THERAPIST: Mm.
CLIENT: And, like, there's no, like (inaudible at 00:03:38) comment about it before. And it is like, most of the times, I've wanted to bring it up, and I get like some sort of – like a confirmation, or, like, we talk through, I feel better like the (sickest) (ph), but I still feel like, "Yeah, you say that it is fine, but once you see them," [chuckles] "once you have to deal with them, like, it won't be." It is almost that I can't fool you.
THERAPIST: Mm-hmm.
CLIENT: (inaudible at 00:04:08) (Poor kid) (ph) (inaudible at 00:04:14) It was really hard (when I had to walk) (ph) yesterday, (inaudible at 00:04:26). Any, like, tips on helping me cope? [chuckles, whimpers]
THERAPIST: Mm, cope with your feelings?
CLIENT: Yeah, or with the whole situation. I guess there's no, like – shouldn't plan, but – I don't know – I get in these, like, situations, and it is like I just – having a way of losing them. It is like this one – like, it just kind of gives me, like – it is not such anxiety, but it is almost like (inaudible at 00:05:06) is kind of a strong word to us, but it can feel like that at times.
I don't know. I feel like I get so caught up in, like, worrying about what the outcome may be, but it is like the one overruling, like, kind of situation (altimeter) (ph), but...
But – so even, like, sometimes, like when I think about (inaudible at 00:05:35), I'll just get a, "Well, he won't want to be involved with this long-term," so it is kind of just a matter of time before things end between us...
THERAPIST: Mm.
CLIENT: ...Which I think is ridiculous to say that, but then the default (type of – that whole thinking) (ph)...
THERAPIST: [Sneezes] Excuse me.
CLIENT: Bless you. And, yeah...
THERAPIST: [Sneezes] Excuse me.
CLIENT: Bless you. [Chuckles] So, anyway, I feel like it – is another thing to always be thinking that or feeling like that, and I really never know what to do.
(Like back towards the) (ph) – a lot of times, like when I say things out loud, I'm kind of, like, rationalizing with myself a little bit. But I feel like this one is, like – like worse, that, like, I hop on and I – like I really believe to be true, and yeah...
THERAPIST: Well, (inaudible at 00:06:48) but what's true about it? [Blows nose]
CLIENT: That they're – I don't know – it is like the – well, it feels but then I'm judged because of them, but I feel like I – I almost, like, really believe that. Like, I feel like other times, like, "Oh," I'll think that I feel a certain way, but I actually feel another way. I feel like this, like I can't even, like, pull myself out of it. It seems like I'm stuck on the fence sometimes.
THERAPIST: Mm. But, so, like, they are who you are.
CLIENT: Kind of.
THERAPIST: And you are who they are.
CLIENT: Right. (inaudible at 00:07:46) to tell the truth, I don't know; it is just the way I was brought up, and that it is just, like, embedded in me, but I just keep thinking, like, my parents were always, like, you know, if you kind of are who you are from, like, your family, and they're, like, made you, and – I mean, I can't really think of, like, quotes like – like my dad lived – when my parents were getting divorced, like, "Oh, she ended up just like her mother," like, "Oh, she (should have been) (ph) better. Look what kind of family she came from." I don't' know, like, my mom (assisting) (ph) with that, so I don't – I feel like – but I feel like other families do think like that, too, so that's why I feel – I don't know, so, cautious of people, like wary of being judged.
THERAPIST: So in this case, it feels like more about what other people might think than (inaudible 00:08:48) having to see yourself? [Clears throat]
CLIENT: Yeah, I guess so – because I don't – I don't think that I see myself like that. I know that I worry about being seen like that, but, like, when I look at them and myself, and – definitely feel like I'm like two completely different types of people, but – I don't know – I just feel like this fear of people just associating me without types of people that they are.
THERAPIST: Mm-hmm.
CLIENT: But that sounds, like, ridiculous then – I don't know – right? – I'm (not) (ph) (inaudible at 00:09:38), but I still feel worried to be, like, judged. So...
But then there's like the pity aspect, too. Like I feel like, before my parents got divorced, like people kind of, like, "Oh, poor (Ellen and Jason) (ph) – (Jason) (ph) and I," like, "such bad would happen to mom. She comes from a nice family, but" – and then so – I don't know. And that's something else I heard constantly growing up, so I feel like I never want to be the one who people may say, like, "Oh, poor Ellen. She was the only normal one that turned out." It has really creeped a lot of – or I perceive (that way) (ph) – negative tension.
THERAPIST: Mm, for you or for your family? [Clears throat] Because the idea that you're the only one who came out normal is not necessarily negative tension to you.
CLIENT: Yeah, but, like, when I'm feeling that I'm the (soo) (ph). I don't know, it is just that I feel like this embarrassment, and then I feel really bad things after, and I'm, like – today, like – well, not (trouble with friends) (ph) (inaudible at 00:11:01) family, but my parents are, like, my family; I shouldn't be embarrassed of them, but I don't know how I feel sometimes.
THERAPIST: Mm-hmm.
CLIENT: It is sort of like – well, some may – maybe take it as, like, a compliment? I don't know. I just feel – I would feel weird if that was said.
THERAPIST: Mm-hmm.
CLIENT: I never know what to do with those feelings. Like, it is not a matter of...
THERAPIST: Right.
CLIENT: ...Maybe – may be upset with someone and talking to them about it. I get – I don't know – kind of my own issues and fears, and I don't know how to handle that.
THERAPIST: Well, what do you have in mind about handling them, (quite frankly) (ph)? What do you think should happen with them?
CLIENT: [Clears throat] I don't know, maybe having some sort of, like, a recognition. That is probably not true, or – I don't know. It is like I'm, like, hoping for some, like, confirmation that [chuckles] that it won't be true, but I don't think that that's going to happen. But just some sort of – I don't know – like, kind of like "this is the way that it is." And if that happens to happen, unfortunately, we'll find a way to deal with it, but you can't worry about it. [Pauses] So, yeah, I don't know.
And, yeah, as you said, that's what it is like. I struggle with mostly, like, with that (crisis lights) (ph). Yeah, so, like, a lot about (inaudible at 00:13:17) like, I feel like kind of angry or annoyed, and, deep down, I feel a little sad that this is just, at the most, out of my control with this, or it feels that way.
THERAPIST: Mm.
CLIENT: And I just always have a feeling, like, selfish and – I don't know.
THERAPIST: Selfish for...?
CLIENT: Feeling those feelings.
THERAPIST: Mm.
CLIENT: So – because I feel like I don't let my dad – whatever – I don't know – feel embarrassed for me, or – I don't know – I just thought you shouldn't feel those things, and I do. So, yeah...
I don't know. I just – I feel so different from them. I want different things that – I don't know – I feel like we just never (jibe off) (ph). And – I don't know – I have the – the differences that they – the differences that we have are things like I really, really dislike in people and usually don't – I sort of see myself in people like that. And then I feel like I'm related to these types of behaviors, and – I don't know – I perceive them in, like, very negative behaviors, and – I don't know – like lying and manipulation, and crudeness. I feel like I'm not going to want my parents to be my best friends, but I feel like there are not any characteristics that I would ever choose to have, like, in a friend or more in a relationship, or any direction with people that I have (seriously) (ph) bare, minimal fractions. And it is just like they're just not peaceful qualities and – I don't know. I don't know if that's why I find them so, like, embarrassing or...
And then I say this, I feel bad because I've said that (I have maintenance). It is not like they're monsters, you know. You know, things aren't that bad. Well, they can be at times, but...
THERAPIST: Mm-hmm.
CLIENT: [Clears throat] I just feel kind of guilty about how I'm feeling towards them, and I don't know. Because I don't think I want to change how I've felt towards them, but I don't – I never know, like, what to do or feel.
THERAPIST: Mm, yeah. Do you have to do anything with them?
CLIENT: I would like to not feel guilty. I feel like the way that I feel about this – I don't want to feel like this forever, and I don't know how...
THERAPIST: So it is not the feelings themselves, necessarily, but how you feel about the feelings.
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: Mm-hmm. I mean, the way you do feel is not how you should feel [clears throat] and that's where the guilt comes from.
CLIENT: Yeah, I think so.
THERAPIST: Do you feel you owe it to your family not to feel like this toward them?
CLIENT: Kind of. I mean, I heard it is the (way they raise wolves) (ph). Especially, my dad was just like, "I gave you everything growing up, and therefore you pretty much owe me everything now," and I don't necessarily feel that way. And so I feel like it is always something that I am struggling with.
Even with my brother, I talk about it, and he's like – because he's alone, so – and these are things that are probably going to happen in years down the road, but, like, "If he's sick, who is going to take care of him?" And I'm – I always have the feeling like I don't really want to do any of those things.
I mean, I want to help, but then I feel like annoyed because he doesn't want to prepare for certain things that are happening, and so – yet, like, a lot of the guilt comes from me not wanting to do things, and then feeling like I should because I should want to and because I'm partly would owe it to them.
And then I just – I don't know – when I think about it sometimes, I'm just, like, well, I know they gave me certain sacrifices, but I don't – I just think they're really – like, with my dad, I feel he causes, like, a ton of tension because he doesn't want to do anything to help, like, himself prepare for his future. And then, if you don't want to do that, that's fine, but it is expected that I'm going to help take care or take the financial burden of that, and I don't think it is fair that you don't really plan and expect someone to deal with the mess of it. So then he is, like, when we talk about things like, "Well, you should take care of me anyways. I'm your father; I raised you." And I feel like part of that's true but then part of it is being more responsible. It is actually like I have these, like – kind of like – I feel like I have these obligations, but I said that they don't have the same ones, and I then I end up feeling like, "Should I be the big person and just do it, you know, when the time comes?" And...
THERAPIST: Well, it also seems like their expectations are inevitably your obligations, that they could expect things that you might not necessarily provide.
CLIENT: Right, and I (don't like) to get guilted with my dad when he's angry about his (park place) (ph), like, "I know you're going to stick us in a nursing home," and, "I never would have done that to my family," blah, blah, blah, blah, blah. But if I have him (inaudible at 00:20:16), maybe he will end up in a nursing home, like, "I don't know if I can take care of you. I really don't' want to take care of you. [Chuckles] I will help you and do things like that, but I don't think that (it should permanently) fall on the kid." And then I feel horrible saying that because I feel like other people would do it, like – you know, (look good on it) (ph).
THERAPIST: Mm-hmm.
CLIENT: So – but then I look – sometimes, I look back at things he's done, and I'm just like, well, I think we talked about this when we first started meeting, like, "If you had taken certain steps to prepare yourself, then" – I don't know – "maybe you would be able to afford a better type of care or nurse." If he isn't worried about himself, then I'm the one who ends up feeling that I have to deal with it because my brother certainly isn't going to help. So...
Yeah, ‘cause I just thought they (shared this) (ph), but there is, like, resentment, and I feel really guilty about it, and I just, you know, feeling like maybe if (instead) (ph) about harping on what may happen 10 or 20 years down the road, you know, it is like all of his energy's wasted thinking about possible outcomes of certain situations.
THERAPIST: Like what? [clears throat]
CLIENT: Like what's going to happen if he gets sick, what's going to – like, we had a talk a couple months ago about, like, if he has Disability, and he said, "No," and I told him that it probably would be wise that we would get it because he's self-employed, and if he ever got sick, then he has to shut business down and then he has no income. And then he was just like, "Well, I'll worry about that when the time comes." (inaudible at 00:22:26) can worry about when the time comes. And it is just the situation is, like, (back-faced) (ph). What happens if he gets sick? He is he going to – how's he going to have income? How's he going to pay for his bills? How's he going to do any of that stuff?
THERAPIST: Do you talk to him as if he'll listen to you?
CLIENT: I don't know. But then I feel like I get angry because I know that it is going to be me dealing with it, and then – actually, that's (not a really) good motivation to try things and want to do something. But...
THERAPIST: Well, I guess one thing we could think about is why you talk to him as if he would listen to you.
CLIENT: It is like I don't know what else to do.
THERAPIST: Mm.
CLIENT: Or I'm really – I bet this makes me sound like all I care about is money, but I just think it is really unfair to never take care of yourself and then expect other people to take care of you. And I feel like I'm selfishly, like, harping on him so I don't have to do something.
THERAPIST: Mm, right, I guess it is – I'm wondering why your harping on has any – how that's related to you not having to do anything. Like, what is the harping doing?
CLIENT: I'm hoping [chuckles] that he'll – I guess I'm hoping that he'll want – like, accept one of my ideas and be a little more responsible.
THERAPIST: Has that worked before?
CLIENT: No. So...
THERAPIST: So what do you think keeps, you know, sort of bringing you back to doing that?
CLIENT: I – well, I guess hope that he'll – I feel like – I don't know – hope that he may, hope that he'll get some priorities in order in that respect, just a little bit. I feel like he just doesn't realize, like, the severity of his not doing certain things, and I'm hoping that he'll get it and see the benefit. I don't know. [Pauses] Yeah.
And I used to have such a – memories, and why I had such a hard time with it. It is like he has always lived, "You need to be so self-sufficient," like, "You can't depend on anyone," like, "You have to do this." And then I felt like he would do things growing up, like say he was going to give me something and then take it away.
And I know, like, many times, I would be, like, left in a position where I was kind of, like, waiting on him or hoping. Like, when I moved away to school, we had, like, talks about, like, my allowance and how much money I was going to get, and then he would pay my car payment for me while I was away at school, and that was, like, (entering a agreement) (ph) that we had worked out.
And then I remember the day I moved to school, he was, like, leaving with my mom and was, like, "So what are going to do about money?" And I was, like, "Well, I thought we had discussed that you would be giving me, like, $200 a month, and I would come home and work every so often." He was, like, "No." So I'm, like, left at school, being like, "There is this plan that I had, and you just kind of, like, ‘No'."
Or, like, there have been times where I've been told, like, I was going to get a raise, and made decisions based off of that, and then has just changed his mind.
So – and I feel like there are some benefits to that. It made me plan for the worst, and adapt to certain financial situations and things like that. But then I feel like, "You give all these things to me, and then you want me to help you out or –" I don't know. I just feel like there is this irresponsible – everyone has to cater to him. There're no consequences. I don't know.
THERAPIST: Well, it sounds like you don't always only feel that way if that's the way it is.
CLIENT: Right. [Pauses] And so I – I guess I just feel, like, always torn, like be the bigger person and help, but you're not really wanted to help. And then – or just don't help, and then I feel really guilty and feel like I've (told him) (ph), like, it is not the right decision.
And it is, like, you know, my mom is, like, "Why"-ing and whatever. I'm like, "Who the heck wants to help someone like that?"
But then I get so upset, like, when we talk about these things because they're things, like, I just never share with anyone because I find them to be so – I don't know – like, ridiculous. I feel like who – I don't know – like, what parent does that to their kid or whatever? So, like, even with (inaudible at 00:28:24) is like, "Well, it can't be that bad." I'm like, "Well, I don't really want to tell you how – that nasty, but, look, I have my reasons for not liking them at times or not" – I'm feeling the way – like, could you imagine just feeling so – I don't know – bad about it, but, like, I never want to discuss it.
So, yeah, I just – look, I always – I don't know – I have this burden of, like, worrying about, you know, (child's) (ph) father and then my mom just being stuck with her family and associated with them. And then, like, when you put the two of them together, it is just – I don't know – it is like, "Where the heck did I come from?"
THERAPIST: Do you feel sort of alienated from them?
CLIENT: Kind of.
THERAPIST: Maybe isolated?
CLIENT: A little, but I feel like I almost make myself isolated because I don't like being associated with those behaviors. I don't – I don't know – just don't enjoy – I almost feel - (I enjoy) (ph) being around them, but I don't consider myself with them, and I feel like we don't really have anything in common. And then I just don't like – I know I fight with my dad, with this whole, like, store and (inaudible at 00:30:27) about the taxes and stuff, like I just – I feel like I don't want to be a part of that.
And then I feel like that alienates me a lot from him, and then – because he can't separate himself from his store. I feel like I just can't – I feel like I separate, like, myself from my mom's family, and then he has my mom. I feel like I do almost isolate myself because I don't want to be associated with the (creepy hatefulness) (ph) of them.
THERAPIST: Mm, but there's a very strong tie. Like, the isolation is the only thing that you know how to do to be separate from them because of their lives. There's just this really strong tie.
CLIENT: Yeah. I don't know why. I don't know. I guess I – the way I feel when I'm around them is like – like I can be like them, and there is something wrong – not that there's something wrong, but, like, I'm the incorrect way to do something, or it should be like them, so I feel like I – I don't know – I don't see it as the optimal way [chuckles] of living life. So, then, I am almost not rebelling, but I'm, like, "OK, well, if you think that's the right way, then you really don't want to be associated with that," and I – (we're there drift) (ph).
And just like with, like – I don't know – the crude behaviors at Christmas dinner, I feel like that just – it is like no other person that I – maybe not that I know but that I socialize with would ever behave like that, and so I just find it really offensive and strange that they think that that's OK. And then I feel like I just – well, you know, I don't want to be around them and just push more, like...
THERAPIST: [Clears throat]
CLIENT: But, like, if I – I don't know – part of the isolation is me, and I then it is like part of it is, like, not so much mom but my dad, like if he doesn't get what he wants, or if he happens to feel, like – when he was upset with me about his birthday thing, like, he just pushes away, too. So it is like, if you're not the person that he wants you to be, then he doesn't want to speak to you. And then I feel like – kind of like that in a little bit, and then that kind of wants me to.
THERAPIST: Mm, so that, in your act of separating from them, somehow, you end up being like them anyway.
CLIENT: (I don't know) (ph). And when I said our family is so – I don't know – I feel like – like, a couple of weeks ago, we talked about, like, what would, like, being at peace of, like, coming to grips with the issue mean, and then I feel like – for me, right now – like I feel like that is possibly, like, total separation. And then I feel like – I don't know – I just feel like for generations in the family, on both sides, people ended up acting like that. And I have always thought it was strange that the outcome is always like you talk and you don't, and you're best friends or you're not. I don't know – I feel like I'm trying to, like, prevent that from happening, and – I don't know – I feel like I'm just feeding into, like, another generation of that happening and...
But I guess it is – means I still think all the time, like what people (just only) (ph) my family come from. And it is like I am trying to mend it, for lack of a better term, somewhat. (Distant) (ph) – I feel like it works, and I'm happy with it, or...
THERAPIST: And how does what your family is like reflect on you? How does that work?
CLIENT: It is like people will – it is like people will see how they are, and then they just, like, associate me from coming from some family that, like, breeds, like, no morals, or I have no class, or – you know – (again) (ph) it was just like the most far-removed one, and they feel that, like, they're divorced, so, therefore, like, they don't – you know, you just feel like you could easily give up on marriage. And there are, like, all these things that I feel like my parents wouldn't say but that I would hear growing up. But I feel like a lot of families do still think about it.
Like, you know, one of the first questions, if we tell somebody we meet someone, it is like, "Do they come from a good family?" "Oh, yeah, that's wonderful."
THERAPIST: Mm-hmm.
CLIENT: So...
THERAPIST: So you're associating with them simply because their values will impact yours, like your environ – it sort of (spaced) (ph) your environment that wasn't a (clinical) (ph) good one?
CLIENT: Yeah, at least that's how I feel.
THERAPIST: OK.
CLIENT: So – yeah, so I don't know if I – I mean, I feel just so (flipping) (ph) ashamed by the way they act. Or, I mean, you knew the outcome would be like, "Gee, she's nice. Where the heck did she come from?" Like you said. But I just – I don't know.
THERAPIST: Well, maybe even the thought that someone would say, "Where the heck did she come from" is kind of unsettling. Like you want to come from somewhere.
CLIENT: Yeah, but I feel like any person that matches up with me, that would be their automatic thought. Like – I don't know – I just feel like – sometimes, I feel like I'm almost, like, making it a big deal of it. But then I think of, like an outsider, like if you take someone home [chuckles] for Christmas, and you're at the Christmas table, and they're talking about, like, weird racial things or talking about gay people, they're like swearing and saying, like, vulgar words. And I'm just, like, look, if that was me, and – not really me – would be sitting there, like, horrified. And I feel like how could you not react like, "Oh." So, yeah...
And, I mean, at times, I feel like how can I – how can I not be judged in an environment like that? I mean, I know I'm not like that. I certainly don't speak like that, but...
THERAPIST: Well, and yet I know this isn't – these are not the only people in your family you have difficulty with, and yet they're your boyfriend – [chuckles] boyfriend's – that's an interesting subject – they're your mother's boyfriend's family.
CLIENT: Right, but I, for some reason, feel like they're – I don't feel any sort of, like, bond with them like in my family, but I feel like I'm – like I said yesterday, stuck with them like they're my family. Like spending - family interactions with my mom will be with that whole group for the duration of their relationship, so, like, there would never be a – oh, like a Christmas not with them because I'm spending it with my mom. So I feel like they...
THERAPIST: [Sneezes]
CLIENT: Bless you.
THERAPIST: Excuse me.
CLIENT: I feel like they kind of are, essentially. But, yeah...
And I – I don't know – I mean, I feel, with that, almost – it is really taking it in another (warble) (ph), but then I feel like that – I don't know – I feel like that speaks to her character. (Where it) (ph) all comes into thinking, like, "No, I feel like you kind of downgraded." But, you know, if he makes you happy, that's great, but I feel like an outsider [Interviewer blows nose] (inaudible at 00:41:04) I don't know – judge you on the type of person you pick for yourself.
THERAPIST: Well, you certainly don't feel it reflects well on her.
CLIENT: Right. But I don't know if that's why I feel, like, tied into them, because I feel like I may be judged on her, and then she makes a – I don't say a bad choice, but she – like she chooses to be a part of this craziness, and she likes it.
THERAPIST: Mm-hmm.
CLIENT: But I just feel like that's – that's not me, and I should probably not care.
THERAPIST: Except that you do.
CLIENT: Right. [Chuckles] I feel like why do I care so much? I feel like I keep saying it over and over, like, I guess to put it into perspective like a little bit, like they're not family. And I think I just realized that, since I feel judged so much, it is like I'm worried about people judging me from where I come from, and she just picked someone for herself that comes from a chaotic [chuckles] place. So I don't know if that's why I – that's kind of all tying together in why I stressed about them, because I feel like I'm connected to them like – to my mom and her decision, less than me worrying about whether it is my family but more like people hearing me like, "Her mom chose this for herself."
THERAPIST: And how is – how is your mother's choice related to you?
CLIENT: No, but I feel like...
THERAPIST: Well, it is on some level.
CLIENT: I feel – I don't know – like why would she pick someone with such crude values or – I don't know. I feel like the subject heals when I say it out loud, but those are, like, the things that I'm thinking, like, "Why would you choose to be with someone who is so crude." Well, he's not crude; it is his family, so maybe she is able to separate.
THERAPIST: Mm-hmm.
CLIENT: I don't know.
THERAPIST: Well, I think there is also a reluctance to get to know your mother as who she is because, if you allowed yourself to experience her more about who she is, you might have a sense of why she's with this man and with this man who has this sort of vulgar family. It is probably not random.
CLIENT: Mm-hmm.
THERAPIST: But since...
CLIENT: But I feel like she wants someone to take care of her, not in a monetary way, but I feel like – literally like a kid would be taken care of.
THERAPIST: Mm-hmm, it sounds like that's how she lives in the house.
CLIENT: And, I mean, I – my mom was (100-percent) (ph) positive, like, that's why she likes him, but she gets (that) (ph). I feel like, well, it is almost like a teenager, how they like a sleepover every night of the week.
THERAPIST: Mm-hmm.
CLIENT: And so, yeah, I get that. But...
THERAPIST: Mm, you know, we're going to need to stop for today.
CLIENT: Sure.
THERAPIST: So I'll see you next week.
CLIENT: Mm-hmm.
THERAPIST: Just to let you know, this is not until February, but the second full week in February, I'm going to be away that week...
CLIENT: OK.
THERAPIST: ...Which I think is the week of the thirteenth.
CLIENT: OK.
THERAPIST: OK?
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: So I'll be away.
CLIENT: Is that like a (grade) (ph) vacation week?
THERAPIST: I'm sorry, is that the...?
CLIENT: February fifteenth.
THERAPIST: For schools?
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: I think it might be, yeah. I don't know. It depends on the school.
CLIENT: Oh, (inaudible at 00:45:10)?
THERAPIST: Yeah, some schools (inaudible at 00:45:13).
CLIENT: All right. Thank you.
THERAPIST: OK.
CLIENT: See you next week.
THERAPIST: Bye. Take care.
END TRANSCRIPT
