TRANSCRIPT OF AUDIO FILE:
______________________________________________________________________________
<b>BEGIN TRANSCRIPT:</b>
[Beginning at 0:01:46]
THERAPIST: Hey.
CLIENT: (Clearing throat). Ah, oh! I'm really happy with the snow.
THERAPIST: Yeah?
CLIENT: I couldn't believe it, it didn't snow until this late but.
THERAPIST: And it is very late, except around, on Halloween, you remember? [00:02:01]
CLIENT: Yeah, I do remember (other chuckling). I was with the girls for the weekend; they were thrilled!
THERAPIST: It didn't snow [on top of any of that] (ph).
CLIENT: Yeah, (excited) but this is just so unu-, I mean it's been snowy in Massachusetts since Thanksgiving but down here!
THERAPIST: Uh-huh.
CLIENT: I've talked – California (speaking rapidly) had more snow than us, [overlapping voices]
THERAPIST: Oh.
CLIENT: ... which is unbelievable, but they completely checked out this city, which has always more actually. Oh, (breathless) I need a hi.
THERAPIST: Hi.
CLIENT: It's been a very long time.
THERAPIST: Yeah.
CLIENT: Or it feels like a very long time. Oh, so, um, I am on BCBS now.
THERAPIST: Okay.
CLIENT: I'm just waiting to get my card from them.
THERAPIST: That should be – you know what, if you want to, when you get the card,
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: ... just e-mail me all your card information, [overlapping voices]
CLIENT: Okay.
THERAPIST: ... including the phone number.
CLIENT: Okay.
THERAPIST: But that should be great. I mean normally they usually pay, and then we're doing a reduced fee, so [overlapping voices]
CLIENT: M-hmm.
THERAPIST: ... they usually pay like half mine for my full fee.
CLIENT: M-hmm.
THERAPIST: But at that point, we could just like do a small co-pay or something. [00:02:58]
CLIENT: Okay, okay, great. Um, yeah, we, we did it last week, so I think I should get, get it any day now.
THERAPIST: That's awesome.
CLIENT: Yeah, I was very [overlapping voices]
THERAPIST: That's really awesome.
CLIENT: ... excited. I was very relieved.
THERAPIST: Wow, that's great!
CLIENT: I know, and now [overlapping voices]
THERAPIST: And then you have insurance for other things, too.
CLIENT: I know. I'm gonna to go to the doctor! It's going to be glorious (chuckling) I think!
THERAPIST: It's going to be a spree?
CLIENT: Yeah, I know. Look it, [overlapping voices]
THERAPIST: Like a clothes spree.
CLIENT: ... it's like I'm gonna go to get glasses (other chuckling)! Ollie's actually very good because now we've got insurance, we got, um, [overlapping voices]
THERAPIST: He's a great glass place, by the way, not that I've heard.
CLIENT: Oh really?
THERAPIST: Yeah. We don't do cross advertising [overlapping voices]
CLIENT: Right (chuckling).
THERAPIST: ... for each other.
CLIENT: No, but I don't know where to go, so it's [overlapping voices]
THERAPIST: He's really, so he's right down the street on the [overlapping voices]
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: ... corner of Bishop Allen in [overlapping voices]
CLIENT: Oh!
THERAPIST: ... the Eye Clinic's Colleagues, what is it, Essential Eyes?
CLIENT: Yeah, Chris went there once before.
THERAPIST: Oh he's so nice.
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: He's really nice.
CLIENT: That's where I plan to [inaudible at 0:03:48] in October. I've had an astigmatism (ph), like diagnosed with stigmatism, since I was six, but when I was ten I grew out of my glasses (chuckling).
THERAPIST: Oh.
CLIENT: I haven't had glasses since.
THERAPIST: Really?
CLIENT: Yeah (laughing), it's really bad. [00:04:00]
THERAPIST: How did you see in school?
CLIENT: Um, (pause) I mean it's not that bad but it just gives me a headache when I read, so I just read (chuckling) a little bit; I just really didn't do much work, um, (pause) so that happened.
But and then we got, um, my grandmother – my family works in this really weird way, my grandmother gifts this money every year to my brothers and like all my cousins and I, and we had been hearing these, my brothers and I had been hearing, oh the money is going to go directly to us this year, instead of going to our dad because our dad just whatever with it and, um, and so we've been hearing about it.
And then Christmas rolled around and like we go through all Christmas day and she gave us our usual checks, for plane tickets to visit her in Georgia, um, but they were, the other checks weren't there, and so I had been expecting it and it put me in a bad mood that we didn't get it and I was grouchy. [00:04:58]
And, um, my brothers, who can just kind of go to that side of the family if they're ever really in a pinch, were like, "What, like what are you getting all worked up about? It's not that big a deal, we'll get it. Don't, like relax." And for me, I was all upset, thinking like, "You can just go to them if you need money, I can't!" I (pause) said, "Like it's not that easy for me."
Um, and so then my brothers were in Georgia visiting my gram-, grandmother and my dad last week, then they came back a couple of days ago and I called my younger brother, Fred, and I asked about the trip and "have you heard anything about the checks?" And he said, "Oh yeah, John hasn't talked to you?" I'm thinking "well now nobody talks to me (chuckling)", like nobody talks!
(Big breath) And so he said, "Yeah, well so maybe he gave the checks to Uncle Jimmy." Uncle Jimmy is my dad's brother, who's since taken control of the property and things that my dad was totally mismanaging. And, um, he said, "Yeah well, so Uncle Jimmy has all of our money." But I think, I think what's going to happen is we're just going to go to him if we need any and then he's going to dispense it to us. [00:06:04]
To me, that just seemed like "well like you're a 19-year-old kid", so I kind of get it, but I'm 25 and I'm married and like on my own (slight chuckle), and it feels so weird to be going to my uncle to ask for money. And, um, it's fine if that, but like nobody told me that (slight chuckle) until like my 19-year-old brother says like, "Oh yeah, I think this is what we're doing." Okay, but so no one was gonna call me to tell me, I was just supposed to assume I had a couple of extra thousand dollars? Do you know what I mean, like so weird.
And so I called my other brother later that night and just kind of like said the same, asked the same question, just seeing what he would say. And so it's like, "Hey did you hear anything about the money?" And he like, "Oh", he ought to play dumb, was like "I don't know. I think we might be getting that soon." And I like didn't know why he was kind of pulling my leg. [00:07:00]
And he asked about my finances and I said that we had nothing (chuckling). And so he's like "let me call Jimmy and I'll call you back". So he was kind of being weird about it. He likes to be in control a little bit. He likes to be the middleman. (Audible breath) And so yesterday I just called my uncle myself and got everything sorted out. And it felt like I just, like he is holding onto some money, in case we need to pay taxes on this property that we own, for a while.
Um, but it was frustrating because (pause) I had also written out how much it's gonna cost for Chris and I to move, 'cause we'll, we'll most likely be moving to either California or Concord like in June, and then it's gonna cost us about, I feel like 10,000 dollars or so, between getting a new apartment, moving our stuff, plane tickets, everything, just from what I can, and so [overlapping voices]
THERAPIST: It sounds like a lot. [00:08:00]
CLIENT: I really hate moving. I could give myself a big cushion (chuckling).
THERAPIST: It sounds like a really big cushion. I guess if you do like first, last [overlapping voices]
CLIENT: Well yeah, so that's included.
THERAPIST: ... and a month's rent, like I guess if you include that, that's a chunk of money.
CLIENT: That stuff's included.
THERAPIST: But still, like a thousand dollars for a moving company, I mean I would, yeah.
CLIENT: Well so that's includ- [overlapping voices]
THERAPIST: Like maybe if you're going to California but.
CLIENT: Well and that includes living expenses for the summer. Because he's going to need to study for the bar for the summer, so he's not going to be working until August or until September. So I'm also counting for us, like I don't know what my situ-, because I'm gonna to have to get there and then find work, and so I'm, I want to make sure that we're covered just in case neither of us has work until say August.
So I'm accounting for like 4 thousand dollars for us to just live on, in case like we don't get a job until he starts working. I get really nervous. I've moved back and forth across the country (chuckling) a few times and I've run out of money and it's awful (chuckling) like.
THERAPIST: So what do you do when that happens? [00:09:02]
CLIENT: I borrow it from either – last time I borrowed from Chris, um, 'cause we were just, we were long engaged or were just dating; and then the time before that I borrowed from my girlfriend, who I was living with; and the time before that I borrowed from my brother; most – and the time before that I borrowed from my brother (sniffing). Um, so (pause) I get really nervous.
THERAPIST: Uh-huh.
CLIENT: Um, but this is extra money that my uncle's holding to for tax purposes, so while that could be, that could just kind of alleviate my worries, not completely but, (pause) but he's the one you know, we're gonna figure out (pause) what needs to happen with taxes and everything.
Anyway, he was [one for open and honest with me that my dad] (ph), ever happened, and, and it was better than going to my brother, who acts like I'm a pain for asking questions (chuckling), um, so it felt much nicer and much like, (pause) you know not like I was a nuisance for wanting to be in the know about something that involves, really does involve me. [00:10:14]
I always felt like, before, when it was my brother or my dad, like "this doesn't concern you, like why are you even asking these questions, this isn't your business", um, but it is. Because I own you know part of the land and I, technically was my money that my grandmother gifted to me, so, (pause) and my uncle to really treat it that way, like (sniffing) you know "I'm gonna keep you informed with everything that's going on with the property and everything", you know and so that felt like I did have a right to know.
Even though I knew that all along, it felt really nice (sounding relieved) to not feel like a nuisance wanting to know about stuff that does involve me and you know my finances, (pause) and so, um, it was refreshing, where I was, you know Christmas was, is always hard with my grandmother, 'cause it's the one time a year I really usually see her and my dad. [00:11:13]
And so this year going into Christmas I had, I had called like beforehand, and I was like trying to kind of make it as easy as possible, and I'd planned this trip in March to go down to see her with Chris, which made her really happy when we saw her at Christmas; she was really happy and in a great mood.
And so we're going to see my uncle, my dad's brother, then, too, and his whole family. So he was, he's gonna explain some more stuff to me that's going on, (pause) which is just kind of a relief (relieved sigh), and I just feel like (pause) much calmer about all of it. Before it was just like (pause) a thing that like I shouldn't ask questions about because it was just like "why are you, why are you talking about it, this isn't your business, don't, don't you worry about this", (audible breath – pause) now it's, it doesn't really feel like that anymore, so it's kind of (pause) a little bit easier. [00:12:04]
THERAPIST: Oh?
CLIENT: Yeah (whispering).
THERAPIST: Well then maybe that's you know one of those (other clearing throat) fundamental questions of what do you have a right to?
CLIENT: Yeah. Well, do you mean like [overlapping voices]
THERAPIST: In a really general, general, basic way.
CLIENT: Yeah. Um, are you asking me what I think?
THERAPIST: I was more, well maybe. I mean I was more commenting that this is sort of the question that you grapple with.
CLIENT: Right. Yeah, even just in terms of like my own feelings. And so I kind of, um, it feels like a, just an over, an all-encompassing kind of, a feeling that I have about (pause) whether it be like monetary or fiscal property or just thoughts in my head, um, (pause) yeah. [00:13:03]
So, it, it, was good and, um, (pause) I'd been having nightmares for the last week, I think, or so, um, and then I didn't have any last night.
THERAPIST: And that's really nice.
CLIENT: Yes (chuckling). I did have a dream that I was pregnant (pause) that was kind of weird (chuckling) but [overlapping voices]
THERAPIST: Remember that dream?
CLIENT: Oh yes, 'cause (ph) (pause) I remember all my dreams pretty, like it's [inaudible at 0:13:31] what I remember in my dreams but I usually remember them. Last night the dream was my, my best friend Emma, who lives here and just got married, she was nine months pregnant, then I found out I was four months pregnant but I still had my IUD that I have. And so I was excited but kind of panicked 'cause it's a really, you know if you have the IUD in and then you're pregnant compli-, I don't exactly know what happens but I know that it's not good. [00:13:55]
Um, and so in the dream I was like really nervous about that but also really excited. (Pause) And like Chris was out of town, so I called him and he was like, (using disparaging voice) "Oh great." (Pause) Um, and then I went to go tell my mom and she just glared at me and then walked away (chuckling), which is, I, which just would not be her reaction really.
I was pregnant when I was 20, and when I told her then, she, (pause) I, well told her that I was pregnant and I told that I was planning on getting an abortion 'cause I didn't want to have the child (audible breath) and she was devastated. And she wanted me to keep it and she was trying to talk, talk me into keeping it. And, at the time, her, you know my youngest brother was going through chemo, I was like this is not (chuckling), nobody is doing this, okay, but she kept trying to talk me into keeping the baby, [well full term for her] (ph). So the dream, I don't think it was a very accurate portrayal of how my mom (softening voice) would've actually reacted, but, um, (audible breath) (clearing throat). [00:15:01]
THERAPIST: But in the dream it was unwanted?
CLIENT: Oh yeah.
THERAPIST: And it simply reminds you of a [overlapping voices]
CLIENT: [Except for like] (ph) (pause) but that's how it was before. I mean even (pause) the first time I was actually pregnant and realized, I was (slight pause), it was hard, (audible breath) um, (slight pause) not because (long pause), it just wasn't an easy decision, (pause) especially after my mom's reaction [with other things] (ph).
Um, I think for a lot of people like me that feel like they really want children, um, (slight pause) if you have somebody who says "well, I'll help you and I'll su-, I'll help you support, (pause) you know yourself and this (pause) baby", that's kind of all you need to hear. And part of me was, was looking for that (pause). [00:15:59]
She said that but, at the same time, it, it just wasn't (pause) a good choice for me. And, obviously, I'm happy now that I made the choice that I did but, um, (slight pause) – not happy, happy is a bad word to use but – um, (slight pause) I think I made the right choice but, um, (pause) it still just wasn't easy (audible breath), [silence from 0:16:24 to 0:16:35] so.
(Slight pause) Um, but the other dreams had nothing to do with pregnancy, (slight pause) but those were all scary dreams (slight chuckle/sniffing). Um, (long pause) and I don't talk about that a whole lot (bit emotional). [00:16:58]
(Slight pause) I can't quite tell how – I've tried to talk to Chris about it (pause) just because (pause) I, I just don't want him, and I don't, (pause) I want him to be honest, if it's something that he feels uncomfortable, uncomfortable with, (pause) but, but his family's really religious and his, he's not really, because he grew up in a very Catholic household, and his mom like against you know like living together before marriage and all these things that we do, birth control and, um, so if she knew that I had had an abortion it would be a really big deal.
And so just, I've asked him a few times – I told him really early on in our relationship, um, and I just [overlapping voices]
THERAPIST: Do you know why?
CLIENT: I felt this need with him to like purge all of this and to like – not purge but just like lay everything out on the table. Kind of like "this is me and if you're gonna" – like I told him everything, things that I wish I really hadn't (chuckling), and sometimes I think that's being too honest (audible breath). [00:18:05]
I think it was this way of being like, well that this is it, like "this is all I've got and so if you're gonna", "you're gonna hear all of it and you're gonna see all of it eventually, so I'm just gonna tell you right now" and "this is it". I think it was my way of just kind of testing him, like, "Are you gonna stick around 'cause this is what I've got? So are you gonna, is that gonna scare you or am I gonna scare you?"
You know like (pause) none of this is gonna go away, and the thought of it all coming out slowly, over time, made me uncomfortable, and so I feel like Chris knew a, a lot of stuff within the first (pause) month.
THERAPIST: M-hmm.
CLIENT: Um, (pause) and I, I mean and it was also my time to get really close to him. Like I felt like "how could you not know this thing happened"? It was my time to like (sniffing – pause) I think just make this relationship happen really quickly (pause) [overlapping voices] [00:19:08]
THERAPIST: M-hmm.
CLIENT: ... and feel really close to somebody. Um, (pause) and I've always been a person who shares a lot of details (chuckling). I still, if I meet somebody and I, I over-share everything and like I mean I'm a big over-sharer. I wish I had a little (well sister) (ph) but I don't.
Um, (pause) so, yeah, he knew really quick and (pause) it (slight pause), with the, with the family stuff it just has never seemed to freak him out, with the other stuff, with my previous kind of relationships, that's where he gets a little freaked out but just doesn't talk about it. And so I ask him a lot of questions, like "does this make you uncomfortable"," are you okay with this" but, or "how do you feel about this?" and he just doesn't really give me much. [00:20:02]
THERAPIST: Hmm. What do you think you're looking for when you ask him these questions?
CLIENT: I guess I, I guess well like I think that he disapproves. In my head I think like "you have to be upset about this somehow", "like some part of this has to bother you". And when he doesn't tell me it does, I don't believe him. So it's like, "Why don't you just tell me what bothers you about it?" Do you know what I mean? Even if it doesn't, like to me, that's not valid. Like, "Something about this has to bother you. Like because, to me, I think if yo-, if you would've gotten another girl pregnant, that would, I would have some feeling about that." But (pause), um, and so I don't know, I don't know.
I know you know maybe he, maybe it doesn't bother him. Maybe he just thinks like "well that's part of your history and that's just part of – that doesn't have anything to do with us now". But I think because "there's so much weight in my life, in (pause) me going forward and having kids," (audible breath) that (pause) like "how could it not have any weight in yours?" Do you know what I mean? [00:21:11]
THERAPIST: So in a sense you're seeking his disapproval?
CLIENT: M-hmm, but I do that a lot with him. I always do that with everybody (sniffing). I always think like, (pause – audible breath/slight chuckle) like I'm always thinking like "why did you make that face"? Like what, not just to Chris, to my mom, to anybody, like "why're you making that face, like why are you"? I'm always like (pause), like I weave situations and I think like "when I was up close, talking to that girl really closely, she was looking at me weird; what was I doing, what was I saying that", like I'd, afterwards I'm always seeking, like thinking about like (pause), like just waiting for somebody to (pause), I don't know, I'm always seeking disapproval I guess. [00:21:57]
THERAPIST: Hmm.
CLIENT: Well both, but I'm expecting the disapproval (clearing throat).
THERAPIST: M-hmm. Well it sounds like seeking it, too, in some way.
CLIENT: M-hmm.
THERAPIST: Not necessarily wanting it but seeking it.
CLIENT: Right (clearing throat), um, so (slight chuckle – slight pause), um, I didn't know the question was there (sniffing). (Audible sigh/yawn) Ooh!
(Slight pause) Yeah, I've been, um, (pause) my friend (slight chuckle – pause), me and my over-sharing, um, my girlfriend and I had been taking these walks and I, uh, (pause) I just feel the need to like talk about every aspect of my life (chuckling). And so I was telling her you know "I've dealing with anxiety and I've been feeling really (pause) stressed and just tense" and was talking to her a lot about it and, um, it's something that just pretty (ph) girlfriend can't really relate to. And I think it made her really uncomfortable and kind of nervous because she can't relate to it. [00:23:02]
And I wasn't (pause), I was just trying to talk to my friend about my life, not (pause) just 'cause I like to get it all out. And, um, (slight chuckle) for my birthday she gave me a cookbook with, she's this really teeny like fit little girl and, um, she gave me this cookbook with all the nutrition facts in it, 'cause she knows that Chris and I are trying to be healthier. And, um, even though I already am like living pretty healthy – I don't look it but I'm living pretty good this time (slight chuckling) – and so she gave me that, and then she gave me this s-, this self-help book called like "You Can Be Happy No Matter What!" And it was really sweet and thoughtful and like (pause) it was a really thoughtful present (chuckling), but when I opened it, it was just me and her – she's my oldest friend, I've known her since I was five – and our one other friend Emma, just in my living room, and I cried when I opened (slight chuckle) the book and I pretended like I was crying 'cause it was so thoughtful and that it was like, so but I cried 'cause I was like "this is what my friend thinks of me (chuckling), this is so sad (chuckling)". [00:24:11]
Like it was just like kind of "you're a fatty" cookbook, like "well watch what you're cooking", but this is at least how I take it in my mind but it wasn't, that's not how she meant it, and then this self-help book called "You Can Be Happy No Matter What!" (Pause) And, um, I felt like (pause) "you are such a sad person (chuckling) your friend, on your birthday, is bringing these like two books 'cause you're just – can't handle your own life, so she's trying to help you.
(Audible breath – pause) Um, (slight pause) it was (slight pause), it was like kind of a moment of like "Wow! This is what I look like to you (sniffing)", at least that's how I took it, and I know she meant it as like just trying to be nice and just thinking about me and thinking about (pause) wh-, where I am right now and what you know 'cause I was the one who had been talking to her about these things. [00:25:07]
And so she just took those things that I was saying and tried to give me a thoughtful gift, (pause) but all it looked like, to me, was just like a reflection of the person that I've become (chuckling). It's like oh my God, (pause) like you need to just slap on a happy face every once in a while and tell your friends that things are okay, just for the sake of your own like (sniffing), (pause) like same old face, (pause) do you know what I mean? Just kind of like, I don't know, (pause) um.
THERAPIST: Is she someone who typically can relate to sad or more complication from you?
CLIENT: Um, a little bit, yeah. And she is, she, um, (pause) a little bit. Her, her mom is a very depressed person and, um, well not very depressed, like it paints a different picture, but you know her mom drinks a bottle of wine every night and then is very moody, very moody and very kooky. [00:26:11]
And so (pause) this friend, Trish (ph), she has some complicated family dynamics that kind of (pause) make her a little sad, I think, so she can relate to being sadder. And, um, (pause) but, yeah, but those are like, I think (audible breath – pause) those are (pause) – I know that she can't relate to – I think when I was telling her about my anxiety, that made her uncomfortable, um, because she can't relate to it and so she, she kept asking more questions (pause). Like "well what does it feel like?" and "what do you, what do you feel like?" and "what happens?" and "what do you –", (pause) and she just said you know like "I don't know what that's like at all, I can't understand it", and I feel like it made her a little uncomfortable, but I know it wasn't supposed to be a mean like – and I've been reading the book, so I'm trying to (chuckling), at least, [live my cool] (ph) and I'm, I'm trying to take it with a grain of salt. [00:27:11]
But, um, (pause) it, uh, (pause) it's talking of actually giving power to your feelings and things like that and, um, you know just you know we all have negative thoughts and thoughts are only thoughts, (pause) you know, you know you don't need to give them any more power than – and, and some of that I believe and some of it I don't believe.
(Pause) So what I think, (slight pause) I do think that there's – and I'm trying certainly to think about it when, um, (pause) you know (pause) when I have kind of like these just overwhelming, just like tense, anxious feelings, I've been trying to think like well I'm just, I don't need to give this feeling any power. I can (pause) just try to (slight pause) get at, um, (slight pause) I can just move onto another feeling. [00:28:09]
Um, but my brother said something a few months ago that keeps sticking in my head, about being genuine. And he was talking about, um, how he could, um, like when he, (slight pause) like slap on a happy face and kind of like faking it till you make it doesn't work for him 'cause he doesn't feel like that's genuine, doesn't feel like he's being – (pause) and he, he was all concerned about like being genuine to himself and his feelings. (Pause) And, and I just kind of have a hard time with that 'cause I don't know (slight pause), I don't want to be disingenuine and I want to always be myself, (pause) but if my go-to self is an anxious, unhappy person, I don't really like that person. [00:29:03]
THERAPIST: M-hmm.
CLIENT: And so (slight pause) how do I stay, (pause) keep paying attention to the things that maybe make me tense, unhappy and nervous, whatever? How do I pay attention to the things that are maybe negative feelings but still try to stay happy? And so I'm trying to figure out, like (slight pause) I don't want to just pretend to be happy until I get real happy. (Pause) I do not, I don't know how to do this exactly.
(Pause) I don't want to just brush everything negative under the rug, because I think there's something valid (pause) there, when I am having a negative feeling/thought/experience, I'd like to pay attention to it without giving it too much weight. And so I'm trying to figure out (slight pause) what that means, I guess, or where – (pause) I guess I'm thinking about it too much. [00:30:00]
THERAPIST: But why do you say that?
CLIENT: Sounds like I really (chuckling) [need to get to a clinic, cure that] (ph). Um, (pause) so I just (slight pause/breathless) I don't know. (Slight pause) I feel like I've, um, (slight pause) I guess (breathless) I don't know, I guess I just (slight pause) want to (pause), yeah, not (pause) give too much weight to the negative experiences but still, take them seriously enough that it's just like not "oh, no big deal". But it's like "oh yeah, that thing I've been through is negative, this is probably why, this is maybe what I felt about it, but here's the other side of it and I can still move on and still be happy and still be (emphasis) okay (pause) in that side of it", which I have a hard time with. I tend to stay down here and focus and pick and circle. (Pause) And then I don't come gradually, I go from here to here. [00:31:04]
THERAPIST: Hmm.
CLIENT: I don't, I'm like "okay, well shut that off"; I either, like shut this off and turn this on (pause) or I just stay down here. I would like it to be kind of like a more – am I making any sense (chuckling)?
THERAPIST: Well why do you say that? Does it feel unclear to you?
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: M-hmm.
CLIENT: Um, (pause).
THERAPIST: What about it feels unclear?
CLIENT: Just 'cause I don't (pause), since it's not something that I know, I don't know how to describe it.
THERAPIST: M-hmm.
CLIENT: (Pause) So, 'cause I guess like I don't, I'm also scared that I don't know really what I'm looking for, so. [Silence from 0:31:44 to 0:31:54]
'Cause in my head it's like "well that makes sense". And when I say it out loud it's "that doesn't make any sense, what are you talking about (chuckling/sniffing)". (Pause) Um, [long pause] yeah, and I don't know (pause) if that's possible, to just (slight pause), to have you know (pause), is, is that you know (pause), is just having the negative side or the happy side (pause) is that just what it is or is there just kind of like more of like (slight pause) a middle ground that I just don't see? (Pause) Um, where I can (slight pause), I don't know. I just feel like there's no neutral for me. There is either like (slight pause), kind of like, "Uh (elongating), like okay! Here we go!" (Audible breath – pause) Um [overlapping voices]
THERAPIST: Do you feel like that?
CLIENT: Well yeah (relieving sigh – pause), sometimes. [00:33:00]
THERAPIST: I mean that "okay, here we go" like?
CLIENT: Yeah!
THERAPIST: There was something that seemed so forced in how you did it maybe.
CLIENT: That's how I kind of, in (slight pause), that's how I wake up in the day, like "all right, (pause) bitch, like get it together, here we go", kind of like (sniffing) that's what I wake up thinking (slight pause), "You're going to be happy today (chuckling), you're just gonna do it!" Um, (pause) and it's forced, because I'd rather force myself to feel, to pretend to be happy than just be in my slump, (pause) and even if that's more comfortable, I'd rather like force this, like "I'm gonna make the breakfast and pour some orange juice", you know what I mean? Like, I'd rather force this (pause) because I end up having a better time anyway. [00:33:52]
Like this morning I was grouchy, but I'd rather wake up and like smile, and like (pause) poke at Chris when he comes out of the bedroom (pause), and pretend to be this cheerier person (pause), because like it ends up being better for me, for him, (pause) if that's what I do.
THERAPIST: Right.
CLIENT: (Sniffing – pause) And I think that if I keep just kind of pretending that way long enough it'll just be real, (pause) 'cause that's, I don't know, (pause) it kind of worked that way before (chuckling).
THERAPIST: Did it?
CLIENT: Yeah. When I was living in California I just kind of (pause) pretended (pause) to be a happier person, and then I'd – and whether that's what ended up making me happier or whether it was the, you know being really away from my family and being independent and feeling like I was creating this new life, but whatever it was, eventually, that was the happiest I'd ever been. Even before, you know before I started dating, it wasn't just Chris, it was, before that it was just (pause), um, something about (pause) being there and being (pause) on my own and feeling really (pause) happy just in my own skin. [00:35:10]
THERAPIST: M-hmm.
CLIENT: Um, (pause) and I don't know if – and, and when I moved there that's what I decided, by talking to this one, the girlfriend that I was living with, who I'd moved from Concord with. And she had told me she'd had kind of – you know her parents got divorced and well that she'd had kind of a, (pause) a tricky childhood, and so she had said, "You know I just decided one day that I was gonna be happy." I was like "well huh, that's new", I'd never heard that before; like "you can just decide to be happy?" what a strange concept to me. (Audible breath – pause) And, um, she was talking about something sh-, a thought she'd had when she was 12! But still, for me, at 21, I felt like "I could probably do that". And so I just decided to (pause) at least pretend to be happy! And (pause) it kind of worked! (Pause) And, again, I don't know if exactly, that's exactly what worked or if it was all the other you know factors as well. [00:36:06]
But, um, (pause) I, I do think that (pause) you can decide to be (pause), to, to a point, decide to be (pause) happier or more unhappy. (Pause) And I think that at certain points (pause) I've just resigned to being unhappy.
THERAPIST: M-hmm.
CLIENT: Um, (slight pause) but I'm trying to kind of not do that, (pause) um, incorporate it (chuckling), at least for the last month that I've been trying.
THERAPIST: M-hmm.
CLIENT: (Pause) So.
THERAPIST: There are certain things that you gloss over that I find so striking, like, "Oh, I never had glasses growing up and every time I read I had a headache. But anyway, let me tell you what happened this week." [00:37:02]
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: And you've done that a couple of times; I'm always struck by that.
CLIENT: Well 'cause I just know that'll give me, it'll make me upset.
THERAPIST: Yeah.
CLIENT: So (sad).
THERAPIST: And you don't want to be upset?
CLIENT: Well I don't want to, (slight pause) no. (Long pause) I also just don't want to have this like poor me (pause), 'cause that's not what I'm doing here (chuckling). But, um, (pause), um, (pause) like my mom used to always tell me growing up, like "stop feeling so sorry for yourself", and so that's what that feels like; like "just stop feeling so sorry for yourself".
THERAPIST: Did she say that a lot?
CLIENT: Oh, all the time.
THERAPIST: Hmm.
CLIENT: You know I was always feeling sorry for myself growing up, (pause), um, (pause – emotional) and so (audible breath) [overlapping voices]
THERAPIST: You don't have to feel sorry for what? [00:38:00]
CLIENT: Um (emotional sigh).
THERAPIST: A horrible situation?
CLIENT: (Long pause) Well, (slight pause – emotional) she (pause) had it harder (slight pause). But (pause) you know when I saw (ph) my glasses, when I was ten and I had to get new glasses, my dad was gone, he'd left for a year or so, um, (pause) I don't know where he was, but we were on welfare at the time (pause), um, so we just couldn't afford them.
(Pause) And then he came back when my grandpa died and we had all of our money, but suddenly it just wasn't, like nobody thought of that anymore. Like it just wasn't (pause) – do you know what I mean (sniffing)? So it's like, yeah, I get that we couldn't get me the new glasses because (pause) then we couldn't pay for food! [00:38:59]
But a year later my dad was back and (pause) we had a lot more money, (pause) and we could buy you know a brand new huge house and all these Land Rovers and everything, so like why can't I get my glasses (sniffing)? (Pause) Um, (pause) and it just, (long pause), just things I don't really understand, like why they weren't paid attention to or why they weren't a priority.
THERAPIST: Yeah.
CLIENT: And like why am I, um, (slight pause), [I act just as my mom did] (ph), it's like my academic (pause) career, if you could call it that (slight chuckle), uh, and how it just wasn't, just wasn't a priority. It wasn't a, (pause) not only not a priority, just wasn't (pause) anything. Like the only source of, the only thing that was talked about was like "why are you failing all of the classes?" and that was it. [00:40:01]
That's, it would you know, there'd be like maybe an occasion like "do you have homework tonight?" and then I would (pause) say "no" and watch seven hours of television (sniffing – pause) but, um, like there was just no (slight pause) – I mean in fourth grade I remember all my girlfriends (pause) and like hiding in the bathroom so that they could help me with my science projects, like just so young and so early, where my nine and ten-year-old friends realized like "we have to help her 'cause no one else is". (Audible breath – pause) but you know and, to me, that's sad, (pause) mm.
So then this other girlfriend, the one who gave me the books, so like she was one of the fourth graders in the bathroom helping with the project, (audible breath – pause) you know she always says like, "Well no one checked on my homework. No one like made – no one asked me if I was doing any homework. No one's ..." [overlapping voices] [00:41:01]
THERAPIST: I was thinking how similar those situations feel to you.
CLIENT: Yeah, (pause) what do you mean, what situations?
THERAPIST: The situations of you know the little girl in the bathroom [overlapping voices]
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: ... and the grown woman whose friend is like, "I'll help you with life. Hear this; here's this; try this out and try this out; this might help you with your life."
CLIENT: No, it feels the exact same.
THERAPIST: M-hmm.
CLIENT: Well that group of girls, (pause) I'm still very close with (pause) her and my friend Stephanie, and then these two other g-, girlfriends that we made in high school. And then in that group of girls, I was always the one who was (pause) you know needing help and the one who was acting out and the one who was "we need to either take care of her, ostracize her or criticize what she's been doing". (Pause) And I was always kind of this like wild child (pause) or like needing help, a wilting flower, damsel in distress, a hot mess. [00:41:57]
And then my California girlfriends (pause), I was always kind of this like strong, independent, like "I'm gonna tell you like what you should do" and "I have this advice" and "this is what I think", and I'm very like clear in my opinions, in what I think and how I feel, (audible breath – slight pause) and it's just these two completely contrasting people.
And when I'm in the, the living room, on my birthday, and I have one girl from one group, whose known me my entire life and has pretty much only seen me as this like sad, helpless thing; and then my girlfriend from California, who sees me as this like really you know outspoken and, um, (pause) you know maybe stronger person; it's very, I feel very conflicted and I'm kind of like "well which one am I"? [00:42:56]
And (audible breath – pause), um, (slight pause) I still, when we get around in this group with my friends from home, who I've been friends with my whole life, I still fall into these like patterns of being (pause), getting too drunk, being inappropriate, being (pause) just kind of (slight pause), just not who I want to be (pause), and then when we're in California I'm not that person.
THERAPIST: Yeah.
CLIENT: And it's just, it (pause), you know I know that bothers me, and I know that that's common for a lot of people, to fall into these kinds of roles (pause) but, um, it frustrates me about myself (sniffing).
THERAPIST: M-hmm. I think we're going to need to stop for today [overlapping voices]
CLIENT: Okay.
THERAPIST: ... [it's five minutes of] (ph). So we're still set for Monday.
CLIENT: Great.
THERAPIST: So if I'm here late (ph), and so just to remind you or to tell you, [overlapping voices]
CLIENT: Hmm.
THERAPIST: ... I hope just to remind you, that [overlapping voices]
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: ... I'm away the week of the 13th, February 13th.
CLIENT: Okay.
THERAPIST: So, well just I'm here for the next three weeks; [overlapping voices]
CLIENT: Okay.
THERAPIST: ... whereas, that week I'm away. [00:44:00]
CLIENT: Great.
THERAPIST: Okay?
CLIENT: Okay. So [overlapping voices]
THERAPIST: So I'll see you on Monday.
CLIENT: Yeah. I'll e-mail you if we get our [overlapping voices]
THERAPIST: Oh yeah, yeah.
CLIENT: ... [inaudible] certificate.
THERAPIST: And now I'll, or you know whenever that I'll, I can just send, I'll send it off.
CLIENT: Okay, great.
THERAPIST: Sorry. Okay, great.
CLIENT: Thanks.
THERAPIST: Take care, bye-bye.
CLIENT: You, too. [Clearing up from 0:44:13 to end – 0:44:32]
<b>END TRANSCRIPT</b>
