TRANSCRIPT OF AUDIO FILE:
______________________________________________________________________________
BEGIN TRANSCRIPT:
Telephone ringing. 
CLIENT: Hello?
COUNSELOR: Hey Lucy. It's Josephine.
CLIENT: Hello.
COUNSELOR: Hi. How are you doing? 
CLIENT: I'm doing ok. I think I'm kinda where other people are in the group as far as struggling with truly moderate meals. 
COUNSELOR: Yeah, meaning...
CLIENT: High moderate. Or even the low end but mostly the high end. 
COUNSELOR: Yeah. So do you kinda bounce between the low and the high and don't have many mid-moderate sized meals?
CLIENT: It seems like again, you know my pattern which has been proven very difficult for me to break is a low moderate breakfast. 
COUNSELOR: Yeah.
CLIENT: A moderate lunch. I'm pretty good on lunches, and then a high moderate dinner. 
COUNSELOR: I don't know if I've made this suggestion before but Ill throw to you this time. When people are talking about trying to break that pattern, I'll say can you plan a few days of eating breakfast foods, you know a breakfast meal in the evening. And what happens is then you wake up a little hungrier.
CLIENT: Hungrier, right. 
COUNSELOR: Yeah. 
CLIENT: I'm going to actually try to do that tonight. 
COUNSELOR: Ok. All right. It doesn't take too many, like three or four nights to make the transition, and it's easier to be more mid-moderate. You know you can have eggs and toast and a piece of fruit. Or the, you know cereal and yogurt and muffin. Or you know, kinda move around with one or the other. 
CLIENT: Right.
COUNSELOR: But the ones that you typically would rate as you know a three or a four. Try that. And then usually it doesn't take long for that to shift. 
CLIENT: Ok. And we've been eating out a lot. And ever since like I watched that program about how you get six times a moderate serving og pasta at a restaurant... six times than a moderate serving should be.
COUNSELOR: Yeah. Yeah.
CLIENT: And it's just like you know there's a huge disappointment around what really truly is moderate. Because we're all very used to overeating... but undereating breakfast. 
COUNSELOR: Well certainly in the United States.
CLIENT: Yeah. 
COUNSELOR: Wasn't it somebody's homework assignment that said moderate is a European serving?
CLIENT: Yeah that was Holly, right. 
COUNSELOR: Yeah.
CLIENT: And I've been to Europe and I haven't noticed that myself, that their portions are that much smaller. But I will, I will try and be aware of that when I'm over there.
COUNSELOR: And I haven't been to Italy, so I've been to Greece and Spain. 
CLIENT: Uh huh. 
COUNSELOR: And I have found that to be, particularly in Greece. That's probably where I've spent the most time. 
CLIENT: Yeah. 
COUNSELOR: And I've found they're very moderate. And they're kinda three times a day. 
CLIENT: It is kinda like in Italy but we'll see. 
COUNSELOR: Ok. 
CLIENT: Because I don't remember three years ago that the portions were all that moderate. So we'll see. (chuckles)
COUNSELOR: Maybe so, I think that the United States culture of "more is better" is certainly infiltrating everywhere. And the more we do that, the more we hook them with the dieting. 
CLIENT: Well exactly and the more obesity is coming to places like China... that's never been before, ever. 
COUNSELOR: Yeah, right, right. Well it's usually if the here or we've sent them McDonalds and Coca Cola. 
CLIENT: Right, right. 
COUNSELOR: And that certainly seems to effect them in a very negative way. Did you know that the generation of my grandkids has a shorter life span than I do or you do?
CLIENT: That's horrible. 
COUNSELOR: Isn't that something?
CLIENT: I mean I don't know how we managed to screw things up so badly in these last couple of generations. 
COUNSELOR: Yeah. Yeah and nobody's looking at that or talking about it..
CLIENT: Now that's really horrible. 
COUNSELOR: Isn't that something? Yeah. And they've known that for a while. About you know eight years or so.
CLIENT: That's like, don't we care? You know unbelievable. 
COUNSELOR: Yeah. It's pretty sad. But I know in California they are finally taking the soda machines off the school campus... I think this last year or two. 
CLIENT: Wow. 
COUNSELOR: A lot of the school districts are taking them off the campus. But again we can't wait for the general public to let go of this insanity, we have to step up and become the best Mom to our body we can.
CLIENT: Uh huh. 
COUNSELOR: We can't wait until the looksism or sizeism bigotry is challenged. The dieting bigotry, you know the dieting mentality that says it works when in fact there's no indications that diets work. Truly there's no indication. There is actually a 95-98% failure rate.
CLIENT: Um hmm.
COUNSELOR: So it's up to us to change. So I'm glad that you're tackling them head on. 
CLIENT: Well I'm trying and like I said, you know it's always so reassuring to hear someone else going through the same thing. And know that the group, you know Sylvia is struggling with it. 
COUNSELOR: Um hmm.
CLIENT: And Heather is struggling with it. You know when you've overeaten for years and that seems somewhat normal to you and then.
COUNSELOR: Yeah. 
CLIENT: You realize you're really overeating and you know it's like the duh. No wonder I'm not losing weight you know. 
COUNSELOR: Um hmm. Right. 
CLIENT: Or I'm losing it extremely slowly or you know. 
COUNSELOR: Right, right. 
CLIENT: So I, you know unless you have a medical condition the reason you're overweight is you're taking in more calories than you're burning. 
COUNSELOR: Right. Right. And you've already had Dr. Carpenter kind check everything out.
CLIENT: Yeah. 
COUNSELOR: Yeah. 
CLIENT: I can't you know, there is no medical real reason. 
COUNSELOR: Ok yeah. 
CLIENT: You know in fact I need to send another swab, I have that on my "to do" list for tomorrow... to send another swab. 
COUNSELOR: And so are you only doing the hormones? 
CLIENT: I'm doing the liquid hormones and he's got me on folic acid and Vitamin B's. 
COUNSELOR: Ok. 
CLIENT: It helps my energy level a lot. 
COUNSELOR: Good. Good. 
CLIENT: I hope I stay on those.
COUNSELOR: I'll suggest something to you. You're going to be in the country what, how many more weeks before you?
CLIENT: We're not leaving until the 12 of June.
COUNSELOR: Ok. 
CLIENT: So another month. 
COUNSELOR: Well I'll make a suggestion that hopefully you can consider as a long term. But maybe even if you're equipped for it a short term before you head out. And did you ever give me your hormone numbers? 
CLIENT: He never gave them to me. You mean that's on my little bottle?
COUNSELOR: Yeah that's on your little bottle, yeah.
CLIENT: No not yet, but I will.
CLIENT: Testosterone.
COUNSELOR: What's that number? 
CLIENT: Is that a zero or an eight. I think it's an eight. 
COUNSELOR: Ok. 
CLIENT: Yeah. And then progesterone's seven.
COUNSELOR: Ok. 
CLIENT: Estrogen 18. 
COUNSELOR: Ok. 
CLIENT: Esterone 16. Esterol 10.
COUNSELOR: Ok so two of them, the two near 17 are high. So that may make a difference, weight wise, as those come down.
CLIENT: That means my hormones are high? Not what's in the bottle? 
COUNSELOR: That means that yeah, the numbers that, the 17 that it's reflecting is a little bit higher than average. 
CLIENT: Because that's what Aceline ... said that my estrogen is too high. 
COUNSELOR: Yeah, yeah. And so you want them all to be say between eights and elevens. 
CLIENT: Oh, ok. 
COUNSELOR: So those two are a little high. So that may make a little bit of difference. 
CLIENT: Ok. 
COUNSELOR: In more than just your weight. I mean it should make it, as those come into balance it should make a little more difference in sleeping well and mood being better and you know it should have some nice subtle changes for you. 
CLIENT: Ok good. 
COUNSELOR: You know fat is where estrogen is stored..
CLIENT: Right. 
COUNSELOR: And so that could make a difference. And you know when we go through puberty and the body tries to put on fat cells to help us with our estrogen levels, well we certainly don't need it to do that in menopause. (chuckles)
CLIENT: Right. 
COUNSELOR: So we'll see about that. But I think going back to exactly what you've kinda addressed right at the beginning is that you want to quit underfeeding your body during the day and overfeeding it in the evening. 
CLIENT: Um hmm.
COUNSELOR: Because that pattern is also teaching the body that it's not going to get enough fuel in the day so when it gets food in the evening it better store it as fat so it has an option to use it as fuel the next day. 
CLIENT: Um hmm. Great message. (chuckles)
COUNSELOR: Yeah, yeah. Unfortunately it's one that in the United States is a pretty common one. We don't realize that, we don't treat food as fuel. 
CLIENT: Um hmm.
COUNSELOR: And I think you can treat it as fuel and really enjoy your meals as well. I don't think they're incompatible. 
CLIENT: It's just, you know you don't have to be stuffed. It's a whole new awareness, you know. 
COUNSELOR: Um hmm. Yeah. 
CLIENT: You know after each meal I don't have to fee full, just satisfied. 
COUNSELOR: Yeah, yeah.
CLIENT: So I'm retraining.
COUNSELOR: And it does take a little while but you've got to be deliberate about it. 
CLIENT: Definitely and hyper-aware. 
COUNSELOR: Um hmm. Right. 
CLIENT: Especially eating out because you know it's astounding to know that you're getting not only probably twice as much as you need but you know maybe three, four, five, six times more than you should be having. 
COUNSELOR: Um hmm. Yep. I had a condo in San Francisco and a restaurant that was across the street was a Mexican restaurant. And you know, Mexican probably isn't my very favorite food but the first time I tried it I realized that as I went in that the restaurant, it was really dominated by obese people. Not just overweight people but obese people.
CLIENT: Uh huh.
COUNSELOR: And when I saw the portions they brought, I knew why. 
CLIENT: Yeah.
COUNSELOR: Because you can pretend that all you're having just a meal... not the amount of 2 or 3 moderate meals.
CLIENT: Right.
COUNSELOR: When it's three times a moderate meal size and then you wonder why you're twice as heavy as you should be, you know. 
CLIENT: Exactly. We went out to a Mexican restaurant last night and I was noticing the portions. I was looking around at everyone's plates and it was at least two or three times more than what now to be moderate.
COUNSELOR: Yeah. 
CLIENT: And most people are finishing their food.
COUNSELOR: Yeah, yeah. 
CLIENT: Anyway. 
COUNSELOR: Well it's a good awareness and it's good for you to maybe decide how you want to handle eating out dinners. 
CLIENT: You know Weight Watchers, their point system? 
COUNSELOR: Yeah. 
CLIENT: It's all about portion control right?
COUNSELOR: I think that's what Weight Watchers is trying to teach. I mean they're structured in a very dieting mentality but I don't think what they're telling you to do is to diet. They're telling you to eat moderate. 
CLIENT: I was almost tempted to do the online thing of the point thing but I don't know. I hesitated big time because that feels so diety to me to be doing something like that but...
COUNSELOR: Yeah. Is it, how much does it cost to get their menus? 
CLIENT: I don't know I have to look, I don't know how much it is or anything. Or what's involved with it. 
COUNSELOR: Well it sounds like what you need are some menus. 
CLIENT: Yeah, so it might be a good way to get some menus. 
COUNSELOR: Yeah. Well one of the things that I try to do with people is to brainstorm. And what you and I have done it is to brainstorm two or three different breakfasts, two or three different lunches, two or three different dinners so that you start to get a sense of moderate meals and moderate as a range.
CLIENT: Right. Like the homework in group too.
COUNSELOR: Yeah. So you start to get an idea of that. And then now the homework this week has been to focus in on that. So did that seem to help at all?
CLIENT: I haven't done that. I think I will.
COUNSELOR: Ok.
CLIENT: I was wondering should I do the homework and send it to the group or should I do the homework and just send it to you?
COUNSELOR: Oh no, no. Send the homework to the group. 
CLIENT: So I just go ahead and do the homework and just send it to the group?
COUNSELOR: Yeah. I would definitely encourage you to do that. 
CLIENT: Ok. 
COUNSELOR: Yeah. This is the second time I've had a gal in group that's been in the service and stationed in another country and all she can do is the homework until she gets back in the states. And then she comes back to the states and is in a better time zone, she can be on line and talking with the group. But it helps to just have the homework and be in the loop of the homework.
CLIENT: Ok, great. That's good. I'm glad. 
COUNSELOR: Ok. 
CLIENT: That's great. I will do it. 
COUNSELOR: And I think you will find if you do that, what might come together for you is that deeper level of honesty; you'll get a chance to shatter the denial about what's moderate. And a more loving awareness of what feels good in your body. 
CLIENT: Ok, ok. That's really good news that I can continue with the group that way, because it will keep me very accountable. 
COUNSELOR: Yeah, yeah, definitely. 
CLIENT: Ok. 
COUNSELOR: Yeah. So if you want to do the group homework and  I'll have them for going over our next appointment. We'll go over where you think the you meals are in the range of moderate. And I think you know last week Heather said, "I'm going to take digital pictures." 
CLIENT: I think that's a good idea. 
COUNSELOR: Yeah? 
CLIENT: Yeah. 
COUNSELOR: And you know that helps us all pull into the reality. The addiction loves us to stay out of reality about moderate. But you know the Big Book, of Alcoholic Anonymous, talks about honesty in the fifth chapter, "How it Works," And in the first paragraph it mentions honesty three times. And for us, I really do think our willingness to be rigorously honest about moderate, is key in our abstinence and recovery.  If we're willing to do that then we're the ones that are going to recover. If we're unwilling to do that, our chances are less than average. 
CLIENT: And that's always the scary thing for all of us... are we those people who are incapable of being honest?
COUNSELOR: Yeah. It's scary to wonder if we have the capacity to be honest and the willingness to be honest.
CLIENT: Our willingness to be really, really honest.
COUNSELOR: And I've noticed this... it's something you've talked about before... people who often do a moderate range three breakfast, moderate range five lunch, moderate range dinner eight that they're doing what I call the "internal teddy bear." That they have anxiety in the evening they don't even know they're medicating. 
CLIENT: Um hmm.
COUNSELOR: And so when you switch to this pattern I'm suggesting that maybe you pick two or three days and you just do breakfast meals for dinner... not only are breakfast meals usually pretty easily digested, not too heavy, but they are typically mid-range moderate. 
CLIENT: Um hmm. 
COUNSELOR: If you notice your anxiety go up, get the pen and paper out. 
CLIENT: Ok. 
COUNSELOR: And really try to give a voice to that anxiety. Try to see, if it's one of the inner younger kids that are starting to talk but try to just get some stuff down in black and white. 
CLIENT: Ok. 
COUNSELOR: And hang in there. Don't, assume that that anxiety is going to kill you. Don't assume that you know anything else. But often times we're using fullness in the evening a sedative...and that pattern I just described, oftentimes it's usually the people eat late as well.
CLIENT: Ok. 
END TRANSCRIPT
<script type="text/javascript">
&lt;!--
function __showhidenote(id){document.getElementById(id).style.display=(document.getElementById(id).style.display=='none')?'':'none';}
//--&gt;
</script>
<br /><br /><center><a href="#top">back to top</a></center>

