Transcript of Audio File:
______________________________________________________________________________
BEGIN TRANSCRIPT:
CLIENT: This is voice, not video?
THERAPIST: Right.
CLIENT: Okay. So, I got an e-mail this morning when I work up saying, "Tech Career Fair today; come." I haven't seen any posters.
THERAPIST: Yes.
CLIENT: A welcome poster on the Grad blog. You know I have the university friended on Facebook. Nothing was posted on Facebook, no e-mail sent out. So I panicked and spent an hour playing computer games instead of getting my act together.
And then I went to get dressed. I haven't done a job hunt in five years, and I haven't done an interview. I was interviewing for grad school two and a half years ago. I've gained weight since then and none of my interview clothes fit.
THERAPIST: Okay.
CLIENT: I tried three different outfits. Like some of them didn't button, one just looked horrible, so I tried to pull together an outfit from like random pieces I've bought in the last year or two and nothing worked and I ended up with this. [00:01:00]
It's terrible. And I was going to put a black cardigan over this outfit.
THERAPIST: What's wrong with that?
CLIENT: I don't know. I'm used to wearing skirts and colored button shirts for professional purposes.
THERAPIST: Mm-hmm.
CLIENT: So I feel like turtlenecks just scream like casual, I don't give a fuck.
THERAPIST: I see.
CLIENT: So I was going at the very least put a cardigan over it but my one black cardigan had bright sparkly purple and green fuzz all over it from my last knitting project. I was wearing it for warmth even though it's supposed to be kept only for fashion purposes. So I'm kicking myself now.
And I purged my makeup back in December. I went through anything that was old; out of date and slightly cakey and little like oil was over it. I threw out a lot of it. I haven't replaced it because I don't do the high fem thing and I don't really wear makeup. So I have no professional makeup.
Like I have a few products but they're all like sparkly glitter and like purple and gold shit for like going to parties. [00:02:01]
THERAPIST: Mm-hmm, right. For fun, not for interviews.
CLIENT: And my hair is a mess, my eyebrows are a mess, my nails are a mess because, you know, these are the things I only care about when I'm interviewing.
THERAPIST: Right.
CLIENT: Like it's just everything is a mess. My resume isn't pulled together so yes, it's that this morning from the time I work up until I realized it was 11:30 and I needed to have left 15 minutes ago [coughing]. Alternately avoiding my problems by playing stupid games on the computer and running around the house flailing about the fact that I had - I didn't have my act together for this career fair this afternoon.
And I just, I hate everything and I hate everyone and like yeah. And I don't know, it's all, it's all very frustrating, especially because I knew that I would be job hunting soon in December. And I have such a hard time finding clothes that fit and look good off the rack. [00:03:01]
Like even when I go to nicer stores like Nordstrom's or Lord and Taylor there's just - there's nothing that fits my size and shape.
And so, you know, I contacted a couple of tailors that friends of mine recommend to have, you know, custom interview shirts made and then didn't follow up because January was just this like sink pit of self-hatred and wallowing in crap.
So I could have had an outfit like a decent interview outfit put together by now if I hadn't like spent all of January wallowing in self-pity and being an idiot instead of, you know, getting on with my life.
THERAPIST: I'm not - for what it's worth, I'm not remembering nearly as much wallowing in self-pity, at least as I heard about it, as like major league self-flagellation.
CLIENT: Yes, okay.
THERAPIST: I mean yes. I mean yeah - I mean like beating the hell out of yourself pretty viciously. [00:04:01]
CLIENT: But you know it's not useful. (Pause)
THERAPIST: That's true.
CLIENT: So yeah.
THERAPIST: Right.
CLIENT: I met with my advisor yesterday.
THERAPIST: I know that's not (inaudible at 00:04:16) what you were saying.
CLIENT: Yes. I don't know I just - I still think my thesis project is a steaming pile of shit.
THERAPIST: Yes.
CLIENT: And I met with my advisor yesterday to talk about a paper submission in mid-March that she wants to submit for, and she was like you know, like if we just reported what you did, there's no meat. I think maybe you should do like a comparison of other methodologies and show that yours is better.
And I was like, of course. Like I have been - like here's my outline of the paper and I haven't told you yet but it includes, you know, a view of Lem's (sp) methodology and Banarjee's (sp) methodology and Rouseau's (sp) methodology and our methodology.
And, you know, once I finish this batch of results I'm working on, I hope it shows that ours are more accurate or something. [00:05:02]
THERAPIST: Yes.
CLIENT: But just reporting ours is kind of - and she was like oh, so you're already thinking that way? And because, of course I was because I didn't want to say to her but I was thinking, you know, this project is bullshit. And it's just [Pause] I don't know she's - this isn't her field and it's clear that she doesn't really know the field.
THERAPIST: Right.
CLIENT: But it's really frustrating for me because I sure as hell don't know the field, I'm a student and I'm relying on her and she's just like, I don't know. And so I don't feel very confident going in to this Career Fair. That like I did anything worth talking about even.
THERAPIST: Like as far as the project or period, in Grad School?
CLIENT: Well, that's the thing right?
THERAPIST: Yes.
CLIENT: I feel like the projects I worked on for my Imaging class and my circuitry class were definitely worth talking about, but they were class projects not a thesis. [00:06:07]
And I feel like everyone's - I don't know, maybe I shouldn't be going in expecting everyone to ask me about my thesis instead of, you know, what are you interested in or what have you done.
But it seems to me that the obvious thing to talk about is grants and your thesis and not like a general project for a class. [Pause]
THERAPIST: I don't know, you tell me. You're probably closer to this - surely closer to this than me. But I imagine what they really want to know is how you can talk about what you've done and show that you can think.
CLIENT: Yes.
THERAPIST: You know, more so than they want to know completely about your thesis other than...
CLIENT: Right. And also I'm not applying for a Research job, I'm applying for, you know, Development and Design jobs which are, you know, different.
THERAPIST: Yeah.
CLIENT: But I'm still super stressed and anxious about it.
THERAPIST: Sure.
CLIENT: I can't find - I took my Ativan which, you know, ordinarily I would take under these circumstances, but I lost my pill bottle. [00:07:08]
THERAPIST: Oh gosh; yeah.
CLIENT: I don't want to go to this Career Fair but I have to because they're going to be like 50 companies there and they're all places I want to work. But I haven't had time to do any background research on them and, you know, formulate like intelligent questions that indicate that I actually care about that company which is, you know, what I've been told you should do if you want to impress the Career Fair reps.
And it's just I hate going in to those cold. I'm totally unprepared.
THERAPIST: No, this thing is a nightmare for you I would think.. You would probably be nervous and feeling like you weren't ready and hadn't done a good enough job, even if you had prepared as much as you wanted to prepare doing this.
CLIENT: Mm-hmm.
THERAPIST: Let alone hearing about it on the day of and having to walk in there cold. I think I can see why, for you in particular, this is harrowing and awful. [00:08:01] [Pause]
CLIENT: So you think this outfit is reasonably professional-ish for business casual? I was told the dress code is business casual.
THERAPIST: Uh.
CLIENT: I don't know. I have no perspective on this.
THERAPIST: I think it looks fine. I mean I think I know what business casual looks like and I think that looks like business casual.
CLIENT: Okay.
THERAPIST: I mean I'm, you know...
CLIENT: I probably spent a good half an hour angsting over which earrings to wear. These are - you probably don't recognize them, but this the logo of the Python (inaudible at 00:08:40) language.
THERAPIST: Oh really?
CLIENT: Yes.
THERAPIST: I don't - I also have contacts and I can't see really that well
CLIENT: Got you.
THERAPIST: I mean I can see them a little bit but, I would imagine people at the fair are likely dressed in Izod.
CLIENT: Okay.
THERAPIST: Yeah. [Pause] You should be (inaudible at 00:08:58)
CLIENT: Huh?
THERAPIST: That's an end function.
CLIENT: Yes. I don't know, I just...
[Pause]
CLIENT: I can't believe I spent an hour playing games, not like all in one sitting but, you know, between, you know, 8:30 and 11:30. A third of my time was spent like fucking around playing games instead of getting ready.
THERAPIST: Would it have made a whole huge difference. I mean an hour or more to prepare for something like this. Like if you had a couple of days to really read up on the companies that you cared the most about, I can see how that would have made a difference.
CLIENT: Right.
THERAPIST: I probably would have. But you didn't and you couldn't have because you didn't know.
CLIENT: Right.
THERAPIST: And you look fine.
CLIENT: And rushing out the door I forgot to bring my nice folder to bring my resumes in, so I'm just going to have to go with like a plain manila folder stolen out of the supply cabinet.
THERAPIST: Go downstairs to the Kinko's and buy some. [00:10:00]
CLIENT: Oh, I could do that.
THERAPIST: Ten bucks. I mean it's a thought.
CLIENT: Right. [Pause]
THERAPIST: I mean of course you're not going to do it the way you would ideally want to but like you're really fine under the circumstances.
CLIENT: Yeah. [Pause]
THERAPIST: And [Pause]. I don't know, I guess, I'm not really sure, but I sort of tend to have like a haircut theory about things like this of which I mean like, you know, anyone else that can walk around after getting a bad haircut and going oh my god, I look terrible and awful and that kind of thing.
CLIENT: Right.
THERAPIST: But like anybody else, he doesn't look pretty much like us with a haircut that maybe isn't quite right or something, you know. [00:11:03]
CLIENT: Yes.
THERAPIST: I don't know, maybe it's a little like when - it's got to be like pretty (inaudible at 00:11:09) interviews, right.
CLIENT: right.
THERAPIST: I mean if they really care they're going to bring you out to the company and spend some more time with you.
CLIENT: Right. I mean typically the way these things go is if they really care they schedule an on-campus interview with their rep. for like two to three days following the career fair.
THERAPIST: I see.
CLIENT: And then after that level of screening then it's interview with the company.
THERAPIST: Yes.
CLIENT: If this career fair works the way the ones at MIT work, you know, god only knows.
THERAPIST: Right.
CLIENT: But yeah, at MIT the way the career fairs work is you get like two minutes face time with the recruiter. And then the two to three days following the career fair they interview everyone who wasn't a complete dud; 15 minute interviews, and then depending on the company either a phone screen or an interview at the company next.
THERAPIST: I see.
CLIENT: And so I just have to be, you know... [00:12:01]
THERAPIST: To like show up.
CLIENT: ...not a dud.
THERAPIST: Be personable and not be a dud, yes.
CLIENT: Yes. But I don't know.
THERAPIST: How might you be a dud? What are you concerned about there?
CLIENT: I don't know. I still have a whole lot of shame over the fact that I only had like a 3.4 GPA out of my team, which on a five point scale; not a four point scale. And, you know, I got a C minus in the class I took last spring because I screwed up and like completely bombed the final project.
And so my GPA itself is a 3.75 on a four point scale which is still better than my undergrad GPA, but still not stellar but still like a B plus which I don't know.
I'm also older than the typical student. I'm 31 and just finishing my Masters, so that. You know I just feel like anyone looking at me would be like what the hell have you done with your 20s? Like you've done nothing impressive, why should we hire you? [00:13:11]
[Pause]
THERAPIST: Or maybe they will talk to you for a few minutes and decide very different from what you would about yourself that there are like plenty of reasons they would want to consider hiring you, you know.
CLIENT: Maybe. [Pause] I don't know, the last two jobs I had, and even coming to Brown for all ten of what I view as acts of desperation. That, you know, I put your resume out there to a gazillion places. I applied to a bunch of schools and I went with the only one who would take me. [00:14:01]
I don't want to end up doing that again because, you know, these were all horrible, miserable experiences.
[Pause]
THERAPIST: Each of the jobs?
CLIENT: Yes. I mean so in lectures you can. I got (inaudible at 00:14:18) my teacher program, and that was a miserable experience, but not because I took the job out of desperation.
THERAPIST: Right.
CLIENT: I actually had three companies to choose from, but like my boss was a raging maniac with anger management problems, you know.
THERAPIST: Right. (inaudible at 00:14:34).
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: You know I don't think we're trying to (inaudible at 00:14:37)
CLIENT: Yeah. We had an open plan lab with like desks pushed up against the four walls with like lab benches and electrical equipment.
THERAPIST: What kind of company was it?
CLIENT: It was a research - it was a private research organization that had a lot of public/private partnerships with like universities and government labs.
THERAPIST: Yes.
CLIENT: We were doing research. And the PI of our lab would just scream at and berate his underlings. So like about half the group were like professional like I am here as my job, and like half the group were grad students who were like I'm working on my thesis of this company. [00:15:15]
And he was just - he was horrible. He would scream and he would yell, he could call people names. And because it was an open plan lab...
THERAPIST: Everybody else could hear?
CLIENT: Yes. So when I left there I was looking for a job and I was kind of panicking. And I took the first job offer I got which was a small startup in the Square which was not a terrible place but, you know, it was, you know, a six person company all fresh out of college. No one had any idea how to manage.
The CEO was a medical doctor who was like I'm going to cure diabetes through like cell phone apps. Like he was brilliant and innovative, but he had no idea how to fit with people or how to manage people. [00:16:06]
THERAPIST: That's the guy?
CLIENT: Yes. And the technical lead had just graduated from MIT and had never had a job before. Now he was CTO of this friendly - it was - and I'm not a programmer. I took this job because I can program in a pinch. But I couldn't find an "A" job that would hire me and I needed a job.
THERAPIST: I see, yes.
CLIENT: And then when I got fed up with that because I'm really not a programmer and I didn't want to be in programming and Java kills brain cells, you know, I did another job search but a lot of companies...
THERAPIST: Wait, I'm sorry, what you didn't like about that job was basically it was a programming job. And thought you can do that it's not what you want to do.
CLIENT: It's not what I wanted to do.
THERAPIST: It's not what you find interesting?
CLIENT: I didn't believe in the mission of the company. He was a good guy but a terrible manager.
THERAPIST: Yes.
CLIENT: I was thrown in the deep end managing interns and I had no idea what I was doing. And so like every day at work was just a struggle to get anything done. [00:17:05]
THERAPIST: Yes.
CLIENT: But by that point, you know, when I was in Germany working in research, I went in because the person who recruited me said that they needed a hardware engineer.
But once I got there my crazy PI was like no, no, no you need to work on this Java programming crap.
THERAPIST: Oh no.
CLIENT: I had never done any programming before outside of, you know, my one required CS class to get my degree.
THERAPIST: Oh really?
CLIENT: So by the time I started looking for a job after, most companies that were hiring architects were like well you've been out of school for three years and you haven't had a job doing architecture, you've been a programmer. What practical skills do you have?
THERAPIST: Right.
CLIENT: And so I took the only job I could get which was at Celluon which was another nightmare of, you know, I was in South Carolina. It was the kind of place where, you know, you could see, you know, probably about a fifth of the cars in the parking lot had confederate flags. [00:18:05]
THERAPIST: Mm-hmm.
CLIENT: You know, I once overheard someone in the lunchroom telling one of his buddies that, you know, women are nothing but three holes to fuck.
THERAPIST: Oh god.
CLIENT: It was really - it was a horrible, horrible work environment for many reasons. You know I was in the Architecture Department which was kind of at the top of the food chain, but we did our own production and manufacturing in-house.
THERAPIST: Mm-hmm.
CLIENT: And all of our technicians, it was very clear. The engineers were all White or Asian and the technicians were all Black and Latino. And there were all kinds of class and race issues like I heard someone...
THERAPIST: And (inaudible at 00:18:41) issues too it sounds like?
CLIENT: Oh yeah. You know like one person I heard using the N-word at work in the factory in a group of, you know, Black and Latino workers and there were no consequences. No disciplinary action, no HR; nothing.
THERAPIST: Wow. [00:19:00]
CLIENT: It was just...
THERAPIST: It was horrifying.
CLIENT: But at least it was a job in my field. But yeah, after a year I tried to quit and my boss - well there had just been a massive reorganization of the department and this woman was promoted to manager of my group like two months before I decided I had had enough; I needed to quit.
And she begged me not to quit because she had already had, you know, 40 percent turnover since she became manager. And in the previous year when a man had been manager the group had 80 percent turnover. And she was like I cannot have more people adding to my turnover. Cody, please don't quit.
So, you know, it wasn't just me having problems with this job.
THERAPIST: Yes, clearly. Do you like the work at all?
CLIENT: I liked parts of the work. Some of it was like - like the aerospace industry is very technically conservative. [00:20:03]
Companies that are buying - I was working in the group that did telecom satellites, so we were selling satellites to like digicom companies like cable TV stations, that sort of thing.
THERAPIST: I see.
CLIENT: Satellite TV. They didn't want satellites that didn't have a long flight heritage so there is no new design; no new innovation.
THERAPIST: I see, yeah, yeah.
CLIENT: I don't know if you're buying a $20 million, $30 million satellite, I mean you don't want anything new going on if you're going to test it.
THERAPIST: Right.
CLIENT: But I mean that led to lots of pathologies. Like the fact that the batteries were used in our satellites had like a known 7 percent chance of exploding on the launch pad because they are sensitive to the vibrations of rocket launch.
THERAPIST: Right.
CLIENT: And these batteries that we were using were signed in the 1970s and they were the best of the best in the '70s, but there have been new batteries designed.
[Crosstalk]
CLIENT: And, you know, companies like SpaceX which are privately funded and are just doing research, are using these batteries and they're getting much better results, but those don't have a 20-year flight heritage. [00:21:17]
THERAPIST: Right.
CLIENT: So that was frustrating.
THERAPIST: Sure.
CLIENT: I mean there were parts of the job that I really enjoyed. I think my favorite part of the job was on the production line, whenever any part failed a test someone from my group would be called down to the factory, you know, which was across the street from the R&D; Building where we worked.
And we would supervise the technicians and give them, you know, troubleshooting instructions trying to locate the source of the (inaudible at 00:21:45) failure and determining, you know, do we need to just replace, you know, one resistor or do we need to scrap the whole port or, you know, whatever.
That was a lot of fun, the kind of diagnosing problems and figuring them out. So yeah, and some of the analysis stuff was interesting enough. [00:22:06].
THERAPIST: Mm-hmm.
CLIENT: You know as with any job there was a lot of drudgery and a lot of like stupid we have to do this to CYA.
THERAPIST: Yes.
CLIENT: Yes. But anyway, I told her I wanted to quit and she was like please, please don't. I was like I cannot deal with living here anymore. And she was like well you could telecommute from Providence.
So I moved back up here and I telecommuted for a year and then, you know, the economy kind of crashed and a bunch of clients cancelled their contracts and they were like yeah, I don't need you any more, bye-bye.
THERAPIST: Yeah.
CLIENT: So I put a year out of work basically, being depressed and miserable. I applied to Grad School; applied to, you know, a couple of programs, applied to two teaching programs to get an M-Ed thinking I might want to teach high school, but didn't get accepted to either of those.
THERAPIST: Oh.
CLIENT: And I applied to the Providence Teacher Residency and they decided I was overqualified. [00:23:04]
THERAPIST: Thanks guys.
CLIENT: Yeah, I think they were looking for people who had like degrees in English or History.
THERAPIST: What is - I don't even know what that is.
CLIENT: Providence Teacher Residency is a program geared specifically - it's like Teach for America except that instead of just doing three years they really want to retain people in the teaching profession.
So if you get in you get - you get classes that (inaudible at 00:23:30) and earn an M-Ed and earn your Teaching Certificate and do a teaching practicum all in one year. And then you have two years as an apprentice teacher in Providence Public Schools.
And then you're guaranteed a job for the next two years after you're done with your student teaching, so it's a really good program. But I think what happened was they were looking for people who don't really have marketing skills, like people with like a Bachelor's degree in Physics. Like what the hell are you going to with that unless you go to Grad School? [00:24:01]
THERAPIST: Or even in Art History.
CLIENT: Or in Art History or in English. But the year I applied they were particularly desperate for Math and Science teachers.
THERAPIST: I see.
CLIENT: But with a degree from Harvard, if I decided I didn't want teaching I guess I could...
THERAPIST: There were plenty of other things you could do.
CLIENT: But I was a higher risk of walking away from one of your options. So that's how I ended up at Brown. And so it's just been this pattern of like taking whatever I can get, and I don't - I don't want to do that again. I want to have choices but I'm not sure I actually have the chops for it.
THERAPIST: Well yeah, I could understand why you wouldn't have any confidence for this round of job searching, because it hasn't worked out the way you wanted it before, as often as you're miserable.
CLIENT: Yep.
THERAPIST: That's (inaudible at 00:24:56)
CLIENT: I know our time is almost up.
THERAPIST: It is almost up.
[Pause]
THERAPIST: But I guess it sounds to me like what you're kind of worried about is that something is going to happen - job search is going to clarify that either going to make you feel really bad or be really shaming or it's lead to somewhere you're really unhappy. [00:26:01]
CLIENT: Yep. That's much more concise than my last, you know, 20 minutes of verbal flailing, but yes.
THERAPIST: Well but...
CLIENT: It is an accurate summary.
THERAPIST: You were showing it. I was just saying it I think.
END TRANSCRIPT
