TRANSCRIPT OF AUDIO FILE:
______________________________________________________________________________
BEGIN TRANSCRIPT:


COUNSELOR: This is Interview Number 15. 1971, Client 0729-107.


(Audio break).


PATIENT: Especially the exterminators that were over here yesterday. Yeah, (inaudible at 00:30)


COUNSELOR: DDT, that's a good description. What I understand they do is steaming the walls of the building there. 


PATIENT: Oh.


COUNSELOR: Yesterday it was still bad.


PATIENT: But still, even about the radiator, you see lots of water. How did you get the water? 


COUNSELOR: The water?


PATIENT: Sure, that's radiant it's water. The water circulates. The steam circulates. Well, the idea is that somehow the air in the building over there has tunneled over here, but not through that.


COUNSELOR: Not through this, no. Through the wood, through there, coming out of the vent.


PATIENT: Oh, the vent. Oh, my. Gosh, I've got April-itis. (Inaudible at 1:20) It's that time of the year, Jacquelyn. How are you coping so well? How do you do that? Do you get April-itis?


COUNSELOR: Well, I put my head down and keep moving.


PATIENT: Especially if you were in private practice, April would be the classic large group.


COUNSELOR: Yeah. There's something about the grayness and the bleakness and  - 


PATIENT: And no Christmas trees to look forward to. Wow. The thing that I guess is really tough is the child when April-itis hits me and I get very aggravated at the children. Yeah, they're small. Susan and I were talking last night. I'm not sure that we're not - that we're not too directive with the children, not too hard on them when they're little things. We're getting ready; we're going to Lake Eerie. Here's our spring holiday: We're going to Lake Eerie, Cleveland, because it's the only place in Ohio that's close enough that has a Holiday Inn with a pool inside. [2:36] 


COUNSELOR: Keen.


PATIENT: That's how we got to Lake Eerie. Let's have a great time in Lake Eerie but... So we're going to Lake Eerie over the weekend. The closer the weekend got, the more I began to dread it, because it's a matter of sitting in this Holiday Inn, trying to eat meals with the kids running around and throwing their food or whatever and just being really untied.


COUNSELOR: Sounds like it doesn't feel like a vacation  - 


PATIENT: No, it doesn't. That's what I was saying. It's really - the reason I haven't gotten very excited over this trip is that I can just see the hours, piss hours, spent with the kids either banging around a lobby or running around here or running around there, and me feeling very responsible for them so that they don't get into mischief, and that doesn't seem like much of a holiday, very much of a holiday, feeling responsible. And yeah, I don't know if it's all my fault or if it's all my hang-up or if part of it resides in them or if part of it is just that I have trouble with children that age. But they do run around and they do screaming. You know, and the classic example is shopping. Shopping is always a (inaudible at 4:00) well, always get mad once or twice when we're out shopping, because they're running around and they're playing with the mannequins and things like that. Intellectually I think cool, why shouldn't they? They're curious children, and in the gut it still is the idea that that doesn't belong to me and I don't want to have to purchase that.


COUNSELOR: Yeah.


PATIENT: And I don't know how to resolve those problems. You know I - it comes out that we are pickier at the children, and we really should be, and never have resolved those problems with the children.


COUNSELOR: Also sounds like constant pressure then to watch and check and be sure that they're not in this, they're not in that.


PATIENT: Yeah, and I don't really know how to get around that. You know, if I don't want it, then usually something happens like the store manager or something comes up and says, "Are these your children? Don't you want to try and keep them more controlled," or something like that. I dread that. It's rarely happened but that's what I'm dreading. I guess it's basically I feel uncomfortable shopping. I feel uncomfortable in restaurants. There's such a degree of impersonality and there's such a degree I feel as being on the spot in a restaurant. [5:16]


COUNSELOR: Yeah, so very much like, well, they're all looking at me and saying look at him, he can't control his children.


PATIENT: Right, right, and that doesn't sound fair to whatever, or me to let go but that's still what I feel. But I don't know what to - I don't know how to get rid of that feeling. I just know that that's what drives me up the wall and makes me really uncomfortable and making me riled up. I can sometimes coerce them into behaving, but you know why go to that extreme? That's kind of subjugating them and keeping them - not letting them be themselves.


COUNSELOR: You know, so the conflict's there too.


PATIENT: Yeah. I don't want them to sit there like little [old fountain arroys] (ph) with their hands folded. That's just not them. But I don't know how to get around the other thing. It sure makes - it makes these trips like this just seem like a fight from the time we enter the car and hassle with them about trying to get them to do something and then not wrestle in the car, to the motel, where we try and get them in. By that time everybody's just - the car's just bursting at its seams. And we'll all go into the lobby and I'll be trying to register, and they'll be checking out every little thing and pulling on the cigarette machine, picking up the ashtrays, and just sort of like they descended like locusts. You know, once we get in the room I feel okay, you know, they can just about do anything they want, but it's just when it's out in public that it seems very uncomfortable. Because I don't like to have to restrict them. I don't like to say, you know, stand over there and don't say anything, because after they've ridden for four or five hours they're going to be ready to (inaudible at 7:16).


COUNSELOR: Sounds like really being stuck between wanting to appear all right in the eyes of the public and also not to have anything damaged.


PATIENT: Right.


COUNSELOR: And wanting them to feel free. [7:32]


PATIENT: Right. And yet I know that wanting them to feel free is great, but I ultimately know, too, that if I don't restrict them, then somebody will. Somehow I know society will and I mean am I really teaching them the right thing if I put no restrictions on them. Okay, there must be some kind of fine line somewhere. They should put moderate restrictions or reasonable restrictions on that. I feel that they don't tear things, necessarily tear things up. It's the idea about property versus persons, you know. Who takes priority, the property or the persons? Intellectually, I would say the person, but when it comes down to the Holiday Inn and trying to register, it appears, it must appear to them, that I don't really care about what their needs are, but I do care about this place that we've come to, that they don't destroy it and that they don't get into trouble in it. 


COUNSELOR: And then just caring about them really.


PATIENT: Which is - you know, I guess it is.


COUNSELOR: Because you're trying to keep them from getting into trouble and beyond what they can handle.


PATIENT: True, yeah.


COUNSELOR: Like they don't know that if they pull the cigarette machine down they're going to have the whole Holiday Inn on top of them. I guess I'm wondering too, go in my [childbear to soul] (ph) for a minute, because it sounds like one of the things is kind of the expectations. We go to Holiday Inns and we know that they're not going to be able to manage them, but at the same time they're in that kind of situation where they have. And I was wondering if you're kind of expecting something of them that you really can't expect of them, which is to be able to maintain themselves after driving from here to Lake Eerie, to be able to contain themselves in that situation.


PATIENT: Right. So what are the alternatives that are available? I can leave them in the car for another 15 minutes - 


COUNSELOR: Or you could go in and register and Susan can run them up and down in the parking lot  - 


PATIENT: That's a thought. [9:56]


COUNSELOR: I mean little things like that that would give them what they need right then, which is just activity or something, and they'd probably be as happy investigating the parking lot as  - 


PATIENT: It would be a more solid - it's a thought (inaudible at 10:16). Hmm. Yeah, that makes sense. That's some of what we decided. We decided for this trip what we do is go out and also purchase some coloring books, some crayons, so that during - while we're waiting for the meal to come to the table, that we can color. We also decided that we'd cross off one meal, breakfast, in which everybody is kind of cranky and ravenously hungry and all this other stuff, that we do that in the room, and I guess, you know, we had taken the right course. I just - I guess the thing that bothers me am that I don't like to be so uptight about them. It really says something about me. I have never been particularly comfortable in either shopping or eating out myself, and I can't really pin down why.


COUNSELOR: Without them you mean.


PATIENT: Yeah, without them, just by myself, I feel very uncomfortable. I'm the type of person that shopping for me is standing there quietly, looking over the merchandise for about 30 seconds and seeing something that would do the job that I need to have done, going, picking it up, taking it to the salesperson and saying I want this, slapping whatever and getting it into the bag and walking out. Very much like that. And I guess a lot has to do with the hole-in-the-wall dollar shop that I had to shop in at home where it was a matter of grab things from somebody else and have kind of a fight over it, over this and that too. I never have felt really comfortable shopping. I may not like what they bring out. If I didn't like it enough I probably won't get it. But if there's even a chance if it's just acceptable I'll get it, even though it really doesn't turn me on much because I just don't want to make people wait on me. It's not easy to explain. [12:15]


COUNSELOR: In fact, it's some kind of a feeling about it that's just demanding something of someone and you have to get in some kind of a hassle about it if you don't just take what's there.


PATIENT: Right. That tends to be the way that I shop. And I'm sure that this - I get uptight from the time we leave the car until the time we get back in the car when we're shopping.


COUNSELOR: So even if they weren't there there's a whole feeling level that you have.


PATIENT: Right.


COUNSELOR: And they just add to it.


PATIENT: Right. Yeah, I know that they can sense that something is up. It was interesting we - after now that they've all, except Jimmy, become fairly much of age where they feel so untouchable in public. They used to do this thing of grabbing onto especially Susan when she takes them places and grab onto her when they were uncomfortable; it's a very natural thing. Well, she went and decided it's not evil in pushing them away or rejecting them, but she felt funny about it. She didn't want them grabbing onto her when they were supposed to be out there playing with the rest of the children during - as agreed (ph). And we finally discovered that part of that was her uncomfortableness, and she was uncomfortable around them and she didn't want the - even the responsibility for anybody else that might be uncomfortable too, being uncomfortable enough. And I think there's an element of that in both. But I'm saying it's just like you go somewhere and rather than being able to relax, to go somewhere puts you even under more stress, or it puts me under more stress. [14:09]


COUNSELOR: Yeah. It's not a relaxation technique.


PATIENT: Right. Like the first thing - like for instance, suppose we go out to one of the places where they do the skiing. Well, the first thing I do is my mind starts running through all the places that they could go to get into trouble, all the places that they could go that are dangerous, or who ever evaded from trouble to danger you know, like they could completely - I fantasize that they could completely immobilize the ski shop or something like that, run through and all the skis laying down there. And of course, "Where's their father?" I'm their father. And I don't feel very comfortable in things like that. And I would like to get over some of that feeling, that they're going to really mess us businesses. 


Then they do little things, like if they were running up and down in the parking lot and they bump into a car, that angers me so that, you know - that is a good solution but it's not the complete solution, because I'm uptight already and I'm expecting them to do something. And there's things that they do I just unload it on them, so I guess I'd like to get ride of some of the expectations and then always being uncontrollable. 


COUNSELOR: So it's a double-edged thing.


PATIENT: Oh yeah.


COUNSELOR: It's a very real thing that kids will - they won't get into difficulty, they won't be doing things, but the other is more of giving and - but I expect them to immediately, and the smallest thing is that that is the biggest thing. [16:00]


PATIENT: Right, right. That's very important because that's the way it happens is that there is no really - that I had - I know they must have a terribly distinct - a terribly difficult time trying to distort (ph) intentional values, because it's as horrendous for them to spill their milk as it is for them to fall down the stairs, and that doesn't make any sense at all. And so it seems like I haven't made - a pain threshold or a response threshold. They've seen the response threshold; sometimes it's lower than those are. They see that and they get full tilt; there's no modulation at all, there's no - well, Zack, I don't like for you to spill your milk, because that means I have to clean it up and then I'm more angry with him. When they fall down the stairs I get angry when I'm seeing that. I get very angry when they get hurt. It sounds like anger. I think it's really negative set, but it sounds like anger to us that (inaudible at 17:10) or act very mad and get mad at Susan because somebody gets hurt, and that really says that - they really need you when they're hurt, and for you to be angry, that doesn't help them at all.


COUNSELOR: That's the anger in life. You said what you do, but I guess that's - you said, well, you think the anger covers some other feelings anyway.


PATIENT: Yeah. It's all the feeling of oh dammit, now I've really got to come through.


COUNSELOR: The real demand  - 


PATIENT: It's a demand, right. It's another demand. Thirty seconds ago this demand wasn't on me and I felt better, but now I've got to function.


COUNSELOR: Because they really need you right now, and then there's this feeling that, well, maybe I won't be able to do that, but maybe I might. [18:13] 


PATIENT: Yeah, and maybe I'll feel I will. But then I know if I don't do it, then nobody will be able to do it, because I'm their father, I'm the one that's responsible. It's really kind of a rather crummy and crazy type of situation and it tends to alienate us. I mean like for instance Tyler gets up this morning. I felt bad because last night I read him their story, and then said it's time to go to bed, Susan was out at a meeting. And Daniel climbs in bed and Tyler climbs in bed, and Tyler's sitting there with his book open. And Daniel says, "Well, I want a new book," and I said, "Daniel it's time to go to bed." And I said, "Okay, Tyler." And he said, "Well, Tyler has his book up." And I said, "Okay, Tyler, put your book down now." And I said, "Tyler, it's time to go to bed, it's after 8 o'clock." "No." And I said, "Well, you tell me what you think we should do about this when I say it's time to go to bed and you say no," which I thought, yeah, that's a very, very logical, reasonable approach. I'm going to shift the responsibility onto him, see how he likes it. And he said, "I think you better go out and then let me read." You know, and I said, well, (inaudible at 19:37) And I said no, that wouldn't work. I said, "Oh, you know tomorrow night there's a baseball game on television. Do you want to watch it?" Worked like this (snapping fingers), closed the book, put it down. 


When Susan comes home I told her that experience. So she says, "Well, it sounds to me like you put down the idea of reading," and she's always wanted to read, always loved to read, but has always felt guilty about reading, much like you would feel guilty about listening to records or doing things like that, and reading, painting, whatever they enjoy and talked about that out back. (ph) (20:16) 


But it's difficult. I came home yesterday at lunch. The babysitter was there. Tyler came home early. Tyler I got home. Jimmy was cruising around. Daniel had rearranged all the furniture to make up what he calls a fort (ph). And he had taken all the dining room chairs and lined them up and all this stuff and oh, it's fun, but he was banging the paint off the dining room chairs gradually so that they looked like hell, and here's Tyler just balling. What had happened is that Susan had put his lunch in his lunchbox so he could learn how to - at home, learn how to take the food out of his lunchbox. He'd had trouble in school; he didn't get to eat the day before because he couldn't get his lunch out of his lunchbox. Well, he's balling. And I said, "What's wrong Maria?" And she said, "Well, he's supposed to have a sandwich but I can't find it." I said, Tyler, you know that lunch is in the lunchbox. "Yes." Well, why was he crying? His crying just really angered me. Evidently he may not cry at school. He's 6 years old. He's in first grade. He may not cry at school, so when he gets home he is often cry-ee (ph) for the first little while, and I guess that's fairly normal.


COUNSELOR: Yeah. It just built up and built up and he had to let it out.


PATIENT: Right. So the first little thing that comes up, like somebody didn't know where his lunch was, he just really cried, because I really was hard on him. I said, "Tyler, damn it, you know that crying is all right, but crying doesn't find your sandwich." And in these here directions I'm just really not sure. It makes me very uncomfortable. I don't want to - I really don't want to cause my children any more grief than I have to. I'm very conscious of this because my parents never - and another thing, must of tried to try, but they never could quite do the right things at the right time. 


COUNSELOR: And it sounds like you're terribly afraid that you'll do that too.


PATIENT: I'm terribly afraid that I'll do that, and Susan is too. Her parents always never could quite accept what she did as being good. They were always sending her to this lesson or that lesson, and of course to take lessons is one thing. To be sent to lessons because it appears that you're not acceptable the way you are is something that's completely different. Well, that's what they did to her. They gave her singing lessons and language lessons and flute lessons and tennis lessons and any kind of lessons except the one she wanted. She wanted swimming lessons. Well, they wouldn't give her that for some unknown reason. So that sort of says that I really don't want to screw up as bad as my parents. [23:03]


COUNSELOR: Right.


PATIENT: I don't think it's too much that I want my children to like me. I mean that's not - doesn't really appear to be too much of it, because I just don't want to mess them up. I don't want them to be going through some of the - I don't know, the kind of crap that I went through.


So that's what really bothers me. Did my statement yesterday say to Tyler, look Tyler; I don't think it's right that you cry? Did it say, look Tyler; I don't understand why you're crying? Because intellectually, I do understand why they're crying. What could I have done and it still is me? I can for a while be false with the kids and be this what I call the ideal parent - never raise my voice and very calm and very logical about everything - but then I reach a point where nothing could change. Like this morning I was tired when I got up and Tyler gives me this hassle about getting dressed and I didn't really fire it off. And Jimmy is hard to dress and, hehhhhhhh. It's that - you know that's great. So I'm really ready to start the day.


COUNSELOR: So then you're exhausted.


PATIENT: By then I'm just - I don't know, my day is just complete and now over because I've had to hassle with them so much. And I'm saying to myself, well, why show that to me when Tyler has to make the bus and if he didn't make the bus I have to take him. And it starts a whole very regimentated programmed day all long because it's already throwing you 30 minutes, 40 minutes behind. And I spend the rest of the day just breaking my neck to try and catch up. And I think, well, when does he take a little responsibility? When does he take on some of that? I didn't want to go to school this morning, I want to stay home and play, and I wasn't even prepared to understand why he might not have wanted to go to school. You know, I didn't really give a damn. If he didn't want to go to school, he had to go to school. There are other days when I've been realistic and I try to find out what it is at school that's bothering him. But I feel guilty, that's the thing. I can't react and say, okay, that's where I was. I feel so guilty about it. [25:29]


COUNSELOR: Like you can't say to him this morning, look, I can understand that there must be something that's making you not want to go or whatever, or you just don't feel like going today, but you have to go, that school is school and you have to go at this point.


PATIENT: Right.


COUNSELOR: But it sounds like you can't say that without feeling either guilty about it or feeling like that some way you can't just be that way, you have to make it to school, and then if you just have to make him go then you feel very guilty.


PATIENT: Right. Or should I necessarily feel guilty about losing my cool with him? I mean this, that, and the other questions. Should I just go ahead and react to him and say okay, just get dressed, I mean - I don't know. That's what really upsets me is I guess the fact that I don't accept losing my cool at all, you know, and it's just  - 


COUNSELOR: I can't (ph) imagine the worst parents would really need to start a little earlier, the ideal parents. 


PATIENT: Any idea what creates - in my more rational moments I rationalize the fact that the ideal parent would equip him at all to handle the outside world because people just aren't (ph) that considerate. Yeah, I may be hard on them, but the guy that is the floorwalker or whatever is even harder on them, you know. He just tells them to get out.


COUNSELOR: Yeah. It seems like what you're saying is that it upsets you to react in the way you would naturally react at that moment. Like you're in a hurry because you want to get going, but it seems to me that and because it upsets you, you can't just say it straight to them what they're going to give. You can't just say well look I know you don't want to go but I'm in a hurry and we have to get going.


PATIENT: Yeah.


COUNSELOR: So I'm feeling pushed so let's get going.


PATIENT: Right.


COUNSELOR: With feeling.


PATIENT: Yeah, that might be nice, to be very honest with them. Yeah, I guess both Susan and I are trying to be this ideal parent so hard that we really can't be us, because we feel for us to say, and I feel for me to say that look, I'm in a hurry this morning, get going, would be something like saying it's your turn to wait on me, it's your turn to be concerned about me, which I should be able to say to them, but it doesn't - it's probably that I don't, I just get mad. And I think the anger there is the idea that I am penting up some emotions. I'm really not shooting them straight by not telling them the truth if they want it. [28:29]


COUNSELOR: And you feeling like somehow you can't.


PATIENT: Yeah.


COUNSELOR: That's why you get angry.


PATIENT: Yeah, and therefore angry seems to be it. The thing that is, is that I think Tyler and Daniel are both reasonable enough that they can maybe hear it. 


The other thing is that I don't know what to do about the idea of in the springtime, in a house, because April-itis was never quite so bad until we got the children. But even though April was here, Susan and I could always do something like go to the drive-in or there would always be something like go out and walk around the shopping plaza just to get out. But with the children it's a matter of snow pants, boots, and coats. It's a matter of school tomorrow. It's a matter of a lot of things. So I suppose we cure our April-itis by going out somehow, by getting a babysitter and things like this. So that April-itis is much more acute with the children.


So what do I do? I come home after dinner, which is always a regular meal to worry about, you know, and the throwing of the food, and it's the pouting, it's the not eating. It's all those neat things that one reads about in ideal parent magazine. It's the how to handle with the ways that they handle them in ideal parent magazines and they're worse than our family. Then they get up from the table and they start to the living room. And of course Jimmy is restricted to the living room; he can't go down in the basement with us because the basement there are steep stairs and lots to get into, trouble down there. 


So they start playing at Jimmy's table and then they start running around, and then they start tackling each other, and you know it just drives me up the wall whenever they do that. So what I do, I say, okay, down in the basement, everybody go down in the basement if you're going to tackle. So I shuttle them off to down in the basement when I know it must make them feel like, boy, you guys don't want us around, but I don't want them around. I really don't want them around.


COUNSELOR: When they're like that.


PATIENT: When they're like that. And yet I know I don't want to put down that behavior. You know, that's all. You have to be able to laugh some; you have to be able to tackle some and to play rough. I really think you know - but it's a statement about their behavior. I don't accept their behavior. I'd like there to be just this - you know, for them to understand it just is the fact that if they're going to tackle, that they tackle in the basement, and I don't think it comes off that way. [31:08]


COUNSELOR: It sounds like what you feel like you're saying to them is I can't stand you get out of my sight.


PATIENT: Right.


COUNSELOR: And what you really want to say to them is, look, I need more peace and quiet. If you're going to do that, go down in the basement.


PATIENT: Right.


COUNSELOR: (Inaudible at 31:23)


PATIENT: Right. That's exactly right, and they just - I have to - I guess it would probably be better if I became more of a person. Because if I say I can't stand that, that's one thing. If I say will you cut out or go down in the basement or get out of here, that says something about the behavior with no - with an in (ph) personality on me. It has nothing to do with me; it's just that this behavior is not acceptable, so go down in the basement. 


COUNSELOR: In a way it's like you could be saying but come off with it, but it's like saying "Look, we've got a problem here. I need peace and quiet and you need to run. You know, how can we solve this? One is that I stay up here and you go down there."


PATIENT: Right.


COUNSELOR: And that's the kind of logical solution that doesn't say you're bad and that I'm bad.


PATIENT: Yeah. That's what I want to get away from are these types of things. If they feel like doing whatever they feel like doing with me, or even though we're in a restaurant, then I want them to be able to do that, and not that I have to sit there with them and watch them do it.


COUNSELOR: So do you really want them throwing the food around  - 


PATIENT: No, I really don't.


COUNSELOR: Whether you're there or not?


PATIENT: Right. If they're going to throw their food around I don't want to be there (laughing). That I guess is the point. I have to be there, don't I? No, I really don't want them throwing their food around the restaurant, and yet there's not a profound basis for not wanting them to throw it anyhow. Why is it custom, is it tradition, that we have not thrown food for a while. But there have been times - I can remember when Friday nights and my fraternity in college - which is kind of a sick situation, but anyway - on Friday nights we'd have no dates for dinner and that the sole purpose of that is to have this gigantic food fight, because the pledges came in on Saturday and cleaned up the dining room and the whole house really. 


And so we had this giant food fight. Now these were supposed to be people entering adulthood, and here they were swinging food across the room and it was great fun is the point. You can put it down from a social basis, but it was great fun and just food. The clowns in the circus throwing pies at each other, that's great fun. [34:03]


COUNSELOR: But they learn first not to throw them (laughing).


PATIENT: Yeah, well, maybe they learn first not to throw food. The other thing of course is that after they finish eating, you know, in the restaurant it's not like at home. You just can't all get up. You have to wait - you get the check and the girl's doing the figuring, so usually we had to let them get up and then they'd walk over to somebody else's table, and that always embarrassed me because I don't know whether these people are having this heart-to-heart talk and here's this kid going, you know, looking at them. 


It's a whole complex situation and really kind of drives me up the wall. I began to not want to go on things like this, not want to make the effort, because I can feel this great, great responsibility.


COUNSELOR: (Inaudible at 35:03) seemed really pressed down by it (inaudible at 35:07).


PATIENT: Let me clarify something. You asked did I really want them throwing food. Well, no. As a matter of fact, if I had my druthers I really wouldn't. I don't know. Yeah, I guess actually what I wanted to do is - I'd like for them to feel pretty good about themselves as people. You see I'm just beginning to come around to feeling okay about myself. Not that I'm good or bad. Not that I am perfect or make a lot of mistakes. These are not relevant terms, because I do make a lot of mistakes and I'm good sometimes maybe in baths (ph) even though those words don't mean much, but I feel fairly good about myself. I accept mistakes along with the good moments, and I want them to have those feelings too. You know, that's why I want them to feel free.


COUNSELOR: So that it sounds like if you want any kind of correction of behavior in a way, it's going to make them feel bad about themselves. 


PATIENT: I don't want it to. It will? You think it will?


COUNSELOR: No, I think maybe it all depends on how you do it.


PATIENT: Yeah. [36:25]


COUNSELOR: I mean if you decide, okay, if they start throwing food in the restaurant and you call them little bastards they're going to feel different. But if they start throwing food at you, and maybe there it gets too embarrassing and you can't deal with it. But afterwards you can even sit down and talk about how embarrassed you feel, that this is real embarrassing to you and you don't want them to throw food and this, that. But that stuff's going to happen when you go to a restaurant, you have to think of something else.


PATIENT: Yeah.


COUNSELOR: But it's like - and I feel like you're saying this by somehow to - and that's why it's hard to do because you feel like you're restricting them, making them feel bad about themselves.


PATIENT: Right. But it's like it's just a big hassles at mealtimes and going to bed and getting up, and in those periods I feel very much like I subjugate them. I give them no freedom. They have no options. Like for instance, if I want to stay up and see the Dick Cavett Show, there's nobody standing over me saying you can't see the Dick Cavett Show. I know too that if I stay up too late to watch the Dick Cavett Show that I'm going to feel cranky in the morning, so sometimes I do and sometimes I don't. 


But they don't have the option and I wonder if that's quite fair. I tell them when they go to bed and I tell them when it's time to put the books down, and I feel very much like a dictator, like someone who's circumvented their freedom. They have no right to make the choice. I feel sometimes like they'd - if I let them go ahead and read the books they'd go to sleep in five or ten more minutes anyway because they're tired, but I'm not really sure. And then yet the subjugating them, giving them the statement you have to put the book down, eliminates all choice of theirs. I guess I feel like they must seem like they're captured little beasts.


COUNSELOR: (Inaudible at 38:49) to let them choose, give them some leeway anyway. [38:53]


PATIENT: Yes, time his naps, whether they should take a nap in the afternoon or whether they shouldn't. Well, if they don't, sometimes they're fussy at night. If they do, usually they're better and they can stay up a little later. You know, it's the whole idea about where am I going, why am I doing it, am I doing it right, and am I doing it as well as I possibly could, and am I really making these little people who are just - you know, I thought of Tyler as a picture of a teenager because he's really quite rebellious about a lot of things. But conversely, there's such a wide spectrum. You look at what's happened and the stock generation of children that grew up with all the freedom has a great deal of difficulty taking on any responsibility, and it's so hard to know what to do. I just - 


COUNSELOR: Like there's that little pun; I mean there's the message that there's the child is always on top; and the authoritarian, the parent is always on top; and in the middle one you're kind of trying to work things out. And it seems to me the important factor is that both the child and the parent have the chance to be in there as people, and that's what I - guess I feel like things like saying look, I need a little peace and quiet; that's putting you in there. And the child needs the activity, so that's his plea, and then how do you work out? (inaudible at 40:44). [40:44] 


PATIENT: Yeah, because basically why are we so upset at bedtime? Well, if I really tell them the truth I guess it might be better. I need for them to be in bed because, damn it; I need to do some things. I need to do some reading. I need to do some writing. I need to do other things than be messing around with them. In the mornings when they get up I need for them to get dressed on their own because we all have to get up. If they don't pull their share, then that means that it just blows the morning. The meal that I don't understand in the morning about it, except that I want to eat, and I want to eat it in some kind of frame of comfort, and when I have to hassle with them that disrupt that comfort. Is that all right? Yeah, I guess we haven't been too terribly honest with them. 


COUNSELOR: (Inaudible at 41:50) What are their needs that they're acting out in terms of having them do this and how can you resolve it? Maybe they'd be happy to eat someplace else.


PATIENT: God, Jacquelyn, I just would never do that. Either that or just it's a hell of a great American idea, like what better time with grandmother bringing you all the turkey. How could you ever hack that? Oh, they might want to eat someplace else. Suppose they wanted to eat someplace else and I kind of wanted to be with them. What would happen then? I'd have to go eat where they're eating.


COUNSELOR: Well, you might go join them and then feeding them or they might say they'd like to come in and eat with you.


PATIENT: That's an interesting thing.


COUNSELOR: It's like all kinds of possible solutions come to mind when they're sort of thrown open, very clear with each line.


PATIENT: Yeah, that would really help though. There are people that make a decision. Susan tells me that I give them too much - too many decisions to make and the fact that I let them decide whether they really feel tired enough to take a nap. If they don't feel tired enough to take a nap I think it's wasteful for them to have to be toddled off to bed, 6 and 4. But conversely, there are things that Susan needs to do and things that I need to do that we used to do while they were napping and they can't demand us at those times. [43:28]


COUNSELOR: So they can go off and be by themselves, but don't have to go to bed.


PATIENT: Right, right. I guess if we were honest with them and said look, you don't have to take a nap, with conversely I have some things that I have to do, then that might be better. It happened yesterday, but once again, it never kind of works out like the ideal parent magazine says it's supposed to work out. The child is supposed to say, "Oh yes, yes, I can understand that you need some time to yourself and that's fine, Daddy, I will play and you do your thing." You know, it never works out that way because I - on Tuesdays I'm in charge of babysitting from 12 to 3 and getting the clothes folded up and Jimmy to take a nap after I've fed them, and so I did all of those things and I was getting the last load of clothes and then after I have to read to them. Then Tyler said, "Daddy, you haven't played hockey with me in a long time." Well, he's right, I hadn't played hockey in a week with him and you know I felt very guilty about that. And I didn't play hockey with him at that time and I still felt guilty because he was right. And then I said, well, Tyler, I have some things that I have to do. And he said, "When are you going to play hockey with me?" And then I didn't answer him. I couldn't give him a direct answer a little more or anything else. I usually try and answer that, and that really puts me under a lot of pressure. [45:09] 


COUNSELOR: Yeah, feeling somehow I've got to get this in somewhere.


PATIENT: Yeah. Let's see, you know, let's go through my little appointment book. Tyler, you have an appointment with me on the 3 to 4 and want to play hockey and I just - that doesn't make me feel very good. It makes me feel guilty; well, am I doing enough with them, for them, and this other entire thing. So that is a very, very difficult situation to be in, because ultimately, I guess I feel guilty of the way I am in restaurants with them, the way I am, and I've given them nothing to really affirm sitting in a restaurant eating. It's not any fun for them and there's nothing for them to do except to look at this big stack of food and to try to put away as much of it as possible. So that I really don't know how to handle it and I get scared because, like I said, I just feel like I'm not handling it well. And I think this is the reason that Susan and I went through the idea about whether we should put the two older ones into therapy. I mean you know, they're, by other standards, by the standards of modern life, they're fairly well adjusted. They're okay, fairly okay. They have their problems but they also seem to be able to handle them fairly well. They don't seem - either one of them seem particularly autistic or have any problems like that. I guess what we were trying to do was to shift the responsibility. Now we're on to somebody else, but at least have somebody look at him or her and tell us that [they got the road test.] (ph) [46:57] 


And it has always been true with Tyler. Tyler had had three seizures, which I'm sure you know is not uncommon. Perhaps 20 percent of the children have seizures (ph). It may be higher actually. Of course you never - there's so quick and self-limiting (ph) that like nobody like really ever even knows. But anyway, he had two seizures. Well, after the second one we went for an EEG. And the EEG on a child - he was 3 years old and it's just hard to tell him to - to end up giving him a lot of suppressants and stuff to put him to sleep so they could run the EEG, plus the chloral hydrate that they use tends to obscure some of the waves on the EEG too.


So it appeared that he was - that the EEG tracings were completely normal so he didn't have a focus, like some kind of brain damage so that it was an epileptic type of seizure situation. They never have had him spontaneously. Well, you know, when we came up here we took him to the neurologist, and because of his history of that they retained him on his phenobarbital and all this sort of thing. They saw the EEG tracings. Then Susan asked the question: Is he retarded? He was slow to talk. He still had - he doesn't talk as plainly as I do to you, but I don't talk as plainly around home as I do when I'm talking about personally. I get very lazy with my language. 


So that we - especially with him, we've always sought some kind of authoritarian okay; you know, yes, that he's fine, he's normal.


COUNSELOR: So there was a kind of overhanging anxiety that, well, maybe there's something wrong. [49:09]


PATIENT: Right. And you know the thing is, is this: It's interesting, because I can sit and not say anything to anybody for 10 or 15 minutes, just really mulling over some of the things that's happened to me during the day. He does that and we automatically think he's schizophrenic. He gets the brunt of it, Daniel gets less, and Jimmy is probably the ideal child because people won't put him under a microscope and we won't put him under a microscope at all. But Tyler has lived most of his life under a microscope and we have watched every one of his moods and things. 


And this business about crying; you can intellectualize why he cries when he comes home from school, but that doesn't help you. You wonder if every 8 year old cries when he comes home from school; if that's normal behavior, if he really is upset or deeply disturbed. You never know where quite to hang. And at the end thinking you (inaudible at 50:22) care for him and all this sort of thing. So there is that anxiety.


COUNSELOR: Yeah, the constant worrying and anxiety. It sounds like (inaudible at 50:33) again. It's probably the first child anxiety type thing, and then you see another one go through this, and then the x-ray, and wondering, well, did the convulsions have some effect or is there something, especially mom.


PATIENT: Yeah, right. Some of it, it's not like mostly like any of the ideas when you talked about before, because this seems such a direct opposite to what we have talked about before. So I'm going to ask you to get back on the idea that we could not - that God wasn't going to let us have perfectly normal children. You know, they were all going to be somehow deformed, and since they came out and they had five fingers and five toes and all the other fixtures that are necessary, they had to be mentally deformed in some way, so that's the kind of sickness that's grabbed on in that regard. 


I think we're getting over some of that, that real sickness. Tyler making quite a success of himself in school. He started off in what they call a non-reading group and now he's into a reading group and he's very proud of reading. [51:51] 


So I guess what I really would like to do is to affirm him and to be able to live with him and live with him now, because if I can't live with him now, then when he gets another seven years of age on him, it will be all over, I mean, you know. I don't really want him at 13 or 14 to be smoking grass or whatever, but once again, you know, as a means to alleviate some of the problems that he's having at home - and then what happens is that we do look at people around us though. I know this couple right now that have two girls and a boy, but the girls are teenagers. One of them has already run off with this boy, he's 15 years old, and that can scare the hell out of you. And you look at that and you think, well, there goes Tyler. Already at 8 years old he's ready to leave home.


COUNSELOR: So that's got a weight of responsibility that's really scary if I don't do it right, well, look what can happen.


PATIENT: Right.


COUNSELOR: And what's right  - [53:15]


PATIENT: Right, exactly. If I don't make him feel okay at home, then he will eventually just, in order to counteract that - will do something (inaudible at 53:31). And you know it's not uncommon to have people honestly tell you that the reason they got married, especially women, was to get out from under some of the problems that they had at home. Well, it would be great if the majority of those marriages that they were talking about were working out well, but they're not working out well either because they have nothing in common with the other person except that they got out from what was going on in the home, so out of the frying pan, into the fire is exactly what they did, and that's the kind of drastic things that can happen. You can kind of ruin somebody's life, and then you wonder why you're involved in this mess. Because there is an actuality and it's very real for me at least. I don't want to really screw him up by something that could have been helped, and that's a tremendous feeling, you know, and it feels funny. 


Because somewhere, even though I always like to paint my past as being sordid - I don't understand that either - why I like to - why it feels good to paint my past as being so sordid. Somehow something must have clicked because I have dropped out. I think I do know how to love. Something's got to click over there. And it always feels a little bad because I guess the reason I paint my past so dark is the fact that I would like to take all the credit for where I am and for what I've done. I didn't need anybody; I did it on my own, and that probably not even true (inaudible at 55:30). School right. And that I spent a hell of a lot of time talking with Susan and going back and forth with Susan over things we do with the children, how we relate to them, how we talk to them, how angry I get especially. 


You know, Tyler started this little mechanism where he's "I'm scared, I'm scared," and he's goes like this, you know, and I go, crap. Man, I've really blown it already. One of these days he's not going to say I'm scared any more, he's going to say forget it, old man, you can't scare me any more, so this is what I did. [56:08]


And yet at the other end of the spectrum I want them to be able to go out and to function. I want them not to be so tied to us. I don't want to be such the ideal parent that they can't function on their own.


COUNSELOR: Coddle a little (inaudible at 56:36) 


PATIENT: All right. Well, there's something for you. It's funny. I think that's the first time I really talked in depth about Dan and turned over my kiddies.


COUNSELOR: And that's something you're really living with too.


PATIENT: It really is. It seemed less important now in the fact that getting myself together seemed more important. I still thinking getting myself together is probably more important to them. I think the better I feel, the more I'm able to really have some interchange and react with them. There are a lot of things - just that there are a lot of things that come up that it would be interesting to pursue, like why do I always have to feel like I have to paint my past so dark? I don't understand that at all.


COUNSELOR: Sounds like that's really hitting you right now, and it wasn't as dark as  - 


PATIENT: I don't even know. I painted it so dark so long that I don't even know that it's not all just a fantasy; that I always wanted to feel like I was the little pauper (ph), the poor child, feel sorry for me. I'm kind of ready to get out of some of that though so I'm not so connected and that I'll do fine. I guess I'm feeling that I'm almost ready to let go of that. Before I let go of it completely I'd like to know why I did it. Well, we'll see you next week.


COUNSELOR: Okay. [58:31]


END TRANSCRIPT
