<font size="4"><b>Chapter II: There is No One to Whom He May Appeal</b></font>

(H. G. WELLS)


The Board of Control had some responsibility. When
first a commissioner had visited me in hospital, the visit
brought a serious conflict in my mind. I had much to
criticise but I did not wish to criticise outside of the hospital.
Neither did I wish to give false answers, so I prayed that he
would not ask anything I could not answer. He came in,
looked around and said I had a nice room to which I agreed.
I had a nice room. I was a voluntary patient at the time
and he gave me the good advice to set a limit to my stay.


Towards the end of 1942 I had a second visit from a
commissioner and, on this occasion, I had no conflicting
loyalties. I wished, on behalf of suffering patients and on
behalf of myself as a frustrated and imprisoned lunatic, to
protest violently against conditions as they were. The
thoughts of months, the thoughts of weeks, even the
thoughts of one over-active day in the life of an over-burdened,
imprisoned patient may not be easily passed on.
My flood of words came pouring forth to a seemingly
sympathetic commissioner. She soon withdrew with the
remark: "I think you would be better to write to me."
I thought it strange that, before a mentally disturbed patient
could hope for redress she must be able to express her complaints
coherently in a letter. It requires a sound mind to
compose a letter. The commissioner was sent to those of
unsound mind.


Perhaps the commissioner and I had different ideas of
the capabilities expected in the lunatic; but, as a student,

[p. <i>65</i>]

About this time nervous tension was greatly increased
because my father was ill. I was not allowed to go to see
him and all I have to record is that the notebooks of the
time were full of drugged ramblings.


In December, 1942, my father died at the age of seventy-nine.
His life had been long and active. The friends of
his generation had been passing on, one by one, into that.
realm of mystery which we call death. I felt no sadness
at his passing. I felt sorry to think that my problems of the
years of war had troubled his last years but I felt also that,
through the perplexities we were coming nearer to understanding,
and I believe that, in freedom from the body, his
spirit and mine were more nearly meeting. I felt the
happiness, imagination may be, which would be his on the
other side where a happy gathering would greet his arrival.
Although I had been brought up in the Christian faith I
did not see in death a meeting with Jesus a Saviour but a
happy family gathering of aunts and uncles and friends.


My father had, of course, been the relative responsible
for me and he had willingly undertaken payment of my fees.
I had, before his death, been decidedly resentful that anyone
should consider it needful to pay fees for me to be detained
longer away from normal citizenship. With my father's
death, the responsibility of next-of-kin fell to my brother
and the responsibility of payment of fees became mine.
My father's industry and his keen business mind ensured
that, even after his death, I did not need to have undue

[p. <i>66</i>]

I now remember little of life during the lengthy period
1942-1943. The impression of that period left after a year,
in another hospital was merely one of fear and unhappiness.
I was glad that I had record in diaries to bring me
back many happy memories of those trying months when
an active mind was seeking other contacts and finding
successive disappointments. Letters also helped to restore
my memories.


The Board Commissioner had not answered my letter.
This lack of written response was not sufficiently reassuring
to still the activity of my mind. I wrote again. Perhaps
the resulting stimulation of thought accounted for my
transfer from the boarding-house atmosphere of one part
of the hospital to a locked part of very ill people. From
there my appeals went to other possible authorities. One
thing for which I had always been grateful was the permission
to post letters in the pillar box outside the hospital grounds
even when parole for other actions confined me inside.


I made a first contact with the Member of Parliament
for our constituency. My letter received no immediate
reply. I made a first direct appeal to Moderator and
Moderator-Designate of the Church of Scotland. My letter
received no immediate reply.


I paid a visit to our family solicitor. I felt in need of
some further protection and understanding. I consulted him
about the "escape" method of which I had read in <i>Christina
Alberta's Father</i>. He said it did not apply in Scotland.


But I was in Scotland. By April I had come to realise
that my release seemed to be nobody's business but my own
or seemed to be the business of too many who were willing
to remain inactive in the matter. According to H. G. Wells,
if an asylum patient managed to escape and to live for

[p. <i>67</i>]

To run away as a criminal escaping from prison did not
accord with my idea of the character of myself, my relatives
or the hospital authorities. I therefore went homewhere
I felt I belonged. I left a letter for the doctor and for the
superintendent hoping they would understand my desire to
assume responsibility over my own life and allow me to
prove myself by the test I had set myself. I was taking,
consciously, responsibility for leaving the lunatic part
behind.


I arrived home for tea. My sister was disturbed to
learn that I had no permission and that I intended to remain.
She did not know what to do but allowed me to stay for
tea, intending to wait until my brother arrived to make
decision with her. Before he arrived there was a phone
message. I answered the phone but the voice at the other
end would not give me a message and insisted on speaking
to my sister.


I do not remember much about the peacefulness of that
tea-party but before very long a taxi was at the door with
two nurses to collect me and take me back. My relatives
evidently intended to take no action. I asked by whose
orders the nurses were sent. They said they were there on
orders from the Chief. I realised my way had not worked
out as I had fervently hoped. I accepted the reality of the
situationthe Chief's orders and relatives' will were still
the authority for the certified patient. The nurses were
definitely more agitated than the patient. They were in a
hurrythe mounting taxi fare being the main factor in
explaining their need for haste.


The same day or the next day I asked to see the Chief.
I was told he was on holiday. Any untruth will do for
mental patients so long as they can be made amenable to the

[p. <i>68</i>]

I wrote another letter to the Board Commissioner who
had invited me to write to her. At this third attempt I got
acknowledgment from the Secretary of the Board, informing
me that my letters had been received. They may have been
incoherent as I was expressing the pent-up indignation and
despair of the years of frustrations and imprisonment. I
have no copies.


I had written again to the Moderators of the Church.
The note which remains of the events of May, 1943, reads:
"Assembly week outbursts against injustice and complacency.
Health and life almost crushed out. Appeals to
church. Period of wild activity. Urge to get home.
Active week leading to visit home on Sunday, 16th May,
and imprisonment on Monday. I broke glass, broke wood
replacementwrote letters to try to find a suitable home.
On Tuesday I was allowed to the grounds."


The doctor had evidently seen my need to be active
but I had evidently used my activity not wisely but too well
for my notes record that I was again "shut inrefused
companybroke windowsroom shuttered."


Monday, 24thkept alone in my own darkened room
in disgracea week of lonelinessall thoughts censored."
My comment was that I was being punished for rebellion at
overlong treatment as a mental patient. My further comment
now is that the prayer-help from assembly gatherings
does not seem to have been of a peaceful nature.


The war was still with us. The turmoil of thought
was still with us.


I had written also to H. G. Wells to thank him for his
propaganda of 1925. I was pleased to receive his acknowledgment:

[p. <i>69</i>]

"I thank you for your letter and hope that you will
write to me again. The whole world now is incoherent
and mentally disordered. Everyone who can
achieve self-control is contributing to the recovery
of this disordered world.


Very sincerely yours,


(Signed) H. G. WELLS."


This letter reached me in August.


JuneJulyAugusta summer passing. By its end
I had come to the end of my resources in Edinburgh. I
could not get discharge and was ready to try in desperation
a new hospital, hoping that less anxious doctors might take
a fresh view of the situation and grant me discharge to a
freer life.


My letter to the solicitor shows that I was not voluntarily
seeking a new hospital. I had already made a suggestion
of taking lodging in Edinburgh or trying to make a
home of my own. I had realised that home tensions were
part of the difficulty meeting us.


In July I had written a letter to Mr M., solicitor. That
there was, working for me and against me, a group who
could consult each other had evidently annoyed the weary,
lonely lunatic.


My letter reads:


"Dear Mr M.,


From a letter this morning signed by M'K. &amp; K., I
gather that you also leave responsibility to Professor
Henderson. I note in the letter "we have been considering"
but I do not know to whom the "we" refers. The suggestion
of going to another home of detention is not acceptable
to me. I feel fit to be home at Kilmaurs when it is
ready to receive me.


Yours faithfully"

[p. <i>70</i>]

I still do not know how many suggesting minds were
included in that "we" but I know that I began to accept the
inevitable and to look forward with interest to the chance
of a new atmosphere where I might find a healthier outlook
on my case.

