



[p. <i>725</i>]
<font size="5"><b>First Person Account: My Schizophrenia</b></font>

<b>by Roberta L. Payne</b>


<b>The article that follows is part of the
<i>Schizophrenia Bulletin's</i> ongoing <i>First
Person Accounts</i> series. We hope that
mental health professionals — the <i>Bulletin's</i>
primary audience — will take
this opportunity to learn about the
issues and difficulties confronted by
consumers of mental health care. In
addition, we hope that these accounts
will give patients and families a better
sense of not being alone in confronting
the problems that can be anticipated
by persons with serious emotional
difficulties. We welcome other
contributions from patients, ex-patients,
or family members. Our major
editorial requirement is that such contributions
be clearly written and organized,
and that a novel or unique
aspect of schizophrenia be described,
with special emphasis on points that
will be important for professionals.
Clinicians who see articulate patients,
with experiences they believe should
be shared, might encourage these patients
to submit their articles to <i>First
Person Accounts</i>, Division of Clinical
Research, NIMH, 5600 Fishers Lane,
Rm. 10C-16, Rockville, MD 20857. —
<i>The Editors</i>.</b>


I am an unusual schizophrenic in that
I have a Ph.D. and have taught in several
universities. I am also a typical
schizophrenic of my generation (I am
46), in that both my mother and I
have been blamed for my schizophrenia.
Finally, my recovery from
alcoholism and clinical depression has
been essential for the recovery of my
mental health in general, for I have
what is called a "multiple diagnosis."


I first became ill when I was 22, and
I spent 3 months in a mental hospital
near Stanford, where I was a graduate
student. I was told that I had depression.
While I was in the hospital, I
was in searing psychic pain. It did not
help when the director of the hospital
said, "Roberta, you may have a
master's degree, but you are not master
of yourself." But it was my mother
who received the brunt of the blame, I
was encouraged to blame every negative
aspect of my childhood on her.
For instance, if I got bad grades in
high school, it was because she had
ruined my self-esteem; if I got straight
A's, it was because she was pushy and
domineering. I yelled accusations at
her (in Colorado) over the phone
when I was in that hospital; and then
when she was too hurt to come to
California to see me, my psychologist
said she was rejecting me. My father
was dealt with more summarily: I
was told that I might have to pay him
back what he spent on my education
(5 years at Stanford!) if I wanted to be
free of him.


When I left that hospital, I was no
better and no worse for the "talking
cure." Unable to hold down a job, I
moved in with my parents and lived
with them (angrily) on and off for several
years. I eventually hit a lull in my
illness and decided to get my Ph.D. I
spent ` year at Harvard and received
straight A's, but the cost to me was
enormous. I felt as though I was being
ostracized by the other students, but,
looking back, I can easily see how I
was so poorly adjusted that no one
would want to become my friend. I
suffered from anxiety and fear of the
future, and my drinking progressed
from social drinking to drinking myself
to sleep at night. The very first
thing I did when I woke up in the
morning was to smoke a joint of
marijuana and, smoking all day, I remained
high until I went to bed. All
that time, I was suffering from symptoms

[p. <i>726</i>]

One day I simply could not stand
my anxiety any longer, so I went to
Harvard's student health office and
asked to see a therapist. I was desperately
afraid. Only one therapist could
see me, and he could see me for only 5
minutes. He was on crutches because
of a tennis injury and was in a very,
very bad mood. He told me I would
have to make up my own mind about
whether I wanted to continue working
on my degree. And that was that! It
took me many years to see that I may
have been coloring that episode with
paranoia. After all these years, I simply
cannot tell you what happened
that day, except that I needed help
and may not have presented that
clearly.


I left Harvard after a year and went
to teach at the University of New Orleans
for several years. These were
years primarily of alcoholism and depression
(the alcohol temporarily killing
the depression) for me. I stopped
using marijuana because it made me
paranoid; in fact, I would have to say
that it made me the most paranoid I
have ever been, even more so than I
was with LSD. I spent 3 years in New
Orleans, years of alcoholism, with all
its symptoms.


The anxiety came back again. This
time I got a respite from it by returning
to Denver, my home city. The
only job I seemed to be able to get
there was typesetting. I worked the
night shift in a warehouse, and during
my coffee breaks I used to go out to
my car and quickly drink a whole bottle
of wine. I had to do that because I
needed steady hands for typing. During
those years I had extraordinarily
vivid visual hallucinations. For instance,
once while I was driving I visualized
the road full of dogs and cats
that had been run over but not killed,
and I had to work my way through
them in my car. One psychiatrist later
told me that was a symptom of advanced
alcoholism, but another said
he thought it was schizophrenia because
I had been drinking heavily just
before I drove that time, which was
true of my other hallucinatory episodes
as well. Another symptom I had
in those years that could have been
from either schizophrenia or alcoholism
was TV broadcasting. For instance,
my television and the people
at the TV station "forced" me to
watch the movie <i>Days of Wine and
Roses</i>. At such times it felt as though I
was not the only person in my living
room.


I thought that going back to get my
Ph.D. would take me out of all of
that, so I enrolled at the University of
Denver. Alcohol no longer helped me
get through the day. I taught after I
had been drinking, and I was unable
to write papers. Finally one night police
stopped (but did not arrest) me for
drunken driving. This gave me the
impetus I needed to call for help. I
joined Alcoholics Anonymous (AA)
and have remained sober ever since: I
had my 10th "birthday" last August.
Although I am an agnostic, I am able
to receive the help I need from AA,
which has a spiritual basis.


A couple of pleasant, active years
passed for me. Eventually, though, I
fell into a very bad depression, the
kind that hurts just to remember years
later. I thought of getting help. Perhaps
the student health center at Denver
University was better than the one
at Harvard. I realized that I could not
continue in that condition, so I called
them.


A psychologist named Dan saw me.
He was a kind and gentle young man.
In his office there was a huge, carved
wooden chair I could nestle in; from
this chair I spoke about my life. Dan
was a tremendously good listener, and
his questions challenged me. I learned
that dysfunctional traits could exist in
people who were deeply lovable, and
that it was not appropriate to blame
or call myself or others bad. Dan sent
me to the university psychiatrist, Ellen,
who placed me on an antidepressant
that has worked wonderfully. I
am on a minimum dose and have hot
been depressed again.


At the beginning of my last year at
Denver University, "feelings" began to
descend on me as they did at Stanford
years before. I felt distinctly different
from my usual self. I would sit for
hours on end staring at nothing, and I
became fascinated with drawing
weird, disconnected monsters. I carefully
hid my drawings, because I was
certain I was being watched. Eventually
I became aware of a magical force
outside myself that was compelling me
in certain directions. The force gained
power as time went on, and soon it
made me take long walks at 2 or 3
o'clock in the morning down dark alleys
in my high-crime neighborhood. I
had no power to disobey the force.
During my walks I felt as though I
was in a different, magical, four-dimensional
universe. I understood
that the force wanted me to take these
walks so that I might be killed.


I do not clearly understand the relationship
between the force and the
Alien Beings (alas, such a namel), but
my universe soon became populated
with them. The Alien Beings were
from outer space, and of all the people
in the world, only I was aware of
them. The Alien Beings soon took
over my body and removed me from
it. They took me to a faraway place of
beaches and sunlight and placed an
Alien in my body to act like me. At
this point I had the distinct impression
that I did not really exist, because I
could not make contact with my kidnapped
self. I also saw that the Aliens
were starting to take over other people
as well, removing them from their

[p. <i>727</i>]

The thought of going back to Dan
appealed to me. But I held back because
the Alien Beings were gaining
strength and had given me a complex
set of rules. The rules were very specific
and governed every aspect of my
behavior. One of the rules was that I
could not tell anyone else about the
Aliens or the rules, or else the Aliens
would kill me. Another of the rules
was that I had to become utterly,
completely mad. So now I was living
in a world of great fear.


I had a number of other symptoms
as well. I felt as though I had been
pushed deep within myself, and I had
little or no reaction to events or emotions
around me. Almost daily the
world became unreal to me. Everything
outside of me seemed to fade
into the distance; everything was
miles away from me. I came to feel
that I had the power to influence the
behavior of animals; that I could, for
instance, make dogs bark simply by
hooking up rays of thought from my
mind to theirs. Conversely, I felt that
certain people had the capacity to
read my mind. I became very frightened
of those people and tried my best
to avoid them. Whenever I saw a
group of two or three people, I was
sure they were talking about me.
Paranoia is a very painful emotion!
But when I saw crowds of people (as
in a shopping mall), I felt an acute
longing to wander among them, singing
hymns and nursery rhymes.


It wasn't until several months later
that I had the power to break out of
my secret world. One day I was sitting
at an AA meeting when I completely
lost contact with reality. It felt
as though an enormous whirlwind
seized me, and the pain was excruciating.
(Being in a whirlwind is not a
very good metaphor for that experience,
but I have trouble finding words
to describe it. ) When it was over, I got
in my car and drove home. It was difficult
to drive because I was only partially
aware of reality. I went to bed
and listened to the singing of a bird
outside my window. I was convinced
that as long as I was able to be aware
of the bird singing I would not lose
my mind. I realized that I could not
continue like this, so I called Dan.


First he sent me to Ellen, who
placed me on thiothixene. My symptoms
gradually subsided over about 2
weeks, and in the meantime I told
Dan about the Aliens and the rules. It
was terrifying, because I was convinced
I would be killed. Each session
I told him a little more, until finally I
had let him in on my secret world.


I got my Ph.D. about 1 year later,
with the help of many people at the
student health center. Some just listened
to me while I cried; and then
there was Dan, who, through weeks
and months of work, taught me,
among many other things, to love my
parents, especially my mother, again.


All of a sudden, the "real world"
was in front of me. I went to teach in
a university in South Dakota, but the
result was disastrous. Many of my
symptoms returned, and there was no
one like Dan there. I came to realize
that the quality of psychologists and
psychiatrists does vary greatly. I
barely finished the year. At the beginning
of the next academic year, I had
delusions and paranoia again, and all
of my minor symptoms. I was put in
the mental health ward of the small
local hospital, where I remained for 5
weeks, grateful that I no longer had to
stand in front of the students, who
terrified me. There were creatures
from 400 million (or is it billion?) light
years away who told me through their
brainwaves what an evil thing I was
and how they were going to persecute
me. This time there was something
new: I could not think properly, and
other people were aware of this. I
could not think my way through a
sentence. I got lost. More to the point,
I was slipping and sliding around
when I thought.


I formally withdrew from my job
and returned to Denver. This time my
convalescence has taken several years.
I have not worked for 3½ years, and,
to be frank, I am afraid at this time to
think of going back. I do, however,
lead a very rich life, in which both of
my parents, as well as many friends,
are included. I have furnished, and
take care of, my own condominium.
Best of all, I have published my dissertation
<i>The Influence of Dante on Medieval
English Dream Visions</i> and
have a translation from medieval
Italian, <i>The Elegy</i> of Madonna Fiammetta,
at the publishers; I am
currently working on a second translation.


I am now taking clozapine and am
very pleased with its effects, especially
on my paranoia. I find, however, that
the changes it brings — such as an increased
ability to question, to follow
maps, to hold intricate conversations,
and to be interested in things outside
of myself — are usually very subtle.


This is not the life I thought I would
live, but it is a comfortable one, filled
with kind people and the opportunity
to write.


The Author
Roberta L. Payne, Ph.D., received a
B.A. in Classics and an M.A. in Communication

[p. <i>728</i>]
