<font size="4"><b>Chapter 7: Reflections on Unearned Advantages, Unearned Disadvantages, and Empowering Experiences</b></font>

MELBA J. T. VASQUEZ


IT HAS BEEN AN interesting experience to take time to reflect inwardly
and examine the life experiences which I believe have influenced my
worldview and commitment to multicultural psychology and social
justice.


First, it is with mixed feelings that I am recognized as a "pioneer." I am
honored, of course, to be considered in this category. However, the old familiar
nagging feeling of doubt threatens; vestiges of the imposter syndrome
surface. The old fears, mostly quieted at this stage of my life suggest,
"They don't really know me, or they wouldn't have asked...." Nonetheless,
I will proceed <i>as if</i> I belong. It is what I have usually done, even when
those around me didn't think I belonged. Typically, what happens is that before
I or those around me know it, I do belong, even if grudgingly (on my part
and/or theirs)!


The <i>American Heritage Dictionary</i> defines a pioneer in part as "one
who ventures into unknown or unclaimed territory... An innovator in any
field." It was distressing to have entered the field in the late 1970s when so
little had been done in the field of ethnic minority and multicultural psychology.
Much progress has been made by many in the past three decades,
but we still have so much to accomplish. I am amazed that there are still so
few of us in this category of "pioneers."


We are asked to describe child and adolescent experiences that were in-fluential
in shaping our life experiences from a social, cultural, developmental,
economic, and/or environmental perspective. Those do indeed
shape our personal lives and professional identities. I have had the opportunity
to reflect on those key experiences for the past few months and have

[p. <i>65</i>]

<b>PRIVILEGES AND UNEARNED ADVANTAGES</b>


"Privilege" was defined by Cactus Pryor, a Texas humorist, as the belief,
feeling, and attitude that an individual has who was "born on third
base" and thinks that they "hit a triple!" This sports metaphor does indeed
capture the privilege we observe in White males born with the kinds of opportunities
and advantages that lead to feelings of confidence and entitlement.
There are many forms of privilege. It was only in the past decade of
my life that I realized that I too have had many privileges throughout my
life! The notion of "unearned advantages" also speaks to the notion of privilege
in society.


I grew up in a small central Texas town during the 1950s. I was the first
of seven children born to two firstborn parents. I was the oldest grandchild
on my mother's side of the family and the third child (but firstborn of the
oldest son) on my father's side. In other words, I had the privilege of a considerable -
amount of attention, adoration, and regard from my parents, large
extended family (including 16 aunts and uncles and all 4 grandparents plus
great uncles and aunts, second cousins, and so on!). I enjoyed what I wish
every child had. When I walked into a room, faces lit up (most of the time)! I
also grew up in a loving small community. The first 5 or 6 years of my life
were relatively safe; in retrospect, I grew up in a small college community
that was socially segregated. What an incredible experience of "unearned
advantages." I had no substantive contact with the White European community
until I entered first grade in the public school system.


Another instance of "unearned advantage" is that our parents, although
relatively poor, scraped money together to send me and my siblings
to the local Catholic parochial school for part of our elementary education.
That meant that I attended St. John's Catholic School from fourth through
seventh grade. Although the adjustments from public school to Catholic
school and then back again were challenging, several of my siblings and I
had the advantages of a small private school for a brief time. We had the
opportunity to develop good study skills, to develop the capacity to adjust
to different environments, and to know the special feeling that came from
attending a private school.


I consider myself very lucky to be born into a family where parents
were politically active in their local community. There was a unique empowerment
that came from being a participant of political rallies, voter

[p. <i>66</i>]

The attitudes on the part of my parents and their Chicano peers in our
community was that education was important. The organizations in which
my parents and their friends were involved were geared to fund-raise for
scholarships for Hispanic students and to further the education of Latino
children in the community. As a result of this influence, four of us in my
family have at least college bachelor's degrees, and three have technical associate's
degrees. Although we fought as children, we are very close as adult
siblings. Family is very important to all of us. What an incredible privilege
to have siblings who are all productive contributors to their respective communities
and with whom we all provide support for one another.


Expectations to achieve were not conveyed in a pressured manner;
while I was growing up, very few people in my community, including my
parents, had completed high school. We were poor, and the notion of traveling
far to go to school was not even a consideration. Yet the messages were
clear that it was a time and period when change was happening and that we
could take on the identity of those who could take risks to try opportunities.
Perhaps the combination of having a paternal grandfather, who immigrated
and established a small grocery store business, and a maternal
grandfather, whose family was in Texas when Texas was still Mexico and
who served as a ranch foreman since way before I was born, influenced the
notion that leadership and proactivity were part of who we were. Both
grandmothers were kind but strong matriarchs in their own right. Whatever
the combination of experiences, I am grateful to have the transgenerational
expectation (however subtle) and attitude that we could accomplish
what opportunities led us to.


I thus experienced many privileges and "unearned advantages" in the
development of motivation and attitudes of persistence and entitlement.
Yet these were mixed with feelings of doubt, anxiety, and fear as a result of
many challenges and "unearned disadvantages" that mostly came in the
form of oppressive and discriminatory experiences.


<b>CHALLENGES, OPPRESSION,
AND UNEARNED DISADVANTAGES</b>


When I first entered elementary school in the first grade, I cried daily for
weeks and weeks. My mother was very distressed, assuming separation

[p. <i>67</i>]

What I learned in that year was that the world was unsafe, after all.
When parents hand their children to the school system, they hope that
those in charge will take as good care of their children as they did. When the
system fails to do so, disadvantage to the children is one of the consequences.


Sometime in those early months, I learned that being a good student
was what got some semblance of positive attention and regaining of safety.
Fortunately, our parents had shown us the library early in our childhood
and taught us to read before entering school.


Although my parents spoke Spanish to each other, they spoke English
to us so that we could speak English when we entered school (both parents
were "flunked" in the first grade for not speaking English). Ironically, although
we technically spoke English better than Spanish, we had accents. I
remember one very shaming experience where the teacher forced me to try
to say "choo-choo" rather than "shoo-shoo." When I was not able to, I dissolved
into tears, fearing being banished from the top reading group where
stories were so much more interesting! I remember the quiet and tension
from the rest of the students. It was very difficult to not know how to articulate
the pain of those kinds of shaming experiences.


Sometime in those early years in elementary school, I had a boyfriend
who was White. I do not recall whether we shared the status of "boyfriend/
girlfriend" for one week or three months, but he came to school one day and
told me that he could no longer be my boyfriend. His mother (who worked
at the school) told him that I could not be his girlfriend because I was Mexican.
I remember feeling confused and was frightened when my mother
expressed outrage when I went home and asked, "Mom, what's wrong with
being Mexican?" During those early years, I was confused by the apparent
fact that White people had better cars, clothes, and houses; I wondered if

[p. <i>68</i>]

I was in college when my feminism began in earnest. It came out of a
very mixed experience when I represented one of my organizations in one of
the beauty contests held at the university. I was chosen as a semifinalist but
very much disliked having to parade in bathing suits, gowns and to perform
dance routines in shorts in front of an auditorium full of people. When I was
nominated for another similar event, I declined, and my peers and advisers
could not understand why. I did not yet have the ability to articulate how
much I disliked that patriarchy objectified women by focusing on bodies
and looks; all I could say at the time was that I felt too much like a cow being
paraded about before the auction.


I experienced various other discriminatory and sexist experiences (and
still do to this day), and more of those are described in the context of how
they became empowering experiences.


<b>EMPOWERING EXPERIENCES</b>


<b><i>Parental Role Modeling</i></b>


I learned quite a bit about social justice from the actions of those around
me during my developmental years. My parents each contributed to my
positive development in different ways. My father was loving, kind, and socially
popular among the Latino community, but he had little contact with
the "White world," except in his work first as a farm worker (I suppose we
were "sharecroppers" when we lived on that farm, although that was not a
term we used) and then as a factory machine operator. My mother was also
loving but also assertive in her anger about discriminatory events. My first
memory of her advocacy took place in a J. C. Penny store. My mother observed
an elderly Mexican American woman attempting to be waited on,
holding a bolt of cotton material from which to purchase. The White clerk
continued to chat and serve all other White customers who came up after
the Latina woman. My mother interrupted the clerk, asked why she hadn't
waited on the Latina woman. When the clerk attempted to ignore my
mother, my mother loudly asked for the name of the manager and asked to
see him immediately. The clerk quickly waited on the elderly Latina. I remember
being very little (probably 3 or 4 years old) and very embarrassed at
the event. I wished I could disappear into the cracks of the wooden floor of
the store. In retrospect, I am, of course, very proud of my mother's willingness
to confront cruel and disrespectful treatment of others. She did so
often.

[p. <i>69</i>]

Although my mother worked throughout my elementary and high
school years as a housekeeper, cook, and child-care person who ironed other
people's clothes, she was very clear about the importance of justice, of education,
and of the importance of behaving as if we were deserving, even
when those around us did not convey that same message. She got her GED
(high school equivalency diploma) and then a bachelor's degree at about the
time I entered graduate school. By the time she retired a few years ago, she
was the executive director of a community action program with a multi-million-dollar
budget, had served on the local school board, and served as a
consultant and traveled internationally. She still serves as an active leader
in her community and has received multiple awards for her contributions.
Yesterday, for example, when I called to speak to her at 8 a.m., she did not return
my call until 10 p.m. because she'd been a polling judge for local elections
all day long and then attended the party for the mayoral candidate
who was successful in his campaign to become the community's first Asian
mayor. How lucky I am to have such an active, high-energy mother who
continues to live what she believes.


<b><i>Women of Color Allies</i></b>


I'd like to share a story that illustrates my early formative experiences
with women of color as allies. When I was in the second grade and
my younger sister was in kindergarten, we rode on a bus to and from school.
In 1957, although our school system had not integrated African American
students into the schools [<i>Brown vs. Board of Topeka</i>, 1954), our bus system
was integrated. Therefore, after school, our bus stopped at Bonham Elementary,
where the African American children got on the bus after school.


One day, a large White boy, about 2 or 3 years older, who often bullied us
all, came and roughly pushed my sister and me into a corner of our seat because
he wanted to sit in that space across from his friends. I remember the
fear and humiliation I felt for myself and for my sister. Yet we did nothing
but sit silently, squashed by his large size. An African American young girl,
about his size, saw what happened and came up, pushed his shoulder, and
said in a very loud, assertive voice, "What are you doing? You can't do that
to them. They're sitting there, can't you see, and you're crowding them.
Move. Now!" He looked at her defiantly and said, "This ain't your business."
She glared back and said, "It is now." The whole bus got quiet. She repeated
in a low voice, "Move. Now." He got up and moved. The young Black
girl went to her seat, came back, gave us each a piece of hard candy, and
watched over us and others like us for the rest of the year.


I did not at that time know the words <i>oppression, White male privilege</i>,
and <i>bullying</i> as they are used now, but that is some of what my sister and I
experienced as a result of that young boy's behavior that day. And I did not
know the words <i>ally, sisterhood</i>, and <i>creation of warm women of color
spaces</i>, but I experienced those in my heart that day. And I know that the

[p. <i>70</i>]

I learned from this and various other experiences that it was not the end
of the world when someone treated you unfairly. Othersor oneselfcan
stand up to fight it! But it is so nice when an ally with powerand there are
many forms of powerstands up to help or even initiates intervention.
Building alliances and making connections is clearly a strategy for all of us
to be more visible and powerful and is a major strategy for survival in this
world in which we live. When we have the power and opportunity to be
allies for others who are oppressed, we must all "give back."


<i><b>1960s Activism</b></i>


Another very important period of formation was in high school, which I
attended in the mid and late 1960s. During my sophomore year in high
school, the Blacks and Mexican Americans joined together to begin electing
representatives to positions of leadership. I was one of about two dozen
students elected as representatives on the Student Council, class officers,
cheerleaders, and so forth. Although we were exhilarated by our successes,
all of this was not without pain, struggle, and conflict. At one time, I was
elected part of the "Homecoming Royalty." I was the only person of color
among five young women and five young men. Assuming that I knew what
was happening, my favorite English teacher pulled me out of class and told
me that she had told her son, who had also been elected a favorite, that if no
one else was willing to serve as my escort at the presentation he must do so.
She meant to be reassuring and did not realize that I had not yet heard that
none of the White boys wanted to walk in with me. I remember feeling
shame, humiliation, and confusion. Likewise, when I went to cheerleader
camp with the other six cheerleaders (again, the only cheerleader of color
that year), no one was my roommate, and I discovered that I had been left
out of many slumber parties and events held by the other elected cheer-leaders.
Loneliness and exclusion were some of the prices to pay during that
period. However, the support of my family, friends, and community helped
carry me through those periods, even though I did not always share the pain
of those experiences with others. Since then, at high school reunions
(which I did not attend for the first 15 years), a couple of the "White women"
have reached out, expressing regret for the social segregation and treatment
of those days. I have been amazed and gratified at the willingness of a couple
of the women who wished to "make amends."

[p. <i>71</i>]

<i><b>White European Allies</b></i>


I did not trust "Anglo" or "White people" as I thought of them until
I was in college. One of my mentors, Dr. Colleen Conoley, went out of her
way to ensure that I availed myself of many opportunities as an undergraduate
and is responsible for encouraging me to enter graduate school in counseling
psychology (I partly trusted her perception that I might do well in graduate school only after also being encouraged to enter a graduate program
in sociology by a sociology professor and law school by a constitutional
law professor during undergraduate school). Colleen Conoley was
herself an alumna of University of Texas at Austin's counseling psychology
program, and her son Collie entered the program a year ahead of me. She
and her family were my first real White friends, and then I was open to developing
other "White friends" during my first two years as a school-teacher.


After my first marriage failed, I unintentionally became involved with
and married my current partner, Jim Miller. Although it was an adjustment
for my parents and community (very few of us had become involved in
"mixed marriages"), this experience taught me firsthand that some White
men really can "get it" and that many other factors are important in various
forms of connection and bonding at personal and professional levels. Many
other European Americans evolved as "allies" and good friends. My world
expanded during the two years that I taught middle school. I very much enjoyed
that experience. It was while simultaneously working on a counselor
education master's degree during those two years that I was encouraged to
apply to a doctoral program.


In graduate school, several professors made discouraging comments,
probably unintentionally at times. But many more were encouraging. My
dissertation co-chairs, Gary Hanson and Earl Koile, were brilliant in their
capacity to ensure that I maintained my motivation. Other members of
the committee, Ira Iscoe, June Gallessich, and Gus Baron, added varied support.
They are now colleagues, and we maintain some contact to this day.
My former "bosses" Donna McKinley and David Drum (who were Directors
at Colorado State University's Counseling Center and University of
Texas at Austin Counseling and Mental Health Center, respectively, when
I was at each place) are now good friends, and both are responsible for ensuring
that I seek the Diplomate from the American Board of Professional Psychology.
I engage in a variety of professional projects with two of my
colleagues, and close friends, Sally Grenard Moore and Alice Lawler.


Upon joining the American Psychological Association, its Division 17,
Counseling Psychology, was my "first home" division. Several of those
among the leadership of Division 17, such as Ursula Delworth, John
Alcorn, Donna McKinley, Jo-Ida Hansen, Jim Hurst, AlIvey, Naomi Meara,
Linda Forrest, and John Westefeld, encouraged my involvement. Manny
Casas asked me to co-chair the Ethnic Minority Committee, which was my

[p. <i>72</i>]

Many other "White allies" have been influential as well. Laura Brown
convinced me to run for president of Division 35, Society for the Psychology
of Women, my first division presidency, and Ken Pope invited me to co-author
an ethics book with him after having served together on the APA
Ethics Committee. Many other colleagues have also become good friends
over the years. Many, many others have been supporters in both short-and
long-term ways. In fact, more people than I can list have extended kindness
in all kinds of ways.


<b><i>American Psychological Association</i></b>


<b><i>Minority Fellowship Program and</i></b>


<b><i>the Public Interest Directorate</i></b>


During my first year in graduate school, I was awarded one of the first
APA Minority Fellowships. The program was directed first by Dalmas
Taylor and then by James Jones, both of whom also served as mentors from
afar and, in particular, encouraged involvement of Fellows in professional
activities, especially in the APA. The program afforded financial support
but also another reason to continue to work hard to achieve the goal of completing
the doctoral program. Currently, the APA Public Interest Directorate,
with Executive Director Henry Tomes, with Offices of Minority Affairs
(Bertha Holliday), Women's Programs (Gwen Keita), and other key offices
provide valuable staff support to the various projects initiated within APA.
The Fellowship program has served as a very important part of my graduate
training and professional life.


<i><b>Other Ethnic Minority Allies</b></i>


My first introduction to Latino psychologists was at the first Symposium
on Chicano Psychology held in 1976 in California toward the end of
my second year of graduate school. My peer and close friend to this day,
Anna Gonzalez Sorensen, and I were partly supported by Ira Iscoe, then Director
of University of Texas Counseling Center and one of the founders of
Community Psychology, to attend the conference, where we met several of
our future mentors, such as Martha Bernal, Manuel Ramirez, Amado
Padilla, Art Ruiz, Manny Casas, and other salient "mentors from afar." It
was also with some of those pioneers that I was able to participate in the
founding of the National Hispanic Psychological Association just a couple
of years after that symposium. It was an exhilarating experience to "immerse"
ourselves with other Hispanic psychologists, and even now, that
opportunity continues to be an important experience in my professional
and personal life.

[p. <i>73</i>]

Other mentors, peers, and students/former students have been supporters,
and I have established strong bonds from working on various
projects with a wide variety of people, such as Carolyn Payton and Reiko
True, women long active in the APA, who encouraged my participation as
well. I have coauthored chapters and articles with former students Ay Ling
Han, Cynthia de las Fuentes, and Natalie Eldridge. Staff members at the
American Psychological Association have become life-long friends, including
Gwen Keita and Lillian Comas Diaz, among so many others! John
Moritsugu and many others helped found Division 45, Society for the
Psychological Study of Ethnic Minority Issues. Pam Reid, first woman of
color president of Division 35, invited my active involvement in that Division
when she asked me to serve as her program chair. Jessica Henderson
Daniel, Janis Sanchez-Hucles, and others have been active supporters in Division
35. Derald Wing Sue, Rosie Phillips Bingham, Lisa Porsche Burke,
and Steven James, cofounders and planners of the first and second National
Multicultural Conference and Summit, feel as close to me as siblings. It
was a privilege to serve as a Division President the same year that Dick
Suinn served as APA President.


<i><b>Affirmative Action</b></i>


Were it not for Affirmative Action I would not be a psychologist. I was
one of the first of several graduate students of color admitted into the doctoral
program at the University of Texas in the 1970s in an attempt to diversify
the profession of psychology. The admissions program expanded the
usual number of students accepted into the program. Although my GRE
scores were in the acceptable range, they were not as high as many of the
students'. I stubbornly set out to prove that I could achieve despite others'
superior scores. That determination, and my mother's internalized belief
that I would belong even when others thought I didn't, and the organization
of a support system of graduate students of color and of women's groups
helped me through the challenges of those years. Although there were no
Latino faculty members, there were White faculty members who provided
occasional encouragement of the work of interest, and I am grateful to those
individuals.


Affirmative Action is indeed an important strategy to promote social
justice. Despite the fact that Americans value equality and fairness, it is
clear that women and ethnic minorities have historically not benefited
from the valuing of those principles. Psychological knowledge can inform
the debate, and I'd like to suggest that we all commit to continue supporting
these very important strategies.


Affirmative Action most likely contributed to my job acquisitions at
Colorado State University and then at the University of Texas at Austin. I
am grateful to the director of the CSU Counseling Center at the time,
Donna McKinley, and to the head of the department, Dick Suinn, for the

[p. <i>74</i>]

Were my peers with higher GRE scores superior to me? I remember expressing
my vulnerability about my GRE scores to the head of the counseling
psychology program, Royal Embree, who told me that a study he had
done over several years showed an inverse relationship between the highest
scores on GREs with ability to complete the program! He was very kind and
encouraging when he shared that information with me.


Did my awareness of being an Affirmative Action designee harm my
self-esteem? Although I struggled with the feeling of belonging, that feeling
did not come as a result of having been admitted via Affirmative Action
strategies. There is some evidence that Affirmative Action may actually
raise the self-esteem of women and minorities by providing them with employment
and opportunities for advancement. Retired General Colin
Powell, after reviewing the results of a major study that challenged much of
the conservative thinking about Affirmative Action, dismissed concerns
about the alleged stigma that opponents say the program imposes. An article
in the September 9,1998 edition of the <i>New York Times</i> reported Powell
as saying, "I would tell black youngsters to graduate from the (prestigious)
schools magna cum laude and get one of those well-paying jobs to pay for all
the therapy they'll need to remove that stigma."


After obtaining my Ph.D., I spent the next 13 years at two different university
counseling centers, part of the time serving as training director at
each setting (Colorado State University and University of Texas at Austin).
Both experiences provided me with the opportunities to develop my interests
in ethnic minority psychology, psychology of women, and training and
supervision both in my provision of services and in my writings. I also developed
my interest in professional activities, becoming involved in a
variety of APA divisions, boards and committees, and state and regional
associations related to psychology. I have been in full-time private practice
for the past 10 years and have continued those professional leadership and
volunteer activities as well as my writing. I am driven and motivated by my
very strong belief that many pioneers before me contributed to increasing
opportunities for many such as myself. I believe that it is partly my responsibility
to expand those opportunities for others. It is also important for us
to increase the competency of those who deliver services, conduct research,
and provide training in areas of diversity, as for populations such as ethnic
minorities, women, lesbian, gay, bisexual, and transgendered persons, disabled
persons, and others.

[p. <i>75</i>]

<b>STRATEGIES AND RECOMMENDATIONS</b>


The following strategies and recommendations are for those of you who
are graduate students or young professionals. They are based on my experiences
and on my observations of those of my students of color and clients of
color.


<i>Take risks</i>. Allow curiosity and energy to give direction to areas in which
you wish to explore your power and salience. Phoebe Eng, in her book <i>Warrior
Lessons</i> (1999), states that "sometimes we've got to force ourselves into
battlefor beliefs, for our boundaries, and to defend big pictures. Becoming
a wise fighter, after all, is less about shouting and more about strategy" (p.
197). She also suggests that learning to fight the good fight means understanding
that our successes do not imply the failure of others. We must
believe that there is plenty to go around. Risk takers often find that true
fearlessness is not the elimination of fear, but the transcendence of fear, the
movement through it and not against it. Fearlessness means the willingness
to "lean into the anxiety and fear."


<i>Allow for imperfections and mistakes</i>. Mistakes are part of life. Acknowledge
them to yourself (and to others, if necessary), learn from them, fix them
as much as possible, and move on. Do not let them define you. They are a
part of every human's experience. Men tend to attribute success to themselves
and failures to others. Women tend to attribute success to luck, support
of others, and failures to themselves. We must let go of shame and learn
the philosophy of "Bummer, oh well!" We must transcend the fear of failure,
cast it aside, and listen to our kinder selves.


<i>Engage in self-care</i>. You are the only one who can ensure that you exercise,
eat healthily, have a good balance of work, rest, play, and relationships, set
appropriate boundaries, and so on. We have to be able to treat ourselves as
preciously as we do anyone else.


<i>Develop self-confidence</i>. We must constantly practice how to hold ourselves
out with confidence, how to articulate our ideas, and how to face creative
conflict in order to reach resolutions. These are simply skills that can
be developed through practice. Continue to articulate the value of diversity
and inclusion in decision making and power. We need individuals who are
able and willing to articulate commitment to diversity issues. Phoebe Eng
talks about modern-day warrior women of color. She believes that "power
from within" (confidence) is based on the inherent value in each of us, separate
from that which represents us to others. Power from within recognizes
that groups and alliances are strong and balanced only when each of the
members is strong and balanced. If we have power from within, we are relatively
freed from the weight of outside expectations, downward pressure,
and confining stereotypes. We can be released to act genuinely and freely.
Otherwise, "our lives begin to end the day we are silent about things that
matter," according to Martin Luther King, Jr.


<i>Observe role models and mentors</i>. Mentors are scarce. Use them
situationallyand at a distance. I have received much mentoring and guidance
from my peers and, sometimes, have learned lots from watching younger

[p. <i>76</i>]

<i>Use your anger to empower your lives</i>. Our upbringing and social codes can
make it difficult to allow us to experience anger, and many of us haven't
learned how to translate those feelings to create change in the situations
around us. We may assume that if we are good and respectful to others, those
behaviors will be reciprocated. This expectation can interfere with our right
to rage and anger, which can be transformed into healthy, assertive expressions
that say "We count," "I am to be respected," "You may not mistreat
me," and "I am deserving." Or it may be unbridled and destructive in its expression.
Anger is a healthy signal that tells us and those around us where
our boundaries are, what we instinctively feel is tolerable or intolerable, and
can signal when those limits have been trespassed. Conflict is necessary because
difference is inherent in every endeavor. Channeling anger through
constructive acts can be empowering.


<i>Engage in activism</i>. We can depend on ourselves as individuals and groups
to make a difference. We must also develop alliances with power structures
and set up policies and structures to make a difference. Affirmative Action
types of strategies are absolutely necessary for continued change.


<i>Engage in support systems and provide support to others</i>. Empowering others
can be the same as empowering ourselves. The precious and powerful
standing up for each other is one of the most exquisite gifts to give and to
receive.


This quote by Nelson Mandela in his inauguration speech is from
Lillian Comas-Diaz's editorial in the journal <i>Cultural Diversity and Mental
Health</i> (1998, Vol. 4, p. 151):


Our deepest fear is not that we are inadequate. Our deepest fear is that we
are powerful beyond measure. It is our light, not our darkness, that frightens
us. We ask ourselves, who am I to be brilliant, gorgeous, talented, fabulous?
Actually, who are you not to be? You are a child of the universe.
There is nothing enlightened about shrinking so that other people won't
feel insecure around you. We were born to make manifest the glory of creation.
It is not just in some of us; it is in everyone. And as we let our own
light shine, we unconsciously give other people permission to do the
same. As we are liberated from our own fear, our presence automatically
liberates others.


<b>RELEVANT PUBLICATIONS</b>


Han, A. L., &amp; Vasquez, M. J. T. (1997). Group interventions and treatment with ethnic minorities.
In J. F. Aponte, R. Y. Rivers, &amp; J. Wohl (Eds.), <i>Psychological interventions
and cultural diversity</i> (2nd ed.). Boston: Allyn &amp; Bacon.


Pope, K., &amp; Vasquez, M. J. T. (1998). <i>Ethics in psychotherapy and counseling: A practical
guide</i> (2nd ed.). San Francisco: Jossey-Bass.


Vasquez, M. J. T. (1998). Latinos and violence: Mental health implications and strategies
for clinicians. <i>Cultural Diversity and Mental Health, 4</i>, 319-334.

[p. <i>77</i>]

Vasquez, M. J. T., &amp; de las Fuentes, C. (1999). American-born Asian, African, Latina and
Native American adolescent girls: Challenges and strengths. In N. G. Johnson,
M. Roberts, &amp; J. Worell (Eds.). <i>Beyond appearance: A new look at adolescent girls</i>.
Washington, DC: American Psychological Association.


Vasquez, M. J. T., &amp; de las Fuentes, C. (1999). Hate speech or freedom of expression? Balancing
autonomy and feminist ethics in a pluralistic society. In M. Brabeck (Ed.),
<i>Practicing feminist ethics in psychology</i>. Washington, DC: American Psychological
Association.


Correspondence regarding this chapter may be sent to Melba J. T. Vasquez, Anderson House
at Heritage Square, 2901 Bee Cave Road, Box N, Austin, TX 78746 (e-mail address:
MelVasquez@aol.com).

