Transcript of Audio File:
______________________________________________________________________________
BEGIN TRANSCRIPT:
CLIENT: So I don't have my phone, I forgot it. I didn't get up early this morning and finish a title which was supposed to be done yesterday.
THERAPIST: Uh huh.
CLIENT: Of course I hit snooze too many times and didn't finish the title.
THERAPIST: Gotcha. Was this the complicated one?
CLIENT: Yeah, and did I tell you what they did to me? I told them it was complicated and I wasn't gonna have it done and they said, oh for your, FYI, you only needed to do the developer forward. So, in a certain year the land was developed into condominiums, whereas the years prior it was a whole bunch of lots being pulled together.
THERAPIST: I see.
CLIENT: So I had spent all of my time doing prior to the developer which was complicated. And so then I get to the developer which is a condominium, it's big, it's not complicated but time consuming.
THERAPIST: Mmhm. [00:00:58]
CLIENT: So they totally fucked me on it and I just kind of put it off until yesterday and I really didn't have a chance to do it so, I did it this morning. I had already done sort of part of it, but, um, it's kind of done but I need to draw it up and scan it and you know, make it all nice and neat for them.
There's a nice little title problem, where um, the woman receives the property from her husband in divorce with the last name Johnson and she sells the property with her last name, her maiden name Garrett but makes no reference to it ever being Johnson. So that's a little bit of a problem there. I wouldn't close on that. Um, not even if the title insurance approved it. [00:01:48]
Um, but, um so I called them and said there's a problem and I had problems with Adobe yesterday and I'll get to it later this morning and told them what the problem was. So I, part of the reason I didn't have time, is I was helping out one of my fellow Frisbee players. The tournament is this weekend, the tournament, so people from all the way up the East coast you know. Um I think as far out as Mid-West maybe, are all coming to you know, for this tournament.
They needed, they give the players these little player bags with the you know, swag and stuff.
THERAPIST: Yup.
CLIENT: So I was helping stuff bags. I was actually screwing the tops on water bottles. And I'd already promised to do that and I knew the guy who was running it didn't have a whole lot of people helping him.
THERAPIST: Yup. [00:02:51]
CLIENT: That it, you know, well I should have bailed. I didn't and I got home at like eleven thirty last night. And uh, walked the dog and it was twelve, and decided I'll get up early in the morning and hit the snooze button three or four times and didn't get up, so whatever.
THERAPIST: Yup.
CLIENT: So I was running out the door and forgot my phone. Which I was going to show you a picture of my dog as I saw him on Wednesday with about that high of down in the cage, he had pulled in a down comforter and totally shredded the whole thing. There's still down everywhere, I haven't totally been able to get it all because... I borrowed Jess's dust buster and that runs out of battery quick and the swiffer fills up quick and just... [00:03:45]
THERAPIST: Yeah.
CLIENT: I haven't been home. I left yesterday at seven fifteen and got home at eleven thirty. So um, chaos Jess called, starts texting me, she's got a client, one who's bounced two checks to us, and she's in Concord, that's why I had to get up early to take the kids to school, um, or get out the door early.
Um, she's got the client in Concord, um for I guess a contempt hearing or I don't know what the hearing was for and she's worried that she's not going to be able to pick up Ian. And I'm like, you know, I've got a closing at five thirty and I don't have my documents yet. [00:04:30]
THERAPIST: Yeah.
CLIENT: I can't go get Ian, and she's like can you skip E&G; and I'm like the point is that I don't have my documents I'm gonna get them this afternoon.
THERAPIST: Yep.
CLIENT: Basically I called her and I said alright you know, I'll run home from E&G; if I have to and then drive him up and then you can pick him up. And she finished in the middle of E&G; and that didn't have to happen. And she texted that she was never so glad to see that her client walk away in handcuffs. [00:04:58]
So obviously he was detained for not paying his child support. One of the things that I texted her is has he paid you?
THERAPIST: Right.
CLIENT: Because she's not got enough money coming in. And she goes I think he has money. And I said if it was my client I would have asked for the money up front. And sure enough he didn't have a chance to pay her because his hands were behind his back as he was being led off to jail. [00:05:24]
THERAPIST: Yep.
CLIENT: So, I was kind of ticked off about that and I'm, you know, the whole thing was very stressful for me to begin with. Just the prospect of having to you know, I could have skipped E&G; but I'm like you know, not the president not being there with a potentially new venue...
THERAPIST: Right.
CLIENT: It's, low numbers it's just you know, um, so I get to the closing and the woman is all pissed off at her husband because she wasn't involved in the process at all which she made very clear to me, and starts questioning why they're doing it. They're going from five to four percent. She's like yeah but we're going back to thirty years. Their last closing was in 2009, so it's like... [00:06:11]
THERAPIST: Right.
CLIENT: So, you know their last closing they cashed out a hundred and fifty thousand dollars which she's upset about, which doesn't affect this closing basically.
THERAPIST: Kind of water under the bridge.
CLIENT: Yeah the savings is like three hundred bucks a year, or three hundred bucks a month which is like twenty five hundred dollars a year. So you know, I had to go deal with that and I'm just nervous that something in there is fucked up and I'm going to have to go back. I just, I'm nervous, I don't know, you know you had to hand write in the dates for the notice or write cancel on that, I didn't know if I was supposed to have them initial it or not. [00:06:49]
I know I screwed up something with this lender before. I don't know we'll see. I frantically was looking through all the instructions to see what they wanted to have initialed. But it just said dated and signed. So that's been stressing me out and um, I don't know if, I felt like I was kind of on a upswing you know, like I was getting better and then Wednesday um, the dog and he's just, you see his diarrhea is not getting better. Um, you know I'm cleaning out the cage all the fucking time. I left with the shit and piss in the living room because I had to get this fucking title done you know? [00:07:41]
And um, you know I don't know if it's cuz I'm just desperate or have no companionship whatsoever, but I'm sort of becoming obsessed with this woman on my Frisbee team, having met her twice. And um, you know, I was face, I told you I was Facebook stalking her and I realized that. Most people set their Facebook to let friends of friends view everything.
THERAPIST: Yeah.
CLIENT: And I realized that, I thought she had everything public but basically...
THERAPIST: It's only because you're a friend of a friend of her.
CLIENT: Right, so I was able to read all of her wall posts, and I thinks she's turning thirty soon. So it's like, she's thirty I'm forty two, I have two kids, I'm separated, I'm like I'm fat I'm bald, I'm like you know. Um and that makes me only kind of you know, it's kind of like Claire. I think part of the reason that I was so obsessed with Claire was because I couldn't have her. You know? [00:08:48]
THERAPIST: Mmhm.
CLIENT: And I'm starting to think that that's what happening here too. It's like you know, she's got you know, mildly attractive you know, cute smile you know, but nothing...
THERAPIST: Right, not stunning.
CLIENT: Yeah, not stunning. I like that; I wouldn't even have a chance there. Just you know, just beating myself up with that, here's just one more disappointment that's gonna come in my life. You know? It's like I'm never gonna get the courage to ask her out on a date or you know, I don't know. Just, do you understand what I'm saying? You're staring off into space and... [00:09:37]
THERAPIST: (laughter) I guess I'm trying to...
CLIENT: My um basic knowledge of neurolinguistics is that when someone is trying to think about something they look up like that. You do that so...
THERAPIST: Uh huh.
CLIENT: I don't know if you study neurolinguistics it's like all...
THERAPIST: Not so much. Um...
CLIENT: If you're thinking about numbers they look one way, colors the other way...
THERAPIST: Oh really?
CLIENT: Audio, sound visual.
THERAPIST: Yeah.
CLIENT: Different um, you know facial movements based on what you're trying to think about. Go ahead sorry. [00:10:20]
THERAPIST: Uh...
Pause at [00:10:24] to [00:10:49]
THERAPIST: Yeah I guess I don't um, I have a kind of few different senses at the same time. Uh, about you know, kind of what was going on with how you felt about Claire and now with this new woman. What's her first name? Just a way to refer to her?
CLIENT: I was wondering whether I should tell you or not.
THERAPIST: It's up to you, you don't have to..
CLIENT: Her name is Barbara. Bates.
THERAPIST: That's right, you did mention it. AS long as we have a way to refer to her, that's all I really was asking for. [00:11:33]
CLIENT: That woman.
THERAPIST: Fine, that woman. That woman. Um, why would you hesitate to tell me?
CLIENT: I don't know. But you know I've played um, I'm thinking back in time, of my interaction with this woman. Um, I never really introduced myself; we played Frisbee practice with seven or eight people so we're kind of on the same scrimmage side. And um, then we sat next to each other um when we went to the bar afterwards. I only asked her like a few things I didn't really talk to her that much.
THERAPIST: Uh huh.
CLIENT: Um so I'm just winning her over.
THERAPIST: Did you have a crush on her then or were you just not even thinking about it?
CLIENT: No, well like every woman you know, I just, I size them up and that's all I had done.
THERAPIST: Right. [00:12:24]
CLIENT: And um, there was a party Saturday where you know as I was drinking and probably making a fool of myself and probably saying stupid things...
THERAPIST: Yeah.
CLIENT: Um, that I started feeling attracted to her you know? Um, so once again I only had I think a brief conversation with her.
THERAPIST: What do you remember about it?
CLIENT: The only thing I remember is asking her you know, where she played before. Um, she used to play on another local team. They just had too many women so they let her go and we picked her up. [00:13:00]
THERAPIST: Mmhm.
CLIENT: And um, but I remember you know, I mean I always just say stupid self deprecating things about myself to make people laugh.
THERAPIST: I may have seen that once or twice.
CLIENT: Yeah, so I'm sure there was plenty of that as Tequila shots were being passed around you know.
THERAPIST: Right. [00:13:23]
CLIENT: I don't even remember when she left or whether, I don't know. I don't. So and that's adding to my anxiousness about it. And I just, I don't know why um, because I even thought about that day, I've told you her name and um, I don't know.
CLIENT: I mean I'm separated, I'm not even, I don't even know what the ground rules are. What I can do and can't do. I know Claire was separated and um she had an affair and everyone...
THERAPIST: After being separated.
CLIENT: After being separated, and that seemed like a big deal to everyone. Where it's like they were already in the process of getting divorced. [00:14:19]
THERAPIST: Right.
CLIENT: And they had already filed I think for divorce or were at least negotiating a separation agreement. So it seems kind of odd to me that everybody made a big deal about it.
THERAPIST: Right.
CLIENT: You know, I mean at the point that Claire did not want me to get a deal with her sister to work on her sister's sale, afraid that her sister might tell me. And you know, it just.
THERAPIST: Right.
CLIENT: So I don't know what the ground rules are you know. I've always had enough problems approaching women when it was a normal situation. And this is an overly complicated situation and I just don't see you know, why this woman would want to get involved with me at all. I mean, and I haven't brought up the fact that I'm you know, not exactly mentally stable completely. [00:15:20]
Pause at [00:15:20] to [00:15:36]
CLIENT: And do I even bring that kind of stuff up? I'm not even saying things you know, about you know being in therapy. Um, hey it's almost been a year since they let me out of the hospital. (laugh)
THERAPIST: Uh huh.
CLIENT: I think I might have mentioned some things about that, I don't know. But I don't know, I don't know what, what just uh... a distraction you know. Creating anxiety but the dog's really fucking pissing me off. I just, he's in the car right now. Just I've had it, I can't take it. [00:16:21]
THERAPIST: Well it sounds like you, it's uh a lot of work and stress.
CLIENT: Yeah, I spent three hundred bucks on him on Monday, he's taking the medication, he's eating fucking rice and chicken. I just gave him rice this morning because I don't have any chicken that's cooked. And he's fucking didn't even eat half the rice. He did a small poop in the living room, Ian's room, peed in Ian's room; I haven't cleaned it up yet. His cage reeks of urine, I gotta clean that up and I gotta do all the shit I have to do today.
I am supposed to have lunch with a loan officer today. I have to get something on record which I should have gotten on record yesterday. I've got to make phone calls. It's like I've got all this shit I need to do and I've got fucking soccer practice. [00:17:13]
It's like I'm you know, and I'm like do I go and get on record first and then put this title together you know? Because the longer I wait to go to the registry to get on record, the longer the wait is going to be to get on record at the registry.
So I'm thinking that I should probably go grab my phone, grab the uh mortgage and go to the registry as soon as I'm done here.
THERAPIST: So you actually wondered for a minute there, what was going on with your interest in that woman.
CLIENT: You can call her Kaylee.
THERAPIST: Ok.
CLIENT: What do you mean I wondered? [00:18:00]
THERAPIST: Well you're like why am I doing this?
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: Sort of uh, why have I gotten so focused on her, I don't really know her.
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: It's like you know, not that likely something would work out, at least that's what you're saying and so why get kind of fixated or whatever, thinking about her a lot. Um.
CLIENT: I don't even know if she's heterosexual. [00:18:43]
THERAPIST: Right. Sure.
CLIENT: You know there's no pictures of her, of her with anyone but like her brother on the website you know. Maybe one picture, a group picture where there's like a guy in the picture you know, but I don't know.
THERAPIST: So, you don't wonder things like that, that often.
CLIENT: I guess not.
THERAPIST: Um, I mean as soon as I started to say something I think you changed the subject like two or three times.
CLIENT: I'm good at that. [00:19:23]
THERAPIST: I know. But you did actually pose the question too.
CLIENT: I spilled coffee. (laughter) I spilled coffee on my shirt and it looks like I got most of it out. Um, what was the question?
THERAPIST: (laughter) Where am I again? Who are you? What are we doing? Yeah.
Pause at [00:19:50] to [00:20:10]
CLIENT: Saw a doctor or nurse practitioner, physicians assistant whatever (inaudible at 00:20:19) on Wednesday. And um, so that was like you know hours after just seeing what the dog had done you know. And just, (sigh) I had no blanket to sleep with, I had like a throw from, a little throw which the dog ends up dragging and curling up and sleeping on you know?
And he knows I'm pissed off at him and I think that's adding to his diarrhea you know, that he senses that I'm stressed, I'm anxious he, you know which is probably just adding to his stress and anxiousness you know. Um, that's one of the things that um the dog whisperer um, I've only seen the show once. Um, but one of the things I picked up on that when you're walking your dog, if you get anxious about a situation the dog is gonna get anxious. If you're calm about the situation, the dog is gonna be calm. They take their cues from you, emotionally or whatever. [00:21:32]
The women were having problems with their dogs getting crazy around other dogs. Where if they were calm as they approached another dog...
THERAPIST: The dog's calm.
CLIENT: It kind of works too is, you know when I, when I just you know, the more calm I am around Buddy and other dogs the more he behaves. You know? I don't let him engage with most dogs, but at least he doesn't go crazy.
THERAPIST: Right.
CLIENT: Barking and pulling so. So yeah, I changed the subject again. But you couldn't remember where you were. Should we rewind the tape? [00:22:16]
THERAPIST: I uh, no I know where we were, it's up to you, do you want to go back to it?
CLIENT: I don't know, I don't know what's important.
THERAPIST: I think you're generally more interested in kind of getting things off your chest and letting me know how much, how intense and how painful the things you're struggling with are than in reflecting about what's going on. And that's ok. But you seem (pause) strenuously weighted of reflecting on what's going on. I think mostly because you come here really to unburden yourself and it feels like reflecting or interpreting or introspecting that way will be more burdensome. Or will add to what you have to deal with rather than offloading some of what you've got, and which you know really understandably weighs so heavily on you. [00:23:56]
CLIENT: I don't know if it's burden as much as fear.
THERAPIST: How do you mean?
CLIENT: I don't know, maybe I'm just afraid of what's going on. It may be the same thing as burden I don't know. Maybe what you're talking about, but...
THERAPIST: No maybe you're um, more accurate about it. You know I think a lot of stuff you're doing is awful frustrating, often upsetting, sometimes scary certainly. What you're feeling is more like, all the things you're doing with like financially and with Jess and, and everything in your life are — the feeling is mostly fear.
Pause at [00:25:01] to [00:25:19]
CLIENT: So what's your point?
THERAPIST: Um...
CLIENT: I mean is there gonna to be a point I'm no longer burdened? That's what I always keep wondering. You know, when's this gonna end? Cuz now I'm getting stress from work and you know, the different things I have to do with work you know.
THERAPIST: Right, it's not the not having the work it's what's involved in getting it done.
CLIENT: Yeah. Yeah, I mean there's still you know...
THERAPIST: It's not either or...[00:26:16]
CLIENT: I still wish I had more work, absolutely. I am having trouble keeping track of the stuff I need to do, and um, I think about it at times where it's like I gotta make these fucking phone calls today, when am I gonna make these phone calls? You know? (pause) Um, I always felt like it was important as a lawyer to call people back right away. Not let them have the you know, oh he's a lawyer, they never call you back. [00:27:02]
THERAPIST: Mmhm.
CLIENT: It bothers me when I've become that, oh I get into that situation like...
THERAPIST: Yeah.
CLIENT: I've always tried not to be that lawyer. That's what I'm turning into. Some of it's not because I have stuff to do at all you know, I mean... It's like now I just remembered my dad just had fusion back surgery yesterday, so I gotta call him you know? It's fucking mother's day on Sunday, what the fuck am I supposed to do for Jess if anything? You know? I have no access to the kids where I can have them make something. Um, I don't want to spend money on flowers you know? I feel like just doing nothing. [00:27:57]
THERAPIST: I see and part of what you are saying is not so much like you feel burdened by these things as scared of how the hell you're gonna deal with them without causing more problems, like spending more money you don't have or pissing off Jess. Things like that, feeling guilty about your parents.
CLIENT: I know I can call up my mom and say Happy Mother's Day, sorry I couldn't get you flowers but I'm broke. Calling up my step-mom, Happy Mother's Day, sorry I didn't get you flowers but I'm broke. Calling up my grandma, Happy Mother's Day, Happy Mother's Day.
I don't even know if my grandmother knows I'm separated. She kind of acts like she doesn't know. [00:28:50]
THERAPIST: Mmhm.
Pause at [00:28:50] to [00:29:25]
CLIENT: There's just too much stuff going on for me, I want a break from it all you know? It's like you know, tomorrow I've got a soccer game at eleven. You know, um, I got my school fifteen year reunion which is a open bar and I'm taking the team. Um, they wanted me to help out with...
THERAPIST: Why are you taking the team there?
CLIENT: Um, they wanted me to volunteer for the tournament this weekend but I don't feel like driving out to fucking where ever and spending so much money on gas. It's not even funny and Pembroke almost every day. Still have to deal with you know, had to reschedule the phone line which is gonna cost me two hundred dollars to put in and fifty dollars a month just so I can send and receive faxes you know? [00:30:33]
Probably in the long run it would have been cheaper to buy a scanner and just use it to eFax, but um, I don't know. I feel like I need a fax line and um, (pause) I just have no furniture, I don't have a desk. People look in my office just see boxes everywhere.
There's nothing right in my world, that's my problem. There's nothing I can hang onto and say well at least I've got this you know? Not even the kids. I really, that's not doing it for me. Oh well at least I've got two charming adorable kids you know? [00:31:32]
THERAPIST: Yes you do. Sure you do.
CLIENT: I don't though, I don't see them every day, I don't see the little changes that they make, I don't know what's going on in their lives you know? I don't know how Ian is doing in school. You know you said it's ok I wanted to get her to send me you know the newsletter and stuff. She did it for two weeks and stopped. So it's like I don't see anything he brings home from school.
I take him to school once a week and pick him up every once in awhile, um and usually when I pick him up it's inconvenient for me. You know he wanted to play baseball on Wednesday but it was raining. I got upset when I saw the down and I also had to get a closing package to do a closing. So I just took him to staples and made copies and did work while he was just um there. So it's like, I'm not even that busy and I don't have time for my kids. I'm loathing soccer practice; I'm loathing the games, just...
Pause at [00:32:51] to [00:33:07]
CLIENT: You know I have lunch with a loan officer today which I don't feel like doing but it's one of those things I gotta do. And um, money that I don't have, that I'll be spending and just (sigh) there was part of me that was kind of hoping that Jess needed me to go pick up Ian cuz then I felt like I got a you know, get out of jail for life free card. Like I could always just say you know, if she ever brings up that I don't do anything or, well what about that time you totally fucked my day? When I had to pick up Ian from school you know?
I think I've done enough money wise that she can't do the same about that. But um. [00:34:06]
THERAPIST: I just, the best you're saying can happen with any of these things is that uh, aren't as scared of them. It's not like anything is going on that's actually gratifying or makes you feel secure. It's you know, it sounds like good outcomes mean you know there was no catastrophe or you weren't uh, criticized and made to feel shitty about something.
CLIENT: Yeah, and I um, I've convinced myself that you know, our marriage is irreconcilable. That I just can't stand her anymore. I mean you know, there was a time I thought I'd move back in but now, it's just like I can't stand her, I can't stand how she complains, you know? Instead of you know, the sun block thing really fucking did it for me. [00:35:15]
Um, you know, here I am I come in; I just spent fucking eight hours with the kid. You know the first thing you do is complain about a little bit of sun on the kid. He wasn't bright red sun burned, you know I mean, he was a little red. You know and then that e-mail not too shortly after I left saying what a great time he had, you know, kind of you know it should have been sorry I got upset with you, sorry I snapped on you.
You know, she doesn't realize that what she complains about me, she might as well as be looking in the mirror because she does the same things herself. You know? And um, I just, she's not gonna change, she's always gonna have this perception of me that you know, I don't do enough. And um, maybe that's why um, I have taken more interest in Barbara than you know. [00:36:34]
THERAPIST: Mmhm.
CLIENT: Than I would have previously.
THERAPIST: Mmhm.
Pause at [00:36:45] to [00:37:56]
CLIENT: I'm really nervous about this loan, I'm like did I fuck up? You know, lenders are so particular about how you do things. It's like I didn't want to do, I didn't want to have them initial you know? I don't know. That's another thing I've got to do today is get that loan put together and out the door so it gets funded, so I can get paid.
THERAPIST: Mmhm.
CLIENT: Pay my malpractice insurance, go to the fucking grocery store and get some food. I'm eating out all the time cuz I have no food.
Pause at [00:38:42] to [00:39:08]
CLIENT: So it's Friday and I'm wiped. Just wiped. You know at E&G; we've got like five people applying for the financial advisor seat and I've been doing some heavy lobbying for who I think it should be and the realtor doesn't agree with me. There's three people and just two people need to, and I can't get her to see why. Cuz two people have complained about this guy. [00:39:43]
THERAPIST: The one you like?
CLIENT: Yeah, the first is the woman who used to be the financial planner who now does the life insurance. So you know, she's not gonna do any business with him cuz they do the same thing, so of course she's gonna find problems with what he did.
The other one is the CPA is like, well I don't even know if he's gonna be in the group or not, I can't refer to him, her guy is in the group. And then it's like listen, I can't refer to her guy because I don't know the guy. I'm gonna keep referring people that I've you know, um...the guy who left the group that's who I'd refer to because he'd be the best person for my clients.
So the two complaints aren't really complaints you know? [00:40:32]
THERAPIST: Yeah.
CLIENT: And two of the people on the membership committee kind of understand that. But, I really want them to make a decision sooner rather than later and um, you know, they've got to make it before Thursday but I want it sooner than that. For me, I'm anxious over it.
And um, there's a lawyer that was visiting the chapter yesterday and she even said how impressed she was with him. And that you know, that he was an effective speaker. Cuz most of the people got up there and were, oh I'm trying to do this and trying to get referrals for you know, basically kissing ass. Where he got up there and he thanked everybody for the time that you know, cuz he's been coming from the beginning of the visitor's day, so he's been there for like five meetings. So he's just you know, like, I really appreciate the opportunity to meet everyone. [00:41:42]
THERAPIST: Yeah.
CLIENT: And um, I don't know, it just. It's also kind of hanging over me. So I got so many things hanging over me and I come in here and I don't even know, I can't even get them all out.
THERAPIST: Yeah, you pretty much always sound overwhelmed. Which I guess I'm, I really know what you're saying, that there's just so much stuff.
CLIENT: And it bothers me that no one else knows that.
THERAPIST: Sure, it's much harder to be alone with things like that.
CLIENT: It's like you know, let's say there's some you know, grace of god that this woman takes an interest in me. If I was honest with her about all of my problems you know, she'd be out the door like that you know? [00:42:52]
Well I can't introduce you to my kids because I don't want them to get, to start liking you in case we break up. You know that kind of shit.
THERAPIST: Mmhm.
CLIENT: Um, yeah, I'm in therapy twice a week and here's all the medications I'm on. Um, my ex wife was a bitch today. You know, just (pause) this is my dad, yes I'm twelve years older than your daughter, with a failed marriage.
THERAPIST: Uh. Yeah you focus pretty hard on one side of things here.
CLIENT: (sigh) I mean realistically though. [00:43:48]
THERAPIST: Yeah.
CLIENT: I mean you know.
THERAPIST: You don't know who she is, you don't know what's going on with her, you don't know what her problems are, you don't know who she's looking for, you don't know what's gonna make her happy.
CLIENT: Yeah, so I can only guess that she's either a lesbian or you know, I don't know. And it's an awkward thing you know, playing Frisbee with someone and you know, I've never. I mean I've been married and or dating Jess pretty much the whole time you know for going on thirteen and a half years. I've been playing Frisbee for you know, seventeen years you know. And um, it would just be awkward for me to um, express my intentions and have them rejected and then you know, well don't tell anyone. [00:44:50]
THERAPIST: We're gonna stop in a minute, but I mean this has got to happen right? In a setting like that with a bunch of grownups? Playing a sport, people ask each other out sometimes?
CLIENT: Yeah, that's one more you know?
THERAPIST: Broadcast and humiliated for the rest of their? I mean uh, yeah you're pretty quick to self deprecate and feel kind of embarrassed and ashamed about all that. I know there are things that you know, you know anyway. Yeah.
END TRANSCRIPT
