<font size="4"><b>Chapter Eight</b></font>
[p. <i>[277]</i>]

It is barely daylight. As my mind floats up from the still pool of
sleep, its first conscious act is to note the blue-gray light creeping
under the bedroom curtains. Then, like a 1950s television screen
coming on, objects in the bedroom gently come into view: bookshelf,
television, dresser. The neighbors' dog is yipping outside, and I hear
the wood-flute call of a mourning dove. Drowsily, I roll over and
look at my husband.


He is deeply asleep, his hand thrown outside the covers, and as I
move, he stirs slightly. Soon the clock radio will come on, and the
day will begin.


Last night, I dreamed of anxiety, something about being trapped
in a car in a traffic jam, in an agony of needing to be somewhere else.
The car was full of people who knew about my pain but could do
nothing about it. Their helpless sympathy made me unreasonably
angry. The dream was vivid; I can feel the aftermath of the anxiety
now, in the muscle tension in my stomach and back. The anxiety in
the dream was the diffused, free-floating type I associate with depression.
It seems odd, to dream about depressionthough no different,
I suppose, from having any other kind of dream-memory. Maybe a
person lost in schizophrenia dreams of normal life, of taking out the
garbage; I don't know. But the dreams always alarm me, because the
feelings in them seem so real. I am superstitious, afraid that merely
dreaming about them will release them, like an evil genie escaping
from a bottle. Anyway, as far as my brain is concerned, which <i>is</i> more
realthese dream feelings or the present, waking, moment?


Which is now, as David rolls over, half awake, and stretches out

[p. <i>278</i>]

This is the way my life is now.


It has been four years since that sunlit moment on Indiana
Avenue. The Prozac I started taking in 1990, and which I still take
today, has spawned books, television shows, and innumerable news
articles, as well as several "copycat" drugs. Until Prozac, antidepressants
were the chemical offspring of drugs originally developed to
treat other illnessestuberculosis, say, or hay fever; their effects on
depression were discovered by accident. Prozac is the first "designer"
antidepressant, developed to affect the specific neurotransmitter,

[p. <i>279</i>]

There are the wonder drugs of the 1990s, which scientists are
calling the Decade of the Brain, and they inspire awe and fear. To
me, awe seems fitting. Perhaps only someone who has experienced a
mental illness like the black free-fall of depressionwhich is not
even the worst mental illness there iscan really appreciate the magnitude
of this achievement. I started taking Prozac after more than a
year of a debilitating depression only partially relieved by traditional
antidepressants. Within weeks, that mental hurricane had stopped
dead in its tracks. I offer no proof; first X happened, and then Y. But
it is hard not to attribute that miracle to the little green-and-white
pills, difficult not to give them credit for the fact that since then,
I've lived something like a normal life. It's been a gift.


Maybe even a miracle. Prozac seems to offer a shortcut on that
old American journey, the pursuit of happiness. It promises social
assertiveness, relief from pesky personality quirks, a cheerful disposition
for the terminally crankybut at what cost? On the filing cabinet
in my study I have a <i>New Yorker</i> cartoon that explores what great
thinkers of the nineteenth century might have been like on Prozac.
My favorite is Edgar Allan Poe, greeting a raven with a sprightly
"Hello, birdie!" It sums up our ambivalence.


I'm ambivalent sometimes too. Will I pay a price for this normal
life sometime, somewherea cancerous tumor, a learning-disabled
child? I don't know. Nobody knows. I have rolled the dice,
I have made a gambler's bargain. To some, this seems a reckless venture

[p. <i>280</i>]

That doesn't stop a lot of people from taking this drugan estimated
four million in the United States alone. Yet government estimates
put the number of people who suffer from a serious depressive
episode in any given year at roughly ten million. Of that number,
fewer than half seek any medical treatment at all, preferring to suffer
in silence than risk the stigma of being diagnosed with a mental illness.
A respectable argument could be made that the problem isn't
too many people taking drugs for this illness, but too few. Yet the
debate over psychotropic drugs is based on a very different assumption:
that doctors are prescribing drugs like Prozac, Paxil, and Zoloft
with careless abandon to people who don't need it. We even have a
name for this: "cosmetic psychopharmacology"a term coined by
psychiatrist Peter Kramer to describe basically healthy people who
"are not so much cured of illness as transformed" by taking Prozac.
Kramer has taken pains to point out that patients seeking cosmetic
psychopharmacology are a minority in his practice, but few people
have heard that part of what he is saying. It's not surprising; our
speeded-up culture has trouble digesting complex information.


In fact, both sides may be right. Some peopleadventurers, those

[p. <i>281</i>]

The result of our misconceptions is the proliferation of myth.
People think these drugs are uppers, like amphetamines. In comic
strips, they are the latest self-indulgence for touchy-feely emotional
dilettantes. An op-ed piece in my own newspaper compares them to
worthless nineteenth-century patent medicines. At a private girls'
school in New Jersey, six teenagers get together, chop up some
Prozac capsules, and inhale the contents, trying to get high. And the
people who aren't looking for some illicit bliss in these drugs are suspicious
that everybody else is doing so behind their backs.


"I don't know about this Prozac," a man says to me at a party.
"Seems like everybody's taking it. Pretty soon I'll have to take it too,
just to keep up." He is only half joking.


I smile politely and sip my drink. Here is a person who has never
visited the featureless white room of mental illness, I think, who has
never formed an intimate acquaintance with the Beast. He has no
concept of what it means to go through an ordinary day hauling an
invisible 150-pound lead weightone you'd just as soon not discuss,
since its very presence constitutes a social embarrassment.


<i>Try being</i> that <i>person</i>, I want to tell him, <i>if you want to understand
what it means to live at a disadvantage. Try that for a while, and you'll
have something to fear</i>.

[p. <i>282</i>]

In the fall of 1975, I awoke in my dorm room at Emory University
in the grip of a dream. In it, I was in the basement of my old
house, which had been converted into a restaurant. The light was
glaring, the walls white and stark. I was eating something mushy
and brown, a food designed not to give pleasure but only to sustain
life. And then out of nowhere, I began to have a marvelous feeling
that I had a stupendous secret: it was spring outside.


I excused myself and slipped out the door. Outside was my
grandfather's old cornfield, the same field he had plowed so long ago
with Becky the mule. It was covered with the stubble of last year's
cornstalks; this year's planting had not yet begun. It was chilly, like
the day I followed behind him in the furrows of his plow, but there
was warmth in the sun. The earth was brown, the sky drab, but I
could hear music from somewhere. It was faint, but growing
stronger.


I took off my sweater and hat and shoes, feeling the earth slowly
warming beneath my feet, letting my hair go loose. And then wolves
appeared. They were my secret gods, my helpers; nobody but me
knew about them, but I had actually dared to name them. They were
dangerous, but I was not frightened. I felt supremely happy. I began
to run across the cornfield, the wolves loping along beside me as if we
were all part of the same pack, and the wild, strange music filled the
sky.


It is tempting to romanticize, to look back to say that dream presaged
my eventual triumph over the Beast. But there is no triumph
here, only wiser ways of fighting. I suspect that after all these years,
the Beast and I are life partners. But it's okay. I have an ordinary
lifeand though some might think this is dull, I tell you it is sweet.
Ordinary life is a miraculous thing.


There are times when the old despair seems to return, only to

[p. <i>283</i>]

And then it passes. "How are you feeling?" my friend Gus asks
me, leaning over my desk at work in a quiet moment. He looks at me
meaningfully. "Fine," I say blankly. "Why?" Then I remember: in
our last conversation over lunch, a week ago, I had said, "It seems
like I'll never really feel better." Now, a week later, I've already forgotten.
At home, going through papers on my desk, I find some
notes I jotted down a month earlier:
<cit>
<q>
</q></cit>

This anxiety is I think the worst of anything.
[It's] not attached to anythingthough I want to
focus it at David, to blame him somehow. He's having
a bad month himself. I feel guilty that I'm not
being more supportive to him. Fulfills my worst
fearsthat I am just not able to be a good wife ...
Goddamnit, I thought I was through with this shit. I
keep expecting happy endings. I should know better.


Reading this, I think: <i>Really?</i>


Or I stop by the desk of a friend in the Style section, to catch up.
He and I are charter members of the Kemistry Klub, an ad hoc organization
of Post employees who take psychotropic drugs. Membership
is anonymous, and meetings are held at the water cooler. One

[p. <i>284</i>]

"That hasn't happened in a long time," he says, patting his heart,
as if to calm its beating. "But, boy, the lizard ladyshe set me
back."


We laugh together the way war veterans do. I know exactly what
he meansthe dislocating sense of never knowing when something
really bad, really impossible to escape, may happen.


But it hasn't. And in the meantime, there is daily life, a fever of
activity which occasionally resolves into a moment of claritythe
warmth of my husband's body, an early morning slant of lightthat
shows me life is no tangled mystery, but simplicity itself. I navigate
cautiously; I will always need a map. I leave guideposts around,
reminders of what to do when I lose my way.


"Don't attempt big tasksdivide them into smaller ones," I will
write, and tape the note to my desk for times when I am distracted
and anxious. Or, in the infrequent dead times, I keep lists of everything
I've done on a particular day. <i>Look at this</i>, I say to myself at
night, bending over the bathroom sink to wash my face. <i>You accomplished
this today. Today was not so bad. Lighten up</i>.


I'm closing in on forty, the point at which youth stops being
taken for granted and becomes a relative term. It's too early for grand
summary statementsbut even so, I find myself weighing conclusions
about how much this illness has come to define me, and how
much I have imprinted my personality on it. I'm casting about for
some rule, some unifying principle, by which this puzzle of my life

[p. <i>285</i>]

I was born with a predisposition to suffer from depression. I was
also fated to grow up in a culture filled with anxietysome the
product of the times I lived in, some the product of the religious sensibilities
imposed on me by my parents, who were themselves transmitting
the culture they were born into. Part of it was the residual
fearfulness I sensed from my mother, who could not escape her own
past. And then there was a childhood accident which marred my face
just as I was entering adolescencea chance event, a unique stressor,
which forever altered my trajectory.


Over time, all these things worked togetherand, in doing so,
they permanently altered the "wiring" in my brain, which was not
perfectly "wired" to begin with. This is a way of thinking about
depression which scientists are exploring, which is known informally
as "kindling." It makes sense to me. It describes the way my brain
works in other spheresmastering an algebra problem in eighth
grade, learning to serve a tennis ball: a bombardment of stimuli, a
repeated reaction, the spark of comprehension, the eventual effortlessness
of what had once seemed foreign and impossible. Emotions,
I believe, are also partly learned. And can be relearnedwith help.


For me, help began with psychoactive drugs. Drugs were not a
miracle cure or a replacement for therapy; they were what enabled
me to derive the maximum benefit from therapy, which was hard
work. Drugs are tools, nothing morebut that is no small thing.
To a person scaling a cliff, a grappling hook is the difference between
life and death.


I make no summary statement, then; I only say that at one crucial
point, I chose life. It was an arduous choice, and I tried my best
to avoid it. When I could avoid it no longer, it came down to the

[p. <i>286</i>]

Which may be the reason why at all times I carry a scrap of paper
in my purse. It's something I wrote down one day, based on the six
goals I made for myself in those first months after I got out of the
hospital. It's not a magic formula, just something I scribbled on a
day when I needed a basic reminder of what keeps me on course.


Honesty in all things, large and small (social and
job exceptions as required).


When you are angry, express it, resolve it if possible,
then forget it. No grudges.


Admit mistakes promptly and make amends if
possible.


Help others. Be of service. Only in this way will
you find your way out of the prison of self.


Work hard at your profession. It's your most
valuable possession.


"The Rules," I have scrawled, in my bad handwriting, across the
top of the page, which is a much folded piece of green steno paper,
just like the paper I began my journal on many years ago. Once in a
while, this piece of paper turns up in the welter of dry-cleaning
receipts and coupons and business cards that accumulate in the bottom
of my purse. Every time, I look at it, thinking I should toss it.


And then, after a minute, I fold it up and put it back.

