Transcript of Audio File:
______________________________________________________________________________
BEGIN TRANSCRIPT:
CLIENT: Why did you switch to (inaudible at 00:00:04)?
THERAPIST: Oh because with the phone — I had been putting it into airplane mode.
CLIENT: Mm-hmm.
THERAPIST: So that it wouldn't ring.
CLIENT: Mm-hmm.
THERAPIST: But I found out that when I did that — I assumed it would just put calls to voice mail but it doesn't.
CLIENT: Oh.
THERAPIST: It actually says the person is unavailable to receive messages.
CLIENT: Oh.
THERAPIST: Which is not what I wanted to have happen (inaudible at 00:00:31) calling. (laughing)
CLIENT: (laughs) Fair enough.
THERAPIST: And if I didn't put it into airplane mode then it would ring.
CLIENT: Uh-huh.
THERAPIST: Or it wouldn't ring but it would interrupt the recording. So.
CLIENT: Fair enough. That sounds better.
THERAPIST: Although it looks possible that the issue with Blue Cross will be resolved.
CLIENT: Okay.
THERAPIST: But I should know more later today.
CLIENT: I hope so. And I'm nearing insurance resolution. I figured out what I need to do. I figured out who I need to talk to. I sent them the information. And now I'm just waiting for a letter saying, "Yes it's true. The insurance we offered does not cover your state." And then I can get insurance. [00:01:08]
THERAPIST: Well good.
CLIENT: So yeah. Whether I'll be able to do that in time to start in July or not — (inaudible at 00:01:15) figured out basically today.
THERAPIST: Right.
CLIENT: So.
THERAPIST: Gotcha.
CLIENT: So I'm feeling better about that.
THERAPIST: Good.
CLIENT: Yeah. Yeah. So Monday ended a lot better than it began because I — so I feel if I can get a certain amount done in a day then I'm okay at the end of the day. And if not then I'm not. But it's not actually an objective amount. It really is very much like a kind of internal thing.
THERAPIST: Mm-hmm.
CLIENT: So yesterday I was pretty just annoyed with myself all day or just not happy about where I was. Because all I did was stay at home and read up on American art history. Which to be fair is what I was supposed to do yesterday. (laughs) But somehow that doesn't count. [00:02:09]
THERAPIST: That's where the not objective part comes in. Yeah.
CLIENT: Yeah. I also didn't take my Adderall yesterday because apparently I'd forgotten that you're supposed to skip a dose every now and then to keep it working. And I just decided yesterday was the skipping a dose. And I ended up sleeping like half the day. So yeah it's — I get really anxious about the stuff that I need to do and whether I can do it. And whether I am doing it everyday. Yeah. (pause at [00:02:57] to 00:03:06) [00:03:06]
There is a lot of kind of magical thinking in it of course. But you know, it's like Monday I started out just feeling entirely helpless. And I ended the day feeling slightly less helpless. And so it was like I had done something. I had figured out the thing that I set out to figure out that day. And so it was okay. Tuesday — I don't know. I wanted to do more. I'd wanted to read more. I'd hoped that people would get back to me. And they didn't. But I don't know. So now (inaudible at 00:04:02). Yeah I've also been thinking probably way too much about the couch versus chair question. (laughs) I realized I'm trying very hard to get you to tell me what I should do but that's really not what you can do. (laughs) I kind of realized this yesterday. I was like —. [00:04:31]
THERAPIST: (inaudible) unfolding between us?
CLIENT: Well I just really — like it's scary but I think it might be better but I don't really know whether you perceive it as more helpful or not. And so I guess like I'm trying to get you to tell me what you think is more useful. But I'm realizing that if you — that I need to be the one in control of that situation. I mean from your perspective. And probably from mine too. (laughs) (inaudible at 00:05:09) I just — I. I like having people tell me what to do sometimes. So. So I mean I think would — I think we should keep trying it. Yes. Trying the couch. [00:05:32]
THERAPIST: Okay.
CLIENT: Maybe not today. But yeah. I don't know why it's so scary for me. Like I get scared before — I always get a little scared before my sessions. Always. But I — yeah. I mean it just is — it feels more vulnerable. And I don't know why.
THERAPIST: Mm. (pause at [00:06:12] to 00:06:25)
CLIENT: But at the same time it felt like — there is just a very different dynamic or like what I was talking about was very different. I don't know if that was what you perceived. I don't know. It obviously pulled something different out of me. So that seemed like it would be good. Maybe. But — you know. So. [00:06:56]
THERAPIST: Mm-hmm.
CLIENT: I've been thinking of that a lot.
THERAPIST: I see. And you've sort of been unsure what to do and feeling different ways about it. And wanting me to tell you and then imagining that you actually need to be the one who is in control and decides.
CLIENT: I think you think that. (laughs)
THERAPIST: (laughs) I see. (inaudible at 00:07:44)
CLIENT: In part because of the way you've reacted when I've asked you to tell me what to do. And in part trying to think about it from the therapist's point of view. It's probably — if it's something that's really scary for me it's probably better for me to be the person who says, "Let's do this." [00:08:10]
THERAPIST: Mm.
CLIENT: Yeah. That's what I think anyway.
THERAPIST: I mean — I don't know yet.
CLIENT: Okay. (laughs)
THERAPIST: I might at some point have an opinion.
CLIENT: Okay.
THERAPIST: Which would be my opinion as opposed to a directive I think.
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: Don't know yet.
CLIENT: Okay. Well thanks. That helps.
THERAPIST: Sure.
CLIENT: Yeah. James found — so one of the things that we talked about a lot last week was where James's career is going and what he wants to be doing. And it sounds like he wants to stay an academian at this point. But he doesn't want to be in — he probably doesn't want to be in a top ten school. [00:09:21]
THERAPIST: Mm-hmm.
CLIENT: Like he wants to be doing his own research. Teaching undergraduates at a good small school. And so as we were talking about it he was like — Berkeley was the example that he gave of this would be the perfect — like this would be someplace I would really love to be.
THERAPIST: Right. Right.
CLIENT: So then he was looking at job postings and day before yesterday Berkeley had posted a job posting for a biomechanical engineer to start in 2013.
THERAPIST: Oh really?
CLIENT: Yeah. So it was exactly the same situation that I was in three weeks ago. It was like, "I have to apply right? I'm not going to get it but I have to apply to this."
THERAPIST: He won't get it because they'll want somebody (inaudible at 00:10:04) doc?
CLIENT: Basically yeah. He didn't say I won't get it. I kind of — he kind of said I have a very small chance of getting it. But I mean they're not requiring that you have a post doc to apply. And so he seemed really excited. And it seems like — I think it will be a really good thing for him to have something to get up in the morning for. [00:10:37]
THERAPIST: Uh-huh.
CLIENT: Other than I want to be with Tanya. Which is true but it's like that's the way — that's what he's been getting up for the last two years. And at this point he'd hoped to be done by now when he started. So that's something that I think it more feels like I've already failed in this and I need to pick it up. Yeah. Of course in that conversation I realized there is no way he's going to be done by the summer.
THERAPIST: Oh really?
CLIENT: Yeah he's shooting for a May graduation.
THERAPIST: And will he need to stay there until he's done? I mean (inaudible at 00:11:26) all the way through?
CLIENT: Basically. It varies. It's kind of under how can he leave with the best record possible? [00:11:44]
THERAPIST: Uh-huh.
CLIENT: And so the longer he stays the more time he and Kevin have to do stuff. And get new papers out.
THERAPIST: Yeah.
CLIENT: And maybe start a new project and so forth. And it's hard for me. I told him that it was important that I tell him this and it was true that he doesn't need to apologize to me for his degree taking longer than he thought it would. He really doesn't. It's not his fault. As an outside observer it's easier for me to say, "All those days that you just couldn't get out of bed those aren't on you. That's not you not working hard enough." That's collateral damage basically. But I was just really disappointed to say, "Okay well now we're going to be waiting longer." [00:13:00] (pause till 00:13:12)
THERAPIST: Sure.
CLIENT: Yeah. (pause at [00:13:17] to 00:13:25) Yeah I mean spending time with James, like actually with him, for more than a day or two — things are just easier for me when he's there. And I haven't really ever thought about it in those terms. Even — I mean we've been long distance for five years. I've basically been living on my own that whole time and thinking I'm perfectly competent to do this. And I like this. And this is fine. (pause at [00:14:13] to 00:14:25) So I don't really like thinking, "Man I just really wish James was here to take care of me." (chuckles) [00:14:31]
THERAPIST: You? No.
CLIENT: (laughs) Yeah. (pause at [00:14:36] to 00:14:47) I'm barely sure how I feel about him being so willing to take care of me when we are together. (pause at [00:14:55] to 00:15:13) Yeah. Yeah I mean I don't like that I want him with me more when I feel like I can deal with the necessities of my life less. I don't know. (pause at [00:15:41] to 00:16:00) Yeah. I mean — so May. [00:16:13]
THERAPIST: Yeah. Instead of like December or January?
CLIENT: Yeah. Which actually in some ways makes my decisions easier because it means that I basically — I don't need to plan to find a place to live where James is also going to be living.
THERAPIST: Like an apartment?
CLIENT: Yeah. So it's more likely probably that I'll find a place with roommates which I — (laughs)
THERAPIST: How do you really feel about that?
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: Yeah.
CLIENT: You know it seems like I'll be able to find everything except the privacy.
THERAPIST: Mm-hmm.
CLIENT: Something I can afford. Something that will be in the area. Probably living with really nice people. [00:17:16]
THERAPIST: But it won't be James.
CLIENT: Exactly. Yeah. I just have so much stuff. I have so much kitchenware.
THERAPIST: Right.
CLIENT: Oh my gosh. I mean I love it and would not give it up for the world. But God I have so much — like James and I each have—. Like we split up our kitchen stuff pretty much halfway.
THERAPIST: Oh really?
CLIENT: And each of us is fully equipped. (laughs)
THERAPIST: Mm-hmm.
CLIENT: I don't — I'm not super excited about the idea of living in somebody else's space for a year.
THERAPIST: Mm-hmm.
CLIENT: But it'll be a lot easier. And possible as opposed to trying to get approval for an apartment when I don't have a job. [00:18:23]
THERAPIST: Mm-hmm.
CLIENT: Which seems highly unlikely that that will even happen.
THERAPIST: I see. You mean if you were to (inaudible at 00:18:31) by yourself?
CLIENT: Yeah. Yeah. I mean it's already — as it is I need to have my parents co-sign my lease which is so humiliating. (laughs) But I don't think there is any way that anybody would rent me an apartment where I stand now. So. So yeah in some ways I'd rather have the things that's going to really suck but at least I won't have to worry about it anymore. [00:19:14]
THERAPIST: Mm-hmm.
CLIENT: I need to talk to James about that. Yeah. (pause at [00:19:28] to 00:19:42) I can't let these things go. I have a really — I mean feeling so unstable. I can't stop thinking about the things that are unstable. And the things that are insecure. I can't —
THERAPIST: You mean like the apartment or like couch versus chair?
CLIENT: (laughs) More the apartment than couch versus chair. That's the — that's okay. But like apartment and job and insurance. [00:20:24]
THERAPIST: Mm-hmm.
CLIENT: Yeah. Except I think that's not quite true. Because I can stop thinking about them but it's only when I am kind of in vacation mode. So like last night I'm just getting increasingly anxious as the day goes on and so I was like, "Okay I need to watch some TV." So I watched some TV and then I felt better until I stopped watching TV. (chuckles)
THERAPIST: Mm-hmm.
CLIENT: Yesterday was James's and my anniversary.
THERAPIST: Oh! Congratulations! Happy anniversary.
CLIENT: Yeah. Thanks. A lot of people have sent us e-mails congratulating us. I was really surprised. I don't remember anybody else's anniversary. But yeah. So we looked through our wedding album together. We have two copies of it. [00:21:42]
THERAPIST: Mm-hmm.
CLIENT: Talked about it. And it was really nice actually.
THERAPIST: Mm-hmm.
CLIENT: Yeah. Yeah. This time I remembered a lot more of the hell that led up to the wedding.
THERAPIST: (chuckles)
CLIENT: Than the actual day being really good. (laughs) But yeah. Felt good. I mean so the first page is like pictures from — not really my bachelorette party but my bridesmaids had a party for me. And I was like, "Oh yeah. That was a terrible day." (laughter) Right up until that party that evening I was crying all day. (laughs) But yeah.
THERAPIST: What happened?
CLIENT: I don't quite remember. I was — planning the wedding was really not good for me. I was so anxious about keeping everybody happy and there were all these logistical details that I am not good at and I didn't think were going to get done. And it was one of those like all of this stuff had to happen and I had no idea how it was going to happen. [00:23:01]
And it did happen. Again I don't know these things happen. We had — James and I. It was like we had stuff to do and we were running late. And I — (sighs) — yeah I cried everyday that week. (pause at [00:23:32] to 00:23:41) Yeah I was so overwhelmed. But again then vacation mode and everything is okay. (chuckles) By that time.
THERAPIST: Mm-hmm. (pause at [00:23:56] to 00:24:24)
CLIENT: Sorry I'm — (chuckles). I just I don't know how people do this. So my roommate is having these medical problems. [00:24:49]
THERAPIST: Right.
CLIENT: Has some G.I. mess.
THERAPIST: G.I., yeah.
CLIENT: And she — as it turns out I talked to her last night. And she had a doctor's appointment yesterday. And they said, "Well there the MRI showed that there is something going on but we don't know what it is." (laughs)
THERAPIST: (inaudible at 00:25:08)
CLIENT: "And it might be Crohn's disease. But it might not be."
THERAPIST: Right.
CLIENT: "And it might be a tumor but it's probably not." And she was like really, really scared about that. And I said, "Look. When I had my thyroid there was a less than 5 percent chance that I might have cancer. And they made me get all of these biopsies and then there was a less than 2 percent chance that I might have cancer and they still wanted to take my thyroid out."
THERAPIST: Right.
CLIENT: "So if there is a risk of cancer they're not going to leave that alone. Don't worry about it. If he thinks it's a serious thing." So that I think helped her. But I get frustrated with her because she just really doesn't want this to be happening to her. Like she really doesn't want it. And so she was complaining that the MRI was almost as bad as a colonoscopy could be. She still had to drink this disgusting stuff and it took all day. And she came home and threw up and then had to sleep. [00:26:21]
THERAPIST: Yeah. Right.
CLIENT: And she was like, "I just really don't want to do another MRI." Which is like in a month and half. They were like, "Well, you're getting better. So we can't give you medicine for Crohn's disease because then we won't know if you're getting better because of the medicine or on your own."
THERAPIST: Right.
CLIENT: "So in a month and a half come back and we'll give you another MRI."
THERAPIST: Right.
CLIENT: And she's like, "I just don't want them to do that." I just want to say, "Look. This is going to be the rest of your life. The rest of everybody's life. As you get old your body starts to break down and you have to go to the hospital. And you have to get a lot of shitty tests done. And it sucks a lot. And the alternative is just not ever getting medical treatment and dying. But this is the way things are." And yeah it's like it's really scary — this is the first time that she's ever been sick. [00:27:21]
THERAPIST: Mm-hmm. Yeah.
CLIENT: And I remember very clearly kind of like going through some of the same things when my thyroid started to mess up.
THERAPIST: Mm-hmm.
CLIENT: Although I mean with the depression and wedding planning and grad school applications that was actually like the least of my worries.
THERAPIST: (laughs)
CLIENT: (laughs) Maybe I have cancer. Not that big of a deal. (laughs)
THERAPIST: Right. (laughter) The florist is giving me trouble. (inaudible at 00:27:52)
CLIENT: (laughing) Way more important. Well my mom did the flowers. Actually that was the case. (laughs) But — I don't know. I get — but I want to tell her just learn to deal with it. This is what everybody has to deal with. It's hard and I know it sucks but this is what everybody's life is like. And I feel like I'm kind of in a similar situation. I don't know how everybody does these things. [00:28:35]
But this is what life is like. These are the things that people have to deal with. This is what I have to deal with. It's okay for me to be — to wish it weren't the case. And wish I didn't have to go through this. But oh well I do. (pause at [00:29:01] to 00:29:11)What I actually do with Kirsten is listen and say, "Yeah I know that really sucks." And figure that she'll come to the "this is what life is like" on her own over time. Yeah. [00:29:31] (pause till 00:29:51)
THERAPIST: Not always so easy for you to be sympathetic with yourself.
CLIENT: (crying or chuckling) Yeah. Well you know it's — Kirsten doesn't know what I'm thinking so I can say things.
THERAPIST: I'm not talking about being sympathetic to her.
CLIENT: I know. Oh no no. I know. But what I mean is I know what I'm thinking. (laughs)
THERAPIST: Yeah.
CLIENT: So like I do give myself those pep talks. (laughs)
THERAPIST: I got it yeah.
CLIENT: (laughs) But like it is okay that I really just don't want this to be happening to me. I really just don't want these to be my choices. I — yeah. It's okay that I feel this way but it doesn't make the choices go away. So I've just got to step up. [00:30:50]
(pause till 00:31:51)
THERAPIST: I see. You're saying that as a way to assuage that anxiety you feel about how little control you have about things actually are going? [00:32:08] (pause till 00:32:14)
CLIENT: I don't know. Maybe. (pause at [00:32:20] to 00:32:30)
THERAPIST: I imagine that all sorts of things about things are going and what you have to deal and little control you have over it. I mean —
CLIENT: Yeah. Yeah I'm —
THERAPIST: It's so scary. So frustrating. Puts you in such a vulnerable position. I imagine feels humiliating at times or shameful. Like awful.
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: And I guess I think you sort of have a pretty strong impulse to buck up I think. [00:33:20]
CLIENT: Yeah. I kind of alternate between feeling as though it's entirely out of my control and in some ways that makes me feel better because then it's not my fault that I'm in this position. But then I'm just so helpless. But then it's also when I run into something that I feel like I can't do and I just throw myself at it usually it happens. I did in fact get married. (chuckles) And —.
THERAPIST: And into grad school.
CLIENT: And into grad school. And so on and so forth. So yeah. So trying to kind of say, "Well I feel like I don't have any control but I do actually have control. I just have to do it right." I just have to keep working. But then I get angry with myself because I'm not already there. Because I'm not working. Because it's hard. And because things that I do and the choices that I make either don't help or make things worse. Yeah. I kind of see saw there. [00:34:58]
THERAPIST: And you've gotten I think pretty focused on the products and outcomes.
CLIENT: Yes. (laughs)
THERAPIST: You did get married and that's very hard to pull together. It's a lot of work with all the other things that you're saying were going on at the time. It also kind of sucks that you're crying everyday before the wedding. Or the party.
CLIENT: Yeah. Yeah. I wish I had (inaudible at 00:35:45).
THERAPIST: And that it sounds as though like part of (inaudible at 00:35:50) is that's the side of things (inaudible) do stuff. You pulled the wedding together but you know you were having a pretty tough time I guess before it. [00:36:12]
CLIENT: Mm-hmm.
THERAPIST: And that was — it sounds like somewhat helpless about that.
CLIENT: Yeah. I mean we could've eloped. And in retrospect after it was too late we decided we should've done that.
THERAPIST: Uh-huh.
CLIENT: That's what we tell everybody that we know is engaged. (laughs)
THERAPIST: (laughs)
CLIENT: But you know we wanted our family there. And my family is 175 people so —. (laughs)
THERAPIST: Yep.
CLIENT: Yeah. (pause at [00:36:56] to 00:37:05) Yeah I have a hard time telling what I should hold myself accountable for and what I can't. And what's not fair to. (pause at [00:37:14] to 00:37:28) It helps — I occasionally I forget and then I'm reminded that things are actually harder for me than they are for a lot of people. [00:37:36]
Like I am in a harder situation than many people. And okay. Okay. That's okay then. But still like these are my choices. This is the situation. (pause at [00:37:51] to 00:38:05) Yeah. I just have to go make a lot of phone calls and harass people. And yeah. (pause at [00:38:14] to 00:38:26) I'm not very good at the harassing people part.
THERAPIST: Uh-huh.
CLIENT: (laughs)
THERAPIST: Well and what gets tough, I think, is that the orientation to what you need to do and to sort of bucking up and getting things done puts you at more distance from how you feel until the point where the feelings get so overwhelming they prevent you from doing things. And then —. [00:39:00]
CLIENT: Yes. (laughs) That is exactly what happens.
THERAPIST: And that's bad news because then not only are you feeling really bad but you don't have access to the way you cope.
CLIENT: Mm-hmm.
THERAPIST: Which is to get things done. I'm not saying getting things done doesn't also have other uses.
CLIENT: (laughs) No it's definitely the way I cope with things.
THERAPIST: But it's kind of like then you're really kind of fucked in that you're sort of feeling really bad and stripped of the thing that's protected you to that point.
CLIENT: Yeah. Yeah. (pause at [00:39:41] to 00:39:50)
THERAPIST: And I think obviously most of this happens out of awareness. Like you're kind of telling yourself to buck up or stay focused on what needs to get done. Or sort of working hard to get it done under stressful or last minute conditions or whatever. Without realizing that you're so focused on that and away from how you're feeling. I think. [00:40:27]
CLIENT: Yeah. Well and it's — . (pause at [00:40:31] to 00:40:43) It's — I get very, very quickly to the point where if I think about how I'm feeling or focus on that it is overwhelming and I can't do anything.
THERAPIST: Mm.
CLIENT: I am helpless. Yeah. So there is not — I mean in this last period of being pretty depressed — like I don't know how to do the things that I want. I mean one of the effects of that is that like after talking with you it takes me a long time to get to a place where I can work. And if I'm working before I come to talk with you I'm kind of useless. Or probably (inaudible) saying that. (laughs) [00:41:58]
THERAPIST: You've been working and you come here and you feel like you've been useless here.
CLIENT: Yeah. It's hard for me —
THERAPIST: (inaudible at 00:42:06) prepared in a way or something?
CLIENT: Yeah. Yeah. Kind of like unattached myself from the things that I'm doing. Yeah. (pause at [00:42:23] to 00:42:41) Everything I'm — most of the time everything I'm feeling is telling me I can't do the things that I have to do. I feel so helpless. And so I have to disengage from that to not be helpless. You know? [00:43:06]
THERAPIST: I see. Yes it's pretty impossible.
CLIENT: It feels like that. But yeah.
THERAPIST: You can't really (inaudible at 00:43:22) it.
CLIENT: Yeah. Like on Monday I got up and I had a list of very specific things I need to do. And I probably have to go.
THERAPIST: Just about. Yeah.
CLIENT: And I had list of very specific things to do and the overwhelming feeling that I could not do anything at all. And I had to kind of set that down to get things done on my list.
THERAPIST: Mm-hmm.
CLIENT: But because the list was specific enough I could do that. [00:43:54]
THERAPIST: Right.
CLIENT: You know.
THERAPIST: But you really had to disengage.
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: Yeah. (pause at [00:44:02] to 00:44:10)
CLIENT: But after I did things I felt better.
THERAPIST: Right.
CLIENT: Eventually. I had to talk with James and he said, "Oh! So you've fixed this?" And oh yeah I guess. (laughs) So.
THERAPIST: Yeah we should stop for now.
CLIENT: Okay.
THERAPIST: We'll talk more tomorrow. Also scheduling wise the (inaudible at 00:44:40).
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: Are you around next week?
CLIENT: I am. Yes.
THERAPIST: We didn't talk about this yet, did we? I'm out just on the 4th but around otherwise.
CLIENT: Okay. Okay. What day is the 4th?
THERAPIST: The 4th is Wednesday.
CLIENT: Okay.
THERAPIST: So I have that Friday time again on the 6th at eleven forty-five if that's any good? [00:45:05]
CLIENT: That would be great actually if that's okay.
THERAPIST: Okay. So the Monday, Thursday, Friday.
CLIENT: At eleven forty-five?
THERAPIST: Yeah.
CLIENT: Okay. That's good. That four-thirty time slot I always feel so bad that we're both — that you're here on a Friday afternoon. (laughs)
THERAPIST: Oh really?
CLIENT: Yeah. I don't know. (laughs)
THERAPIST: Okay.
CLIENT: I just want you to be able to go home. (laughs)
THERAPIST: (laughs)
CLIENT: Have a good day.
THERAPIST: Thank you. You too. [00:45:37] [End of audio]
END TRANSCRIPT
