*TEXT-PV010264  13 January 1970        2349
______________________________________________________________________________
PATIENT: (Sniff, Silence) When I came in today, ou—, from outside, uhm, it seems like it — I recalled how I used to feel last year, especially on Thursday evenings when I had a class to go to.  And it seems like it's one of the first times I've recalled it when I've come here, or really thought about it, or at least thought about it when I came in here.  And I, I don't know whether it's because today I started the uhm, typing the final copy of the reports.  And when I was recalling the class last year, I was also thinking of that time when reports were due and I had papers due for the course, and felt miserable about teaching.  And I was just sort of recalling the whole feeling.
And I, I don't know,almost wondering how do I ever, did it last year?  (Sniff, Pause) And it seems to me that, the fact I recalled that has something to do with my typing the reports now.  Because I know when I started today, I w—, I knew I had to get started right away, if I'm going to get them done as early as I want to.  But, I was kind of nervous about it, and I was aware I could have put it off and put it off.  I could have found all sorts of things to do.  And then when I started, I, I don't know, it was almost as if I'd lost ground that I'd felt when I was writing them.  Because when I was writing them I didn't sort of check and cross check and recheck things that I used to in the past.  It was almost as if I trusted myself more.
But now, while typing, I keep wondering is, if I'm fitting every single possible thing in.  Or if other reports have been better in some way than mine.  And (Clears throat), I don't know, I find myself constantly telling myself it doesn't matter.  Mine might be good in one way and others good in another, and I should just do what I have right there, now.  And, I don't know, almost as if I'm trying to force myself to be more realistic about it. (Sniff, Pause)
And I, I was just thinking of some other part of it, too.  The, I think I used to be bothered more by uhm, the part of the report which breaks the different subjects down.  And now I feel more casual about how I write and what terminology I use for saying what the child's doing.  But on the back of these reports we're supposed to make general comments about their progress or adjustment or problems, or whatever.  And this particular time in writing them it seems as if I'm feeling very rigid in the way I approach it.  In that, as I recall, FHYZ used to do them, they used to be much more, I don't know, sort of casual, or I don't know just what. 
But this is where I'm feeling, I think, most insecure right now.  Because in a way I do do it rigidly.  I talk about their adjustment to academic things, and then their social adjustment.  And it's almost like I have a little paragraph for every little thing.  And, I don't know, it's, it's giving me the feeling, although I think I'm saying pretty much what used to be said by FHYZ or by other teachers.  I somehow have the feeling, because I do do it in a rather rigid way, that it must mean mine are inferior.  Or else it's, I don't know, maybe a formal tone to it too, that bothers me.  As if it gives the feeling of somebody who's — has a very cold relationship with the child.  And I don't feel that, I don't always feel I don't have one, but I sometimes feel that at least it's not as cold as the reports are giving it.  And I don't know how to do it any other way.
I suppose when I think of tho—, this particular part of what's bothering me, this tone, I'm thinking of another teacher.  The one that used to teach where FBS is.  Because I used to admire the way she was very warm with the children, and her reports reflected it. (3-minute silence)
I was thinking of something else that uh, was on my mind during school today.  And I, I don't know, I'm not too sure exactly what it all is, except it's something to do with what I am feeling confused about, concerning having the children follow directions, or how much — I don't know what word to use except freedom, should be given them.  Or, sort of, I guess, unstructured situations. 
And (Clears throat) I, I don't know whether — I knew the headmaster was going to be coming in at some point during the day, and I don't know whether this was why.  Or whether just this is what happens to me when I'm beginning to think about the fact parents' day is coming up.  But in any case, I know I was much stricter with the children.  And I'm not sure whether it's meaningful to be so or not.  And that's what bothers me.  Or I can't always judge, I know sometimes it's meaningful, but I don't know that right now I can judge when it is and when it isn't. 
But I think there was an aspect of — it's true for when I think about parents' day, and it was true for thinking about the headmaster being there.  I get really panicked that I might ask the children to do something, and they won't.  But then other times, something like their,  sometimes they come and sit down in a space in the front of the room for any oral activities.  And usually when they come up, they're talking and so forth, and they don't quiet down immediately.  And sometimes that won't bother me.  But then, other times I want them to be immediately quiet.  And today was one of those days. 
And I don't know, well it's really more a fear that I might ask them for their attention and they won't give it.  And so then the way I can insure I'll get it, is to make sure they follow every single direction, and that I'm giving lots of them and that I'm very strict about their following them.  Because then they can't move without paying attention to me. (Pause)
Another thing that I, I wonder now, I don't think I thought it at school, uhm, is how much the way I was today had to do with where I left off yesterday.  Because I have thought every once in a while throughout the day, that I'd like to understand more about how I do feel about myself as a woman. And yesterday I know, I felt very much that the time here ended, oh, I don't know if I could say in the middle of something, because it always does.  But it was almost more as if I hadn't really even started, and the time ended. (Sniff, Pause)
ANALYST: Well, I think it's true that you, uh, made it clear on a number of occasions, that you uh, you have difficulty at school when you're troubled about yourself.  That you're troubled about the children when you're concerned about something in yourself.  And I think one of the questions is, if you feel that you left off in the middle and that you did think about it from time to time today, you still come back to it reluctantly.
PATIENT: (Silence, Sniff) It's a strange feeling, too, because I very much, while I was thinking about it outside of being here, wanted to understand more what I might have gotten to, if the time had been longer yesterday.  And yet now, I find it's very hard to think about it. (3-minute silence)
I don't know whether it's because I have a habit of not thinking about it, or if there's something particular I don't want to face.  But my thoughts just keep either going over and over, I don't know where to start in thinking about it.  Or else I start thinking about school and things like what will we be doing tomorrow, or something I saw happen today.  But, I mean, nothing I'm really concerned about. (Pause)
In fa— (Mumbled), it made me think of how I felt this morning when I woke up.  And I mean, it really — I think it had something to do with a dream.  And I also felt as if it had been the same thing I'd woken up on Monday morning.  But I don't, well, even this morning when I was more conscious of it than I had been Monday morning, I didn't know how to put it into words when I thought about it.  It was g—, the only way I can think to explain it, but I don't think this is really it, is as if I were in a million pieces, or lots of pieces. (Silence)
And I keep thinking — this is really far-fetched, except something to this effect occurred to me this morning, too, that the feeling I didn't have, was a feeling, I don't know whether it was of having a vagina or of just the whole of me would be one.  And so that it makes what I was feeling, almost as if I were feeling that I were lots of penises.  (3-minute silence)
I find myself thinking about school again, but thinking about things that did occur today.  And i—, it was all incidents where I was trying to somehow control individual boys. (Silence)
I just thought of something else, too.  I don't know whether it has anything to do with how I was feeling today.  Or if it had a lot to do with it.  Uhm, but FBS (Clears throat) was absent today, and she had really made plans to be absent yesterday.  And so it was just a question of whether she'd feel guilty or not about being absent.  And I know my first thought yesterday too, was — and then again today when she was actually absent, was that I don't know whether she felt absolutely terrific, but she was ju—, really wanting to just stay home and work on reports.  Because I know she hadn't started.  And, today when I found out she was absent, I kept telling myself, well maybe she was really sick, so I wouldn't just feel angry that she just stayed home to work on reports, which is something I would like to do, but wouldn't. 
And then I didn't really think about it.  And I didn't feel the same kind of angry feelings that I have other years, when I've known, because FBS, and then the teacher she worked with, too when she was there as an assistant, both used to plan times when each one could be absent.  And i—, w—, I mean, they had a different attitude toward it than I've ever had.  And so then, I used to always jump to the c—, same conclusion, that they were not really needing to be absent, they just wanted to be.  (Clears throat)  But today I seem to, I don't know, not know what to think, I guess, and I don't know whether I really felt angry or not.  (Silence)
ANALYST: You know what strikes me, is that today more than most of the times recently, you seem to be doing most of your thinking to yourself instead of saying it out loud.  I wonder why?
PATIENT: Well, I think I've been very aware of fighting something.  Either fighting that I want to think about something and I'm not thinking about it.  Or else aware that what I am thinking about I, isn't really important to me, except that it's easy to think about.  And then I'm fighting thinking about that.  And —
ANALYST: What's the matter you feel you're avoiding?
PATIENT: Well, the time I felt, the only time today I've really felt the resistance was when I started talking about what I was thinking of yesterday.  Ending up with wondering how I felt about myself as a woman.  And then, when I recalled how I felt this morning and yesterday morning and, whatever it was, the dream or whatever it was.  (Pause)
ANALYST: Well, you know again you do say, you mention again that you had been thinking something, at any rate.  And then when you begin to think of these things here, you find yourself reluctant here.  So again, it sounds like it's me.
PATIENT: Well, I don't understand how it could be.  Because it, when I wasn't here, what I would think is, simply, there's a subject I'd like to know more about.  Or, I don't know, it just suddenly come into my mind, yesterday I was almost, got into something about how I feel about myself, and I then didn't.  I hope I can today.  Or, I mean, it wasn't that I thought thoughts about these things, so much as just thinking almost, I hope I talk about it today, or something like that.  And, I know with the way I felt this morning, I'd quickly put it out of my mind.
Well, at least for 2 particular things, it's really 1 thing, I suppose, I feel as if it's me that I don't want to have know whatever it is, not you. (Silence) 
ANALYST: Hmm.
PATIENT: And I was just thinking that its — whether or not I d—, I don't know, because sometimes I protest things and then I find out I was wrong.  But it still seems to me that it's me I don't want to know these things, and if it were you, I can usually, once you point it out, overcome whatever it is and start thinking whatever I'm trying to avoid, or saying whatever I didn't want to say.  And today I just keep feeling I can't, I just can't get anywhere. (Pause)
ANALYST: Well, our time's up.
