TRANSCRIPT OF AUDIO FILE:
______________________________________________________________________________
<b>BEGIN TRANSCRIPT:</b>
THERAPIST: Hi, come on in.
CLIENT: How you doing?
THERAPIST: Good, thank you.
CLIENT: Holidays were good.
THERAPIST: Yeah?
CLIENT: Yeah. I spent, you know, a lot of time with my girlfriend. You know, just getting back on track and see what's going on. And so, it was a good time. You know, and we just spent this, you know, New Year's together and it was pretty good. So, you know, everything, you know, has been going well in my life. It's been, you know, kind of positive, you know, but then again, there's still some negativity going on. Yeah, it's just – it's weird. My grandmother came up last weekend and she's been in the hospital since she's been up here. And she's not really doing well and –
THERAPIST: This is your dad's mom?
CLIENT: My dad's mom, yeah. It's my only grandparent that's alive.
THERAPIST: I see.
CLIENT: So, you know, everyone's gone to see her and I just haven't made any attempt to go see her. Have no desire to go see her. I don't know, in a way I kind of feel bad, but I kind of don't. All my siblings have gone to see her; my dad, my mom. And I'm kind of the only one that doesn't go.
THERAPIST: Really.
CLIENT: I make up excuses. I mean, I am busy with soccer and stuff. But, you know, I guess normal children or grandchildren make time to see their grandparent. But I just have no desire to. I guess she's doing really bad. It just doesn't concern me. I'm like an outsider. I just go by what people tell me, so –
THERAPIST: Are your siblings, in general, less angry at her? Is that – or are they just –
CLIENT: I don't know.
THERAPIST: [inaudible ].
CLIENT: I don't know. I can't answer for them. I don't know how they feel. I know there's been a lot of hurt from my grandmother towards them. I don't know if they've been hurt as bad as I have been. I guess they do make an attempt to see her. You know, I mean, I think they do it for my dad's sake. Just so he doesn't go alone and to make it look like somebody actually cares about her, but, I don't know. I just – I have no desire to see her. I don't know why. I guess [inaudible ]. I talked about it with my girlfriend and she kind of understands where I'm coming from. I mean, she only knows what I told her happened, but I mean, again, I can see her being supportive of me. But, you know, she tries to tell me to go see her and, you know, do the right thing and all that stuff. And I'm, like, yeah, yeah, yeah, and I just don't do it. She even offered to go with me. And I just, like, you don't have to [inaudible ]. I don't know. I just – there's a part of me that's just – it's not there. It's not there and I don't know if it's – I don't know because she missed so many years of my life. Never made an attempt to, you know, get to know me and want to know me. You know, I just – I don't have the desire to see her. I guess it's not a priority of mine.
You know, it's just – and I think about it and I feel a lot of guilt, but then I'll forget about it. Like, when everyone's going to see her I'm just, like, okay. And I know I'm not doing anything. But I'd rather go do something else than go see my grandmother who's, you know, potentially dying. So I just have no explanation for it. I have no, you know, emotional attachment towards her. I guess you could say that and –
THERAPIST: Well, I would actually maybe – what do you think about this, that you do, it's just a negative attachment? It doesn't seem like you're – well, it sounds like in part, you're indifferent, in part, you're kind of disappointed and angry and you're just like, forget it.
CLIENT: Well, it's kind of to the point, like, I don't really know her. Like, I've never really gotten to know my grandmother like my mom's mom, where I was with her used to enjoy, you know, spending quality time with her grandchildren. Where, you know, seeing one grandparent who loves you unconditionally and adores you. And another one that just keeps kicking you. You know, like, get away from me, you know. I mean, she never physically abused me or did anything that, but like, the emotional toll on a child, just not coming to birthdays. We could never do right. Constantly criticizing us because we were overweight, you know, stuff like that. It just – there was nothing – never any positive that came from it.
THERAPIST: Criticizing you for being overweight?
CLIENT: Oh yeah. My whole family – my whole family, like me, my sister and my older brother when we younger were overweight, you know. And my grandmother used to, you know, criticize my dad and criticize my mom, tell us we were too fat. We always need to be on diets. You know, still to this day, I mean, at my grandmother's ninetieth birthday a couple of months ago told my girlfriend she needs to get me on a diet. Like, it's just the negative stuff like that, that just keeps coming. Like, she's not proud of anything that we do or any of that. And then the other day, my sister went and saw her and she goes, "how's my baby doing?" And my sister says, "I don't have a baby." She said, "no, your brothers." She thinks I have a kid. You know, but it's my cousin who has a child. Then it's just – I just don't understand the fact now that I think she's coming to the end where she's trying to – she constantly asking about us and seeing how we're doing, when before, she just couldn't care less. And I guess it's kind of frustrating that now she wants to take an interest in our lives, but when we were younger and just, you know, wanted some love, we couldn't get any.
THERAPIST: Feel like a too little, too late?
CLIENT: Too little, too late, exactly. You know, it's to the point where, you know, you never made an attempt to reach out to me. You know, you never wanted – and I also think when I was growing up too that the relationship with my dad's mother was kind of forced on us a lot. Because we knew she didn't really want to see us. But, like, for holidays and stuff when my mother wouldn't go, we were forced to go with my dad even though we didn't want to. It's kind of frustrating because I look back on it and I'm, like, well, we did do it for my dad and all this stuff. But I guess you're right; I did have a lot of negative energy towards my dad's family just because we were never shown the love that my mom's side showed to us. Where everyone actually cared about, you know, our accomplishments, seeing us grow older, seeing us develop as people. But my dad's side was just, whatever, we'd see them once in a while and that was it. On my mom's side, we'd see at least once a week.
So I guess right there, is just the difference of, you know, my emotional attachment towards my dad's family as opposed to my mom's family. I never really got to personally interact with them I guess as often as I would have liked. And I don't know, I think that's where, you know, a lot of my negativity comes from; is just being surrounded by it. And it is frustrating because I do see my tendencies where there's certain people where I'm just, like, you know, I want nothing to do with. Even though they are close to me, you know, I'd like them to be close to me, but in my mind, in my heart, there's just something about it that just will not let me open up to it. And again, that's why I'm here as I'm trying to figure that out. I'm trying to get rid of a lot of my negative energy and have more positive and be more open-minded.
Again, thinking more logically than reactionary. And I, you know, I will say that my reactionary decision making has subsided a little bit which is good. I'm now processing a lot more. But then again, there's just – there's certain trigger words and I don't know what it is, and I don't even know what the words are, but as soon as, like, certain subjects come up, I just, I black out and I get enraged. And I don't like it and I see myself apologizing after. And it's just, it's frustrating. It's subsided a little bit, but it's still there. And it's very frustrating to me knowing that I can get so enraged and not know it.
THERAPIST: Not knowing it while you're – not knowing the cause, the triggers, or not knowing when you are angry?
CLIENT: Well, I know when I'm enraged, but I don't remember it. And I don't know the triggers too which is another thing. I don't know if it's because I'm a very anxious person or what. You know, I've been anxious for a while. I don't know if I mentioned to you before that I did have a problem with substances.
THERAPIST: Yeah, no, you did.
CLIENT: You know, I was an abuser of cocaine, and, you know, that was my comfort back in the day where I'd just sit down, and I'd just snort cocaine and it was like, my friend. Didn't do nothing to you, didn't talk to me. You know, I felt that it, you know, it was my friend.
THERAPIST: It was a reliable relationship.
CLIENT: Yes. Even though I didn't realize what I was doing to myself or to the people around me. I was constantly in denial. And it was just – just really bothers me. You know, because when I did overdose and was lying in the hospital, you know, I don't think I've really recovered from it. You know, I saw the end for, you know, a couple of years and it helped. And then I thought when she moved on, I thought I could. And I tried my best and tried my best, and then it just – it got too much for me and then I started relying on marijuana again. And it was just – I was going back to old habits, to the comfort of what I knew when I was dealing with a lot of stress and anxiety.
THERAPIST: Well, you mentioned when you first came in, you mentioned that you were concerned about your marijuana use again.
CLIENT: Um-hum.
THERAPIST: Is that still concerning? Are you still using?
CLIENT: I'm using, but not as often. I have used in the past couple of weeks, but it's not an everyday thing anymore, which I'm good about. A lot of it is because I'm trying to cut back because I do have to start applying for jobs soon and, you know, I want no traces of anything in my system. I want to clean out, you know. I do think that a lot of my anxiety and stress is coming from the Intel test that I have to pass. Because I was just told that if I don't pass the test I don't get credit for my masters. And I have two shots. I have a test in two weeks and I haven't really prepared for it yet, but I'm going to start. And I guess it's just putting a lot of pressure on me. And, you know, I'm very anxious and trying to control myself and distract myself with other things. But then again, you know, in the back of my mind, I'm putting a lot of pressure on myself to pass this test. I want to pass it really bad. I'm very close to passing it; I just need to prepare.
And I think the preparation is the part that's overwhelming me. Because I'm putting so much pressure on myself to do well on this test that I'm not really focusing. Then I get frustrated, you know, and I do, like, the practice test and [inaudible ] I get really agitated.
THERAPIST: Is that typical for you to be anxious about tests?
CLIENT: [Laughter] most normal tests don't mean as much as this one does, which is tough. I mean, I wasn't a very good test taker to begin with. I don't do well with timed tests. I don't do well under pressure. I didn't score well on my SATs just because the timing and the pressure and all that stuff just – it bothers me. Because I do feel rushed. I feel like I can't fully grasp what's going on. I tend to rush myself and then when I look at the time and everything that's going on, really big, I [inaudible ]. And I just – I lose it. I just lose focus and I just start panicking. And then I'm just, like, whatever. So it is frustrating. Very frustrating knowing the fact that I can't, you know – and I'll do exercises, I'll do deep breaths, I'll do stuff, but I just – I can't calm myself down and it's frustrating.
THERAPIST: Do you have particular thoughts, or is it just kind of like your mind is blank and you're just anxious?
CLIENT: I get enraged. I get irritated to the fact where I know it, but if I didn't get it I get pissed off at myself for not knowing it when it's something so simple. That's what aggravates me a lot is that I don't know it. Well, I do know it, but I over thought it and didn't go with my gut. Like, I thought it right the first time and then I go back and switch it, and that's what irritates me. Because I'll go back and switch from the right answer to the wrong answer. And I'm, like, why the hell did I do that? I was, like, I had it right, why did I change? Again, I just get angrier and angrier at myself, you know, for doing that. And it's just – it's frustrating because, like again, I black out when I get enraged and I don't know what I'm thinking.
THERAPIST: So when you say "black out," do you – yeah, how do you mean "black out?"
CLIENT: Black out where I have no recollect – I mean, I know what I'm doing, but I have no recollection of what I'm thinking, why I was thinking it and what caused the rage. I just get enraged and it's pretty scary. Because I – and I don't know what it is. I don't know if there are triggers or what. I don't know if it's from the anxiety, whether it's just – everything just builds up, builds up and then it just explodes, and that's how I deal with it, and I let it all come out. And then it just fills back up again and then once it fills back up it explodes again. Do I know when it's going to explode? No. Can I say since I've been coming here for the last month or so, has it subsided a lot? Yes. I think maybe I've only exploded once, you know, whereas before, I was constantly on edge, constantly, you know, walking on thin ice as you say. You know, just very, you know, not emotionally stable, you can say that.
THERAPIST: So is the scariness that at the moment you just feel like you're not in control?
CLIENT: Um-hum. I mean, before, previously, I have just unleashed on my girlfriend and not remembered anything that I said or why it came about. And it was something stupid and I have no idea why. It was just, she asked me a question and I don't know what I was thinking. I was thinking something else and then she just pushed the button that sent everything over. I don't know why. I don't know how come. And the next thing you know I'm apologizing and she's really hurt. And I'm just, like, what the f - - what did I do? And it's frustrating because I don't – you know, and then I'm just like – and she's, like, "you really mean that," bla, bla, bla, like the stuff that I said to her. And I'm, like, I don't know what you're talking about. Like, I didn't say that, I was just, you know, you caught me at a bad time. And that's how it was for, you know, the previous six months – was that I was constantly just exploding on her. And I don't know why it was just her; maybe because she was around and she was difficult, you know. And I think maybe it is because, you know, she would come home and talk about work and then I would explode.
And again, I don't know what it is, but it's going back to her company. You know, when she talked about stuff that's when I just explode, and then just didn't want to hear it. Maybe that was my way of saying I don't give a shit. I couldn't care less about your company. If you really wanted to change it, leave, something like that.
THERAPIST: Well, when people turn, or groups turn their back on you that's really – that seems like a really big trigger.
CLIENT: Oh yeah, it's huge. Because I do – like we talked about, I do have loyalty issues. I am very loyal to people who are loyal to me. As soon as you break that loyalty and that trust for me, you're out. I have no sympathy, no heart for you as you'd say. And I guess that's where a lot of the rage comes in, it's just, I don't care. I want nothing to do with it. I hope that – you know, I wish every negative thing possible towards their company. I wish everything negative, you know, possible towards the people that hurt me. And I – you know, it's not the way to live, but I guess that's how it is. I guess in a way, that's the way I was brought up. Do I like it? No. But sometimes it's rare that I do. Because if I saw people that, you know, bump the trust that I had and I saw them on the street and they come and say hi to me, I'd walk by them [inaudible ]. You know, and they'd think, what an asshole. And I'm just, like, I don't care. To me you don't exist.
And I know my girlfriend tells me all the time that that's not the way to live. But I don't know any better. You know, I guess that's kind of how – I don't know, I guess that's how I was brought up. I [inaudible ].
THERAPIST: What is that like – is that – because you mention your mom can have a temper.
CLIENT: Oh, yeah. She gets enraged all the time. You know, we'll be sitting there talking having a discussion and you mention something, and the next thing you know, she's yelling and screaming. You know, and my mother, this happens constantly. Where it's, you know, she just – you say something and the next thing you know, it's full fledge screaming match. And I'm just, like, what the hell happened? It went from calm and cool to [snaps fingers] like that, and that's kind of how I feel. Is it's calm and cool and then all of a sudden [snaps fingers] bang, you know, she just freaks out, and just starts getting all worked up, and that's how I get. I know that's how my older brother gets a lot too. My sister and my younger brother not so much, they can control their tempers, you know, and I thought I could a little bit. But I do see that tendency in myself, my older brother and my mom, is that we all just snap.
And my mom's sisters are like that too, I'm not going to lie. She has four other sisters and two of them just – they have my mom's personality. The three of them are the same. You mention something and the next thing you know, they're all on your throat. And the worst is when the three of them are together. The three that have the hot heads, is when the three of them together is they just fuel the other one, and it's just – it's a disaster. It's a disaster and it's just one big, you know, argument.
THERAPIST: What do they get angry about?
CLIENT: My aunt, my mom's youngest sister, she just, you know, had a heart attack. She's very obese, diabetes, all that stuff, on disability, and my mom's other younger sister, the fourth or fifth is taking care of the youngest. Because when my grandmother died, she just, you know, asked that my aunt take care of her. And, you know, she said yeah. Well, my aunt is retired and she's spending a lot of money on my disabled aunt who's overweight. And, you know, she, you know, complains to my mom and to my other aunt about my aunt that's disabled. And they just finally are getting sick of it because my mom's got issues going on with her family. My other aunt's got issues going on with her family. And my aunt who's taking care of my disabled aunt is, you know, just looking for someone to talk to. And it's just like, the two of them, my mom and my other aunt just don't want to hear it. It's just like, well, she should do this. She should do that, bla, bla, bla, stop doing this, bla, bla, bla. But in a way, I'm like, you're right because my aunt who takes care of my disabled aunt is enabling my disabled aunt.
My disabled aunt doesn't really know her condition; how worse it is. She did have, you know, substantial heart attack. She is in her fifties and way overweight and, you know, my aunt is getting stressed out because she's retired and she's spending all her retirement money on my disabled aunt because of all the medical bills and stuff like that. And my disabled aunt is delusional in the fact that, she's like, "why aren't they taking me home? I don't want to be here anymore, you know, what this going on?" Constantly complaining and it's just – it's driving, you know, the stress of her and taking care of her is weighing on my other aunt who's looking to vent to someone. When she vents to my mother and my aunt they don't want to hear it. You know, I mean, my mother told me a couple of weeks ago, they went and my mother and my other aunt had a screaming match with my disabled aunt. You know, telling her that she was a piece of shit, bla, bla, bla, she needed to do stuff for herself, you know, to get better, and that she couldn't just sit there.
You know, and then it's just – you know, at Christmas time, you know, they were talking about her and I'm like, you two need to stop talking about it. The three of them get into it and, you know, they just keep saying that she would have been better off if she died. And I'm just, like, who says that? But that's kind of like how I feel in a way too. I'm just like, well, I see all this burden [inaudible ] maybe it would have been better off. You know, maybe it would have been a different outcome. I don't know. And I guess that's where I get it from was a lot of it. Because we were at a time I never really noticed it until, you know, recently. But I have been surrounded by a lot of negative stuff growing up. You know, it's just constantly people complaining about other people doing that. And I see myself doing it all the time. It's very frustrating.
THERAPIST: It sounds like it's rampant in your mother's family.
CLIENT: Oh yeah.
THERAPIST: It's almost like a way of being, or this or the primary way of relating to each other.
CLIENT: Well, I guess it is, but it's funny because my grandmother was the total opposite of her children. My grandmother was so loving, would always put herself after other people which is weird. You know, in a way, my aunts and my mom do that too. But it's just like, my grandmother I never saw get mad, only once, you know, but never, never, never did I see her get mad. You know, and then my dad's mother, I see her always mad. You know, so it's like total opposites. Like, I just don't – I don't know where I belong in the spectrum. I don't know whether I'm – I know I'm not more positive, I'm know I'm closer towards the negative end. But like I said before, the more I try to get more positive, I keep getting sucked back to the negative side, and it is frustrating. Like, I try to surround myself with, you know, different people, more positive people and I guess, I can't do it. Well, I mean, I shouldn't say I can't. I try to do it and I try, you know, to open up a lot more. And I have – I can say I've been better at it, but it's to the point where I'm just like, okay, you know, how much more can I open up?
You know, I already know, I associate with a lot of people. But then there's a lot of people where I just stay away, like, don't try to come into my life. So I don't know, I'm just pulled, I'm just pulled, like you said, that tug of war. Every time I try to go one way I get pulled back the other, and it's like a vicious cycle.
THERAPIST: I think of, like, "Star Wars," and being pulled "to the dark side."
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: You try to sort of do good and what's right, but then more of the dark side can be really, really strong.
CLIENT: Um-hum. Well, just because it's so comforting. And it's probably because of what I'm seeing a lot more, is I've seen a lot more negative than positive.
THERAPIST: That's interesting, what's comforting about it?
CLIENT: It's what I know. I've been doing it for a long time and not knowing that I've done it. But now looking back on it, I know. Just the fact, same thing going back with drugs, I know they're wrong. I know it's a negative influence. I know I shouldn't be doing it, but to me it's comforting. You know, I don't have to listen to the negative energy or any of that stuff from it. I just go about my business, do my thing and that's it. I think that's why I think the negativeness is comforting towards me, is because it's what I'm familiar with. It's the type of environment that I'm used to. And then I go to, like, a very positive family, like I'm going in February. I'm going down to Maryland to see my girlfriend's grandmother. She's turning ninety having a birthday party. Her aunt, her grandmother, her cousins are all very religious. Her uncle, they're all very religious. They're all very positive. So to me, going down there, it's very – it's awkward because I'll be there with my girlfriend, her brother, his wife who – his wife, her brother's wife and my girlfriend and her mother have a negative energy towards her. They don't like her.
And then my girlfriend and her brother have negative energy towards their mom. So it's kind of different. It's going to be interesting to see. When I go down to Maryland, there's three negatives, you know, everybody loves me which is – I don't know, they've only seen one side of me. They haven't seen my full side which is fine. I haven't had any time to, you know, be enraged or do anything just because I like being around her family. So it's going to be interesting because they're all very polite. They're all very religious. They're all very comforting. Like, very comforting to me. I see, you know, her side of the family and I like that. But then going down there, you know, when we get behind closed doors and all that, they talk about this one and then this one talks about that one. I'm like, it's just like, you know, my family. I'm just like – and I just want to surround myself with more of the positives like when we're in a big group with all positive people around. It's very comforting to me that side. And I don't know. I guess that's what worries me about growing up if I have a family is –
THERAPIST: That you'd pass this on?
CLIENT: Um-hum. But I want to, you know, have a family that's, you know, comforting, that's positive. I mean, everybody says you want to give your children a better life than what you had. Well, I've had a really good life with, you know, gifts and money and all that because my parents have always done that for me. But now that I really think about it, the thing that I want to give my kids more than, you know, I had, was a lot more love, a lot more attention. Like I was saying before, like my dad never missed a sporting event, but my dad was never there, you know, all the time to just come home and play with us. He was always working and staying at my grandmother's house late [inaudible ] coming home with us. I don't want to do that. I don't want to be that type of father. I think that's why I'm going into the field that I'm going in, is because I don't want to miss anything about my kids, especially when they're younger.
THERAPIST: Were you upset – you know, given how you feel about your grandmother, especially were you upset when he would spend a lot of time over there?
CLIENT: I did. Because my mother used to be the one – and I guess this is where the negative thing is because I used to be heavily involved in sports. Like, I used to be on all the travel teams and doing all that stuff. But I'd never get a ride from my parents to the games. Like, my mother drove me and then I'd have to get a ride from a friend. And I kind of felt like, that kid, whose parents don't really care. Like, my dad would come to the games, but he'd come like halfway through.
THERAPIST: And he couldn't drive you home?
CLIENT: No, he drove me home. They wouldn't always be there to pick me up, but my mother used to yell and scream all the time because she just hated taking me because – I don't know why.
THERAPIST: Just, she didn't want to?
CLIENT: I don't know. I don't know, maybe because she had three other little kids. I don't know. You know, I mean, when I was – from the time I was nine to sixteen, seventeen – I mean, well, nine to, like, sixteen when my parents had to drive me for all these things. It was kind of tough because that's when I first (inaudible) in the summer leagues and all that stuff. And I'll remember, like, my dad's was only there, like, you know, we'd go on vacation and I'd be on the travel summer team, and he'd drive me back for the games. I'd be like, but I don't want to come back (inaudible) vacation, you know. I wanted to just enjoy my vacation. No. That's when he wanted to be involved.
THERAPIST: You wanted to enjoy?
CLIENT: Vacation.
THERAPIST: But you want – so where did you want to stay?
CLIENT: Yeah, I wanted to stay where we were. Because (inaudible) we'd go to a ranch in New Hampshire and we'd just stay for a week. And it was our only vacation, we never went anywhere else, that was it. But, you know, I mean, I remember one year I had three games, my dad drove me back three times.
THERAPIST: From Rhode Island?
CLIENT: From Rhode Island.
THERAPIST: And because he wasn't in Rhode Island, he was here?
CLIENT: No, he was – we were all in there, my mom, my dad, my brothers, my sisters. We were all in it, that's our vacation spot. We've been going – it's like a farm. We've been going there for 27 years, 26 years. And we'd go with the same people every year, so it's kind of like our second family reunion. Well, we have friends from all over the country and this one week we're all together. So it's very comforting. You know, I mean, people have been going there since they were kids and they bring their kids up there. So it's like, we see everybody, see how everything's going. It's fantastic. And then, you know, I'd be, you know, involved in baseball and then I'd be getting taken back home and whatever.
THERAPIST: So, I'm sorry, I don't understand. They were up there and they took you back here?
CLIENT: Yes, we were on vacation.
THERAPIST: Right.
CLIENT: And my summer baseball team, which was a travel team. We used to have games during (inaudible). Instead of just skipping that week –
THERAPIST: Oh, I see. I see.
CLIENT: And going on vacation and not doing it.
THERAPIST: You would be playing the baseball games.
CLIENT: I would be driven back by my dad to play baseball. So we'd leave Rhode Island at, like, two o'clock. (inaudible) you know, I'd have a game at six, the game would go to eight and I'd drive back up to Rhode Island. What the hell, I just lost a day. You know, it was frustrating to me. It was really frustrating.
THERAPIST: Did you feel left out?
CLIENT: No. I mean, in a way, I wanted to do it because once I got home I didn't think about it. I was thinking about baseball and my teammates and hanging out with them. But before, I was just like, why can't I miss? Because all my friends would go on vacation and they wouldn't go to the games. They'd be gone. So, I mean, it's frustrating. But I also looked at it as a way that I was on the upper echelon of athletes, and I got picked for this team for a reason. And I felt like I kind of had a commitment towards them, so I did. So I went back and played. (inaudible) it was what it was. Like, I felt like I had an obligation to my team. But did I want to do it? No. But I did it. And I did it too because I know my dad wanted me to do it. Because I also wanted to go because that was the first time my dad would watch a whole game of mine, as opposed to, you know, coming later on, you know. So I guess that was part of the major reason why I did it too, was just to make him happy (inaudible) he liked doing it, you know. I don't know. I don't know, it's very frustrating.
I do kind of – I mean, I already mentioned that I do kind of feel left out a little bit. Because my little brother, my dad never missed anything, never. I mean, when I used to coach – I mean, I started coaching soccer at sixteen because I coached my little brother's team because their coach got kicked out and they needed a coach. So that weekend, I took the courses and got licensed in three days. And I'd say, no, I'm the head coach of a youth soccer team and I'm sixteen years old. And the kids under me are two years younger than me, a year younger than me and I'm their coach. [Laughter]
You know, but my dad used to love that, you know. (inaudible) there's my son coaching and my son's playing. Same thing when my little brother was in high school, just coaching him, you know, my dad loved that. And I remember, you know, when we were in the states before high school, you know, I was coach and my little brother was on there and I had a team. And we were just dominant. We beat everybody. My dad used to just love that. He used to be very proud. You know, he had two sons on the team, but one was the coach who was only a year and a half older than the kids that were playing, when the other one was playing. So it was tough because I kind of felt bad that, you know, because I was overweight I couldn't experience that, you know.
THERAPIST: How do you mean?
CLIENT: Well, when I was in high school I was like three hundred something pounds, and I played football, but I really wanted to play soccer, but I got cut from the soccer.
THERAPIST: And you felt it was because of your weight?
CLIENT: Um-hum. I know it was from my weight. But I also feel bad because I didn't get the opportunity to play JDs, which really irritated me. And then I stayed on and coached with the coach that cut me. And then even now, now that I coach Amherst (inaudible) coach is down, I still see the coach that cut me. And I have kind of a lot of negativity towards him. You know, like every time I play his team, I want to beat him into oblivion. Just knowing (inaudible) well, you know, you cut me as a player, you know. I'm going to prove you wrong and then I coach with him for six years, and he still doesn't, you know, take me seriously and listen to me. So when I left his staff and went somewhere else, I kind of felt that I had to prove to him, you know, this is, you know, what I am and this is what I could do, and you never just gave me a shot to do it. And I guess that's where I have a lot of negativity towards, you know, even my junior varsity kids, is because I have no heart for them because I was cut as a JD player. I never got to play JD, I was cut. And I knew I was better than the kids that played. But the only thing that separated me from those other kids was about 160 pounds, and that was frustrating.
THERAPIST: Why were you so overweight? Did you eat a lot? Did you have a slow metabolism?
CLIENT: Slow metabolism, drank a ton of soda, ate a lot of potato chips and stuff like that. My mom used to tell me I used to eat mayonnaise out of the jar. So I don't know if it was because I was depressed or what, is why I gained weight.
THERAPIST: Yeah, that's what I was thinking about, like (inaudible).
CLIENT: I think I definitely was. Because I mean, I was a little heavier, but I was very active. I didn't understand why I was gaining all the weight. Because I was active, but I was, you know, eating a lot. And my parents never restricted me on eating. So I guess, I don't know, my mother says that's what happened to her, was after she got married she was really depressed and just started eating. And I think she just started buying shit for us too and just kept feeding us. So I think my mother's depression kind of fed her, but it was also feeding us because it comforted her. Because the food comforted her, so she thought it would comfort us. I don't know. I don't know. I don't (inaudible). The only bad thing I recall being a kid was, you know, my grandmother just not being there. That was it. And (inaudible) the fact that I was overweight a lot too had, you know, a lot to do with it. But I guess I didn't understand it then.
THERAPIST: What about friends growing up, were you happy with sort of your friendship circle?
CLIENT: Yeah, I mean, I was always a popular kid. I was always the funny guy. You know, growing up in elementary school I always at the principal's office because –
THERAPIST: For what?
CLIENT: Being a wise guy. I mean, I was a – I'm not going to lie, I was a pain in the ass and I don't know why. I just thought it was the thing to do because – it's like my girlfriend says, I like attention. And I figured that was the way to get attention, was like (inaudible) there goes (inaudible) if he's going to the principal's office again. And like, that kid's freakin crazy. You know, I guess that kind of how I was. I don't know. I don't have an answer for it. I wish I did. But I did – you know, growing up, I did like making people laugh. I did like, you know, having a good group of friends and having, you know, being someone that everybody knew. I guess that's a better way to put it. Because even now my girlfriend goes – she goes, "whenever (inaudible) is there anybody you don't know?" And I'm like, it's very tough.
THERAPIST: Are your brothers and sister like that too?
CLIENT: They don't know as many people as I do. But I mean, we have a big family. My dad's family is gigantic, so I have a lot of cousins that I don't even know. But I'll walk down the street (inaudible). "I'm your dad's cousin's, you know, son." Okay. You know, but I also have a lot of friends from the soccer community. It's a tight community because I've done a lot. I've, you know, been associated with a lot of soccer and I do know a lot of people in it. And it does frustrate, you know, my girlfriend because she just wants a quiet night out, and everywhere I go I know people. You know, I guess, I don't know, I like that. I like people knowing who I am, you know, seeing my face and going, oh, hey, this (inaudible) saying good things about me. You know, stuff like that. Because I do want to help people out. You know, that is my ultimate goal is I want to help people out to the best of my ability. It is (inaudible). I don't know, there's some – again, there's some comfort knowing that a lot of people know me, and knowing that, you know, I am a popular guy in the community a little bit. Wherever I go people see me. They don't see me, they're asking about me, how I'm doing and stuff like that. And I just hear it from word of mouth. So I mean, in that sense, it is kind of comforting, you know. Do I like it? Yeah, I'm not going to lie, but there's other things that I like too. You know, I just like – I do like doing drugs. I do like doing all that stuff. That's comforting, you know, and I guess that's why in a way, I can't let it go because –
THERAPIST: Because you'd be letting go of the comfort?
CLIENT: Um-hum. Because then I'll be expanding, moving out – you know, I mean, there's a term, they say "comfort zone." I have a lot of them and I'm just scared to let one go and push myself. And that I want to be able to do that. Again, I don't know how because when I feel like I'm making steps, I feel like I'm being pulled back three steps. You know, I'll go two steps forward and four back. And it's like, I'm constantly in neutral. I can't go forward or I go backwards, that's it. It's tough.
THERAPIST: It sounds it.
CLIENT: It's tough (inaudible). And again, I do look for support. You know, I guess I'd say, I'm starting to lean more on my girlfriend for support because I know she understands a little bit. And now thinking back on, like, how I treated her, I know she was just doing for right. But again, it's like I said, she knows I'm in my comfort zone and I was pushing it. And now that I've opened it up and accepted it a little bit more, I understand it. Where now, I can't go for comfort from my parents or anything because it's different.
THERAPIST: Well, being with her I imagine represented a whole adult life and your future.
CLIENT: Yes.
THERAPIST: Which you're very scared of.
CLIENT: Yes.
THERAPIST: You're very, very scared about it, so, you know, I feel – I imagine that as unpleasant it sounds like it can be at home, with people being quite negative.
CLIENT: Oh yeah.
THERAPIST: That there's some comfort in sort of not having to be on your own in this very adult life with someone that you're going to marry.
CLIENT: Yes. No, I agree with that. I agree and I just – I don't know what it is. Because in a way, like, my mom and my dad do want to see me get married, they do want me to have kids. But in a way, I don't think they're doing it in the right way, where they're not letting me with the freedom. They are constantly bailing me out, and they're constantly saying, do you – you know, and they're putting the thought of doubt in my mind (inaudible) what I really want. In my heart I know it is, but up here, I'm all confused because I do get it from that side, this side, that side, this side, over there. And my head's just like, holy smoke, what do I do with all this information that I'm getting? And I don't know what to think. And I think that's why I'm very indecisive when it comes to making big decisions because in my family everybody's got an opinion. And even just in general, everybody's got an opinion, you know. But the opinions that I need to put first and take into account a lot more, I have trouble accepting.
THERAPIST: Like what?
CLIENT: Like from my girlfriend. When we have a major decision that's just her and I, I need four other opinions, and then the doubt goes into my head. When it's just her and I have the conversation, we made up our minds and the next thing you know, I tell somebody that this is what I'm planning on doing, and then the negative thoughts come in. Then the question of doubt comes in my head. Then that's when I start getting anxious (inaudible) you know, and can't make a decision and was frustrating. It's frustrating. And it's frustrating to my girlfriend because she goes, "we talked about this. You told me you were fine, just you and I. Then all of a sudden, you have a conversation and now you're on the other side of the fence." You know.
THERAPIST: Well, I guess maybe (inaudible) really need to stop.
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: I guess one thing that maybe you can think about, and we can think about together is what it would take for you to embrace a more adult life.
CLIENT: Like how?
THERAPIST: How to embrace it?
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: Well, I mean, that's the question.
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: Because right now, you're kind of living in limbo because, you know, it doesn't sound like you're okay with where you are living at home, and kind of not – and that kind of more a dependent existence, but the more independent adult existence is also really scary. So the question is like, what might you need or what do you – maybe even better, what are you looking for in order to be able to embrace that more adult life?
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: Maybe that's a way of phrasing it.
CLIENT: You know, that –
THERAPIST: I'm sorry, go ahead.
CLIENT: No, I know, that's – I guess that's what I'm looking for, is I'm just looking for support, but I'm not getting it.
THERAPIST: I see. Well, let's – I think maybe –
CLIENT: Okay (inaudible). No, I hear you.
THERAPIST: (inaudible) a good question, but we do need to stop.
CLIENT: That's fine.
THERAPIST: So I will see you next week. And again, (inaudible) just Martin Luther King Day, that day –
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: I'm not here.
CLIENT: Okay.
THERAPIST: But I can see you later in the week if that works for you.
CLIENT: Yeah, that's fine. And the 30th I'm out of town.
THERAPIST: Okay.
CLIENT: So if we can switch on something there, do some (inaudible).
THERAPIST: That one day?
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: Okay.
CLIENT: Yeah, that Monday –
THERAPIST: So yeah, so Martin Luther King Day, I'm just not here that day.
CLIENT: Okay.
THERAPIST: And this is a way's away, but I like to give people a heads up.
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: That February the 13th, that week I'm not here the whole week.
CLIENT: Okay, that's fine.
THERAPIST: I'll be away.
CLIENT: Yeah, we'll be in touch about all that stuff.
THERAPIST: Okay. So very nice to see you again.
CLIENT: Thank you. Yeah.
THERAPIST: And I'll see you next week.
CLIENT: All right, thank you very much.
THERAPIST: Next week's 2:40.
CLIENT: Two-forty, yes.
THERAPIST: Okay, you got it.
CLIENT: Thank you.
<b>END TRANSCRIPT</b>
