______________________________________________________________________________
PATIENT: (3 ½-minute silence) I think I'm feeling as if I'm trying to direct how  I'm thinking or that I'm trying to select what I'm going to think about because I was doing this right before I came in. And then while I've been here too I was thinking several things and not being sure exactly what it was I wanted to start with.and it's as if I'm trying to select so i'll, I won't think about certain things. And I feel if what I'm trying to make myself think about is how I felt yesterday again, because all last night it was on my mind. and I  was,well, I just continued to feel that there was something I didn't understand, even though I could see how I was trying to have complete control and how i'd also feel what I was trying to do I couldn't do and it would be so frustrating. But I was thinking about that in comparison to today when things seemed much clearer.
And then I began to think about my relationship with FYLR, my assistant, and how she's in some ways trying harder since I've had that talk with her, but in other ways showing just as evidently as ever that she doesn't like  things. And I still have this feeling that she disapproves. And I have, in the last few days, perhaps it's connected with parents' day more than with her attitude, but had a very strong feeling that I'm not directing her well and not handling that aspect of things very well. And I was thinking about that and of the fact that generally she just goes around looking unhappy or bored or disapproving. and FHYZ one day said to me, complete—i didn't say anything  about FYLR — but she just said, "it's too bad you can't have more fun up there, but it must be a drag having FYLR feel the way she does and expressing it the way she does." and I hadn't ever thought of it before, but since FHYZ said that, I keep thinking about that.
And then I'll suddenly switch and think about what happened just when I was coming here. Uhm mscz had called me at school to say he had to go to pnots and would be home late. and I think in a way I feel I wouldn't like it anyway, but the fact that tomorrow is parents' day I feel it's a double desertion almost. and it — I didn't react the way I might have several years ago, of how could he possibly leave me at this time? because in a way I knew I'll be perfectly alright with him gone. But when I was walking, I was thinking about the fact that I'll ha—, I'll be alone, and he might not even get back tonight because sometimes when he goes away he plans to and then doesn't. And the next thing I knew, I was imagining that he'd be killed in a plane crash and what would I do tomorrow. would I go and carry on or how would I feel? and just trying to imagine how i'd feel and,and it was well, I think it's something I do. a lot about people like my parents and mscz if he goes on a trip. And - 
ANALYST: It's no more than he deserves, huh?
PATIENT:  Well (chuckle) I guess maybe. 
ANALYST: What about this uh, you wondered if you would go to school and carry on if he were to die? 
PATIENT: Yeah, I was sort of imagining how i'd just — how would I feel and would I be able to or, would that stop me or just —? I don't know, it was, it was sort of a weird mixture of thinking well, if I went and then people knew, then i'd get the sympathy. but on the other hand I played with the thought of now I could just quit. or would I go and carry through on parents' day and then,and sort of put off thinking about it and be able to put off thinking about it until after parents' day and I don't know, it's just very strange. (Pause)
ANALYST: Well, how do you explain that? you know maybe it's worth thinking about. how come you would have that particular idea? 
PATIENT:  You mean about his having an accident and dying in it? 
ANALYST: And then your carrying on. 
PATIENT: Hmm. 
ANALYST: Or going through with whatever tomorrow really is for you. 
PATIENT:  I have the distinct feeling I don't want to think about it. (clears throat) and I don't quite know why i'd feel that way either. so, I mean it's one thing to do mscz in because I'm angry at him for deserting me but it's it's more than that. It's the way I use it and there's something about that that — and I don't know whether I started thinking that way because then it would — it was almost as if, how could they expect anything of me if I were suffering from having just lost my husband? so it would be my built-in excuse. (Silence)  
ANALYST: You said something was clearer today than last night, but you didn't say what.  
PATIENT:  Well, I think what I meant was,last night when I was thinking about having been rushed out of school because the men came to wa—, to wax the floors before I expected, uhm, that I had this feeling there were just a million things to do and I wasn't, I wasn't,didn't even know exactly what they were.and my thinking was,just feeling, I was feeling very confused when I thought about it and almost panicked. And that, that was along with this feeling of the fact that somehow my reaction to parents' day is worse this year than other years. although when I said it to mscz he just laughed at me and said, "oh, you can't remember other years then." But today, i, I don't know, I got through sooner  than I thought I would and I knew precisely what I wanted to get done. and I  suppose that's what seemed clearer to me.  
And I'm more, I'm a little more relaxed with them but again last night too, they put on — I don't know exactly how to express it, except they just make it very clear they value people with connections and possessions and family background and I don't know, all sorts of things. and on the one hand I'm not always, I don't make much of the fact that some of what they believe in I don't agree with and sometimes because of the way they ask questions, I find I'm playing their game, which annoys me. not as much as other people we've, that have been asked at the same time as we have have done. but in any case, last night they were doing this again. and i, I don—, when I think about it now, I can't even think of examples except I know it's true they're doing it. 
And mscz had a very good time with them last night. usually he's very aware of this and doesn't like it any more than I do, but last night he had a very good time and I don't know, I almost, I think I almost felt as if he had turned traitor to me or something, that he was falling in to playing the game with them. it's a certain kind of snobbery. I guess that's what it is.
And again I might have been just feeling, well I don't know if jealous is the word, but I know one thing did annoy me. and it might have more personal reasons for annoying me than I'm admitting to myself, because this couple has gotten to know recently the parents of one of the boys in my class. and they'd mentioned it before and I knew it, but I didn't, but I thought they'd known them for quite a while. I didn't realize that the acquaintance was fairly recent,and uhm, the girl,especially last night, she's, she's more inclined to do this because I think her husband has always been in a, what people call well-connected family in pkw and she's newer to it. but in any case, both of them and she especially, kept mentioning this couple and how they did this with them and how they did that. And they seemed to feel that really proved they'd made the grade, that they were doing so much with this couple now. because it was brought up at times when there was absolutely no need to bring it up and no reason for it except to let us know they were doing things with these people.and uhm, I'm not sure why exactly, but that did annoy me.
ANALYST: These people being the parents of the boy in your class? 
PATIENT:  Uhum. (Pause) I think at times it annoyed me because of uhm — I don't know anything about the family and its connections but I think the girl, when kept mentioning it,assumed I did, so i'd be impressed just from that point of view. but uhm and that annoyed me, as it always does with this particular couple when they do things like that. but then I think also the fact that I each the child of this, these parents, it was annoying me because somehow i, I took it that the implication was there that this girl, and maybe her husband too — he didn't mention them quite as much — were almost establishing, "we're friends of them but you in effect are in a role as a servant, you are a teacher of their child, you're not a friend of the parents." And perhaps that's one of the things that bothers me about parents' day too. that somehow I'm assuming all the parents are going to be having that as part of their attitude toward me.  
ANALYST: That you're their servant? 
PATIENT: In some ye—, way, yes. (2-minute silence) I was also, after thinking that — and I hadn't thought about this particular reaction to my feeling about the parents, though I think I've always had it and I used to be, I used to think about it more, that they looked down upon me to some extent. Uhm, I, I just  began thinking right after I said that about the parents feeling that way too, that I hope some of the children who are usually quite difficult to handle, will, or who misbehave in various different ways, would do so tomorrow. Because that — in a way I suppose I was thinking that would be revenge on the parents. although in the, in another way i'd hope they don't because it makes it harder for everybody concerned. 
ANALYST: You know, the, the, the idea that I get from the way you're talking about this, it's as though, practically, you're describing anticipating going into labor. You're talking about holding back, pushing back, keeping it all in, having control, waiting for the moment tomorrow when the show will occur. even your fantasy about mscz dying sounds that way. your idea that you would go on  and go through with it is almost like, well, something you really couldn't stop, like,you know, you're pregnant and you're going to give birth and if he dies you don't stop that. or if they'll feel sorry for you, almost as though you'll be a mourning widow with your family there. all these images seem to me, sound almost as though tomorrow is not parents' day but birth day. 
PATIENT: (Pause) I, I'm really thinking I don't know what to think. and i, the question I keep asking myself,which I think won't lead me anywhere because it hasn't other times, is what does it mean that there is this parallel? (pause)and the only thing I can get at since I think somehow I'm going to be proving myself tomorrow — it's like somehow I think I'll prove myself by having a  child. But however much I've talked about it, it still, I don't quite understand that.  
(Silence) And also the the part of, if I'm having this fantasy about MSCZ dying and me being alone and so forth, and then if that's tied in,as you did, with this whole feeling being one of going into labor, like one might be of going into labor,and then my being a widow with a family, i, I don't know. I guess I don't see where I'm serving myse—, think I'm serving myself by having that fantasy. (Silence)
I almost feel as if I'm doing now what I did yesterday too when I was so bothered by the fact that i, there was something I didn't understand or I wouldn't let myself understand or think about. but it's almost the frustration of not understanding because then I — again, a lack of understanding suggests a lack of control. I get so frustrated, I can't do anything. It's almost as if I stopped myself from the very thing I want because I'm feeling so frustrated.
And also, it sort of, well, I don't know, seems ironic to me I guess, that I'm  aware I used to spend so much time — well, I haven't even stopped now — of examining myself, my motives, what, what I've done, what I could have done and all sorts of things. and I always used to tell myself, well, it'll help me become better or be happier or handle things more easily and I'll have better control, I'll understand.
And really all I was doing, I think, is rationalizing. And that's somehow the feeling I get now too.if I keep thinking about it I won't really be thinking about it. I'll just somehow work out a system of thoughts that will satisfy me. and I don't know, it just reminds me of what I was doing last week or the week before and,and finally I said something about — I didn't think  what I was saying was really right.and you said that you,you had felt all week i'd been trying to sell you that idea. And, and somehow I have this feeling here now too, that maybe that's what I'm doing right this minute.
ANALYST: Well, literally what you're telling me again is that this, whatever it is that's going on, can't be hurried. it just has to follow its course and there's nothing you can do to speed it up, as though it has a kind of — whatever it is uh, it goes on, period. 
PATIENT:  I guess part of what's bothering me today is I can't accept that everything is in that framework, that that's the way I'm thinking, or everything can be tied up with being pregnant.  
(2 ½-minute silence) I was just thinking that well, then I start thinking about school again. but before then I was thinking that well, somehow trying to understand this connection between my feelings about being pregnant and what I've been saying I've been feeling today. and I don't know, it seems I prefer to look at it a little bit differently or at least differently than I think, than I assume you're looking at it, although you may be doing the same thing. because I began thinking about — if I've ever imagined having a child, very often, I mean if I imagine the actual time of birth, it has bothered me  very much because I've always felt I won't want to let the child come out and I'll be trying to hold it back. and it, so to my thinking toni—, today, it's that I've given to being pregnant and having birth, it's almost as if I've  taken that, I've, I don't know how to express it, put feelings that come from something else into that. the feelings that come from something else then end up making me feel i, I won't want to bear a child when I think about the actual moment of giving birth. and earlier, when you said what you did, I kept thinking, "well, do you mean that?" I don't know, somehow it seems to me it would be the opposite and again I don't know how to express it. 
ANALYST: Well, our time's up.
