TRANSCRIPT OF AUDIO FILE:
______________________________________________________________________________
BEGIN TRANSCRIPT:
THERAPIST: Hey. 
(inaudible) 
CLIENT: How's it going? 
THERAPIST: Good.
CLIENT: It's nice and cool in here. 
THERAPIST: (inaudible) 
CLIENT: You've got your fake fireplace going (chuckle) 
THERAPIST: Quick question for you about the scheduling for Monday's. Any chance that you could do 11:40 instead of 3:10? 
CLIENT: Yep. 
THERAPIST: (inaudible) I don't, I don't know for sure if I can do that, but that, it's a possible switch that I think might work. So I will check on that. 
CLIENT: Okay, awesome. Thank you. 
THERAPIST: (inaudible) sucks. 
CLIENT: Yeah, so today I feel kind of wacky. I get like this every so often and I don't know what this is. It's like half physical, half, more psychosomatic, or I don't know. I just feel kind of, I don't know what the technical word is, but I feel hyper, aware of like sensations of things, do you know what I mean? [00:01:27] Yeah. 
THERAPIST: A little, tell me more. 
CLIENT: Well like, I don't know, I just feel, it's kind of hard to explain. It's like I feel just extra aware of everything around me. Of every little thing, like colors and faces and people and, I almost feel outside of myself in a way. Cause it just, it makes me jittery and feel weird and kind of not centered. You know. Plus I feel tired, so I don't know. I just feel out of it. 
THERAPIST: I wonder if there's something specifically you're just aware of walking in here that you're aware of, 
CLIENT: No, it's been, it started, (pause) kind of like when I got to Starbuck's today. 
THERAPIST: And when, you started to notice what? What were you [00:02:25]
CLIENT: I don't know I was just having coffee and I just wasn't feeling myself or something. I don't know, I wasn't feeling good or something like that. And I was like, oh I should eat something. So I went and grabbed a bagel sandwich thing with a nice cup of soup something. I didn't know why I was, like, I ate, I was comfortable sitting there, but I was feeling wacky. I don't know, but I don't know if I'm just, I don't know if something in me maybe is reacting to what we're doing in here, and if that's making me focus on physical sensations or, if maybe some of the medications are making me more tired or feel a bit more. I don't know. But (pause) so yeah. I don't know. (pause) Is that a thing? 
THERAPIST: Well, there are certain ways that you can be affected. And you know start to feel a lot of different things. But I still don't know what wacky is. 
CLIENT: Yeah, I don't really know how to explain that. Like, like right now, I feel kind of a little bit jittery. (pause) And when I get this way, I almost feel like my breathing is labored, almost a little headachy or slightly nauseous or something. Yeah, I don't know. I just not that comfortable in my own skin, I just physically feel weird. You know. [00:04:04]
THERAPIST: It sounds like you are anxious. 
CLIENT: Yeah, maybe it's just some kind of, just, general anxiety attack. 
THERAPIST: It's not a panic attack. There's anxiety, jittery
CLIENT: Yeah I guess. Maybe that's what it is, it could be. (pause) Yeah. (sighs) Yeah, that could, like I say, it could be partly to a reaction to here. We are going tomorrow to play a show. We had a great practice last night. But I still feel like I have to muster, we can't find a freaking hotel, the storm, so there's a chance we got to just drive it back. We hated that last time, so, I don't know, maybe that's making me feel like, blah. Like I don't, Helen, that girl, you know, I don't know what it is. Maybe it's all of it, I guess. I don't know. (pause) [00:05:09]
THERAPIST: Maybe something specific is stirring here? Something you are reacting to, something is making you feel anxious? 
CLIENT: Yeah. I mean yeah I definitely feel more of a sense of, it's almost like claustrophobia a little bit. Like I do feel more of a sense of, wow, I'm really fucked and there's no way to be better next week, or even six months from now or whatever. That's, that's I guess must be doing something you know subconsciously. 
THERAPIST: There's so much you've said already. Just even realizing there's stuff there, that you see, that maybe you can't hide that I see, that is real. It's like for one being exposed, just the exposure of that, instead of hiding it from yourself, even. Is, I could imagine, anxiety provoking. Like wearing your heart more on your sleeve than defended inside. (pause) [00:06:32]
CLIENT: Yeah, I mean, yeah, that's the other thing too, is yeah, I'm probably just a, it's all a bundle of raw nerves and emotions so. 
THERAPIST: Which makes you anxious to have known? I guess is what I'm saying, to actually have that be here, to be part of this. Not be something you're hiding, you know with the conversation we were having yesterday. Just trying (inaudible) see more. 
CLIENT: I, I guess to what it is, is, I'm starting to worry, I need to definitely change, or alter my day to day habit, otherwise, cause really the way my job is, is so little or no stress, I could just spend all day surfing the Internet. I don't think that's good. You know what I mean. Yeah, I get, whatever, but, I'm just sitting there. First of all I don't think its good sitting online that long anyway. I think that can make you jittery too, just clicking, clicking from one, you know, like, and that's all I do. You know. So, I think I need to find, you know, between exercising or something I've got to find a way to find more of a—Because really when I'm on the Internet, and I think for logic, you're still, you're still in your own head. Thoughts are racing, you're clicking, you're, you're not really engaged. At least I'm not. You know, it's basically just like, I don't know. It's sensory overload, plus the overload that's already in your mind, you know, it's, maybe that's not good. [00:08:16] pause) 
THERAPIST: I was thinking now, as you were describing just feeling like you're, when you are aware, you were paying attention to all the stuff on the outside and not really grounded in yourself. It sounds overwhelming actually, like you are being bombarded. 
CLIENT: Yeah, yeah, that's how, today that's how I feel. I feel kind of
THERAPIST: Over stimulated. 
CLIENT: Yeah, yeah, something, I guess I feel 
THERAPIST: And alone. 
CLIENT: Yeah
THERAPIST: That's, it's you and your computer screen. 
CLIENT: Right, right. Yeah. (pause) Maybe that's why when I woke up; I didn't feel this way, because I had, because I had Cecelia. You know. I felt nice and comfortable and cozy and I'm fine. You know. Or way better you know. But the minute I leave the house, there's no, yeah, I'm just doing my own thing. I mean yeah I interact with people, but just a split second, nothing, you know, substantive. (pause) [00:09:17] (sighs) But you know, even that. I'm still not— for example, it could all be food related. Do you know what I mean? If you wake up, first thing I had was a cup of coffee. I ate at like one o clock. 
THERAPIST: Yes, terrible for you. 
CLIENT: yeah, so
THERAPIST: Right there. 
CLIENT: Exactly, that's what I do every day 
THERAPIST: You do? Every day? 
CLIENT: The most I do is in the morning if I have the coffee; I might have pumpkin bread at Starbuck's or something. That can't be good, that sugar, and coffee, so that's not really, there's no protein, so I don't know. I'm thinking of just getting a pot and boiling a shitload of eggs. And at least having one, like two hard boiled eggs in the morning, like that shit's really good for you, tasty, easy to eat, easy to make, cheap. Just have a Tupperware full of eggs ready to go. You know. Because that's got to have something to do with it too. Like I'm sure it's all of these things that we're talking about, but it can't help that my eating habits are completely wacked. You know. I try to make myself feel better, because I take lots of vitamins and supplements and this and that, but, that's okay, but, you know, that. 
THERAPIST: It's not nearly as good as eating well and getting your vitamins from the food itself. 
CLIENT: Yeah, yeah. Like sometimes I think that I'm eating too much, but really when I break it down I'm eating too little. You know, because I'm vain and always worried about whatever, but really like, what do I eat? I have a cup of coffee, maybe some pastry at Starbucks, and then I have dinner. 
THERAPIST: That's it? 
CLIENT: I mean I have dinner and like I'll snack. Like I'll have dinner and then sometime at night, I'll have like a sandwich or something. But when, then I'll feel bad because I'm eating at night, so it's good I'm not eating— But when you add all that up that's not, what is that? That's not, you know, I don't know. 
THERAPIST: It's not enough and it's really not good for your body. 
CLIENT: Yeah, yeah. 
THERAPIST: It's not as if all this other anxiety isn't there too, but this kind of thing makes it that much worse. 
CLIENT: Right, right. (pause) Yeah I think I just need to like strip it, make it really easy, on like, literally just microwave broccoli, literally just whatever (chuckle) to get some food. I'm just not, for myself I just don't really cook, you know. I don't really care that much, but. 
THERAPIST: I was wondering you don't, do you ever cook? 
CLIENT: I like eating, but cooking for myself is just like, I don't know. I did when I first moved up there, I was excited, you know. But, no. 
THERAPIST: So what do you have for dinner? 
CLIENT: I kind of like to mix them, like I'll go down to the Assyrian store and get some stuff, so it's not junk food, but, then I'll basically just olives, not like, I don't know. I'll make tuna fish. I like tuna fish with like mayo and sprouts, alfalfa sprouts. I'll just roll it up in pita bread and eat that. (chuckle) Banana, you know. So yeah. It's weird. [00:13:01]
THERAPIST: It, it sounds like being malnourished. 
CLIENT: It probably is. 
THERAPIST: It's so not a balanced diet. 
CLIENT: It probably is. No (inaudible) (pause) (Sighs) (pause) I noticed to, I've been picking at my cuticles again. I wasn't doing that in a long time. They're a little bit better now. But. I haven't done that in a long time, not like this, this is back to like 2004 levels or whatever. (pause)
THERAPIST: Maybe it's making you anxious that there's anxiety too. 
CLIENT: Yeah, the anxiety is making me, yeah, when I feel this way, it's hard to stop feeling this way because I feel this way, so it's like oh shit, I'm having anxiety. I'm having hypochondria, I can't listen to pb, ah, PBR, to NPR because if they say anything about health I'm going to start you know. (pause) [00:14:18] ends at 00:14:41]
THERAPIST: I wonder if it could make you anxious to know, you know it's like I walk up the chain of what it actually means when you say to know this isn't going away tomorrow to know even six months from now, a year from now, to kind of know you are in this for the long haul, like it could feel, like a momentary elation to get started. But then to sort of know, now, like now, just as you were describing your record now, it's like the work. And there's a lot of work in front of you, and you're not leaving in a week. Can be pretty anxiety provoking. 
CLIENT: Yeah I think there would be, might be a part of it too. Yeah. (pause) Yeah, I don't know. [00:15:33] (Sighs) (pause) [00:16:08] yeah, I don't know, I just feel over loaded or something. It's tiring. (pause) It's weird because it's not really a depression. Like claustrophobic or something. (pause) Actually, you know what I feel like, for the first time, it almost feels like I've been going crazy or something. Do you know what I mean? I haven't felt that since I used to get literal panic attacks. Where I felt like I can't control my mind and something's spinning out of control or something. It's weird. (pause) 
THERAPIST: It's a pretty scary feeling. (pause) [00:17:10] ends at 00:17:36] I wonder if something from yesterday made this feeling get stronger. Can you think of anything? 
CLIENT: I, I don't, as usual I've kind of blocked out what we talked about, but, (pause) Oh, it was about, right, I was saying I obsessed over the text messages and stuff like that, yeah. I mean, I mean I'm sure there's something to do with it, because again, there's just a lot of loneliness, you know. I just feel lonely and alone, and, I also feel scared, because right now, I'm getting almost too tired to even, make effort to make something work. I don't know, yeah, I just. (pause) 
THERAPIST: A lot of feeling. (pause) [00:18:47] ends at 00:19:03] One of the things I m might imagine that is happening, that is so good and important but I think can feel awful as its happening. Is for you to just remember yourself what we talked about yesterday means there's some memory being built of who you are, and like the steadiness of the things that come up inside you. Which is so different than being in the pit of despair one day and then the next day something pulls you out of it to elation. SO you get to forget about the despair. In that moment it feels so much better to be pulled to elation. And that, so that's not happening when you remember yesterday, today, that this text sequence happened, how you felt about it. All the feelings that get stirred, the awareness that wow, this is in me, what is this. That is steadily there, is good, I think. That's, it's a building of having a sense of yourself, all these different parts of yourself. But you can also feel that breaking down barriers in your mind that kind of protected one part from another. That can feel really anxiety provoking, for this side to get to know that side is there too. 
CLIENT: Right, that makes sense. 
THERAPIST: This side that is proud, with the side that feels really ashamed. To get like, they are both part of you. 
CLIENT: Wow that makes sense. (pause) (sighs) (Pause) Yeah I mean, that's, that's the thing again, and I guess that's what this feeling is, again, is another form or, it's catastrophizing, or, disconnecting from reality, like, I'm like oh, you know, this is going to go away, but what does that really mean? I mean people are in therapy for years and years and years, and they're married, they have kids, you know. One, it's neither here nor there, but what does that, really, you know what I mean? But my mind is going somewhere, I, again, I feel pathetic, I feel like, I don't know, I been doing what one of these older dudes who come in here three times a week. And I'm sitting in a Starbucks all day on my lap—like what am I doing? You know? But that, those thoughts, what does that mean? I have a job, I, like, it's so, I already feel better. It's still another form, it's just another manifestation of something telling me, oh you're just a loser or something, you know? 
THERAPIST: Right, right [00:22:03]
CLIENT: Fuck. (pause)(crying) And even like, I was even thinking that. All day I'm like, dude, what in this moment, what, there's nothing wrong? You know. It's a beautiful day, I have a job where, I'm sitting here, and I do whatever the fuck I want, I mean come on! You know. All the problems that people are facing, you know, and Jerry, you know, I texted with Jerry earlier, very nice. Like, what, there's nothing, everything's' fine you know? But, yeah, it's just, 
THERAPIST: What's wrong is old. 
CLIENT: Right. 
THERAPIST: It's not what's actually happening so much, but the old makes you feel like what's actually happening is evidence of something about yourself. Like rather than feeling, you're choosing to do this analysis. 
CLIENT: Right. 
THERAPIST: A lot of people would never do this because of how much hard work it is. That's why they're not in it. [00:23:12]
CLIENT: Right, right, yeah, it's true. Yeah that is weird; it's as if I'm making it sound like something's happening to me. Whereas, nothing, I mean, I've been pretty (chuckle) proactive on every front, so. Yeah. (pause) (sigh) (clears throat) 
THERAPIST: And to actually be pretty healthy and stable enough to, enter into something that is temporarily destabilizing, not the other way around. But it feels like, like if this falls into that groove, this and anything else you are describing. Of proof that there's something wrong with you. Really deep down, there's something wrong with you. (pause) [00:24:01] 
CLIENT: (sigh) (pause continuation from above, until [00:24:37] I wonder how much of this has to do with like sex. You know what I mean. Like when you're a kid and you're developing, because everything else is fucked up then this is probably fucked up too. I mean, if you're childhood has whatever issues mine have, then there's probably something screwy. You know. (pause) 
THERAPIST: Peoples sexual lives are a part of them, a sense of self. So I would expect it does get affected if your sense of self is affected. I wonder what you're thinking of when you say that. 
CLIENT: Well, now I mean, because now I'm just so focused on when I was a kid, you know now. So it was, I was thinking like, well, I remember when I was telling you like, my cousin would make out with me and stuff. Now I'm starting to get like paranoid, like did something happen to me or did, you know what I mean? Like, (pause) or not even did something happen to me, or even what I remember. Like maybe that was not great. It felt good at the time, I didn't have a problem with it, but maybe that was fucked up. You know, I don't know. I mean my initial memories, are pretty normal, like I found my dad's playboy, he has one playboy somewhere in a closet. That's all I remember, I don't know. 
THERAPIST: Do you remember how old you were? [00:26:14]
CLIENT: Yeah, between six and nine. 
THERAPIST: Do remember what that was like? 
CLIENT: I think it was pretty cool. I, I don't remember any like, sexual feelings per se. I knew something was, maybe, 
THERAPIST: Titillating. 
CLIENT: Yeah, something yeah, yeah, then I remember me and a bunch of kids found like an old porno or discarded porn bag, or something like that. I have a vague memory of that. But, like it was like in, out in the parking lot, or somewhere, outside, out around the building, I think. Unless one of the kids just had it. 
THERAPIST: This is you and some of the friends from the building?
CLIENT: But the reason I'm saying is, then later, when I was like 12, 13, 14, like I feel like it was kind of weird. Because I do remember then I was very like, sexual. Like, I, you know, like I, my mom, I think I remember, actually North Carolina, I was going to say here, but in North Carolina, it would be right before we moved. I do remember when we, you know like kid's masturbate or whatever, I think like, she had a cosmopolitan. I think back then, there were even some like topless pics in there. There was something very, very risqué, in the back then. So I remember that, and then here, I definitely remember when they would get like any magazines that had lingerie in them or any kind of whatever, that kind of thing. You know, like I would use those to masturbate, or whatever, I hate that word, sorry. [00:28:17]
THERAPIST: How come? 
CLIENT: But, something, it sounds so mechanical, so weird; it's like saying fellatio or something. I don't know. It's just strange. It's like vagina, you know, it just sounds fucking weird. But anyway, but I remember, and I remember it was kind of ritualized, like it was very often. 
THERAPIST: And ritualized, what do you mean? 
CLIENT: I mean I would do it very, very often. Like we would go to my grandparents building, like we would stay there sometimes, like when we were in kind of a fu-so one of my favorite things was to go to shower whatever, and you know. 
THERAPIST: (chuckle)
CLIENT: I'd sneak the magazine in there with me, and, that's probably all kind of normal. But I do remember it being, 
THERAPIST: a lot. 
CLIENT: A lot. Yeah. 
THERAPIST: That's some memories, what about it feels like it, felt like, 
CLIENT: I think it was, I guess I'm trying to say yeah, it was a lot, and also, it's a lot now. And, like I've very sexual and whatever. And part of that's fine, its great or whatever. But I just wonder if, you know. [00:29:30] (pause) 
THERAPIST: You're wondering if that became something you turn to for something beyond what it was, that did it become too much or a lot because it was serving some other complicated purpose. Beyond just getting to know your body or, normal rites of passage into adulthood. Do you remember then feeling worried about it? [00:30:06]
CLIENT: I think so, 
THERAPIST: I mean that's also a common thing
CLIENT: At my Grandmother's, at my Grandmother's definitely, because it's not a big apartment. So yeah, I definitely felt kind of ashamed, and weird. And whatever. You know. (pause for 18 seconds) I mean it's also the kind of thing where you know, nobody ever talked to me about sex, and I never learned anything about sex. (clears throat) And not in the catholic school of course, so. That probably also, it'd be different if one day you had a talk or something or whatever people do, I don't know. But I never had that, so it's like. 
THERAPIST: No birds and the bees
CLIENT: Hell no. 
THERAPIST: Even with your father? 
CLIENT: No. (pause) Yeah. 
THERAPIST: It was kind of a secret in every way. (pause) Were you're parents erotic with each other. 
CLIENT: I don't know. 
THERAPIST: I don't mean literally,
CLIENT: Oh, 
THERAPIST: would you observe them being, you know, hugging, kissing [00:31:41]
CLIENT: Well, I mean, they were old school. Yeah like you know on a road trip you know, they would sing together, that's pretty romantic you know. My dad liked to take my mom out, and he'd like to look kind of suave, and she would get kind of you know, Yeah you know, romantic. Especially for that old school thing, compared to his other friends, my dad was way ahead of the game. Like he was a natural, like really good husband, and a fun guy. Like he had a good, like I'd like to think I've taken after him and I like, really, he was like the fun kind of guy, but not an ass, like a responsible, good person you know. But yeah, he liked to take her out and things like that, so I'm assuming, you know. (pause) 
THERAPIST: It didn't feel a bit, it was sort of prohibited in the family, any expression. 
CLIENT: No, no, no, not anything like that. No, I mean my family is very touchy feely, you know, they're a typical kind of warm blooded. I kiss my uncle when I see him, my cousins; we're all very huggy, touchy. (pause)
THERAPIST: So I wonder what makes it feel too much then, the masturbating. [00:33:15]
CLIENT: No idea, maybe it isn't. I'm just bringing it up as a, I just figure that if everything else is kind of messed up, that maybe there's something that is messed up that I don't know, you know what I mean? (pause)Or not, I don't know, but. Since I've been going over stuff from back then, I just (pause) 
THERAPIST: You're cousin
CLIENT: Yeah, the cousin thing. I do, I do remember, you know when you are really little and you like bathe with a parent. I remember I didn't like that. I used to think that was weird. You know, but (laughter) I don't even know why, but, or not weird, I, I just remember, but maybe I did and maybe now I think it's weird, I don't know. But, cause I remember it, so maybe remembering it now makes me think wow, that's kind of wacky. But, you know like when I was like four. 
THERAPIST: So this is when you were how old, and when did it stop? 
CLIENT: I, actually just remember one time, once or twice, you know. 
THERAPIST: What do you remember about it? 
CLIENT: You know just a shower, you know, just a shower. 
THERAPIST: With? 
CLIENT: It was my dad, I think. Yeah. You know, soap, whatever. And I remember I think once or twice, because I remember then, like I remember them, you know, you got to go, you know, showing me and do it like this, 
THERAPIST: Trying to teach you 
CLIENT: Don't get it in your eyes, you know whatever. Maybe it's because I was already so shy, that there was something very uncomfortable, maybe you know. I don't know. (pause) I mean, I'm still kind of like that, my mom, my grandmother, like when they were in the hospital, you know, I kind of saw some things. (chuckle) And I got very like, just makes me feel real, I don't know just weird. You know. (pause) 
THERAPIST: Over stimulated maybe. 
CLIENT: What do you mean? 
THERAPIST: Just you named, when you came in today that you were over stimulated. 
CLIENT: Yeah, maybe it's just the idea that Wow, there they are, like very human, and parts and things you know. Maybe, yeah, maybe that's [00:35:53]
THERAPIST: We questioned whether there felt like there was something as a kid that felt, too much. 
CLIENT: I think, it could also be someone that is maybe; maybe I'm inflating sexuality with feeling smothered. Do you know what I mean? Cause they were, so it could be that. I was the first born, and one thing about my family, they all showed, I mean, I was clearly like the favorite, like, you know, I mean there was no question, it's not like I was relegated to the corner. I mean they just gave me tons
THERAPIST: Doted on you. 
CLIENT: Oh yeah, yeah. And still do, my grandmother, even in her fucking dementia, like when I'm around she'll like yell at my mom to like give me food, and it's (chuckles) just ridiculous, you know. So, I don't know if because I was shy, I didn't know what to do with all that. So maybe, and then between all that and not getting the kind of attention I wanted and nurturing. Maybe that's something. (pause) 
THERAPIST: It, it has this sense of stretching beyond what you are saying. But it somehow feels like, it's both being over stimulated, you know the doting, the smothering, the attending to parts of you that maybe didn't need that much attending to. And under stimulated. 
THERAPIST: It's over stimulated and under nurtured, or something you know. It's like yeah, I don't need my cheeks, I don't need to be hugged and squeezed and you know, knit me a scarf and whatever. That's love, you know, but maybe just, I don't know. (pause) And I'm still not kind of like that. Like I hug my friends, I'm touchy feely, but at the same time I'm not, I don't know how to explain it. It's with a grain, it's not with a grain of salt, that doesn't make sense either, but it's with a light hearted, it's light hearted. It's not like Abby you're going out, come on it's cold outside, you got to put something on. Or, like a kind of, you know what I mean. It's more like I'm just a huggy person, touchy, shake hands, pat on the back, whatever. It's playful, that's what it is. And it's a sign of, I'd rather talk less, and just show, you know what I mean. (chuckle) but for them, it's a lot of it, it's out of like, it's love, but it's a love of like, its paranoid, we've got to protect each other, the world is dangerous. 
THERAPIST: So it can be very intrusive. 
CLIENT: Yeah, exactly, exactly. My mom still does it. [00:38:53]
THERAPIST: Yeah. 
CLIENT: She'll be like "I think you came home very late last night, be careful out there". Even the tone, is literally, it's insane. Like they even take that tone on. I'm not exaggerating even. 
THERAPIST: (inaudible) 
CLIENT: oh yeah, it's something. 
THERAPIST: I was just thinking about just that tone, the way you just embodied her, and a child growing up with that tone, what get's inside that child? Worrying. 
CLIENT: Yeah, like a, like my mom's side, like everything is about worrying. There's never a moment that they're not worried. It's, amazing, it's really amazing. (pause) 
THERAPIST: You were over stimulated with worry. 
CLIENT: Yeah. 
THERAPIST: Like way, way, it's not caring worry, it's 
CLIENT: Yeah. 
THERAPIST: hyper attention, attention to some things that actually were destructive to you. 
CLIENT: Instead of just being. And I mean there was no just being. There was constant worry, constant. [00:40:02]
THERAPIST: Or here's a coat 
CLIENT: Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah. You know it would be like, you don't wear a, or like, for example, my mom, she'll be like, have an apple. Sorry mom I don't want an apple. Have an apple, you don't eat fruit, I don't see you eat, I had an orange earlier. I don't see you, I don't see you eating an orange, when'd you have an orange. There's this Assyrian expression, they'll say things like, Is it going to rip your stomach open to have an apple? 
THERAPIST: (chuckle) 
CLIENT: Like it's all very like, ar-ar-ar, you know, it's like (laughter) Dude, I don't want an apple. Take, make, be a letter. They'll be like, I don't know. Fine. I don't know, just who cares. You know. But they're not like that. I don't know. 
THERAPIST: That's such an interesting expression too. 
CLIENT: Is it going to rip your, I think it's pretty cool. 
THERAPIST: I mean there's so much more to that, than like feed yourself. It's like, take, you better take in this nourishment it's not going to kill you. And it's not actually sounding like it's for you. Is it going to rip your stomach open? [00:41:03]
CLIENT: Not only that but what's left of the deliciousness of it? You know. And, and my mom, and not just in our family, I mean I've heard other Assyrian's say these things too. There's this thing that, you don't like broccoli? You know what; sometimes you have to eat things you don't like. (laughter) Like well no, Abby can eat something else that gives her plenty of nutrition. And you eat the broccoli. What, you know what I mean? They don't have that, they're like, no, it's good to have a little bit of everything and, it's healthy but, it's just like Mother, fucking God, it's, you know. They do it to their brother, my uncle, the man's what? 55? They treat him like a little boy. It's incredible, have nuts, have walnuts, my grandmother, she's the one with dementia, well it's gotten worse now, but, well let's say there's pistachios, well she keeps forgetting, but in the past she would do it maybe once or twice, but now it's every second. She'll take them start peeling them and keep giving them to you. And you're like, nope, thanks grandma, I had some. Okay. Two minutes later, peel them, give them to you, or then tell my mom, give the boy pistachios. She needs to eat pistachios. It's like (laughter) What the fuck? And I even joke with my mom, like, you hate when your mom does that, so why do you do it? You know, and then, that's when I catch her like, she has enough, she's like, don't you know me, I'm a mom, I do stupid things (chuckle) I don't know. You know. She knows she has no defense, you know. She's like you're right, I hate when my mom does that. (pause) You know. But yeah, it's just this constant; my aunt does it with her daughter. My cousin, you know, the girl's cousin 30 years old. I can't leave the girl alone you know, until I find the right man to marry her. It's like what the fuck, where are we living? What are you talking about? It's sad. [00:43:10] 
THERAPIST: Maybe that's the reason you haven't been eating much all day. 
CLIENT: What do you mean? Oh, because, yeah, yeah. Yeah, there's kind of 
THERAPIST: It's shoved down your throat. 
CLIENT: Yeah I feel kind of like fuck it; I don't want to eat something right now. Yeah. (pause) [00:43:35](pause) It's amazing. (pause) Where as my dad's side, it couldn't be more opposite. Yeah. They're like, of course they want you to eat, but, if you don't want to eat, well (chuckle) well don't. There's no did you have an apple? Who the fuck cares, they're more like did you have coffee and a cigarette? Or like, (laughter) totally, totally different. (pause) 
THERAPIST: And in a way, what's missing is the middle of the road. Attention to your, to good basic self care. It's important to eat three meals a day. 
CLIENT: right, right, right. 
THERAPIST: snacks [inaudible]
CLIENT: There's no, there's no, there's no reason to over think it, I mean, it's just a basic thing you know what I mean? Well. Well again, it's just another way of the kid is not a separate person 
THERAPIST: Right. 
CLIENT: You know, somehow they have to be micromanaged and there many you's, many them's, or whatever the fuck, so. (pause) [00:45:07] 
THERAPIST: I was thinking about you and your dad in the shower, that I mean four is this age where it's a really grey area developmentally, where it can be kind of too old, to be like that. But for some kids it would maybe not a problem. But it doesn't sound like, what I'm imagining is there's not someone, you're father or mother saying, I wonder if this is okay for Brian, or is, is this going to be over stimulating for him. 
CLIENT: Cause for all I know, I wanted to go in there. Who know's, I was very tight with my dad. He's taking a shower, Hey, you know, whatever. Water, what the fuck did I know. Or maybe I was scared to be in the apartment alone while he was in the shower. You know, I was scared you know of every little thing. But you're right, yeah, there was, I don't think there was any sense of like, 
THERAPIST: And even, even when the bond, is like, you know, kids want to stay up past their bed time, that doesn't mean it's actually good for them, you know, so 
CLIENT: And the sleeping thing too, right. I mean at some point, someone should have been like, you know you're just going to, no, like we're going to cry yourself, or whatever; you're just going to fall asleep. You know. But that did not, I mean up until I was 11 or 12 they would keep, coming to sleep next to me. And that's not helpful, because then I would just feel embarrassed, and you know. 
THERAPIST: And it, it, it doesn't internalize how to do that for yourself, which is actually something you really needed inside you. Right. I don't even address just slamming the door and cry your heart out, but actually actively helping you when your 5. 
CLIENT: Right. 
THERAPIST: To, okay, this is something really important; I think you'll be really proud of yourself when you learn it. Here's what we're going to do to help you get there. 
CLIENT: Exactly, exactly. No, no, there was never anything. So, and that way, by the way, all that stuff was only to me. Because I was the first, I think that's what I'm trying to say, being the first, they thought they were giving me all this special attention and, whatever, but, turns out, they just fucked it all up, and they didn't know what the fuck they were doing. Because none of my other cousins had any of these issues. I'm sure they have other issue, but none of my sleeping issues or (pause) so (pause) 
THERAPIST: It's just, this Monday; I know I can do 11:40 as a regular thing, so I'll check on that. So do you want to just ad it in this Monday then? 
CLIENT: Yeah sure. Cool. 
THERAPIST: Alright. 
CLIENT: So Monday at 11:40 then. 
THERAPIST: Monday at 11:40. 
CLIENT: Awesome, thanks, have a good weekend. 
THERAPIST: You too. 
CLIENT: Thanks. 
(Door opens and closes)
END TRANSCRIPT
