*TEXT-PV010371  20 July 1970
______________________________________________________________________________
PATIENT:  (3-minute silence)  Just before I came in I started thinking about, uhm, money and, well mainly my money (sniff).  And the way I think about my money is, the money I've earned that is in the bank and that I draw upon without checking with anyone and—.  This had occurred to me earlier today, and I don't—, I don't know, it, it also occurred to me I was talking about money on Friday, but it didn't seem connected.  But I suppose part of it was that, uhm, I went to a, uhm, re_ renting agent and applied for apartment there, and this person was asking me how much we wanted to spend again.  And MSCZ had told me what he thought would be the wisest amount to go to, but he'd also said he felt we might have to go higher.  And this woman kept saying, "Well, could you go higher.  What would be the highest you could go to."  And I had the feeling I didn't have any idea how high, because all that money is MSCZ's money and it—, I don't know, I—, it's almost like I don't know even know what's there.
And I don't know, I think I—, well, I'd seen Dr BBB today and, uhm, he'd been in a terrific rush because there was an emergency that had just come.  So I didn't have a chance to ask him about his fee, which I'd forgotten to ask when I first went to him.  And then once I remembered it, I haven't had a chance.  And so that was on my mind, too, because it had been on my mind to ask him, if I could.  But, eh, so_ some other reason I was noticing that, uhm, I don't have that much left now in my checking account and I don't have any source of it coming in.  And it really disturbed me.  I was thinking, of, uhm, well, I have 1 more bill to pay that I haven't paid that's come in, and then I think 1 bill to come in that, that I know about, that I'm anticipating.
And then the other things I was thinking of were, uhm, picking up my watch, and we talked about my getting a new watch band.  And my inclination would be to get one that's attractive but not very expensive, and MSCZ keeps saying, "Well, get something that's really good."  And then I'll think, "Well, I couldn't afford it with what I have and I can't—."  I don't know, somehow I keep thinking of keep thinking of hi—, what he has as well, that everything's spend on our daily needs.  And then with my not having any income this year it—, I just can't I—, well, I keep getting, every time I think about it, or I go through periods where I get into a panic about it.  And so the first thought I had I guess when I noticed what was in my checking account was, "Well, I'll have to talk to MSCZ again about what kind of a watch band to get."  Because my feeling is I wouldn't go out and get an expensive one and (sniff).  And then I was just wondering how much more I can pay if it's other expenses I'm anticipating.  And I was—, it was still this morning when I was thinking about it—, was still kind of a, well just something that I have to bring up with MSCZ and discuss how we're going to work finances when I don't have any more money left.
But then just now before I came in, I was really feeling scared.  And—, more, well (hesitates), I don't know since we've been married, except for maybe a short time in the summer I've had money of—, that I've earned to cover expenses. And, and at first when we were married I wasn't earning enough so that I think MSCZ had to give me something.  I can't really remember now, but since I became a full teacher I've been earning enough to cover any bills that I incur or anything to do with the house and—.  I don't know, I just think somehow it will be different when he's putting money in the bank.  Some—, I don't—, it—. Or, or it means something about independence to me, and I'm afraid of not having my own money is going to change my attitude about things in a way that will be unpleasant to me, I don't—.
Or maybe, too, uh, of thinking again about last week not feeling responsibility at times.  It alm—, uh, it struck me just now, too, that it was something about if MSCZ's giving me the money, and what I'm occupying my time with is basically keeping house and taking care of the baby and, I don't know, anyway being home.  And I'm afraid I might just turn it around so now I'm working for him somehow and— (clears throat).  But in a bad way.  Before I would use the fact, well, I was spending my money to somehow, I don't know, not feel responsibility in the same way.  (pause)
Well, just anyway, I'm thinking again about Friday and talking about how I was feeling about last month's bill.  And stealing from you and then just the feeling I used to have about stealing, needing to and—.  How I've always either horded money or el—, and not spent a cent or else I'll spend it extravagantly and—.  It—, I don't know, it just—, it's clear money means something to me that is beyond, well, what money is.
ANALYST:  Well, I think you indicate that in another sort of way that your probably—, I don't know whether your aware of it or not.  What strikes me is you mention a lot of instances of specific things:  discussions about money or renting or buying a watch band or this and that and your own earnings, etc.  You don't mention a single amount.  That can't be accident.
PATIENT:  (pause) Mm.  It's funny, too, because when you say that I know when I was talking, for instance, when I was talking about how much is left in my checking account, I'm not sure if I could name it to the penny, but I have a visual image of what I saw last looking at my checking account.  In fact o_ on things, well like the watch band and—.
ANALYST:  You didn't say it.
PATIENT:  Yeah.  No, but I m_, I was just thinking on those things I do have a specific amount in mind, although I didn't say it.  I don't know why I didn't.
ANALYST:  But I mean just now you see—.
PATIENT:  Oh.
ANALYST:  You said you had a visual image but you didn't say it.  Why did you keep that back?
PATIENT:  (pause)  Well, I guess because I didn't want to tell you.  (pause)  And I don't know why, but for some reason it seems I just react that it's better if you don't know.  I do this with MSCZ, too.  If he says, "How much do you have," I don't like telling him exactly.  And the feeling I have with MSCZ, and I think it was something, I don't—, must—, I think it must have been going on here, too, of if I al—, I know I feel this way with MSCZ, that when he asks me, I'm afraid if I tell him how much, he'll take it from me.  Because generally when he's asking, he's asking because he's afraid he doesn't have enough for something and he might have to use some of mine.  And it's—, I have this attitude it's very much it's mine and—.  That's something I guess I'm finding very hard to give up having something like that that's mine.  And the other money is his.  And I don't know the im—, I mean I—, I know what he's earning now, but I couldn't tell you right now.  I do—, I d—.  It's, eh, I don't know, eh, I've been told so it's can't be that I don't know.  I don't remember.  I repress it.  (pause)
And it's funny, because thinking about I was thinking that, well in thinking about how much I had less, left in the checking account and then how far I can make it go, I was considering the watch that I have to get and then just household expenses for as long in the summer as I can make it go.  And then—, but I mean it's—, it's ridiculous.  It can't because then also I'll have your, well I've, I will ha—, I expect have your bill for July.  And then I've always, in the past, paid for boarding the cats when we go away, which we'll be doing again.  And I have just under $200.  I think it's a hundred and ninety-nine or something, but it can't go as far as all the things that I've just named, and yet I had this feeling if told you how much your bill would be all of it somehow.  Or that your only inclination would be to give me the outside possible figure of a bill, rather than the inside as you'd done last month.  But anyway essentially it's quite the same feeling as I get with MSCZ, that you'll take it from me and so it's better not to be specific.  (pause)
And that just makes me think of, I don't know, I don't even remember exactly what, but some—, something that came up here once about my father and his money and my feelings about it.  And all I can think of right now in connection with that is that I've always been very vague on my father and what he gets and how wealthy he is and I haven't wanted to think about his being that well off.  Except in terms of being able to get necessities always, and that he doesn't have to be pinching pennies or anything like that.  But beyond that I never wanted to think about it, and it just strikes me now, it might be because I'm afraid I'll want to take it from him if I know, and so it's better not to know.  And just like with MSCZ, too, it's better not to know.  (3-minute silence)
I was kind of thinking of 2 contradictory things.  One was what was a feeling of, I don't know exactly how to explain it except, well, being afraid somehow, or insecure, because feeling that money was the answer to something that would make me feel safer, but yet it's impossible to get enough of it.  And I think even if I had a lot, I'd be afraid of spending it.  Except in occasions where I'd sort of—.  You know it's like taking medicine.  Do it all at once, or something and—.  (pause)
Or I don't know, just, eh, thinking about alternating between things that I've done of feeling I couldn't spend anything to going out—, clothes is mainly where this comes out, although I'm sure it would be true in many cases, to buying more than I need.  I mean not being extravagant in terms of the way some women are, but still buying more than I need if I'm being careful, and sensible, which is extravagant for me after having this attitude that I couldn't but anything.  And it, I don't know, it would be—, again I'd be closing my eyes to something to do that, and it would make me feel better for a while to do it but—, although then I'd have this depleted supply of money that would make me feel all over again, this is terrible, I can't spend anything, and—.
And while I'm thinking of this and wondering about next year, then I just think of the fact, the contradictory thought of—.  I don't know, I was just sort of imagining that without trying terribly hard—, it would mean cutting out things that we enjoy, but I should think MSCZ and I could save easily $100 a month of what we're spending now, cut back that much.  (pause)
And then, I don't know it's—, once in a while I'll get really worried about it and then other times I'll think, "Well, it's MSCZ's money.  I don't know what's there.  It's his problem to work it out, and I'm just not going to worry about it."  And that kind of, I mean just not seeing anything is sort of the way I approach it I guess, and then somehow things will work out.  I don't want to know about it.
ANALYST:  You said money must mean something more than just money.  What do you think of?
PATIENT:  (pause)  I think security.  I don—, I mean other things came to mind, too, like even the thought of a home came to my mind.  I don't know exactly how, but it did.  And feeling safe, feeling surrounded by something that makes me feel good, that makes me feel safe, that makes me feel like I can exist.  Without a fight.  (silence)
I was just thinking it was funny, because I don't think—, I mean sometimes I'll think of it in terms of I_, anticipating next year, problems on buying food and maybe having to cut down there and that type of thing.  But I don't think when you asked that it—, that the food came to my mind at all.  And in thinking about feeling I that I could exist, it had nothing to do with eating, having something to eat and therefore not starving or not going hungry.  (pause)
I mean it's, it's the thought of not having it, of being completely alone, isolated and defenseless somehow or—, and dependent as a result but—.  (silence)
I get a little confused about this, but—, because I was thinking that I do think of being dependent.  I mean I feel in imagining not having any money, being dependent, but at first I was thinking but on nothing. I mean It's as if, I'm in a big empty space and there's nobody around me to be dependent on.  But then my next thought was, but that's part of what bothers me about next year, that I'm going to be dependent on MSCZ for money or I thought back to before I was married, or before I was earning anything and the feeling I didn't like being dependent on my parents.  I didn't mind finding out little ways I could get more money out of them, but I think once they gave me an allowance—.  They started pretty early giving us an allowance that covered our clothes so that we got a certain amount each month and then we bought our own clothes, and we took care of all our expenses.  I think we took care, eh, any minor trips and things like that, too, with it and—.  Sometimes we might have to go and say we needed a little more or there'd be some discussion about it, but there wasn't that much going to my parents for money.  It was just a very automatic thing, and it was as if I think I stopped thinking of it as getting it from them to my salary somehow.  (pause)
ANALYST:  But you feel that if you tell me any details, I'll take advantage of you and somehow try to get it from you, right?  Get your money.
PATIENT:  Mm.  I mean it even makes me remember, beyond MSCZ to, uhm, times when I'd get panicked about the amount of allowance I had left, and there was something coming up or m_, something my parents thought I should do or I knew the approved.  And I was supposed to be paying for it.  And, I don't know, I can't remember specific amounts now in this case, but it seems to me that the amount there would seem very small to me and inadequate, but that I could have made certain economies so it wouldn't have been.  Or it certainly wasn't as inadequate as I would make it sound like to my parents, but I don't think I ever was specific with my parents either then.  (pause)
ANALYST:  While you were recalling your allowance, did you think at any point how much it was at any time?
PATIENT:  All I could remember is that at some point they made it $60.
ANALYST:  But you didn't say that, again.  Again, you're secretive with me about it.
PATIENT:  (pause) Uh, first I was thinking that, well, it's almost a habit that money—, and this is I think partly the way my parents are, too, is, uhm, the attitude is you don't talk about specific amounts.  But then I was thinking beyond that my thinking is, if I'm ever talking about it with anyone, including you here, what I have to say about it is important, not how much there is, which is sort of like the rationale I always convinced myself was true when I was pleading for more money from my parents without being specific in how much I had.  (pause)
ANALYST:  But you see that that's a rationalization.
PATIENT:  Mm.
ANALYST:  Because you yourself think the amounts are very important.  That's what you began to talk about—.
PATIENT:  (said simultaneously)  Yeah, also I was just—, I was just thinking that with the allowance, the feeling—, what I thought was important, what I was telling myself was important was a feeling I had that it wasn't enough.  And I think I knew if told them how much I had, they might take a different view of how much was enough or something and—.  So what I had to get across was this feeling I didn't have enough.  (pause)
Or another thing that thinks coming to my mind in terms of not wanting to talk about amounts is, uhm, not wanting to let anyone know how much I make, made at school, which I don't know, I think to a certain extent is wise not to be talking about it a lot, but—.  At LKC, It was a situation where nobody knew.  There was no salary scale, and so you were at the mercy of, uhm, the headmaster and what he wanted to pay you, unless you were extremely aggressive about it or lucky or I don't know.  But I mean nobody had any idea how they stood in terms of other people and—.  And length of service and all that.  And so some of the younger teachers began to compare notes on how much they were making, and I found it very hard to do that, even when I knew I was leaving.  I mean this was really just happening last year, it—, you know, my last year there and—.  Even then, I don't know, somehow it was like telling something so personal that it was none of their business or something (clears throat).  And, I don't know, I'm confused about that because in a way it is.  It's an awkward situation, but it wasn't awkward for me in the sense that I'd, I was the one who'd been there longest so I should be getting more.  Maybe I was afraid I'd find out somebody else was getting more than me, and they'd know if they knew mine or—.  If they knew mine, then they'd try to get more than they were which would—, well I wasn't coming back so I don't know why it would bother me, but it did still.
ANALYST:  Why does it bother you to tell me?
PATIENT:  You mean amounts, or that particular instant?  Or my salary?  I hadn't even—.  (pause)  Well, I'm still telling myself the amounts aren't important.  It's my feeling about them.  (pause) And then again the next thought occurs to me what did in terms of saying more to my parents, and that is, uhm, I can see how you couldn't maybe judge my feelings if you didn't know the amounts.  But, I don't know, I can easily rationalize myself out of that, too. (pause)
And then I find myself, the next thing I find myself doing—.  Before when I was talking about my salary, without mentioning the amount, I had a—, again I think I was thinking 6800, which is what I was getting last and—.  Yet then when you said, "Why does it bother you to tell me now?" I started getting this vague thing, well I wa—, well I can't remember what I was getting exactly.  And this is what I used to do when people would try to corner me in telling them how much I was making.  And I'd give sort of a vague answer.  I might indicate it was over 6000, but I wouldn't be more specific.  And I—, it would be I would find it rather hard to remember, right at that moment.  (pause)
Well, thinking back to what money means to me, and thinking it means security, it must mean, too, that it's a defense.  That if I build up enough money around me, I'm defending myself against some threat that if don't have it I'm threatened by.  And if I tell how much I have, it—, it's like, I don't know, it's not a secret to me, and therefore it's not as—, going to be as strong a weapon somehow in, in defending myself.  (pause)
And then I think, "Well, that's ridiculous, because the buying power of money is still the same," but then I think of how I spend money when I'm in these states of not being able to spend it and being really a miser about 2 cents or something.  Or else being extremely careless with it, in terms of economy.  And somehow I guess the buying power of money is not really what concerns me.  It is in a way, but in another way it isn't.  (pause)
At least in the sense that—, well, I was thinking about th—, buying pleasures in the sense of trips or that kind of thing.  And I used to feel if we went anywhere, like a movie or a play or out to dinner, if I wasn't absolutely delighted with it, that it was a waste of money and I was very anxious about it and upset that it hadn't been absolutely delightful and justified, justifying the amount spent.  And I'm not so much that way now, probably because MSCZ spends his money on that kind of thing.  I don't, except when he doesn't have very much or something happens and he didn't cash a check.  So maybe that's why I'm better about it.  I don't know, but I think maybe I could, if I didn't have the money I could do without a lot of those things.  And it's not wanting the buying power of money so I can buy those things in itself.  (2-minute silence)
And I was just thinking, just back on my attitude toward vacation this year that the way I—, I think still feel this way only not as strongly as the day I was mentioning it before to you, that I'd rather spend—, even with some unpleasant situations that will develop in PTN, our vacation up there where it will cost us the minimum amount of money.  And I was just thinking we were planning to go to PWP for 5 days with some friends and then MSCZ thought he could—.  Well, he has 3 weeks I think it is, and so he thought maybe he'd, we'd s_ take another week and either go to PNQ or do something that we just felt—, maybe stay on in PWP.  And my feeling is sort of well, let's just rush to PTN after that.  Let's cut the spending just to those 5 days in PWP.  And it's not that then that money would—, that we might have spend would be put aside for anything specific, that I have any feeling about well, we need this or that or anything like that.  It's—, I'm very impractical about it.  It's just sort of we haven't spent it, so we have it.  (pause)
And the only, in fact the only way I like to be specific, and I don't know if like is quite the word, but I can be very specific on seeing how much I have and thinking I can't spend any more because I'll be losing what I have.  (pause)
Because I don't know, I was just thinking of both, uhm, the times when I have needed money and MSCZ's said, "Well, how much do you need?"  I hadn't worked it out at all, and it really—.  I don't even know if it matters to me except this feeling of needing something—, I mean sometimes it's been specific like times when at the end of the summer when I haven't money for food and so he has to give me money for food.  But even then I won't be that spe—, I won't have worked it out that carefully and—.  I think when I used to do this with my parents, it—, I'd sort of leave up to them how much they thought they should give me over what I alr—, what they had already given me for allowance.  And I didn't want to, somehow I didn't want to think in specific terms of what I needed.  I just wanted to be aware of what I had and what I was fe—. I don't know.
ANALYST:  Well, our time's up.
