Transcript of Audio File:
______________________________________________________________________________
BEGIN TRANSCRIPT:
THERAPIST: 2-21-12 is the date.
CLIENT: So I don't have much sleep right now.
THERAPIST: My psychic powers tell me you're studying for a test.
CLIENT: Kind of.
THERAPIST: So flash cards.
CLIENT: No, I just use those with the books that I don't buy that I check out at the library I make chapter notes on those so I don't scribble on books.
THERAPIST: Now you know I'm not really psychic because I blew my cover.
CLIENT: But in a way it's a preparation for a paper. I got back last night from Portland so I was kind of tweaking and I was playing music for my brothers and it was fun as expected. I actually had lunch yesterday with the host of the tv program I used to work on. I was nervous about that just because I haven't seen her in over two years. That was kind of strange. So we're on good terms again. [00:01:38]
THERAPIST: (inaudible at 00:01:40).
CLIENT: I guess I did. I told her I was going to be in town. So that was fine. I was nervous about it but it was fine. It was just like nothing had ever happened. And I just couldn't get to sleep last night and had to get up early. Part of the stress of knowing I have to get up early. So this day is just one of those days where I've got so much to do. But anyway I'm now on 100 milligrams of Wellbutrin a day in addition to the Sertraline I'm taking. I haven't noticed anything yet, but I've been really busy, so I think it's hard for me to take stock of how my mood is I guess. [00:03:00]
THERAPIST: Do you notice a difference in your anxiety?
CLIENT: Not yet. I mean it's not been a week yet. Frankly I think the amount of stuff I've got going on right now might overload the anxiety anyway so it might be a lot worse if I hadn't.
THERAPIST: That's always hard to tell.
CLIENT: Yeah. But yeah just...
THERAPIST: I know you said you had trouble getting to sleep last night. Is that an anomaly or have you been having trouble....
CLIENT: No I don't think it's a meds. I think it is and it isn't. The past few weeks I've been able to get to sleep pretty quickly. But I didn't have all my medication with me so I took the medication last night when I got home and it was for Monday but I usually take it in the morning as recommended. She said that the Wellbutrin would actually keep my... Take me in the morning because it would keep you (inaudible at 00:04:21) but I didn't want to not take it. I thought it might help me actually get some more homework done last night. [00:04:33]
THERAPIST: Like any change in your meds, flying, I think it messes up your schedule. (inaudible at 00:04:48) early today and I wondered if you get anxious before sessions?
CLIENT: No I don't. I think I only get anxious about them if it's like a packed day and just a matter of can I bring myself to be present and those kind of things. Frankly, I think if I had... I don't know what your cancellation policy is, but I probably would've cancelled Friday had I known how bad today was going to be. So yeah...
THERAPIST: For future reference its 24 hours. [00:05:34]
CLIENT: Great. Well I was thinking about it. I thought well it's a holiday. I probably can't get a hold of her.
THERAPIST: I'm a must. You can just leave me a message. Sometimes I'm here anyway.
CLIENT: Really?
THERAPIST: Yeah.
CLIENT: Well thanks.
THERAPIST: I do value the work.
CLIENT: Sure. No I understand. I think since the last time I saw you I think some of the things you'd said about the benefits of the recording I thought about those and some of the things you mentioned such as having other people who are concerned about the patients being attracted to them. I also wondered if the recording was a recommendation by a colleague that said well you know one way to temper this is to record them because he knows that a recording will actually be evidence of that expression. I'm not sure I completely agree with that with what happened but I can see the rationale of it. [00:07:26]
THERAPIST: Thinking that it would impact your feelings or that it would impact my response after what (inaudible at 00:07:35)?
CLIENT: That it would hinder my doing that, my expressing that, my considering that. But I think it's also partly a reaction to just my shame in it happening and being a burden or making you uncomfortable or whatever. [00:08:23]
THERAPIST: Do you want me to answer?
CLIENT: Sure.
THERAPIST: Sometimes I don't give you an answer to some of those types of questions but I'm going to answer honestly for this one not that I ever answer dishonestly but it just means I don't answer. The recording has absolutely nothing to do with you in particular or what you're talking about in treatment. I was approached by the company to completely coincidentally to anything going on in any of my caseload. And they had no idea who I was seeing or what my caseload was like before they contacted me. They're reaching out to lots of area therapists. So that's a complete coincidence. [00:09:16]
I approached you in addition to a couple of other clients who I thought might be interested in doing it and be comfortable enough doing it, and also who I thought wouldn't feel compelled to do it just because I asked. Because I absolutely don't want people to feel like they're being coerced in any way that they have to do it because (inaudible at 00:09:40).
CLIENT: Sure.
THERAPIST: So I mean in actuality if the recording impacts the course of your work I'd rather stop it because the most important thing to me is that you do the work that you need to do and that your feelings not be impacted by something external to your process.
CLIENT: Sure.
THERAPIST: And to your benefit that training therapists get from listening to it is secondary. [00:10:07]
CLIENT: Sure. No I can take that. So I don't know where to begin. I don't know what to say and it's not because of the recording. I think it's just I'm kind of out of sorts I guess.
THERAPIST: Well I know you said you wondered if you would be able to be present because you did just get back, and you're sleep deprived, and you had a busy day. So let's see if we can let you take a moment to be present with yourself, figure out what feels most important. What are you thinking? What are you feeling? Be in the moment.
CLIENT: Well I'm not sure. In my head since last time I think, maybe before that, I think I've in some ways abandoned the idea of any kind of fantasy with you. But I don't think it was a conscious decision. Maybe it was fed by my thoughts that well this recording thing is going to be in the way to make sure I behave or whatever but I don't know. In any event I'm not sure what's going on with that. [00:12:49]
THERAPIST: How do you feel about that?
CLIENT: I'm just confused really because I'm not sure if it's a change in me, a change in medication. Is it that we've talked about it enough that I've worked through it? I don't think so. Well perhaps it is.
THERAPIST: Why do you say you don't think so?
CLIENT: Because I do it outside and I don't think I do it to the same degree...
THERAPIST: Have fantasies about other people or fantasies about me?
CLIENT: Well other people outside. And so I don't know if I mean it, identifying it in here, and admitting to it and all that has rationalized it to a point for me to allow me to say okay that is what it is. I don't need to... It's like I don't need to fear it anymore, feel bad about it anymore, and so therefore simultaneously then it's no longer something I want to do. I don't know if that makes sense. To me it doesn't make sense but it's almost like well I ask the question is the shame taken away then does it make it less of a draw? Do I want to feel shame or like I'm acting unfaithfully or something like that. I don't know if that makes sense. It's confusing to me. Maybe it has nothing to do with it. [00:15:17]
THERAPIST: Sounds like a semi-reasonable hypothesis. We might not ever understand exactly what fuels the fantasy and then what makes it no longer valuable or no longer intriguing to you.
CLIENT: Or even useful. And if the plan is to escape are the circumstances from which I'm trying to escape different so that I don't feel like I need to do that? I don't think so. I mean it's like I'm still attracted to you, but it's not the same strength and momentum. But I think the thing that has entered my head more recently and more prominently is when those thoughts are happening, or I think certain things like maybe if I do this I'll run into that person so I should go to that section, and that is now followed up by to what end. What are you really going to do? Is it worth it to waste so much energy, and time, and focus on something that I have very little investment in and no real expectation that anything will happen as a result of that? [00:17:37]
THERAPIST: Has asking that question changed your behavior or your thoughts?
CLIENT: Yeah. In some ways it's grounded me more and allowed me to focus on some things whatever I'm doing at hand.
THERAPIST: So then the fantasy's getting in your way less?
CLIENT: Yeah. And I think it's also an acknowledgement that I can find somebody beautiful or attractive and not question that, or judge it and leave it at that. [00:18:41]
THERAPIST: Yeah. Separate a difference between being attracted to somebody and wanting to engage in a relationship or some sort of escapade with that person. I know we had talked a little bit about an idea with different kinds of intimacy and different types of relationships and I wonder if that sort folds into that effect because it seems like you're not seeking out as much intimacy with the person to whom you're attracted whether he's someone in class or a random person you see in the bookstore. [00:19:26]
CLIENT: I'm sorry can you repeat the question as far as intimacy? I get those examples but I can't remember what your question was.
THERAPIST: It wasn't really a question; just noting the difference between... I wonder if the idea of wanting intimacy with somebody how it related to this separation between noticing people to whom you're attracted but cutting it off at that. I mean noticing that but then not necessarily pursuing the fantasy or some sort of chance encounter with them. [00:20:10]
CLIENT: Oh I see. Yeah I guess I wonder if... I mean I'm just kind of reflecting on those instances recently when I didn't cross over into fantasy if I was able to be more in tune with myself because it seems like I'm always happy for a distraction and find that constant interruption of whatever I'm doing, whatever task at hand, to be able to question to those motives and then say to what end and then I can stay within what I'm doing, be more present to what I'm doing and not seek out those distractions. Yeah I just think it's been a real waste of my time, and energy, and focus, and self awareness. I'm not sure if that's... [00:22:01]
THERAPIST: How does that impact your relationship with your wife?
CLIENT: Well invariably when I think about to what end, when I ask that question, I imagine her. I imagine what that would do to her if I thought about that in the beginning some sort of actual physical betrayal. And it allows me to realize or just remember that it would crush her and I just imagine her in that pain that I have witnessed and never want to see that again. And I also know and remember the pain that I was in, and the shame, and the guilt, and knowing that I cannot live with that kind of secret or that kind of double life. So knowing that those two things come up and I think again to what end. I am not going to put myself through that. I'm not going to put her through that. But I think the impulse or the reflex to... I just lost my train of thought. The impulse the reflex to enter into those fantasies to me seems like, again, wondering if I can trust myself. [00:24:16]
THERAPIST: Trust in yourself.
CLIENT: Yeah. I mean part of that to what end question is how far would I go? You know how far would I get if this other person was whatever.
THERAPIST: If given the opportunity.
CLIENT: Yeah. How much could I ignore those images in my head of my pain and my wife's pain? And I tend to think that I couldn't get very far at all.
THERAPIST: Were you testing yourself in this way before the incident in Canada? I can't remember where you were. I have no idea.
CLIENT: That's okay, Canada. We lived there. Well prior to that I was drinking and I think in some ways the drinking allowed me more flexibility, more lenience in what I would allow myself to do. And I think in some ways it even was something I could count on, something I could look forward to, because it would open up things to me that or at least it would have the appearance of opening things up to me that could come off as innocent; flirting, whatever. So yeah I don't know if I was testing myself before that. And I think it's been something that's been on my mind wondering how far would I go just because I looked forward to drinking. I looked forward to that liberation from my moral fortitude or whatever as much as there was one. [00:26:48]
And I guess I understand your question because I wonder if that failure on my part to not go beyond a point scared the hell out of me and made me question my own sense of what is appropriate. And maybe even brought that threshold way back so that any kind of thinking about you, or a classmate, or a bystander becomes inappropriate that scaled everything back to a point of puritan thinking. I don't know. [00:27:56]
THERAPIST: It's hard to know what the typical response would be. I think you were in a situation where you had an opportunity that some people never find themselves in. Who knows how different your behavior from somebody else's if they had found themselves in the exact same situation. And now it seems like you sort of test yourself and expect yourself to be so far back from any thoughts or fantasies. And this continual testing of well if I put myself in the situation where I have the opportunity what would I do. Well what would most people do? You know some people never find themselves in situations of opportunity to stray and maybe that's on purpose. They particularly avoid those situations because they don't want the temptation. [00:28:44]
CLIENT: Well and that's in some way part of why I don't drink. I don't want to be in that situation where that could happen. But I also fear at this point that I wouldn't need alcohol to do that.
THERAPIST: What makes you fear that? What makes you believe that?
CLIENT: Well I don't know. I guess it's just the presence of those fantasies.
THERAPIST: Have you ever acted out fantasies?
CLIENT: I'm not sure I can clarify your question.
THERAPIST: Have you ever been unfaithful to your wife not while drinking? [00:30:13]
CLIENT: No. I mean absolutely not.
THERAPIST: What was the question you thought I asked that was more confusing may be a better question?
CLIENT: Well acting on a fantasy perhaps when I'm by myself at home and I'm - that in a way is acting on my fantasy; self stimulating or whatever. So I guess to me that is acting on my fantasy but not necessarily engaging in it. [00:31:13]
THERAPIST: Do you feel like that's unfaithful your own judgment?
CLIENT: I don't know. It's hard because I put myself in my wife's position and I think would I be happy if I knew she would know that. No I wouldn't. But at the same time I can't know.
THERAPIST: Does it feel different to you if it's having a fantasy of a classmate or a person that you know versus if it were an actress on film or a picture in "Play Boy"? [00:32:06]
CLIENT: Oh yeah absolutely. It has to. I think the fantasy is developed. The more developed the more interaction I have with it. I think it also has to do with how likely a scenario it is. So I think more often than not it's somebody who's shown me feedback, shown me interest. I find this draining. But, again, it must be the intimate vulnerability I'm revealing I guess. [00:33:54]
THERAPIST: It's a lot to process and I think the fact that you feel drained it's a sign that you're doing the work that you need to do. If it were easy it would just be chit chat and that's not...
CLIENT: I know.
THERAPIST: Small talk is not that valuable to you in here.
CLIENT: No. I can't really judge how draining it is because I'm drained to begin with.
THERAPIST: You're sure not going to be tired today.
CLIENT: Yeah, exactly. So yeah I mean I think in some ways acting on those fantasies at home does cause me some shame but not so much that I stop doing it. [00:34:57]
THERAPIST: A while back you had mentioned that your libido had let you down and it was the day your wife noticed. How's that? Is that better? Is that the same?
CLIENT: I think it's coming back in the past week or so. But it's back but I think it's one of those things that if I'm really busy I can just kind of shut it off. But I don't know. I also know that during that time I was also acting on those fantasies. [00:36:01]
THERAPIST: So you're interested in having sex with her was down but you were masturbating the same as typical for you?
CLIENT: Yeah. Well not as often but it wasn't like I was just...
THERAPIST: So that says its more maybe to do with - It's not really as much as to do with your libido. It's more to do with something that's different about engaging with her; a real person, another person, a real person to you.
CLIENT: Yeah. I mean I think that is part of it, but I think also that I just have no interest at all. Again, I'm not sure if it's the amount of stress I was under, the amount of focus I was trying to maintain, but it was not... I just wasn't interested. [00:37:20]
And I don't think it has anything to do with my losing interest in her. I just think... I don't know. I guess I wonder what the intimacy there and if that's what I was avoiding. Because if I'm occasionally doing that at the time, acting on a fantasy that develops no intimacy, what am I saying, what am I doing by avoiding that? [00:38:17]
THERAPIST: Good questions.
CLIENT: And I don't know the answer.
THERAPIST: I think something to explore is thinking about what it feels like and what it means to be vulnerable with your wife what that intimacy does for you and what is scary about it. I think these are interesting questions to explore because the fantasies that you have about others and the feelings that you carry about it, whether it be guilt, or shame, or excitement, that has to somehow be connected also or have some impact to trying to connect it on your relationship with your wife and how you feel about it or what enhances it? [00:39:08]
CLIENT: Yeah I guess I wonder... I mean it's something I've wondered about as far as do I just feel like she's not worthy of me because I'm having these thoughts or I'm not worthy of her. So I don't know. I guess I do think though that in the past two or three weeks that she and I do continue to grow closer; not just in the past two or three weeks. And honestly there are times when... I mean there are times. I guess I'm not even sure what intimacy is. I can find it occasionally but as far as a broad category I don't know if my definition is too narrow, or if it's happening and I'm just not calling it that, or if it never happens. I just don't know. [00:40:49]
THERAPIST: I'd like to mark that as something important to talk about and maybe exploring what your definition is, what kind of feelings that brings up, how you recognize it. It seems like you're sort of right on target with where you're going. And I know that last time you mentioned wanting to come up with some goals to have in mind and I know you didn't talk about that today but I think it's a good idea and we should get to it. [00:41:20]
CLIENT: Yeah, it sounds good.
THERAPIST: Trying to make a point... I think you're making good progress on a goal even though we haven't named it.
CLIENT: Yeah, and I think one of the things that I'm struggling with in the goals category is that my dad will be here in late April and I'm still struggling to communicate to him what I'm going through. And I don't know if it has to happen before then, if it has to happen after then, it's certainly not going to happen while he's here. It's just three or four days and it's just not... [00:42:04]
THERAPIST: That's an intense time.
CLIENT: Yeah. And as far as the things in my day it's not even on the list.
THERAPIST: Yeah, the days go by and it gets closer.
CLIENT: Yeah exactly.
THERAPIST: Okay. Well keeping that in mind that dad is going to be here in April, you're feeling really unsure about what you want to do with that, and the intimacy and fantasies in relationship with your wife question, that brings me to the next thing which was I know we had talked about would it be beneficial to come weekly since time is limited and there's a lot you want to do.
CLIENT: Well I won't rule it out. I think it's just a matter of which week it is.
THERAPIST: Okay.
CLIENT: My next week on this day I turn 39.
THERAPIST: Congratulations. [00:43:00]
CLIENT: There were a lot of doubts out there.
THERAPIST: Well I could either meet... So your birthday's on the 30<sup>th</sup>?
CLIENT: Uh huh.
THERAPIST: I could either meet with you on your birthday. I also have time Monday the 27<sup>th</sup>.
CLIENT: I'm going to have (inaudible at 00:43:25) calendar year.
THERAPIST: I can usually jump onto FedEx.
CLIENT: Huh?
THERAPIST: You can usually jump onto the FedEx site if you need to get online to see your calendar.
CLIENT: Oh no, no it's here. It's on my phone. What do you have available?
THERAPIST: On Monday I have a 2:30, a 3:30, or 12:30. On Tuesday I have a 12:30, that's a very good spot, or 3:50. [00:44:06]
CLIENT: Can I let you know?
THERAPIST: Sure.
CLIENT: 12:30. Actually next Tuesday would probably be fine but if you could just have me penciled for that.
THERAPIST: Sure. So you want to pencil in for the 12:30 on Tuesday?
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: And I already had you in for the following Tuesday (inaudible at 00:44:49).
CLIENT: Okay. I'm trying to collect all my syllabi and map out when things are due so I can see what pockets are bad.
THERAPIST: Okay.
CLIENT: That didn't...
THERAPIST: So I'll expect to see you unless I hear otherwise.
CLIENT: Yeah, me too. [00:45:47]
END TRANSCRIPT
