<font size="4"><b>Chapter III: Universe of Horror</b></font>

1. <i>Twilight</i>


The following account of the deep caverns of the soul
to which the depressive phase of manic depression leads is
being written while I seem to be on the threshold of the
phase. My last manic attack ended about four months
ago. It was rapidly and effectively cured by electrical
convulsion therapy, the first time this has been tried on
me.


There is no doubt in my mind that the convulsion therapy
has effected a more radical cure of my elation than I have
experienced for several years. The only trouble is that it may
have pushed me over into the reverse phase.
<a href="javascript: __showhidenote('_note_709');">[note]</a><div id="_note_709" style="display:none;background-color:#FFDD99;margin:0px;border:2px solid #800000; padding:2px;">* It did not. I soon got back to normal without treatment. For detailed
description of the effects of convulsion therapy, see Appendix B.</div>
It will be seen
by reference to the table at the beginning of the last chapter
that I have not had a serious depressive attack since 1940. I
have had tendencies to depression on occasion, but I have
succeeded in conquering them, mainly by hanging on like
grim death to the consciousness of relationship with God
which came to me in my manic phases. Now, however, that
sense is becoming increasingly difficult to recapture. It is as
though the shock or convulsion turned a great switch in my
system, putting out the light, mad though it was, and plunging
me into what the mystics, notably St Theresa, call the
Dark Night of the Soul. Or rather, at the moment I am in a
sort of twilight, more like what St Theresa calls a "State of
Dryness", which may change into the night of horror that I
know so well.


The features of the depressive state are precisely the reverse
of those of the manic. Instead of the sense of well-being

[p. <i>61</i>]

"... to move among a world of ghosts
And feel myself the shadow of a dream."


<a href="javascript: __showhidenote('_note_2035');">[note]</a><div id="_note_2035" style="display:none;background-color:#FFDD99;margin:0px;border:2px solid #800000; padding:2px;">* Tennyson, "The Princess".</div>


This feeling is closely linked with a sort of strengthening of the
barriers of individuality, a hardening of the shell of the ego. I
seem shut into myself, withdrawn from real contact with the
outer world as also from contact with God; the sun does not
really shine, the trees and fields are not really green; I am
shut in with my thoughts, always of a depressing and melancholy
nature.


This sense of isolation, of being cut off from God, one's fellows
and the world, seems to me to be the paramount feature
underlying the whole state and I shall be describing in due
course the lengths to which my mind can carry it. It is a sense
which appears at the root of several psychoses; Janet has
called it the "maladie de l'isolement".
<a href="javascript: __showhidenote('_note_2865');">[note]</a><div id="_note_2865" style="display:none;background-color:#FFDD99;margin:0px;border:2px solid #800000; padding:2px;">P. Janet, "Les Obsessions et la Psycasthnie", Vol. I, p. 308.</div>
Just as its opposite,
the breach in the barriers of individuality, seemed connected
with the inhibition of the sense of repulsion, so this state involves
a heightened sense of repulsion and horror of dirt and
repulsive objects carried to absurd lengths. To give a homely
if somewhat coarse instance, I have at times felt impelled to
use up to twenty pieces of toilet-paper.


Moral tension returns in full force. I am haunted by a
sense of guilt; my conscience gives me no rest, even when
there do not seem to be any particularly grievous sins upon it.
Whatever I am doing I feel I ought to be doing something
else. I worry perpetually about my past sins and failures; not
for a moment can I forget the mess I seem to have made of
my life. However I may pray for and think of forgiveness,
no forgiveness comes. Eventually the terrors of Hell approach.


This state is so exactly what is described by the mystics
that I will give two quotations. The French mystic Madame
Guyon writes: "everything seemed to me full of faults; my
charities, my alms, my prayers, my penances; one and all

[p. <i>62</i>]

St Theresa's description gives exactly what happens in my
mind as depression progresses. She writes of her mind being
"obscured". That is what is happening to my mind at the
very moment I am writing. Instead of the light of ineffable
revelation I seem to be in perpetual fog and darkness. I
cannot get my mind to work; instead of associations "clicking
into place" everything is an inextricable jumble; instead of
seeming to grasp a whole, it seems to remain tied to the actual
consciousness of the moment. The whole world of my
thought is hopelessly divided into incomprehensible watertight
compartments. I could not feel more ignorant, undecided,
or inefficient. It is appallingly difficult to concentrate,
and writing is pain and grief to me.


As for wickedness, although my mind has not reached the
stage of regarding myself as the most wicked person in the
world and responsible for all the sin and evil afflicting mankind,
I know too well that it can do so. That appalling self-centredness
is the reverse of the delusions of gradneur and
power. It leads to the uttermost depths.


2. <i>The Horrific Vision</i>


The best way to give an idea of what happens to the mind
in the extremes of depression is to describe in some detail my
last attack, which came early in 1939, shortly after the
episode which took me to Brixton.


Twice before I had suffered from serious depression, with

[p. <i>63</i>]

In Chapter II wrote of a metaphorical table-land, off
which the manic-depressive slips in one direction or another,
until the last grips on reality are lost and the Unconscious
takes charge. Here I want to refer to a further factor, which
is a little difficult to fit into the metaphor.


In my experience there seems to run through manic-depressive
states a sort of dividing line between the earthly and
the transcendental, or perhaps one might even say the phenomenal
and the noumenal. In more ordinary medical parlance,
there are states both of mania and depression which do
not involve the illusions and hallucinations, the ecstasies and
horrors, the overwhelming forces of the deep Unconscious,
with its Heaven and Hell, its Gods and Goddesses, witches,
warlocks and devils.


In my previous states of depression I had never really lost
my grip of reality. I had begun to slip off the table-land down
the slope to the left, but there was still as it were a ridge in
front of me which might hold me up. I was utterly miserable
and wanted to die, but my fears, troubles and worries were of
normal human mischances which might happen to anybody.


I feared poverty, failure in life, inability to educate my children,
making my wife miserable, losing her, ending up in the
gutter as the most revolting type of beggar and so on. My
fears had in fact become so overpowering as to appear to me
like certainties, but they were only earthly, human fears.
Beyond the ridge bordering this ordinary universe of common
human experience unending horrors awaited me. But I
did not know; I had not crossed it, at any rate in that
direction.


Had I had anything like the insight into my own mind that
I have now attained, I should have known what to expect, for
during the foregoing manic period I had crossed the ridge

[p. <i>64</i>]

If you are a saint, you may, I suppose, aspire to see the
Beatific Vision without experiencing its opposite, which I will
call the Horrific Vision. You struggle and sacrifice and
mortify your flesh; you pass through the "Cloud of Unknowing"
and the Dark Night of the Soul when you feel, like St
Theresa, that God has deserted you, but you need not necessarily
go through the terrors of Hell. None the less, many
famous religious leadersMartin Luther and John Bunyan
are notable cases in pointhave experienced something of
the kind, and for the ordinary sinner it is sound Catholic
doctrine that Heaven without Purgatory is inconceivable.


Thus, since I had had experience of Heaven, it was only
reasonable to expect that I should be shown Hell in due
course. Let me try to summon up all my descriptive powers
to give some idea of the pass to which conscience can bring a
human soul, once it has slipped over the ridge to the left of
the narrow plateau and lost its foothold on reality.


I lay in my bed in the ward of the Hospital dominated
above all by an overpowering sense of fear. At first I did not
know exactly what it was that I feared, except of course that
my mind, which I strove as hard as I could to keep blank,
would insist on working about the ordinary, human fears I
have outlined above. Wisely, no attempt was made to get me
up, and I lay as motionless as I could, covering my head as a
rule with the bedclothes, partly to shut out the sights and
sounds of the ward, and partly as a sort of instinctive
reaction.


Dr W. H. R. Rivers in his suggestive work <i>Instinct and
the Unconscious</i> has given one of the probable reasons for
this attitude.
<a href="javascript: __showhidenote('_note_10398');">[note]</a><div id="_note_10398" style="display:none;background-color:#FFDD99;margin:0px;border:2px solid #800000; padding:2px;">* "Instinct and the Unconscious", pp. 61 ff.</div>
It was the reaction of the animal who under

[p. <i>65</i>]

About the second reason I am not so clear. I believe, however,
that to cover oneself up with the bedclothes suggests, at
any rate to some extent, the safety of the mother's womb, the
ultimate refuge, according to good Freudian doctrine, towards
which so much psychological striving is directed.


Anyway, there I lay for some days, only putting my head
outside the clothes to eat my food, take my drugs, and for
absolutely necessary purposes. Gradually, however, the
sounds if not the sights of the ward forced themselves in on my
consciousness.


In the bed opposite me there lay, also in a state of extreme
misery and dejection, a patient named Bar_____. He moaned
unceasingly; I could not help hearing what he said. He only
said two words, at least I never remember hearing him say
anything else. Those words were, "no hope, no hope, no
hope," ceaselessly repeated in a hollow moan. I soon learnt
his name; it began with the fatal syllable Bar.


I was barred, my mind began to repeat to me, barred from
hope, there was no hope for me. The obvious association soon
followed. I do not know much Italian, but I had once made
an attempt to read parts of Dante's <i>Inferno</i> in the original.


<i>Lasciate ogni speranza voi ch'entrate</i>.


So that was where I was going was it? No, I tried to argue
with myself, it was impossible. There must be some hope,
some escape from Hell. A Creator who condemned his creatures
to eternal punishment, whatever their sins, would be a
monster, and the God of Jesus was a God of love. This

[p. <i>66</i>]

There was a very charming Anglican parson in the ward,
whom I will call G.G., as he may prefer me not to mention
his name. On various occasions he had done me little kindnesses,
and though I hardly talked to anybody, I did now
and then talk to him. As the subject of Hell was getting on
my mind, I broached it to him in an endeavour to get some
reassurance.


G.G., however, was not impressed by my reasoning. He
brought his little Bible along and produced texts to prove his
thesis that an eternal Hell was a part of God's purpose and
Word, and that Jesus Christ explicitly endorsed this view.
"Everlasting fire prepared for the Devil and all his Angels",
"and these shall go away into eternal punishment, but the
righteous into eternal life", and so on. How could I argue
away the plain meaning of the words concluding the great
parable of the sheep and the goats?


I tried hard; G.G. did not defeat me in argument. But
unfortunately the inner voice of conscience told me that he
was right.


Forgiveness of sins, G.G.a most human personwent on
to explain, could be attained by those who truly repented. I
need not, indeed I should not worry about my sins; all I had
to do was to repent of them. This did not comfort me in the
least. My reasoning went roughly like this.


First of all, I had by now become quite convinced that I
was finished for good and all. There was no possible chance
of my coming out of the Hospital alive. In fact though not
actually dead, I was as good as dead. For some inscrutable
reason, perhaps because I had committed "the unforgivable
sin" or just because I was such an appalling sinner, the
worst man who had ever existed, I had been chosen to go alive
through the portals of Hell, in an ordinary English lunatic-asylum.
Therefore it was obviously too late for repentance.
It was, I knew, quite unsound theology to imagine that
people got another chance after they were dead. Obviously

[p. <i>67</i>]

All this I kept to myself, of course; I did not argue with
G.G. about it. Nor did I tell the doctors. They were not
particularly sympathetic and did not invite confidences;
moreover I was quite astute enough to realise that to talk on
these lines would be regarded as further proof of insanity; I
might even be certified. As long as I was voluntary, there
was perhaps just the faintest chance that I might get out and
succeed in making away with myself.


My wife, who visited me nobly at least twice a week for the
whole eleven months of my confinement, never could understand
the logic of this attitude. She was the only person to
whom I dared confide my horrors, and I tried hard to show
my train of reasoning. Roughly it was that I was a sort of
opposite of Jesus Christ. Satan's job had been to catch a
man, get him to sell his soul to him completely and utterly,
like Faust, and then take him down alive into the pit. That
was a sort of necessary counterweight to the resurrection of
Jesus and the elect. I was the man. But if I could only kill
myself, it might blow up the whole Universe, but at least I
would get out of eternal torture and achieve the oblivion and
nothingness for which my soul craved. I did in fact make
three attempts at suicide, the most serious of which was when
I tore myself from my attendant and threw myself in front of
a car, with my poor wife, who was visiting me, looking on.


Although my attempts at suicide failed, they had one satisfactory
effect; the doctors increased my drugs. As long as I
was able to attain unconsciousness at night (with the aid of
three or four doses of paraldehyde), and to maintain a fairly
soporific state during the day (with anything up to four tablets
of allonal), I could just keep the horrors at bay. My whole
conscious effort was now directed towards the aim of putting

[p. <i>68</i>]

Progressively increasing, that was the appalling part of the
picture. It seemed to me as I brooded on the problem, that
the ancient prophets, thinkers and poets, including of course
Dante, must be wrong in regarding Hell, eternal punishment,
as something static. Nothing in the Universe seemed
to be static; why should Hell be so? Nor, in fact, could
Heaven be static either. It was borne in upon me that the
creative process was all one, really. The vast evolutionary
process, from the whirling spiral nebulae to man, superman,
God, was a progressive movement forwards, or upwards, if
you prefer it. But there must always be balance, otherwise
nothing would work. So the progressive movement forwards
or upwards must be compensated by a regressive movement
backwards or downwards.


The progressive revolutionary movement upwards had its
counterpart in the world or worlds outside space and time.
This was "Heaven". The regressive movement backwards (I
was not quite clear what it actually was in the physical
world, but I knew it must exist somewhere) had its counterpart
in Hell. In Heaven, the souls of the just, of the "elect",
progressed towards increasing enjoyment, knowledge, power,

[p. <i>69</i>]

About the time I had reached this point in my compulsive
train of reasoning, possibly three months or so after my
arrival in the Hospital, I was lying one afternoonI can't
remember when; it was after I had begun to get up after
breakfastin the company of an old patient. As if specially
sent by the Powers of the Universe to confirm my train of
thought, he began to recite, in a monotonous but rhythmic
voice:Opposites, opposites; down, up; backwards, forwards;
clockwise, anti-clockwise; push, pull; hot, cold; black,
white; earth, air; fire, water. I don't remember exactly how
many opposites he mentioned, but that gives the general
idea. Jung, incidentally, regards the opposites as an important
part of the Unconscious, and I have often heard
mental patients refer to them in their delusionary or compulsive
trains of thought.


Perhaps I might just remark here in parenthesis that
gradually all the associations of my environment came to
confirm the ideas which were being forced upon me. When
the wireless happened to be on, it often seemed to be speaking
to me; something would be said to confirm or increase my
fears. This is of course a common delusion. The fact is that
the whole mechanism of association, to which reference has
been made in the previous chapter, automatically came to
work in the same direction as my thoughts. Every word, almost
every letter, of a newspaper I might chance to look at,
would contain some dire message of evil.


To illustrate this, I will try to put myself back in the condition
of mind I was in at that time, and then take the first
suggestive association that comes to hand. In front of me is a
pad of Basildon Bond writing-paper, blue. Looking at it with

[p. <i>70</i>]

In such a state of mind any normal behaviour becomes
virtually impossible. Yet at about this time I began to lead a
rather more normal life, getting up, as I said, after breakfast,
playing croquet, billiards, badminton, and so on. This was
partly due to my wife's persuasive efforts, partly to the efforts
of the attendants, and most of all, I think, to the fact that
even with the drugs I was taking I was no longer able to keep
myself in a state of drowsiness. Bed, alone with my horrors,
thus became intolerable, and occupation did keep my mind
off them for the moment. Even though my incorrigible mind
related everything, even billiards and croquet, to my terrible
predicament, as long as I could get through the time somehow
without losing control and thus starting my eternal
punishment, that was something gained.


I used to concentrate on getting through the intervals between
my wife's visits and seeing her again. As she left me,
each time, I would tell her that she would not find me there
when she came next time, and as the door shut behind her,
something clanged in my soul and I felt sick to death. But I
used to pull round and concentrate on being there for the
next visit.


By this time, say four or five months after my arrival, I had
evolved a definite technique to help me in this effort of getting
through the days and nights. I had frankly admitted my
position. God had turned His back on me and left me to
Satan, but perhaps I could persuade Satan to put off the evil
day a bit. That was all I asked for, and it seemed to me I
stood a chance of getting some postponement if I could worship
Satan really properly. So I evolved my own little rituals
they incidentally have little to do with genuine Satanism,
which is obviously much more closely associated with my
manic periods.


Every night I said the Lord's Prayer backwards, letter by

[p. <i>71</i>]

This superstition was a great help. My mother is very
superstitious; she has a horror of magpies, thirteen at a table,
and so on. I evolved little superstitions which helped to build
up my self-confidence. One was that if, as I left any room, I
fixed my eyes on something red (Satan's colour), he would
manage to get me back to that particular room or place again.
I was thus certain to be preserved from eternal punishment
until I went back to that room. This was the most reassuring
of my superstitions, and I did not abandon it, nor for that
matter did I dare to pray the right way round, till long after I
had got back home again. There were many others; some
depending on pure suggestion, like an idea I had that as long
as I had a box of <i>dates</i>, I could be sure of having a <i>date</i> with
my wife. Many were connected with my games. For example
in billards God was represented by the plain ball and the
devil by spot. In no game in which I was concerned, therefore,
could I allow plain to win. As long as spot won the
devil would save me. If spot looked like losing I would make
some excuse and leave the game.


Further details would only be wearisome. I come now to
the central feature of my whole experience. Somehow I want
to find adequate words to describe the dawn of what I may
call the Horrific Vision.


I am not quite sure when it began to break in upon me, but
it was certainly within the first month or so, when I was still
in bed. Thereafter it progressed <i>pari passu</i> with my ideas;
it never left me for an instant.

[p. <i>72</i>]

A crumpled pillow is quite an ordinary everyday object, is
it not? One looks at it and thinks no more about it? So is a
washing-rag, or a towel tumbled on the floor, or the creases
on the side of a bed. Yet they can suggest shapes of the utmost
horror to the mind obsessed by fear. Gradually my eyes
began to distinguish such shapes, until eventually, whichever
way I turned, I could see nothing but devils waiting to torment
me, devils which seemed infinitely more real than the
material objects in which I saw them.


They had names, too. There was the god Baal, with a
cruel mouth like a slit (a wrinkle in the side of a bed), waiting
to devour me as a living sacrifice. There was Hecate, who
used generally to appear in pillows, her shape was, I think,
the most horrible of all. When I went out I saw devils by the
hundred in trees and bushes, and especially in cut wood,
generally in serpent form. Even now, I can still see them on
occasion; the trick of illusion by which they appeared remains
with me to some extent; and now that I am depressed
again I cannot help wondering if they will reawaken the
sense of utter terror that they did when they first appeared. I
thought I had exorcised them, but now I am not so sure.


With these visions surrounding me it is not strange that the
material world should seem less and less real. I felt myself to
be gradually descending alive into the pit by a sort of metamorphosis
of my surroundings. At times the whole universe
seemed to be dissolving about me; moving cracks and fissures
would appear in the walls and floors. This, incidentally, is a
phenomenon which I have often noticed in the opposite state
of acute mania, though it has then, of course, a totally different
underlying feeling-tone. The climax of this sense of
unreality was an extraordinary vision which is difficult to
classify under the normal head of "illusion", though it was
not a hallucination or apparition either. It seems to me to
have interesting philosophical and psychological implications.


There was a series of sporting prints round the walls of the
ward day-room. They were so placed that, if you sat in an
arm-chair with your back to the large windows, and facing

[p. <i>73</i>]

I used generally to sit concentrating on a novelthat was
another good way of keeping the horrors at baywith my
back to the windows; there seemed to be fewer devils in the
ward than there Were outside, somehow. Little by little, over
a period of about a month or six weeks probably, the reflection
of No. 9 ward was distorted. The chimneys left the vertical
plane and moved round to the horizontal, eventually to
forty or fifty degrees below the horizontal, while the reflection
of the building itself became correspondingly curved,
until the whole vertical structure formed a sort of inverted U.
This puzzled me greatly; I don't think I was horrified at
first. What could it mean? My vision was otherwise quite
normal; I could play badminton, billiards, and so on. But
whenever I sat in one of those chairs and looked at the prints,
I could see this strange phenomenon.


Certainly I was bewitched. But that was no new discovery;
it did not frighten me more than I was frightened in
any case.


Then, suddenly, the answer came. Bishop Berkeley was
right; the whole universe of space and time, of my own senses,
was really an illusion. Or it was so for me, at any rate. There
I was, shut in my own private universe, as it were, with no
contact with real people at all, only with phantasmagoria
who could at any moment turn into devils. I and all around
me were utterly unreal. There in the reflection lay proof
positive. My soul was finally turned into nothingness
except unending pain.


It was getting dark when this burst upon me. I shivered;
my teeth were chattering with sheer terror. And then I saw a
star.


My father used to talk to me a great deal about stars. He
was fascinated, like Hardy's young astronomer in <i>Two on a
Tower</i>, by the vast perspective of space and time which they
open up to the human mind. And he fascinated me. When I

[p. <i>74</i>]

Not long before my attack, I had been reading James
Joyce's <i>Portrait of the Artist as a Young Man</i>. The description
it gives of a sermon preached by a Jesuit father on the
meaning of damnation had made a great impression on me.
As I sat there I could recall almost every word.


"For ever," says the preacher, "for all eternity. Try to
imagine the awful meaning of this. You have often seen the
sand on the seashore.... How many of those tiny grains go to
make up the small handful which a child grasps in its play?
Now imagine a mountain of that sand a million miles high
... and a million miles broad... and a million miles in
thickness; and imagine such an enormous mass of countless
particles of sand multiplied as often as there are leaves in the
forest, drops of water in the mighty ocean, feathers on birds,

[p. <i>75</i>]

At that moment I had reached the extremity of fear.
Paroxysms of terror overcame me, and I nearly jumped
straight out of the window with the idea of killing myself
with the broken glass. But the fit passed, and looking back I
date my improvement and subsequent recovery from that
moment. No imagination could produce a greater horror
than that vision of infinitely increasing physical pain through
astronomical time. My soul had plumbed the lowest depth.


There is little more to tell about that awful attack of depressive
insanity. Although for months yet my mind went on
revolving in the same channels of fear and despair, the weight
of the anticipated horror and pain seemed to be lifted, to recede
as it were. I was able to behave more normally, until in
March 1940 my family took the risk of bringing me home,
quite against the doctor's advice. It was a wise decision. I
nearly shot myself once when I got at my guns at last; my toe
was on the trigger and the muzzle in my mouth. But I did

[p. <i>76</i>]

3. <i>Repulsion and Sin</i>


If I were asked to characterise in the briefest possible way,
the whole experience of the depressive phase, I would describe
it as a total reaction of repulsion between those fundamental
poles of all being as we perceive it, which can be
roughly and variously designated as the individual and the
environment, the "I" and the "Not I", the ego and "the
other", the perceiver and the perceived (including inner perceptions),
or even as the soul and God. The basis of that repulsion
seems to be fear, or "anxiety", to use the word
generally employed to translate the Freudian concept of
"Angst". And in the last analysis, as I have tried to show, the
fear or anxiety seems to resolve itself at the climax into the
fear of physical pain in the most terrifying form.


There is something quite logical about this. At the very
beginning of the evolution of the nervous system, the essential
foundation of all conscious life, this type of reaction, a total
reaction to the environment, is all that is possible. The
simplest forms of animal life, that is to say the simplest organisms
with the power of motion, are merely aware of changes
of a pleasant or unpleasant nature in their environment,
and they move accordingly towards or away from the source.
W. H. R. Rivers regards this as the origin of the protopathic
sensibility of the nervous system, which has been proved
(Head's experiment on sensory changes) to be crude and
vague without the possibility of localisation.
<a href="javascript: __showhidenote('_note_36539');">[note]</a><div id="_note_36539" style="display:none;background-color:#FFDD99;margin:0px;border:2px solid #800000; padding:2px;">* W. H. R. Rivers, "Instinct and the Unconscious", pp. 23-4.</div>
He opposes to
this the far more delicate epicritic sensibility, which appears
to be of a wholly different kind and, in his own words,
"enables the many forms of reaction which become possible
when the exact nature of the stimulating object is recognised".
Rivers associates the instincts with protopathic sensibility,
centred in the thalamus, and intelligence with epicritic
sensibility, which depends on the cortex. He points out

[p. <i>77</i>]

Certainly it seems to me that my reactions in the depressive
phase are crude in this sense, or "total", the word I used
above. There is little or no discrimination; everything is
abhorrent to me, everything repels me, everything frightens
me. My consciousness has as it were regressed to that earliest
stage of the simple organism which, finding its environment
unpleasant, wants to get away at all costs. I want to get
away into the nothingness of annihilation, hence my suicidal
impulses. Yet the unpleasantness of my situation thrusts itself
upon my consciousness with all the intensity and with all the
endless variety and refinement of torture made possible with
the vast and intricate development of the nervous system in
man. Infinite possibilities of horror and pain occur to me. If
I have the slightest pain, that pain becomes in anticipation
infinite and increasing, absorbing my whole consciousness.
Every unpleasant reaction or thought is magnified to the
limit.


Much the same is true, <i>mutatis mutandis</i>, of the manic
phase. There is the same total reaction, of pleasure instead of
pain, or "unpleasure". Instead of being repelled, with horror
and fear, from my environment, I am attracted to it. I feel,
as I have tried to explain, "at one" with the Universe.


Later on in this book, I propose to put forward some tentative
and very speculative ideas to which reflection on the
strange phenomenon of manic-depression has led me. At
this point it will suffice to stress that there really does seem to
be something fundamental about it, something at the very
core of existence.


Attraction and repulsion, naturally opposing and mutually
balancing, are at the root of the physical universe; gravitation,
for example, is balanced by centrifugal force to hold the
stars and planets on their courses in intelligible systems. I am
not sufficiently versed in modern physics to discuss its effects

[p. <i>78</i>]

Although the entities, "I" and "Not-I", ego and "other",
between which this attraction and repulsion takes place, may
be described as the fundamental poles of being as we perceive
it, the distinction between them is not easy to make.
Psychological research has shown that it is a gradual growth,
that the human infant, for example, finds it at first exceedingly
difficult, and incidentally very unpleasant as well. As I
have tried to explain, the process of repulsion between the
two entities which takes place in the depressive phase leads to
an increasingly sharp division; the ego becomes more and
more isolated, while its pain and fear at this isolation grow
correspondingly. Conversely in the manic phase the attraction
between the ego and the outside world or "other"
destroys these barriers and produces a sense of oneness
coupled with intense joy, which is presumably a regression to
the infantile state of consciousness before the differentiation
took place. Except ye become as a new born infant, or,
better still, a foetus in the womb, ye shall not enter into the
Kingdom of Heaven.


In the Kingdom of Hell which depression reveals, the
ego is not merely cut off; it is also increasingly restricted,

[p. <i>79</i>]

It is quite evident both from my own introspective experiences
and from rational considerations that this phenomenon
of attraction and repulsion between the ego and
"the other" must be intimately linked with the attraction and
repulsion in respect of excreta and other normally repulsive
objects to which reference has been made. And it is, as we
saw in that connection, closely bound up with the sense of sin.


This in depression is dominating and all-pervading, as I
have tried to show. It can reach incredible extremes. Yet I
have always found it difficult to give a rational answer to a
question my wife often put to me during the course of my depression.
How could I possibly imagine, she asked, that my
sins were so appalling as to make me the unforgivable,
uniquely evil creature I conceived myself to be? What were
these sins, anyway?


As far as I can analyse it, the sense of sin from which I
suffered was dominated by two factors. The first factor was a
tremendous sense of repulsion towards and guilt in respect of
the whole of consciousness associated with the manic period.
It seemed to me that during that period I had been controlled
by a "power of evil". I had "sold myself to Satan",
who had "tempted me" with the lovely but wicked visions of
mania, and I was now placed in irremediable opposition to
the "power of good", or "God". The second factor was an
overpowering sense of sexual sin.


Reason tells me that I am a very ordinary sinner, addicted

[p. <i>80</i>]

My fall, like that of Adam, was entirely sexual. I had
strange fantasies, I remember, about the Garden of Eden,
connected with a man called Adamson, who used to walk on
occasion in the garden of my ward. There was a tree there
which to me was the Tree of Knowledge. Adamson had a
curious trick of grimacing with his false teeth, which made
him look rather like pictures of primitive man. Undoubtedly
he was Pithecanthropus Anthropus Adam come to life again.
I did not see Eve.


Except in shapes of horror, women never appeared in my
depressive phantasies. I was dominated by a sense of repulsion
to women and all forms of sensuality, bound up with my
sense of sin. It was as though the whole tide of Eros in my
being was at the lowest ebb. This is a regular feature of my
depressive periods; even in minor attacks I cannot even
trouble to notice a pretty girl. At the same time I am practically
impotent, and if I attempt sexual relations premature
ejaculation makes them virtually impossible. Precisely the
opposite conditions prevail in manic periods.


Everything, in fact, seems to suggest that the opposed states
of manic-depression are closely related with or possibly
caused by some fundamental opposition or process connected

[p. <i>81</i>]
