Transcript of Audio File:
______________________________________________________________________________
BEGIN TRANSCRIPT:
THERAPIST: I feel bad about running late. Sorry.
CLIENT: That's okay. (background noise) When our sessions run late it's usually because you're waiting for a more natural conclusion so I'm pretty okay with waiting for that for other people.
THERAPIST: Thank you.
CLIENT: So Kirsten went back to the ER on Friday with the family (ph) gastrointestinal thing or abdominal pain and high blood pressure and high fever and they kept her in till Sunday. She almost certainly has Crohn's disease. So I stayed there in the ER basically all day Friday. She went in at 5:00, she got pulled up into an overnight bed at 1:00 or a little after midnight and I got back around 1:00. And I think that was really important to do and I felt good about doing it but I definitely...I ended up just not doing well the last couple of days. I think in part I know she just needed a whole lot of support. I can deal with that but there's a toll that it takes. It takes so much more of a toll on me than I realized. [00:02:05]
She is basically...she's just gotten to a point where hospitals make her really anxious and so she's just needed somebody to sit with her and talk to her and hold her hand while they're drawing blood. Just kind of talk about the more rational fears that she has and kind of talk down the more irrational fears like if there's any chance that you have cancer they're not just going to let that fly. They freak out about cancer. Don't worry.
But I don't know, the last couple of days, I just... (pause). I will randomly just start crying in the middle of whatever I'm doing and not cry for long but not feel like it's gone a way. My friend Candace is visiting. I was supposed to go see her this weekend because it was her birthday but I wasn't...I just really wasn't up for a trip to Maryland I turned that down. [00:03:28]
THERAPIST: This coming weekend you're supposed to see her?
CLIENT: No, I was supposed to see her this past weekend but since she was going up to Cape Cod for a week anyways so she's spending last night and tonight with me and that's really good. I'm really...she's a really easy person to be with and I care a lot about her and I'm really glad she's here. She's very different from Kirsten. She and Kirsten were roommates and then she and I were roommates and then Kirsten and I were roommates (chuckle) and she was like, "Do not room with Kirsten!" (laughter) Basically I think she had a really bad experience living with Kirsten. You know, I've kind of talked about Kirsten. She's just very needy and I think I find that easier to deal with than Candace does. [00:04:28]
(pause) Kirsten has been...Kirsten's mom came up to see her and has been staying in a hotel so Kirsten's been staying with her in the hotel room for the weekend and I think that's probably good. Yes. And I got to spend a day and a half by myself which was good and be...there's less. Like Kirsten and Candace and I, there's weird friendship competition that I don't really know what to do with.
(pause) There was a very funny moment. Kirsten and I have gotten pretty close and Candace and her current roommate have gotten very close (inaudible) is wonderful. But the last time I went down to see Candace in Maryland which was, I don't know, maybe five or six months, we basically had to have a conversation where we were like, "Don't worry, my current roommate (overlapping voices). You're still the best roommate ever." (chuckle) It was nice, yeah. [00:05:48]
I have no idea why she likes (inaudible). She's really nice (ph). (pause) Yeah, I wish I could see her more often. (pause) Well I feel like I shouldn't actually wish this (inaudible) because it doesn't turn out so much well for me, but I wish that she would go back for her PhD in theology. She's pretty...she's just very committed to the church, the Catholic church, in a way that is both very committed to it and really trying to create change and I think (inaudible). I'm not sure they'll be nice to her but...yeah she could. [00:07:15]
THERAPIST: [They really need] (ph) people like her.
CLIENT: They really do and the way that the Catholic church is structured, because they don't take women seriously unless they have PhD's basically.
THERAPIST: So she'd need one of those.
CLIENT: (chuckle) Yeah. Part of the current strife between Kirsten and Candace is that when Candace decided not to go straight on to a PhD and teach school instead there was just this implicit assumption among all of the students at William &amp; Mary, all of the students that we knew who were going on, that she was no longer a theologian and I find that fucking ridiculous. She finds that...I think she was really hurt by that. So Kirsten and whole bunch of the different women students at various universities — mostly William &amp; Mary — started a blog called Women in Religion and they did not ask Candace to join and be a part of it. And I don't think it was an intended slight. I think they just assumed that she's no longer a theologian, (pause) which I think says a lot about the way we think about intellectual life within (ph) our community. [00:08:43]
My social skills suck these days. Every time I've been around people I've been (pause) not exactly hypo-manic but kind of some of the same things, like talking really fast, being really excited, mostly just not being able to pick up on the social cues of other people or not being able to listen well enough or not being able to stop going enough to listen to them. And it's like I can...as I'm doing it there's a part of me that's like, "What are you doing Tanya?" I just, I don't like that. [00:09:51]
I don't know if its that I'm not spending enough time with people or whether it's that I don't know how (pause)...I'm so unhappy when I'm alone that it's a real relief to kind of get out of my head.
THERAPIST: I wonder whether (pause) [you're coming across the moving away] (ph) worried how you're...how bad your feelings will break through.
CLIENT: I worry about that.
THERAPIST: You're kind of covering it over or talking about something else or not quite being in the moment. [00:10:56]
CLIENT: Yeah. (pause) I don't always feel that bad but it's not predictable in when it's going to breakthrough. I kind of...I feel like I kind of rev myself up in order to be in situations where I need to be transient (ph). (pause)
I have not started working on this new job yet. (inaudible) Got started on Thursday but Friday I went with Kirsten to the hospital and then the last two days I just haven't been able to do work. I don't know. And then getting Candace (inaudible). It's only 15 hours a week and he's away this week. (inaudible) But that worries me. I feel like I need to be doing (inaudible). I worry that (pause) when I'm sad I can't even face the thought of it so I'm worried that I'm not going to be able to do a good job. I'm upset too much of the time. It just takes...I have to be in the right place to cultivate the focus and I need this kind of calm focus place where these generally work or where I can really work. (inaudible) is hard to get to. [00:13:06]
[So I've been watching a lot of TV during the day.] (ph) (pause) I've been watching Bones.
THERAPIST: Bones?
CLIENT: Yeah. Have you seen any of that?
THERAPIST: Uh uh.
CLIENT: Don't. (laughter)
THERAPIST: Okay!
CLIENT: It's actually, for a show that gets so many things so wrong, it's a really good show. I really enjoy it, but it's kind of premised on there being this division between the rational scientific mind and the intuitive, emotional person or two types of people and the two main characters represent each type. They start off these dichotomies that are just false and they all resolve them in different ways. Sometimes they gesture at recognizing that those are false dichotomies but sometimes not. It is really funny in that one of the main characters is a forensics anthropologist who seems to have never realized in anthropology classes she took in college were not actually science. And then one of the other main characters is a psychologist so they have anthro-psyche (inaudible) once in a while which are incredible entertaining. (chuckle) But other than that, they've got a good relationship thing going on sometimes. [00:14:51]
It's like I watch an episode and then I pause before the next episode so I can get food or to go to the bathroom and I just start crying and then I go, "Well, I don't know what to do about this," and then I watch the next episode.
THERAPIST: What happens when you're crying?
CLIENT: It's not that I'm angry at myself right now. I'm just...I just don't want to do this. I don't know. (pause) It's like I was carrying groceries from the tea (ph) stop back up to my apartment yesterday and they were heavy but not too heavy and I just started crying in the middle of the street and I just wanted to put everything down and sit down and just stay there. [00:16:16]
THERAPIST: (pause) Do you feel like that now?
CLIENT: Right now, yeah. This morning I didn't. I had stuff to do with this. (inaudible) to do it. I was looking forward to doing it. But now that kind of stopped (inaudible). It's like I don't always realize (crying) how much it takes out of me to get up and get dressed and go into campus and (pause) send an e-mail to the person at the insurance company or all of the details. [00:17:27]
THERAPIST: Maybe sometimes even (inaudible) it takes some putting yourself together to not stress and be upset.
CLIENT: Yeah. You know, I have (pause)...I'm not used to when I'm upset. I can't do the things I need to do and so I can't let myself go there but even when I'm by myself and I could just be upset and be okay with that I can't let myself do that either. I just start crying and then I just kind of shut it off.
(pause) I can't really tell a difference between genuinely not being sad and just not letting myself feel sad at that moment. I can't tell which one I am most of the time. When I start crying and when I start to be upset in a way that I can recognize I usually feel like I've been that way for a long time but I don't know that I trust that feeling. [00:19:17]
THERAPIST: I think you're really scared of being so upset.
CLIENT: Yeah, I don't want that. It hurts. (pause) It just really, really hurts (crying) and I can't get myself...once I get into it I can't always get myself out of it and (pause) I always (inaudible) I am just in so much pain and there is nothing I can do about it and I don't know long it's going to last. Yeah, it is really scary.
(silence from [00:20:05] to 00:20:27)
THERAPIST: I guess it also seems that when you have some more (ph) time for it or during periods where you've been somewhat more in touch with it, I think you then tend to feel a bit more solid (pause) as a contrast to I guess like the last few days where you had other things going on that have occupied you.
CLIENT: I'm not sure about that. My experience has been that when I'm more in touch with it (inaudible) spending more time just being mad. I'm just there. And that's really scary and I'm afraid that I'm going to kill myself or I'm afraid that I'll try. (pause) Yeah. (pause)
Very occasionally it'll feel like I move through it and then I'm kind of more at peace for a while but usually not for longer than a day, or a day or two, and easier to push me back into (inaudible whisper). I'm not saying it's not a better way to deal with these emotions than just kind of pushing them down. I just don't think that (pause)...I don't think it makes me feel better. [00:23:02]
THERAPIST: [Just unsure footing?] (ph)
CLIENT: Yeah, no.
(silence from [00:23:08] to 00:23:35)
Yeah, I mean, that's why I think about dying. I just have the feeling I haven't been there these couple of weeks.
(pause) I'm starting a new medication today, Depakote?
THERAPIST: Depakote?
CLIENT: Yeah, we'll see, trying not to kill myself. (pause) I just don't know what else to do. (pause) It's really easy for me to think, for me to not think, about (pause) the depression and being sad. It's really easy for me to pretend like that's not just waiting around the corner. And also it's not easy at all.
(silence from [00:25:32] to 00:25:58)
Yeah, I (pause) feel like I'm...I just feel like I'm not [going to be prepared] (ph) next time. (inaudible whisper) This is just too much for me.
(silence from [00:26:29] to 00:27:03)
I told Kirsten that she should reach out to the counseling center in Maryland because anxiety — the kind that....I mean she has really bad anxiety, worse than I do, where she throws up — some say there are ways to deal with that, good techniques. Even if you just deal with the physiological aspect of it, there's stuff you can do. Go and talk to them. (inaudible) are really used to dealing with that.
(chuckle) It's frustrating to me to see her dealing with a problem that's so fixable. And I think, "Oh fix it! Please!" I feel like I'm (pause) grappling with something that is not fixable in the same way and (pause) (crying) and it would help me if she were able to get better. I don't know why. [00:28:42]
(pause) I don't want to (inaudible) constantly [giving and buying some things] (ph) that are (inaudible) related to my own experience. If I could help somebody hurt less that would be really good. But I can't make myself hurt less.
(silence from [00:29:26] to 00:30:19)
I know that's another (pause) advantage of being more functional. (pause) It was really important to me to be in the ER with Kirsten. It was like here is my friend who is in trouble and there is something that I can do to help her and I know what it is and I know that it will help. And it was a really important decision (ph). (pause) (inaudible) This doesn't mean...what I am going through doesn't mean anything else than what I make it. [00:31:37]
THERAPIST: At the risk of being confusing, what do you mean?
CLIENT: (laughter) It's like...I can't think of any reason why I am the one who is hurting this much and I can't figure out why I'm not getting better or why I don't feel like I'm getting better and (pause) (crying) if that pain can be helpful to other people, I want it to be. [I don't want them to feel...] (ph)
THERAPIST: It does. I (pause) think (pause) you may be (pause) kind of (pause) disavowing (pause) some of the ways (pause) you are...that we've seen that you're depression seems to work. What I have in mind is (pause) the way you're (pause) framing it is as though (inaudible) is alright. Your suffering is quite less and in certain respects, meaningless, so if there's any way you can make use of it from your experience with it to help other people or if you can assemble (ph) two things to help other people then at least you can be dealing with something (pause) in a worthwhile, constructive way. [00:35:12]
CLIENT: Yeah, I think so. What?
THERAPIST: Yeah, that's exactly what I was coming to. Yeah, I think we've seen it doesn't physically work like that. For example...
CLIENT: Well it certainly doesn't make anything better for me, but sorry, your example. (chuckle)
THERAPIST: (chuckle) Right, and usually — this has happened a few times now — when you do focus on somebody else's usually genuine and usually considerable suffering, or even to stress, you usually feel worse afterward. I don't mean you don't feel good about having to helpful. I think you do.
CLIENT: Yeah, me supporting Kirsten, I definitely felt a lot worse afterward. [00:36:27]
THERAPIST: Yeah, like you had to sacrifice.
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: And (pause) I guess for you to say something like, "My suffering is meaningless therefore I should sacrifice to help others who can be helped and then bear the cost," that sounds like it does have something to do with the meaning of your suffering (chuckle) to me. [00:37:37]
CLIENT: Yeah. I mean I tried to balance...I try to take care of myself as well. So I really took it easy on Saturday and Sunday and was very nice to myself, very easy on myself. But...
THERAPIST: Which I imagine it was easier to be knowing what you had done and what it had cost you. Again, (pause) not signs and symptoms of random meaningless (pause) suffering. It's not fully explanatory. [00:38:48]
CLIENT: Yeah, like it's just not the...I mean that's just...supporting other people is one of the things that I find difficult that makes things worse for me. But there are so many others and it's not...you know, like it...I don't know .I don't know. Basically in the situation with Kirsten I could either have gone with her to the ER and stayed with her and don't gloat about what I did even though it had pretty negative consequences for me. Or I could have not stayed with her and not supported her and felt badly about that and been really upset with myself. [00:40:01]
I really wouldn't say that the support that I gave to Kirsten was above and beyond my duty. I think it just really is what you do for people.
THERAPIST: I'm not (pause) taking issue with what you did but rather with....
CLIENT: The way I'm sending (ph) it?
THERAPIST: What I think is some extent of disavowal of (pause) what we know about your depression. (pause) Yeah. I'm not saying I think you should have done differently.
CLIENT: No I hear you. I think I see what you're saying.
THERAPIST: But rather that...you kind of like to frame things that way. But like (pause) it already can't be helped so by God there's some good you can do that's going to help you do it and then to deal usually privately with what it cost you afterward. This is a very (pause)...I think like sort of morally traumatical (pause) kind of attitude toward yourself which I do think has something to do with the nature of your depression though I think part of the way it functions is to write that part of it out of the story, if that makes sense. [00:42:31]
CLIENT: Yeah, yeah. I mean, (pause) I haven't been thinking of it this way but I would feel worse if I hadn't done anything. I would not have (inaudible)
THERAPIST: Yeah, and so you're in a pickle there either way. We need to stop for now. (background noise) Take care.
CLIENT: Thank you. [00:43:23]
END TRANSCRIPT
