*TEXT-PV010936  1 October 1973 4272
______________________________________________________________________________
PATIENT:  (Clears throat, 2-minute silence, sigh) Uh, at first I was just thinking about feeling awkward again when coming in, because of uhm, not knowing, you know, where to look; whether to look at you, or to avoid looking at you, and then feeling awkward.  And I don't know, just feeling very stiffened.  Uhm, I feel uncomfortable about it, and uhm, (sigh) I guess then I felt you were responding to my feeling stiff in a — I do—, i, it was a feeling I had that first day when I talked about it, of you appeared and looked welcoming.  And then, by the time I got to you, as if you had changed, and weren't anymore.
And uh, I don't know, uh, th, then I start thinking about all sorts of things over this weekend that I, I certainly didn't feel the same feelings of inadequacy about, that I might have, long time ago.  But I, but they made me feel anxious, or worried, or annoyed, or whatever it, mm, they had different, had different reactions.  And uhm, you know, sort of mixed in with it, I, I, I'm aware of the fact that I've lost, I, I sort of know what we were talking about at the end of last week, but somehow, I, I think I must have gone away with a very particular thing in mind.  Now I remember, it was about the money.
And all I could think this morning, in fact, uhm, when I was on my way to school, a bit late, and FYR last night told me she did not want to do what I had arranged with her, after all, when Friday we'd arranged it.  And then last night, she said she changed her mind, so that, that was kind of a shock, because a lot of what I'd been trying, you know, in looking for somebody I'd been basing it on well, wanting a separate cleaning woman, but particularly liking the way FYR cleans.  So that it made it seem worth it, and (sniff) uhm, I don't know, I was just feeling, thinking about that, and, and just wondering what am I going to do.  And uh, (sigh) you know, feeling sort of anxious, I guess, about getting to school not really late, but not as early as I'd like.
And, and all I could think of was, MSCZ has not yet give me a check that he was supposed to give me last week.  And unless I keep nagging him about it, h, he just doesn't do it.  And this is so typical, and yet if I nag, then he gets annoyed.  And then I get annoyed and stop nagging, and then I'll suddenly blow up, because he hasn't given it to me.  And uhm, I don't know, I w—, I think I was putting all my feelings into the fact he hadn't give me the check.  Mm, this morning when I thought of it, it was as if, now here's something I really can get mad about.  (Sniff, Pause, sniff, Pause, sigh, 2-minute silence)
Oh, I was just thinking f—, at first I guess I was thinking, well ah, this problem over how I finally settled this business of uhm, who's going to take care of FSO and the house, uhm, the parts of it that I want taken care of, it's, you know, I'm letting it really, I mean, every time there's an upset like FYR's deciding not to do it, uhm, you know, it sort of obsesses me, I guess.  And uhm, then that's all I think about.  And I can see where it's here, you know, it, I could use it, then not think about something that's hard to think about, which I think I do.  But z,,,, —
ANALYST:   (Coughs)
PATIENT:  — It just seems to be, I mean, that it gets me into a state, and then I treat everybody in a certain way, well, as if I'm way too busy, and way too weighed down with problems to be thoughtful of anybody.  And I don't know that I've really done anything awful, but uhm, I was thinking particularly I guess of uhm, sometimes how I feel when I get to school, because, I, I, usually I have worries from home on my mind when I get to school, and I'm probably brusque.
And then uhm, I was thinking about on my way to the subway to come here, uhm, FEN was sitting in a little, I don't know what, counter place with FRL, getting something to drink.  And she called, and it was, I was surprised to see them.  I had been looking in just to see what time it was, because I w—, my watch has been wrong, and I was afraid I was late.  And uhm, she said hi, and then I just sort of waved and went on, I didn't say I'm late, I've got to go, or, you know, I didn't sort of react in time.  Because that really wasn't on my mind, that I might be seeing them, I guess.  But I don't know, so that on the other hand, it seems like I've been letting all theses things, or maybe I just am anyway.  I mean, s, so self-centered somehow, that I do that kind of thing.
And uh, oh, but then I was thinking this, I don't know, maybe I'm just thinking of anything, except for h—, things we left off with, on Friday.  Because I was also thinking about Mrs LDJ and, how on Friday, when I spoke to FYR, I also spoke to her, to make sure we understood exactly what we were doing, if we uhm, continued with, if I continued with FYR and Mrs LDJ.  And she expressed some questions at something that we had discussed earlier, and I, I sort of answered them.  But then, since then, I've been thinking, well, I really didn't clarify it enough.  And now that FYR isn't going to be with me, I'm beginning to think that MSCZ's been right all along, and that I just h—, I can't afford to have the luxury of 2 different people, and I have to just try to find somebody who did things as FDO did.  And uhm, you know, now Mrs LDJ, I have always said to her, it depends on what I can arrange, and it may not be permanent.  But she was talking today, as if it is going to be, because we were discussing some things about social security.  And uhm, I don't know, just having this feeling that I'm going to find it very hard to deal with her directly, if I find she's had a misunderstanding.  (Sniff, sigh, 2-minute silence)
Well, uh, uh, I realize I'm just completely avoiding things, because I was just thinking about uhm, the fact that last night we had a lot of trouble getting back into the city.  We'd been up to MSCZ's aunt's and uhm, there'd been a birthday party at the nursing home for his grandmother first, and then we went to his aunt's, another party, and left at a pretty good hour.  But uhm, i, it was partly the choice that we first made.  We'd forgotten about some construction, and uhm, i—, i—, but, and then there was no exit to get off the road, and it was just terrible.  And so we were on that road for about an hour, just going about 10 miles the whole hour.
And uhm, and anyway, then we finally did some other things and got back to the city after that, after we could get off the road, all right.  But, it just made us feel that trip's outside of the city were just not worth it, when we had to get back in.  And I had had some, I still had some things to do on, uhm, we have to write l—, short reports on all the children, at this point.  And uhm, if we'd gotten back as we had thought we would, then everything would have been timed all right, and I would have had time.  But I felt anxious, and I felt anxious about FSO getting to bed, because she's had this hangover of a cold all the time.
Uhm, and so then MSCZ said that we wouldn't be going to PTN next weekend.  That he just didn't think it would be worth it.  And I certainly agreed, then.  But now I'm thinking, well I'd really like to go, and uhm, but is it really worth it, but I don't know. But anyway, it clearly, it's not something to, that I feel I should be thinking about, here.  (Pause)
ANALYST:   So why don't you get to what you feel you should be thinking about?
PATIENT:  Well, I, I was thinking about the last thing that I was, was about the money.  And all I can think is — not that that is necessarily the way I should be th—, doing it — but all I can think is MSCZ hasn't paid me, and I'm angry.  And then I was just, just now, just this minute practically, I was just thinking about the fact that I so often feel that way.  Uhm, feel that, with all the other things that I've already talked about, of MSCZ's and my having difficulty working out how we're handling money in between us, and everything, is this feeling that I have of uhm, I don't know, that, I don't know, that I guess that it's his money, and I have to beg for it.  And uhm, I don't want to beg, so then I get angry, and demand, or I don't know, nag, or some other way, anyway.
But that somehow I feel he puts me in a uhm, well, I don't know what word to use, because inferior position doesn't seem quite right.  But that somehow, MSCZ's doing something on purpose, and, and, by not giving me the check, when he knows perfectly well, because we discuss it.  And I'd say, "Don't forget that I'll need the check tomorrow."  And then, unless I keep nagging him, he, he just never does it.  Of course, it's probably not true to say he never does it, but that it's odd if he does remember then, on his own.
And this week, this past week, on Friday — because he's supposed to give it to me Thursday — on Friday, he said, "Oh, I haven't given you the check yet, have you (sic).  I'll have to do that."  And then that w—, and I said, "Yes, that's right."  And then that was the end of it again.
And I, I don't know, I'm thinking that I know, if I could just make a joke of it, that that would help him remember, and, you know, that would be it.  But that I, I never feel that it's a joke when he keeps on forgetting.  And uhm, (Pause) I don't know, it seems like I, I must be thinking of it in the way of, I don't have to nag for my check for my school, wh, whoever's employing me.  And uhm, you know, that somehow MSCZ should be the same way, because he's in a, I guess that must be it, in a way, that uhm, I've done my work, and I should be paid, or something like that.  (Sniff, Pause)
But I don't know, even, I mean, just talking about, these are feelings I have, but I don't have the feeling that uhm, you know, I, that it's something else.  But I felt much more deeply involved when I was talking about my father's money last week, than in talking about this.  And I just have this feeling all along.  If I felt differently in other ways, then I would be able to, at this point, just make a joke about it, and remind MSCZ, and not be bothered.  And that somehow, these are old feelings that I used to feel much more intensely, and that I'm sort of you know, bringing them back into things now, because it's, it's convenient to.
And I did really feel annoyed this morning, and ready for a fight.  Uhm, (sniff) and I thought of it, and luckily, I was in the subway, so I couldn't fight with, well, at least with MSCZ.  Uhm, but now when I think about it, I don't really, I don't know, just —
ANALYST:   Well, so you're back to then what it is that's keeping you from responding to MSCZ, namely, how are you feeling about me?
PATIENT:  (Silence)
ANALYST:   You began by saying you were again feeling awkward coming in here, looking at me.  Why?
PATIENT:  (Pause) Uhm — (Pause) I don't, I just don't know, because I think of something that uh, I said the first time I felt that way.  But again, I don't think that really is, you know, that's just sort of on the surface, and uhm, but i, it's, you know that there's absolutely nothing else that we're going to say to each other, except for hello.  And uhm, well then I, I'm, I guess what I'm really doing right now is denying that I was glad to see you.  Because uhm, I was just about to say, and if it were anybody else I was glad to see, it would be somebody that I knew well enough, you know, or had a relationship enough so that we would have something to say.  And anything that might make me feel awkward about approaching, with our looking at each other, I could at least talk and cover it up.
And uhm, but since that's not our relationship, this, there's no way to cover up, I guess, is it.  But then, I was just also thinking that today I was sort of feeling the way I often do on Mondays, you know, sort of used to not coming, and having made a readjustment, because I wasn't coming.  And uhm, I mean, I was even thinking w—, e—, again, when I took FSOZ to the park, and then Mrs LDJ met me.  And just with all these problems of who am I going to hire, and everything.  And it's, it's not just because, I mean, if it were just coming here, or just working, it would be so much easier.  But it's a combination, and, and I realize I created the combination.  But in any case, thinking, wouldn't it be nice if I didn't have to keep coming here, because that would simplify things.  And I, I do feel I want to work.  And uhm, you know, so that kind of denies that I'd be glad to see you, then.
But I don't know, because there's something that I want you to be glad to see me.  And then I can choose.  And maybe part of the feeling I was feeling today is, i—, th—, it doesn't even fall into being glad to see you, or not.  But that I didn't, I don't want to, or at least today I was feeling I don't want to feel dependent on seeing you.  Because what's just crossing my mind, is I could be glad to see you, but not need to have it on a regular basis.  And uhm, I don't know, it seems like right now, if I don't see you on a regular basis, I mean, you know, just a week in between, then I can't handle it.  (Sniff, 3-minute silence)
Uhm, well, I, I can't think of the first thing I thought of.  I jumped immediately to things at school.  I think I first thought of, uhm, a girl that's going to start coming next week, but I met her today, who's, she couldn't be very retarded, but she's in a program somebody has, actually I think, down here.  Uhm, using people that are retarded, who are trainable, uhm, and getting them into early childhood jobs.
And uhm, I don't know what I was thinking about, or, I guess I was thinking what would she be called, and could we give her a choice.  Or should we just decide and tell her she'll be called this by the children.  I mean, I just, in talking to her, it was so brief, I couldn't really tell how her mind works, or you know what she can make decisions on, and so forth.  And uhm, and then just thinking about some things she could do to help.  And then some things I might do that I've never been able to do when it's just been FLMZ and me.  And then, wondering if I can really do it, because there's some things that involve a freer approach to learning activities, that I, I find I'm still uncomfortable.  You know, either I want everybody doing or, then I don't do it.
And uhm, I saw another teacher doing something today, it was, you know, kind of a variety of things.  Working with letters, and, I don't really know exactly how she was doing it, I just actually saw some things on paper that the children had done.  And uhm, it was just, I was thinking well, I don't really, I don't know whether she took their lead, or if she gave them a lead.  But I don't do much unless they give me a lead, unless I do something for, as a group activity.  And uhm, I've often felt it's a weakness.  So then I'm thinking, well, here's some place where I'm not adequate.
And uhm, oh, I know, and then I thought of a new music teacher that we're trying.  And I was told, I thought her name was FJW, and I was told she pronounces it a bit differently, like FWS, or something like that.  And when I asked her what her name was, she said FJW.  I guess she'd given up on how to pronounce it.  But then, she told FLMZ the other way.  And at this point, I can't even remember, but you know, sort of feeling, well if I really were competent, I'd remember, and be able to call her by her correct name.  And uhm, or that, I just wasn't concerned enough.  (Sniff, Pause)
ANALYST:   Last week, you know you were talking, remembering how you have really kept your father's money intact, untouched, unlooked at.  You've avoided it in all kinds of ways.  And now, really, what you're doing about your fantasies about me, is exactly the same sort of thing.  By avoiding them, by staying away from them, by not confronting them, by not really facing what you really feel about me — now it's interfering with you and MSCZ — you are keeping your fantasies intact, just as you keep that money intact.  So, what you're really accomplishing here is preserving your fantasies, by avoiding them.  You're really holding onto me in your fantasies uh, in this way.
PATIENT:  Uhm, well, I was just thinking of something that I, I hadn't thought of, until just now.  That I, that suddenly came into my mind when I was leaving, you know, coming up the stairs from the subway.  And I don't know, since I sometimes think that way, I was just thinking, we—, there I go thinking that way again.  But I guess it's really, it's, it's the only proof that I feel I can, you know, have, by what I'm allowing myself to think today, that I do have fantasies.  Because I keep thinking, well, you know, I didn't have any fantasy when I saw you.  I just felt awkward, and yet, uhm, and then I think of this thing.
I think today it was, as co—, as I was coming up the stairs I was thinking, what if somebody came up behind me, and had a knife, and you know, were going to mug me or something.  In fact, that might have been on my mind, probably because MSCZ thought he was almost mugged last night.  And uh, I mean, the situation was there, and then there were 3 guys, and 2 were indecisive, and MSCZ got out of their range before they had made up their mind.  But one guy had stepped toward him, as if they were going to do something.  And uhm, so it may have been on my mind.
But you know, I was thinking, I g—, I could be mugged, somebody could come up behind me, and I wouldn't notice.  Oh, some man had been looking at me on the subway right before I got off, too, in a very intent way.  And uhm, that he would use his knife by plunging it into my rear end.  And so, you know, that's sort of like a variation on what happened when I had the accident.
ANALYST:   Well, and here I sit behind you.
PATIENT:  Yeah.
ANALYST:   And you're thinking of me plunging something in you, in this indirect way.
PATIENT:  (Sniff, 2-minute silence) Well, I'm really avoiding that again, because immediately I started thinking, well I remember last week I could think about fantasizing your plunging something into me, or attacking me, I guess I was thinking of it.  Or, what would I do, or something like that, directly.  And you know, that today, I just can't.  Uhm, because again, it's like, well yes, that's an association, but that, you know, it's, I don't know, I, and then I'm also thinking, well why can't I think it directly today, like I could the other day.  And, and then I start thinking about a woman that I'd heard about, Mrs BBF was telling me about today, who was looking for more work, you know, as a potential cleaning woman.  And I'll hear about the CHN girl a little bit more tonight, and I don't know, just anyway, getting back into this other thing that can occupy my mind.
I don't, I wonder if part of this, because, I'm beginning to think — as MSCZ said to me at some point — that i, it all sounded too complicated to him, and if, — I suppose part of it was that Mrs LDJ has been a great help, and I just don't know what I would have done without her, because i—, maybe if I hadn't had her I would have decided immediately I had to do, you know, find somebody like FDO.  But uhm, anyway, as a result, I've worked up all these complex affairs that involves all sort of, how's the money all going to work out in the end.  And uhm, you know, because in my mind I, I have start to thinking, I have $80 to spend, and it could go different ways.  And then room and board, because that was essentially what we'd be giving to FDO, or spending, because we would have done social security.
And uhm, w—, mm, I'm just wondering, because right now, I think after FYR quit, I had this feeling, it's all getting too complex, and I want it to be much simpler.  And uhm, and then just now, when I was thinking of the cleaning woman, I was mainly just thinking how much would she want, and how much could I spend, and what should I have been, say I could pay the CHN girl, if she would work out.  And uhm, I don't know, it's just, all this money that I'm not really, I don't know, sort of imagining handling it, I guess.  Sniff, Clears throat, 3-minute silence, sigh)
Well, it seems like I'm just repeating a pattern too, in my thinking.  Because now I'm thinking about a boy that uhm, I had some problems with today, I haven't really had problems with before.  I mean, he's always been obedient, put it that way, and this is where I consider then I have the problem, if they become disobedient.  And today he clearly was being disobedient, and uhm, I don't know if I know quite why, but in any case, uhm, I know he's found some of the aspects of the program a bit difficult, because he's more, i—, more immature than a lot of the kids.  But uhm, he's never really been clearly disobedient, like today.  And, and then I was thinking about how I was very heavy handed —
ANALYST:   (Interrupting) Is this the way you feel?  You're being disobedient, right now to me?
PATIENT:  Yeah, I guess I probably do.
ANALYST:   You're not thinking about what I've told you to think about?
PATIENT:  (Pause) I don't know, it's not quite as, I, I think I used to feel, you know, just more clearly disobedient than I do, I mean, it still is, I feel it.  But I, I don't know, because I also have this feeling I know for myself it would be better for me to be thinking about it, because then I'll get closer to solving the problem that I feel I have to solve.  And uhm, I don't know, so it's sort of a, I guess I kind of have this feeling you have suggested something to me that, for me to think about.  I don't know if I quite feel you've told me to, but on the other hand, I guess I feel you could be thinking to yourself, well here she goes again, when I don't.  Which I, which would, you know, then be, you know, somehow, I'm not doing what you want.  Does seem to work out that way.  (Silence)
ANALYST:   (Coughs) Uh, I'll be canceling your appointment this Friday.  And our time's up.
PATIENT:  Could I just ask, is Monday a holiday?  Because, it is for me, but I don't —
ANALYST:   Not that I know of.  I'll tell you tomorrow if it is.
PATIENT:  OK. 
??
