



[p. <i>507</i>]
<font size="5"><b>First Person Account: Falling on the Pavement</b></font>

<b><i>by Thomas Campbell</i></b>


<b>The article that follows is part of the <i>Schizophrenia
Bulletin</i>'s ongoing <i>First Person Account</i> series. We
hope that mental health professionals—the <i>Bulletin</i>'s
primary audience—will take this opportunity to learn
about the issues and difficulties confronted by consumers
of mental health care. In addition, we hope
that these accounts will give patients and families a
better sense of not being alone in confronting the problems
that can be anticipated by persons with serious
emotional difficulties. We welcome other contributions
from patients, ex-patients, or family members. Our
major editorial requirement is that such contributions
be clearly written and organized, and that a novel or
unique aspect of schizophrenia be described, with special
emphasis on points that will be important for professionals.
Clinicians who see articulate patients with
experiences they believe should be shared might
encourage these patients to submit their articles to
<i>Schizophrenia Bulletin</i>, First Person Accounts, EEI
Communications, 66 Canal Center Plaza, Suite 200,
Alexandria, VA 22314.—<i>The Editors</i>.</b>


I've been diagnosed as having paranoid schizophrenia. I
also suffer from clinical depression. Before I found the
correct medications, I was sleeping on the floor, afraid to
sleep in my own bed. I was hearing voices that, lately, had
turned from being sometimes helpful to being terrorizing.
The depression had been responsible for my being irritable
and full of dread, especially in the mornings, becoming
angry over frustrations at work, and seemingly internalizing
others' problems.


Although looking back at my life, I remember episodes
where I was hearing voices, probably, I remember distinctly,
in the mid-1980s I began hearing them in earnest. I was in
my mid-thirties. It was at my job at that time. I was walking
through a courtyard around which the various offices were
arranged, and a blanket seemed to have lifted from the area
above my head. I remember a female voice saying, "If you
do, he'll go ccrraazzyy."


Notwithstanding being diagnosed as paranoid, I still
think I feel other people's stress. That workplace was
soon to be nonexistent. The company had been bought,
and in 2 or 3 years the 1987 recession was to hit. At first
they would lay off half the staff, me among them, and
later they would close that division completely. I can't
help but wonder if the communal stress acted upon me.


I secured another job, my present one, within a few
weeks of the layoff. I functioned fairly well for the first
several years, but in the early 1990s, around the time of
the Gulf War, my depressed state caused personality conflicts
with student help and with a few coworkers. Later, I
would be yelling and screaming when alone in my office
because—I would discover after being treated with an
antidepressant—of depression. I didn't know depression
manifested itself in that way. (No one said anything during
these bouts of yelling, strangely enough, even though
I'm certain I was heard many times.)


My breaking point came at work when my supervisor
hired someone who, because of her own psychological
problems, was very dominant whenever she entered my
office. For example, she wouldn't ask politely for supplies
but would demand them in an arrogant manner. Our personality
conflict escalated to name-calling, and I hated
going to work. Finally, we both got called in, separately,
for a meeting with our supervisor and the president of that
branch of the company. I wasn't faced with a lot of accusations.
Others had had problems with this coworker, too.
But the name-calling prompted the president to suggest
counseling. I had seen a therapist a few years prior to this
and thought it a good idea. The coworker quit 3 or 4
months later. I can't help but wonder if her behavior was
caused by her unconsciously foreseeing the end of her
job.


The first therapist I saw told me after a few sessions
that she couldn't help me and suggested a psychiatrist. At
the time, my work performance, especially my typing,

[p. <i>508</i>]

<a href="javascript: __showhidenote('_note_5503');">[note]</a><div id="_note_5503" style="display:none;background-color:#FFDD99;margin:0px;border:2px solid #800000; padding:2px;">Send reprint requests to NIMH, <i>Schizophrenia Bulletin</i>, 6001
Executive Blvd., Rm. 8184, MSC 9663, Bethesda, MD 20892-9663.</div>


I hated the risperidone. (My present psychiatrist told
me that many people take 6-8 mg of risperidone without
blinking and get excellent results from it.) I thought it was
like animal tranquilizer as the dosage increased to 3 mg. It
was making me anxious in the mornings and, at the same
time, very lethargic when I tried to get out of bed. I kept
describing to my psychiatrist that it made me feel like the
end of the world upon awakening. On my own, I tried to get
off the drug and just take diazepam, which the doctor had
prescribed for, weekends. This didn't work, and I went back
unhappily to risperidone.


I finally had an episode, at home, not work, that I
couldn't get out of and one that was making me too miserable.
This was several months after a front-page automatic
weapons robbery in North Hollywood, near my residence,
and during a change in my supervisors. My paranoia
made me think I was somehow tied to the first, and real
stress came from the change of supervisors. The voices,
human sounding, and sounding from a short distance outside
my apartment, were slowly turning nearly all bad. I
could hear them jeering me, plotting against me, singing
songs sometimes that would only make sense later in the
day when I would do something wrong at work or at
home. I began sleeping on the floor of my living room
because I was afraid a presence in the bedroom was torturing
good forces around me. If I slept in the bedroom,
the nightly torture would cause me to make mistakes during
the day. A voice, calling himself Fatty Acid, stopped
me from drinking soda. Another voice allowed me only
one piece of bread with my meals. These two voices
called themselves "professionals." I was forced to stop
smoking, too. If I smoked, I would hit a pedestrian with
my car. (Later that changed to causing someone else to hit
a pedestrian.) My isolated existence, having no friends to
visit and living alone in my apartment, made these restrictions
worse. Small pleasures were all I had. I began to
spend weekends sitting on the couch all day.


I thought of suicide a lot. Dread of going to work or
doing anything outside of the apartment was insurmountable,
though in spite of it, I kept going to work. Outside of
the apartment, when I went to work or ran necessary
errands, people would seem to mentally attack me.
Something would spring from them to me and stay with
me for hours, causing me mental anguish. It felt like a
presence from my attackers bullied its way inside my
head, tormenting areas in there. My psychiatrist had only
one answer: increase the dosage of risperidone. I told her
I couldn't. I couldn't keep living like this. The days were
unimaginably dreary, weekdays and weekends. I was
filled with dread every day.


I confided in two neighbors. One suggested seeing a
psychopharmacologist he knew, and the other suggested
seeing his therapist. I did both. I was fortunate to have
those neighbors.


The new psychiatrist kept me on risperidone but
changed me from taking it in the mornings to taking it in
the evenings. I was falling asleep at the wheel of my car
during my morning commute, and he felt this would help
me stay awake. He hoped, much to my dismay, to raise
the dosage of risperidone to a therapeutic level of 4-6 mg.
Taking the medication in the evenings helped slightly, but
I was still anxious in the mornings and kept hitting myself
at work over frustrations.


My therapist suggested an antidepressant. I finally
asked my psychiatrist to prescribe one. (He seemed reluctant
to prescribe anything other than risperidone.) He
started me on sertraline, and the change was almost immediate.
At the time, I was so miserable I was considering
going out on disability. I actually talked to the human
resources director about it and was ready to go. However,
at the urging of a new president, who warned me that it
was a mistake to give up my job, that I would have to start
all over again, and that the 2 months of disability pay the
company would arrange would go very quickly and my
circumstances would turn dire, I kept working. With the
sertraline, my mornings changed. The dread and the end-
of-the-world feelings lessened quite a lot.


Sleeping on the floor and the other restrictions continued.
The bad voices continued. I felt hopeless about
them. This would continue from now on. My neighbors
and my doctor and therapist kept insisting that it would
get better. Finally, it did.


Although the bad voices warned me and threatened
me, I went for a trip over Christmas to visit my friends in
Northern California. (Shortly before I went, a pedestrian
was killed in an accident outside this friend's workplace.)
Upon my return from that trip, I found the strength to
drink soda, smoke, and sleep in my bed. I can only surmise
that the change of scene, coupled with an impending
drug change, produced this improvement.


At the time, I was getting ready to switch medications
from risperidone to olanzapine, another antipsychotic.
My psychiatrist had worked me up to the therapeutic

[p. <i>509</i>]

My life at present is better, but I'm not completely
well. I still eat only one piece of bread with my meals. I
drink only one can of Coke per day. And I've gained
unwanted weight. But I am smoking and drinking coffee,
which also was denied me during this episode, and sleeping
in my own bed. I have bad days, both at work and at
home. Still, the frustrations aren't as bad. And what I call
the attacks from other people remain, though the number
of them have decreased, and they go away more quickly.
I've been on olanzapine for about 2 months.


I'm hoping that I recover more than this, and I think I
will. It is hard realizing that I probably will have to continue
taking medications for the rest of my life, but the
misery without them is terrible.

