Transcript of Audio File:
______________________________________________________________________________
BEGIN TRANSCRIPT:
CLIENT: So I made a list of things that were bothering me.
THERAPIST: Alright.
CLIENT: And this is because we were talking, we ended last time, well talking about some other reasons why I kind of might go into like panic zone of like do it now and you know like go from you know, zero to sixty. But it like it just sprang from the whole talking about issues that I have in my relationship. And so here's what happened since Friday okay.
First of all, we had a big argument on Friday night when we got home 'cause he brought up some issue that he heard about, about them taking out the right to bear arms like from the what is it? Constitution?
THERAPIST: Constitution
CLIENT: Constitution or something like that and how, whatever. And like I said something kind of ignorant like, "Yah". And he was like, "That's horrible, like you can't take something of the Constitution". I was "Okay fine. Not Yah, but like I mean, I like whatever. Like I don't have, I don't ever, I'm not going to ever have a gun in my house." So we get in this huge argument about him really feeling strongly about having a gun to protect his family. And I was like, I just, I just don't you know.
And then we got into stupid logistics about but it's going to be in the safe it's going to have a lock, da da da and all this stuff. So then I was like "It doesn't matter like" and he was like, "Educate yourself about gun laws and educate yourself about this and statistics about people getting robbed and how many people get killed when they're robbed." Like I mean all this stupid crap.
But I was like "that doesn't change the fact that like my, I have a conviction that I will never have a gun in my home. Like I'm like, and so it was this big issue that we like just had to stop talking about because we were going to get nowhere and it was like, you know, we cross that bridge when we get there eventually or like this is one of the reasons that we can't be together.
So there was that and that was really upsetting because like why do we need a gun like, (inaudible) [00:01:52] doing with his upbringing, and fine. But like I've never been broken into or wait, like we have but like a while ago like somebody had took some money from my mom like, like her purse or something. I mean, anyway. So there was that. Then I realized that like I really am starting to feel a hatred for his family which is not like something that I'm enjoying but like they're just all so freaking lazy and they don't do anything and they just all this clan mentality and it just - .<br />
We went over there for a little while on Saturday because I mentioned that he, he, or on Sunday we ended up going 'cause he was so guilty that his mom like texted him like "oh I miss you" and made him feel guilty and (inaudible) feel guilty but we can go over there (inaudible). And his family's just always sitting around like in their pajamas like doing nothing. Like the baby's doing well and he is nice and chunky and she's doing a good job like whatever and I guess she got accepted to some program, some housing program. Anyway, so she's going to be getting an apartment, you know, whatever, fine.
But so then that was bothering me. And then like there's just all these little things I guess. I wrote them down because I was like really frustrated earlier today when we were talking. He, we, he, the other thing is he, he, we had an argument about driving the other night, I guess last night. Because like he has a tendency of like telling me "Oh, oh don't go in that lane. Like just speed up and then go, and then go in front or whatever." And then we ended up getting in an argument because I was like "I can't switch lanes. I have to, I'm going to miss the exit." And he says "No, just speed up." And then I got distracted by a light and it's like he's telling me what to do when I'm the one that's driving and I need to see what's in my blind like spot and I couldn't and so then we ended up missing the exit.
And like that, okay. He was right that I really didn't filter my reaction and I like went berserk and was like, I was like, "What the fuck like why are you telling me I'm driving, you're overwhelming me, like you're getting me all panicked" when that didn't need to be my reaction.
But it was just the bigger issue of him always, like I do what he tells me when he, when I'm driving because then afterwards if I don't it's like "Oh", and it's like "Ooops, see told you, you should have gone in that lane" like and it's really freaking annoying, you know.
Granted I do like some of the same stuff with him. It just kind of blew up and we made a decision not to tell each other what to do when driving anymore because it's just easier that way to just let the other person and shut your, shut your mouth. If the other person gets stuck in a lot of traffic and is waiting for a merging (inaudible) [00:04:19], good, then fine, so be it. But just shut up.
THERAPIST: Right.
CLIENT: Uh, then this morning he said, "Hey Maggie, I was, like oh let's play hooky. Like let's play hooky and just, you know like whatever, relax." And I was like "Ooh, that would be nice. Too bad that's not reality, whatever." Like I was just kind of like trying to be a little bit sensitive like not trying to like make him feel bad for saying that but was just kind of like joking around with it. But then he says to me, "I'm kind of sad that you didn't want to play hooky with me today." And I was like, "Well, I mean, I'm sorry. Like I know you hate your job and I know this is really hard right now, but like we just can't afford it."
And I guess it just kind of made me annoyed that he like would even get sad about that. Because it's like why, do you really think this is something I would be like, "Yeah, let's play hooky." Like it's not fun when it's costing me $100. Like us. It's not fun like, "Ohhhh, a sick day when we're not really sick except this is costing us money. So when you're really sick like you have to work like it doesn't, you know."
And so then we got into this, then we got (inaudible) [00:05:23] into it because I was, I got to work and I, messaged him on G-chat and was just like "I'm really sick of fighting like this, you know. I really don't want to have these arguments anymore. I know you're not happy in your job but like you can't—"
So it turned into a really good conversation. So all this stuff I like kind of wrote down like before we talked. He brings up in our conversation the idea of maybe we should separate and not break up, but he finds a really cheap room someplace so that he can concentrate on figuring out what's going to make him happy even if he has to get a lower paying job because (inaudible) [00:05:55] and I can move in with my mom and like he (inaudible) [00:05:57] this whole thing that really upset me because like "A", like it's not that simple, and "B" like I can't even move back with my mom. Like that's not even an option for me. Like—
THERAPIST: Yeah.
CLIENT: - she works from home now, and like Michael just moved out like two days ago, found him a room and an apartment like it's just not an option for me anymore. So for him to say that was just kind of like either we're going to like separate everything and like separate our accounts and everything or we're going to figure out like what to do.
And then he apologized for coming up with that idea. He said he was just kind of panicking because he's miserable on this job. And to be honest I think that it's causing a lot of the issues that we're having lately because his depression by being in this place that he hates and he hates the people and he hates the job and he hates the work and they don't treat him that well and blah, blah, blah is just really leaking into every other facet of our lives; of his life and of our lives together.
And it's making it so that, you know, he can't just turn off and he's constantly like that night that we were at my friend's and he was just constantly venting, you know. And I said to him, "You know what Franklin? Then what it comes down to is, and he's like that's why he's not in school because of this job and he feels like he can't (inaudible) [00:07:05] and when he gets home he just wants to relax or like smoke a joint or you know, (inaudible) whatever.
THERAPIST: Yeah.
CLIENT: And I said to him, "You know, then fine. When it comes down to it like no, I'm not going to say quit your job so you can figure out what you really want to do in life because that's not realistic and we have bills." And I said, "But you really need to make a decision on if you want to pursue this career right now until you're finished with school and, you know, deciding what you really want to do long-term or you need to switch because this is not working for us and you're not finding another customer service job and it's just, it's really, and it's starting to make me feel unhappy and make me feel guilty for having a job that I enjoy" you know." And to which he said, "Like please, I, I, you know, I really am sorry if you feel that. I really don't want you to feel that." I was like, "You're so positive. It's not your fault. It's just kind of like residual. You know like I just am kind of, you know, feeling all these effects of your being depressed essentially."
THERAPIST: Yeah.
CLIENT: And you know, we talked about him not making as big of a deal as I thought he should have out of my trip to Seattle and you know, how he, -
THERAPIST: Right.
CLIENT: - he did point out that we did talk about it for a longer time than I made it out in my head because I was wanting, I made this thing up in my head where it was "Congratulations! Let's celebrate!" you know, and I didn't get that. So then anything else just kind of went by the wayside. So he did remind me of that which I think was fair.
But so I kind of ran all this stuff down that was pissing me off and then like kind of looking at it, looking back on it and I'm kind of like well, we're having all these stupid fights and he's having all these issues with what he wants to do and blah, blah, blah because he's so unhappy. So he made the decision to get recertified as an instructor and pursue that as how he'd like to make his living for the next little while while he figures out what he wants to do for school and all that.
And I said, "Sounds great. Like honestly, whatever is going to make you happiest at this point and we'll figure the rest out, you know."
THERAPIST: Right.
CLIENT: Because he was looking at jobs that, because that's another way also he could involve his enjoyment of drama you know. You get a group director and do like plays, I don't know. You know, whatever.
Like so that was the conclusion to that conversation and the other conclusion was that we, that I needed to, that I need to figure out a way to be less, to channel my anxiety and worry like overall that I carry like on a daily basis into what he's doing and how things are going and how is school and what's happening with this and what's the update on that and what's happening with that and constantly nagging him and just check in.
"How's the studying going? Good? That's great?" Because honestly, it's just stressing him out and making him like kind of avoid doing these things because he's just, I'm constantly talking about them, stressing me out because then I'm worried that he's not doing it. And we also, on Saturday he spent a lot of time in his office with a couple of his drama club members kind of talking about some upcoming events and how to reformat the website to get better, you know, better turn out and things like that. And I was doing a whole bunch of errands throughout the day and so I was like kind of in and out of the house running around. And then I got home and was just, I was really enjoying myself, watching awful TV like on the couch with the cat like, and it was great and I feel like we don't have enough of that where he's doing his thing, I'm doing my thing and we're not doing it together -
THERAPIST: Um hmm.
CLIENT: - you know. Even if it is just me sitting on the couch like watching TV.
THERAPIST: Right.
CLIENT: And so that's another thing we talked about that, you know, with me you know, thinking about a new path in terms of the school and all that, that we need to make an effort to really spend more time doing our own thing.
So, I mean it was good. Obviously the hating his family is not going to get resolved by him getting another job. Like that's something that I have to kind of really just—
THERAPIST: Right.
CLIENT: - think about it and, you know, work out because I just, I just can't, it's just, I wasn't making, it wasn't a really a big deal to me because like I love Franklin and it's not a big deal, whatever. His family's his family and my family's my family, blah. Everybody has problems, you know.
But I guess just going over there and like they're all just so freaking lazy like, I was just was like oh, like I just can't, I don't know, like I don't have any respect for them and this was not the way that I want to feel about people who are potentially going to be in my life or could, you know, forever, whatever and will be related to possible children and, and I'm not really sure like what to do with those feelings.
Because if I, Franklin can, you know, listen to me kind of, you know, voice my opinions about behavior of some people in his family to a certain point, and at a certain point he, I mean, automatically just starts getting defensive, just purely based on the fact that it is his family.
So regardless of his opinions of them, somebody else saying them you know, after it, you know, going over a certain line you know makes him feel defensive and kind of going into defense mode and say well, you know, what about this in your family you know, and—
THERAPIST: Right.
CLIENT: And I'm not really stressing about it too much, but it's just something that I kind of realized this weekend like, "god, I really have very little respect for any of you people like except maybe the children 'cause like poor them like, they have to have idiotic parents, you know.
And uh, so I'm not, this is something that I have to kind of, I guess, think about it and work it and maybe I'll start feeling it less, you know, if Franklin and I are starting to be in a big, better place I just think that having all of these issues happen in the last couple of months and me and Franklin arguing so much and him being depressed and all that stuff maybe is just, maybe it's just bringing my distaste for their life choices and kind of personalities to the forefront.
THERAPIST: Uh, like I wonder to an extent like (inaudible) [00:13:12] they're completely the opposite I think of how you want to be.
CLIENT: Um hmm.
THERAPIST: Like if you're interested in like staying on top of things, doing your shit together, working on yourself, and are like both really focused on that and I think sometimes like kind of anxious about not doing that.
CLIENT: Um hmm.
THERAPIST: Probably couldn't get further from that.
CLIENT: Exactly. Yeah and for sure that bothers me. Like it's just completely like, and opposite of my mom, like, and how she is, you know. Like Sunday and you're sitting in bed in pajamas still at like god, like 3:30? And people are like bringing you like food and just bringing you everything. Your kids are just bringing you stuff. You're just sitting there, everybody's just sitting there, like, my, that would never happen, like maybe Mother's day when we made her stay in bed cooked breakfast for her. But like that was never the case. Ever. Even when she was drinking, you know.
And yes, so, so it definitely strikes a chord even more so because it's just completely opposite of where I've been, where I'm going, where I want to be, what I want for my children. I mean, you know, if I do get, things do work out with Franklin, you know like great. But I don't necessarily feel like I'm going to want to expose my children to that too much, you know.
And I mean like sucks for them, I guess, that they're not going to have as much of another family on that side but I would rather have them just like hang out with us more than like be around that kind of crap. Like I would never feel comfortable leaving my kid there for child care. Like not only because of just like whatever, history and safety and whatever, but because like I don't want my kid to be like in a lazy, like smelly house (laughing). And so, anyway, I mean that's like I said. It's not, this is not like my biggest issue right now, obviously. It's just something that I noticed this weekend that kind of just made me feel a little upset because I hadn't really thought about it like that.
THERAPIST: Yeah.
CLIENT: I would just kind of think about it (inaudible) [00:15:21] I don't choose to do that, we don't see them that much. Maybe if I hadn't seen them in a while that brought that to the forefront. You know I'm like sitting there holding Baby Lucas, and like he's so cute and he's doing really well and I'm really happy about that, but I like was looking down at him like "Oh, I'm sorry your mom's an idiot, you know. Like I'm sorry your mom's an idiot and your dad's 18 and they're not together, life sucks."
THERAPIST: Yep.
CLIENT: And the thing that I think made me even more sad about it is like that kid will never know like really that his mom is like that much of an idiot and because it's going to be his mom and dad and he's going to love them and it's just going to be that kind of a thing. I mean maybe when they're older.
THERAPIST: Right.
CLIENT: But not like in their childhood. I don't know. And it's none of my business. It's not like my problem. But it is kind of like if I'm going to stay involved with this family.
THERAPIST: And it really bothers you.
CLIENT: And it really bothers me, their way of life. Like it just really bothers me. And then I went out to breakfast on Saturday with the whatever, ex-girlfriend baby's mother of his oldest brother—
THERAPIST: Um hmm.
CLIENT: - this girl Lori who really just got involved with him. I guess she was like going out with some meds, I don't know if I had mentioned this to you before, and like wasn't real upset that she wasn't in her right mind, got pregnant, super Christian like right wing family. Anyway, and then she said something that made me so freaking irritated when we went out to breakfast. It was nice to see her baby and her baby loves me and whatever. But she's so stressed out all the time because she's always worried about this Joshua, Franklin's brother, who's like living with his ex-wife that he married for the green card, but they're not really together—
THERAPIST: Right.
CLIENT: - pays her rent, buys her shoes, I don't know what the hell's going on over there but I don't really care. And I said to Lori that first of all, I guess she heard that this woman is pregnant by her boyfriend and that upsets her because now she's afraid Joshua's going to give her more money, whatever. And she said pregnant, is pregnant or was pregnant. I can't tell you who told me but—
And I was like wait, what do you mean is pregnant or was pregnant? She said, "Well, Joshua told me that she had an abortion when they were together and I heard that after you've had an abortion you, your fertility rates drop tremendously and you can have miscarriages if you do get pregnant." I was like "Lori, that is the biggest load of shit I've ever heard in my entire life. She's like, "Oh really?" This woman is a teacher. Like—
THERAPIST: Oh really?
CLIENT: Yeah. I was like, "Lori, like that's the dumbest shit I've ever heard. She's like, "Well maybe it came from my parents." I'm like, "Probably, like I've known people that have had multiple abortions and multiple pregnancies" like which is sad but true.
THERAPIST: Right.
CLIENT: Anyway so that kind of pissed me off to begin with.
THERAPIST: Yeah.
CLIENT: Then she's talking about Joshua and his money—
THERAPIST: That's some pro-life bullshit.
CLIENT: Right. It's the stupid pro-life, and I'm really sorry. But, "Oh, I'm Christian".
THERAPIST: You (inaudible) said that to her? (Laughing)
CLIENT: (inaudible). Like "Oh, I'm Christian. I can't have an abortion because I'm Christian." But you're having sex out of wedlock? Like you already did one bad thing. You may as well do the other bad thing. Anyway, okay. And anyway, and so she's talking about Joshua and his money and I said, "You know, to be perfectly honest Lori, like I just think that you have other things that you need to worry about and it's really none of your business what he does with the money, so with his money."
She writes me an e-mail later saying, you know, I'm sorry to keep venting. I've been really stressed out and I'm usually not (inaudible) blah, blah, blah. But I, I disagree. A couple of my other friends have told me this. I disagree. I think it is my business because he's not giving me child support and he's not doing this and he's not doing that. And I wrote her back an e-mail and I said I'm not going to offend you but you know, you made a choice to have this child with this man who you knew was irresponsible, you know not loving. He lived with this woman, all of this stuff that you knew.
So really, unless you're going to take him to court for child support, it is none of your business. You can't sit there and be like "Well he told me he was going to bring diapers." Get in the ring if you really want it to be your business. Otherwise leave the city or leave the state or leave the country or whatever because Kia needs a healthy mom and really that's not what she's getting now. So then she didn't e-mail me back and I'm sure that it did offend her but she's always e-mailing me and stressing about this and that and the other. And I kind of like just finally be like deal with it or move on and like have your kids, like whatever you know. If you have no regrets, then have no regrets.
So this probably also triggered my feeling of hatred towards them when I saw them the following day as well—
THERAPIST: Right, right.
CLIENT: - it's because of this whole, you know, (inaudible) [00:19:49] with the whole craziness. I am glad that Franklin and I had this talk today. It really did, you know, I was able to put things in the eye [ph], I told him that it upset me about the, you know, driving thing and that, you know, I don't want to feel like if I don't do what he thinks I should do that he's going to—
THERAPIST: Right.
CLIENT: - think that I am an idiot or whatever. I apologized for not filtering my, you know, reactions more because that is an issue that I've had forever and you know, it is a problem. Like I can react but I just, I overreact.
THERAPIST: Um hmm.
CLIENT: You know. Uh yeah. And you know, I hope that, I hope that kind of him making the decision to say okay, I'm going to do something. I said, you know and it cost $400 which obviously is an expense but I say you know, use your tax money for it when you get your taxes. Be like, whatever, you know. Just do it like. Because he's so unhappy at this job and I'm hoping that I'll even start to see a change in this week. I don't know, it may be wishful thinking but hopefully that, you know, just kind of him making the decision is going to help him to feel better because I really think honestly this is a lot of the reason why I'm just kind of not, I didn't really notice it but I was, but he kind of pointed it out you know the reason that he is not happy is kind of the reason that things are bothering me more and I'm getting more irritable about things and more things are making me anxious. And I kind of sat back and looked at it when he kind of pointed it out—
(CROSSTALK)
THERAPIST: Talking about that it might be his job?
CLIENT: Yeah, just him being unhappy. Him being unhappy in his job, therefore unhappy in his life, therefore not knowing where he's supposed to be and, you know, bringing it home with him and being depressed and not waking up early in the morning when I'm waking up early and doing my exercises and whatever, you know. I mean it's hard.
Like he wanted to wake up early today and, you know, I was up super early. I was doing Zumba and I was doing dishes and I was folding laundry and so I had all this stuff that I wanted to do before work. And he said, "Okay, wake me up" and "Can you wake me up in 7 minutes. I want 7 minutes more." I said okay, fine. I went in 7 minutes later, I'm like alright, you know. But then like 15 minutes later he was still in bed and I know it's because he was just dreading—
THERAPIST: That's it.
CLIENT: - getting out of bed to go to work.
THERAPIST: Yeah.
CLIENT: You know even the weekends it's like dreading Monday, you know, because he has to go back. So he can't even really fully enjoy the weekend. And I do think it has a lot to do with why I've been feeling more anxious myself and I mean [ph] there's other aspects as well in terms of my life but I think it's been leading to more anxiety surrounding our relationship, surrounding him, what he's doing. I don't know. I mean maybe not but I think so. I just want him to be happy.
THERAPIST: Sure. What is it like feeling down like that?
CLIENT: It's hard for me because I feel like I have to be like super cheery, super upbeat, like "Oh, you don't want to watch that? Oh, let's find something else to—" like everything has to be like super, like extra because I know that he's down and I'm trying to make him feel better. But it doesn't work. He still is cranky or looking depressed or whatever. And then I feel frustrated. And I feel like, then it kind of puts me in a bad mood.
And I think that when he's consistently, you know, like this even if it's sometimes in spurts, you know, it just again, it just, it makes me feel unsatisfactory, I guess, like as a girlfriend, as a partner, as a friend because it makes me feel like my efforts to try to help, to try to make him look at things positively, to try and encourage him that things will get better is like for nothing. That's what it makes me feel like. And that sucks. So I, you know, so I'm hope that—
THERAPIST: So you feel, uh sort of helpless.
CLIENT: Yeah, exactly.
THERAPIST: And inadequate.
CLIENT: Exactly. Exactly. And you know, like I have to find other ways to try to help him feel better or, you know, whatever. Do you think is that like a weird reaction do you think? Like is that, I don't know, like, like I don't know how else I would feel, you know, if I'm sitting there trying to help him and it's like hitting a brick wall every time.
THERAPIST: Well (clearing throat) I have no idea, but I imagine he wouldn't say it that it's useless or that it doesn't help him at all—
CLIENT: No.
THERAPIST: - or that he thinks you should really be different, you're trying to make him feel better.
CLIENT: (inaudible) [00:25:03].
THERAPIST: And also I don't think that generally like being upbeat or redirecting somebody or sort of being cheerful, I mean it helps and I would imagine he would say so but I don't think that's going to make him not be depressed anymore. He's (inaudible) [00:25:31].
CLIENT: Exactly. So I think that's another part of it. It's like I'm trying all these things that are like if you're depressed, you're depressed like do you need to talk to somebody or to get on meds or you have to just work your way out of it.
THERAPIST: Right.
CLIENT: You know. And then I think that I'm—
THERAPIST: It doesn't mean that your efforts are for naught.
CLIENT: Right.
THERAPIST: It just means that if your standard is whether they fix the problem or not—
CLIENT: Then I'm putting myself at a high standard, I think.
THERAPIST: Yeah than you're going to be disappointed and frustrated and feel helpless and inadequate.
CLIENT: Right. Yeah. Uh, I mean I think it's good that he was able to pinpoint that you know, he's not dissatisfied with where we lives, he's not dissatisfied with me, he's not dissatisfied with—
THERAPIST: Yeah, what?
CLIENT: - you know, where we're headed in life. He's dissatisfied with his job. Like, that's it. And I mean that's good and I'm proud of him for kind of identifying that he actually is in a depressed place because of this, and not just in a depressed place because his life is going down the toilet or whatever.
And I think it was good to, for him to identify something that he would like, that he enjoyed doing in the past as a career and as a way to, you know, earn an income.
THERAPIST: So I, I'm guess I'm wondering if you're talking about uh, like actually a whole bunch of things that are pretty overwhelming for you.
CLIENT: It's all like highly overwhelming for me.
THERAPIST: Whether it's the car or his family or his depression. Yeah, it sounds like it's very overwhelming for you and so you get very busy trying to do something about it. And sometimes it's pretty (inaudible) [00:27:18] frustrated and sometimes sort of push the feeling of helpless.
CLIENT: Um hmm.
THERAPIST: But yeah, it's just like you get pretty overwhelmed by all of this.
CLIENT: It's a lot. Like it's a lot to be thinking about, you know, and being kind of dealing with, I mean and not so much of my own shit, you know. So yeah, it's feeling overwhelming. And I think that's why I keep trying to push the idea of spending more time like apart, like not necessarily apart but like—
THERAPIST: Doing your own thing?
CLIENT: Yeah, you know and he's, I'm having a hard time phrasing it. Every time I kind of mention it, it sounds like I'm saying you know, I think we spend too much time together which is not necessarily, well it is what I mean, but I don't want to put it like "I'm sick of your face", you know. And I think that's kind of how he is reading it because then he says, "Well I don't think we always spend too much time together. I think that, you know, we need to spend more time with friends" or whatever you know. So it's been hard for me to breach that.
THERAPIST: What you're saying is that it gets overwhelming to spend some much time with him when he's depressed.
CLIENT: Correct.
THERAPIST: And that, (inaudible) if things get better. It's just kind of overwhelming for you.
CLIENT: Right. It's like you know his chill and vent time turns into me like really having to listen to make sure that I'm responding where you know there are times where I do just want to lay on the couch like, and fall asleep or not talk, or just text with my friends or talk on the phone with my friend like - . And then another kind of issue that we have been having and I don't know if I brought it up last week was the whole issue of Belly dance. Did I talk about that?
THERAPIST: No.
CLIENT: I really like Belly dance. I've really liked Belly dance for a long time. I, once I started dating Franklin I tried to go with him a couple of times but he wasn't really into it and if we didn't go in time to catch the lesson portion, it was just kind of hard for him to be there. Now, that being said, it's not a partner dance right? Like it's a solo dance, right? (inaudible) [00:29:30] social nights like sure, they are like the sleazy guys who are there to try to pick up girls. But honestly for the most part, like it's just people like in the community who go to these Belly dance nights. And you dance and you dance with the many people and you dance for many hours and that's what you do. That's what it is.
We also tried to go, now so Franklin and I tried to also go to some group lessons together. He didn't like the group lessons because there were always more guys than girls because he's like, "Oh, all the guys are trying to learn so they can be sleazy so they can go out and hit on girls in the club" which I don't think is necessarily true for everybody. Maybe for some.
But I mean if people are paying for classes like obviously they're not just trying to like go and like grab one night stand like, I mean maybe they're trying to meet somebody. Anyway, so he didn't really like the classes because you'd have to dance solo in a circle because there were more girls than guys. And he didn't like that. He wasn't a fan. Okay?
So then he said well we can just learn on our own like with YouTube or you know, practice and then we can go out tonight and you know, do what we learned. Okay. I didn't really take the initiative so that I can make these like practice nights. But also it's kind of like I don't know what the hell I'm really doing. Like I still take lessons, like so I sit there and kind of like learn with you like from YouTube is not really like my idea of like and like go out and like do some routines.
And then, and then, and then on top of that the other reason I'm really not that motivated is because I have, when we have learned things and then gone out to dance night and tried to dance, he gets tired after two songs when I could literally dance like songs and songs in a row. And he can do that when he's break dancing. Like let's just put that out there. And he also gets annoyed at all the people that are there showboating. Like it's a Belly dance Night. Like people are going to be there showboating. Like it is the nature of the beast. It's annoying. They're obnoxious. Like you want to punch them in the face. But it's not your business. Like just dance.
So anyway, so this whole issue then came back up because I had a friend who I had met through dance, a girl, and she invited me out to the night the other night and Franklin realized that he doesn't feel comfortable with me going out Belly dancing and guys having their hands on my waist and blah, blah, blah.
And this is an issue for me that I don't know how to really work out. So in the kind of heat of the moment I was like fine, then I'm not going to go to Dance Nights without you. It's like I don't want to not do that. Like it's something that I've done forever and I don't really know how to now either integrate him into it or like explain to him that this is something I want to do on my own or with my friends or whatever.
Because then it turned into when we did have that kind of arguments he said, "Well then I'm going to start going to Reggae Nights". I was like what? And he was like, "Well that's even now right?" And I was like first of all, it's not the same thing. He was like "what do you mean? It's just a style of dance?" and I was no but I mean it's not like yes, like men are touching me when I dance but like, we're not like grinding. Like reggae is like a more gritty-like dance style which is fine. I don't have anything against it. It's great. It's fun, whatever. But like to be like "well if you're going to go out Belly dancing, I'm going to go dance with girls at the reggae club and then if they hit on me I'll just tell them that I have a girlfriend the same as you would." And I'm like not the same.
THERAPIST: Uh, okay. So I think, I think a lot of these get to be a little like the math problem—
CLIENT: Um hmm.
THERAPIST: - where like you get frustrated about it so that he's being fucking impossible. You know, you feel like you're being completely reasonable and it's not fucking working out and you don't know what the hell to do.
CLIENT: Right. That's it.
THERAPIST: And it gets really frustrating, not because of Dance Night is in and of itself, but you're just thinking (inaudible) important but because like now you've got a problem with your boyfriend and you can't fucking figure it out—
CLIENT: Exactly.
THERAPIST: - and you don't know what else to do and you're ready to tear your hair out.
CLIENT: Right which is why I came up with the (inaudible) [00:33:19] fine, I'll never go. (inaudible) Like, do you know what I mean like my whole life, fix it now.
THERAPIST: Right. So something happens that where I guess it gets hard to think because I've (inaudible) you could probably think your way through this.
CLIENT: (inaudible) so far, so I don't know.
THERAPIST: (inaudible) [00:33:38]. Well let's see.
CLIENT: But this is a fairly big issue right now for me. I mean like bigger than him being depressed issue.
THERAPIST: Dance Night's bigger than him being depressed?
CLIENT: Well no, it's not like in the grand scheme of things. Like obviously I want him - . But like I feel like I can like work through the whole, like him being depressed about his job thing more.
THERAPIST: Well you guys have a solution for that already.
CLIENT: Right. (long pause) And like he's generally not a jealous person. So you know kind of this.
THERAPIST: Yeah. Are you surprised that he's jealous about you going out?
CLIENT: I am. I am. Yeah.
THERAPIST: What do you think it is? Do you think it's—go ahead.
CLIENT: Well he in kind (inaudible) [00:34:48] that we use I had a couple of times about this, he did say during one heated moment, "I'm not, that's not my culture. I'm not into that culture. I can't get into that culture. If you want to be with the man who's into that culture, then you need to go and find yourself a Spaniard." And of course, in my head I was like maybe I will, you know. I didn't say that.
THERAPIST: But he was probably getting it.
CLIENT: Yeah, yeah, yes. But that's what he said and I found that interesting. I was like, okay.
THERAPIST: Do you think he's also more insecure because he's depressed?
CLIENT: I think probably a little but I think also the Spaniard thing, I think there's a little insecurity up there and I kind of, you know, he's, like I said, he's not very jealous. He doesn't you know, worry about who I'm talking to, who's on my phone, this and that. But I think when it comes to him knowing how passionate I am about the language, the culture, food, music, you know dancing, countries you know, I think that clearly there's an insecurity there for him.
THERAPIST: Yeah, I guess he's, sounds like he's sort of jealous about your interest and focus on that which is something he's not a part of (inaudible)—
(CROSSTALK)
CLIENT: And maybe worried that I ultimately would rather be with somebody who is into all that stuff as well. And really yes, I would love my partner to be into some of that stuff, you know, with me. But if not, I'd like to be able to be into it by myself still. And—
THERAPIST: What is it with the (inaudible) [00:36:20], I don't understand. What is it with the dancing? I would imagine he could learn something like that in 10 minutes. Not that it's easy but like he's uh—
CLIENT: He's very good at it.
THERAPIST: Yeah, I would think so.
CLIENT: Like he learned it in two seconds when we were taking the lessons, you know. And I thought he was having fun but like I said, that when we would go to Dance Nights where we could actually just have—
THERAPIST: Is he like not, you know, one of the top few people in the room which he is with acting?
CLIENT: Maybe. I didn't ask him that but that's like a thought. Yeah. I mean maybe but he says it's because he hates all the people, all the showboat people. So maybe that, you know I'm not so good so I don't know if I want to do it for that many songs.
THERAPIST: Maybe not so good but he's not one of the top bests. I would imagine he is with what he's more comfortable with.
CLIENT: Yeah and his crew, you know, in the area, yeah sure.
THERAPIST: Okay, sure. (inaudible) [00:37:14] kind of insecure and kind of jealous, I don't know. What can you do to help with it I mean to the end of his sort of lightening up about this stuff one way or another?
CLIENT: I don't know. It's like uh, like I really don't know what to do. Like I guess I could like start to practice with him at home a little bit. But again I guess I kind of feel like that's not, like how much of a reason to learn from like YouTube, like—
THERAPIST: What about reassuring him?
CLIENT: Like about what? Like that nothing's going to happen or that he's good at it?
THERAPIST: Like, I feel this is a lot about, you know, how excited you are about him like how, 'cause I know he's feeling these days or something like that.
CLIENT: Um hmm. Um hmm.
THERAPIST: I would imagine also like how much he feels like you have a career that he doesn't have. You know all sorts of things it could be. He's depressed at the job, stuff he wants to do isn't working out. Some big stuff. I would imagine like, I don't know. Like I imagine it might help him to like for you to reassure him about stuff he's insecure about.
CLIENT: Um hmm.
THERAPIST: I mean in other words if that's what's driving his jealously—
CLIENT: Right.
THERAPIST: (inaudible) [00:38:46]
CLIENT: No that's a good starting point. I guess I, again I go to the worst case scenario and in my head it's I'm never going to be able to Belly dance again unless I'm with him. Like that's where I immediately went with this whole thing and kind of was like then I'm just going to forget it which I don't want to do. (inaudible) [00:39:03] obviously.
THERAPIST: Right. And the fact that like if he is like feeling insecure or not like telling him that he's being ridiculous or he's making sense or—
CLIENT: It's not going to help.
THERAPIST: (inaudible) [00:39:15] probably not going to get you what you want.
CLIENT: Right.
THERAPIST: You know like yeah, (inaudible) I don't know. It doesn't actually sound to me like you guys had a conversation about it so much as an argument about it, you know. Like I feel like you learn a lot about why he's insecure, what he's upset about, what would make him feel better about it like as well as tell him like, you know, the kind of impossible position you're in which is that it's something you really like to do, you'd love to do it with him. It would be okay to do it without him. But he's not really leaving any alternatives.
CLIENT: Um hmm.
THERAPIST: You know. And like that's tough. He's an important part of your life, and blah, blah, blah. Like, uh yeah I guess, I guess what probably happens for you is you start to get overwhelmed (inaudible) [00:40:15] going when you are or you're not sure how to manage it. And then it becomes more (inaudible) and that's kind of shot.
CLIENT: Right.
THERAPIST: But I think that is valid what you said about, you know, kind of just reassuring him—
THERAPIST: Yeah.
CLIENT: - I mean telling him about stuff like little stuff first like then hopefully that'll kind of lead out to—
(crosstalk)
THERAPIST: You're asking him to (inaudible) about it in any case like, you know—
CLIENT: Right. Right. And you know so that it's going to be interesting kind of in the next could of weeks or even a couple of days to see kind of how things change having, you know, kind of made this decision about where he wants to go next.
(CROSSTALK)
THERAPIST: Right. Yeah. Now that I'm thinking about it but like, so like I'm not saying like be manipulative and going sort of stuff to make him feel better and then he'll go Belly dancing. (Laughing)
CLIENT: Right.
THERAPIST: But like I don't know, if you think about what this time is like for him being depressed and what he's struggling with and upset about, how he probably feels about himself as a result, what his worries about his future are, you know like I'm sure he sees his family. It doesn't sound like he has role models there, you know, and here he is having tried a sort of plausible career track and it's not working out and he's now got to sort of restart and figure out what else he wants to do and he must be really worried not everything's going to work out -
CLIENT: Right.
THERAPIST: - or you know, and then he's going to be, you know, here you are working at MIT in a sort of snazzy center with all these high-powered people and like I don't know, but I could image that (inaudible) [00:41:55], you know he's feeling kind of crummy about himself and I don't know, like if you communicate some of your sense of what this must be like for him, it would probably be helpful.
I actually think, I mean that's not going to fix his depression but I think and I know at least as helpful sort of like sort of keeping it positive and it's (inaudible) [00:42:20] like find out think of the ways that you understand where he's coming from and what things are probably like for him now and like that you've thought about why he must be upset struggling and all that. Like I imagine that would be good news to him.
CLIENT: Yeah. One would hope. Yeah, but that's a good place to start, I think. That's good advice.
THERAPIST: And I guess, it sounds like there are ways that when he's feeling this way, you can become for him, you know, you can make him feel bad not (inaudible) [00:42:57] but like because you have a career you're happy with, you know what I mean? And he can feel bad about that. (inaudible) look to the other side how like you know, you're there for him, you want to help him and be there for him and da da da da.
CLIENT: When you're putting it in that perspective I, you know it's the thought of me saying "Oh well it's one thing that I'm going to go out dancing with my friend Amanda. I'll be back at 1:00 a.m. or whatever while he's sitting at home hating the job he just came from, dreading to have to go the next day. Would feel pretty shitty would be like (inaudible) [00:43:32] dancing having a good time not worrying about anything.
THERAPIST: Right.
CLIENT: So putting it in that perspective definitely kind of is giving me a clearer picture of—
THERAPIST: Sure and like -<br />
CLIENT: - why (inaudible).
THERAPIST: Yeah, hopefully it won't come to this, but if it, if it was, you know, if you couldn't go Belly dancing for two or three months, while he like switch jobs, start to pull himself out of this, start to feeling better so that he'll have more fun with what he's doing, like that would be good. And I hope it doesn't come to that. But it's not the same as never being able to go again.
CLIENT: Right. Well I had a (inaudible) [00:44:06] already. So I mean it's like a couple more months is really not that bad.
THERAPIST: I see.
CLIENT: But if I could just like get back into it at a certain point. And I imagine also if it were on the night that let's say he were going to a play that I didn't want to go to, that I didn't want to pay for whatever, and I went out and did my thing I imagine that he would probably feel better about it in that scenario.
THERAPIST: Right.
CLIENT: You know, so that's, that's good. Alright.
THERAPIST: Yeah, we stop for now.
CLIENT: Great. So next week do you, are we going back to regular time?
THERAPIST: Uh, sure. I meant that's sort of what I imagined. Does that make sense?
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: (inaudible) sooner than that or what's your thought?
CLIENT: No, that's fine. Yeah. (inaudible) e-mail if I'm feeling like a change is better.
THERAPIST: Absolutely. Yeah, definitely.
CLIENT: Okay.
THERAPIST: Alright.
CLIENT: Thank you.
THERAPIST: No problem.
END TRANSCRIPT
