TRANSCRIPT OF AUDIO FILE:
______________________________________________________________________________
BEGIN TRANSCRIPT:
INTERVEIWER: Interview 13. Interview 13.
CLIENT: How are you?
THERAPIST: OK. How are you?
CLIENT: Well, I don't know, sort of OK, sort of [no] (ph). One thing that [makes me] (ph) (inaudible at 0:00:20.5) that. Like it was, like sort of mechanical, you know, but [very smoothly] (ph) and I don't (inaudible at 0:00:37.8) talked (inaudible) at me and had me at her house. And took me to the hospital [Saturday] (ph) morning and [stayed with me till it was done] (ph) and went to the airport with me. [I was] (Ph) perfectly fine.
I guess [I thought about] (ph) this. I was sort of trying to think about how to say this differently than I [thought through] (ph). When I got home [well] (ph) we had a deal that I'd call-I wouldn't come back [standby] (ph) and I (inaudible at 0:01:17.0) call Michelle for myself and tell him. You know so that they (inaudible at 0:01:21.5) fight.
THERAPIST: Right.
CLIENT: And no one was home so I didn't expect anybody to meet me at the airport, but this girl was going to try a couple (inaudible at 0:01:29.6). Well I guess - 
THERAPIST: The girl who you stayed with in Kansas?
CLIENT: Yeah. I got to O'Hara [a little bit earlier] (ph) so I went and called and I got sort of angry on the phone. [Her father] (Ph) answered and said that they just left. And (inaudible at 0:01:46.1) just got (inaudible) do I want to talk to him? And I said no, I didn't want to. And I said "When did they leave?"
THERAPIST: Did they leave for the airport (inaudible at 0:01:54.6)?
CLIENT: Yeah, she was coming to pick me up. And so I said "OK." And then (inaudible at 0:01:59.9) asked me again did I want to talk to Don. I said, "No, I don't want to." And I made an excuse, I said, "I have to go to that bathroom, I'll see you later." you know.
THERAPIST: You just got angry and - 
CLIENT: Yeah. And I wasn't angry when I was on the plane because I [realized] (ph) well nobody was home. And I didn't expect anybody to be there. But then when I called and they had finally gotten the message and it was because no-well at any rate.
THERAPIST: Could they have gotten your message, but they still didn't get there and leave on time?
CLIENT: Well they didn't get the message until after the plane left.
THERAPIST: Um-hmm.
CLIENT: See what I'd forgotten to do, I forgot to put when the plane left. I wrote down when the plane came in. So it was partly my fault. So, so [then he] (ph) came. And I was all right when I got home. I (inaudible at 0:02:47.0) sort of walked in and sort of this expectancy that I should fall apart, just completely fall apart, you know. And at that point, like, I had been going through this very, very strongly, like [rather] (ph) calmly and, and not nervous. You know I was nervous about going to the hospital. And you know things weren't extremely painful. They weren't extremely comfortable either. It was no-
THERAPIST: It wasn't a - 
CLIENT: It wasn't a seriously difficult thing.
THERAPIST: One of the biggest traumatic few days you've ever spent.
CLIENT: No. I guess I was prepared for them and I was really strong about the whole thing.
THERAPIST: It was kind of like following through with the hard times [that have been] (ph) before [in a way] (ph). 0:03:24.5
CLIENT: Yeah. And I, I don't sort of like I-I guess part of the thing I think of is I didn't really give any time to be emotional about it. It was something I had decided and I decided it was a good idea to-it was a good decision.
THERAPIST: Um-hmm.
CLIENT: There was no sense getting upset about it. Go through it, you know. I was anxious about making sure connections were made. I had to be at the hospital on time, that kind of stuff. It was the only thing that was really anxiety creating or even making me nervous is making sure I got - 
THERAPIST: Everything worked.
CLIENT: And everything went perfectly well. Now the (inaudible at 0:03:59.9) is sort of like, you know, like Daisy when she met me at the airport thought I'd look real groggy, you know. Well I came out of it all right, you know. They used a very local anesthesia that didn't do much to kill any pain, although it isn't an extremely painful operation. And if you get really nervous or tight they shoot you with Demerol, which doesn't do anything for the pain either, it just makes you dizzy and relaxes you. I did - I mean almost through the whole operation and then I decided that I better take it because I almost fainted. And so I was dizzy for an hour and a half. I don't think the nurse gave me very much because I told her I didn't want it. And I was almost through anyway. 0:04:37.7
So I came out of it very well, you know. There were other people sick and not doing as well as I was, you know. There's this expectancy like I was going to fall apart and so I came in "Hi" you know "How are you?" Everything was fine.
THERAPIST: In a way it was almost kind of like-you felt from your, end like maybe it wasn't that, to you didn't feel that much different coming in after being away from there (inaudible at 0:05:00.4) to-or just coming to school.
CLIENT: No, it was different. But it was different. I guess it was that I'd been strong and what they expected to see was that I couldn't be strong.
THERAPIST: I see. And it really mad you angry. That's what they thought of you. They kind of in a way, or - 
CLIENT: I know there [that] (ph) it made me mad, but I, or if it was that I was in that rut of strength, you know, and I hadn't relaxed yet or anything like that. So I came in and I, and I just said hi and everything was OK. I felt [sorry] (ph), physically, you know, and I was tired. So I said, "I think I'll lay down for awhile." And [Sarge] (ph) came in the room-his grandmother died last week and he'd been up at his folk's house. And so he came in the room and it was like he wanted me to fall apart too. I was pretty oblivious to what they were-how-whether they were concerned or not, I guess. It was just that I sort of sensed this expectancy that I - 
THERAPIST: Would fall apart (inaudible at 0:06:19.9).
CLIENT: Yeah. But I was really not very sensitive to-like I didn't even tell Daisy thank you. And I realized it much later. I didn't even thank her for coming, you know. So Don and I went into the bedroom and I layed down and he sat in the chair. And I asked him how things had gone. And all of a sudden-and I guess I didn't really want to know. I wanted to cry then. I wanted to just-then I wanted to let it all out. And he started telling how (inaudible at 0:06:52.9) shit on him all week and they gave him a hard time about having long hair. And they give, you know, like he was going through all this hassle with all of his family. And all of a sudden I found myself having to listen to him - 
THERAPIST: And (inaudible at 0:07:04.6) wanted to listen to him.
CLIENT: I didn't want to listen to that crap at all. I wasn't interested. And I found myself responding to it, you know, and carrying on the strength, you know.
INTERVEIWER: Um-hmm. Just keeping it up.
CLIENT: Yeah. And so he was really upset. He let himself get really upset and he started talking about it, you know. And he was also upset about me I guess. It was almost to tears he was so upset. So finally I said, "Well come and lay down." so we just layed down for awhile, for about an hour or so. I couldn't go to sleep and-he was really tired, he hadn't slept-but he couldn't go to sleep either so we just kind of rested for about an hour. 0:07:40.9
Got up and other people went out and they said, "Do you want to come to this party?" and I said "No, I think I probably ought to just take it easy tonight." Although, you know, I must have appeared very, still strong. And I was, except I was tired, you know. So they all left and Don and I were sitting in the living room watching TV. And I guess things started welling up inside and this movie came on and it was one of them sentimental tear-jerkers. Well I couldn't even listen to the music so I said, "I'm going to bed." And I couldn't trust-what was really upsetting about all of that was I couldn't cry in front of him, I couldn't let it out. 0:08:28.4
THERAPIST: That's what I don't understand, is you feel like you have to keep up your [strongness] (ph) and... because it sounds like it was really loaded and heavy on you.
CLIENT: I don't know. And I went to bed and I cried for a little while, just for a really short time [I sort of] (ph) went to sleep, you know. And Don came to bed and that was kind of the end of it until Sunday. I don't know it was just like I couldn't-I don't know if it was like I had felt like the opportunity was rejected when I-earlier in the day, you know, when he got off on his thing.
THERAPIST: Yeah, when [he asked you] (ph) how it was and was willing to (inaudible at 0:09:09.0) but you didn't-you just [balled] (ph) it up and asked him how (inaudible at 0:09:13.4) kind of [went] (ph). You felt like you could've done it then didn't you?
CLIENT: Well I don't know if I could have done it then, there were other people in the house. Like I get really paranoid, like I have to be all alone.
THERAPIST: Well I can you-do you feel like you [can] (ph) cry with Don usually (inaudible at 0:09:30.9)?
CLIENT: Yeah, maybe if I was really upset I could cry.
THERAPIST: I guess maybe this kind of (inaudible at 0:09:39.3) would be a big (inaudible at 0:09:40.9).
CLIENT: Yeah (inaudible at 0:09:43.1) and I guess when I went to-I guess I was afraid of it, like I wasn't sure why. And I was afraid. And I think-and I still am, you know. W-w-w, and then Sunday I got up, I guess I still running around kind of insensitive to anybody else. And I think I sort of still am. I don't know. And I-I got up early and then in the afternoon went to the library. Came back and Don had made some supper then. Oh and I came back from the library he was TV and I said "You haven't been studying, you were (inaudible at 0:10:20.9)." And I was kidding and we were laughing really silly. (Inaudible at 0:10:24.0) you know just being silly for...
And then we had supper and I said, "Are you going to study?" And he said, "Well I'd like to." Then he tells me he was stoned. Well that's not any big deal really, you know. Except that I really blew it into something and I got really upset. I didn't say I was angry and I just said-I guess I said I was mad because he didn't tell, I didn't know. I-I didn't see that he was stoned at all. And then he thought that was really silly that I didn't notice how stoned he was. And I said, "I guess you did laugh sort of funny, but I really didn't think much of it." And I didn't know he was stoned. And this was two hours later so he was really stoned. 0:11:05.6
And I got mad that he didn't tell me, but then I couldn't say anything. And I soon began to realize that it probably wasn't that that I was mad at, but I couldn't say that to him. And I couldn't say to him I was sorry I was being a bitch, which I was and [paternalistic] (ph) kind of. And so he went in to watch TV and I went and I went in and sat down. I couldn't see anything. I went in the bedroom and I started crying. And he came in and I, you know, was just sobbing. And must have sobbed for a couple hours. 0:11:41.3
And for a really long time I couldn't speak at all. And a lot of things I could've said and I couldn't say them. And I didn't sleep very much last night and like all these things have been welling up. I'm afraid that with all this coming out, I still feel it today, I'm afraid it's all a part of, I'm afraid it's all really directly connected to being pregnant, having an abortion.
Last night I thought it related to kind of a real [moralism] (ph) of growing up and that although I thought I was really free, or freeing myself of all of that. And I'm being honest with myself, you know, that that [moralism] (ph) was condemning me for what I did. I'm not sure that's what it all is, but like I've been really, just really depressed.
THERAPIST: Yeah. Do you mean like you were (inaudible at 0:12:59.2) down ness and kind of a sadness and welling up inside was kind of you're feeling guilty or a (inaudible at 0:13:08.0) about that (inaudible)?
CLIENT: Yeah. Like, I don't know.
THERAPIST: Is (inaudible at 0:13:18.8) the abortion more than about getting pregnant?
CLIENT: I don't know. I don't know if I can (inaudible at 0:13:24.2) between. Like I also - 
THERAPIST: Because they are two, you know, really different things (inaudible at 0:13:28.9). I mean they're two moral issues. It could be modeled very each case.
CLIENT: You know, (inaudible at 0:13:38.2), yeah. I don't, I don't know though. I suppose right now if it's guilt-I also figured potentially, you know, depression can come just from that kind of an operation, you know. And just physical kind of exhaustion.
THERAPIST: It's not as simple (inaudible at 0:14:05.3) that kind of thing (inaudible). [Just] (Ph) goes with very, very, you know, either very intense, very prolonged anguish, you know, disruptive period. When it's over there a (inaudible at 0:14:20.2). (Inaudible) doing something very exciting for me. Or towards something that's [over you now] (ph) and can (inaudible at 0:14:28.7) hard things. (Inaudible at 0:14:31.7) an ordeal it's over (inaudible).
CLIENT: Yeah. I guess, I think - 
THERAPIST: Having, you know what I mean, it's a very human reaction (inaudible at 0:14:42.0) good or bad. (Inaudible).
CLIENT: Yeah. And I guess I look at that as, you know, okay, I'm afraid though. I'm just afraid of - and I don't know whether it's what you just said. You know if it's just (inaudible at 0:15:08.0) thing, that sort of just came into my mind. Like I've been going over everything that's happened from the time I discovered that I was pregnant, every single thing that has happened. And I've gone over, you know, step by step everything that happened and all kind of feeling I had when I went to Kansas City. All that stuff.
Maybe it is just (inaudible at 0:15:38.2).
THERAPIST: Well yeah, I mean you know (inaudible at 0:15:43.8) because it does sound like, you know, you really do have doubts that there really may be some kind of moral [dilemma] (ph) going on inside you.
CLIENT: Yeah. When I was crying it wasn't-like the least thing in my mind was sort of the abortion and the most thing in my mind was total, total depression. When Sarge came in and I just started going and I said "I'm sorry I'm such a bitch." And when I was finally able to talk. And he said something about feeling guilty. And I said, "Guilty?" you know like guilty about what. I said, "No, I don't feel guilty." And then I started thinking of you know us getting married and (inaudible at 0:16:34.7) be scared about that. It was like all sorts of things.
So it wasn't too much later I started to look at it, I was sort of afraid at that point to pin it - 
THERAPIST: To pin it onto anything. It was just a whole big well of depression (inaudible at 0:16:50.8) specified.
CLIENT: Yeah. It really wasn't specified [till what I'd] (ph) been through over the weekend.
THERAPIST: So (inaudible at 0:16:58.9) feeling that, you know, you were feeling (inaudible) like you were feeling anything just that really heavy down, [gray despair] (ph).
CLIENT: Yeah. To me it sounds reasonable that the depression, you know, [me being more like to] (ph) you know just going through something. And I - 
THERAPIST: You know when you, you know another thing about that is, you know, you did have a lot of feelings and you know you kind of, your emotions overcame you the first couple days. It was very hard for you to go through those, a week or so, you know until it was all over. But you were keeping up strong ness inside. And you know because you know you wanted to get (inaudible at 0:17:52.9) get it done. It was kind of like (inaudible) catch up to you. Do you see what I mean?
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: Kind of like you've been, kind of (inaudible at 0:18:01.4) just kind of haven't been honest or you couldn't be attuned to yourself and your feelings, you know, because it was too much. But it's kind of like it wells up because it's been, you've been some place else, you've been being strong and being determined.
CLIENT: Yeah. When Don came in last night, you know, it was good and then I explained, finally was able to explain to him, you know, that I'd been carrying that since Saturday. And I told him that I didn't feel like he allowed me to, to, to be weak, to let it come out. Then he said to me-which was true-you know I didn't allow my, allowed him to open to me either.
THERAPIST: Um-hmm. You have (inaudible at 0:18:57.5) again, like you came in being strong. You were expected to be weak, but you wouldn't be.
CLIENT: Yeah. Well and then, and then he, he was, you know, saying to me how I don't let him help, help me. And I was like; at that point I didn't want help. I didn't feel like I needed help last night, as much as I just needed someone, period.
THERAPIST: Yeah. Just needed to be with somebody, have someone close by.
CLIENT: Yeah. And then it wasn't [just that] (ph) you know I just needed to be able to be weak and just needed to be there. And I didn't need help because - 
THERAPIST: Yeah. He didn't have to say anything, just [as well as] (ph) just share.
CLIENT: Yeah. Right. Right. I don't know if he understood all of it. Like I think he was very bewildered by, by it all. Like Monday I got up early again and he stayed until Monday afternoon-I was just thinking that yesterday was Monday not [Sunday] (ph). And I went to the laundry. He (inaudible at 0:20:15.9). It's just sort of a thing like I don't know if he understands or he don't. and (inaudible at 0:20:24.4) was like, I guess I don't know if I understand him in terms of, I think in terms of just being with him when I need to let things out.
THERAPIST: Yeah. You mean like you don't, it's kind of like you don't quite feel like you have something established where you just feel very emotional, like a framework or a way of relating to each other. Is it something like that? kind of like you know you kind of relate to each other when you see each other and there are fluctuations in mood, but kind of like there's a real upset like in you, kind of like, you know, it's kind of contrasted to when you kind of know how each other acts and reacts. It's kind of like that isn't the, you don't have a framework between you for that. Is it is something (inaudible at 0:21:19.2)?
CLIENT: Yeah. As a matter of fact, except for the very first summer I knew Don, I don't think there's been a time when I've really, when he's been with me when I'm really down like this weekend. I don't think there's been a time when he's gone through a crisis with me.
THERAPIST: Um-hmm. Kind of like crisis kind of relating or relating to someone who's really in despair and [it's something that] (ph) you know you haven't. It's kind of like you couldn't understand why he was bewildered and you were kind of bewildered about his reaction.
CLIENT: Yeah. See I've gone through stuff with him. And I guess I react to it in a sensible way like, you know it's been a growing understanding of where he's at you know and I think it grows into (inaudible at 0:22:28.7) to it. Much of it began as just being sensible and rational. And I think I have more of an impute when he goes through something than [I wanted] (ph). But he's never been with me, you know. And I guess there isn't-I don't go through it the same way he does, go through something, you know. I almost feel like he was interpreting things. And I mean the only way could not have done that is if I could have said to him the way I felt, the things I was thinking. And I was mad at myself because I couldn't say it, I couldn't talk.
THERAPIST: I mean why should you be mad at yourself when all you could feel is despair and sorrow?
CLIENT: I guess because I wanted him to understand and I didn't think he could understand - 
THERAPIST: Sobs.
CLIENT: Yeah. My crying. And maybe I even anticipated his misunderstanding like I said, you know, like all I was finally able to say after awhile was, "you know I'm really sorry I've been a bitch." And then he started talking and he said something about feeling guilty, you know. And that hadn't yet crossed my mind, you know, like I hadn't even thought of it.
I don't know where it leaves us.
THERAPIST: What I sense here you saying is that, like you had kind of wanted a release from (inaudible at 0:24:11.3), some kind of, at least make sense as far as talking words. But you just couldn't because that's, the only thing that was there was that welling up and kind of like he didn't know how to react to you.
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: [Feeling] (ph) kind of disturbed maybe.
CLIENT: Well his reaction - 
THERAPIST: You're kind of are used to relating to him, I mean sobbing and despairing, but that's all you could do (inaudible at 0:24:38.7).
CLIENT: Yeah. You know like his action reaction was something I needed, you know, just to hold me.
THERAPIST: Right.
CLIENT: But his verbal reaction - 
THERAPIST: It comes from (inaudible at 0:24:50.9).
CLIENT: That's it.
THERAPIST: You didn't need him to try to understand. Well maybe you're feeling guilty. You didn't want that all you did is want to be held. Just like all [he] (ph) did was want to sob.
CLIENT: Yeah. Yeah. I was thinking something else, I can't remember. (Pause in audio 0:25:11.4 to 0:25:41.0)
THERAPIST: (Inaudible).
CLIENT: Yeah. And I, what scares me about that, I don't know if it's [I don't know if it's the right one] (ph), is that you know I usually get something out and get out.
THERAPIST: (Inaudible at 0:26:01.8).
CLIENT: Yeah. And like this is (inaudible) and I don't know that I-I don't feel very good about it, it's not comfortable.
THERAPIST: Yeah. [You're used to] (Ph) (Inaudible at 0:26:13.4) inside you. [Don't feel] (Ph) clear.
CLIENT: Yeah. I really don't. You know I mean I know the last couple days I've just been sort of walking around existing.
THERAPIST: (Inaudible at 0:26:30.6) days or something (inaudible) not really clear (inaudible) to anything that's (inaudible) just very (inaudible) what that (inaudible) is kind of numbing (inaudible).
CLIENT: Yeah. And I, you know, I guess I see myself running around the house being bitchy at people. And if I don't verbalize it, you know, I'm sure feeling it, you know. The little kind of things you know, that are annoying really are bugging the hell out of me.
THERAPIST: You feel really edgy.
CLIENT: Yeah. I do and I'm sure it's, you know, I'm sure it's noticeable. And I don't feel as though I can say anything to anybody.
THERAPIST: Yeah, because yeah you kind of feel wrong (inaudible at 0:27:18.6), I guess that you feel wrong and guilty like, you know. When you said "I've been being bitchy" kind of sounded like you just kind of [unhappy] (ph).
CLIENT: Yeah. and I guess what I'm afraid of, Scott, is like if I start to talk to anyone I, I, I've got this construed in my mind that people-at least my roommates-are going to connect it with having an abortion you know.
THERAPIST: [Being] (ph) making (inaudible at 0:27:45.9) in their mind (inaudible).
CLIENT: Condemning. I think I'm afraid of being condemned now, you know. And I think maybe that's why I came back so strong is that - 
THERAPIST: You didn't want to be treated as anything other than the way you usually are.
CLIENT: Yeah. Right. Yeah. I didn't want sympathy. And maybe that, you know, expectant letting out everything would invoke sympathy. And I didn't want any sympathy from anybody. I don't know. So like, I just can't talk about it to anybody. And I don't know if that makes me feel bad or not.
THERAPIST: I kind of sense you can't talk about it to anyone, is it because you don't want them to be kind of thinking something about you (inaudible at 0:28:56.4) sounds like would be something (inaudible) she's (inaudible) to her (inaudible) upset.
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: She's not quite the same as she was before all this.
CLIENT: I don't know. I don't know. I really don't know what - 
THERAPIST: Because I kind of sense that you want, you don't want kind of a response to this from them.
CLIENT: I'm just clamming up right now, you know, just withdrawing from everybody. Very much so. And like, just in little spurts I just forget about being depressed and laugh, you know, and feel good. And that's okay. I feel good about it, I don't feel bad. But most the time I'm just sort of overwhelmed by anybody saying anything it will make me cry, you know.
THERAPIST: You kind of want (inaudible at 0:30:06.8) you want to be away from anything that can trigger it off.
CLIENT: Yeah. And I'm almost [really] (ph) paranoid. Like Daisy and I are having a shower for my other two roommates-a party, not a shower, a party for people. We're making up these things, I did the one part of the invitation and (inaudible at 0:30:24.6) just overwhelming with positive about how nice it was because I added something and it looked really, really neat. And I was, I became paranoid like, okay I think that's neat too, you don't have to say it a million times. It was like she really knew I felt bad and she had to - 
THERAPIST: She was making, it's kind of like (inaudible at 0:30:44.5) [treating you] (ph) like a [little kid] (ph) that doesn't do anything to make them feel good, you know, [when they] (ph) do something you just get praise (inaudible at 0:30:52.1).
CLIENT: Yeah. And I know, you know, like I've been very, like I haven't said anything nice to anybody about what they've [done] (ph). You know like I'll say to Daisy, I'll bitch about something Lily doing, you know, or the other way around. So I'm even withdrawing more because I don't want to do that. I really feel bad about doing that too.
THERAPIST: Yeah. Because it's like (inaudible at 0:31:22.3) you just don't like reacting this kind of (inaudible) respect to people.
CLIENT: Yeah. And that it's-I guess I didn't expect a reaction. I don't know what I expected. I hadn't - 
THERAPIST: (Inaudible at 0:31:38.1).
CLIENT: For myself, you know, like I guess I hadn't really looked to what, how, I guess I had looked that I would be perfectly fine.
THERAPIST: Well you see, I think that [was] (ph) part of the problem because you wanted to be treated like you were perfectly fine, getting [annoyed] (ph) when you don't. But you're not. You really don't want to accept that (inaudible at 0:31:56.3). But yeah. [And what you're talking is] (Ph) that you do feel different [you said that] (ph) you know, after the whole thing. And things can't quite be the same way. [They aren't if] (Ph) you get annoyed at yourself because you're not the same way. You're bitchy or you get annoyed at them because they're treating you different. That may not be the reaction you want. Or maybe that you want things to seem like they're just the way they were before. You know you just don't feel quite the same way.
CLIENT: Yeah. I can relate that with the kind of message I gave to Don on Saturday, what I really meant. And it, you know, crosses two entirely different kinds of things.
THERAPIST: Yeah. Very, you know, very (inaudible at 0:32:51.4) I mean there is a breaking (inaudible), you know. It's like I'm okay. How are you? That's how you're trying to act.
CLIENT: Well I'm not - 
THERAPIST: But you can't [pull] (ph) it off. You know.
CLIENT: Oh but I did.
THERAPIST: You did [pull] (ph) it off compared to (inaudible at 0:33:07.2).
CLIENT: (Inaudible) anything, but I pulled it off, you know.
THERAPIST: But that's what I'm saying. It's kind of like you do feel like, you know, you just want to act like usual, but there's too much going inside of you. So you get edgy.
CLIENT: Yeah. I don't know. I don't like giving double messages like that, you know. And I think I probably do that a lot. And it sort of makes me think back to the, [with] (ph) things about, you know, being able to put on acts, you know, that kind of thing. And like this wasn't, I guess it wasn't even intentional. You know I don't think I-well sort of, but it wasn't either.
THERAPIST: Which you told me that when you told Don you were all right on Saturday.
CLIENT: Yeah, I guess I expect him to see through, to see through that kind of stuff, you know.
THERAPIST: That's what you wanted. You wanted to mourn (inaudible at 0:34:07.3).
CLIENT: Yeah. Yeah. And I don't know how I-maybe just so hard to be honest, you know, so hard to come across with straight things when they're so hard to say. That I can't say it straight, you know. And I guess by the time, you know, Sunday night rolled around I couldn't say it straight, but I couldn't hide it anymore either.
THERAPIST: Right. And so it's just kind of having been hidden it just rolled right out, [pouring] (ph).
CLIENT: I guess I feel, [I'm thinking how] (ph) upsetting it is not to be able to, you know, be straight with the way I really feel. You know even when it's not so much of a risk to do that. It probably wouldn't be, even now, to my roommates it wouldn't be that big of risk. They're open and very willing to probably, you know, do nothing but just be there. You know just I guess the way I feel. Like I want someone to be, or I can't even, you know, come through straight. I don't know if it's, you know, embarrassment about crying in front of people as part of it. You know it says I'm not strong I guess and I have to be strong.
THERAPIST: Yeah. It's kind of like you don't want to-you want people to, you want to present a face to people that's strong and can stand up and go through a whole lot and not get emotional about it (inaudible at 0:36:24.1). It's [unappealing] (ph). I mean it's a hard thing (inaudible at 0:36:33.1) I'm saying. It's kind of like you don't want to say that's not you because it is (crosstalk).
CLIENT: I don't know. Yeah, I don't know.
THERAPIST: But it's also you do have those kinds of reactions, too.
CLIENT: It's like Sunday after I started talking, you know, it's like I said-I couldn't be weak, like he wouldn't let me be weak. And then he'd say something about helping. I'd say, "I don't need help." I just want to let it - 
THERAPIST: You want to be weak and be held.
CLIENT: Yeah, you know. And I, you know, but there was a contradiction about being strong but wanting to be weak too, you know.
THERAPIST: I guess I do understand why do you call getting upset and crying being weak?
CLIENT: Hmm. I guess I always have thought that crying is weak, you know.
THERAPIST: Don't you think it's human, the need to cry?
CLIENT: Yeah. Yeah, it is.
THERAPIST: (Inaudible at 0:37:46.4). I mean don't you think it would take kind of strength also to cry also? You see what I mean?
CLIENT: What? I don't know if I buy that. You know I know what you're saying, but I - 
THERAPIST: Kind of letting yourself be touched and have your feelings (inaudible at 0:38:07.4).
CLIENT: Yeah. Yeah, I do. I can't do that. Or if I do it, like, it sort of has to be hidden.
THERAPIST: Like people can't (inaudible at 0:38:23.1).
CLIENT: Which is, yeah, which is sort of I guess, I guess that really (inaudible at 0:38:27.6), you know, let your feelings come out, you know, or just be. And I guess I identify with that in terms of difficulties, you know, in letting my feelings come out. And I, you know, as much as I think I can more than I used, I'm not so sure that's true.
THERAPIST: Kind of still [want to] (ph) just, you can't hold them in. They just have to [come out] (ph). You don't wan them to. You'd rather not have them [come out] (ph) sort of (inaudible at 0:39:02.5) too big to hold.
CLIENT: Yeah. You know I, I, I feel sort of I don't think it's guilty; I feel sort of bad or something. But in the process of all of the kind of emotional building up inside of me, you know, I sort of off and on see myself being totally innocent to anybody else's feelings. A very small kind of thing is at the library yesterday, Jill works there, you know, she went home at noon because she felt sick. But all I could say is "Oh" and on the way home from class I thought about her, you know, and wondered if she's okay. [I never thought about] (Ph). And then I got home and left again and never said anything about being concerned about whether she (inaudible at 0:40:11.1) felt all right. (Inaudible). 
(Crosstalk).
THERAPIST: - see inside yourself.
CLIENT: Yeah. And it was-although I was sort of mechanically sensitive to Don on Saturday - 
THERAPIST: It wasn't really what you (inaudible at 0:40:30.1).
CLIENT: I don't know what was (inaudible). I guess I kind of [respond to] (ph) that. And I guess I can kind of recall feeling really bad about it, really angry with his family, you know. And getting involved in it and perhaps being the only time, you know, the last several days that I've felt any - 
THERAPIST: Felt any responsiveness to someone else (inaudible at 0:40:53.7).
CLIENT: Yeah. And then, you know, I did then. I lost my train of thought.
THERAPIST: Yeah. But you were (inaudible at 0:41:03.6). I sense you were, like you talk (inaudible at 0:41:09.8) you were going to make a connection to what you told me just [then] (ph), which was kind of lack of your sensitivity and responsiveness to other people. And before that I think we touched on is that what you do with your own emotions in terms of not, you know, thinking it's bad to have them. It's kind of like somehow, like you don't feel that I want to show my emotions, but it kind of also it has an effect (inaudible at 0:41:40.1) to other people, their feelings.
CLIENT: Um-hmm. I, I, I shouldn't get (inaudible at 0:41:52.8) thing I'm sort of thinking is that I'm sort of [a wreck] (ph), although [loss through the] (ph) (inaudible at 0:42:03.3) for what an emotion is, for feeling things. Like right now I guess I don't know, I guess right now I don't know what it is to feel love, or hate, or anything. I mean it's just - 
THERAPIST: (Inaudible at 0:42:27.5) feel something very strongly and [might come] (ph) as a very, like the feelings are a very clear resonating thing, you know, and you know. It's like you [don't know that] (ph).
CLIENT: Um-hmm.
THERAPIST: It's like it kind of makes you feel sad.
CLIENT: Well I was just thinking that, you know, all those things are just sort of unidentifiable to [right now] (ph), sort of, indistinguishable, something like that. Maybe just because I (inaudible at 0:43:17.5) with depression.
THERAPIST: Yeah, I kind of sense that, you know, the kind of feeling that you're feeling now it's kind of like generalized, it's not specific, but it's numbing, it's [down] (ph), and it's absence of other things too. And like you can have this strong emotion that really wells up, like the despair, the sadness, the sorrow, kind of just [generating] (ph) the last couple of days [you're] (ph) feeling like you're empty and down. Is it an empty kind of feeling?
CLIENT: I don't know. I mean I don't even know (inaudible at 0:44:03.8) to be empty.
THERAPIST: Can you think of anyway to describe what it-words to put on what it's like? (Inaudible at 0:44:15.7).
CLIENT: Actually very overwhelmed. You know like I've been able to go to the library for the last two days and start writing a paper dealing with chemical [things like that] (ph). And when I think about the way I feel (inaudible at 0:44:37.3) like I feel very tight inside. I'm sort of scared of what I'm going to feel in the future.
THERAPIST: Yeah, that's what I'm wondering, is (inaudible at 0:44:58.7) when you say you're overwhelmed, does it feel overwhelmed or feel like it could eventually be overwhelming? Do you see what I mean, the difference?
CLIENT: Yeah. I don't know.
THERAPIST: (Inaudible at 0:45:10.7) I'll feel overwhelmed. Like if I let it up like I just sob for hours, I mean is that kind of [what you're feeling] (ph)?
CLIENT: (Inaudible at 0:45:20.3)?
THERAPIST: Yeah. Kind of (inaudible at 0:45:23.1).
CLIENT: I don't know. I don't think so. I was just, I guess I've begun to wonder if like the experiences over the last two weeks, you know, really, really have done something (inaudible at 0:45:45.0) to me.
THERAPIST: Um-hmm. (Inaudible at 0:45:49.1).
CLIENT: Yeah. Yeah, I begin to become frightened about it. And I guess that's what's kind of carrying this, you know, overwhelming feeling, carrying it on, beyond (inaudible at 0:46:01.5).
THERAPIST: Kind of like you kind of look at yourself [I still fell] (ph) depressed, I still feel bitchy, what has this done to me? Making it (inaudible at 0:46:10.0).
CLIENT: [Do] (ph) something?
THERAPIST: Yeah, making it do something.
CLIENT: Yeah. Yeah, I guess it does.
THERAPIST: (Inaudible at 0:46:15.7) worrying about it, wondering about it that makes it (inaudible).
CLIENT: Um-hmm. Yeah. Yeah. Like it's sort of like - 
THERAPIST: It makes it come true like a (inaudible at 0:46:25.7).
CLIENT: Um-hmm. Yeah, I think that's what's, sort of seems like's happening. I don't know. and I, I guess that's what's sort of most scary because I felt sort of good after getting things out Sunday night, you know, after spending really hours crying. And then erratically they came back to me on Monday. I guess mostly when I had to be with people. And like, I slept about two hours last night, two or three hours last night, and I was up at five o'clock, and I'm just sort of now getting tired, but it's-I wasn't going to go to my class this morning, but I went. And part of that hour (inaudible at 0:47:26.6) three hours [sitting there] (ph) I felt like tears welling up inside of me, you know. And I was with people.
THERAPIST: Yeah, there's some, yeah, there's-I really hear you saying there's something about being with people that really kind of brings those feelings up, you know, it makes me feel like I just want to be away, I want to withdraw, pull the covers over my head.
CLIENT: Um-hmm. Um-hmm. Yeah. Yeah, it does. I don't know what else you would say about it except yeah, I guess I don't feel like being with people, or around them, you know, in their presence or anything. You know I guess I've thought of that and I...
END TRANSCRIPT
