TRANSCRIPT OF AUDIO FILE:
______________________________________________________________________________
BEGIN TRANSCRIPT:
COUNSELOR: This is the 8th interview. June 1st.
CLIENT: I really did I just really have. I'm very discouraged. The paper I've been working on is just so (inaudible). And I have a gut feeling that I could accomplish more if I do. Pull myself together for (inaudible) talking about it is very simple. As soon as I ask any questions that are in any way warranted toward neurology, biochem, any of that, I just want to know but I don't know. And I don't know 90 percent, I don't know 90 percent of the procedures and (inaudible) my reading, and I've forgotten my gee I never had it in four years, and I don't know 90 percent of the stuff we do – controlling the experiments, checking to see if the (inaudible) counteract in the – I don't know. I don't know what the effects are, I don't know comparisons that . the whole segment of the studies are working towards drawing a comparison between the compound (inaudible and epinephrine. And I can't take a crash course in neurology to know, to be able to criticize and be able to understand where they are drawing the comparison. And if they are in any way valid.
COUNSELOR: So that is like saying you don't have the language or the vocabulary at all to (inaudible).
CLIENT: Right I don't have the base, it is more than just vocabulary.
COUNSELOR: Right, or what it means.
CLIENT: I don't have, I just don't have the whole neurological background.
COUNSELOR: But that (inaudible) that you're ignorant.
CLIENT: I'm stuck in a position where I'm supposed to be knowledgeable, and (inaudible).
COUNSELOR: You mean you are expected to …
CLIENT: I'm expected to give a presentation, answer all questions in the form, the time, the class, refresh myself especially because (inaudible) doesn't know anything about consequences and keep on saying, oh wow I'm so glad you are going to do this. I really want to hear what you have to say, this is going to be so interesting. And I keep on saying, ‘Yeah I'm really interested in hearing what I have to say too'.
COUNSELOR: You mean he is expecting something…
CLIENT: Oh he is expecting something really first rate. He is expecting something really interesting and something that will give him a great deal of background and knowledge so that I can really know the 50 odd basic studies and then hand in my paper and he will now have some information on (inaudible).
So this is one review I now have found interesting. Here is this kid, she's going to do all the work, she's going to synthesize it, great, I'm really going to use that.
I can't synthesize it. I'm just really not comprehending it. And I'm, I looked through my notes and I thought nice little file, it should be getting bigger and bigger and bigger. And so much of it, I kid you not, it is almost verbatim from the report instead of assimilating and putting it together. I've got too much, because I hear important things and I don't synthesize them and I don't tie them together, (inaudible).
But the whole thing is now there, I'm not assimilating it and coming out with it myself, I'm trying to copy at a furious rate, like six reports a day. And I'm finally beginning to make to make the (inaudible) connections, I know some of them cross-index to particular, see this study, see this report. So only recently I've got three weeks worth of work from before that I haven't done that with. But I can't remember the stuff because I'm just reading so many, there is so much, that if it weren't for the review articles I would be … what I may end up doing is simply the review work, just one that I think is excellent and showing it in. Kind of slanting it the way I want to sort of using the material that I've got, coming out in my own language.
COUNSELOR: Do you see that as some sort of (inaudible)
CLIENT: Yeah I see that as a kind of plagiarism, but what I'm doing in essence is writing my own review article because I picked the broad topic across the (inaudible). I haven't – I still haven't narrowed it down purposely to see what I accomplished and I'm not coming out with anything.
I think I'm beginning to have a vague idea of how I'm going to fly out the prism paper. And obviously I need to (inaudible). Slant a bit more to tores (ph) and reproductive effect but there are tons of other things. All of them I am not confident to deal with but none of which do I want to review on. And I've got this problem because I could just say cross the (inaudible) of reproduction, tadah, tadah. But the important thing about them it seems to be is that they pop up in all these strange places. They have all these weird functions and (inaudible)
COUNSELOR: So you could restrict it and I guess you mean you could restrict it to that thing and you could kind of do that. You could do that, but you really don't want to.
CLIENT: Right, I kind of (inaudible).
COUNSELOR: Disarm?
CLIENT: Well not disarm…
COUNSELOR: I mean (inaudible) but the subject is.
CLIENT: It is not dishonest but it is kind of cheating, it's taking the easy way out instead of doing the study. Doing the paper the way it should be done.
COUNSELOR: Not doing the paper.
CLIENT: Right, it is kind of saying, well I don't know this stuff so I will just pretend that I never looked at it and … But at the same time as soon as I open my mouth in that class well some of the central nervous system stuff I'm going to get shot down, I mean immediately. I am going to be questioned. People are going to ask about techniques, and that is it, I'm finished. I'm not in the know, or I'll find I'm only going to be able to parrot what they did without any comprehension or any kind of real discussion.
And I just don't see how I can either get into this position where it is obvious that I'm going into but at the same time not treat the subject fully.
COUNSELOR: And not treating fully, and by not treating fully you mean restricting the topic. So your options there are two options. And the one is either add the retreating thing, which you consider to do.
CLIENT: Fine but limited, and really not what I set out to do (inaudible).
COUNSELOR: Would you change it – you mean it would be a change of plan but it would also be not doing what is expected.
CLIENT: Right. I'm not quite sure what he expects but (inaudible). It might be possible to limit the presentation to deal with, but I don't know what he does with the paper, so that may also be foolish. (laughter)
COUNSELOR: And the other option is something that sounds to me like an equally inadequate treatment of fact. (inaudible) of the courses to be able to talk about all those techniques and really can't. (overlapping) paper and have it come through at the presentation.
CLIENT: Yeah, the sticky thing is now I'm needing (inaudible) symposium at Johns Hopkins (inaudible) so the neural and the endrochronological comparison and pulling it into the effects of the reproductive (inaudible).
COUNSELOR: So you're screwed, that can't…
CLIENT: I am screwed. I am like really finished. I can't do it, I just can't assimilate it – I don't understand what the fuck they are talking about especially at 2:30 last night. I just threw my hands and went to bed. I just couldn't… I got up to a certain point in the article. I got to the technique, everything they were doing it was fine as long as it was working with (inaudible) some part of the reproductive tract I know what they're doing. But as soon as they hit the discussion to try to explain why what was doing how, I was finished. I was just totally finished. And it seems to me that that is really important for my paper.
That I have to be able to understand it, that I have to be able to present that, and I have to be able to do a critical evaluation of these particular groups of studies which are very important in literature. They are always studied. I can't… I'm just really screwed.
And I don't even have any place to go to ask for help. The people I'd ask for help that I've kind of gotten some help from are basically the graduate students in the course. But they can't be expected to do as much help as I need, what I need basically is a crash course. And if I get someone to sit down and look at these studies with me, and say, ‘Ah this means this, this, this and this'.
COUNSELOR: You mean a translation…
CLIENT: Right. I need a translation and kind of also some assimilation with general rules and knowledge and so forth. Somebody to kind of translate and say, yes, this is valid, this is not valid for the following reasons, which I can say, well from reproduction, etc, etc. But I'm not making the connection I need based on the translation.
What I'd basically have to do is ask somebody to read about 10 studies with me and figure it out. I can't do that.
First of all I have until Thursday, and secondly there is nobody I can ask.
COUNSELOR: (inaudible)
CLIENT: It is not like the course is light. If this were an undergraduate sort of course you could probably say, ‘Well..' right there. But the person who TA'd the undergraduate course is one of the graduate students. And (inaudible) as far as the books and you need references (inaudible) all right what is microbiology, the entire class kind of works with you. Kind of gives me two or three definitions until there is something I comprehend, and they agree on the definition, that is another key positive. But they've been really nice to me. But I can't ask somebody in essence to do my work for me, which is kind of how it feels with me. And I kind of feel like I'm in a situation where I totally (inaudible)
COUNSELOR: (inaudible)
CLIENT: Right, you don't really, rather nobody expects that I wouldn't be able to do it. It just doesn't register
COUNSELOR: Oh yeah there is no simple – I guess you are also saying that it is not simply that they all expect it, but then in a way you put across that notion of yourself.
CLIENT: Right, yeah. And that is how I got into the graduate course. They thought I could do the work.
COUNSELOR: And you're saying you thought you could do the work but you needed to get out and (inaudible)
CLIENT: Well I did (inaudible) I also did really, really top notch in the undergraduate course, which in many ways is on a totally different level. Like a have a comprehension of the things that he says we did cover in the undergraduate course, and I have the greatest comprehension of the graduate course, but I'm getting off, I really at this point know sexual behavior to a certain degree. And reproductive functions. But I'm no longer dealing strictly in that. I'm dealing in a lot of things which I just don't have the background for. And I don't have a graduate student knowledge, just a very thorough undergraduate knowledge of it. I don't have (inaudible) I need too many other disciplines to really get into the whole thing.
But I really don't know what to do. Except you know to come to (inaudible).
I really am frightened, physically frightened of Thursday, of getting up and making a total ass of myself. Which is not a pleasant expectation at all.
COUNSELOR: And that is the thing about losing that …
CLIENT: Which I'd very much be able to want to do. I'm also afraid that my fear will snowball into panic because I won't be able to work, won't be able to turn out any (inaudible) at all. I mean not even in the class summation at least.
Because that is what usually happens (inaudible) kind of like throw something through a window just leave and take off. Not finish the quarter just not do it. Because as soon as I finish the presentation I have to—I'm two books behind with take home exams and I have to do Thursday through Tuesday. I'm a book behind in my other course because I've been working on this report which isn't coming through right. And it is due on Tuesday. And after I finish those two I have to write a paper. And this is totally ignoring the other things that are half done and (inaudible)
But I seem to have spent all my time on this one thing and it is just not coming true.
COUNSELOR: You mean (inaudible)
CLIENT: Right. Well I needed the previous but even that is not healthy I am coming to really incapable of accomplishing what I have to accomplish. I really feel. I know so I guess that somehow or other I will manage to level through the quarter, but at this point I really don't see how. It is really going to be torture.
COUNSELOR: Just in terms of the amount of work.
CLIENT: Right. And the amount of work and time.
COUNSELOR: I'm still having trouble figuring out just what you're problem with the (inaudible) . I mean I understand the (inaudible) everyone expects you to be a (inaudible). You are not willing to do a paper that you could (inaudible)
CLIENT: Not even close. At this time, at this point I'm not even sure I could do that paper accurately because of my most recent meetings between the correlation and (inaudible) and I know (inaudible) after that I'm finished.
So that even if I were restrict at this point, it seems even if I were to restrict my paper it just wouldn't help. I would not be able to come to in any way to a valid solution, because I'd just be dropping this whole segment of the works now being done and the most recent things being thought about the things I'm saying. (inaudible)
So even that I think is probably (inaudible). And I just wouldn't keep reading. That is my approach to the whole problem is to just push myself to read. The more I read the less I know, and the more I read the more I should further read – you know going back and finding out what was going on (inaudible) to finding out that I'm missing an essential step. But it is kind of important but it leads me off somewhere else. And we're backtracking.
COUNSELOR: Then why do you feel that reading more is going to help you then, if you saying that all it does is get you more confused?
CLIENT: Well you see the problem is it is not going to help me more, but the reason that I've left for myself to (inaudible) basically are the two, three (inaudible). I just have to know them, they are really important to the literature. There are very important things in there, and most of the theoretical discussions ..
COUNSELOR: Yeah I'm not urging that you don't read them, I'm understanding..
CLIENT: It is just that all the theoretical thinking all the thinking that I need, more than the experiments themselves and all the synthesizing and what happened between various branches is done in these readings. I have to have them noted into that. (inaudible at 0:36:52.4)
COUNSELOR: So they haven't' been doing your job for you.
CLIENT: No they are not doing anything for me except totally freaking me out. At the same time I have to read.
COUNSELOR: Do you understand nothing of them?
CLIENT: Yeah. I understand some of them. I do get some good things out of them, but I realized that they are the meat, the heart of the subject that I'm researching and to ignore them is a quarter treatment of the material.
COUNSELOR: You can't pretend they are not there.
CLIENT: Right I can't pretend they are not there. And if I could understand them I could get a lot of insight into what I was reading.
COUNSELOR: Okay but you are in a position where neither of those alternatives is going to come through for you so you have to read them, and you also say you will not be able to understand very much of them. It would be.. and you kind of sketched out two alternatives. It would be nice if you could ignore them, you can't do that. It would be wonderful if you could understand them and since in fact the whole field is on the basis of it. Right?
Now what about the place where you are which is neither of those. Which is a place where you can't go (inaudible)
CLIENT: Well what I'm trying to do is to use them to get as much out of them as I can. To take whatever references I can get my grubby little paws on and do as much background reading and try and break through. Okay I'm not going to totally understand and synthesize, but I may get some gist of what they are talking about. At which point I could go back to the experiments or try and pull something together.
And it is usually that feeling where I can do it but it is very, very frustrating and incredibly discouraging. To have to go through this line by line, like I'm pulling teeth. And still being very unsure of what I'm getting out of it. But doing the best I can at this point, I think, but still finding like my depth is just totally inadequate.
COUNSELOR: Yeah and having to work so hard at it even to get the small amount that you are getting.
CLIENT: And I've come to the point where when I cut my reading time or it seems like review (inaudible) because I've got all my basic background on the physiological and biological (inaudible) the compounds that I (inaudible) on just what it is doing and what they are looking for. But theoretically (inaudible)
It really is what is most important. Like somebody else gave a presentation today on the totally unrelated and no logical and (inaudible) and I'm just not (inaudible) .
And I am going to go (inaudible) but I'm very hesitant to do that. It would reduce my (inaudible). I just feel very, very down about the whole thing.
COUNSELOR: What about the altercation that you had with him over recreation that you want (inaudible)
CLIENT: Any way I want to I'm even (inaudible) is really important to me because it is the course I am most interested in. And the strange thing about the paper is the type of paper that I'll be rewriting for the next four years and each time I hit a class that requires a certain type of paper I'll trot this one out and I'll read it through and read it again and I'll just change the front of the whole paper.
Biochem paper I'll use it, neurological paper I'll use it. Use this for (inaudible). Oh, any kind of paper I can think of because the compound comes up so much, or pops up so many places anyway. So it actually is going to be fruitful if I do a basically good paper to begin with. That will certainly make things much easier later on. But I've got this problem (inaudible)
COUNSELOR: I'm going to ask you about what you referred to about you are frightened about feeling your presentation and imagining, about that whole thing. But what in it is …
CLIENT: Well basically that if five other guys in the course, that my lack of background and my ignorance will be shown up. I will be asked questions that I'm not going to be able to deal with.
Well what happens then is kind of pretty embarrassing situation with most of the people. Before me it kind of go down as they realize that I don't know what I'm talking about – maybe we shouldn't ask any question.
COUNSELOR: Wait, what does that mean? A socially difficult situation.
CLIENT: In academically embarrassing situation. Socially difficult doesn't mean anything (inaudible) but it is academically embarrassing. In some way it is – It makes me look very young and foolish. And also it tends to make me look stupid. I ‘d rather not look stupid. Also I would very much like, because I'm on very good terms with Mel Johnson. I want to work in his lab and it is definitely a plus to have the head of the department on your side, so he could be a help if I could do well.
The presentation has to continue to maintain what I hope at this point is a fairly good opinion of me. I'd rather not have him saying, ‘Well she's a nice kid but she's frankly dumb if she doesn't even know what she's talking about, look at her presentation it is pretty poor and very not together. She couldn't answer any question.'
I'd rather not set myself up in a situation where I will be patronized – well she tried but she was an undergraduate, she… just don't ask any questions (inaudible)
COUNSELOR: You don't want to be what, tolerated?
CLIENT: Yeah, I'd rather pay my own way. Yeah and I'm also afraid kind of at the end of it that I'm just going to have this terrible feeling that I really blew it and I'm just going to go into this massive depression.
COUNSELOR: What would it mean that you just went to the bathroom.
CLIENT: I just really needed the bathroom presentation. That is doesn't live up to any of expectations either. And then I'll that I excluded myself from getting any favorable way. And that I spent the last month and a half totally working like a dog and getting nothing out of it. And maybe I really am not very smart and maybe I am (inaudible).
COUNSELOR: (inaudible)
CLIENT: (inaudible) the trouble is getting time, but I actually don't have the time to sleep. And I feel like (inaudible). It also ties in to feelings of resentment that I wish I didn't have to have worked less with him and (inaudible).
And kind of finding if I didn't have to work, or if I didn't have to work as much then my other subject would be okay. (inaudible)
I feel kind of angry at myself for making myself be in this position.
COUNSELOR: Well I guess that means that you should have done decently.
CLIENT: That I should have been able to … I'm not quite sure how. And what made me furious with my parents is that I don't want to (inaudible)…
COUNSELOR: (inaudible)
CLIENT: … so when the alarm went off I had (inaudible). He keeps on talking to me that he couldn't get a job, which is pretty funny because I'm really tired. Two months ago he promised me that by the end of April he would have a job. He didn't go out and start looking until April. By June everybody else would have hit the streets. Alright I said, end of June fine, he'll started going into that him not having a job and me having to work and all that, and I was really carefully avoiding not getting being hung up myself that I have to work and he wasn't doing anything.
I (inaudible) end of April but I don't have a job, but don't worry, the money would have dumped you first, I'll have a job by… And he keeps every week, he keeps on saying that he's going to get a job, that now he is going to start looking. I mean, I get frustrated. I don't know what to do.
Except he did, he (inaudible) and he said, ‘Well what were you planning to do, and he would say, ‘Blah, blah, blah…'. And I would say, ‘Well…' . Kind of give a little reassurance without pushing. I gave him that.
What we are basically going to do is take one particular look at, people in D. C. were working themselves commercial (inaudible), and sending letters and resumes and saying that he should call and make an appointment. And he was going to do that when (inaudible) and like he has, he is supposed to teach an extension course and he's had acquaintance with the. school, you know high school. That is a course like half arranged, and he is has a half fulfilled book (inaudible).
He never made it and got there and she'd already left. Incredibly totally asinine shit. At the same time panicking and trying to get rid of money woes, and he's not going to have a job. Look the only job he does have is to totally fritter his time away. Like a woman called this morning and said, ‘I haven't seen you where the hell are you, are you still teaching the course?' I don't know what to do. But I want him to – like we went and bought him a suit goddamnit (ph) – all the excuses he had about not going out to find a job had simply been eradicated. It was just not there anymore. He wrote the article he had to write (inaudible). He had to write for the Sun Times, (inaudible). He has the book review that he is doing that is due tomorrow. So as of tomorrow that will be out of the way and that is not an excuse either.
Now he wants to go out and buy a sports jacket (inaudible) and he keeps on saying that I'm trying to put pressure on him. ‘I'll have a job, I'll go out I promise you and look for a job, and before long you won't have to work'. It didn't matter to me before and now I'm getting really kind of furious. I'm really tired of giving him the reassurance – like that is okay, or yes I'm sure you'll find a job, and all that kind of shit – and not having him do fucking anything but carry on about it.
COUNSELOR: You're bored with it.
CLIENT: Yeah I'm really bored with it. I just wish he would get off his ass and get, you know if he was going to look for a job, look for a job. You know people ask him, what are you doing, and he says, this and that and this and that, and looking for a film job. And every time I hear him say that I want to turn around and say, ‘You think so but you're not. You're not doing anything there.'
COUNSELOR: I just wanted you to the point that (inaudible) he kind of dropped the paper thing, very quick you just changed the subject and I didn't know exactly what was going on with that.
CLIENT: (inaudible) such a dead end. Done with talking about it.
COUNSELOR: You mean done with …
CLIENT: Just something I have to do. I mean in some way or another I'll manage to do it. I kind of feel that I hit the limit of my talking about it and sort of benefits. Because there is a limit to how much I can talk about it instead of just going to go back and trying to do anything. I still feel basically that what I have to do is keep on trying to do it and hope to get the insight to do as much defining of terms and getting facts on it as I can, and pulling something together.
It hits me that at this point when the things you do in two days I haven't had a choice but (inaudible)
COUNSELOR: So kind of talking about it is more …
CLIENT: Kind of (inaudible) that I kind of needed to talk about it and realize this is what I'm doing, like see what I was doing before.
But I am also very worried about Murphy.
COUNSELOR: You don't sound, you haven't said anything that sounded worried yet to me. (overlapping)
CLIENT: Well I'm impatient, but also what I'm very much afraid is what will happen is that he's going to hochkey (ph) around and fuck around a little more. And then he's going to go out and start looking for a job and he's not going to find one because he's fucked around so goddamn long.
That he's right, yeah he's right. This year's graduating class is hitting the streets. All the kids are starting jobs with the industry and exactly at the same moment that he's going to get his ass of the ground and his playboy job ran out in March. And he could have taken March (inaudible) he could have gotten himself together somewhere around the end of April beginning of May when he said he was going to and he didn't. And I'm just very careful not to put that kind of pressure on him.
Like occasionally I'd remind him that he wanted to do such and such, and he'll do one part of it and that's it. But I could spend my time continually nagging him to get these things done, and possibly, they would probably get done. But I refuse to be responsible for disciplining him. I refuse to say to him every morning, ‘How many letters and resume's have you sent out? Did you do it, did you bother? Don't you want a job?'
I don't want to be his mother. And at the same time I can see where he is going to end up being totally fucked up. In that – oh my god I didn't do and here I am I failed you, and I'm not supporting you and you still have to work hard, and I don't have a job and I'm a failure'. And he has brought it on himself but I'm going to have to deal with it, and at this point I'm…
COUNSELOR: You mean you're going to have to listen to all his regrets?
CLIENT: Right and I'll also have to give him some reassurance about – oh no you're not a failure, and yes you will find a job. And at this point I really don't know if I want to do that shit. Because I'm very impatient with him, and I'm really impatient with him with listening to him say – I'm going to get a job – and so forth.
And then I'm going to have to go through the whole thing of pulling him, helping him stay together while he's looking for a job and possibly not finding it, and when he says – oh my god I should have looked two months ago – all I could say is, ‘You're damn straight you should have'. I'm very much afraid that I'm not going to be very reassuring, I'm going to be very impatient.
And that would make it very hard for him (inaudible). Because it is going to be very hard for him when he starts looking for a job because he's very insecure about it, it is going to be very hard to find one, and I don't feel at this point able to give him the help and reassurance that he needs.
COUNSELOR: Because you don't think he deserves that.
CLIENT: Yeah and a lot of support. That if he can't help himself …
COUNSELOR: But you aren't as comfortable inside.
CLIENT: No I'm not because I (inaudible) and I really do. He's very good to me in detecting when I'm feeling down and stressed out about things and helping me around (inaudible). And I feel a real kind of death, I'm impatient to help him, I do want to help him and I want to see him get through this. I want to see him get a job. I want to see him think well of himself.
But at the moment what I've been feeling is impatience because I don't want to see him just getting himself into this sticky stupid situation with complications. Okay if he had started looking for a job a month or two earlier he might end up in the same situation of ‘I can't find a job' and all these things; but there would be fewer complications to it.
Like now there is the added complication of ‘oh I'm such a jerk, I didn't start sooner, maybe I would have got a job if I'd started two months earlier'. My father just continually I mean his entire life is – if ten years ago I had, I would be'. And I can't stand it. And if he does it I am really just liable to come out with a, ‘Yes you are a total idiot, you are a complete failure, you're just worth nothing'. That would be pretty devastating.
COUNSELOR: Could you believe that?
CLIENT: No I don't believe that.
COUNSELOR: (inaudible)
CLIENT: Well I do believe it in flashes when I get really impatient with him. When he really does carry on a long time about not having a job and (inaudible). How he is so sorry that he doesn't have a job and how he feels guilty that he doesn't have a job. And all these weeks later he still hasn't looked for a job.
I had finally got to this point where it didn't hang me up very much, until he started harping on it. Then I had managed to unfocus my resentment from him. I no longer resented him. I no longer said that he was the source of all my frustrations and my hassles and having to work. And kind of located it where I think is much more valid, on my parents, and to some degree on myself for not coordinating the situation I am in, like it or not, very well.
And now he is kind of making me look back at him and …
COUNSELOR: He's saying you should blame him.
CLIENT: Right. And he is kind of debasing himself and making himself wormy and whiney. And when he acts wormy and whiney I tend to think of him as wormy and whiney. Which is when I act bitchy, he tends to think of me as bitchy. I really wish he wouldn't. I really don't want him to act that way, I don't want him to think of himself that way. It is very awful.
But if he does it long enough and well enough it is impossible for me to just kind of gush warmth and love and support and strength and then make him back into a man, which is what he's asking in a way. ‘If you love me then I must be good'. And it is very self-defeating because it can go on forever instead of the strength coming from within him.
And I tend to handle it terribly. I tend to neither cut him off, nor give him more space I tend to kind of neutral and do it trying to reassure him in a half-ass way that makes him feel that I'm not being open with him and I'm lying to him. That I really do think he's a worm but I won't tell him. And it just gets just terribly hideous.
Especially right now when I'm so worried about this damn paper. That to have to sit and reassure him that one day he'll get a job when he starts looking, there is so many demands on my time, and he's just kind of shlukking (ph) around the house writing the damn review which he will have finished by tomorrow. He'll get $55 for it and that will be all. But he is getting to the thing where he doesn't know what to do with himself. He's been very bored and he's getting restless. And he's depending on me again for kind of his entertainment. Less so than before, really a lot less so, but I can see it – him depending on me for his emotional stuff.
COUNSELOR: And what do you think of that?
CLIENT: I think that is okay if it is… To some extent we take our energies from how we perceive each other. When he thinks low of me, I have a tendency to think, well (inaudible). And that is good to a certain point, as long as I don't become centered strictly on how he feels about me.
On the other hand I would like to think that he has a certain, you know, kind of sense of self, and sense of self worth. Apart from when I have a sense of himself, his world. Because when I'm not right there he is okay.
COUNSELOR: But that is like saying that you wish you weren't as needed for that sort of function.
CLIENT: Right yeah. Or needs me differently. The whole awful thing so is when he gets into these trips about how useless he is and that he tries to get a job. There is a 90 percent chance that he's not going to get a job because if he thinks of himself as useless then he presents himself as useless. And he just really doesn't have the ability to kind of sell himself to get a job.
COUNSELOR: So you kind of are in the position of seeing him do this thing you consider very selfish and that is not going to help any.
CLIENT: And it is just making me feel worse and weaker and it hurts him on the job market. And I just (inaudible). And to sit down and talk with him about it where he'll take me on these guilt trips—I realize that I can't now because I have a cold, and I've wanted to and then the sometimes thing came through and then something happened with the script and I'm willing to work on it some more.
COUNSELOR: Well that doesn't sound like a guilt trip to me that sound like (inaudible)
Of course you don't want him to make excuses and since he has excuses …
CLIENT: But he knows to get the kind of guilt when he talks about this. He feels kind of guilty and he apologizes to me. He kind of prefers excuses why he didn't do it to make sure they are valid or (inaudible). We both do this, we both do this to one another, it's just like getting both of us.
COUNSELOR: What do you talk about?
CLIENT: Kind of in some sense not being the standby—and well this is what I've done. And I did it for the following reasons, and I realize it is going to have the following outcome. And I do it now. I've just done it. I am going to have to handle it. And my fear is that he's not going to handle it. And he is going to get totally enmeshed in the consequences of what he's done and that it is just going to become a disruptive and in no way constructive or (inaudible). Rather than saying, ‘Well I wasted, or I've spent differently all of this time that I should have spent looking for a job. I'm not going to let that mess me up. I'm going to out and look for a job.'
‘I'm not going to get frightened because I'm too late and if I don't find a job I'm not going to blame it on this and I'm not going to… I'm going to take a good view of the situation and I'm going to act from that viewpoint. Rather than let everything I've done before trip me up'. Which is I'm afraid is happening when he continues doing that, and he just ends up no job, no nothing totally. Low self esteem.
And the end result is pulling an enormous amount of support from me and looking for a comfort and needing it and not being able to just help himself. And I used to produce that kind of thing. I don't anymore, I don't respond positively to that in any large dose.
COUNSELOR: Do you know why?
CLIENT: Yeah. I can do it. Like I (inaudible) but when it comes to giving him protracted weeks of unadulterated support; yes you are a man, yes you can go out and get a job, yes you are intelligent, yes you are worthy. I can't do it anymore. It is just incredibly draining, and I don't want to get into this situation where I have to.
COUNSELOR: (inaudible)
CLIENT: What is bad about it is that I react …
COUNSELOR: You don't like having to do that.
CLIENT: I like having to do it, I see instances where it should be done, it's necessary. And I want myself at least so many times to respond in this way. And I feel a debt and obligation in that Terry usually responds to me in that way. But I no longer seem to be responding to him in that way, and it's freaking him. And he harps upon it.
COUNSELOR: And he kind of views what you should be able to do from the point of whenever he needs that whenever he doesn't feel that he does.
CLIENT: Kind of. I don't want to become kind of his sole source of support. And kind of, I would rather not be his sense of self I would rather be his comfort when things trouble him, to give him comfort, yes support, but not in (inaudible at 0:23:28.6)
And not, oh my god what will I do, I'll go to Ann, she'll make me feel better, she loves me, good she loves me.
COUNSELOR: But you told me one thing you don't like about that (inaudible at 0:23:48.0) is just that it is (inaudible) is that it?
CLIENT: That feeling definitely that maybe I should be strong that way and supporting him always, but I don't. Possibly a (inaudible)
COUNSELOR: And not want to support him.
CLIENT: (inaudible). Yet I feel increasingly that (inaudible). I think the two of us are extremely at ease and much more secure with other issue. Like (inaudible).
And I kind of feel the relationship is much stronger and much better. And so I'm troubled because I thought I won't respond as positively to him as I wish in consideration of what he is bringing to my life and my job.
COUNSELOR: (inaudible)
CLIENT: I think it has been really good (inaudible).
COUNSELOR: And it's now (inaudible).
CLIENT: What happens is he gets a poor opinion of himself, I get a poor opinion of him. He then takes action which causes me to think (inaudible) but I'm in a situation where I can't come out and reveal myself. I can't.
COUNSELOR: How come?
CLIENT: It would be, it would be terribly unkind. Because the type of assumptions he's making about himself are not – I am at the moment unworthy, I am at the moment not a good person, I am no good, I am incompetent, my life is a failure and will continue to be a failure, I can't find a job, I'm no good for nothing, and I'm not intelligent, I'm a mistake, permanently.
For me to come out and say, ‘You're right. You're a jerk, you are totally incompetent, you are unmanly…'.
A permanent condemnation.
COUNSELOR: Well if you agree with the thing that you don't believe in, then well you don't believe that.
CLIENT: No.
COUNSELOR: On the other hand it seems like he's been saying you do believe that when he does some things they are kind of jerk-ish things to do in a kind of restricted sense. And at that moment, at these moments, he is the person he is at those moments.
CLIENT: Right.
COUNSELOR: (inaudible at 0:28:19.6) On the other hand (inaudible at 0:28:15.6) seems to me that it would be unkind to agree with him just so he can leave you alone.
CLIENT: You know when you, we mean a great deal to each other (inaudible at 0:28:36.4), which in some ways is definitely an emotion reaction I am feeling that he's not handling the situation. My kind of shitting on him too would hamper him, not facilitate his (inaudible at 0:28:56.8) to get it.
COUNSELOR: So is that another kind of analysis, well it wouldn't work …
CLIENT: I am kind of unsure whether it would work or not whether or not – would never directly try it. Never said, ‘Well as a principle I don't feel you're that way, but you certainly are that way when you act that way.' Usually what I've done is give sort of a luke-warm responses to be kind of picked up in passing and just kind of hurt and resentful, and I become reassuring. It kind of turns into a game.
COUNSELOR: What game? By game I guess you mean a pattern.
CLIENT: A pattern kind of like, he'll make great demands on me to reassure him and I'll kind of reassure him half-heartedly, so he'll make great demands on me to once again to reassure him more strongly (inaudible)
COUNSELOR: (inaudible)
CLIENT: Right which …(inaudible) He feels I haven't given him enough support.
COUNSELOR: (inaudible)
CLIENT: But if I loved him I would just feel (inaudible) that I wouldn't have to fake it. I'm afraid that if I tell him it won't be constructive anymore. I could continue to encourage him, I don't think of you like that, only when you act that way. It is just I'm not sure how constructive that would sound (inaudible)
COUNSELOR: (inaudible)
CLIENT: Well it seems to me that he's in a situation where he's going to break down and he's (inaudible) the desired solution to the situation would be that he kind of get himself together so he is better able to job hunt and is able to land a job. Because if he has a job you don't get into the situation that he is insecure about getting a job. That is kind of the desired result.
COUNSELOR: Is the desired result getting himself together in view of the confidence, or is the desired result a job?
CLIENT: Both. First him getting himself together and feeling less helpless.
COUNSELOR: And you're working on the notion that unless he does that he won't be able to get a job.
CLIENT: Or he's more likely to get a job. However the job is kind of a secondary result, basically what I'd like is for him to be together even if he didn't get a job, just be together. Feeling he has personal worth without the external thing of losing his job.
‘Well I didn't get a job this month, but next month because I know what I'm doing and I am capable and that is the way I feel I'll get a job. ‘
And so having the situation of he's really upset and looking down on himself, my response shouldn't be just kind of, nevertheless outpouring of great love and support, yes you are going … and all that thing. But something which enables him to get himself together, not just frustrating for me. And I don't know whether, look at the situation and tell him that at times when he felt that way he usually asks me to reinforce his own (inaudible)
It would help him to pull himself together but it would be just doing one more thing that is making him feel very (inaudible) and unworthy (inaudible). I don't know which way to go. (inaudible)
COUNSELOR: What he's kind of doing is (inaudible) what you do is try to figure out what it is that he's doing to backtrack that (inaudible).
END TRANSCRIPT
