*TEXT-PV010013  Wednesday 9 October 1968   5001 4760   35  206
______________________________________________________________________________
PATIENT: (Silence) I had the funniest sensation when I was waiting out there today.  Uhm, somebody came out and asked some of the people who were waiting outside what they'd have to drink and it just gave me the same feeling that I remember specially in college having when I'd be working during the weekend and everybody else would be out having a good time.  And almost, one of those things I know at college that I would almost have to be aware of it and I wouldn't be able to just forget it and get done what I had to get done.  And it was almost as if I were tormenting myself with being aware of the fact that I was doing something I found unpleasant.  And I suppose in a way that made having somebody ask them what they'd have to drink made me feel this way because of the fact that it suggested a kind of relaxed atmosphere and having a good time, and the fact that I don't feel that relaxed and certainly my mind doesn't turn to times when I feel relaxed when I'm in here.  (Pause)
It's made me think of reaction I often have to parties.  Uhm that often MSCZ would say would you like to go and I don't particularly want to go, for no reason except that it seems like too much effort and yet I will often decide to go because I'm afraid I might miss something.  Even if I expect to have a bad time and sometimes I will because I expect to.  (Pause)
And it's really just true of anything if something is going on that I know about you can't just decide I either want to be in on it or I don't.  I always feel I have to know and be part of it or if people are talking at school I'll stay until the very end even though I might be bored to death with the conversation or tired of it.  And if I leave early I'm always wondering well, what went on after I left, what did I miss, or maybe what was I left out of.  (Silence)
And it's funny today again I had the same feeling I had yesterday that there weren't a lot of things on my mind I had already thought I wanted to talk about and again I had this feeling that I would probably find nothing to say.  (Pause) And it is sort of the way I approach conversations too.  Very often it's, I'm not able to have one unless I've already thought ahead what it is I want to talk about or I won't see a person and spontaneously think about something about them.  I have to, when I'm away from them, and it occurs to me to tell myself I've got to remember to ask them about that particular thing, and —, I know e's z—— laughed at the fact that when he's seen my mother meeting people that are strange to her, she kind of goes through a little routine with certain kinds of questions that you ask a person you don't know, and it's almost like her mind is ticking them off.  (Pause)
I and then, I think of my mind sort of freezing which I sort of feel it does when I think I don't know what to say and then it just kind of freezes.  Uhm last night I was thinking about things that I'd begun to realize when I was here and I couldn't think of anything and it isn't that there wasn't anything.  I just couldn't remember anything and it just panicked me.  What if I can't ever remember them again and what if realizing them at that time isn't going to mean anything, except lost it.  (Clears throat) So the I try to talk myself into feeling that if I could just relax about it they'd probably come back to me at a time I wouldn't even expect it, but somehow I would keep thinking about it again and thinking I've got to remember.  Maybe in a way partly why it bothered me is I'd like to feel that (clears throat) things I realize will change me so that I don't have to actively talk myself into acting in a different way because I realize that my reactions to a situation are, well, not correct according to what other people are feeling and I'd like to be able to react, because that's the way I am, without even having to think about it.  And I just don't have the confidence that acting naturally will be the way I want to be.  I'm sort of confused by it.  (Pause)
ANALYST: Do you wonder why you would have forgotten last night?
PATIENT: Well, I did in a way because it seemed, because, all I can remember is when I had sort of these realizations which, when I have them seem kind of new to me uhm, they just seem suddenly so clear and simple that I thought I'd remember them (chuckle) and then I couldn't remember them and, and you know, I just couldn't understand well, why was that happening.  Because I liked because it had made me feel better to realize them or at least I thought it made me feel better.  (Silence)
I was just wondering how much control you can have over your mind because having felt a little bit freer and happier and, and realizing whatever it is I've forgotten, I would have thought that I would have, my mind would have continued to develop it and I know that there's something going on in my subconscious, at least I accept that this it true and I don't know.  It's just kind of puzzling.  And it's sort of, give you a funny feeling to think that you have absolutely no awareness of your mind doing these things.  Because sometimes your mind seems to be something you can have control over.  (Silence)
Because I know that control over yourself is one of the greatest virtues that my parents see, and I was just thinking it's kind of ironic, that my father had no control over his temper and yet my mother was always talking about how wonderful he was because he had so much self-control and he could make himself work so hard when he had to and, I don't know, mainly to do with his work, I guess.  And then she had quite a temper too so she had to use self-control over that.  (Silence)
I just feel as if I'm at a dead end when I am thinking that I'm (chuckle) not thinking anything and it makes me then wonder what am I actually thinking (chuckle), and I just kind of go around in a cycle.
ANALYST: Well, that is a kind of control, isn't it?  That it at least excludes all the rest of whatever you might think.
PATIENT: To keep thinking I don't know what I'm thinking?  Is that what you were —
ANALYST: Yes, and to have the idea that there isn't anything to think about.  I suppose that, what, what strikes me is that you, you mention again your father's temper and in addition your mother's temper and then you fell silent and then nothing occurs to you.  After saying how much control they had to exercise, your father in a different way than your mother.  So your control of your mind here takes this form many times of nothing coming to your thoughts.
PATIENT: Well, it's funny, because I think I had begun to be honest with myself and realized that was what I was doing at the beginning and I thought now I was feeling free enough so that if a thought came to my mind at least I would allow it there.  And so it's sort of upsetting when you see how you keep you keep kidding yourself.  (Pause) But then my other attempt is to, knowing this is the type of thing I do, stop it, but I don't know (chuckle) how to stop it.  Because, because I'm not aware of whatever it is that I'm trying to put out of my mind.  (Pause)
This made me think of something which is probably again running away from whatever was really there but uhm, I'm I can't even remember if I've already mentioned it.  The feeling that I can't, well, I guess I have, can't approach a topic to somebody that I think will be unpleasant to them.  And I was thinking in particular of the boy whose father's died and uhm, I'll be meeting his mother shortly and the fact that I think I am really afraid of meeting her where we're actually talking because somehow that will be there between us and I've already sent her a note, so, so you know, we don't have to cover that ground but still, we have to at some point acknowledge the fact that her husband is dead and I think I'm going to find this very hard to just sort of face right on and be sort of matter of fact about it.  And I'll sort of feel I have to make all kinds of, well, the word that came to my mind is excuses.
ANALYST: Why?
PATIENT: In her case excuses, in her case it's not excuses but —, well, say little things that would make her feel better and so she won't have to face that her husband is dead, which is ridiculous.  And also I was thinking of the girl who has had some sort of, I guess a nervous breakdown and it's gotten to the point at school that people are going to have to know that something has happened to her and there was a discussion on how to handle this, how much to say.  And I'm not the one who's going to have to say anything.  But it did occur to me that if I were the one, I would find it very hard just to kind of say something simple and frank and matter of fact and then leave it.  And I think my inclination would be just say something that's misleading or say too much in sort of trying to soften the blow.  Soften a blow that may not be a blow; this whole feeling of keeping everything pleasant.
ANALYST: So if you feel you have nothing to say here then does it follow that you're trying to protect me from something unpleasant?
PATIENT: Well, if I were thinking about my father and my mother's temper, or control, I can't see where I'd be protecting you from something unpleasant.  Maybe I was trying to protect myself from something unpleasant.  And also the fact that I chose the word to make excuses in that other case when it really wasn't appropriate is true of something I do do and maybe my saying well, I don't know what to say is in effect making excuses for myself.  Because I do do this or I have a desire to if I don't.  It's the same thing as when I was late and my desire was to start making excuses and when I was practice-teaching, my, my master-teacher pointed out to me at one point that I was constantly making excuses for whatever I did that was wrong.  I couldn't accept that maybe I just made a mistake and that next time I wouldn't, I could improve upon it.  A had to always make an excuse for why I'd done it the way I did.  And I even do this now when I'm teaching and see a mistake I've made, and, and I'm aware of having to tell myself I've got to admit I made a mistake, but then I've always got to add but I was thinking this and that's why I did it.  As if it's going to justify my mistake.  (Pause)
And for some reason I jump from that to thinking about the fact that I've always felt guilty that I don't use my assistant as much as I should.  I'm sort of afraid she'll be better than I am, be more popular with the boys than I am, or, I don't know, just, I'm afraid of her.  And so my defense is to control her, not let her do things.  Again I have to consciously, instead of enjoying her abilities (clears throat) what she can bring to the class and the fact that she can relieve me a great deal, I enjoy keeping her down and then I have to consciously tell myself that this isn't fair and I have to make myself not do it.  (Pause)
I suppose this need to dominate is partly from a feeling of inferiority and it's sort of my defense to, never allow the chance to come so that I can, so that I have to face things.  But then I don't know why I try to dominate MSCZ when I do.  Well, I can see one thing, I think all along he was asking of me to be feminine in a way that I didn't feel I could be.  And I would feel very critical of some types of things that he was asking of me and, and yet on the other hand, they're really things I wanted to be.  Because he really has put more pressure on me than anybody to dress with a little bit of style and take a certain pride in my appearance beyond just being me.  And I used to think well, that's such a superficial thing and, and so must mean he's going to be a terribly superficial and materialistic, if that's the way he feels.  But really that's what I want to be able to do.
And I've noticed this is true too of my mother at times.  When, one time they went on a trip and, to PCHN, and she had her hair done in PBB and it really looked lovely and my father was terribly upset, and I don't know, quite why he was, it wasn't any kind of an extreme hairdo but he just didn't like it at all and he's always liked her best when she's been really plain, wearing no make-up.  Sort of dumpy and dowdy looking and he'll always like these horrible hats that she'd wear, I think mainly to please him and I think if he dressed her he'd have her looking about as ugly as she could look.  And I think she's afraid to try to be stylish at all or whatever it is that she wants to be.  And she made a comment once that MSCZ in particular took note of, I, I at the time didn't think that much about it, but of a type of person who's sort of tall and slender with carriage being an aristocratic kind of person and then people who are sort of short and fat being a peasant type.  And she's short and she has to work very hard not to be fat.  And so she was equating herself with a peasant type and her idea of peasant I suppose carries all sort of connotations for her which are negative.  And you could just see how she longed to be tall and slender and stylish and aristocratic and all those things.  And she has often bemoaned the lack of grace in life today and probably lack of manners and etiquette and it's all part of this aristocratic concept I guess.  But yet when she does things with some formality she never really does them.  It's sort of, I don't know, whether it's because my father really is uncomfortable doing them or whether she just can't, but yet she wants to.  (Silence)
And I think I used to be afraid to live in k and I imagine that's partly why.  Because I had the same reaction of wanting to be something that I was afraid of letting myself try to be.  Perhaps because I was afraid I'd fail at it and I didn't want to know that I was going to fail at it, so I wouldn't even try.  And I wonder how much she's hidden in saying well, your father likes this style and he has good taste or I should really try to please him so I'm not going to do what I think I'd like to do.  I wonder how much she's used that as an excuse for not becoming whatever it is she wants to.  And I was amazed one time my father commented on the fact that when all of us had pretty much moved out of the house so that my mother had a lot of free time on her hands, uhm yet she really was at a loss and the fact that he mentioned it must have meant that she really was terribly depressed or confused about herself or something for a while.
And again it's just another aspect of this need I have just to have set work all the time and no free time to wonder what to do with.  And if I do have free time I never really use it with any direction.  I'll always just kind of putter around or I'll start a project and never finish it.  Because that's what, that's sort of what she's doing too.  She picked up sailing and then she had an excuse for not really developing it and yet she thinks she'd really like to and she probably never will.  And my younger sister is this way too, of never really having direction and what she does with herself, even though she's much freer about using her time the way she wants to.  Maybe she's not.  I've always thought she was but maybe she's not either.  (Pause)
And of course my older sister has just taken on way too much (clears throat) so she never has time to even think about what she might want to do with herself, it's all set out.  Because she married somebody with enough money so already they have several homes that she had to keep going and she had to constantly be getting help, they had children fairly soon after they were married.  So she began to have that and because of his position in n he's had, or she's had approaches to be on different committees and works of the sort that wives of men like my brother-in-law would be on and I, I just wonder how much she's ever really just decided this is what I am, this is the direction I'm going in.  It just seems to be true of all of us.  And I can't tell whether it's true or not of my brother.  Because he always seemed to fool around during the summers and never know too clearly what it was that he wanted to do.  And now he's waiting to hear about whether he's going to get into the type of service that he wants to get into.  And it took him forever to make up his mind what it was that he wanted to get into.  And although I think perhaps he has more direction than the rest of us, does seem he has this problem too.
ANALYST: When you uhm when you think of your brother and your younger sister and your older sister, is that the way they, I mean is that the way you think of them?  Or do you think of them by name and then convert it?
PATIENT: I don't know.  I think if I thought of any of them by name it would most likely be y.  But maybe I do convert them all.  (Pause) I think at that particular time I thought of both FNA and l as being my younger brother and my younger sister.  I don't, I don't, I'm not aware that I thought of them by name.  I'm not sure if I did convert FYC into my older sister.  I think I might have.  Because I think when I was talking about my brother-in-law, I, I had thought of yr and then I changed it.
ANALYST: For some reason?
PATIENT: Well, again, it's, this, I, I think it's this kind of thing of sort of stepping away a little bit from whatever it is I'm talking about and then the same, this makes me think of something I thought of earlier, that (clears throat) when I meant to talk about something like your stomach grumbling I thought I had immediately to move on to something else.  And I couldn't stop and pursue whatever thoughts I might have there or what my thoughts might indicate.  And I, because I remember noticing if, I think it was yesterday that you kept pulling me back to think about that particular incident and I kept trying to go to (chuckle) some place else.  And maybe this is the same thing with names that I don't want to get that close to it.  And something that just occurred to me is that I think I feel an awful lot of emotion when I think of my sisters and brother and yet I'm, on the other, I think I'm counteracting that, I'm feeling that how can they be responsible really, because we were all being affected by the same influences and so this emotion I feel which is probably a negative type of emotion is not something I can blame on them and yet if I get too close to it I will blame it on them because I feel so strongly.  (Pause)
And maybe what I was doing with FYC when I would stay in her room, I was thinking older sister then, what I would do would be, it was almost as if, the same type of thing I do when I think somebody doesn't like me then I try to be nicer to them.  And maybe in feeling a certain kind of hatred to her I would hang around and try to be nice to her because I was afraid of this other feeling.  (Pause) But when I think about my childhood I know I was very angry at her at times but I don't remember specifically thinking that I hated her.  And that my anger would come in spurts and that generally any really unhappy feelings I directed at my parents.  (Silence)
And I must have had some feeling about the fact that I had to share the room with first FYC and then FNA because there were one or two times when either I had had a bad cold and I slept in the room that was sort of our playroom then and then at one point FNA had her tonsils out and I guess I slept upstairs then on the same floor that my grandmother slept on when she was home and both times, uh, I don't know, I just felt so wonderful having my own room and then probably not long after that I did get my own room, but—, and thinking of that I thought of an incident that when I did sleep in the attic room uhm, the first night I was up there, there were a lot of noises I wasn't used to, none of them was sort of a steady banging by the radiator and it sounded just like footsteps and I used to have all sorts of fantasies when I was still awake at night about somebody coming to get me in my room and I used to often lie on my stomach because I thought if somebody was going to knife me then I'll, I won't have to know it until it's happened and then it would be too late.  And when, when I heard these steps my first reaction was that it was my sister, my older sister FYC coming to tease me.  And I became very upset because I tho—, I was sure she was there and hiding and the steps to my mind just sounded so exactly like footsteps coming up closer and closer to the door and, and I remember that my impression was the door handle rattled, just as the steps were the noisiest but she wasn't, she wasn't there at all.  And when my room that I had alone when I finally had my own room had no way to really get into it.  There was, there was a porch that hit the wall.  My room was a sort of tower room so the rounded wall came out from the porch and the window was in part of the rounded area and I suppose somebody could have if they really tried to get in my window, gotten across but wasn't too much chance of that and yet I had this feeling that every, not every night but I guess a lot of nights that somebody was going to be trying to get in my window and I'd keep looking at the window and checking to make sure nobody was there.
ANALYST: How old at this time?
PATIENT: I don't know, it just seemed to have gone on forever that I felt that way, uhm.
ANALYST: No, I mean when you went to the attic how old were you?
PATIENT: Uhm, uhm, maybe around 9, because I, my sister must have been around 5 or 6.  Well, I don't know how old, she had her tonsils out when she would have been between 4 and 6, I would imagine.  Because she had them out right at the time when they could affect her hearing or there was that belief then that, or maybe it was the adenoids that would affect the hearing.  But in any case, she must have been right around 1 grade because that would be the time I should think when you'd become most aware of how much she could actually hear you and listen carefully and so then I would be around 8 or 9 I guess.  But I know my sister used to love to uhm, when I was under 5 ½ because this was before we moved FYC used to love to hide behind the door and then when I'd start to walk into a dark room she'd jump out and yell at me.  And she used to think that was hysterical.  And maybe she even told me things that made me be afraid of being alone in a dark room.  But I don't think I ever kept a light on.  I don't remember doing that.  And I don't have a memory of having a terrible time getting to sleep, so, I'm not sure how much it really bothered me.  Except that I know I've always thought about lying on my stomach so that nothing would happen.  And if I'm alone now, if MSCZ is away on business, or working very late at the office and I have to go to bed alone, I'm again always very jumpy about suddenly looking up and seeing somebody in the doorway or hearing somebody in the apartment.  I think that's one reason why I used to hate to baby-sit for other people.  Aside from the fact that I really didn't relax with children that I didn't know.  But I used to always be so jumpy on any strange noise and I once baby-sat for some people who hadn't gotten curtains yet and they had one of these model houses with huge glass windows in it.  I just found it awful to baby-sit there.  Because I was just sure that all these people were looking in at me or somebody would be trying to get into the house and that he, because it was always a he, could be seeing me and there was no place I could go and kind of see him first when he got in.  And then I would have to tell myself I was being ridiculous.  And I don't know whether this ever happened, but one time my sister was baby-sitting for some people right up the street from us and she said that there was a room kind of separated from the house, like a porch and she was in there reading and suddenly she looked up and there was a man standing in the doorway and it happened that the couple had just gotten their divorce recently and this man that she said was there was a friend of the woman and might very well have come into the house and appeared bef—, not knowing that that woman was away.  But FYC called up kind of upset and was asking me to come up there which is why I thought it had happened and I remember just feeling how could she have stayed alive.  I would have had a heart attack if that had happened to me.  And I got very nervous just thinking about the possibility that it actually had happened.  But I think I, on the other hand I was kind of complimented that she would call upset and ask for me to do something because she so rarely showed any emotion that made her at all vulnerable.  And I used to think she knew everything.  And I'd sort of sit in awe of the things she would tell me like what girls her age were feeling and doing and people that she knew who were already smoking and all these things.  And she one time recently said something to me that she learned an awful lot from me about all that type of thing which really amazed me because I used just think that she knew everything.  And she said, well, she wouldn't admit that she hadn't known it if I said something to her she didn't know, but, I, I was just sure I didn't know anything that she didn't already know.  And she would treat me kind of with contempt if I would offer any information.  Because she always had to maintain a superiority over me.
ANALYST: Our time's up.
