TRANSCRIPT OF AUDIO FILE:
______________________________________________________________________________
BEGIN TRANSCRIPT:
THERAPIST: That's great!
CLIENT: I'm making money.
THERAPIST: Awesome! (pause) Speaking of money...
CLIENT: Uh oh.
THERAPIST: (pause) I guess the next one... [ours are probably due] (ph) for Wednesday...or for Tuesday rather, not for Wednesday. And the other is I am getting off Blue Cross as of January 1st.
CLIENT: I've heard this before.
THERAPIST: (laughter) Yeah. So yeah, you're on a PPO so they'll continue to pay out. I won't keep doing the recording, I assume. 
CLIENT: I forgot I was on a PPO.
THERAPIST: (pause) Oh you did? Yeah, you are, so there shouldn't be many differences.
CLIENT: Well they'll pay...don't they pay me?
THERAPIST: They'll pay you instead of paying me but I don't think they'll pay you any less except that you may need to pay a deductible. [00:01:01]
CLIENT: I've got to check my mail now.
THERAPIST: Right. (pause) And I'm also going to be balance billing (pause) which is why I'm getting off...the main reason I'm getting off Blue Cross in the first place.
CLIENT: Balance billing is not a term I'm familiar with.
THERAPIST: Okay, so (pause) currently like right now, the way it works, is Blue Cross says, "Okay Ethan, you get 90 bucks per visit with Joe Schmoe."
CLIENT: Oh so you're going to bill what they don't pay?
THERAPIST: Right. (pause) Now my usual rate these days is $150. Blue Cross I think will continue to pay the same thing they've been paying which is I think for you it's maybe $65. And the recording... [00:02:03]
CLIENT: [You're grossly undercompensated.] (ph)
THERAPIST: Yeah, I'm a little low. (pause) 
CLIENT: How can you afford to live in the area?
THERAPIST: (chuckle) Who said I can afford to live here!? (laughter) So, (pause) I don't want to bill you something you can't afford. (pause) So with the—I think it's $65—so it would be I think $115 with the check from Blue Cross (inaudible) and the recording, which would leave you with $35 per visit.
CLIENT: 70 bucks.
(pause)
THERAPIST: But like I said, I don't want to bill you something you can't afford. (pause) So... [00:03:13]
CLIENT: So I won't tell you about the big windfall (ph) I'm about to get.
THERAPIST: You know, this doesn't work as well if you feel like you can't tell me about things going well financially because you're concerned that I'm going to fuss about you not paying me enough. (pause) We'll just have to sort of figure out and negotiate what seems fair and reasonable, you know? You can wait and see how busy you are.
(pause)
CLIENT: Yeah, I mean I'm still not convinced you're going to drop Blue Cross. 
THERAPIST: Oh really?
CLIENT: Yeah. Have you filled out the paperwork yet? [00:04:00]
THERAPIST: Oh yeah, yeah I sent them something saying to terminate me. Yeah and I have other people who are switching to the PPO so that they can continue with me. 
CLIENT: [Going to have to.] (ph)
THERAPIST: Yeah.
(pause)
CLIENT: I, um... (pause)
THERAPIST: Do you want to think about it and see how things go and sort of let me know what you think you can afford?
CLIENT: Yeah, I think it will vary month to month. 
THERAPIST: Okay.
CLIENT: Right now, (pause) I mean, I'm doing well. (pause) So I've got three closings on the 29th. I've got a pipeline of about six or seven closings and refi's. And then a friend of mine from practice was doored riding her bike. [00:05:07]
THERAPIST: Oh is this the (inaudible)? I think you mentioned it.
CLIENT: Yeah, so I referred her to a friend of mine and he's going to pay me a referral fee. And I don't know how much he pays, whether he pays a third of his fee or 25 percent of his fee or whatever, but this is going to be anywhere from $5000 to $11,000. 
THERAPIST: For you.
CLIENT: In the next couple of weeks.
THERAPIST: That's awesome!
CLIENT: So I'll be able to catch up on my student loans and my website and (pause) maybe pay some to Jess. I haven't thought of...I'm back and forth on whether I should give money to Jess or not. But (pause) a lot of it I'm just going to try and put away for months that I don't have as much. I've got a whole bunch...literally half a dozen title exam orders in the last three days. 
THERAPIST: Oh, terrific! [00:06:12]
CLIENT: I don't know if this is just an end of the year busyness or whether it's going to continue into next year or not. (pause) So I had a closing yesterday and a seller write up the day before. (pause) I was able to buy a new winter coat which I haven't bought since (pause) '94.
THERAPIST: Wow.
CLIENT: (inaudible) like a real winter. So I have a car payment now. And I have a big doctor payment. 
THERAPIST: ENT?
CLIENT: Yeah. As long as your kids go to a good school, that's all that matters. (pause) [00:07:12]
THERAPIST: Poor guy.
CLIENT: Yale.
THERAPIST: (chuckle) I'll let them know.
CLIENT: You're kids, you're kids are (pause) probably not going to have the advantage of...you really have to have some regional or minority status or something. A white kid from the city makes it tough to get into Yale, especially if you're Jewish. They don't like Jews.
THERAPIST: Oh really?
CLIENT: Well that's what my uncle thinks. Years ago—I mean, he's in his 70s now—but he applied to a few Ivy Leagues and was rejected from Yale. [He thought it was because he's] (ph) Jewish. [00:07:57]
THERAPIST: They do have Jewish people (inaudible).
CLIENT: Yeah, so (pause) it's not uncommon for people to think, you know. But he went on to Virginia Tech and became a multi-millionaire.
THERAPIST: Oh is he the one who did the stuff with the farms?
CLIENT: Yeah. (pause) Yeah so I don't know if business is going to continue. I've been busy. That's why I was hustling up to the office on Tuesday because I went over on Monday to move some boxes out of where flooding usually occurs in the basement of the house. So I didn't really do much on Monday, just sat and listened to the wind. I did spend some time with the kids. I was sitting on the ground looking through boxes and Ian came and he sat on this knee. Lucille saw that so she came and sat on this knee so I don't know if she wanted to sit on my knee or if she only sat on my knee because she thought that that's what she was supposed to do because Ian was doing it. [00:09:08]
THERAPIST: Pretty cool either way.
CLIENT: Yeah. (pause) She had a mixed emotion trick or treating. A little scary at first but then she realized she got candy but wanted her mom to carry her up.
THERAPIST: What did they go as?
CLIENT: She went as a dinosaur, which is the same dinosaur costume we got for Ian when he was a wee bit lad, and Ian went as a sheriff. And they both had a pretty good time. (pause) I got pissed off at Jess about something. I can't remember what it was but it was like I just try to have a relationship with my kids and have a conversation and they may react negatively to what I'm doing, whatever, and she just has to intervene and say she doesn't like that or she doesn't want...I feel like one of the reasons she's sort of difficult to pry away from Jess is because Jess is unwilling to let her have some independence or cry or be upset. There's this (pause) effort to make sure everything is perfect for her. It's like, if she doesn't like what I'm trying to do then tough, you know? So I don't know. [00:10:36]
But I can't remember exactly what happened. (pause) But I find trick or treating to be quite boring. You know, you run into the neighbors and they're all dressed up and you're kind of embarrassed for them. Did you dress up?
THERAPIST: (chuckle) No.
CLIENT: I don't know. I guess people enjoy it, so... (pause) But it's a lot of effort. Like if I was going to a party I would feel weird not. I mean we did go to a party but it was like a pre-party for the kids. But if I went to a Halloween party then yeah I would dress up. You're supposed to do that but trick or treating and you're an adult, you should basically have a flashlight and stand on the sidewalk and make sure your kid doesn't get hit by a car. [00:11:47]
THERAPIST: Right, like an interested but kind of bored parent.
CLIENT: Yeah. You know Jess does and brings beer.
THERAPIST: Oh really?
CLIENT: Yeah. I don't know what it is but I just haven't had the...I had some beer Tuesday night. I haven't drank nearly as much as I had been drinking, really. It's more of a just, "I'm really not in the mood for a beer" but the farm had a trivia night Tuesday night at this guy's house so I had quite a few beers. Not quite a few but more than a couple. I did pretty good at trivia. [00:12:38]
THERAPIST: Nice. I wonder if (pause) having more money coming in makes you...
CLIENT: That definitely helps. (pause) Well I don't know, it's funny, because I was thinking to myself, I'm like God, I have no money and I'm out having dinner every night with the toads and drinking and spending money and (pause) I think it's just because I had this cough, (pause) and I still think I've got some nausea and I'm not quite sure whether it's from the Prozac or just from...you know, I've got to stop eating cheese and I'm just so mucus...you know. And now I found out that banana's give you mucus. I just bought a bunch of bananas. But I'm just not feeling good very often and I'm not drinking enough water and I'm not exercising anymore like riding my bike. So I think I'm just kind of run down and physically in a rut and that's why I'm not in a mood to drink. I just feel sick. [00:13:58]
But (pause) definitely having business helps. (pause) Having a woman would help too. Even (ph) a girl, (pause) but you know, someone in her 20s. (chuckle) I guess technically they're women too but they don't act it.
(pause) I was in an awkward situation because I think ethically I'm supposed to disclose to I'hara (sp) that I'm getting a referral fee, you know? And I really haven't done that. I kind of thought it was obvious or that everybody knew that or whatever. Her brother lives in Colorado and in Colorado if you settle before trial the lawyer gets 20 percent where if you go to trial he gets a third. And that's not the case in this state so her brother told her she should—because this is all settling and happening very quickly—and it's not like Phil's not doing a lot of work. He's actually...it's not he's just done a little bit of paperwork and made some phone calls. He's actually working. Is he working to the tune of $30,000? No, but that's the game. [00:15:31]
THERAPIST: Right, on another case he could spend... [kind of work] (ph) and get nothing.
CLIENT: Exactly. So (pause) she asked me what I thought about asking Phil to lower his fee and (pause) I kind of hedged at saying while I'm biased and say why I was biased. And she probably thought just because I'm a state attorney but the 20 percent is low in this state. But I said, "If you feel like he deserves less money or you want him to take less money, ask. It can't hurt to ask." So I took that perspective and Phil hasn't said anything to me so I know she hasn't asked because he probably would have said something to me. But this is a $100,000 policy and a third is going to the lawyer, a third is going to the health insurance company and she's going to get a third. [00:16:32]
THERAPIST: What kind of policy is that?
CLIENT: Automobile.
THERAPIST: Oh really?
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: So the door opener's car insurance pays it?
CLIENT: Yeah. (pause) And right now it's more of just fighting with the health insurance company over their lien because the medical bills are like $90,000 and there's going to be one more surgery so that's the policy right there. So if they try and... [00:16:59]
THERAPIST: Is that not covered by her health insurance?
CLIENT: Oh it is, but the health insurance...the health insured is entitled to a lien and a recovery to recover what they've paid out.
THERAPIST: So they...so the money won't go to I'hara (sp). It will go to Blue Cross?
CLIENT: Yeah, that's the negotiation that goes on. This is really where Phil makes his money because he's got to convince Blue Cross or whoever to take less than what they're entitled to or take nothing at all. If she's not going to get any money, why should she settle? You know? Because then there's no money.
THERAPIST: Right, for anybody.
CLIENT: So in some instances they've taken no money at all and that's probably just a smaller policy because it's a $100,000 policy they want a third. So, and that's typically what happens. I don't know, it's a different ballgame than what I deal with. But the bottom line is in a couple weeks I'm going to get a nice big check. [00:18:02]
THERAPIST: That's great!
CLIENT: That I don't know exactly what to do with. I know there's certain things I've got to catch up on and depending on you know, if it's $5000 that's pretty much spent. (chuckle) But if it's $11,000 there's going to be some...
THERAPIST: Breathing room.
CLIENT: I can put some money away. I've already started putting a little bit of money away. They put taxes on them based on the money I'm making just in case our estimated doesn't cover the tax bill.
(pause) So, work has been still a pain. I'm getting a lot of post-closing bullshit. I had a file I was looking for, a file from 2004 that they claim there's a problem on, which there is. But I don't (pause) you know, it's probably a refinance, etc. I don't know. They fax you something—and this is what I don't respond to—is if you just fax me something and hen don't follow up with a phone call, then I ignore it. If you follow up with a phone call, you know... [00:19:25]
And very often it's not my responsibility. Like I'll do a refinance and there's an opening mortgage—an un-discharged mortgage—and I'll let it go or I'll take an indemnification from another lawyer. But it's not my responsibility to make sure...the only time it would become my responsibility is if there was a claim on my...they went to foreclose on a mortgage I did after I closed. Then I'm responsible and that's yet to happen. And very often the title insurance companies go ahead and get the discharges for you anyways because they've been so busy doing it that they don't even bother with the attorneys. They just go ahead and get the discharge packets themselves. [00:20:12]
(pause)(inaudible)
THERAPIST: Yeah, the thing pops up and it's (inaudible)
(pause)
CLIENT: So it's been an interesting...I think the big difference for me is that in the past this money has been going straight to credit cards and mortgage payments and now I don't have that. I'm going to be able to catch up on my rent and do all of these...get back at least to a ground zero. Hopefully, if things are slow, that gives me some cushion to slide back again but if things continue the way they are continuing, I don't know what effect the election would have...[00:21:11]
(pause)I'm nervous but it looks like Obama's going to win. So I think that's more beneficial for my business than Romney, in some ways. There are some things that he would be better for—regulation of the mortgage industry. That would be much less taxing and easier on me if Romney was elected.
THERAPIST: [So it's going to be] less regulation.
CLIENT: Yeah the new consumer finance protection bureau has come out with new rules for mortgages and part of it is gives the lender an opportunity to not...to do the closing themselves.
THERAPIST: I see.
CLIENT: And the title insurance company is spending a lot of money lobbying and convincing lenders that they should use us. In this state you have to use an attorney anyways so I'm not so sure how it would all play out.
THERAPIST: And would [inaudible] getting elected affect that?
CLIENT: No, the only difference would be is if they tried to block the regulations with litigation. Usually one of the things they do is de-fund. They don't give funding but the bureau is self-funded through fines and fees and stuff so it's like you can't really define (inaudible) [00:22:46]
But they're going overboard and everybody's got to change their computers. Everything is going to change. So you can't just implement that in a day. When you throw in the lawsuits and the time they've got to give in the industry to catch up you're looking at probably a couple of years before the industry will look improved. (ph)
(pause)
So, if I could find more people through the injured, I'll do that. (pause) My buddy Phil also does real estate and when we sat up a presentation about the new rule he was like, "I need to do more personal injury."
THERAPIST: (chuckle)
CLIENT: So I should be worried about it. I'm trying not to think about it (pause) because it's a little farther down the path but once again, you know, (pause) I don't know. (pause)
I had to go sit in land court today, in registry. It takes them forever to file documents so I'm going to go straight from here. Hopefully my overnight is at the registry and then I could just get in line. I've got to pick Ian up at 2:30 and you can spend two to three hours waiting. It's ridiculous. And no other land court registry is like that. They're all like boom, boom, boom. And this area is just a nightmare. [00:24:40]
(pause) So... (pause) that's going to be my day today. Soccer, the last soccer practice and a soccer game tomorrow. I'm going to a concert tomorrow night with my friend Paige.
THERAPIST: Oh nice!
CLIENT: So that should be fun. And beer tasting on Sunday. That will be fun. These brew-offs I go to where they brew beers, they select a style for the next brew-off and a bunch of my friends do a tasting of that style to come up with ideas. So, everybody picks the style of scotch ale. So everybody goes out and buys a couple of six packs of scotch ale and we all sit around and I just...they just invite me because they know I like to drink. (chuckle) [00:25:45]
(pause)
I've had something every day and every night and (pause) tomorrow I've got to do the work I'm not going to be able to do today because I've got to go pick up Ian and I've got to go to the farm and do soccer...I used to get upset that soccer was at 8:30 but the fact that it's at 8:30 is it's out of the way. So I can go to soccer, go to the Fed Ex place downstairs and make my copies and get my package out. (pause) Then I've got to go to the farm, first winter share pick up.
(pause) The only food I really had in the house for the storm were potatoes and Kit-Kats. (pause) My diet has been horrible lately. (pause) Oh! Jess's mom can pick up Ian. That takes the pressure off. (pause) I was worried I was going to be stuck at the registry but I shouldn't. That will give me maybe a chance I can (pause) get that package out today which would be nice. I wouldn't have to worry about it tomorrow. [00:27:33]
(pause) But it is a weird feeling (pause) being able to pay off my bills and there's still money left. (pause) Like, I felt guilty buying the coat. I bought socks too. I can't remember the last time I bought socks. I may even go to the grocery store and stock up on groceries. I keep going and getting sandwiches and stuff. I can make my own sandwiches. (pause) I should try and eat better this winter. I haven't exercised (inaudible). Maybe I can do that this afternoon, do some burpees. I've yet to do one burpee. [00:28:42]
(pause) But I don't know. I don't know if it's a combination of having some work, which helps. There's stress with the work. I've put 1600 miles on my car already but the car is working out great.
THERAPIST: That's terrific.
CLIENT: And I'm getting really good gas mileage.
THERAPIST: Oh good. Radio is working out?
CLIENT: Radio is fantastic. I get into the car and it hooks up with my phone and then just starts playing music on my phone. I've been listening to NPR again, which is either Sandy or the election so I turn it off. (pause) But I'm wondering if the Prozac and the lamotrigine (ph) are helping me as well. There seems to be some correlation there too. I'm also taking this small amount of Abilify which I guess just makes more of the other medications available. I'm not sure exactly how it works.
THERAPIST: It's an anti-psychotic. [00:30:04]
CLIENT: So I think to some degree that's kind of what's going on. (pause) I'm on a large amount of Wellbutrin but obviously it wasn't working. I think she was kind of surprised that I could be depressed on the amount of Wellbutrin I was on. I think it just maybe stopped working, which happens right?
THERAPIST: Yes.
CLIENT: Yeah, so...that will probably be the next medication [I'd be off of] (ph). Besides I'm down to—unless I take a Klonopin—just one pill at night. I've still got four or five. I've got to talk to my doctor about these blood pressure medications. I should probably send him an e-mail and see what it's worth. I don't know how you determine once someone's on a blood pressure medication to take them off. (pause) I wonder if he could take me off and have me come in and check my blood pressure for a couple weeks. I'd prefer not to be on the medication, but I don't want to have a heart attack. (pause) I'm too busy. (chuckle) [00:31:29]
So a new car and a new coat. I'm a new man. (pause) If your fees going up I might as well just quit. (chuckle) I'm cured. I've got no problems.
THERAPIST: (chuckle)
(pause)
CLIENT: My dad's going in for another surgery Tuesday or Wednesday. So he's probably not going to go to the game which means Ian will probably be able to use his ticket. I think Ian is very happy. (pause) That's all he talks about. "I hope I get to go to the game!"
THERAPIST: Oh really?
CLIENT: Yeah. (pause) I don't even think he knows...even understands football but you know, he'll have fun. (pause) He likes going to sporting events. He likes eating all the crap which if my dad was going to the game my dad would be buying all the crap. Maybe my dad will give me money to buy crap for him. (pause) But one trip to the baseball park is like 100 bucks in food for that kid.
THERAPIST: Wow. [00:33:12]
CLIENT: We get a hot dog. He'll eat pizza. He'll eat ice cream, cotton candy, popcorn—or kettle corn. He's just a bottomless pit at the park. And some things like the ice cream he'll only eat half of so it's like I'm eating half of everything. Like when we went to the soccer game we split the pizza and we split the hot dog and then we got this popcorn. We didn't even finish that. I was nervous that he was going to be hitting me up for all kinds of (pause) crappy foods. (pause) Next year when I take him I'm going to tailgate and load him up on a burger and a dog before the game. [00:34:06]
THERAPIST: I see. Save you 50 or 60 bucks. 
CLIENT: Yeah. (chuckle)
(pause)
I bought myself an $11 beer. (pause) I used to be $10 beers, now I'm $11. Long for the days of the $10 beer. (chuckle) Like you could buy a whole six pack for $8. (pause) Or one for $10, such a scam. I used to never drink beer at the stadium. I would load up as much as I can and tailgate. And then about the third or fourth quarter you start falling asleep, start getting a little bit of a headache, hangover. (pause) The first time I had ever really had a beer in the new stadium was when Tom Brady's knee blew out. That was the first game in '09, I don't know, but I said, "I need a beer." [00:35:16]
(pause)
THERAPIST: You seem...
CLIENT: More upbeat.
THERAPIST: Yeah, especially at the beginning, clearly the work makes a big difference in the money that way which is really terrific. You seem to start getting a little anxious, that's my impression again, as you're talking now.
(pause)
CLIENT: Anxious about what? General anxiety?
THERAPIST: Well you started off seeming more at ease and upbeat and clearly (pause) reassured because of the work and the money, which is great, like I said. But I guess I'm struck that as you're continuing to talk I think you seem (pause) to be sounding a bit more anxious again. [00:36:21]
CLIENT: Do you have an example?
THERAPIST: The way that it seems to be inverting (ph) partly it's like your tapping your feet, partly there's a slight pressure to your speech, like the way you're moving from one thing to the next doesn't feel as at ease or doesn't seem as at ease as it did in the beginning of the hour. It seems a little more like it's trying to sort of build a gap to sort of keep yourself busy so that you're not feeling anxiety that's there.
CLIENT: I do have anxiety about every little piece of work I have, you know? Like closing, I was nervous about the seller. His check was going to be more than the available funds in my account because part of the money was coming from a bank check. It just happened to be that that check was drawn on my account and it worked out that the money would have been there but I had to sort of embarrassingly ask him, "Where do you do your banking?" because he does it at my bank, it goes through on the same day and that would have bounced and then that would put me back in front of the Board of Bar Overseers and I'd really be fucked. [00:37:51]
THERAPIST: So it worked out because he happens to be at a different bank?
CLIENT: He banks at a different bank and the (pause) check that the borrower brought, the closing costs and cash to close, was drawn on my bank so they made it available right away. So it wouldn't have been an issue even he did use my bank but for a week I was anxious about this. (pause) I met with an estate planning client who I've been working with for a couple of years now to get these documents done and they won it at a silent auction. And I don't know, I was just anxious about that. So I'm not (pause)...as each thing approaches I'm worried about something going wrong because things have been going wrong, you know? Short pay off... [00:38:52]
THERAPIST: Right, right. Things sort of come up that you can't entirely control or predict it somehow.
(pause)
CLIENT: I'm going out of town which means (pause) something is going to get planned during that. I filed a small claims, hopefully that doesn't get scheduled for while I'm out of town.
THERAPIST: When are you going?
CLIENT: The first weekend in December, so I'm leaving that Saturday, bright and early, 5:30 am flight.
THERAPIST: Wow.
CLIENT: We always seem to go on an early flight but it's because all of the tickets are taken up because everybody is going down to the game. And it's December so people fly down and then go on a cruise for a week or whatever but all the flights were booked up. I couldn't get a flight that was cheap—well cheap, $300—that there were two seats together. And I'm uncomfortable with the whole "can you move so I can sit next to my son" type of thing. [00:40:08]
So on the 5:30 flight there were two seats together but one of them was you had to pay an extra $14 for the seat because it was a premium seat. So I paid $14 for the extra seat. But that puts us in at 8:00 or 9:00 so we have the whole day. My mom works during the week so we can spend the whole day with my mom because we're going to be at the game on Sunday and (pause) my dad is probably just going to go...hopefully this surgery works. His back is just in horrible shape. He's just, I mean... (pause). He can't get around. He can't lift stuff and in just constant pain. (pause) He's (pause) 73. (pause) 73. (pause) So hard at that age to deal with all of that, you know. So... (pause) he's miserable to begin with so even though he's not in pain he's cranky. (pause) I always say if he's not complaining, he's not happy. (pause) That may be true for me too. 
(silence from [00:41:49] to [00:42:24)
I'm anxious about those three closings on the 29th. I've got Phil closing one of them for me. And then one's a seller rep and then we've got to go down for a cash purchase so it's like (pause) that's one of the reasons why I'm not leaving until Saturday too because that's a Thursday and that gives me Friday to fix any problems.
(pause)
Did you lose any trees?
THERAPIST: No, a couple branches down. (pause) Did you guys have any issues?
CLIENT: The power may have gone out but I was sleeping. I think things probably just flashed because like the microwave was flashing. I woke up at midnight or two, sometime, and all the lights were on.
(pause)
THERAPIST: Well why don't we finish up for now? (inaudible) Tuesday. 
CLIENT: (inaudible) take advantage of these cheap sessions. (chuckle) [00:44:03]
END TRANSCRIPT
