TRANSCRIPT OF AUDIO FILE:
______________________________________________________________________________
BEGIN TRANSCRIPT:


COUNSELOR: This is Wednesday. 


PATIENT: I feel like I'm starting all over again.


COUNSELOR: It's been a long time. 


PATIENT: Yeah, OK. There were quite a few things that happened (chuckle) in-between then and now that I was kind of sorry that I had to miss so many times. We had some unusual things happen to us. I guess it was the last time after we left here, which has been about 6 weeks now, and John seemed upset because he felt like he had come to an end with what he had to talk about. And sometime late in the evening that night, we got into a big discussion about what, if any, good any of this was doing us. And I said that I felt like he was wasting his time because he couldn't open up, and this was the problem that I felt that he and I had when we're together. And I discussed this thing with him about being able to talk to him about my sexual hang-ups and everything, and he kept saying, "Well I can't - I'm not capable of helping you." 


And I tried to explain to him that I wasn't looking for him to help but just to listen; that he always felt that every time someone told him a problem, he had to come up with the solution. And he got quite upset about it because I think he felt that I was more or less criticizing him for the role he had as a husband. That he wasn't capable of being a good husband. And he discussed it with some fellow that he works with who's a psychologist, and I know he was really upset about it. And I felt bad because that wasn't what I had intended to do. [2:37]


COUNSELOR: You didn't want to make him upset. You wanted things to work better somehow.


PATIENT: Yeah I didn't - it was like a really great discussion, and I was trying to be as honest and open with him as I could. And he was sort of like taking it all in the wrong way. And it was really funny because I had thought - I had forgotten completely about the discussion, and I guess that he discussed it last week with his therapist. And I was kind of surprised that he still remembered all the details. I guess it really did kind of sink in. But other than that, I don't know, it seems like things are still so rocky between us. 


COUNSELOR: But what was the other thing, like how is that real for you now that - you're kind of smiling now (ph) that it's kind of funny that he should construe it a different way or - I'm not getting it?


PATIENT: Maybe in a way, yeah, because I guess it's like I never feel like I really get through to him. It's like he looks at it his own way and that's the way it is for him, and like I try to convince him the next day that I wasn't pouncing on him like a tiger. 


COUNSELOR: So it's sort of like there he is again not hearing me. 


PATIENT: Un-huh.


COUNSELOR: It's happened 10,000 times and there it is again. 


PATIENT: It's like - well this is like I told him about you needing therapy. I said, "You really have a wall built up about opening up." And I said, "I thought that it would be hard for me because I really didn't understand anything about it at all." But I said, "Here you are really like supposed to know what all this is about." Maybe that's why it's so difficult for him, I don't know. But he just seems to be like - well he said after last week, it was better. Maybe he had run into a dead end, I don't know. But he seems to be - he's still so uptight about things, and it's making - well I've been really like super depressed the last month; really been bad. And it really has nothing to do with - I was just going to say it really has nothing to do with John but it does. [5:12]


It's just been an accumulation of things, and it's really been getting me down, and I, I've had a hard time coping with it. And it was like about a week before Thanksgiving, I really felt great. I was all full of energy and excitement and everything, and then something happened about three days before Thanksgiving and then after that, everything just seemed to be going wrong. And I've been trying to get myself out it, and I can't. I just - it's like I need someone to talk to, and I don't have anyone because I can't really talk to John about the things that are on my mind. And I don't really have a friend that I could trust. Like I could just call like at 12:30, 1:00 in the morning when I'm really in that desperate mood to talk to someone, and I think all these things are just like building up inside of me, and I can't release them. 


COUNSELOR: Are they there right now?


PATIENT: Yeah (laughter), I mean, they are there constantly. I can push them out of my mind for a while and forget about them, but I just can't put my finger on it. It's like I'm just unhappy with everything that's around me and I'm unhappy with everything. The life we're leading and everything. It's just really frustrating. I can't explain it because I really don't know myself. I can't - it's like at times I'm very happy with marriage and everything, and then at other times I just, I don't even care if it goes on beyond that point right there. 


COUNSELOR: You're just like you don't care if anything goes wrong.


PATIENT: Like our, for instance, our sex life is still the same as it was when we first started coming. [7:34]


COUNSELOR: So it's kind of a blah feeling; nothing's changing; everything's a drag - [like that] (ph).


PATIENT: I keep expecting for something big to happen and nothing happens. I don't know, maybe we need like some catastrophe in our lives to change things because I can't think of anything good happening that would change it because I don't feel that things could get any better [for it] (ph) for me right now. I mean we're relatively happy with the way things are, so I can only think of something bad happening. Like some kind of a disaster that would maybe make us more aware of each other. 


COUNSELOR: It sounds like you're not so happy with the way things are, and that it's just a drag and you want something to blow it up. 


PATIENT: I can't, like I don't even think about or get enthused about anything anymore that - like to go somewhere, to do something, and it's just like each day just gets worse and worse. I don't have any enthusiasm to do anything, and I suppose that, maybe in some respects, John feels the same way, but at least he has his job. But ... 


COUNSELOR: And you just can't pull yourself out of it. 


PATIENT: And I don't think that a job would help me. I mean I - it's an escape, and when I am at work, I don't think about it as much. But I don't, I - well I still find myself drifting off into thoughts of my own, and I've been doing that more and more frequently. And I don't - it's so funny, it's just like the marriage is at a standing point. It's like we don't even argue anymore (laughter).


COUNSELOR: It's like nothing. [9:48]


PATIENT: Yeah. I mean it doesn't create any type of emotion at all. It - like when you fight, you have anger and then you usually cry and make up, and then with the sex you have physical emotion. There's like nothing. It's just, maybe to some people would say, "Well you don't fight, that's great." But I don't really think it is. 


COUNSELOR: Like you - there's some kind of contact or intensity that just isn't there. 


PATIENT: I mean it's sort of like it's really not worth getting anger over, or I don't know what it is.


COUNSELOR: The marriage isn't worth it.


PATIENT: I don't know if I've reached that point that I could say that. I mean I think it sometimes, you know, like where is it all going to end.


COUNSELOR: But that just like something is terrible wrong. 


PATIENT: Yeah it's like I could feel it, and I haven't talked to John about it. I haven't been able to express to him this feeling, but I can sense that something - I'm uneasy about something, and I really can't figure what it is. It's like I keep thinking that everyday something's going to happen that's going to change, but, I don't know, it's like we had a terrible thing on Thanksgiving where I think it was really the first time that he ever really disappointed me. But it was lack of family gathering, and it inched up where my father left in a huff, and I was all upset. And I was really shaking; I was so upset about the whole thing. [12:11]


And the person who caused the whole disruption in the first place was his father, and everyone left. It was like two o'clock in the morning, and I was just really asleep (ph). And I really needed him to be there and just let me get it out. And he started lecturing me about how you're not a kid anymore, and you have all these fantasies about what holidays should be. And when it's not that way, you're disappointed. And it wasn't exactly what I needed at that particular time (chuckle), and my father kept calling all night and apologizing. And I really needed to be alone and talk to someone and get this all out of me, and he invited his father to stay overnight. And it was like he didn't want to be alone with me, and I was just furious because that was the last thing in the world I needed was an outsider. And especially since I felt that he was the villain anyway.


And then we were supposed to go over and see some friends, and I didn't want to go. And I kept saying, "No I don't - I can't be with people now. I can't just turn this off and start socializing and talking." And so it was like if you don't go, I'm going anyway. And I just - I was afraid to be left alone really because I was - it was the first time I think that I was ever panic stricken at something that I might do. And I went only because I was afraid to be alone, and I just - like I couldn't go to sleep when I got home, and I stayed up all night and just did things; stupid things like scrubbed the kitchen floor. [14:25]


And at seven o'clock in the morning, I was still working. And I got sick, and it was like I couldn't explain to him how badly all of this was for me. How bad this was for me, and that instead of him not take sides or anything but like just to be there. And it was - I don't think he ever understood what I mean. That's why I say I feel like we're losing touch with one another because there's always other people involved in our lives and there's always like a third party that'll prevent that communication. 


COUNSELOR: And when you really needed that, like he disappointed you.


PATIENT: And it happened on other occasions during this period where I really had been bad, and he knows it because like I've sort of talked to him about it a little bit. And maybe it frightens him because he can't, again, getting back to that thing where he thinks he has to have a solution, he can't figure out why I'm this way. 


COUNSELOR: How does it feel to you?


PATIENT: What?


COUNSELOR: The disappointment. 


PATIENT: The disappointment about Thanksgiving or what?


COUNSELOR: The whole thing. I mean like his keeping on kind of doing that to you. 


PATIENT: It was sort of like I really just had no one because for the last several years I felt that I really only had John to begin with. And then all of a sudden not to have him either, it was really a desperate kind of a loneliness; like I really didn't have anyone to turn to. [16:35] 


COUNSELOR: And there's nothing there, and it's - I mean it's big, like the world [specifically or something] (ph). 


PATIENT: And see it was real funny; it was during this period that I made this big announcement to him that I wanted to start a family. And I think it really threw him, but he said, "All right if that's what you want." And then I started thinking about why I decided all of a sudden that I wanted to have a baby, and I guess it was because I felt that we had reached, maybe we had reached a point in our married life that it did need a change. Like maybe we were just running around in a big circle, and like we had become so dependent on other people to fulfill our lives, that we're not dependent on each other any more. But then I really, I don't know because I feel that maybe that's not just the only thing. I think ...


COUNSELOR: That depending on somebody is not the only thing?


PATIENT: Yeah I think that they're things that bother me about myself that I could never discuss with him even if he were willing to listen. I couldn't, and ...


COUNSELOR: You just couldn't get them out. There too deep or something to hide or ... 


PATIENT: And they're things that - as long as they're bothering me, I feel that there will be that strain between us. I think the things that are with him are on a different level, and he may not want to talk about them, but he could if he wanted to. I don't think I could even if wanted to, and I keep hoping that if I can work them out, if I'm capable of working them out, that maybe then things will change. 


COUNSELOR: That somehow you have to change, and it'll be better. [19:11]


PATIENT: I think that they were things that were always there, but probably in the last couple of years, they gotten to be really overwhelming for me to cope with. And I know definitely that they're just, they're just things that I really - I couldn't even, I couldn't begin tell him, and I don't think he would understand even if I did. 


COUNSELOR: Are you thinking of something in particular now, or is it like maybe it's something hard to talk about. 


PATIENT: Yes and no. I, I've debated about talking about them. I mean it's like it's really, it's hard for me because I - it's not that I think they're so terrible, but it just that it's me. If someone else were to talk to me about the same thing, I wouldn't think it, but it's because it's me. 


COUNSELOR: Yeah when it's you, it's different. 


PATIENT: Yeah. But it's sort of like - I think the thing that bothers me the most about myself is that I have become so self-centered in everything that I do. And I can feel myself being this way, but I can't do anything about it. It's sort of like I, I'm trying to become less preoccupied with what I want to do, and what I want and start to think about other people, but I can't. 


COUNSELOR: So you're kind of in the middle there. [21:24] 


PATIENT: Yeah and see I think, for instance, the thing with us is that I have a lot of time to be preoccupied with myself. More time in the last couple of years than I did when we first got married, and I think maybe that's why it's starting to catch up with me. But it's like not only - I don't know how I can say this. They like involve only what will make me happy. I think that's why, you know, of us like battling the idea of having children because it would interfere. 


COUNSELOR: You weren't only you somehow in there (ph) - just you. 


PATIENT: It sounds like - that's why I think that I have this really hang-up about being, by having a lot of attention paid to me by other men because it's sort of filled something that obviously is missing. I mean that's the reason I've come up with. It's like I can't honestly believe that I'm some kind of a person who has to have like men hanging all over her. It's not that kind of a feeling. It's like I find it very easy to become attached to other men. Not so much physically, but mentally like in a talking sense. And it bothers me because I feel like I'm using these people to satisfy something that's missing out of my life, and like I've even caused problems because of it. [24:17]


COUNSELOR: Yeah I - if I get that, it's like there's something wrong with that, and you shouldn't want to be with other men. 


PATIENT: No I don't - yeah that's right. It's like a feeling that I feel is totally wrong. It's like when we're out somewhere - especially in a group of people who I know well, and who maybe I know specific people in there who I find attractive or something - it's like I don't even care if John's around and that really bothers me. And it's not that I have any intentions in the world of getting involved or even having it go beyond that specific time, that night of just maybe just talking or something like that. And it's like I'm frightened to even go out anymore. I don't even want to go into groups of people because I'm afraid of what I'm going to do, and ...


COUNSELOR: But before you were saying there's something about that that you need. There's some part of that that seems right. It's bunked (ph) somehow; wrong that you should do that, but ... 


PATIENT: Well the only thing that I can figure out is that, you know, for a long time I didn't feel this way or at least I don't think I did, maybe I did. [And that always looks better] (ph). I like want people to like me, and, I don't know, maybe see something in me that I can't see in myself. I don't know if it's like something that I have found that I can use as a weapon against my insecurity. Like it really builds me up and for a couple of day, I really feel great. And I can really just do all sorts of things, but see now I - maybe that's why I am the way I am right now because I have, I've really been battling against this. [26:52]


Like when we go out, I don't even have a good time anymore. I don't - I really just sit and don't do anything. I don't even have more than one or two drinks. It's like I'm so afraid to relax and enjoy myself because I think something bad is going to happen.


COUNSELOR: You're going to do something, and it's going to be a real disaster. 


PATIENT: Or, I don't know, I - see it's funny because I think that a lot of things that I do bug John, but he's afraid to say anything. 


COUNSELOR: What would it be, I mean, why would he be afraid if you let go?


PATIENT: Well I mean like ... if I would let go?


COUNSELOR: Yeah.


PATIENT: I don't know. I mean, well the only time that I ever did let go something did happen, which was - I don't think that that would happen again. I don't know, but I don't think it would. And yet I don't know, and maybe that's why I'm so afraid. And the thing that bothers me so much is why I feel this way. Why ...


COUNSELOR: Are you worried about that something would happen? I mean why do you feel that way?


PATIENT: I'm worried about that, and I'm also worried about the fact that why do I have this unusual, well usual desire to be like, I don't know, I can't find the word that I want. But like why do, you know, why do I have this feeling that I want these things to happen?


COUNSELOR: Do you want to have an affair with somebody? [29:01]


PATIENT: No, I mean, like for someone to pay a little bit more attention to [than our] (ph), you know, from the ordinary or like to make over you or to do something. And, I don't know, maybe if I felt that it was just because, you know, that I was really hung-up on myself, I don't know, maybe it wouldn't bother me as much. But I think that there's more to it, and therefore it does bother me. 


COUNSELOR: More to it than just your hang-up?


PATIENT: More to it than just worrying ...


COUNSELOR: Is there ashtray? [Put it out] (ph).


PATIENT: More to it than just wanting the attention of someone ...


COUNSELOR: [Put in right there] (ph).


PATIENT: For a short period of time like just to have it scratch (ph) some kind of conceded streak in me or something. Maybe that wouldn't bother me as much, but it's like I feel that there's more to it than just that. 


COUNSELOR: And you don't want just a little attention. 


PATIENT: Well I think with, well John and I have talked about different things that occurred when we've gone out. And like if somebody says something to me that's like an advancement, I have on occasion said things to him about it. And he'll like - I know he's really, really angry, but he'll act like it's no big thing. And I think that he's like, I think he's like afraid of something. I don't know, this is the feeling that I have. It's like we've talked about, for so long, we talked about the aspect of him ever having an affair because he always had so much more of an opportunity and, you know, within the type of position where it would be very easy. But I don't think that he ever thought that he had to worry about me because he could never believe, I think, that someone could do something like that to him. [31:50]


And this kind of goes back to his mother thing again. I guess because he did catch her with men and things like that. And see I get real hung up on that too because I keep thinking, well, maybe I am like his mother more than I want to believe and more than he wants to believe. And ...


COUNSELOR: Particularly in that way.


PATIENT: Yeah.


COUNSELOR: As if you could do that.


PATIENT: Yeah. And it's like, it's really - it's like really, it's bothering me so much that it's really starting to overwhelm me. I can't think of anything else. 


COUNSELOR: That that could happen. Like that's what keeps bothering you. 


PATIENT: Or that the fact that, I don't know, like I really do get panic stricken when I think of what would happen if he ever really did find out anything, or if I ever would really break down one night and really start talking to him about all of this, which it has come close to it on occasions. And I really don't know what he would do. It frightens me. If I thought that he really and truly would try to understand, or I think in many ways, I think he could really help me. I really do if he would give himself and chance and me, but right now, I don't think he could. I don't think he'd want to. I think it would be easier for him to either walk out or just turn off on the whole thing. [33:58]


And see just with the sex thing, we don't even talk about it anymore. And I'm sure that it has to be bothering him, it has to. And yet there's no way that we can communicate about it. 


COUNSELOR: Yeah so it sounds like there just - you two are more or less isolated boxes. And you have all these feeling that you would really like to say, but you don't know if they're going to be met. 


PATIENT: I would ...


COUNSELOR: And he probably has them too. 


PATIENT: I guess, I don't know. See this - and then sometimes I start really imagining things about him, and I wonder if I'm doing it because of my own guilt feelings. That I'm trying to put things onto him so that I would have something to fight back with, but ...


COUNSELOR: Yeah I'm getting some picture of like incredible distance between, and like you're - it's almost like he's over in one corner and you're over in the other. And each of you have your own thoughts, but they never meet. [35:18]


PATIENT: No they don't. And, I mean, like the thing that - it's like I really, it's like I'm really starting to doubt him about a lot of things, and I feel that it's very unfair because I don't think I really have any reason to. But I feel like I'm doing it because I am hoping that he'll do something wrong or that he'll make a wrong move, and that we will then have a common ground to meet on. But right now, it's sort of like I feel like [I know how it] (ph) feels with these really terrible things that bother me about myself. And he's totally unaware of it, or, anyway, I think he is, and that there's no way that I can come and meet him somewhere in-between and discuss these things. 


COUNSELOR: You mean you just don't know how to do that or there doesn't seem to be any way right now. 


PATIENT: No there's just - it's like, it's sort of like just something that I feel right now that I'm going to have to try to overcome myself. And, I mean, I really have convinced myself of that to the point that I - I've convinced myself that if I can get these things worked out, then everything will be all right with everything else. 


COUNSELOR: So we're back to what are those things and we started on that before. [37:04]


PATIENT: Well just the things that really bother me about - just everything about myself. It's like I feel like I haven't really accomplished anything. And it's really funny, but sometimes I really wish that I was back at the age of eight or nine. And I like, see I really started dwelling on the past and that bothers me to because I keep thinking of things that I had done or things that I didn't do that I would do differently now. And it's like become an obsession with me, and then I'll get hung-up on these other things that are happening now, and I just don't know which way to turn because I'm not even - it's like I'm not even existing in the present state that I'm in now, and ...


COUNSELOR: And somehow you're not real now, like you're not a person who accomplishes something and who is free.


PATIENT: I just, I can't seem to accept the responsibilities all of a sudden. That's really what it boils down to. I mean it's like I don't really like think about what I say anymore, you know, like I just blurt things out. Even like at the shop, I used to be so careful about things I would discuss or people or anything. And I just say things now that I can't even believe that I'm saying because it's so unlike me, and I just like do things that don't have any reason to them. I mean it's like really - it's like kind of funny. I'm so absent minded about things. [40:04]


COUNSELOR: Yeah it's tough (ph).


PATIENT: And I think it's because I'm so preoccupied with other things that I'm not really, I'm not being a responsible, more mature person. 


COUNSELOR: You are not being a person at all. I mean it's not real somehow what you say and do. It's not connected to what you are.


PATIENT: Like I lose things, or I forget where I put things. And I'm always doing really stupid things. Like if I'm out shopping or something, I walk into people. And it's just, it's really like I'm not even aware of anybody else being around me. I'm so totally wrapped up in everything that's wrong with me that I'm actually getting spastic, and I can't stop it. And like ...


COUNSELOR: And that's sort of scary.


PATIENT: Yeah. Like one night I was getting ready to leave the house, and John was sleeping. It was early in the evening, about four or five. And that fellow called me, and I got so upset because it was like - up to that point, I was like really, I wasn't depressed or anything. And I kind of like really cut him short and hung up, and I was so panic stricken that I left. And I left half the things I was supposed to take at the house, and I was dropping things, and I was just really goofy. And, of course, I realized that that was a specific incident, and I was upset about it. But then the next day, I thought how stupid. Why did I let something like that really bug me to the point that like, you know, I ended getting a headache, and I was sick to my stomach, and I just let it take over my whole being. And why wasn't I strong enough to just say, "Well it happened and nothing happened and just forget about it." [42:30]


COUNSELOR: Like why couldn't you ignore it, and let it go away? Why do you have to keep it - keep running, keep processing it? 


PATIENT: I don't know. I don't know if it was because like - see and then this is when the other things start working. Like I started thinking about goofy things like, see he hadn't called for like about a month. And I began to wonder if I was really happy that he had called, and I didn't want to admit it. So I took it out on him and me and everything that I could take it out on, and that like because like we couldn't talk, I guess I was wondering, "Well what did he want?" And so on and so forth. 


And I'm positive that that must have been it because a week later the very same thing happened. He called again, and John had gone to work that day. And he was standing right behind me when I picked up the telephone, and I pretended like it was the wrong number. Then when he left, I called him back, which at the time I thought that I was doing just to apologize because I did feel like it was really pretty rude. And then I thought like, "Why did you feel like you had to call him? Like you've blanked (ph) the side of your life that never happens; you don't care." And yet I felt like I was still - that I owed him that or something. Like I feel obligated to him. [44:29]


And I think that that's why I'm so bothered with the way that I'm acting because it's like I, like I really am getting too involved with these outside people. And I'm letting it get the better of me because it's like I feel that it's wrong no matter how I try to justify it, and try to like say, "Well things aren't going right and you're frustrated and like if you had a normal marriage and everything was working out the way it should, you wouldn't be thinking these outside distractions." 


COUNSELOR: Like that's what's wrong. I mean like you feel guilty about that or something. That's bad to seek outside distractions. You shouldn't do that.


PATIENT: Not those kinds of distractions. I mean I feel that - but there are, but, I mean, like I - then I start to think, "Well why should I have to find something to preoccupy my time?" If I were happy in what I was doing now, and then, you know, being a wife and that sort of thing, I don't think it would bother me so much. But I don't - I feel very restless and unhappy.


COUNSELOR: Yeah like what you have now is not good, and you're looking outside for other things. [46:37] 


PATIENT: And it's like almost to anybody who comes along. Anybody that gives me the slightest encouragement or attention, it's like I can't let go. And it's really terrible.


COUNSELOR: Yeah, yeah. 


PATIENT: And I think that I know why it's like that. Maybe preferably male than female, and that's because like if I were to get involved like that with a female, I might find myself saying things to her that I don't want to talk about to a stranger, or that she might discover something about me that would be bad. 


COUNSELOR: Yeah so you're holding a lot back there. Like you're afraid, scared something will come out. 


PATIENT: See I have one friend that I'm positive suspects that there is something going wrong in our marriage, and although she's been very diplomatic about it, she has dropped hints. And I've become very defensive with her, and I'm constantly defending things to her. And I don't like it because I feel like when I talk to her, I'm not talking. I'm like creating situations so like to convince her that everything is OK. And I guess with a man, you don't have to do that because they don't search out for nitty things or that they really don't care. I don't know. I - it's like not that. I mean it's really unreal the people that I have thought out and it has just been purely like on a friendship basis. [48:50] 


It's people who are just really genuinely warm, friendly people who I know like John and I both, and want to be friends with us, and I guess it's fortunate for me that that's (chuckle) what they are. And it's not anything that I could ever get involved with in any other way.


COUNSELOR: That's lucky. Then you don't have to worry so much.


PATIENT: Yeah and it's like I feel very relaxed because John doesn't seem overly anxious about my friendship with them because I don't think he feels threatened. And, I don't know, maybe this is just the way I am. I - maybe it'll never change. I don't know. I can't ...


COUNSELOR: It sounds like you would like it to change. 


PATIENT: I would only want it to change because it frightens me. It's like - I'd often, you know, like will have - like I would have this relationship with a good friend. And in my mind, I create other situations, and I guess that's what upsets me. It's sort of like fantasizing an unreal situation that could come true, and I guess maybe because it did one time. [50:56] 


Maybe that's why I'm so shook up now like because for a long time, I would have these thoughts, but it never really upset me because it wasn't real. It was something about waking up in the morning, and you were still there (ph), and you would never - you didn't have to hide anything or be ashamed of anything because it was just in your mind. But then when something becomes real and it just like, it starts overwhelming you and you start wondering, "Well like when's it going to happen again or quit it." And I can't - I just simply, I can't relax, and I can't enjoy anything. It's just like I'm in some kind of a thing, and it's driving me crazy. I can't stand it because I'm so unhappy, and it's all me. I can't blame it on anybody.


COUNSELOR: Just you.


PATIENT: I feel that way. I really do. I don't feel that, you know, I can say that's it's anything that John did or has done.


COUNSELOR: Yeah that's really a lot. Like it's just you, and that's all on you. Like that's heavy. That's a lot of stuff to carry around. 


PATIENT: I just can't, I can't - I guess that's why I can't cope with it because every other time that anything has gone wrong in my life, I've always found somebody else to share the blame with. It's been very convenient. 


COUNSELOR: This time. This time it's just you. It feels like something really heavy sitting on your shoulders like just keeping you down. 


PATIENT: And I don't know how I can - I can't forget it. It's like something that's with me all the time, and I go through periods where I just, I relax and everything's fine, and then I just go right back into it again. And I've been like trying to figure out all kinds of different solutions like, just like changing our whole way of living. But I don't think that - that wouldn't help. I mean [that'd be] (ph) ridiculous to feel that way. [53:35]


COUNSELOR: Like this would follow you.


PATIENT: Because like too, I really been pushing moving. Well that's not going to solve anything because I feel now that all my hang-ups about everything I like in the group of people that we know or are associated with, but there would just be another group of people somewhere else. And I just - I, like what I really and truly want to find is like just some - I mean there, I feel that there must have been something there at one time between us that was strong enough that I was able, or that I really didn't have to get this wound up in my own preoccupation of myself. That's not there anymore. I don't - I can't - it's like in some ways we still do things and act with each other like we always have. But in other ways, there just is something really missing. And I think that some of it is - I think in a way it's starting to come through on some levels. [55:26]


Sort of like things like, you know, John said, well, that I could go to Texas with these two gay friends of ours for five days. That really upset me that he would say I could go, and I'm sure it's not - it didn't upset me because I was angry that he wasn't jealous or anything like that because I know and he knows that there would be no reason to have those feelings. But just the fact that he would like OK something for me to do and not think anything of it. I - that really bothered me. 


COUNSELOR: Like you could go away without him and that would be perfectly all right. Where does that leave you? 


PATIENT: Back to my preoccupation because that what happens then. I become like, I don't know, maybe it's like I start thinking, "Well maybe this is what he wants." Like a split level kind of marriage that would be suitable to each of us, but I can't honestly believe that. I just can't because he's so hung up morally, more than he'd ever want to admit, that I can't believe that that's the type of relationship he would be looking for. 


COUNSELOR: On the other hand, he's sending you off to do that. So it doesn't make any sense. [57:24]


PATIENT: I guess that, you know, like we didn't even really talk about it, and it was sort of like I was afraid to bring it up because I don't think I would really mind going. Maybe, well I felt maybe this is what I would need like to get away from him for a short period of time and understand my true feelings about this whole thing. That maybe I would - that I will find something that will convince me that this is - I don't know. It's like, it's so funny because I really am very dependent on John for a lot of things and very confident of some aspects of our relationship. But it doesn't seem like a normal relationship to me, and I think that's really what bothers me more than anything.


COUNSELOR: Doesn't seem like what should be. 


PATIENT: Yeah.


COUNSELOR: Or what you want it to be. 


PATIENT: I guess it's not really - I don't know if I ever really had any ideas of what it would be like to be married, but I guess I never really thought it would be this way. [59:16]


COUNSELOR: This is not what you expected.


PATIENT: No not at all. It's in some ways like I can see our marriage better than other (inaudible at 59:32 - audio gap) and even better than my own family. My family - my mother and father but in other ways, it just - maybe that's the whole thing. Maybe it's not supposed to be completely perfect. 


COUNSELOR: But it doesn't seem right either. 


PATIENT: I guess maybe if it was anything other than the sex, well, and even the communicating, I guess like you don't always have to be able to communicate totally. But I guess maybe if it was any other aspect than just the sexual aspects, I wouldn't be that concerned or maybe that hung-up on it. But that just seems so totally wrong to me and that it's unreal. I can't believe that our - that it's gone on as long as it has. And I think that, sometimes I think maybe I've convinced myself that it doesn't really bother me, and that I don't really need it. But then again, sometimes I feel that maybe that's why what's happening to me now is happening and that I'm not connecting the two of them together, and maybe they should be connected together. 


COUNSELOR: That you do need that; that you need sex and love and communication and everything, and that's why you're depressed and all these things are happening to you. [61:39]


PATIENT: I think so. I really do because I think that maybe like if that was different, then other things would be different. There wouldn't be the temper outburst and there wouldn't be this constant longing to find entertainment in other sources and to constantly be with other people. 


COUNSELOR: And like that happens because you're not getting what you need, and you're not getting what should happen in a marriage. You should make love, and you should be able to talk to each other. You're not getting that, or to do things like just together where it doesn't include anybody else. So now it's like, of course, you should want to go out and get - and be with other people. You're not getting what you need. 


PATIENT: I mean we can't even sit and spend an evening at home. It's like we really either - it's me or it's him, you know, like, "Well I'm going to go out for a while because I'm tense" and this sort of thing. And it was never like that before, but it's sort of like just spend an evening together doing anything. It just doesn't seem real anymore, and for a long time it was usually John who would say, "Well let's do this or let's do that or go here or go there." And now I find that I'm doing it too. [63:46]


COUNSELOR: Yeah just getting more and more distant from each other and more isolated. 


PATIENT: And it's actually amazing to me that it hasn't completely destroyed the whole relationship. That's why I feel that there has to still be something there. That, you know, is ...


COUNSELOR: That things could get so bad ...


PATIENT: Yeah.


COUNSELOR: And there still should be something like that means something. 


PATIENT: Because in every other way, we do still get along beautifully. And I think we do have very strong feelings for one another and really care for each other a great deal. And maybe that's why we have been able to stick this out because up until now, maybe that's why we were afraid to ever talk about it because we were afraid that it would explode into something we couldn't handle. 


COUNSELOR: Yeah that would be really big. 


PATIENT: But we still, we - there's still other things happening, and I guess that's really what bothers me is that it's still going along at the same level that it was going on six months ago. Well ...


COUNSELOR: And you know that there are all these things that you're sitting on. 


PATIENT: And six months ago, we didn't talk about it. Now we talk about it, and still nothing's happening, and I don't know if it's going to change. It's like unreal. [65:39]


COUNSELOR: Yeah and it's like its so frustrating and so much the same that it just seems absurd. I mean you just have to laugh at it. 


PATIENT: Like it's, I mean, just - it is finding things. Like we told some friends that we were thinking about staring a family, and they said, "Well what have you been doing to prevent it up until now?" And it's like you just sit there and you really want to say, "Well we haven't had to do anything." Really conversations, I think that's when it really hits home is when a stranger or an outsider does say something to you about it. 


And it really makes you aware of the fact that there is something that isn't right and I, I don't know, I can't - I just can not imagine that John could just go on indefinitely and let this happen. And sometimes it frightens me because I keep thinking that maybe something is more really wrong than either of us are aware of; something deeper beyond our relationship with one another. And I can't, I don't know, I can't go into that now because [we've been] (ph), but it's depressing because I think about it sometimes.


COUNSELOR: I was thinking if like it's really hard for you, and you don't really have anybody really to talk to, would it be good to come more than once a week? I mean it really sounds like a lot built up.


PATIENT: I don't - I don't know if I could come twice a week though that's the only problem. I have - the only nights that I could come would be Monday, Tuesday, and Wednesday, and ...


COUNSELOR: (Phone rings). [Hang on] (ph). Hello? [68:03] 


END TRANSCRIPT
