<font size="4"><b>Into the Unknown</b></font>

<i>This is the only contribution in the book that dates from
more than five years ago. It dates, in fact, from 1944.
The author then put down her experiences in a manuscript,
which for the succeeding ten years circulated
around publishers without success. It was eventually
sent to Christopher Johnson and they decided to incorporate
it in this book on account of its revealing
description of the feelings of a sensitive person on entry
into a somewhat old-fashioned hospital</i>.


WHEN we arrived at the hospital in June, 1944, and
I saw the tall iron gates, the sweep of the lawns
beyond, and, in the distance, the low rambling building of
grey stone behind the encircling wallsmy heart failed me.


I wanted desperately to turn backbut the heavy
gates swung open, a porter stood waitingit was too late
now.


We drove in silence to the main entrance where a
white clad figure waited to receive us. She wore an
imposing capI thought she must certainly be the
matron, but I later discovered she was merely a sister.
Advancing somewhat uncertainly, she studied us closely
for a moment, before asking: "Who is the patient?"


I was surprised and relieved she found it necessary to
ask. As no one else answered, I said I was.


The sister led the way into a dark, stone-flagged hall,

[p. <i>82</i>]

"You will wait here," she said. "The doctor will see
you soon." I remember the rustle of her skirts and the
dying echo of her footstepsthen we were alone in the
deserted hall.


I hoped we should not have long to wait, reminded by
gnawing pangs of hunger I had eaten nothing since
breakfast. The midday meal had remained untouched,
interrupted by the doctor's visit, and, later, events had
moved so quickly there had been no thought of food, until,
at tea-time, the untimely arrival of the taxian hour
before it was duehad thrown everyone into a panic.
Now, suddenly feeling faint, I looked anxiously around for
a seatbut the vestibule was bare.


I supported myself against a pillar and tried to compose
myself, to await calmly the sister's return from those
unknown regions where, in imagination, I had already
followed her, but my trembling hands would not be still,
and I could hear the throb of my wildly beating heart.
Somewhere in the stillness, a door crashed, like the sound
of a bursting shell: mocked by cascading echoes. I
breathed an inward prayer, nothing is ever as bad as we
expect, I told myself: the darkest hour before the dawn
then silence encompassed us.


The moments lengthened into infinity. An ancient
smell of damp and decay pervaded the air with a mysterious
atmosphere of its own. I felt we had lost our
way and wandered, by chance, into another world,
haunted by ghostly voices and disembodied spirits, where
silence held us spell-bound, and time stood still. But that, I
knew, could only be illusion, these fleeting moments would
soon be gone, and I should be alone in this strange place.


I stole a glance at Richard and Margaret, standing

[p. <i>83</i>]

In the midst of my reflections, the distant sound of a
closing door vibrated through the silence; a moment later,
the sister reappeared.


"Come with me. The doctor will see you now," she
announced briskly, retracing her steps with a flutter of
starched skirts.


We followed across the hall, our heels clattering on the
flags; heaving and swelling, billowing and melting,
dissolving, before my eyes.


Stopping at a door deep in the shadows, the sister
tapped on the panels and ushered us into a spacious,
sunlit room, where, seated before a desk, the white-coated
doctor awaited us. An elderly man with aquiline
features and the impassive expression of his profession, I
noticed, as he regarded us thoughtfully, the fine dark
eyes, strikingly contrasted with the grey hair; sensing
beneath the mask, that indefinable something that inspires
confidence. The doctor continued his scrutinyI
I was getting rather drowsy. After the gloom of the hall,
the light from the window seemed unnaturally bright.
My tired eyes were closing, I felt quite dazed. Everything
was slipping awaythe room and its contents receded
in the distance. I wanted a seat, but none had been
offered. A murmur of voices droned on in the background,
I drifted into a confused dream in which the
doctor and sister had become inextricably mixed, then
everything forgotten, I was sinking into unconsciousness

[p. <i>84</i>]

Without introduction he spoke. "Why are you here?"


"Because Dr. Moorhead said I must come," I answered
falteringly.


"Why did he say so?"


"Because I took some tablets."


"What kind of tablets?"


"Sleeping tablets."


"How many did you take?"


"All of them."


"How many was that?"


"I did not count them but someone said there were
twenty-four."


"I see. Why did you take the tablets?"


"Because I could not face the future."


The doctor continued his questions. "What did you
take?"


"I don't know. Some narcotic."


"Did you sleep when you had taken them?"


"No, but the time passed very quickly."


At this reply the doctor and sister exchanged amused
glances. Then after a moment's silence the former repeated
his question. "Why did you do it?"


My voice failed. I could not answer. The thoughts, that
a moment before had been rushing madly through my
head, suddenly stopped. I noticed, as I groped for the
elusive words, curious glances searching my face: then
they faded. A familiar face rose before me, I wanted to

[p. <i>85</i>]

The doctor spoke again; his words penetrating the mists
closing about me, bringing me back to reality.


"What was the trouble about?"


"I don't know, but it was not a delusion."


I know that in this place it must be difficult to know what
is true. I know Dr. Moorhead thinks I have delusions,
but indeed I have not. My appeal was desperate. If
only I could convince him of the truth.


The doctor did not answer, but continued to regard me
intently. The sister now came forward with a form for me
to sign. "Will you sign that you are willing to obey the
hospital rules?" she asked, offering me a pen.


"What are they?" I enquired


For a moment she hesitated, seeming reluctant to tell
me, or perhaps she herself did not know. She answered at
length: "Patients must obey the doctor's orders and be in
bed by seven-thirty p.m. They must not send letters out
of the hospital by patients or their friends: all letters must
be posted in the hospital boxes."


"Very well," I agreed, "I will sign."


This was more difficult than I expected, for my hand
refused to obey my will; the pen slipped from my fingers,
and I was glad of the sister's help to complete the form.
Strange, I could not do such a simple thing as sign my name!


The sister asked to see my handbag, which was searched
for forbidden articles. As it contained only two half-crowns
and a comb, these were not removed.

[p. <i>86</i>]

Now the dreaded moment had arrived. "How long
must I stay here?" I asked the sister anxiously.


"Until the doctor thinks you well enough to leave.
You may do so by giving three days' notice, but the
doctor does not like patients to leave without his permission."


"Very well, I will not leave without permission," I
turned away. A nurse had come to fetch my case and
stood waiting.


I could not face farewells. "Don't say goodbye. Don't
kiss me." I turned on my heels and followed the nurse
from the room.


At last we reached the ward. I immediately noticed
that all the windows were heavily barred, and outside
baffle walls obscured most of the light. Against the green
painted walls were packed rows of beds, so closely together.
There was not room to stand between them.


Not only were they around the walls, but down the
centre of the room as well: a double line, head to head.


The nurse escorted me to a bed at the far end, facing a
row of doors where it was not quite so crowded, and, after
fetching a screen, she told me to undress. As I did so,
my clothes were packed away, along with those I had
brought. Instead of my own nightdress, I was given a
coarse hospital gown of rough calico, minus several
buttons.


I looked for a locker, but without success. There
appeared to be none in this hospital; the reason soon
abundantly clear; they were quite unnecessarywe had
nothing to keep in themeverything being shared, even
the solitary face cloth which was used for a number of
other purposes, a subject on which my feelings became
very strong.


Once in bed, it seemed impossible to find any comfort.

[p. <i>87</i>]

The nurse looked shocked, raised an incredulous eyebrow,
but said nothing. I subsided rather crestfallen.


When she had gone, I looked aboutthe screens had
been removedand all around were figures rolling to and
fro, most of them old people: their mask-like faces frightened
me. My left hand neighbour, a huge, raw-boned
woman with enormous hands and arms spread out on the
bed beside her, rolled her head from side to side, muttering
continuously. As I watched, she sat up in bed, her bushy
white hair sticking out around her, looking so wild, that
shuddering, I hid my head. My bed began to shake
looking up again, I saw her standing over me, supporting
herself on my bed.


Muttering unintelligibly, she bent forward to gaze
into my face, until a nurse catching sight of her called out:
"Into bed, Mrs. Moss, into bed, Mrs. Moss." Reluctantly,
she obeyed, but only to jump out again, the moment the
nurse had turned her back. I knew nothing of her condition,
she may have been quite harmless, but I was terrified
of this crazy old womanwhile she hung over me grimacing
and rolling her eyes, I could have no rest.


At last, to my intense relief, two nurses arrived who
returned Mrs. Moss to bed and tucked her in firmly.
The nurses came towards me and stood at the foot of my
bed, impersonal as ice-maidens in their white uniforms.
I wondered what they were going to do, as they regarded
me speculatively. I hoped they would stop and have a

[p. <i>88</i>]

I gazed uncomprehendingly at the nurses with all the
bewilderment of an infant falsely suspected of wrongdoing,
but powerless to defend itself. Seeking to divine
in their guarded expressions the vital and mysterious
knowledge with which they were armed.


"She has no scars," remarked one of the nurses eventually.
"At least, I can't find any."


Her voice sounded bored. The other paused and looked
at me.


"Have you had any operations?" she inquired helpfully,
addressing me directly for the first time.


"No, Nurse, I'm afraid not," I answered faintly, then,
abashed by this disclosure of my lamentable lack of distinction,
I revealed two small scars on my wrist, which
were duly noted before the nurses moved away.


It had become rather quiet, the patients seemed to be
settling down for the night. I was very hungry. When, I
wondered, would supper be served? One by one, I watched
the day nurses leave and the night nurse come on duty; a
tall well-built woman of middle age, who, to my surprise,
prepared for her long vigil by drawing the blackout
curtains and switching on the central light, although it was
June and broad daylight. With all the light of day

[p. <i>89</i>]

After an hour or two of tossing about, the door opened
to admit the night sister and a doctor, to make their
evening round. I noticed on the journey through the ward,
that some of the patients were given sleeping-draughts or
tablets, and made up my mind that, when she passed the
bed, I would ask the sister if I might have some. But
when, eventually, she approached in all the dignity of her
lofty status, evinced by the goffered cap, my heart failed
me. and, had she not stopped to speak, I should have let
her pass. My timid request being granted, I received a

[p. <i>90</i>]

Closing my eyes, I struggled to suppress a dreadful
desire to scream. I was faint with hunger, my head
ached badly, I longed for rest. Sleep. That was what I
needed. Hadn't the doctor told me so that very day. Yet
where should I find it? I could remember his actual words:
"You'll have the best holiday you've ever had, and all the
rest you need."


I looked again at the crowded ward, at the jumble of
beds in the centre, like a picture once seen of the great
plague, when churches had been used as hospitals and as
many cases as possible had been packed in. How should
I ever endure it? All through the night there was a constant
commotion, as one or other of the patients would
rise and creep about the ward. When the nurse, dozing by
the fire, discovered the culprit, she would shout at the
top of her voice, but some were obstinate, others lost in a
world apart. Then would the nurse go after them and
pull their hair. She would shake and slap them like
great babies, and, throwing them on the iron bedsteads,

[p. <i>91</i>]

"You old devils," she shouted. "Do as I say, or it will
be the worse for you."


At last, came a chink of light in the blackout curtains.
Dawn was breaking, soon it would be day, useless, now,
trying to sleep. I resigned the attempt in despair, wondering
how long I should have to wait before I received
some food, how I should endure the long hours still to
pass before breakfast? As the chinks of light grew
brighter, Nurse began to bustle about, washing the bed-cases,
whilst those more capable, attended to their own
toilet. With only one face-cloth provided for the entire
ward, what could be done? I had not been permitted to
keep my own toilet articles which had been returned with
my other belongings. Fortunately, I still possessed a
handkerchief. After my scanty toilet, I returned to bed.
At length, I heard the chink of crockery and the breakfast
trolly appeared. I watched with feverish impatience, the
nurses bringing round the cups, hoping they would soon
come my way. My head was throbbing violently and my
throat hurt. Breakfast, when it arrived, consisted of two
thick slices of bread and margarine, with a boiled egg,
accompanied by a cup of watery tea. No knives having
been provided, I had to wait until one could be fetched,
but when the nurse on her return, opened the eggit
was bad! She hastily departed, promising to find another.
That egg was not very fresh eithernot an enjoyable

[p. <i>92</i>]

But with this transformation scene still before my
astonished eyes, the door opened to admit the doctor I
had previously seen. Walking through the ward, he
stopped to speak to one or two of the more sensible
patients, then drew up a chair near my bed.


"How are you this morning, Mrs. Locke?" he politely
inquired, regarding me attentively.


I longed with all my heart to speak freely, to say that,
with my eyes burning from lack of sleep and my head
aching, I was becoming more and more depressed, but I
knew, it was useless to complain, nothing a patient said
made any impression. It had filled me with dismay to
find the nurses ignored us and had obviously been instructed
to disregard everything we said. They treated us
like deaf mutes, in some cases, it must be admitted, not an
unreasonable assumption.


"Now tell me, what is the trouble?"


The doctor's voice was soft and gentle, somehow, I felt
a little comforted. Haltingly, I spoke of persistent headaches
and sleepless nights that had made life intolerable.
Nights when my aching eyes had stared into the darkness

[p. <i>93</i>]

With quivering fingers I opened the box, to gaze at
the small white tablets so easy to take; or so I thought!
The footsteps halted. Someone was knocking at the door.
"What are you doing?" a voice demanded. I tried to reply,
but the words wouldn't come. The darkness of despair
swept over me. An icy stream stole through my veins.
Dear Heavens! What had I done? I saw the room
through a thick white mist. The voice seemed faint and
far away like a voice in a dream. Nothing remained but
the box, empty in my hand.


"Did they break down the door?" asked the doctor.


"No. I opened it myself."


"Why did you do it?"


I had a strange sensation of waiting to hear myself
speak. I might have been two different persons, I had no
idea what I was going to say.


"I took them because I said I would, though of course
I realize that doesn't make sense."


"Then why did you do it?" he repeated.


"I suppose I was overwhelmed."


"Was that the reason, or because you said you would do
it?" he insisted. Anxiously, I waited for my own voice to
reply.

[p. <i>94</i>]

"A little of both, I think."


"I see." The doctor's voice suddenly changed:


"Well planned, wasn't it?" he said sternly.


Silently, he searched my face, then turned on his heel
and walked away.


Except for a few bed-ridden old women at the far end, I
was alone in the ward: the nurses busying themselves out
of sight in the kitchen. When I had been admitted my
mind had been in such a turmoil, I feared it would be
impossible to lie still. Watching the nurses going about
their duties had soothed my restlessness, but now that this
distraction had gone, it was more than I could bear. The
doctor's questioning had revived my mind to full activity,
and I fell to reliving the events of the past few days.


After taking the tablets, I had lain on my bed awaiting
the sleep I expected, quite calm and happy, but not in the
least drowsy. Edward who seemed unable to believe I
had taken them, kept coming and going every few minutes,
asking if it were true. As time passed and sleep did not
come, I rose and went to the kitchen to prepare the midday
meal. Bending over the oven, I began to feel a little
dizzy: a chill crept up my limbs and a numbness in my
temples made me suddenly cry out. I was glad to return
to bed. Edward came in and I begged him not to leave me:
"Won't you say goodbye?" I cried. He looked at me in
sudden alarm saying:


"You didn't really take those things, did you?"


Once again I assured him that I had, and immediately
he rushed out to fetch a doctor. I still felt quite calm, but
sleep did not come. My head felt cramped, as though
imprisoned in a box. I lay there dazed and stupid until

[p. <i>95</i>]

The doctor, pushing me into a chair, forced a long
rubber tube down my throat. This was my first aquaintance
with a stomach pump and a miserable experience it is.
It had not occurred to me that such a thing was possible.
In my ignorance I had imagined that, once having taken
the tablets, that would be final.


Furious that my effort had been in vain I pulled the
tube from my mouth, but the doctor and his assistant
were too much for me, and I was powerless to prevent
them using it. After forcing black coffee through my
reluctant teeth, the doctor left me, weak and exhausted.
As time passed, people came at intervals urging me to go
to hospital, to which I would not consentpreferring to
die at home, if it were to be.


Presently a stranger appeared at my bedside. He inquired
solicitiously after my health and asked if I would
go to hospital. I wondered vaguely who this stranger might
be, and why he should be so concerned about me, thinking,
with faint surprise, he must be a very sympathetic person
to take such an interest in someone unknown to him;
casting around in the blankness of my mind for a suitable
reply. But I could find no words. My mind was locked and
silent, and I had lost the key.


I began to notice a strange sensation of weight and
oppression; a disinclination to move; as though my limbs
were filled with lead and my head with saw-dust. I
lifted a hand that seemed heavy and wooden as the branch
of a tree, to glance at it curiously. It looked no different,
but I quickly dropped it, unable to sustain its weight. I
couldn't understand why it should be so, and felt rather
frightened. Edward came in and I determined to ask him

[p. <i>96</i>]

Horrified, I sprang up in bed. I told the stranger I
refused to leave. I was tired and ill, that was all. He
asked a few more questions, then rose and spoke to
Edward, and I felt the relief of his words flooding over
me, like rain on parched earth.


"I cannot take this lady against her will. There seems
to be nothing wrong with herI cannot take her if she
refuses to come." With these words he withdrew, after
wishing me good-day.


The mumble of voices drifted away and I fell into a
fitful sleepmy last for many nights: to wake in the
morning dazed and stupified, shocked at the thought of
my narrow escape. Later that morning my own doctor
came. He listened to my story, and thento my horror
and amazementsaid I was mad. Shall I ever forget that
moment of wild despair? The agony was unbearable.
Was I really mad? How could I possibly tell? I was
trembling in every limb, lost in a bottomless pit from
which there was no escape.


When the doctor said a specialist was coming to see
me, I was glad, and eagerly awaited his arrival. But when
he came, I knew from the ill-concealed impatience with
which he listened to my story, that even before a word
had been spoken, everything had been decided.


He rose, and with a wave of his hand lightly dismissing
my words, and pointed out that, as my husband had
collapsed with shock, all responsibility had fallen on the
children.

[p. <i>97</i>]

"Too great a burden for young shoulders," he said,
and advised me to come here.


To that I could find no answer, and so I agreed, little
knowing what to expect; visualizing quiet wards with
soft-footed nurses tending their charges.


My reverie was interrupted by the arrival of dinner, a
small quantity of blackish potatoes, with a little cabbage
and boiled cod; a small portion of suet pudding followed.
I felt ravenously hungry and could have eaten twice as
much. So, it appeared, could all the others; not a scrap
of food remained, and this state of semi-starvation seemed
likely to be permanent. I am a vegetarian and eat neither
meat nor fish; this I explained to the nurse without avail.
I must take it or leave it. She was a nice girl, but could
do nothing about the food.


Her voice was soft and lilting, unlike those of the local
inhabitants, and I amused myself wondering what part
of Britain she came from. All the nurses had voices of the
same soft quality, but I could detect no trace of accent to
give a clue to their origin. Finally, I asked one of the young
probationers, who had black silky hair and brown eyes.


"From the West Coast of Ireland," she answered in her
attractive voice.


Regretfully, I watched her leave. The doctors and
nurses were the only sane persons here, and I felt I
must keep contact with normal people or lose my own
sanity, for, by this time, I was sure I was not insane, but
I soon would be, if I stayed here much longer.


Tea at four, and our last meal of the day, consisted of
two thick slices of bread and margarine and a plain bun.
No jam or marmalade was ever provided, only the barest
necessities. We did have butter occasionally, but after the
first morning no eggs ever came my way; although from
certain windows, even in this wartime summer, hens and

[p. <i>98</i>]

All through the day, I dreaded the night, and, when
evening came and the doctors made their rounds, I again
asked for a sedative, explaining that the last had been
ineffective. Receiving from the sister two large pills,
which, because of my sore throat, I found difficult to
swallow. I settled myself and closed my eyes, hoping
sleep would come before darkness and the night nurse
arrived. But it was not to be. She was reading the
evening paper, when, suddenly sitting up in a panic, I
cried frantically:


"Quick, Nurse, bring me a basin."


"Shut your mouth, or I will beat you," she answered
without moving. Anxious to avoid trouble, I hung over
the bed, unable to prevent myself vomiting.


The nurse hurried up apologetically. "I thought you
were having me on," she said, swabbing the floor. She
went off, leaving me faint and weary, my head throbbing
with pain. But afterwards she was very nice to me, and
as far as that went, to anyone else who gave no trouble,
but if any of the old women so much as sat up in bed,
she would beat them in a most heartless manner, in
striking contrast to the relief nurse who took her place.
This nurse who had not the slightest difficulty in keeping
peace in the ward, was as gentle and kind as possible with
these poor old souls. I suppose the real explanation of
the night nurse's ill temper, was that she had a home and
a child to attend to, by day, whilst her nights were spent
here. She had to get her sleep in some way, and the poor
old people suffered.

[p. <i>99</i>]

That night she walked round the ward to the far end
where the bed-ridden cases were. One of these, an old
Irish woman, weak and emaciated, with a large beak
nose, was her special prey. Keeping at a safe distance
from those claw-like hands, Nurse Brown began to taunt
the poor old lady. I could not hear all she said. The old
woman reaching out with her long arms, clawed at her
enemy's apron, cursing and screaming in a paroxym of
rage. The nurse laughed, and kept at arm's length,
mocking and tantalizing the old woman until others joined
in. Soon the ward was in an uproar: all my hopes of sleep
had gone. Another night of screams and groans began.
It was even worse than the night before, and, when at
midnight the night-sister came, she fetched a doctor to
give injections to the worse cases. As the screams of the
demented echoed down the ward, beads of perspiration
broke out on my forehead. Sick with misery I longed to
be away, but should I ever be able to leave? How should
I get strong here, where sleep was impossible?


Six o'clock at last. Bright spears of light outlined the
blackout curtains. The nurse bestirring herself, drew them
back and opened the windowshow thankful I was for a
little air! Even though the harsh grey light fell upon my
eyes with the sharpness of a knife and my burning head
grew worse with every movement. I noticed that my
mouth too, had become very sorethe gums swollen and
bleedingI should have liked some water, but I dared
not ask.


When at eight o'clock breakfast arrived, although desperately
hungry, I could scarcely eat with my painful
mouth, but somehow I managed it. The food, unpalatable
as it was. revived me a little, and I remarked to the nurse
who had brought it that, now it had become quieter, I
might be able to sleep, if only I had a soft pillow. Some

[p. <i>100</i>]

The doctor passed from one to another, stopping for a
word here and there, then, turning to me, asked:


"How are you this morning, Mrs. Locke?"


To his greeting I replied that again I had not slept.
He looked fixedly at me, thinking, I supposed, I had not
spoken the truth, then, turning to the nurse beside him,
abruptly commanded: "Get her up," and passed on his
way. The nurse hurried off, quickly returning with a
bundle of clothing which she spread on the bed for my
inspection. "Will you wear this?" she asked, holding out
a hideous dress and a short red coat for my approval. I
had been longing to sleep on my new soft pillow, and
gazed in dismay at the garments displayed.


"May I stay here?" I anxiously asked.


"No, you must get up now, it's doctor's orders."


I stepped reluctantly from my bed and began to dress,
shuddering at the ugly frock, which, though clean, had
no fastening on the crumpled neck opening and looked as
though it had not been ironed. All the garments seemed
to be rough-dried. The nurse found a safety-pin for the
front of my dress and a pair of black shoes, and when
with shaking uncertain hands, I had finished dressing, I
tried to help her make the bed, but my clumsy hands would
not work properlyseeming not to belong to me. What
would they do with me now, I wondered?


"Come," said the nurse. "Into the day room."


Trembling nervously, I followed her from the ward. It
opened into a lofty room containing a number of long
tables. Chairs stood around the walls; a piano in one

[p. <i>101</i>]

As I sat wondering what to do, a little woman whom I
had not noticed, spoke to me. She had a bright bird-like
face, quite unlike those I had now become accustomed to
seeing.


"You're new here?" she inquired in a cheerful voice.


"Yes," I replied, glad to have such an agreeable companion.


"How long?" she asked.


"Two days!"


"I've been here three weeks," she announced. "Come
over here and sit with us," she invited. I followed her to
a seat near the window where she introduced me to someone
called Dorothy with bright intelligent eyes. We
sat and talked, her conversation confirming my first impression
that at least here was one person whose reason was
not impaired. What was she doing in such a place? I
wondered. She told me her husband had deserted her.
She had been working to keep her child and would have
to find a fresh post when she left hospital. I learnt she
had met an American, stationed in this country, with
whom she had fallen in love. They hoped to marry when
she obtained a divorce. Then without warning the young

[p. <i>102</i>]

My mind was becoming clearer. It is the law of this
country that a suspected person is considered innocent
until proved guilty: the reverse seemed to operate here.
With a flash of insight, I saw that all those persons who
attempt suicide and fail are deemed insane, and, if not
charged, are sent to a mental home. It is true that a number
of mental cases do commit suicide, but to treat everyone
who attempts suicide as mad, is outrageous. Many
unfortunate people have worries and difficulties more than
they can face. Because death seems to them preferable,
there is no reason in branding them insane.


I heard the sound of voices as the door opened, admitting
Dr. Heinz, the foreign doctor.


Speaking first to Dorothy and one or two others, whose
appearance distinguished them from the rest of the inmates,
he then turned to me.


"How do you feel now, Mrs. Locke?" he inquired.


"My mouth, Doctor, look."


Blood was oozing from every tooth and I had swollen
glands. "My mouth is so sore I can hardly eat."

[p. <i>103</i>]

"Yes, I see, I will arrange for you to see the dentist
this afternoon," he replied, "meanwhile Nurse will give
you a mouthwash."


I thanked him, wondering what more trouble lay ahead.
Should I have to have all my teeth out, like the woman
I had seen this morning, in the wheel chair? The nurse
had been pushing her across the ward, and although quite
young, she was a complete wreck, a toothless hollow-eyed
creature, too weak to walk.


Suddenly, a thought struck me. "Doctor," I cried,
"shall I be charged in court?"


He regarded me kindly, and answered, "No. Are you
afraid of going to prison?"


"No, Doctor," I replied. "If I can stand this, I could
stand that." He looked at me compassionately.


"Don't worry, you will not be troubled."


I thought it over for a long time. My mind seemed
unusually bright and clear, and I began to perceive a
number of things. They came to me in brilliant flashes of
insight, not in a connected way, but like a flash of lightning
my mind lit up; without the need for thought, everything
seemed clear.


I realized I was in a state of hypnosis induced by the
drug and intensified by fasting. This was the state of
mind of penitents, when, after prayer and fasting, they
claimed to be converted. I could see many things long
hidden. The age-old practice of fasting, a feature of the
Roman Church, would, if prolonged, produce this clairvoyant
state. The hours of cloistered meditation would
invert the eyes, as the eyes of these poor people were
inverted. With this difference: whilst the religious
meditate on some aspect of their creed, here, each one
returned again and again to their own Gethsemane,
eternally reliving the cause of their living death.

[p. <i>104</i>]

I reconsidered my own position. Why should it be
accepted that all suicides were insane? And like the answer
to a prayer came the thought into my mind: because every
living creature clings to life, and when that instinct is in
abeyance, we are not normal. Therefore in behaving in
this way, I could blame no one for thinking me insane, but
must prove myself not to be, by accepting with humility
my place in this community. This went through my mind
while the doctor was speaking to Florence, the bright
little woman who had first spoken to me.


When he had gone, she came over to talk to me and I
heard her story. She lived in a small town where her
parents kept a little shop. For nearly twenty years, an old
friend had been courting her, but, with ageing parents
dependent on her, marriage was still remote. One of her
relatives, noticing a swelling on Florence's temple, had
persuaded her to see a doctor. Without telling her his
verdict, or in any way preparing her, the relative had said
that they were going for a drive. She had been brought
here by a trick.


Poor Florence! The doctors had told her she was
suffering from an abscess requiring an operation. This
information had been calmly accepted, but not the way
she had been tricked. She was prepared to face her trouble
with fortitude, but she felt betrayed.


The little group around the window fell silent. We
could find no words to express ourselves, deeply as we
felt for Florence. We could see the other side: the frightened
old people, the rather stupid relative, the only one to
deal with a situation quite beyond her. A dreadful
predicament for any relative, yet how much worse for
Florence, nerving herself for an operation, which, if
unsuccessful, might mean a lifetime in a mental hospital. I
wondered if she realized this: she seemed such a simple soul.

[p. <i>105</i>]

For three weeks, she had been in this strange place,
far from home, without letters or visitors, for her franc
knew nothing of her plight; managing to keep quite cheerful,
though how she did so, I could not understand! I
could only surmise from the bright little face, from which
the shadows had soon dispersed, an unawareness of her
position, perhaps resulting from the very nature of her
illness.


While Florence had been speaking, I had been watching
one poor old granny, with really beautiful wavy white
hair, who walked constantly backward and forward, all
the time crying as though her heart would break; her
face puckered like a child's; tears streaming down her
cheeks. Once, long ago, she must have been a pretty girl,
for her good looks were still to be seen. Clutching a grey
shawl about her shoulders, she continued her ceaseless
walking, up and down the length of the room. As I
watched the door opened and one of the nurses entered.
Rather a plain girl, with a thin pale face, who, when she
saw the old lady weeping, crossed the room, and putting
her arms around her, kissed her on both cheeks, from
which the tears fell.


She fondled this not very clean old woman, as if she were
a little child, her face no longer plain, but suffused with a
gentle radiance, bent over the poor old soul who might
have been her own mother.


"There, there, Granny; there, never mind" she
whispered gently, as with her own handkerchief, she
wiped the tears away.


The old lady's face lit with a faint smile. Taking a
sweet from her pocket, the nurse put it in the old lady's
mouth. For a little while she was happy, in the midst of
her misery, just for a little while. Then the nurse had to
leave, and the old lady resumed her pacing, as though she

[p. <i>106</i>]

I began to wonder if these people were here because
someone had failed them. Surely, if anyone cared for this
old lady, she would not be here!


Until now, I had been afraid to look closely at my fellow
inmates, turning away in horror, feeling I should scream
at the sight of their blank faces staring through me. This
hysteria was strong and difficult to control, but now that
I felt not so isolatedfinding others like myself who were
able to behave reasonablyI managed to look about and
observe the different types whose life I was to share.


Seated round the walls as they had been for the past
three or four hours, were the greater numbertwenty or
thirty of themstaring into space with vacant immovable
eyes. Others, like the old lady, walked continuously
back and forth, muttering and sometimes shouting to
themselves, all occupied with their own problemsreal
or imaginaryquite unnoticed by each other. Some
conducted long conversations with unseen friends or
enemies, more frequently the latter. Strangely enough,
those who were dumb in the daytime, the moment sleep
came upon them let flow a stream of words, gabbling unceasingly
all night long, waking in the morning to resume
their customary voiceless trance, while the noisy ones
became quiet at night. These were generally rather
quarrelsome, and judging from their wild expressions and
menacing attitudes, inclined to be dangerous.


Knowing nothing of the subject, I tried to classify
these people, but what puzzled me more than anything,
was why were they so mixedand what I and the
other apparently normal persons were doing in this
company!


It seemed to me, that anyone could tell the difference

[p. <i>107</i>]

Florence needed surgery, but none the less it was dreadful
that she must be incarcerated in such a place as this,
before her mind had become in any way affected.


Some of the patients were incontinent, and to make
matters worse, the heavily barred windows of stained
glass, could be opened only a few inches at the top: useless
as ventilation. In such an atmosphere, mealtimes were
a mockery and hunger fought a losing battle with
disgust.


On once-white cloths, marked with the stains of
yesterday's food, were placed large platters of bread, in
readiness for the midday meal: to be immediately surrounded
by a crowd of hungry inmates picking over the
food for suitably attractive pieces. Some of the more
obliging patients helped the nurses carry in the soup,
their dirty thumbs submerged. "Come along," said
Florence, "we'll fetch our own, I couldn't eat anything
they've messed about." A statement with which we both
whole-heartedly agreed. Following her to the ward kitchen
where the food was served, we collected our plates and
spoons and returned to the table, but apart from the uninviting
conditions, I was prevented by my sore and
bleeding mouth, from taking anything but a few mouthfuls
of soup.


The patients caused a great deal of disturbance during
the meal, constantly jumping up and running about.
One, with a harsh laugh, bent over my shoulder to
snatch my bread away. Suddenly with a loud commotion,
one of the patients collapsed on the floor, heaving convulsively.
She made the most frightening noises, but no
one seemed in the least concerned, and continued to eat
without pausing.

[p. <i>108</i>]

Florence ran to fetch the nurse, who had momentarily
left the room. They returned with a pillow for the
sufferer's head and a gag to prevent her biting her tongue.


It was one of the epileptics, most of whom appeared to
be quite normal, though some suffered from delusions.


After the interrupted meal, we returned to our seat
near the window (not that anything could be seen through
the opaque glass, guarded by heavy iron bars). The little
group consisted of Florence and Dorothy and an older
woman, a widow of about sixty. She began to tell me of
her family of six childrenfive of whom had died from
T.B., only the youngest, a lad of eighteen, remained, and
he had been called up for the Forces. In a few days he
would be leaving, she said, and, because her doctor feared
she could not face the parting, he had sent her here.


I thought of the years she had struggled to rear her
children, only to lose them, one by one, until now the
last must go, perhaps to join his brothers, her unspoken
fear.


A story that made my own troubles seem of small
account. Absorbed in my own fears, I had given little
thought to my companions. If they could endure such
things, so must I.


I must take courage and not despair, and above all, try
to help others. Only in this way, could I hope to conquer
the hysteria that constantly threatened my self-control.


Why, oh why, however, had it been necessary to make
my task of recovery so infinitely more difficult by placing
me in conditions that made rest and tranquillity so impossible?


It is now several years since I left the hospital. I have
struggled out of the pit of despair, but those experiences
of 1944 have led me to view with scepticism those people
who find easy comfort, when considering the problem of

[p. <i>109</i>]
