TRANSCRIPT OF AUDIO FILE:
____________________________________________________________________________________
BEGIN TRANSCRIPT:


INTERVIEWER: Session 20. 


RESPONDENT: This is the last time. It's kind of weird, I was thinking of all kinds of stuff today because I had to go to court today.


INTERVIEWER: Oh you do?


RESPONDENT: I pleaded guilty.


INTERVIEWER: Oh you did? Did they sentence you yet?


RESPONDENT: No, there's a pre-trial investigation and then that will possibly lead to a confinement in a mental hospital for about three months. And then they'll send the results back to the judge and then he'll decide what to do. And then he could do anything.


INTERVIEWER: You mean it looks like that's what's going to happen?


RESPONDENT: I thought I'll plead guilty and it's not as bad as it looks, you know. And so I did, and I went in and they fingerprinted me to make sure I was the same guy they arrested. And they took me down to this guy, he's a parole officer - what do they call that when you're out, after you get out of jail?


INTERVIEWER: Parole Officer.


RESPONDENT: Parole, or there's another word. Like instead of going to jail.


INTERVIEWER: Oh, I don't know, if you get a suspended sentence?


RESPONDENT: Yeah.


INTERVIEWER: I don't know what they call it.


RESPONDENT: I do, I can't think of it. I don't want to forget that word I've had enough of this guy. He's supposed to write out a report for the pre-sentence investigation, to the judge. The guy is a real pain. As soon as I walk in the room he says, [inaudible at 02:40]. And then he looks at the little paper I filled out, the form. Then he says, armed robbery, you're getting in the big leagues kid. Then he says, you know you're really messed up, kid, you know that. And he kept telling me how messed up I was and how wrong I was for doing this. It almost seemed like... he would have been much more congruent to say, look kid, I know you're a bad influence on everybody around, including your brother and sister and everything, but since I'm such a saint I'm going to straighten you out. You know, out of the goodness of his heart. [03:21]


INTERVIEWER: You mean that's what you thought he felt?


RESPONDENT: Yeah. Today, afterwards, I was home sitting there and I was thinking about, has that guy ever had any sociology training or psychology? He's just kind of an idiot that likes to show off to blow himself up. I don't know, I kind of came up with a kind of an analogy that - I'm really proud of this because it describes the whole situation - it's like me, I'm a watch that throughout my whole life people throw in gears here and there and add things. You get stuck once in a while so you don't quite work correct. And so you get into a situation where it looks like you really messed up, and there you are, I am, was, is. Anyway, you get a psychologist like Kibler, and he pretends to be a jeweler to try to figure out the whole mess, only it's much too complicated.


INTERVIEWER: He can't figure it out.


RESPONDENT: Yeah. And so then I come into a situation like this where it's like if you just use the right oil on the gears it kind of works out. If the gears get moving they tend to align themselves in the right place. And then this joker comes along with a... I would compare him to a construction worker with a hammer trying to mend the watch.


INTERVIEWER: It's like bang, crash.


RESPONDENT: And the whole thing just seemed so ironical you know that... how could anybody so insensitive be in a position like that? Responsible for... I don't know how many people he's responsible for. He must be responsible for at least a hundred. 


INTERVIEWER: But you can't imagine how anybody in that position....


RESPONDENT: I don't know how the government can get away with it, you know. I just kind of keep reminding myself, it's like that all over. I just better get used to it. In fact, I am getting used to it. If I can stop and think while I'm in the situation I think, this has happened before, it's no big surprise. Just try and make the best out of it. It's going to be fine. [06:23]


INTERVIEWER: But then it's hard when you're in the situation to get yourself to stop and think because you first react.


RESPONDENT: My first reaction was to call him an asshole right to his face. Then I thought, that's not going to get me anywhere. That's like violence; violence breeds more violence and then you end up with nothing. You're down and you've got zero.


INTERVIEWER: It's almost what you're saying is that what you might have done another time is like call him nasty or something like that. But you're saying now, one way of to deal with that situation is to kind of stand back, look at it, think about it, laugh at it.


RESPONDENT: Yeah. Oh, yeah, I've got to get to the point where I can do it at the time. Not laugh at it so much because you can't laugh. It's too horrible. But to just look at it and understand it rather than being appalled by it. 


INTERVIEWER: But that you still can't really do that at the time. Like it's too much.


RESPONDENT: Yeah, it takes a while afterwards. Like I was in this situation last night. My brother and I were walking around one of the neighboring towns. He was ditching church; I was just walking around. And I was making a phone call in this public phone booth and these four guys come up and they wanted to use the phone. They were really tough guys so they started banging on the sides and pushing the door open and making noise; so finally I had to hang up. And when I got out of that phone booth I stood about five feet away; I've never been so mad in all my life. I could just feel it. It was like, I don't know, I felt like if I wanted to I could use any of the knowledge or practice or anything that I've ever seen would be instantly at my disposal in my mind to instruct my body in what to do. Four of those, I think I counted out to ten to fifteen seconds... I counted ten to fifteen seconds, that's how long it would take me to fight all four of them. And that's ridiculous, it's one guy against four, it doesn't work that way. But I just knew I could do it.


INTERVIEWER: At that moment you felt very powerful and like all the strength and all the knowledge was at your command and you really could have flattened them all. [08:59]


RESPONDENT: Yeah, because they were really, they were kind of dumb. They weren't on the ball at all. I don't know why I didn't, I really don't. I ended up by counting to 30 and I walked away. I turned around and said to the biggest guy who's standing there, I said, I don't like you. And he just looked at me, I don't like you either boy. That bugged me the whole evening, the whole night. Even today it's bugging me a little bit.


INTERVIEWER: What bugged you?


RESPONDENT: That I just didn't turn around and start going after them.


INTERVIEWER: You mean in a way you wish you had.


RESPONDENT: Yeah, but It would have been just another big mess.


INTERVIEWER: Like you don't because you didn't want to get into another mess, but there's something about letting that go by without doing anything that really bugs you.


RESPONDENT: Yeah, because I was talking to a girl I met Saturday night. She was really pretty nice and I was trying to get information on how to get to her house. And she was kind of confused anyway because she hasn't lived there very long. So I was sitting there patiently listening and these guys are yelling and I can't hear, she's getting all messed up. 


INTERVIEWER: You mean you were boiling that night.


RESPONDENT: I wasn't boiling until I got off the phone.


INTERVIEWER: While you were on when you were keeping this under control.


RESPONDENT: I wasn't forcing myself. I was just very calm until I hung up.


INTERVIEWER: But as soon as you got out there it really boiled up.


RESPONDENT: Yeah, because there were two of them inside, and two of them standing on other side of it breaking the door. It would have been so easy.


INTERVIEWER: What I guess I'm trying to clear, do you wish you had flattened them?


RESPONDENT: Yeah.


INTERVIEWER: But it would have left you feeling more satisfied if you had just done it.


RESPONDENT: Oh yes. Definitely.


INTERVIEWER: And you wonder why you didn't.


RESPONDENT: I didn't want to get in another mess. I know that. And I was thinking that because there were police all around that night. And then I thought that my brother would have been in it with me and that wouldn't have done anything good for anybody.


INTERVIEWER: Well given all those things are you still glad... do you wish you had done it?


RESPONDENT: Yeah.


INTERVIEWER: What would that have meant to you to have done that?


RESPONDENT: It would have meant I would have finished my phone call. Yeah, I'm just tired of being bossed around that's all. [12:06]


INTERVIEWER: It would have been showing that you weren't going to be bossed around.


RESPONDENT: Yeah, and when the government does it you can't do anything even if they have a right to do it. Well, then there's no use to it. If a company screws you, well too bad, it's your tough luck, or even some other person does it, you can't do anything. Like on an engine I bought; for 160 dollars I get 130 dollars worth of parts out of it. That's a pretty poor investment. I got really screwed on that. It just seemed like those guys were kind of like they represented everything that was bugging me at the time. And just them being there, I don't know.


INTERVIEWER: Just them being there...


RESPONDENT: Wrecking my phone call, harassing my little brother who is really very peaceful.


INTERVIEWER: And them you could have stood up to and not let them shove you around.


RESPONDENT: I can't get it out of my mind because I'm still going over the [inaudible at 13:41]


INTERVIEWER: You're still thinking how you would have scared them and knocked them down.


RESPONDENT: I don't know too many people that - I'll take that back - I don't have too many friends that I ever talk to that fight at all; of course a little scuffle once in a while. I kind of had to make up my own kind of way that I would go about that. And the only way I can think of fighting is to get it over in about 10 seconds. Just don't let the other guy ever move until he falls over.


INTERVIEWER: Do it fast and get in there first.


RESPONDENT: Yeah. And those guys were so slow. By the time the fourth guy would have looked up he would have been in the middle of his turn.


INTERVIEWER: It seems like you had such a good chance.


RESPONDENT: Yeah. And one guy on the outside was small and the other guy had his back to me.


INTERVIEWER: It would have been [inaudible at 14:56], it would have worked.


RESPONDENT: Oh well, so much for that. 


INTERVIEWER: Well it sounds like it was hard for you to say, so much for that. It keeps being on your mind. [15:07]


RESPONDENT: Well I'll probably never find them again.


INTERVIEWER: But that's the kind of situation that you'd like to find.


RESPONDENT: Kind of yes and kind of no because we didn't do anything, we just walked around. So it was an excitement you know, provided a little stimulation to lighten up the evening. But then on the other hand, I was having a good time walking around. That wasn't bugging me at all. And I talked to a really nice girl and these guys ruined it. I'll have to go and call her back and waste another 20 cents. 


INTERVIEWER: So you kind of know that you wouldn't want to fight, that you'd rather have had an evening without a mess just enjoying yourself.


RESPONDENT: It was kind of fun on a Friday night us just driving around [inaudible at 16:35]. Those are far suburbs, really far, they're way up. It takes about 10 or 15 miles to drive around up there. I was following this guy in I think it was a VW or something, and we were just playing games on the road because neither of us cut out one or the other one. [inaudible at 17:08] so we were just having fun. And then I see this car with three girls in it next to me, so when they turn off I just turn off after them and they go to this Wendy's restaurant. And so we both get some food and while we're inside I just, from across the room, I saw the driver of the car and I just moved my mouth like, hi, you know, and she didn't say anything. And so we ate our food, got back in the car, and then I just started talking to them for a while. And then I ended up getting when I went to this other girl's house and her boyfriend came over and another guy came over and I came over. And so there were three guys and three girls. And this one guy and this one girl never saw each other before so they weren't too interested in each other anyway. They were just kind of messing around. And the other couple was kind of nice so we talked to them. In fact it was just kind of open jam session. And the whole evening it was kind of nice because I felt really relaxed. I wasn't worried about whether I was going to make a good impression or whether I was going to blow it or not. It never entered my mind. I just thought, oh well, if I don't score I'll just keep driving around. 


INTERVIEWER: It would be nice but [inaudible at 18:41]


RESPONDENT: Yeah. It was kind of cool though, because we were just sitting there reading and talking, looking at magazines, listening to records, radio, tossing this paper bag back and forth.


INTERVIEWER: Casual and fun.


RESPONDENT: Yeah, and I guess she really liked it. So I'm going to see her again tomorrow.


INTERVIEWER: It worked out.


RESPONDENT: Yeah. I've just got to figure out what I'm going to do to with two girls.


INTERVIEWER: You have a problem with excess.


RESPONDENT: I don't know, I always felt that, when I wrote Stephanie a letter you know, and lately I haven't been that way at all. Like if I'm going to swear in the letter I'll put that in there, exactly as I would say it.


INTERVIEWER: You felt much more free. 


RESPONDENT: Yeah, and I don't think she's going to like it but that's what she's going to get.


INTERVIEWER: You're worried about whether she's going to like it or not. [20:07]


RESPONDENT: Yeah. Maybe it's just kind of less involvement. And because there is less involvement I'm kind of free to do what I want. It's nice. I wish we would have had that when we were still together.


INTERVIEWER: Because you can see how free and spontaneous it makes things.


RESPONDENT: I'm kind of wondering, really. I don't know what it's going to be like with this girl or not, or what's going to happen or anything. And like, I'm not going to be around that much longer, around here I don't think. I just wonder if it's worth starting anything.


INTERVIEWER: You're not sure if you'd like going away.


RESPONDENT: Not that I wouldn't mind, but would it be fair to her, you know? I don't know.


INTERVIEWER: It would be fun for you, but it might make you feel guilty?


RESPONDENT: Yeah. I don't know, I don't know what kind of girl she is. I mean I don't know how she would react to me. She really doesn't know me yet. She doesn't know I'm a jewelry store robber, that I have a pending court case or any of it, none the gory details. All she knows is that I'm 20, and fairly cute, and don't talk too much and like her. It should be interesting. 


I keep thinking more and more about that transactional analysis.


INTERVIEWER: Thinking what about it?


RESPONDENT: Just, I don't know, it's kind of like ingrained in me now because the more I think about it, the more I apply it to situations that I see and situations that I'm in. [23:25]


INTERVIEWER: Like is there a specific one you're thinking of?


RESPONDENT: Well, so many things have happened the past couple of days. I can see it in all of them. How sometimes I just, like looking back over a situation I'll think, no the other person said this, now really what did he say and what does that mean to him and what does that mean to me in relation to that. And usually it has nothing to do with what he said.


INTERVIEWER: You mean, what it means to you has nothing to do with what he said.


RESPONDENT: Yeah, and there's different levels. So he's like at a different level, you can forget about what he said. And it's really weird because I can see now sometimes I act, I really play it cool in a situation when I don't jump off the handle, except for occasionally. Like I'm thinking of when I sold that guy an engine and it turned out that he bought it. I didn't really know what I had. So I sold this one thing and it didn't turn out to be that, so I ended up giving him his money back and taking my engine back. So he could use some of the parts so I sold him some of the parts. All the while that I'm sitting there trying to figure out what's going to happen here. I don't want to screw this guy and I don't want to get screwed. That was when we first discovered it wasn't the right engine. And he's dancing there screaming at me, are you going to answer me kid? I didn't yell at him, I just said, just give me a chance to think. He says, well I have other things to do. I said, okay, I'll sit here and think for a while; you can go back to your business because he's pretty busy. He completely lost his cool.


INTERVIEWER: But you kept yours.


RESPONDENT: Yeah. I felt really rotten about the engine, but I felt good that I can handle even the people that are screaming at me, and it didn't faze me that much. It fazed me that it wasn't the right engine, that's what bugged me. The guy didn't bug me at all.


INTERVIEWER: But you could get through those difficult situations keeping calm and your wits about you. [26:18]


RESPONDENT: Yeah. Like even today in that parole officer's office, wait a second...


INTERVIEWER: You're still looking for that word.


RESPONDENT: Probation, yeah, it's probation officer. Probation and parole, he's both. I was just sitting in there and he was practically yelling at me. And just the way he talked it was obvious, he's the parent I'm the child. Obviously there's no adult in the room in his viewpoint you know. But I just sat there quietly agreed with him...


INTERVIEWER: And it made you feel really good that you didn't all flustered by it.


RESPONDENT: And he took the defensive on it. I didn't like him, I didn't like what he was saying, I couldn't go the parent route because... have you studied [inaudible at 27:26] at all?


INTERVIEWER: Some, yes.


RESPONDENT: I couldn't go the parent because that would completely blow his mind because he'd have me locked up. And I couldn't go the adult because that would ruin his whole ego, that would break him down and then he'd probably have me locked up too. So you just sit there and agree with him you know.


INTERVIEWER: Well it sounds like what this calmness does for you is to give you control over some situations where unless you use it you're very much out of control, and don't have any way of dealing with it.


RESPONDENT: Yeah. Like when I used to have arguments with my girl. I didn't know what to do. Sometimes I could kind of guess my way through, but that didn't work all the time, like sometimes you make a wrong guess and it makes it worse and the argument just gets longer and more bitter. But now it seems so, not really easy, sometimes it's easy. Like today, in the probation officer's office, I had just been through the court and the judge sat there and read about 20 questions to me. And it was really making me nervous because he's telling me all these rights I'm giving up by pleading guilty. Do you know that you can be sentenced to 20 years or 5,000 dollars or both? It kind of scared me. But it leaves you really shaking afterwards. You wonder, why didn't I fight it? Why didn't I just keep with the innocent plea?


INTERVIEWER: Yeah, am I really making a big mistake here? 


RESPONDENT: Right. And then thinking about that, and then on top of it this guy is yelling at me. That's why I got the logical thing about the watch. That's just the way it seemed.


INTERVIEWER: But as the watch, it sounded like you like you felt then you could withstand the hammer without being banged up too much.


RESPONDENT: Yeah, but maybe the hammer wasn't a threat. It was like if the watch was about to fall apart, then it would be a threat. [29:59]


INTERVIEWER: But the watch was pretty sturdy.


RESPONDENT: Yeah. And then on top of that, understanding the way the guy thought, at least a little bit, made it seem a lot easier. The unknown always inspires fear, not always, but has a tendency. And when you know a little bit more about what he's thinking than he does it's really, you can kind of sit back and, you can't laugh at him, you're going to kind of pity him. But you can't show any of it.


INTERVIEWER: But you can deal with it because you can figure it out, what's going on.


RESPONDENT: Yeah. I mean sometimes it happens with my parents too. Like my dad's kind of hard to figure out, but my mom, it's so simple it's tiring and it's always the same; always, time after time. It's not that it's boring I just wonder how can she live with herself. If I was like that I'd either commit suicide or go insane, or I would do something. I wouldn't just keep living like that.


INTERVIEWER: So that's the part that's hard to understand.


RESPONDENT: Forty years, how can anybody put up with that? And then I wonder how can my father put up with it for 20 years? It's weird. It seems sometimes that I can understand my parents, but I don't pity them the way I would do somebody I didn't know. Like maybe I expect more from them you know. And then it's kind of like a constant disappointment, so I just have no pity left for them.


INTERVIEWER: You're too closely associated with them to pity them.


RESPONDENT: Yeah. Like, my mother likes to dig her own grave. She'll get herself into a situation where there's no possible way out and then she'll cry about it, or get the flustered thing like, I'm doing everything for you. I don't buy it. It's like a game except it never stops and I refuse to participate. And sometimes I feel a little bit guilty about that. 


INTERVIEWER: Guilty about...? 


RESPONDENT: ... that I refuse to participate. I don't say, oh mom it's okay. I can't. [33:05]


INTERVIEWER: But you feel guilty for standing outside of that.


RESPONDENT: Yeah. But to participate is to perpetuate. That's good. Really. If I started playing games it would get worse instead of better, and it's not the way. And I don't know what the way is.


INTERVIEWER: You don't know the way but you can see that the way isn't to help it out, to continue it.


RESPONDENT: Yeah. But I can discontinue my part, but she still continues to play her part. 


INTERVIEWER: And that still leaves you I guess disappointed, wishing that she could give up that.


RESPONDENT: Yeah. I was wondering today if I'm going to get any scars from this whole experience. 


INTERVIEWER: What [inaudible at 34:25] it's going to leave you damaged or how? I mean, I guess that's what you're wondering.


RESPONDENT: Yeah. Sometimes I can feel myself changing. Like if I hadn't been in this mess, last night I don't think I ever would have thought of even touching those guys. That was just out of the question. So they're assholes, let them go.


INTERVIEWER: But the fact that all this mess has happened...


RESPONDENT: Yeah. I mean maybe it's a cop-out, but it's got to affect me somehow.


INTERVIEWER: It sounds like you feel really bitter about that. Like, what is this going to do to me?


RESPONDENT: Yeah. And the more I wonder about that the more the hammer and the watch analogy fits.


INTERVIEWER: What do you mean by that?


RESPONDENT: The more bitter I get the more I wonder if maybe the hammer isn't taking hold.


INTERVIEWER: You wonder if you would be able to stand up on your own.


RESPONDENT: Yeah. Oh, that probation officer might be contacting you. [36:25]


INTERVIEWER: Might be contacting me?


RESPONDENT: Because I told him I had... because it got to a subject he asked me if I had any bills to pay and I said yeah, I've got a counseling/therapy session bill to pay. He said, oh yes, really? Where do you go, who do you see? So I had to tell him.


INTERVIEWER: He might be contacting me for what reason?


RESPONDENT: I have no idea. Part of the pre-investigation I suppose.


INTERVIEWER: Well, we don't give out information like even when anybody's in therapy unless you want me to.


RESPONDENT: I don't know really. I don't know what I should do. It will help me I know if he gets more information, but then sometimes I wonder. Hammers can bend information.


INTERVIEWER: You're afraid of how that information might be used. 


RESPONDENT: Yeah.


INTERVIEWER: It might be distorted.


RESPONDENT: Partly I'm kind of afraid because I'm kind of getting ready for this whole thing in my mind.


INTERVIEWER: I can see that, yeah.


RESPONDENT: Like today I had to write a description of the jewelry store robbery and the situation that led up to it for the probation officer. During the whole thing I was sitting there thinking, how do I psyche this guy up so that I put down the right stuff instead of the wrong stuff? Is he going to understand if I start putting in some of the things that I've found out about myself that I really didn't know before? Or is he just going to take it like, oh this dumb kid's just trying to pull the wool over my eyes. I'm not going to take any of that.[39:02]


INTERVIEWER: You're trying [inaudible at 39:05]


RESPONDENT: Yeah. And then on top of that, if I end up in this hospital in the city for three months, they're going to pick my brains over good and I'm going to have to decide beforehand what's good for me to be able to open up about it, and what's good for me to stay closed, stay under my control. Like the last hospital I was in, I blew it there because I had no idea that I was going to be in the situation that I did. It was rougher than I expected. And so I felt like I kind of exposed myself in the beginning expecting to get some understanding and some help, and instead I got screwed royal. They sent my dad the bill. But anyway I have the feeling that that's going to happen again so I just have to think out, well what can I say?


INTERVIEWER: This time you want to be more prepared.


RESPONDENT: Like if I go and tell the guy that movies really affect me. Like if I watch Easy Rider I feel like killing some farmer. Really. Or if I watch [inaudible at 40:39] I can really understand that, because there's a little bit of that in me. And you just can't say that there because it all goes on your report and the judge comes back and sees your report, wants to blow up buildings. He's going to lock your ass up.


INTERVIEWER: So what you're doing now is sifting through and trying to say what shall I let them know and what shall I not let them know.


RESPONDENT: Yeah. I never considered that I would have to do this. Like the guy has to have information to write this report and I think that a lot of what we've been going over could be kind of helpful to him and me. But I don't know where to start sorting.


INTERVIEWER: What you want to do is help yourself out except you don't really know how to go about that.


RESPONDENT: Yeah. Let's take a hypothetical situation. If I was to say, tell him anything you want, you have my permission, what would you say?


INTERVIEWER: I don't know Joseph, I would first want to talk to some people here because I know that part of the thing when you came was that it was with the understanding that it wasn't like somehow to get your case in court. I would really like to help you out so I would like to do what I can, but I'd have to think about what exactly. And I don't even know what I would say. It depends also, if I would say something, depending on what the guy was like. And I don't get a very positive picture of the guy. [43:13]


RESPONDENT: You see I don't know. That's just a first impression.


INTERVIEWER: Well, sure.


RESPONDENT: I don't know. His intentions are good I'll say that. But his methods...


INTERVIEWER: But as it stands it sounds like what's going to happen to you is very likely that you'll be sent to three months psychiatric hospital. So it sound on what will happen to you after that will probably really depend on what happens during the three months as much as anything else would be my guess.


RESPONDENT: And also if this guy comes up with a bad report those three months aren't going to happen. I'm just gong to go and spend a year in Bellvue (ph).


INTERVIEWER: I see. You mean it's up to him to write a report for you?


RESPONDENT: Yeah. There's a whole string of things. Every one of them has to go just right if this thing's going to work out because if just one of them goes wrong the rest of the chain is broken. It's finished. Like there's two alternatives: it can go right or it can go wrong, there's no in between.


INTERVIEWER: Well I certainly feel like I would very likely will be willing to give him information about you, but I couldn't promise it because I kind of have to...


RESPONDENT: But you wouldn't be involved in any court testimony because there's no trial.


INTERVIEWER: But I mean I also have to admit that I'm not sure quite what to say. I'm not sure quite what would be helpful to you not knowing the situation. But unless you give me any other directions, I'll say one thing, if the guy calls what will happen is the people will just say we can't give out any information.


RESPONDENT: I understand. Like, I can't tell you what to say or anything really because what you say you have to think for yourself.


INTERVIEWER: Well, I know some things I would say.


RESPONDENT: But seriously, I don't think this is a cop-out at all. I'm going to trust you to use your judgment because I don't think that there's too much you would say that would make a bad influence. 


INTERVIEWER: Well I certainly wouldn't want to.


RESPONDENT: And then on top of that there's this other psychiatrist that I went to visit once. I think he's pretty sharp too. So he'll probably be in contact with the guy too. That guy can put things in more legal terms. He can equate it to the law because that's like his specialty. And so he would be a much better source of information really.[46:23]


INTERVIEWER: Now is that guy already... have you given somebody his name to contact him?


RESPONDENT: No, I have to do that through my lawyer because the probation officer will be calling my lawyer and me again.


INTERVIEWER: What about, wasn't there another psychologist or psychiatrist who was going to write up something?


RESPONDENT: That was the one. 


INTERVIEWER: Is he someone you went to with your family or something?


RESPONDENT: Oh that one. I wouldn't trust that guy with a nickel. I'm sure his intentions are good too but instead of a big hammer he uses a little one. That's about it. Or maybe [inaudible at 47:13]. Just a different way he manipulates you, that's the only change. And for him a successful cure or treatment of a client is when the client comes up with his point of view.


INTERVIEWER: I see. Well how soon do you think you're going to find our what's going to happen to you. 


RESPONDENT: Well the next trial, not trial but court date, is January 21st. The report has to be done by then, January 20th. And so that's when whatever happens is going to happen on January 20th.


INTERVIEWER: Well, I'll tell you what, if you decide that you want me to talk to them about it, what I'll do is Mr. Cameron said he's going to call you tomorrow for a post-test thing, and when you come down for that I'll...


RESPONDENT: I'm not going to be home tomorrow.


INTERVIEWER: You're not going to be home tomorrow?


INTERVIEWER: Well, we'll see. I was going to go visit that girl. Early morning, like before ten.[48:10]


INTERVIEWER: Oh well, he's probably not going to be up then. Are you going to be home tomorrow afternoon.


RESPONDENT: Yeah. I'll be home between four and seven.


INTERVIEWER: Okay, well I'll tell him that. And then when you come in for that if you decide that you want me to talk to them, I'll find out. I'd like you to just put in writing that it's okay for me to say stuff because it's legal business, and I'll find out what I want you to say, okay. So when you come in then I'll check with the [inaudible at 48:49]. Let me write that down. 


So you have like another 2 months - all this time. 


RESPONDENT: I'm going to go nuts just waiting around.


INTERVIEWER: Yeah, I don't see why...


RESPONDENT: I just do things like I have a little bit of money now so I think I'm going to build up that other engine I have because I have all the parts just laying there. I need about 20 dollars more then I'll have it all done. That should be interesting. My transmission in my car [inaudible at 49:26]. It'll just be something to do really to occupy the time.


INTERVIEWER: So it looks likely that you'll be sent for the 3-month thing, but let me ask you this, is the thing that you'll be sent there if they decide you're what.


RESPONDENT: If they decide that a diagnosis and treatment session will benefit me they'll send me there. See because the judge needs a report from one of his sources instead of one of my sources.


INTERVIEWER: Well, I might have to say then that I think it would benefit you, whether I really think so or not.


RESPONDENT: I understand the logic behind it, but being there wouldn't help me. Maybe it would but I don't think so.


INTERVIEWER: But you really want to go there is that right?


RESPONDENT: Because that's the best way to get a judge's... get that report in the judge's hands as to whether I'm going to go around robbing jewelry shops and blowing up people any more.


INTERVIEWER: What are you going to do?


RESPONDENT: I'm not going to do that. I think I'm completely finished with anything illegal. That's another thing that helped me back last night, from getting those guys. Because the law, it's there, you just have to accept it. So it's wrong, so it's messed up, so there's a lot of things in it that you can get really hung up in that maybe you do something that's pretty serious in the law and it's really kind of just a day in a life.


INTERVIEWER: A day in a life?


RESPONDENT: Like a jewelry store robbery, you get one really messed up day and so you do something.


INTERVIEWER: What do you mean? That you can mess up a really long time period by just doing one little thing?


RESPONDENT: No. The law is there and you've got to take it. That's all there is to it. But the object is, if you get a really messed up day just don't do anything illegal.


INTERVIEWER: Oh messed up day means you're feeling bad?


RESPONDENT: Right.


INTERVIEWER: I see, I see. Because it isn't worth it.


RESPONDENT: Yeah. It's just too much trouble. You save yourself a lot of trouble just by....


INTERVIEWER: Easier not to rob any place.


RESPONDENT: Yeah. Would you know anyone that has a trumpet for sale? [52:16]


INTERVIEWER: Want to learn to play the trumpet?


RESPONDENT: Yeah I want to learn but I don't think I'm going to get a chance to. 


INTERVIEWER: Didn't you say something like you write music or something?


RESPONDENT: No, I mess around with it. No I don't write. I can't read or write music. I just play. 


INTERVIEWER: Don't you make up tunes?


RESPONDENT: Yeah, sometimes. I forget them all but still try. What I really like to do is get a song on the radio that has two or three-part harmony, and then add a third or fourth part to it. Sing along with it or I just hum and make variations on it.


INTERVIEWER: Do you ever make up words to your songs?


RESPONDENT: No. A Dylan song is really nice because he sings lousy. There's nothing in his voice. His tunes are very simple and plain so there's really no inspiration in the tune. The message is beautiful, but then, I can sing the words and I can sing pretty good. So it comes out all right. And then on top of that, I can make up an interweaving tune that makes his tune sound really good. That seems to work much better than starting from scratch.


INTERVIEWER: Do you play an instrument? You play the piano don't you?


RESPONDENT: By the hunt, peck method. No I can mess around a little bit but I'm not that good at playing anything really. It's all in my mind it's not on the keyboard. 


INTERVIEWER: Well, I don't know, I sure wish you luck with all this. One of the things that I really hope most is that you don't get harmed by this. That you don't get...


RESPONDENT: Bitter...


INTERVIEWER: Well you probably feel bitter at one point or the other, but that somehow you come out of it not damaged.


RESPONDENT: Yes, I hope the same thing. I just thought, I'm going to kind of miss this, really I am. Like meeting those people, the six of them, it kind of showed me what have I been doing? I've been holing up in my house doing nothing, and here I get to talk to some nice people and get out some things that I think, and take in some things that other people think. And it's much better really. [55:29]


INTERVIEWER: I take it that you're feeling that you can now get out into the world.


RESPONDENT: I have mixed feelings on that. I'm kind of afraid because I'm not really into it that much, and sometimes I blow it, sometimes I do pretty good. It's just that my social life has been so bad for the past five or six years that it's kind of hard to get used to really liking people and having them like you.


INTERVIEWER: Probably not used to it, yeah. So you're not sure how will be. I guess we better stop.


RESPONDENT: Okay.


INTERVIEWER: I really would like to say, I really enjoyed getting to know you. I really have.


RESPONDENT: It seemed like I was being kind of a pain sometimes.


INTERVIEWER: I didn't feel that.


RESPONDENT: Now you can say you knew a jewelry store robber. That was a big thrill to all the kids in the hospital. My old friends, people I hadn't seen for 6 to 8 months, oh I know him, he's a jewel robber. I didn't like that.


INTERVIEWER: It's true. I must say you're the first jewel robber I ever met, but on the other hand there's a lot of other parts to you too.


RESPONDENT: Okay. Well, we'll see you then, Goodbye.


END TRANSCRIPT
