TRANSCRIPT OF AUDIO FILE:
______________________________________________________________________________
BEGIN TRANSCRIPT:


COUNSELOR: This is interview number ten, with client number 0729-107. 0729-107. 1970. 


PATIENT: It didn't look like I'd (inaudible 0:00:29) back because it is pressure. It was crazy, but I think I'm going to... What I say I'm going to do is write a book about it. I've already got a title picked out, you know. I'm going to write a book about how it is to grow one, and to have one and... 


COUNSELOR: Uh-huh.


PATIENT: So how is your holiday?


COUNSELOR: It is nice. 


PATIENT: Good, Good. 


COUNSELOR: Very pleasant. How about yours?


PATIENT: Well, by comparison, I mean, Susan's parents were in town. I told you that. And this is the first time we haven't had this colossal blow up when they've been with us. From that point it went alright. It was a little tense I guess. We were all dreading the big blow up.


COUNSELOR: Waiting for something to happen.


PATIENT: Right, waiting for something to happen. I guess from that point of view it was fine. Seemed kind of unnatural. Sometimes unnatural relationships are, in a situation like that, so charged. I feel you're compromised. Golly. Things seemed to have improved so... It's funny, I came to understand one thing about our sexual relationship. Because Susan it is much more at ease and much more relieved over the holidays, and so things were much better from that extent. 0:02:01 


We had a big discussion one night, last Sunday night, about that sort of stuff. That seemed to help. This last night, she just really cold cocked me with her information. She said that there were a number of things she felt like she needed to get off her chest and she wasn't anymore. She was tending to save them up for therapy. And of course, her therapist is out of town now. 


It used to be that anything that bothered her, I was the only one there. So she talked with me about it. And most of the time I tried to figure out some sort of way to make things better. That produced a lot of anxiety on my part, but it worked out. A lot. I guess way back in my; mind I was thinking that she probably was transferring some of what I used to get over into the therapy. I didn't really much object to that, because that took a lot of the responsibility off of me. But what she was saying was that she knew therapy wasn't going to last forever. Who was she going to discuss these things with? Who was she going to talk to? She didn't feel like she could talk to me about it anymore. 


This all came up because one of my classmates from last year- Speaking of students, I just ran into the Dr. Isman. Who totally gave me an A on my final. So that is a relief. Anyway, one of my classmates from last year went into the hospital. She's went in for a simple biopsy and she's been in for four months of complications, she's back in the hospital now. I was talking to her last night, and so Susan is on the bed listening to a one-sided conversation. And the trouble is that she feels oppressed by my personality. And she really feels turned off by what she hears. Of course, that's not exactly fair, because it is a one-sided conversation.0:04:51


COUNSELOR: She's only hearing half.


PATIENT: She's only hearing half. She gets this real feeling of "Yick, what a bunch of crap."


COUNSELOR: How does that leave you feel?


PATIENT: Oh, it leaves me feeling great. I just romp around the room, she doesn't trust me, nothing but bullshit. And the thing is that she is my sternest critic, and she can destroy the feeling I have. And that leaves me feeling terrible. Leaves me feeling really destroyed. But then I guess, this is going to sound really funny, I enjoy talking to people. Enjoy having them talk to me about their problems. Feeling like I'm at least fair, and offer a suggestion here and there, I might help. I been there, I've watched the way you've done it. You don't offer any suggestions, you don't hardly get a word in edgewise, really. I can't quite do it that way. Until I say, I'm really not a therapist, I'm just a person. I'm not trained in therapy and it would be foolish for me to call myself a therapist, because that is not my training. 


But nonetheless, I think occasionally that does help to have people who are not professional therapists listen, and just be people to you. Be interested and things like that. But she really puts that down strongly. I guess it is because I've been so oppressive to her. 


COUNSELOR: What's be oppressive? Because you've said that a couple of times and I'm trying to figure out what you mean.0:06:50


PATIENT: Well, let me give you two examples. This girl said, last night, number one, she worked for a doctor, an big surgeon here in town. After her first operation she was fired by him. This was a big mix up. He has said that she had discussed financial matters out loud at the office. And the surgeon she worked for previously was trying to get back at her and he went and told this surgeon she was working for. A real neat thing. He was trying to get back at her because her father had been a contractor of his and had taken him to court. 


And she said that, "I really feel like I need to tell him and have him believe that I didn't discuss that with this man. I'm trying to wrack my brain to see if I had did discuss it." So that is the background. So what "I said was," she said, "I tried to call them on the telephone and they wouldn't talk to me. And maybe, I've often felt I should... what if I were dying now? They would have to listen. This is my death confession. They've had to listen they would know I was really telling the truth. And that cut deep for this young girl. 0:08:34 


My background is such that I'm used to people coming to me and saying, "What do you think is the best treatment? Well, I say the best treatment is..." That is what I'm trained to do. But that is oppressive. That's the type of oppression...


COUNSELOR: It sounds like what you mean is "This is a suggestion. This is something I've tried, and it has helped." But apparently it is being heard, this is the way you should do it.


PATIENT: This is the way you should do it, right. This is not... this is the kind of thing that led her into this business though, the fact that there were a lot of things she wasn't telling me. There were a lot of things she was keeping just for therapy because she thought therapy was more effective. Therapy didn't offer her any suggestions as such. But then I know from her from talking about therapy, the therapist does suggest things. 0:10:06


It is just that my credibility is really low now, in her eyes. And that really hurt.


COUNSELOR: Makes you feel pushed in a corner.


PATIENT: Right. 


COUNSELOR: Anything you have to offer doesn't amount to much.


PATIENT: Right. So, I guess I've tried very hard just to hear her and not react. Not to make any suggestions. That is a little bit awkward for me, that is not where it is at for me. I don't have any visions that I can make everything better, but sometimes I'd like to be in there enough to be making suggestions. At least know that I'm thinking, trying. There's a reply in me. A reaction. Because I've been able to talk to you about the fact that I wish I could say things and have people not act on them, or react. That's probably what happens more often than just acting. 0:11:13.9


COUNSELOR: That sounds like, maybe, a defense from her. You feel you have to do something. 


PATIENT: She doesn't seem to understand or take what I say as just being concerned, or just being about the fact that I'm thinking. For a while now, I just sat there and listened. I can't bring myself to say, "It sounds like you're saying, or it feels to me like you're saying..." That just breaks us all up. That is not the way we've done it. And there's an obvious (inaudible 0:12:03) for that. 


COUNSELOR: You'll probably get hit over the head. (chuckling.) I hear you saying though, "I really would like to get to her in some way so she can understand what I'm really trying to do is just be there, not say this is the right way.


PATIENT: And you can go one step further, it is important to have her acceptance. 


COUNSELOR: Yes, it is important to you. Could you tell her that?


PATIENT: Yeah, I could but I feel like that is undue pressure.


COUNSELOR: You think she feels that she...


PATIENT: She has to accept me. That is one of the hang ups I have with the sex. Asking somebody to have sex with you, I'd rather just not. Rather not have any sex, rather not have any acceptance if I had to ask for it. It is almost the kind of thing that has to come spontaneous.


COUNSELOR: It isn't very real to have to be asked for it.


PATIENT: So that really hurts when she says things like that. I think that was the thing that scared me the most about this therapy, was that this role that I play, you know, one of the things that I did in our marriage was to be her listener too. Try and work through some problems with her. It worked sometimes, it didn't work all the time. And I knew that I would not give up that. 


COUNSELOR: And that's really scary too. That's in a way, a big part of our relationships.0:13:51


PATIENT: That's exactly right. It has hurt a lot. Because it is important that... why I want to give something to her, and one of the things she gives to me is that feeling that I'm worth-while. What I'm giving is worth-while. This is like I told her, I don't mind being used, but I'd like the people to know that they're using me, and for people to like what they're using. Not just because I'm convenient to the situation. 


PATIENT: Because they want your opinion.


COUNSELOR: Right. And I can within myself say, "I do this." I go through this little self-hypnosis if you will, this little sleep pep-talk. You're really ok. You try hard. She doesn't really understand that you try hard, and you're ok. We were talking last night, and when we talked it brought back a whole lot of the past that I'm beginning to look at from another perspective. From talking to people that didn't have the same type of past. And I was telling her last night the fact that living in Louisiana there is the afternoon shower, the afternoon rain shower. But when I was ten years old, I started to deliver papers. And it doesn't sound like much.0:16:00 


I can remember weeks on end when it would rain in the afternoon while I was delivering papers. And there was many a time halfway through this paper route I would think about just quitting. After the papers fell down and got all wet, all this. But I never could do it. It was always that I had to get it done. I never stopped. These things kind of disciplined me, almost unknowingly. They discipline me to not stop, discipline me to be self sufficient. Whey you're out there, it is a terribly lonely thing, riding around some strange neighborhood, maybe it is not strange, but it's not something that you would call your home ground. And you're riding around some strange neighborhood, delivering papers, fighting off the dogs, taking the guff off the other kids, this sort of thing. You have to have something that keeps you going. and I guess some of the time, between that and the bad home life, I talked a lot to myself. I had to keep myself up. 


PATIENT: [inaudible phrase0:17:26] making myself go through with something, you're ok, keep it up.


COUNSELOR: Right. And I can do that here. I can do that with her. But that's very lonely. It's a way of survival. That's about it, surviving. There's a lot of unnecessary unhappiness think. And there's just nobody you can turn to in a situation like that. It really comes down home when she says, I'm just not telling you things I used to tell you. I'm saving them all for therapy. And the tough part of the whole thing, the therapist is away on vacation. I wouldn't ordinarily even bring it up accept that her therapist's away on vacation. 


PATIENT: [Inaudible pharse0:18:23]


COUNSELOR: I know that sounds kind of calculated. But that's the feeling I get. I have felt that a lot, often times when we are with the people we are with, especially here in Central Park, there is a within a range, a certain uniformity of approach to things. A particular example, if we were arguing, if we were having a particular discussion in a group- here's the classic one, she really came down. She lectured about an hour to me. We were at a dinner party, all sitting around this table, about 6 people. So, this couple had a young girl and a young boy, they were seven, four, something like that. 


This guy is an pediatrician, and he was expounding on the fact that the differences between boys and girls. Why the differences were between boys and girls. Well, I'll admit there's differences, but a lot of them I think we impose. We give little boys trucks and little girls dolls. Obviously little girls will grow up to want to play with dolls. And little boys are going to grow up with trucks. 


I listened to this for a few minutes and then I said, "Well, I disagree wholeheartedly with you." Instead of saying I disagree some, I said wholeheartedly, so I started in on this business of the stereo type in order to prove my point. I know I went off to the extreme, hardly admitting that there was any difference. Which is sheer folly. But, nonetheless, it was to show at least that some differences weren't biological, but were imposed. Some of the things we did to them. Mainly because I don't like his wife, I don't like his children. Because the little girl is the princess, and the little boy is the king. And each one of them has their very own stereotypical little roles, even at this age.


But that really got to her. That I would stand up against, among other people, expounding this thing really bugged her. She would much rather have had me said nothing at all. Just to have been completely quiet. That just not for me. That's what we used to always have difficulty with. She used to always talk to me on the way home from parties or little get-togethers, two people, four people, four people getting together [inaudible pharse0:21:30] the lecture time. She'd tell me where I have done wrong.


PATIENT: That mustn't make You feel good.


PATIENT: Yeah, it made me feel great. Just like love right there. Wow, you're really screwed, you didn't do that right. What it ultimately did, was it made me have two worlds. A world where I was accepted at face value, when I didn't really analyze how well I was accepted or how well I was reaching people. I purposely didn't, it seemed like I was ok. That had nothing to do with Susan. 


Then there were the ones I was struggling with, the one that involved her. I can really feel, it's the same thing a lot of men go through. That's why their business is so important. That's a world in which they can function. Her father is a classic example of someone who has really taken a small business And turned it into a large industry. At home her mother is just constantly at him, she just completely dehumanizes him. Way back, [inaudible 0:22:57] but now it is a process of complete dehumanization. That whole business, I'm going to pay You, I'm your real critic. I guess I'm saying, I don't want that kind of criticism. I don't think it's useful, I don't think it's helpful. If she wants to know then I think she can come about it to just sit in judgment over the way I might have acted or reacted. 


I mean like, we were invited to a Christmas Eve party, but we're not going to that. Instead we're going over with one of the couples. This is a very good friend of hers, I; know the girl less, but I still know her quite a bit. She's a divorcee, Susan went through quite a bit of the divorce with her And that sort of thing, And we're going over there. She has met this guy from Anthropology, he's getting his PhD here in Anthropology. As she describes he's really "cool. This guy's really cool." 


"Now, I'm a little worried about how you're going to act. I want You to be comfortable, because I know if you're comfortable then You won't act out of line." That's the implication. Those are almost the exact words. "I want You to be comfortable that night, in other words, don't monopolize the conversation, don't be antagonistic. Of course, that really sets the evening up as something I look forward to.0:24:43


COUNSELOR: I dread this. I'm bound And boxed in.


PATIENT: Right. AND I just began to realize that she was missing a great deal of the more pleasant nice parts of me, because of this. I"M not about to give her the pleasant nice part. I'm enjoy playing the guitar And singing, And she always puts that down. AND she has always put that down, it's only been recently that she has thought that it was at least acceptable. Its funny, because nobody else does that. They might be pumping me up, I don't know. She might be the only honest person that I have around me, they might be pumping me up. But that feels good to be pumped up. Feels terrible when she says, "Can You take that somewhere else And play? I'm trying to read. You're really distracting me." 


That's not the way it goes at all. I really paint her in a bad light, And I thought I'd gotten over that. I thought I'd gotten all that out to where I could concentrate on my problems.


COUNSELOR: Sounds like you're still angry at her.


PATIENT: Yeah, I guess so. 


COUNSELOR: Either hurt or put down. You'd like to strike out a turn. 0:26:19


PATIENT: Right. She really kind of hurt me. The therapy is really kind of hurt me. She is of course, very lonely this week. She doesn't have her therapist, she's not working this week. She works two days a week And she goes to therapy two days a week. So that's four half days that are just shot out from under her. It's hard to take when you're used to that freedom of the home, to be slapped back into the home.


It really hurts when she does that, And yet, I can't say to her, "don't hurt me, And that puts restrictions on her, And I don't want to put restrictions on her. That's like asking for somebody to go to bed with You, or asking for somebody to accept You, asking somebody not to hurt You is the same sort of thing. It's not fair.


COUNSELOR: Does she know it hurts You?


PATIENT: I think she does. There's no way You can win though, if I tell her it hurts me then she'll say, "OK, then I won't say it." But it's going of build up in me, You see. If I don't say anything about hurting me, it hurts. I'm not sure if she knows it hurts. If I argue with her then, its' oppressive. I could ultimately win the argument. That's the kind of oppression that she's also talking about. It's a competition And she wants her time to talk to. And yet if I'm talking, she's not going to enter into that conversation at all. And if I have added maybe three, four words, into a big conversation, the rest of the people talking, she'll be glad to talk with the rest of the people. But as soon as I start talking, she doesn't feel the same way, she feels a conflict of loyalty. She doesn't feel the same way that I'm saying, but she doesn't feel like she can overtly show people that she disagrees with it. But she can disagree all she wants. 0:29:03.


She has an image. And I have an image. At least we suppose we have images. She's very quiet, she's very tender, very soft. In the outside world. I'm very callous, very aggressive, very hard, impeccable. Those images are just about as wrong as wrong can be. People have told us that, that's how we look. And I don't suppose she's ready to get rid of her image by being aggressive. And it hurts me when people say that they don't include that I'm soft, or that I'm tender. That I'm probably desperate. 


COUNSELOR: I get feeling that "So they really don't see me, see all of me. Sometimes one size fits And they draw conclusions. 


PATIENT: This is kind of incoherent at least. It is the type of feelings that I wish I could tell her about And not have her necessarily act on them so that she stops talking all together. 


COUNSELOR: Sounds like it is both [inaudible 0:30:28] acting on things.


PATIENT: Acting or reacting or what do we do when we get it out on the table. OK, fine, we can get it out on the table, then what do we do? Where do we pick up the pieces. We just, I'm standing on that brown spot. And You want to get on that brown spot. there has to be some sort of compromise. I have to move back a little, You have to move forward a little or not quite demand the whole brown spot.


COUNSELOR: Something that has to be worked out.


PATIENT: There has to be action. I think to say that there's no action means You aren't hearing. You're shoving it somewhere which is an action of itself. I don't want her to stop talking. but I do want her to know that it hurts when she just cold-cocks me. And I've always had in the back of my mind And almost verbalized many times, that if she wasn't so Goddamn hung up it wouldn't bother her. What is she doing sitting And looking at me all the time? And being my critic? Why doesn't she fly on her own? 


COUNSELOR: Why is it so important what You do?0:31:54


PATIENT: Well, I'll tell You, what she says. Because, I have never said it that way. That really destroyed her. That could really knock her down. What she says is that she feels like people judge us by what I say. She has also said that she feels like there have been a number of relationships that could have been accept for me. Now You know that really makes You feel worthwhile. 


COUNSELOR: It is all your fault.


PATIENT: It is all my fault. So it's like getting hit in the stomach And trying to catch your breath. You can't catch it. You struggle, move around, You just can't get your breath. That just really knocks me off balance. 


You begin to generate this feeling of a kind of negativism. And that's why it really being hurt. I never allowed myself to think negative, accept everybody else. I am the only one giving back to the "be quiet time." I had to have something to make do with that.


COUNSELOR: OK. Maybe that fits into the whole pattern then. 


PATIENT: It sure does. 


COUNSELOR: Don't open your mouth, be quiet, look out, you're going to get in trouble.0:33:35


PATIENT: Fits into this whole pattern of being... of not ever being quite accepted.


COUNSELOR: It is hard for You to hold on to the positive all by yourself.


PATIENT: Right. It is something that is not quite gotten by compliments. Compliments are fine but I can't really describe it. Seems like it may be a compliment at the right time.. working hard. Wow, you've really worked hard. And I appreciate You really working hard. " But just compliments, they roll right off.


COUNSELOR: [inaudible 0:34:37]


PATIENT: Having struggled and realized that in your struggling with you they've seen that you're struggling. And you see that they're struggling. That kind of acceptance is really worth while. I can justify what these people are saying, I never was one of the group. Obviously if you're out pedaling your papers around, and not going to stop, you're not going to be in the group. I never could be one of the group as far as the girls were concerned. I couldn't bring myself to be the great male lover, so that was uncomfortable. I couldn't talk about exploits, I didn't have exploits. So that kind of tended to alienate me.


My comments were always very inappropriate, "well what did the girl think?" How did she take all that? Nobody wants to be inappropriate, you know. Nobody wants to play [ inaudible phrase 0:35:55.0] It often really saddened me. I sometimes really wanted to be just one of the group. I tried very hard to be one of the group, to go along with it. I did everything that the group did and not have any kind of comment. Disaster, I mean it really was. I almost flunked out of college. 


I was so trying to be one of the group, so trying to be average, that I lost. And then I got back to being myself. I think when it really comes down to it, I think I accept myself. I hope I accept myself. I would like to accept myself. I'm not sure I accept myself. It's sort of the credation (ph), sounds like a multiple choice. Sounds like those cards I stacked up. 0:37:05


COUNSELOR: I tell you what I hear. A feeling, a kind of validity in that somewhere. But it is very hard to hold on to when I feel that nobody else feels that. People are always, "be different. Don't be the way you are." Seeming very unaccepted And that makes it very hard to hold on to what you sense is there. But you know somehow they can't see it. They don't like it or something.


PATIENT: Quite a block. I think the solidity the very bit of my knowledge, like a block people keep chipping away at. How much is left. When you're not going to have any block left?


COUNSELOR: How long can I hold on to it?


PATIENT: It's just like this exam, two weeks I was so tied up. That's the type of thing that always bothers me. Wondering when it is going to be my turn, to have bad [inaudible0:38:19.5] to really mess up. I thought for sure this was it. I just couldn't bring myself to doing this. I'll tell you I just couldn't get myself to doing this. Couldn't get up there. Tour the stack of books. I'd read some of them, I've read others. I've had a lot of trouble pushing myself to go ahead And write the draft. 


I did a very poor job. I physically [inaudible phrase 0:38:49] Give me a dime And I'll take it, just to because I'm a nice guy. At this point I got an A.


COUNSELOR: Did you feel, welcoming?


PATIENT: I could have made an a on the material. I knew the material that I could have demonstrated it but I didn't. I was not the least bit interested in writing a paper. It didn't mean anything for me to write. Too diverse. I did it. I wrote it. Finished it. It wasn't what I really wanted. 


COUNSELOR: And you didn't want it because you felt they couldn't see the difference, they couldn't tell it really wasn't any.


PATIENT: Yeah. How much of it had to do with the fact that Chris Isman And I differ in age, maybe five, six years? How much of it had to do with the fact that Chris Isman And I both have a little boy in the first grade? In the same first grade. How much of it was the fact that we sat around parents night of first grade, chit chatting? How much of it is the fact that I'm in the second year of my PhD, And the rest of the kids in the class, most of them are first year. 


So how much of it has to do with being obnoxious And How much of it had to do with what I knew? Now I did know the material And that may have come through, as much a I tried to not have that come through. There are some other factors that I know I don't have control over.


How much of this other [inaudible 0:40:49] I don't know. And the reason I wanted to get a worse grade was because I wanted to say there are better ways to examine people. I think there's a diversity of ways to examine people. Instead of one big take home final. Because I could have taken oral on it And done very well. But that's the kind of involvement. That's How deep it goes. It permeates the whole situation in which I live. It's the desire to be accepted but the desire not to conform in being accepted. That I can be a unique person And not be accepted. 


COUNSELOR: Something in there says, "OK, sounds like maybe he accepted me because I have a child And it's his child's age. In a very conforming sense, I guess that was the more personal thing.


PATIENT: Right. Was I objective about it?


COUNSELOR: But not that he thought I was good anyway. Is it possible to commit to that.


PATIENT: He may have had my grade before he even looked at the paper. And that would disappoint me. If it was someone younger I would expect the same sort of judgment on my work. they want to give me two grades, one of the work And one on personality, that's fine with me. There wasn't really much of an affirmation from getting an A. It didn't mean much.0:42:51


It really cuts right deep into the core. Last night when I was talking to this girl I realized How conscious I was of Susan sitting in the bed. And I probably wasn't as effective to the girl If I might have been... if Susan were not sitting there. I was not always myself. 


COUNSELOR: To hear her criticize the way you were doing it...


PATIENT: Right. Because she's done that on the telephone. If you have to live like that it would drive you up the wall. To have her sitting in the background, let her talk, just let her talk ... woah. That can really send you right up a tree. 


COUNSELOR: I gather it is very hard for you to turn around And say, "Let me talk. And somehow explode back at her.


PATIENT: Right, because it comes off as really edgy. If there's one thing that I really appreciated, And this is going to sound strange, but something I needed to say. If there's on thing I can really appreciate, it's someone who can sit down And we can go at it almost tooth And nail, you know, without crying. It just distorts things for me at least when she starts with the bawling.0:44:27


That is an unfair advantage. Because while she's crying I can't talk. And if I do talk, or if I don't talk, then I'm accused of being very cold And cruel And calculating. I'll just go right back into the little bag, right back into the stomach. Never really completely gets aired. So when it does come out, it is so angry it is like opening Pandora's Box. Everything comes out.


COUNSELOR: Now if [inaudible phrase 0:45:19] well just opened it all up.


PATIENT: Yeah it would be nice. It would probably really be helpful if I said, "Why don't you just let me talk? Why don't you just let me handle it. But you see, And losing my credibility with her, I've lost a little of that credibility of myself. She almost convinced me that I'm nothing but a bag of wind. 


COUNSELOR: It is like a chip off that block.


PATIENT: Well, that's a big chip off that thing, it may be the whole block. You can appreciate the fact that, if I could convince You that You were not worthwhile And You were honest And really were trying to help people, you'd stop trying to help me. If I could convince You that You were just a failure, a complete failure between You And me And everybody else You came in contact with. That is fucked up. 


COUNSELOR: That can be very undermining. 0:46:34


PATIENT: Right. You might not stop... at least I feel like, have always felt like, at least I'M helping a little bit, if I find out that I'm really destructive, that's going to take a lot to live through. I know that I am destructive a lot of times. I know that I'M inadequate a lot of times. I never figured on being 100 percent to everybody. If I find I'm very, very destructive, then certainly something has to be done. 


She has me in a position of, that very tenuous position of feeling like I almost am very, very destructive. At least where it comes to her. I'm not at all effective. 


COUNSELOR: Feeling real shaky with that. Somehow I can't help her And I can't reach her. 0:47:52


PATIENT: I think this has a lot to do with why I felt so strongly about this other young woman that I was telling You about. She seemed to accept me. She seemed to think that I was good to talk to. Somebody that was worthwhile, And I got to tell You the story.


She went home for four days. The reason she was going home was just because she And her husband are not having a very good relationship at all. And of course she left, to talk with her husband And they decided that they would stick it out for a while longer. She went home And her husband also went home. She didn't know he was going home. He flew in that same night And she was telling me all this Monday.


She was talking to her parents And she told her parents about How we had sat And talked And... just a variety of the things that we talked about. And her parents said, "Well, tell us more." 


She said, "He's married And he has three children. Suddenly I am lost identity And gained another. Instead of being Jerry [inaudible0:49:26] I then became, "Jerry Heitz (ph), married with three children." I became Jerry Heitz, "The Adulterer." Jerry Heitz, "The Sunday School Teacher caught in adultery." 


She became, "Katherine, The Home wrecker." It really changed the picture of it all. I though last night How very interesting it was How I really thought this girl was very, very genuine, very, very real. Since she's come back of course, we haven't sat And talked, at any rate. There has not been the same feeling after Monday. 


She had almost a worship of her parents. It is very unique for a young person to [inaudible phrase0:50:31] she almost worships her parents. So what they were saying there, their gospel couldn't help but have an effect on her. It certainly had an effect on me, showed me the reality of everything. That I was no longer the Jerry Heitz that I thought. That I was, in fact, "Jerry Heitz, married with three children."


I feel kind of sorry about that. Add "Jerry Heitz, married with three children," that puts some limitations that are kind of sad. It means that in fact You can't have a love relationship with either a man or a woman because you're, "Jerry Heitz, married with three children." At least it makes it more difficult. It puts a connotation of adulteration, of poor parenthood, a whole lot of things that I'm just skimming over right Now. That's more or less the feelings I got. That's changed. I'm really kind of sad, but that has changed.


COUNSELOR: It seems like a very restricting thing. Well, I'm bound to this relationship this unit with someone, And I can't really have a close relationship with anyone else.0:52:04 


PATIENT: Yeah. And that really hurts. Dovetails right into what we were talking about a minute ago, when that relationship, if You want to call it the primary relationship is not as constructive as it... when it hurts me, hurts the hell out of me to realize the only way I can ever have another prime relationship or any other kind of deep relationship its to get out of that first relationship.


To no longer be, "Jerry Heitz, married with children," but, "Jerry Heitz, The Divorcee." Which scares the shit out of me. I don't want that. I don't want that for a number of reasons. Not unimportant to me those three children. Just very, very complex. I feel restricted in a way. I feel kind of depressed about it. I hate like hell for my children to grow up And think that their father was... like I grew up And found out that my father... 


That has to be a certain degree of an admission to it. Maybe my father was a person who was warm, who was sensitive, who needed a lot of things that he didn't get. I have been critical of him in a way that wasn't exactly fair. Maybe he didn't deserve all the things that I shoved on him. Here look at me, I'm going through some of the same trauma, And I know he must be going through trauma with it. Because he had three boys.


It's been really difficult. Of course I can't talk to Susan about it. I wish I could.


COUNSELOR: Like to be able to have something to tell her.0:54:20


PATIENT: It would be so threatening to her that, isn't really clear [inaudible phrase 0:54:31] 


COUNSELOR: Sharing a lot.


PATIENT: [inaudible phrase 0:54:40] Seems much better And it really was my primary relationship was much better. I really felt good about the way Susan And I were this weekend. And she... after I hung up the phone last night, she toe-caught (ph) with those little gems of information, It it slip through my ... She told me she was terribly lonely this week. 


COUNSELOR: And you're...


PATIENT: Monday, well, that's that Monday that I took the kids to play hockey. That didn't mean much to Susan, but stayed at the mall yesterday, went shopping with the kids, I know that's not much of fun and game time either. But, we haven't had any money to go to the show or anything. It has been a dull week for her. And of course it seems I always have my outlet. I can always go to work. 


I thought things were going well and all of a sudden it just poof. 


COUNSELOR: I thought they were together.


PATIENT: We certainly got to think we're together. With her parents being here it didn't work out well. We were really very cool to each other. Something about that phone call, something about her seeing me in action, it is very involved and I don't know the whole involvement. I don't know why, I don't know how, why and how much complication is there and how much of a feeling to say, "that's not your role. You're not supposed to be somebody who is warm. You're supposed to be somebody that is cold and calculating one. 0:56:44 


HOW much of that is, " I just don't like what you're saying, I just don't like how you're handling that person, because you tried to handle me that way and you've made a bit mess out of me. A whole lot of... a funny undercurrent that I can't even grab hold of. I can't tell which one is most accurate. IF there is one that is most accurate. All I know is that there is a lot more to it than I once thought. Than her just saying, "I think you were a big mouth tonight. 


There's a lot more to it because maybe it is my own hang up. Maybe it is a fallacy or kind of a choke, but... I want to think there's a difference between being a big mouth like I'm a big mouth, and being a big mouth who has had too much liquor to drink. Using the big mouth for an offensive purpose. 0:57:40


PATIENT: The reason I think that is because I used to do that. I didn't train. I always thought it was a good defense. He would never know where you were. At least now I'm trying to let people know where I am. In an obscure roundabout way. I have a lot... I enjoy the debate. I really enjoy the debate. It is very intellectually stimulating to me. She doesn't. And it makes her uncomfortable and it ruins the evening for her. [inaudible phrases 0:58:29] 


That was really sage advice, Jacquelyn (ph), what if I had done something drastic last week? Hopped on that plane and gone on to D.C.? I don't know. It's funny, it was the first time I'd really considered doing that. 


COUNSELOR: It was beyond this fantasy kind of thing, coming into possibility.


PATIENT: Yes. It is a little scary, because I know this girl fairly well, and I know one thing for sure, her parents do have this tremendous influence one her. 


Did you see the picture of the [three and the two on the go] (ph) Very, very quickly. The outline. It is about this guy that's married to this woman and they haven't had any children and she is very cold to him and he is driving along the road and he picks up this young girl and they go to a hotel together. He decides that he is going to run off with the young girl. Meanwhile, the young girl has moved into his house. 


Anyway, what happened, is he decides he's going to go with this young girl, and the girl doesn't want him to leave his wife. So he ends up having no one. That's scary. That really is scary. It is one thing to go from one place to another, but it is something else to have nothing.


COUNSELOR: Be out in the cold.


PATIENT: Mmhmm. Well, Merry Christmas. At least we don't have to go to a party. Get very depressed at a Christmas Eve party, people all trying to be so gay and free and that sort of thing.


COUNSELOR: Yeah, they can get pretty off.


PATIENT: We'll see you next week. 


COUNSELOR: We'll see you.


END TRANSCRIPT
