<font size="4"><b>In Vivo Desensitization</b></font>

<b>DESCRIPTION OF THE STRATEGY</b>


In vivo desensitization is a widely used, exposure-based
strategy for the treatment of anxiety, fears, and phobias.
This approach alone is a well-supported treatment of
childhood fears and phobias; however, in vivo desensitization
is often a component of cognitive-behavioral
treatment packages. Other components used in
conjunction with in vivo desensitization could include
imaginal desensitization, contingency management,
cognitive restructuring, and modeling.


In vivo means "in life," which refers to the presentation
of the feared stimuli or situation. Thus, the child or
adolescent is directly exposed to the feared object. This
is in contrast to imaginal exposure, during which the
child is instructed to imagine the feared stimulus in rich
detail. Desensitization, also called counterconditioning
or deconditioning, is developed from classical conditioning
theory. From this perspective, feared objects or
situations are classically conditioned stimuli.
Desensitization involves pairing a response incompatible
with anxiety (e.g., relaxation) with the conditioned
stimulus until the fear response is eliminated.


Treatment using in vivo desensitization involves
three steps. First, children are taught a behavior that
is incompatible with the fear response. They could be
taught progressive muscle relaxation (PMR). During
PMR, children are taught to systematically tense and
release their muscles. Throughout instruction of PMR,
children are taught to recognize the difference
between tension and relaxation. This skill is then practiced
regularly by the children. Other relaxation methods
could be taught, including deep breathing and
imagery. Often, relaxation instructions need to be
altered for the child or adolescent, depending on his or
her abilities. Other inhibitory or incompatible activities
can include hypnosis, games, edibles, humor, conversation,
and therapist contact. These may be more
appropriate for a younger child or a child with attention
problems who would have difficulty maintaining
the attention required to learn relaxation techniques.


Second, feared situations are chosen for exposure.
This is based on a fear hierarchy developed with the
child's input. A fear hierarchy is a list of anxietyprovoking
situations arranged from least to most anxiety-provoking.
The child also can rate each of the situations
using a fear thermometer. A fear thermometer is
a drawing of a thermometer that allows children to indicate
how anxious or fearful a situation is for them on a
scale from 0 to 10. Lower ratings on the thermometer
indicate less anxiety and higher ratings indicate greater
anxiety. Younger children may need to rely more on the
therapist and parent to assist in the development of the
fear hierarchy. A fear hierarchy typically includes
numerous levels, usually between 15 and 25.


Last, the child is gradually exposed to the feared
situations identified on the fear hierarchy. Each item

[p. <i>886</i>]

The exposure component of desensitization can
vary across numerous dimensions. As discussed previously,
exposure can be in vivo or imaginal. Also,
prolonged exposure or graduated exposure could be
employed. Prolonged exposure has a longer duration
versus graduated, which will involve small steps while
increasing exposure to more anxiety-provoking situations.
Rate or pace is how rapidly the client is
exposed. Several trials or exposure sessions may be
presented in close proximity, which is often called
massed exposure. In contrast, exposure sessions may
be spaced over a number of weeks. Desensitization
can occur in individual therapy sessions, as well as
group therapy sessions. Finally, desensitization can
occur with the therapist assisting during the exposure
process, the clients conducting exposure on their own,
or computer-presented exposure. The format chosen
may depend on the nature of the fear or phobia and
the individual's level of distress. For children, graduated
exposure over a number of trials is most often
employed.


The history of in vivo desensitization began in the
early 1920s. Mary Cover Jones was one pioneer in the
area of fear and phobia treatment. Jones and her treatment
of a child named Peter paved the way for future
case studies and research on exposure-based treatments
of anxiety. She treated Peter's fear of rabbits
using direct conditioning and modeling. Presentation
of food and eating were chosen as incompatible
behaviors to fear. Jones gradually paired the rabbit
and food to countercondition the fear of the rabbit and
successfully treated Peter's fear of the animal.


In the 1950s, systematic desensitization was officially
formulated and evaluated by Joseph Wolpe. It
was Wolpe who described in vivo desensitization as
a systematic treatment technique and who made this
therapeutic approach widely known. He developed
this approach from the concept of reciprocal inhibition,
or pairing of the feared stimulus with a response
opposite of anxiety to reduce the anxiety response.


Even though in vivo desensitization is a component
of an empirically evaluated psychological treatment
package, parents and caregivers may utilize this
approach informally to help reduce anxiety in their
children. For example, a parent might encourage a
child to "face his or her fears." The parent may gradually
introduce a child to the feared object in a positive
setting. One common example is having a child
who is afraid of dogs approach a dog at a party.


The exact mechanism of change of in vivo desensitization
is still unknown. Wolpe hypothesized that
counterconditioning was responsible for the effectiveness
of in vivo desensitization. Counterconditioning
involved the replacement of an adaptive response
(relaxation) for the maladaptive response (conditioned
fear). Habituation and extinction are other proposed
reasons for the success of in vivo exposure. For
extinction to occur, the individual must not be allowed
to escape the feared situation. Habituation occurs when
the physiological arousal surrounding the anxietyprovoking
stimulus subsides. Many theorists have
argued that the habituation and extinction are the main
components of in vivo desensitization that render this
treatment approach effective. Thus, some have proposed
that the relaxation is not a necessary component
to anxiety treatment.


A cognitive explanation of the effectiveness of in
vivo desensitization is a model involving a memory
network. Specifically, children and individuals with
fears and phobias have a memory network that consists
of the details surrounding anxiety-provoking situations.
Exposure creates a situation in which the memory network
is activated; however, the negative outcomes
expected do not occur. This new information is incorporated
into the memory network. Thus, a correction
in cognition occurs with a decrease in negative
thoughts about the outcome of exposure to the feared
situation. Others have suggested that as the child
develops a sense of mastery during repeated exposure
activities, an increase in self-efficacy occurs, improving
the response to future feared situations.


<b>RESEARCH BASIS</b>


Numerous reports have demonstrated the effectiveness
of in vivo desensitization to treat childhood phobias
and fears. Loud noises, water, animals, high buildings,

[p. <i>887</i>]

In addition to individual treatment, research has
supported in vivo desensitization as a component of
cognitive-behavioral group treatments for anxious
children and adolescents. For example, social phobia
has been treated in a group format. Thus, this treatment
approach has successfully been applied in both
individual and group treatment formats.


For phobic disorders in children, in vivo desensitization
has demonstrated superiority to vicarious approaches
during which the child observes the model approach the
feared situation. Also, in vivo desensitization has been
shown to be more successful than computer-generated
exposure activities. In addition, some researchers have
found in vivo exposure to be more effective than imaginal
exposure. Other research has suggested that for
younger children (between approximately 5 to 10 years),
in vivo desensitization is more effective. For older ages,
both imaginal and in vivo desensitization may be
equally effective for some feared situations. Finally,
self-directed in vivo desensitization is less effective and
can be difficult for clients; therefore, therapist involvement
may be needed during the in vivo exposure. Some
have found that a combination is successful using
therapist-directed exposure during session and clientdirected
in vivo exposure as homework. In vivo desensitization
can be effective in a minimal number of sessions
for children with some phobias. Furthermore, treatment
gains obtained with in vivo desensitization are shown to
be maintained over time.


<b>RELEVANT TARGET
POPULATIONS AND EXCEPTIONS</b>


Adults, adolescents, and children have all successfully
been treated for a broad variety of phobias and anxiety
disorders. For example, phobias targeted with
children include fear of heights, animals, tests, injections,
darkness, separation, school, water, and social
situations. Desensitization can be used in a group format,
with the child or adolescent contracting for the
exposure he or she will accomplish between group
sessions. In addition, parents may be involved with
homework activities; for example, parents may be
involved in delivering positive reinforcement for
completion of an exposure task. Often, group treatments
will include a separate group for the parents. Younger
children may have more difficulty with imaginal
exposure; therefore, in vivo exposure may be a better
choice. This approach also has been modified for use
with individuals with mental retardation and autism.
Finally, it is thought that this procedure is more useful
for highly anxious and avoidant children.


<b>COMPLICATIONS</b>


The most obvious barrier to in vivo desensitization is
resistance to engage in the exposure tasks. This complication
exists regardless of the age group of the clients.
Further complicating this difficulty, many parents or
guardians seek treatment for their children and adolescents.
As one could imagine, a great deal of resistance
for the exposure activities may be encountered from
children and adolescents who may not understand the
rationale for pursuing treatment. The therapist may need
to provide reassurance that children will work up the
hierarchy only after they expose themselves to the initial
feared situations, or a therapist may initially use imaginal
desensitization. Parental cooperation is important,
especially since their child will experience an increase
in distress during the exposure sessions.


Some have found this approach to be less useful
with those individuals with mild anxiety; therefore,
imaginal techniques or cognitive approaches may be a
more successful alternative for these patients. In addition,
there may be situations when in vivo exposure is
not possible and another approach is needed. In these
cases, imaginal desensitization or cognitive strategies
may be more applicable as well.


When preparing for the exposure phase, it is crucial
to construct the fear hierarchy so that the initial
steps produce minimal distress. This will improve the
chance of completion and success with the exposure
activity. As patients move up the hierarchy, they will
have a sense of mastery, therefore contributing to the
future success of the entire fear hierarchy. In addition,
a initial exposure session that results in a high level
of anxiety may lead to reinforcement of the fear. The
fear or phobia may become strengthened through
negative reinforcement or escape from the situation.
Subsequently, future avoidance will occur. Co-occurring
psychological diagnoses or psychosocial stressors
can create an obstacle to successful treatment. This
could include an externalizing disorder or depression;

[p. <i>888</i>]

<b>CASE ILLUSTRATION</b>


"Ann" was a 16-year-old female in the 10th grade. She
presented with a long history of social difficulties.
Both she and her mother reported that she has had few
friends and relied mainly on a cousin for social contact.
In addition, she reported numerous situations in
class that were difficult for her, including answering
questions in class and presenting oral reports. The
classroom difficulties were beginning to negatively
impact her grades. Her main concern or focus in social
situations was that she would do something wrong
and people would laugh at her or make fun of her. Ann
was interviewed and completed self-rating measures
of anxiety. At the time of assessment, Ann met criteria
for social phobia. Because her cousin was graduating
and would no longer be a ready source of social contact,
Ann was motivated to undergo treatment for her
anxiety in social settings.


Initially, she was provided education on the nature
of anxiety and provided a rationale for in vivo desensitization.
Ann was taught progressive muscle relaxation,
imagery, and deep breathing. She practiced
these skills as homework until she felt competent at
achieving a relaxed state with ease. A fear hierarchy
was developed with Ann. With the input of the therapist,
she generated a list of various anxiety-provoking
situations. She assigned ratings of distress anticipated
in each of these situations and put the identified situations
in order from least to most anxiety provoking.
The fear hierarchy was then reviewed to ensure that
the activities with lower ratings involved minimal
anxiety, therefore setting the stage for initial success.
Ann was required to contact each of the feared situations
along the hierarchy. Because some of the situations
in the fear hierarchy activity were not able to be
conducted during session, Ann was required to conduct
in-between therapy sessions. Ann and her mother
were given extensive information on how to implement
exposure in between sessions as homework.
Contracts were developed with the therapist to assist
with adherence to the in vivo desensitization homework.
The activities mainly involved increasing contacts
with peers and increasing verbalizations in class.
Subjective Units of Distress (SUDS) were used to
assess Ann's fear throughout treatment. Specifically,
SUDS ratings were monitored at both the onset and
the completion of the exposure task.


Ann had little difficulty completing the initial in
vivo exposure tasks on the fear hierarchy. As the exposure
tasks elicited more distress, she began having difficulty
with completing the tasks between sessions.
The hierarchy was reviewed, and additional steps
were added at the intermediate level. In time, Ann successfully
completed in vivo exposure throughout the
fear hierarchy, with significant improvement of symptoms
of social anxiety and social functioning. At
follow-up, she was involved in some socially oriented
school activities, including choir.


<i>Kellie A. Hilker</i>


<i>See also: Extinction (Vol. II), Extinction and Habituation
(Vols. I &amp; III), Lazarus, A. A. (Vols. I &amp; III), Self-Control
Desensitization (Vol. III), Systematic Desensitization
(Vols. I, II, &amp; III), Wolpe, Joseph (Vols. I &amp; III)</i>


<b>Suggested Readings</b>


Barlow, D. H., Raffa, S. D., &amp; Cohen, E. M. (2002).
Psychosocial treatments for panic disorders, phobias, and
generalized anxiety disorder. In P. E. Nathan &amp; J. M.
Gorman (Eds.), <i>A guide to treatments that work</i> (2nd ed.,
pp. 301-335). New York: Oxford University Press.


Barrios, B. A., &amp; O'Dell, S. L. (1998). Fears and anxieties. In
E. J. Mash &amp; R. A. Barkley (Eds.), <i>Treatment of childhood
disorders</i> (2nd ed., pp. 249-337). New York: Guilford Press.


Kendall, P. C., Flannery-Schroeder, E., Panichellie-Mindel,
S. M., Southam-Gerow, M., Hennin, A., &amp; Warman, M.
(1997). Therapy for youths with anxiety disorders: A
second randomized clinical trial. <i>Journal of Consulting and
Clinical Psychology</i>, 65, 366-380.


King, N. J., Hamilton, D. I., &amp; Ollendick, T. H. (1988).
<i>Children's phobias: A behavioural perspective</i>. Chichester,
UK: John Wiley &amp; Sons.


Marsh, J. (Ed.). (1995). <i>Anxiety disorders in children and
adolescents</i>. London: Guilford Press.


Ollendick, T. H., &amp; King, N. J. (1998). Empirically supported
treatments for children with phobic and anxiety disorders:
Current status. <i>Journal of Clinical Child Psychology, 27</i>,
156-167.


Ollendick, T. H., King, N. J., &amp; Yule, W. (Eds.). (1994).
<i>International handbook of phobic and anxiety disorders in
children and adolescents</i>. New York: Plenum.


Silverman, W. K., Ginsburg, G. S., &amp; Kurtines, W. M. (1995).
Clinical issues in treating children with anxiety and phobic
disorders. <i>Cognitive and Behavioral Practice, 2</i>, 93-117.

