*TEXT-PV010601  3 January 1972  3562
______________________________________________________________________________
PATIENT: (5-minute silence) Hmm, I've been thinking mainly about uhm, buying clothes, I think, since I came in here.  And some of the things I was thinking about buying are things that either I'd gotten and had to be returned, or uh, some things I ordered from SRB that they didn't have any longer.  And then there wa—, the stretch boots that I've had this fall, uh, developed some rips that made me want to take them back, which I did over the weekend.  And uh, apparently this was going on with this particular boot, because they took them back and they said they had other complaints. 
And, so then I get this feeling that uh, I don't know, I mean it's, they were something I had wanted for a long time and finally got this year, and then I enjoyed having them.  But I don't think I could say I absolutely had to have them out of any necessity, and uh, and yet when I returned those, I had, had this feeling which I was thinking about right now, of uhm, I don't know, being almost desperate to replace them.  And uhm, I have this same anxious feeling about these things that I ordered at SRB, where th—, u—, there was either a mistake in size, because partly, I didn't know how my, how I would fit into their things, how big their things really ran.  And uhm, and then some things that I wanted that they didn't have any longer. 
And again I get this feeling of I don't know, somehow, having to work things out, and uh, and just anyway, sort of a general feeling thatI sort of now have worked out some, some things that I'd like to have.  Th—, some of the styles that I like, and that I now know I'd g_ go out and look for.  And then I feel very much, well every time I buy anything, I have to ask MSCZ.  And what I get each month does not cover anything I'd buy in clothes.  And uhm, so I, I can't just go and do it.  And then, it's done and, I don't know, he accepts it more that way.  But I have to check with him beforehand and, he gets very mad each time. 
So then, as a result I don't, I haven't approached him about things that I don't absolutely need.  But then I, thinking about it today, I had this feeling that, well (Sniff) I can't have them, but I really want them.  Well the other thing I keep thinking is, that I remember other times recently when something else really has been on my mind, and I've ended up thinking about buying things.  (Pause)
And it seems to be something that I'd it seems to stay, in that state too, if I, I'm wondering if I had the money, and if I had the time, so that there was absolutely no hitch to my going out and buying these things that I think I know exactly what I want, I wonder if I'd be able to.  I don't know, it seems as if it's more that I like to think about it, and that I get very anxious.  (3-minute silence)
Uh, I was just thinking about uh, w—, w—, uhm, I guess one thing was some uhm, about one pan and then ah, water kettle that we're having — one has to be relined in tin and the other is getting lined in tin, it never has been.  And uh, it's in a very awkward place to go pick up.  And so I was just thinking about it, and whether or not — because I, I guess I, I know one Saturday they weren't open.  But I don't know whether generally they're ever open on Saturday.  And uhm, what I really want is that, f—, to work out somehow so MSCZ can go pick it up, because uhm, otherwise I'll pay for it.  Then there'll be a problem over MSCZ reimbursing me. 
And uhm, (Sniff) mm, I was just thinking anyway, that uhm, MSCZ's always said, "Well why don't you keep a good record of how you spend your money, so you know?"  Because sometimes I think, well I must be very extravagant in ways that I'm not recognizing.  And that's why I'm, I was, I don't know, feeling so insecure about the money that I have.  And feeling I don't have enough, or not making what I have, stretch further.  And, uhm, I don't know, it just seems like my attitude about it has been to ki—, to keep spending it while I have it, in a way that I think I'm being economical, but maybe I'm really not.  And yet I'm really not sure exactly how I spend it.  Somehow everything is (Sigh) well, not exactly a mystery, but I don't seem to want to look closely at the way I'm spending money.  But yet, then I'm always feeling very anxious about it.  (Pause)
And the other thing I was thinking about uh, sort of briefly, is that MSCZ complained about having, feeling as if he had an upset stomach this morning.  He didn't ever actually get sick, but he decided not to go into the office right away, and went back to bed — he'd already gotten all dressed, and apparently it was while he was up, after getting out of bed, that he began to really feel badly.  And then when he lay down, he felt better.  And I kept thinking that well, I, I kept thinking on one hand, he probably was exaggerating how he was feeling.  And that really he was just tired, because the last, I don't know, it seems like several nights, we've gotten to bed late enough, so it would be conceivable that he'd feel tired.  And then m—, he might not feel absolutely terrific, and I don't know, I guess I had the idea that he was babying himself. 
But then I kept thinking also, that had been my idea when he got sick in PTN before me, over Thanksgiving.  And then when I caught what he had, I realized that it was as bad as he had said.  And so today I kept thinking, well, on the one hand I'm not feeling sympathetic, because I think he's just babying himself.  And if h—, I felt that way, I'd get up and go.  On the other hand I kept thinking, well maybe he really does, and I felt very ambivalent about how to behave, I guess.  (Pause)
Well also, I, I was just thinking about finding this weekend a strain, and uhm, I'm sure I've found other times when MSCZ's been home as long, a strain, too.  But I don't know if I've ever really thought about it.  (Clears throat) And it's always the kind of thing where I look forward to his being home.  And usually I guess, I think I like it.  But sometimes by Sunday I know I've felt that I'm glad Monday's coming, and this time, since h—, well he was away Thursday, but then he was home Friday, and Saturday and Sunday, and maybe it was just something was more intensified this weekend, so I felt it more, anyway. 
But uhm, I don't know, I really felt uh, I, I didn't know what it was, except I wanted us to be back to where he went off to work, and uh, I'd have my routine without his being around.  And uhm, it seemed almost as if, when he's home, I sit around, either, either I make plans, and then they have to go exactly as I've made them, if he, especially over things where he complains, well you haven't planned it out.  Or else I am completely passive waiting for him to plan my day, a—, which will then get me to do anything.  It's almost as if I won't even be able to get dressed, if he doesn't have plans already made.  And I'm not that way, if he's not there.  Or if I am that way, I guess maybe I'm not as aware of it.  That might be so. 
But I th—, I think it must have been because he was home this morning, and even though I was doing things I would have done, even if he hadn't been there.  His being there made me sort of more aware of myself, or what I was doing, or I — something about it that, uh — I remember just being surprised to think what I really want is for him to go to the office. (4-minute silence)
Well, I'd, another thing I th—, keep thinking of, but not, I don't know, it's almost as if I keep sort of thinking, well I remember I was feeling involved then, so I must want to think about it.  And then I don't, really, or, or somehow I don't get involved again as what we were talking about on Wednesday, last week.  And uhm, because I remember after I left here, all Wednesday night I kept thinking about, I don't know, it seemed to be on my mind, I couldn't always clarify wha—, exactly what I was thinking. 
But one thing I was doing, MSCZ had to make a trip on Thursday, uhm, and go by plane.  And I always have problems over his taking planes, in that I have fantasies about something happening.  And this time I had fantasies about something happening, but I was resigned to it, and I was even planning what I'd do, how I'd make it through this year and what I'd do next year. Because something was going to happen to him.  And on the other hand, I also was thinking probably nothing will, but yet it was, I don't know, it seemed like a different approach to fantasizing something happening. 
ANALYST:   Well, it's more than 1 way to get rid of somebody.  I mean, there's, there's murder beside literal murder, is the point.
PATIENT: Hmm. 
ANALYST:   I think you'd have been saying that all today, anyway.  Mad you have to go to him for money, when he's home, you wished he'd please leave, and now you say when he flies off, you plan how you're going to make it alone.  So I don't think you've changed the subject at all, since Wednesday.
PATIENT: (Silence) Well, then I think again to the question I know I had Wednesday, of uhm — which I don't understand why I don't feel clearer about it — but uhm, I don't know, I guess it's sort of what the basis of this type of feeling toward MSCZ, is?  Or — (Pause)
ANALYST:   Yeah, well that's a perfectly good question.
PATIENT: (Silence) And I was just thinking that, I know last week, uhm, a—, some, for some reason, it seemed to confuse me more.  But perhaps that's because I just didn't want to see it, I don't know.  But uhm, it was in thinking about, first, my feelings about f—, that dream, and dreaming you'd betrayed me.  And then, taking it onto MSCZ, and feeling he'd betrayed me. 
And uhm, I don't know, I, I don't recall your words, but there was something you said at one point, mm, that I recall now, as I, I think you were just stating that, that's all along I'd had a basic quarrel with him, or basic something I, I can't remember the exact words.  And uhm, I almost feel as if after you said that, that i—, i—, what my problem is, that I began to then refuse to think any further of these things.  But because it was after that, I think, that I began to feel very confused and uhm —
And uhm, and all I remember thinking about FNAO BBK and having said there was a parallel, because I could identify with how she felt, I then began denying it.  (Pause, Sniff, Cough, Silence) Hmm, then I, I don't know why I thought this, I realize I was thinking about uhm, when FSO was born, I mean the day, the year.  And uh, trying to remember how old I was when she was born.  There must have been something else I was thinking first, but I don't recall now.  And uh, and then I just do remember that before she was born, or I guess, before she was conceived, it had always been — at some point, I don't know when I decided on this — but, it became very important to me to have at least my first child, before I was 30, or while I was 30. 
Or I guess I started thinking this, because I was remembering that another thing that was going on Wednesday, that perhaps I d—, I may have brought it up here, I don't know.  But I know I thought about it more afterwards, was this thing of uhm, my thinking of when we'd want to have the next child, and this feeling I have that maybe is — I really don't have the feeling — but I'm trying to prepare myself for the worst, that we're going to have another girl.  And then MSCZ has said he wants to try, I don't know, something he was reading about, where I guess you use solutions, or something, that will be incompatible with the sperm that would lead to a female child.  So that then, he, he wants to try to have a boy this time, because he feels if we have another girl, then he'll probably want to have a third child, which he doesn't think we should have.    

And I don't know, I, I would ex—, have expected that I'd be very much involved in trying to have a boy, and yet I, when he was talking about it, I was feeling very much, I don't know, sort of well, you can do what you want, but that doesn't concern me, or something like that.  As if sort of, I know we're having a girl, or I don't care.  And yet I'm sure I must care.  Except it's now gotten to the point where I think I'm frightened at the thought of having a boy, and it's more comfortable to think of having a girl. 
And then I began thinking of something that FNI told me today, because she's had a recurrence of the problem with her cervix.  And uh, I forgot exactly what day it occurred, but anyway, she was in bed over the weekend, and then saw the doctor today.  So I was speaking to her after she got home.  And she was telling me what the doctor had told her to do for the next week or 2.  And then she made some reference again, to when MJ was born, and I know she's always, ever since I've known her, she's referred to the awful time she had when MJ was born, and what a big head he had, and so forth.  And I, I don't know, she never went into detail, and I never asked her for the details.  And I just kind of thought, it must have been not an easy birth, and especially because he was a big baby, with a particularly big head. 
But then today she said — for some reason, I don't know why — but she gave me at least 1 detail.  That uhm, his head had appeared.  And I know with FSO, by the time her head had appeared enough so they could see her hair and all, uhm, it was really a matter of just how fast they could get me ready before she was born, and it was, well, because I was, I had had nothing, and so it was harder to wait even during that time.  But FNI said she'd gotten to that point, and then they gave her, I've forgotten wh—, what she — Cordal, or something — and she had to wait 3 hours.  Because the doctor hadn't appeared.  And I kept saying, well why didn't somebody else attend you, or I don't know, she kept saying, well they kept saying the doctor was coming.  Well the whole thing then began to sound just unbelievable. 
But when I think of it now, I, I don't know, I, I think I almost think of it now, as there FNI is, in a situation that, I don't know how she was feeling, because I didn't have what she had, which must have helped, anyway.  Or else, I don't know how you could be at that stage and not deliver immediately.  But uhm, still that it was very unpleasant, and that it was something a man was doing to her, because her doctor wasn't there, as he should have been.  Or at least, he should have then, let some other doctor attend her.  And I don't, of course again, I don't know the details, and why maybe somebody else would have if they could have.  I just don't know.  But I think my feeling is, is, FNI was put in a very bad position, and it was a man doing it to her. (3-minute silence)
And then I started thinking about uhm, the present we gave FMX, which is s—, a crocheted vest, I guess.  Well, it's a pullover, but sleeveless.  And uh, it was something that I thought was very nice.  We also got one for MSCZ's sister, but it was not something that, it's not a style I'd wear.  It's, I mean, it's very much a younger person's style, I think.  And after I gave it to FMX, I began to think well, she seems to dress very conservatively, and maybe this will be I don't know, sort of — the colors are very bright, too — and, and I don't know, I just began wondering, would this be something she'd want.  And she had it on today, for the first time that I've seen it.  And i—, and I thought it looked quite nice.  But again, I'm not absolutely certain that the style is right for her.  I can imagine MSCZ's sister in it more, I guess. 
And I don't know, I was just thinking of the fact I saw her in it.  I don't know what more I was thinking about it.  And then I think I went to thinking about FSO, and her using pacifiers.  Oh, I was thinking also of, uhm, New Year's Eve, we'd seen MEINZ and FENI, and their son MME was up when we got there.  And he had a pacifier out, a—, a—, they use the kind now that uhm, or they have the kind for MME, that is supposed to be better for your mouth.  And uhm, I'd asked my doctor about whether or not it was important to have that kind, and he kept saying, just get her to give it up as soon as possible. 
And I don't know, I kept saying, well while she's using it, which she is now, uhm, should we use that kind.  And I think his attitude was, don't invest anything more into it.  Start right away trying to get her to give it up.  And I, I just haven't, I guess, I don't know what's coming, exactly, although I imagine it's not going to be completely pleasant, but it just seems like right now, she cries every night if she doesn't have it.  So that it just didn't seem worth trying to get her to give it up, right now.  And so I was thinking about the one MME had.
And then at some point, something was said about the fact that, I guess maybe I mentioned, because they had, they had been the ones to suggest that I should get this kind, and I mentioned I'd asked my doctor about it, and what he had said.  Then, then they were saying that they had tried for a while to keep MME's pacifier just in his bed.  And at some point, he had insisted that he wanted it at other times.  And they were sort of laughing about how he'd won the battle.  And now he had it outside his bed also. 
And, so then I was just thinking again of my being unsure of just what my attitude is, about the pacifier, and, and how much, I mean, I d—, I guess I don't feel the way my doctor does.  Because I can't just go at now trying to get FSO to give it up.  I, she doesn't use it, except when she's napping, or at night.  But uhm, for awhile we used to use it if we'd be out for a long time during the day in the car, or if sh—, we were carrying her.  And uhm, we thought it would keep her quieter. 
And th—, and I've decided I really don't like using it in that way, but then sometimes we use food in that way.  And uh, (Sniff) though I seem to have very strong feelings about — I did when, when it was a question of whether to have pacifiers at all, have very strong feelings about thumb-sucking, and not wanting her to have that kind of a habit.  And I always get very upset when I have to use food as a way to kind of pacify her. (Silence)
ANALYST:   Well, our time's up.
