Transcript of Audio File:
______________________________________________________________________________
BEGIN TRANSCRIPT:
(silence thru 00:00:28)
CLIENT: I'll probably leave about five minutes early again today to get to work.
THERAPIST: Hi! Do you know that ahead of time?
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: So you don't want to sort of ask me about scheduling the appointment differently?
CLIENT: (chuckle) I just forget until I'm here. But yeah if we could...well I guess this is the only day that matters because then next week will be totally fine because the schedules worked out that way and 7:15 will be perfect because then I'll get...everything will be fine then. But five minutes doesn't bother me.
THERAPIST: You don't mind leaving early?
CLIENT: I do. I'd like the extra time, but it's not that big of a deal to me. It's disappointing, but... (sigh) I went to the doctor and she put me on the same medicine because I've had acid reflux since I was a kid, and so she suggested that I change my diet and then put me on some medication for the next seven weeks and then do a follow up appointment in seven weeks. So it's only been a week so no chocolate, no hot sauce — which is a huge thing for me, spicy foods — no coffee — this is green tea — no alcohol, and then I've been reading all about... [up on it] (ph). It's been really intense for me, just because I'm so...I love my coffee and I love my chocolate. [00:02:16]
(pause) But maybe I'll lose some weight too! (chuckle) But yeah, so...I don't know why I said that. I was just thinking it as I drink my green tea instead of my coffee I guess.
THERAPIST: But you're aware of having to go without?
CLIENT: Oh yeah! Well especially this week, I was getting two...I was watching the extra family for this week as well and I was getting there at 7 am and with the time change it was really difficult for me to wake up without that coffee, because I used to have one cup in the morning but it really does the trick (chuckle). It just jolts you awake! [00:03:05]
It's an adjustment but it's good. I'm already feeling so much better which is a relief. (pause) So hopefully, if I can just...she thought it could be potentially this other infection in my stomach but she ran a blood test and it wasn't that so I think it's just me having to get it under control. Both of my parents have had ulcers and my brother has something with his esophagus. He's pretty much as done so much damage himself so he'll throw up blood and go to the hospital. So my family doesn't have the best track record with that kind of thing. I'm trying to be pro-active; or not really pro-active because I already have problems with my reflux but I'm trying to make it better. It's going well, I guess. [00:04:11]
THERAPIST: I listened to you when I asked you about the five minutes. I'm assuming that's sort of is your tendency to sort of say that you're upset about something, you're disappointed, but anyway...Like you just kind of move away from it pretty fast.
CLIENT: Yeah, because...I don't know why. I just do that. (pause) Because I just don't want to dwell on things.
THERAPIST: What does dwelling mean?
CLIENT: Just focusing on the negative instead of (pause)...like, "Well I still have 40, so that's good!" And, I don't know. It just... (pause) I just want stuff that's not good to just be kind of gone away. (pause) I just kind of brush it off. I think it bothers Chris. Maybe...yeah, it definitely bothers Chris. (chuckle) But I just don't feel the need to...I guess that's silly to say because I'm here in therapy but I don't want to just talk about the negative, here I am in therapy. Let's all be aware of that. (chuckle) (pause) [00:05:48]
I guess I don't want to talk about the negative that I don't want to talk about it...is a more accurate way to say that. (pause) I also just take things as a criticism, always. Like, that to me was interpreted as a criticism because it was like, "Why wouldn't you be more pro-active about your own life and take control of these simple aspects that are easy to fix?" And so obviously, I don't think that's how you meant it, but maybe it is, but I don't need to take it personally. It doesn't need to be a thing that's (pause)...the last few sessions have actually been kind of difficult for me because I left feeling really bad about myself. [00:06:44]
THERAPIST: Tell me about that.
CLIENT: (chuckle) Well, two sessions ago when it was the discussion about — or maybe that was three — but, the discussion about my work situation and the money, that was really difficult for me because I really felt like it was...like, I came in thinking (pause) that my way of approaching these situations was totally logical and valid and I left thinking like, "You are such an idiot! There's this whole other side that you're not even thinking about and you're kind of an asshole."
And then last week when we were talking about I had said something to my grandmother and then it came up that I just tend to be, or I say things that can be a little harsh. I left feeling more like my grandmother (chuckle) than I've ever felt, and that really just bummed me out for a couple days.
THERAPIST: How did talking about what you said to your grandmother was harsh, how does that make you like her, or you are her? [You're not like her, you are her] (ph). [00:08:25]
CLIENT: Yeah, I then went on to say I do that with my friends and she does that and then I do that in my relationship with Chris and she does that with her boyfriend and I just saw all these mirroring things. And I saw this side of myself that just doesn't have a filter and just says whatever I want and that's what she does. And so, (pause) I just left feeling like, "Ugh. Ick." And then I brought it up to Chris and I was talking to him about it and he wasn't responding. I was like, "Well, come on, what do you think?" And he just said, "You want me to say that you're not like her and I'm not going to say it because you know, but I don't need to say that to you. You need to say that to yourself." Which is true, he's very right, but I still needed him...I want to hear it from him. [00:09:30]
THERAPIST: Well, you're saying a couple of things. One thing your saying is that things that bother you or these seven things that bother you, you want to just have go away. And so my drawing attention to it, it seems like you're like, "I want it to go away. You're doing the opposite of that." (chuckle)
CLIENT: Yeah. Like the problem with my grandmother, I'm not making it go away. I'm focusing on it.
THERAPIST: Well you want it to go away. I'm drawing your attention to well, it sounds like in that situation you are trying to communicate something that I'll hurt you and you made sort of a flippant comment back. And you heard that as me criticizing you but also like, "But I don't want to focus on that. I want to focus on something else. Why are you focusing on that?" [00:10:25]
CLIENT: I don't know. Oh, so you were saying you wanted me to focus on why I would feel the need to make the comment?
THERAPIST: Or at least I was drawing your attention to it so whether or not I was right.
CLIENT: (pause) Yeah, I know. It goes back to (pause) a couple things, that I take everything as a criticism and that I'm only going to see what's being said as...I'm going to find a way to tie it back to a negative aspect of my personality. (pause) What I heard was not that I maybe had a valid feeling or that I had something to be upset about. What I heard was that I behaved badly and that I (pause)... [00:11:39]
THERAPIST: So you heard sort of a moral connotation to it?
CLIENT: Yeah. It wasn't really like a (pause) "Why do you think you would say that if there wasn't something there?" It was... (pause), "You tend to do that. You say these things and then you wonder why people react." That's what I heard.
THERAPIST: I don't actually think I said that though. (chuckle)
CLIENT: You didn't. That's what I said in my head.
THERAPIST: So, I mean there's a couple things I'm wondering about. One is, so what can we do about that here?
CLIENT: I'm wondering the same thing. (chuckle) I... (pause) I'm very needy, aren't I? I think that (pause) maybe (pause)...yeah I don't really know. (pause) Maybe sometimes I get a little confused, I guess, about some things? So then I just need to ask if that's what you meant because that's what I do in my (inaudible) I just hear what somebody says and then I just (pause) interpret it in my head the way I will and then that's how it is. But instead what I need to do is just to say, "Did you mean this?" and say that and then have it clarified I guess? Because otherwise I get a little bit... (pause) I just take things the wrong way. [00:13:39]
THERAPIST: Well here's the thing I mean — therapy is and is going to be at times really hard for you.
CLIENT: Yeah, of course.
THERAPIST: Why do you say "of course?"
CLIENT: It should be! It shouldn't be...I shouldn't come in here every week and leave skipping down the street. (chuckle) I think that I came in here with a lot of negativity inside and my goal is to process and deal with that. And so processing and dealing with negative feelings in memories isn't going to be easy. And just dealing with negative aspects about my personality and myself, I'd really like to work on isn't going to be easy and isn't going to be fun. Like exercising, that's not a good time. But I like what happens afterwards. I feel great afterwards - not right afterwards, I don't leave the gym skipping — but later in the day I feel great. [00:14:38]
I feel like it's the same kind of thing. I feel like it's not going to always...sometimes it's great. Sometimes I'm on a run and I feel great. And sometimes I'm on a run and it sucks and I want to stop. And that's how I feel about coming here. Sometimes I'm going to come and it's going to feel great. And sometimes I'm going to come and I'm not going to like it. But I'm going to leave and I'm going to feel better about it afterwards. Sorry, I cut you off.
THERAPIST: Don't worry. I mean, I think especially for you...because part of my job - and part of it because this is what you want to work on — is to draw, not all of it, but to draw your attention to things that you do that are problematic for you because they get responses that don't make you feel good and you don't feel good about yourself. The problem is you have so much shame around it that in my, at least wanting to help you with that, if you just feel like your...the behavior that you feel really ashamed of is being highlighted and that you just feel bad. [00:15:50]
CLIENT: Yeah, I don't know how to (pause) fix that. I mean, I guess if I could just take it not personally and realize that that's just part of (pause) your personality. And you know that because even when it's talked about, it's not surprising to me. Usually it's like, "Yeah, I know. I do do that." And to just say to myself, "Well, okay, so..." And in a logical head space I could say, "Well then okay, work on changing it and moving forward from it," but it's harder when I'm more emotional and maybe my feelings are hurt. So I just have to kind of get over that hurdle of that initial (pause)... what's the word you used? (pause) I don't remember...like getting my feelings hurt or taking it the wrong way. [00:17:03]
THERAPIST: Well, we can do what we're doing now which is talk about how your feelings get hurt in these ways. In that situation with the babysitting, how did you feel like you left here? What was you were an "asshole" part? What was that? Why would you feel like that?
CLIENT: Well just because you had pointed out some things that had just not occurred to me at all. And you were saying like, "I wouldn't...like I see two people at once, I don't charge them double." And I was like, "Yeah, I get that. I see that." But I didn't see that from...and then I felt like when I had the conversation with my employer, the woman that I work for consistently, I felt like since I was so caught off guard I was rude because I couldn't see her side of it at all and I was like, "I'm going to have to think about that." And then I left and went home and thought about it and talked about it with Chris. My side of it was so...it occurred to me that I just... (pause) I came here and, I don't know, I just left... (pause) feeling like this greedy, greedy person who was trying to take advantage of the situation. And yes, I was trying to take advantage of what I felt was a good opportunity for me but I left and like, "You look like such a greedy jerk. There are more people in this than just you and these people have a say in this as well." And so, I just didn't feel good about it. [00:19:30]
THERAPIST: There's something about having an informational perspective that you haven't thought about before, that sort of "Why is someone else bringing that up?" that really upsets you. I mean, I felt like...I have other thoughts aside from that that I will share with you, but m7 just bringing in another perspective was like my criticizing your perspective.
CLIENT: Yeah, I don't know, I just took it as a criticism.
THERAPIST: Yeah, and so I'm wondering essentially why? I'm saying having you thought about it this way?
CLIENT: Because I felt like I was wrong.
THERAPIST: Like there's only one perspective.
CLIENT: Yeah, I have a hard time with that. I always...things are always just kind of black and white for me and I just have a lot of rights and wrongs and sides and winning and losing and... (pause). Yeah, I just kind of... [00:20:44]
So I left here and the first thing I said...I just kind of, the first thing I said when I walked into work after I left here was just, "Okay, how about 12 dollars an hour?" It was just the first thing out of my mouth because I just couldn't be...like it was so uncomfortable for me that I had been so wrong that I just had to get it over with and just move past it.
THERAPIST: So why...it sounds like you felt guilty.
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: So you're sort of making amends in a sense. Why can't there be two perspectives?
CLIENT: No, there can be. I just...when I feel like I'm the only one that has the one perspective, then it's probably wrong. If I'm the only one over here thinking this way, then it's probably wrong. Whether that's true or not, it's not necessarily true, but that's how I feel. [00:21:52]
THERAPIST: Well I guess, you're perspective on that is in doing double the work so you should get double the pay. I mean, that seems reasonable. I think I was responding to your saying, "Can you believe what they're doing?" And I was, "Yeah, I can believe it," because the other perspective is that they are paying you for your time versus the amount of work you're doing.
CLIENT: Yeah, and then when you said it I saw it from that perspective and then my gut is to just say if I see it that the other person's perspective isn't mine, theirs is right because I just don't...I've always done that. I feel like I'm right until I can see the other person's...that validity in their argument and then as soon as I see what they're saying, I'm always won over and whatever I've had to say doesn't hold true anymore. I just kind of go for whatever it is that they're saying. And I think that's what happened with that. [00:22:55]
THERAPIST: Like there can only be one interpretation of what reality is, what the right expectation should be.
CLIENT: I'm just not good at it. I'm not good at compromising. I'm not good at... (pause) like Chris has this problem with me right now. I'm just not good at meeting at a middle ground. I just can't do it. I want to do it and I think that I really want to and when I'm sitting there and I'm talking to somebody or I'm talking to Chris, I'm thinking like, "I'm meeting you in the middle! I've made all these — x, y, and z — up to this point." So now I'm here and here is what I'm like. But even when I'm saying it like...I'm still saying like, "Here's my bottom line." I just can't do it because then I just throw my hands up and say, "Fine, whatever you want. I just don't care anymore. I just want whatever we're talking about to be over. I don't want my...I don't care what I was saying. Whatever you said goes." Like, that's always how I feel in a disagreement, or not even a disagreement, but anytime when I'm involved in a situation where there are two perspectives. [00:24:15]
THERAPIST: Well certainly growing up managing constant (ph) conflict is sort of...it's just even ludicrous to have that concept.
CLIENT: Yeah, in my house there was just one way. There was one way, one voice, and that's it. And that's just the way it went. And I...don't like that but I guess I've taken some of that on in myself just because I feel like I take on this role of enforcer up to a point and then I feel like I act how my dad acted, to a point. I try to just be really forceful and aggressive — not the same aggressiveness but aggressive in my way — to a point and then I get resistance and then I just turn to my mom and I'm like, "I don't care, just anything. Whatever, just anything. I just don't want to deal with this." So it's like, I just have this...I don't know. [00:25:41]
It's not functional for real life. It's not a very easy way to... (pause) it makes me a difficult person to be married to and it... (pause). It just...I don't think...it's not productive for myself because then I feel cheated. (pause)
THERAPIST: Do you think your mom was like that in your household when she was married to your dad? Like, "Whatever. Just stop it. Just whatever, whatever I need to do to stop this."
CLIENT: She would say that. Yeah, that's all anything was. I mean, she'd tell stories about when we were kids she would wait up at night when he'd be at the bars, and she would wait up because she knew if she could stay awake, he wouldn't lose his shit because she'd be able to calm him down. So it was all just about managing a way to get through something. So just like, "Whatever I have to do to not have things go badly." And that's just how I always saw (pause) things. [00:27:18]
THERAPIST: It's almost like you're sort of prepared to negotiate with a tyrant too and there's no negotiating with a tyrant.
CLIENT: But at times I feel like the tyrant and sometimes I'm the one that's stomping around and saying, "We need a new couch!" Or...we never get the new couch. But sometimes I feel like the one who's stomping around and demanding things and being the tyrant. And when I'm in it and I realize that I immediately retreat and feel so badly about myself that the only thing I want to do is have it be over and I just want to give up everything I've said just so I won't have just been that person. [00:28:12]
(pause) I just wish that I could approach situations when I feel...like the baby thing. I can't approach it calmly and rationally and to this...and I can't even...even though I know that some of the things I think and feel are valid, I can't even explain them calmly to him because I get so worked up and so emotional and I immediately feel like it's being taken away. Any negotiating means it's being taken away and what I want, it's gone.
And so I just react to that instead of (pause) hearing and then I just feel...and then it's the same thing where then at the end I just feel like, "All you're doing is demanding, demanding, demanding, demanding, demanding! Just stop! You're being...you're just running over people." So then I get frustrated and then I give up. And it just doesn't get anywhere because I've looked like a jerk for pushing, I haven't made a valid point because I'm so emotional I can't articulate, and in the end all I do is give up because I'm so embarrassed with the way I've behaved. So it just doesn't get anywhere, ever. Nothing gets anywhere. [00:29:41]
THERAPIST: It sounds like so much of this happens inside. Like the negotiation happens inside and then what other people see is sort of the product of that. There's not much that takes place between you (inaudible) [push something] (ph).
CLIENT: No I give up a lot. Yeah, like in my head I do like, "Okay, alright." I make a lot of concessions in my head to a boiling point. Even my friends where it's like (pause) they want to switch the restaurant where we are eating, then the want to switch it again, and then they want to change the time, then they're running 15 minutes late. And I don't say anything all these times and then when they're running 15 minutes late, I'm like, "Oh my God, you guys are always late!" And I say something like that instead of saying something like, "No, I really wanted to eat at that first restaurant that we had all agreed on last weekend." It's like five steps in I say, "Oh my God!" (chuckle) And I know that's not the same because it's not really negotiating but it's where I feel like I let myself get to a point and then I just kind of say something about the last thing instead of...[00:30:45]
(pause) But then the other part of me says, "Well what, you want to be the jerk who's standing there and like 'No, I really wanted to go to that restaurant that we all talked about. I was really excited about that.'" And I hate being the one who stands there alone and says, "I really want to do that," when no one else wants to do that. I hate that.
THERAPIST: Well in a sense you feel yourself to be so needy and in that way you're expressing a need. It's almost like you know when you're expressing a need you're making this intense demand.
CLIENT: Yeah, I don't like that personality trait. I don't like that. I want myself to be more "go with the flow" but I'm not. And so I feel like if I just act like (pause), if I don't express it, then I'll appear that way. Everybody can tell. Everybody's like, "Jen's in a mood." Or like, "Did you want to go to that other place?" And I say, "Of course I wanted to go to that other place! We talked about it for a week!" You know what I mean? [00:31:53]
THERAPIST: So if you said, "Well, just to let you know I was hoping that we would go there." What would that feel like?
CLIENT: That would feel like I was making them feel bad. (pause) I'd feel like...and then I'd think that now all of them are going to leave and be like, "Why would you say that? It's fine, not a big deal. What's the big deal?" because no one else would say that. No one else, you know what I mean? My friends get their way (chuckle) all the time.
THERAPIST: Except your friends who get their way all the time...?
CLIENT: My one friend there kind of like runs things amongst the four of us. She takes very strong opinions and we all kind of like kowtow to whatever Emma's needs are. She's the one who has a lot of issues with food and we go out to eat a lot I guess. (chuckle) She just has a lot of little idiosyncrasies that...she's just very particular about a lot of things and they're also always late. (chuckle) And so we're always like waiting for them or doing something that Emma wants to do and it's always these big convoluted things and Chris and I are always like, "Oh my God, another thing. A list of Emma's demands again." So I always feel like I don't want to be like that. I don't want to have all these lists of demands because it's obnoxious. It's not pleasant, because none of us ever...because it's always what Emma wants and all of us just kind of go along for the ride. So I always feel like, "I want to do that. Like no one else is happy. Chris didn't want to be here. Drew didn't want to be here." The only one that's happy is her. (chuckle) That sucks. So I don't want to be that. [00:33:52]
(pause) I don't know. But we all go along with it and we all participate in it and we all do it all the time. It's just how it...we're just as much at fault for not saying, "No, none of us wanted to do that." We're all adults. We could all just say to her (pause). But (pause) that's my fear, kind of speaking up. (pause) I don't know.
THERAPIST: You mentioned sort of a conflict of needs which has sort of evolved into a power struggle.
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: And you either have to sort of comply or be a tyrant.
CLIENT: Right, because I also just don't want to deal with the hassle of negotiating for a half an hour. Like, "Whatever, let's just do whatever." I guess that's just like...I think that's just how I grew up. You just keep your mouth shut. I was just always told, "Stop whining," or, "Stop feeling sorry for yourself." Those were the two big things (chuckle). So I feel like I'm either going to be whining or feeling sorry for myself. I just don't want to do either one of those things and so I'm just going to go along. [00:35:32]
Or a lot of times what I've been doing now is just saying, "That's not what I wanted to do so I'm just going to stay back and I'm going to do my own thing." But then Chris gets his feelings hurt because he wants me to come and everyone thinks like...and then I get a text from Emma being like, "Why don't you come?" And then I get all these and it's like, "Well just because I didn't want to do what you guys were doing so I did what I wanted to do." And I feel like it's met with all these (pause)... I guess I just...I don't know.
(silence from [00:36:07] to 00:36:22)
(sigh) Yeah, I've got to work on that.
THERAPIST: What were you just thinking?
CLIENT: I was thinking about how much it used to drive me crazy when my mom used to tell me to stop feeling sorry for myself. It used to make me crazy. I remember being like, "I have plenty to be sorry for." (chuckle) (pause) But then at the same time you're a kid and so you think like, "Maybe I don't. I'm just being a whiner." Like as a kid, you just default. When you're like a 12 year old when your mom told you to "stop feeling sorry for yourself," you obviously default to what an adult, your mother, is saying to you. So that becomes...this...like "I guess I should just...I feel sorry for myself and I should just stop," even though the other...what I think is my dad's an abusive addict and I think that that's a valid thing to feel sad about to feel sorry for myself about. And so I do feel sorry for myself but now I feel bad about feeling sorry for myself. [00:37:30]
And it's just contributed to a lot of negative (pause) feelings and just (pause) not very high self esteem. Just thinking that if there is something that I do feel bad about, it just probably needs to be brushed under the rug. It needs to be sorted out because I'm probably just...I mean, just in my family, I just have a reputation of being sensitive and dramatic and being...so I've always been told that I was these things and so I'm always feel like, "Whatever it is I'm upset about I probably just need to calm down about because it's probably not that big of a deal." And sometimes that's true but (pause) I don't think that was true when I was a kid. (pause) It's just made me feel really conflicted. [00:38:31]
THERAPIST: Well if you feel there's no one to listen to you, what do you do?
CLIENT: Yeah. (pause) I don't know (pause) how I really dealt with that. I mean, I acted out in a lot of ways but (pause) I just don't (pause)... I don't want to have that part of me anymore that just thinks like it's not a valid (pause)... that negative feelings I have aren't valid. I think that was what made my anxiety so bad. A big part contributing to my anxiety was that I had these negative feelings and thoughts and didn't talk about it and thought, "You're making too big of a deal about this," and then I think I just (pause) kept it so pent up that it resulted me having a constant, undying level of anxiety. That's my alarm. [00:39:38]
THERAPIST: Does that mean you have to go?
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: Well I just want to say that I'm really glad that you brought up how hard the last few sessions have been, and I'm really glad we had the opportunity to talk about it and I encourage you to always let me know what obviously going on for you in general but what the sessions feel like, if you want to address something, if you're concerned about something so we can talk about it.
CLIENT: Okay.
THERAPIST: Okay? So I will see you on Monday. Okay, great!
CLIENT: And you should be getting...I got your e-mail about the copay changing. And I had already paid the bill so you should get that today and then maybe we can just...
THERAPIST: I'll just adjust it. Yeah, I just wanted to...they are reimbursing a little bit more so I'm happy to...
CLIENT: Oh, thank you so much!
THERAPIST: Okay, very good. So I will see you Monday then.
CLIENT: Yes.
THERAPIST: Okay, take care.
CLIENT: Thanks! [00:40:35]
(silence until 00:40:54)
END TRANSCRIPT
