

[p. <i>152</i>]
<font size="5"><b>First Person Account: Schizophrenia-A Pharmacy Student's View</b></font>

Anonymous


The article that follows is part of the
<i>Schizophrenia Bulletin'</i>s ongoing <i>First
Person Accounts</i> series. We hope that
mental health professionals—the <i>Bulletin's</i>
primary audience—will take
this opportunity to learn about the
issues and difficulties confronted by
consumers of mental health care. In
addition, we hope that these accounts
will give patients and families a better
sense of not being alone in confronting
the problems that can be
anticipated by persons with serious
emotional difficulties. We welcome
other contributions from patients, ex-patients,
or family members. Our
major editorial requirement is that
such contributions be clearly written
and organized and that a novel or
unique aspect of schizophrenia be described,
with special emphasis on
points that will be important for professionals.
Clinicians who see articulate
patients, with experiences they
believe should be shared, might encourage
these patients to submit their
articles to <i>First Person Accounts</i>,
Center for Studies of Schizophrenia,
NIMH, 5600 Fishers Lane, Rm.
10-95, Rockville, MD 20857.—<i>The
Editors</i>.


On my first day of externship at a
hospital I was waiting for the pharmacy
to open since I was early by an
hour. I was sitting in a lobby wearing
a white lab coat and required
name tag and catching a catnap. A
young male patient approached me.


Excuse me, miss. Do you know
that every morning when I get out
of bed I feel there is danger everywhere?


Because I had a white coat, he assumed
I had an answer to this problem,
or at least that I was not in his
situation and could offer some assistance.
I was taken off guard by this
psychiatric patient but said, "You
sound very frightened." He said,
"Yes. Are you sad or just resting?" I
felt he was seeing right through me.
"No," I replied, "I'm not sad; I'm just
very tired." "Oh," he said, "then I'll
leave you alone," and he walked
away.


My white coat and name tag offered
me no immunity from schizophrenia.
Pharmacy students are vulnerable
just as everyone else is, in
spite of the fact that we are taught
about all diseases as if we were an
immune group.


Inside, while I spoke to this patient
I wanted to say:


Yes, I too sense danger everywhere,
each morning and all day.
It's hard for me to get out of bed,
to go out of the house, to talk to
people; it's hard just to get dressed
and get outside and function. I'm
afraid of people, of change. I'm
sensitive to sunlight and noise. I
never watch the news or read a
newspaper because it frightens me.


Talking to this patient had made
the conflict within me very obvious.
This young man and I are related in
a way I cannot share with him, with
my fellow students, or with faculty.
Yes, I am a pharmacy student. But,
yes, I have been diagnosed as schizophrenic
and have been hospitalized
on three occasions when I could not
function. Yes, I am on neuroleptics
and must see a psychologist at least
once a week, and sometimes more often,
in order to function.


I wanted to tell him, "Yes, I know
how it feels, and isn't it terrible?"
Realization of this fact makes my
role as a pharmacy student seem
artificial—almost as if I must pretend
and cover up to get by and pass as
"normal"—and then there is always
that danger that under stress or pressure
my schizophrenia will get out of
control and I will be found out.


In lectures on antipsychotic drugs I
want to tell faculty and fellow students
what it feels like to take these

[p. <i>153</i>]

Let me explain some of the major
problems and pressures that schizophrenia
has presented to me in getting
through pharmacy school.


During my first semester of pharmacy
school I was on 2 mg of Haldol
and 2 mg of Cogentin h.s. as prescribed
for me after hospitalization
the summer before entry to school.
My condition improved psychologically
and I seemed to be in remission
until I entered school. I found I could
neither read the board nor my notes;
everything was blurred no matter
where I sat. I called the psychiatrist
who had prescribed the drugs and remembered
his suggesting that I
should take 2 more mg of Cogentin.
<a href="javascript: __showhidenote('_note_5253');">[note]</a><div id="_note_5253" style="display:none;background-color:#FFDD99;margin:0px;border:2px solid #800000; padding:2px;">1 It is not clear whether the psychiatrist
misunderstood my reason for calling or
whether I misunderstood his advice about
Cogentin. However, I later learned that
Cogentin makes blurred vision worse, not
better.</div>
I complied and the next few days I
not only had blurry vision, but I
could not even see the lines on my
notebook paper nor my writing—it
was all one blur. In fact, the paper
looked colorless. After 2 to 3 days of
this, I called the physician back and
told him I just could not take this
medicine any more, because I could
not read or see with it. I could not
even tell if I was taking notes on the
lines. This side effect, he said, was as
he expected; his recommendation
now was to drop down to only 2 mg
of Cogentin and switch from Haldol
to Stelazine 6 mg every day h.s.


This was a compromise solution
because, although I could now read
and write, my schizophrenia was not
so well controlled. I wanted to drop
out of school 3 weeks into the semester;
I was afraid to go outside and
felt as though I did not belong in
pharmacy school or would not be
able to overcome the stresses to be
faced there. Fellow students were remarking
to me that I seemed to be
more impatient, hyperactive, and depressed.
I also had problems with
what a friend of mine called "the
Stelazine stroll"—akathisia. I continued
to go out of the city once a week
to see my psychologist who helped
me with aspects of the pressures I
could not face alone or only with the
drugs.


In an effort to be self-destructive,
and perhaps as part of the uncontrolled
disease process, I stopped my
psychotherapy and medication for 3
months. I was a pharmacy student
with probably one of the worst compliance
problems possible. I should
have known better, but the intellectual
knowledge I had gained was applicable
to everyone except myself. I
was not even at this point entirely
aware of why I was so noncompliant
except that I was self-destructive. The
schizophrenia worsened and I became
depressed in addition, due to my inability
to cope. After pushing myself
to the point of a psychotic break, I
finally called my psychologist 3
months later and leveled with him
about not being on medication. He
worked with me about starting it up
again. It was now the second semester
of my first year in pharmacy
school, a semester in which the schizophrenia
remained in control with
therapy and medication.


Summer school started and I was
doing relatively well until there was
a personal crisis to which I responded
by going off medication.
After all, all these other people
around me were making it without
meds, why couldn't I? So I went on
and deteriorated during the summer
and into fall until the choice became
4 to 8 weeks of hospitalization (and
dropping out of pharmacy school as
a consequence) or taking the medicine.
I chose the latter, saying to my
psychologist that I didn't like either
choice.


I was then in my first semester of
my second year. I had just restarted
Stelazine at 8 mg h.s., an increased
dose, and began having what I
thought were seizures. In my classes I
experienced an aura and then a wave
hit me. I felt overstimulated and
could hear a lecture but not process
the information and take notes. My
hand tremor was so bad during these
episodes that I could not write. My
psychologist suggested a consultation
with the psychiatrist who had supervised
my previous hospitalizations
and prescribed the medications.


Although the psychiatrist was hesitant
to give me the label for what
was happening, I insisted, and he
said it was "transient psychotic episodes."
The problem with this development
was that it began after I
had already been taking an increased
amount of the medication. Where
could we go from here? The psychiatrist
recommended titration, increasing
the dose of Stelazine. However, it
didn't work. He then suggested taking
Stelazine alone with another antipsychotic
drug with more milligram
potency (Navane 5 mg h.s.), but I
was still having acute psychotic episodes
in my classes. I had taken to
sitting in the back of the classroom,
although I could not see the board,
because I needed to be able to leave
the room when this occurred, at the
suggestion of the psychiatrist that I

[p. <i>154</i>]

When I got up in the morning, I
could predict that the episodes would
occur and where—I had a prodrome.
There were many frantic long distance
calls to my psychologist after
these episodes. I had to tell someone
who could help me with what was
happening to me. I, at this point, felt
scared enough that never again
would I have a compliance problem.
I didn't want to lose all I had worked
for in pharmacy school. I noticed the
episodes were worse when emotionally
volatile material was discussed in
classes, such as antipsychotic agents,
characteristics of schizophrenia, depression—all
problems I had to cope
with daily and that remained unresolved
for me.


Because of my response, the psychiatrist
suggested 5 mg of Navane in
the morning and 5 mg of Navane
h.s. with 2 mg of Cogentin h.s. From
October to December, I suffered the
psychotic episodes and the problems
of getting properly titrated on the
medicine until psychotic episodes no
longer occurred. Only the so-called
"aura" remained.


As a consequence of the psychotic
episodes and occasionally having to
leave the classroom, I missed a lot of
notes in my classes. All this work
had to be made up. This increased
the pressure I was under, which in
turn worsened the schizophrenic
symptoms and almost forced me into
a hospitalization. I did not want to
drop out of school or receive too
many incomplete grades, which
would have been the result of 4 to 8
weeks of hospitalization to get properly
titrated on the medication and to
decrease disease symptoms. However,
most of my instructors had
rigid rules about missing exams and
taking make-up exams. To reduce the
pressure, I told the professor with
whom I was doing independent study
that for medical reasons I would not
be able to finish the paper due in that
course. I decided to tell him why and
he allowed me the Incomplete grade
without requiring a medical letter on
file, saving me the possible consequences
of having this information
on written record. And, moat importantly,
he did not treat me differently
as a result of knowing. This reduced
my stress and gave me time to make
up work and take my final examinations.
It also allowed me to work on
my independent study paper during
vacation and to do a good job on it
while I was finally beginning to get a
positive response to the medication.


I enjoyed winter break and finished
my independent study project without
incident, but as second semester
approached I began to fear the room
we had classes in, all the people and
stimulation, and to fear recurrence of
these episodes. What scared me most
was the fact that this disease could
prevent me from doing something I
really wanted to do and needed to do
to be psychologically healthy—that
is, complete pharmacy school—and
the knowledge that schizophrenia
does this to many people's lives. I
could not accept the fact that intelectually
I could be capable of something
that I may not at times be capable
of emotionally.


When classes started, I still felt
overstimulated and again had prodromes
of psychotic episodes. I could
not process information when people
were talking; everything just seemed
like noise. I was now on 5 mg of Navane
b.i.d. and 2 mg of Cogentin
h.s. I got up enough courage to sit in
front of the class again, but I was
very fearful. My psychologist explained
that I had begun to associate
that classroom with these episodes
and that extreme anxiety was causing
dissociation reactions in me: I felt I
was outside my body; I was watching
everything. I wanted an antianxiety
agent to get rid of these feelings
and that constant impending feeling
that a psychotic episode would begin.
The psychiatrist prescribed 5 mg of
Valium in the morning and at bedtime
when necessary. I took it only
in the morning when I could not restructure
my environment and situation
to reduce the anxiety. For the
first several weeks I was falling
asleep in my first class and had
double vision because I could not
keep my eyes open. Finally, I became
tolerant to the sedative effect.


So this is the answer right now for
me: neuroleptics, an antianxiety
agent, an anti-Parkinson agent, and
intense long-term psychotherapy with
my psychologist. And I still look
around at my fellow students and
say to myself, "they do it without
medicine, or doctors, or going to a
psychiatric ward," but I needed all
these things to cope with the pressure
and stress of pharmacy school and
life.


What I have been trying to express
here is the actual reality of what being
"individually titrated to an antipsychotic
medication" and having
schizophrenia means to someone personally
going through it as opposed
to how objectively and easily it is expressed
in pharmacy classes. My instructors
have stated that "antipsychotics
alleviate symptoms but do
not cure psychoses," but this matter-of-fact
statement has a very personal
meaning for me. It involves internal
conflicts and many complicated
adjustments—getting to a psychologist
outside the city, or if the necessity

[p. <i>155</i>]

I recall a teacher, a Pharm.D., telling
the class that schizophrenics tend
to have low IQs. He was wrong; the
research does not support this. They
probably do tend, because of the disease,
to be more environmentally deprived
and have interruptions in their
schooling.


I have heard fellow students talking
about violent crimes saying, "Oh,
you know that person was schizophrenic."
No one is teaching these
health professionals what the word
means, what it does to people, and
that schizophrenics are generally less
violent than the rest of the general
population.


Finally, I heard a teacher in one
ciass talk about long-term chronic illness
such as schizophrenia in a way
that suggested the teacher knew
something about the disease and had
looked beyond the myths. Through
this class, I began to understand a little
better my own noncompliance
with the psychotropic drugs; how unacceptable
my illness was not only to
me, but would have been to others if
they had known my diagnosis. I
didn't take the medicine at times because
I didn't want the disease, its
problems, and its stigma. I wanted to
be normal. And even now in 1980, in
a professional pharmacy school, it
would probably shock many people
to know a schizophrenic was in their
class, would be a pharmacist, and
could do a good job. And knowledge
of it could cause loss of many friends
and acquaintances. So even now I
must write this article anonymously.
But I want people to know I have
schizophrenia, that I need medicine
and psychotherapy, and at some
times I have required hospitalization.
But, I also want them to know that I
have been on the dean's list, and
have friends, and expect to receive
my pharmacy degree from a major
university.


When you think about schizophrenia
next time, try to remember me;
there are more people like me out
there trying to overcome a poorly
understood disease and doing the
best they can with what medicine
and psychotherapy have to offer
them. And some of them are
making it.

