<font size="4"><b>January/February/March/April: Engagement</b></font>

SESSION 190, WEDNESDAY


<i>Masculinity and Atonement</i>


MARGARITA WAS THE first girl with whom I felt
masculine, because she looked up to me for guidance. I was
a sort of father to her. I believed that you aren't a man unless
you're a father. I used Marg as a means to an end, in order to
show up Pop. By my building up Margarita till she formed
an attachment to me, she preferred to play with me rather
than Pop. I felt guilty when I "deserted" her to join the Navy.
One night she complained to me, "Why can't we be happy
like we were before the war?" She must lead a barren, lonely
life!

[p. <i>210</i>]

I guess she needs me, but she never confides. I feel guilty
about her, as if I've failed her. I couldn't win her, so I don't
feel like a man. But I don't want Marg physically; she's not
my ideal. I'll take her, though, if I can get her. I wanted
Marg as a "better wife" than Pop had, to show him up.


I fear sex 'cause I fear rejection. The girl will say I'm
not manly enough: "Don't bother coming back, kid!"


The only reasons keeping me home now are money and
Margarita. When I graduate from college and can land a job
I'll get Marg away from Mother's influence, and never go
home again.


I wouldn't care if I never saw Mom again. It might do me
good. Why do children keep yearning for even inadequate
parents? I feel driven to clear up this unfinished business of
getting the folks to accept and love me.


At seventeen I had the habit of washing my hands after
doing anything, even after writing a letter. My hands felt
"uncomfortable" and "gritty" even when just reading a book.
The very least I'd do was to moisten my fingertips to remove
the accumulated "dirt." The folks always harped on cleanliness
being kin to godliness.


I had a compulsion to change my socks daily, not in the
name of cleanliness but because I felt pushed to do it. Just
as with a condom, once I'd removed a sock I couldn't stand
putting it on again. These regulations applied also to my
underwear, so life became a mad, complex routine.


The hands were considered the "dirtiest" part of one, since
our parents always yelled at us not to touch our "privates."
If the hands touched the genitals they got "dirty." I hate to
clean my room and get all covered with dust, for dust means
sin. I'd rather let the dirt lie around or hide it under the rug
than get it on me.


I also feel the need to keep some part of me active and moving

[p. <i>211</i>]

I have to keep bouncing around, doing something. Thinking
is an empty thing, gives no impression of doing anything. I
used to bite my palms and fingers. I was very small when I
first started to fidget. Soon it controlled me. I must do <i>something</i>
at home, so I play with myself to get rid of my pent-up
anxiety. It all seems to relate to my pointer. I must be quite
sure I still have it and that it's in working order. I keep waiting
for the family to give me a sign that I can use it.


SESSION 196, WEDNESDAY


<i>Birth Crime</i>


THERE WERE TWO major influences in my life. "You
caused me so much trouble when you were born!" resulted
in guilt because Mom had been cut up at my birth. "You're
so good, you're a little angel!" resulted in my perfectionism
and self-conscious shyness. This caused a conflict, since I
couldn't be "perfect" if I had "hurt" Mom through the
Caesarian. I tried to please my parents but felt inadequate,
as if I could never do enough for them.


The more I struggled to ward off guilt the more I was aware
of it. So I sank into a lethargic state to escape the terrible
conflict. Apathy seemed the only way out.


Prior to analysis I suppressed guilt. During therapy everything
came boiling to the surface—I became aware of my
guilt so I could understand and forget it. But I resented my
new knowledge; it made me think.

[p. <i>212</i>]

That's why I hated you at times. You seemed at first a
"slave-driver," keeping me from the pleasure of daydreaming.
I wanted to sink deeper into lethargy and forget life. I
wanted to swim in deep water and never come out. Like
Garbo, I "vanted to be alone"—to be done with this suspense
of awaiting the Last Judgment. You kept diving into the
water to hold my head up so I wouldn't let myself "drown."


As a little child I recall seeing Mom naked, asleep on her
bed in summer, her legs spread apart in relaxation. Her
black sex triangle was bushy and full, and I noticed a scar
about four inches long descending toward her hole. I wanted
to curl up between her legs, dive inside and regain her inner
warmth and security. I thought of returning to the womb in
dreams too.


I would overeat and fancy myself in a bloated state. I had
to have a baby in some way to prove I wasn't guilty, that having
a baby did not cause Mother pain and "castration." I
played with my rod, but no baby came out that way, just
"milk." I wanted to prove that birth was fun, and that using
the pencil did not result in its loss, so I used it over and over.
No wonder I feared Mom's wrath so long! I awaited the ultimate
punishment for depriving her of the symbol of her
power, removing her penis through the Caesarian section at
my birth.


Some people gab about the "good old days." That's for
the birds! I wouldn't go through childhood again for all the
houris of Arabia. The more I thought in those days, the more
screwy I got. I'd fancy a solution to a problem, but that
didn't solve it, nor prevent me from inventing new "problems."


Nothing worked out right in my head. I saw my folks running
around like ants, knocking themselves out in overwork,
but never enjoying the fruits of their labor. I outsmarted

[p. <i>213</i>]

At fifteen I saw the movie <i>Tombstone</i>, in which, at the end,
everyone gets shot and a Spanish guy says, "Life, she ees just
begun, and before you know it, eet ees all over!" I've never
forgotten that. The thought of being "safe" was always tempting
and enticing, going down into oblivion in space, a sort
of Hindu nirvana with neither worries nor fears. I've always
made life into a movie with a suffering-hero theme. But I
couldn't bear too much pain. I'd rather die at once and get
it over with.


SESSION 197, FRIDAY


<i>Mother's "Machine"</i>


IN CHILDHOOD I lacked excitement and stimulation,
so I jerked off to get it. Sex helped a lot in creating novel daydreams
to fill my bored and vacant mind. But it would also
kill the day, giving me a futile, depressed view toward accomplishment.
Self-satisfaction helped me to suppress, at
other times stimulated, incestuous thoughts about Mom and
Marg.


I occasionally fancy socking Mother in the jaw, dragging
her by the hair to the back porch, throwing her over the railing,
and locking the back door. But I would still have impulses
toward her even if she stayed away. It would help,
though.


Prior to analysis I played with myself to fantasies of
twelve-year-old girls. Later you helped me realize that this
related to Sis.


I once thought of Mom having a somber "machine," well-oiled,

[p. <i>214</i>]

Another clue to this "castration" business appeared at ten,
when I saw some blood on cotton in the toilet. I was frightened.
I figured that someone had been seriously hurt, ran
downstairs. By contrast to my pounding heart, Carl and Mom
were calm, showing no ill effects. I wanted to scream. No one
recognized the crisis I had discovered. Everything seemed
okay. I was afraid to ask any questions for fear of making a
fool of myself if it was a false alarm.


I used to figure that menstruation was some mysterious
"sickness" or "accident." I felt somewhat guilty that I had
seen something in the bathroom I wasn't supposed to know
about. Now that I think of it, the cotton might have been
smeared with lipstick or fingernail polish.


SESSION 202, WEDNESDAY


<i>Neurotic Equations: Apathy Is Loyalty,
Kindness Is Weakness, and Aggression Is Power</i>


BEING ON AN empty bus late at night makes me feel
lonely and rejected. Everyone has someone warm to be close
to, to sleep with, to seek comfort from. I want someone to
care for me. I want Mom to be awake when I return late from
a date, even if she nags about it! I hate the sidewalk din of

[p. <i>215</i>]

I haven't always been emotionally "dead." As a kid I used
to run around and have feelings, but I lost them after Pop
kicked off. I guess I've been "castrating" myself, and verily
living with Pop in his coffin. Since Pop's penis was dead I
gave up sex too, planning to enter a monastery.


I can't distinguish between kindness and meekness. If a
man is kind like you, I figure he has no backbone. If you're
mean to people you can't get hurt. If you're nice to them they
step all over you. So I figure that the aggressive individual is
the strongest.


The fellow who does favors is a jerk, for he gets no return
for his trouble. But the fellow on the receiving end is a
scavenger. I'm afraid <i>not</i> to be hostile, because the belligerent
guy takes command of the situation and makes others afraid.


I always liked to identify with Dom; he was the aggressive
side of my fancied nature. My sarcasm and self-assertion are
a fake to test how much I can get away with before being
clubbed. I want to be dominant and vibrant, and not have to
take any bull from anyone.


SESSION 215, FRIDAY


<i>Helping Margarita</i>


To TELL THE truth, I never believed that I had a
ghost of a chance to get well! I liked to come here as a friend,
'cause you made me feel more self-respect, and helped me
to understand myself and others better. You gave me a boost
by accepting me and not treating me as a crud. But when I
realized how sick I was, I saw no possible hope of getting
well. I didn't know what it meant to be well, to be calm and

[p. <i>216</i>]

I never had any genuine hope for recovery. I thought that
compulsions, phobias, and the like were something to treasure
and encourage as a means of creating "excitement." Each
person chose his own device for pleasure. My fantasies, delusions,
and hallucinations were all very real to me.


I even saw Grandfather sit up at his wake not long ago.
He climbed out of his coffin and approached me. I guess I
was pretty suspicious about people then, wearing my coat
collar up and casting anxious glances from side to side as I
walked along the city streets....


I'm going more or less steadily with a cute, slim blond
trick named Penny, although we have an understanding that
we're free to date others until we're sure of each other. She
dresses beautifully, and I don't seem to fear her, which indicates
progress. I used to dare to see less enticing girls only a
few times each. I feared that my impulses would get out of
hand and I might knock up the girl, or cut her in some way,
bringing shame to the family. She might bring me to court,
as Dom's girl once tried to do before Pop interceded with the
judge he knew.


I believe that Dom is a sad case, for he won't let Marg go
out and have a good time with a fellow named Pedro, or even
with her girl friends. She probably chose someone with my
name 'cause she secretly prefers me. Dom took the car keys
last Saturday, announcing that he was going to fetch Marg
from the party where Pedro brought her. Dom said that Pedro
would "corrupt her." But I've met him: He's young, naïve, as
mild and timid as I was, and quite harmless.


I ran out to the car to stop Dom, and the fight of the year

[p. <i>217</i>]

Dom excludes sex from normal living, considers it a "perversion."
He's worse off now than I ever was, but, as you
once remarked, those who have the guts to get help are
usually not as sick as those who think they're perfectly normal.
He makes fun of my seeing you, but I feel sorry for him.


Penny says she liked me initially because I was "quiet,"
but prefers men a little "rougher." She seems to note a change
in me, that I'm not a lily-foot any more. It doesn't seem to
frighten her.


Penny has some of the symptoms I used to have, so I can
better appreciate what you've gone through, enduring me for
a year and a half—because I can't stand her at times. She
irritates me when her behavior recalls my foolish ways of the
past. But she has her good points too.


SESSION 220, WEDNESDAY


"<i>No Sex Without Love</i>"


I try to force myself to "love" Penny so I can justify
having relations with her. My rule is: "No sex without love."
I'm still hunting for sex without guilt. Girls wonder what
holds me back. I frustrate them so, I feel like a heel. I fear
that if Penny sees too much of me she'll tire of me, find me
a bore. I should think a girl would lose interest in making
love all the time.

[p. <i>218</i>]

Sometimes I interpret Penny's problems till she shuts me
up and won't talk to me any more.


Penny looks prettier each time I see her. I'm sometimes
afraid Penny's personality will grow so strong that she'll
attract stronger men.


I felt good after last session on the bus home, smiled at
other people. I used to feel terrified that someone in back of
me would pounce on me. I used to fear Penny's boy friends—
that they would force their way into the back of my car, toss
me out, and take over. I knew she was popular in school, so
I felt I didn't have a chance. For half a year after we met I
pretended a lack of interest. Finally I got enough courage
to ask her out and was surprised when she accepted. She
confided later that she had wondered how long it would take
me to get up nerve to ask her.


Sometimes I compete with Penny like mad, trying to outdo
her by having more friends than she has. I've never complimented
her on her caresses and kisses, although they're out
of this world. She's passionate and puts a lot into them. She's
good for me, loosens me up.


Penny enjoys love-making too, so I don't feel ashamed of
it or fear I'll hurt her. She has a ring through my nose, but
luckily she doesn't know it.


Sometimes Penny is cool to me. She's probably testing me,
to see if I really care for her. I bring out her problems on
purpose and then show her that they're not so bad, so as to
build her up. I break her down so she needs and leans on me.
After I have her I won't know what to do with her. But I want
her to want me more than any other guy. I'll accept any
standard that gives me a build-up in her eyes. If virginity is
admired, I'll be one.

[p. <i>219</i>]

SESSION 222, MONDAY


"<i>To Be in Love, Yet Free</i>"


SOMETIMES PENNY SEEMS too stable. I've never had
a natural relationship before. I fear the responsibility of it.
It's more difficult to relate to someone who's normal, for I
don't feel free to do what I want, to love and run away. If a
girl's a jerk, one can always give her up with some excuse.
There's too much pressure in being attached to someone worth
while. I won't be able to concentrate on my homework if I'm
thinking of Penny.


It's all I can do to care for myself, let alone a wife. My
life goal has been to wander from city to city as a handyman,
getting odd jobs as I go and shacking up with a different dame
each night. Once you're tied down you can't fool around.
Penny's so well adjusted that I can't cross her off my list as
easily as the others. "To be in love and yet free from the
bonds of love!" To love Penny without her knowing or returning
it, so I can be free!


What would happen on my honeymoon? What would Mom
say or do? Carl had diarrhea on his honeymoon. It was easy
in the past to consider marriage, since it was something vague
in the dim future. But now it's breathing in my ear. Mom
will ask, "Is Penny good enough for you?" and I'll ask if
I'm good enough for her. Will Mom get mad when she finds
out, as Penny's mother did, that Penny's not a virgin?


That's why I wanted to be a drifter: one-night stands in
different cities so Mom could never catch me and give me the
ax for indulging in sex with someone other than her. I don't
dare bring pretty girls home, for Mom would get jealous and

[p. <i>220</i>]

Seeing a girl only once or twice keeps Mom from thinking
I take her seriously. As far as Mom is concerned, I can have
all the girls I want. But the girl I marry must be like Mom
and Sis, or no dice.


But I'd be crazy to give up Penny. She's a good catch. I'll
ask Penny if she wants to marry me after graduation next
year. I'll tell her that we're free to change our minds during
the coming summer and winter. We can still go with others
till we're sure.


SESSION 223, WEDNESDAY


"<i>Penny's Alive!</i>"


I TYPED UP a long dream from Sunday morning
[<i>Dream 20</i>] with lots of shooting and fighting, and a sexy
ending. I'm bolder than I was, able now to take initiative.


I guess an incestuous type of love is safe 'cause nothing
can come of it. That's probably why I've stuck with my family
so long, not having to take other women seriously. It has relieved
me of facing life, learning to know people. I've never
admitted the intensity of my attachment toward Sis. Apparently
my goal has been to win Mom and Marg so they'd
care for me the rest of my days.


Mother says she doesn't mind what I do as long as I'm
happy. I guess I'm a liar when I say she's "mean," forcing
me to do things. I just wanted to sit on my can and get away
with it; blamed everything conveniently on Mother. Life at
home was too lazy, too easy. It spoiled me for adulthood. I
don't know why I thought fear kept me home. It was laziness,

[p. <i>221</i>]

Now Penny enters my life. Quite a change from Mom and
Sis. Penny's alive! I'm willing to trade in my apathetic life
for her! But it won't be a snap to give up my soft existence at
home. I've got an easy racket, Doc. The best thing Mom could
do for me is throw me out. But she won't. She and Marg
broke down and wept the last time I announced my intention
to move into a boardinghouse. But I've got to do it as soon
as I can afford it.


I'm nursed into apathy at home: poison in the ice cream!
It's a mental trap. I've been sacrificing my mind, my self-respect,
and my happiness for ease in getting food, lodging,
clothes, money. Mom looks after all my responsibilities, but
this has done me no good. I'm going to quit.


I saw that Mom made out a will before she took her
Hawaiian vacation. I'm not sadistic, just looking after my
own interests. At the last moment I tried to discourage her
from going because of the expense, for I might need that
money someday. But then she needs some fun, so I let her go.


Sometimes I wish I were a psychopath without a conscience,
so I could do things without guilt, be lazy or even murder if
I felt like it. I would like to choke Penny, that S.O.B., destroy
the evidence that I like her and that she seduces me to sexual
activity. She defiles me because she's had other men before
me. I'm mad that she didn't know me before. I thought that
<i>everyone</i> knew me! Penny thinks I don't give a hoot what she
does with other fellows. I pretend indifference, but it hurts.
I slouch off, the willing martyr. But I'll have to stop acting
the child, or Penny may get interested in someone else.

[p. <i>222</i>]

SESSION 224, FRIDAY


<i>Bikini Blonde</i>


IN THE NAVY I was given boot training in small craft.
Last Saturday some fellows at college invited me along in
their car. They know a guy, Mike, who keeps his ketch tied
up along the L.A. waterfront.


Jenny, a pigtailed, plump little blonde, wearing a cute
two-piece chartreuse bathing suit, accompanied us.


It was a dazzling bright day, the sun reflected off the whitecaps
on the ocean. The two-masted ketch looked freshly
painted. It had a cabin below deck with double bunks on each
side. Mike was puttering around, agreed to take us on board
if we helped repair a ripped sail.


Soon we were out at sea. Jenny felt ill, disappeared below.
Since there were more fellows than needed on deck, we took
turns keeping Jenny company so she wouldn't be lonely.
When my turn came, I found her tying up her swimsuit strap.
Joe, who had just climbed to the deck, must have been having
a time.


"Hi, Pedro?" exclaimed Jenny. "Hi!" I replied, and
reached to help tie her strap. Tired of being chicken all my
life, I changed my mind and impulsively pulled her bra-top
off her large, bouncing charms. Reaching for the waist of her
shorts, I peeled them down her bronze thighs.


She smiled with just a hint of shyness, looked up at me
expectantly, with the gaze of a kitten, innocent, yet worldly-wise.
No words were necessary.


She offered no resistance when I took her hand and pulled
her over to one of the bunks. Pressing her warm body to mine
as a symbol of final triumph over my fears, I enjoyed the
best relationship with a woman I ever had, and the first one

[p. <i>223</i>]

Mike went below while I took a crack at the wheel. I figured
that Jenny by then had her suit back on. Suddenly a
piercing scream echoed over the water. Al and I clambered
down the ladder, almost falling on each other, to find Mike
wrestling with Jenny. We grabbed his big shoulders and
fought like wild animals to tear him loose from the girl,
whose bikini was partially ripped in front.


Mike was a big, powerful man, and we weren't making
much headway. He cussed a blue streak and his right elbow
hit my eye, my face starting to throb and swell. Joe, who had
grabbed the wheel, locked it in position and dashed down to
help us. The three of us finally pulled Mike off the cringing
girl and pinned him down. "I was only giving her a little
kiss," Mike groaned underneath our weight. He glared at us
angrily and made a futile attempt to rise.


"You kids can get the hell off my boat!" Mike yelled. Joe
replied, "Sure, as soon as you take us back to dock." Joe had
a cut on his forehead from hitting the bulkhead, and we were
all pretty roughed up.


Released, Mike sheepishly went up to take over the wheel,
pointing the boat toward land again. Al and I hunted up a
first-aid kit to care for Joe's bloody head. I dipped an old
towel into the icy sea water and applied it to my throbbing
eye, now swollen shut. The cold felt good.


We found a rusty safety pin in the storage locker and did
a temporary repair job on Jenny's suit. We were a sorry lot
as we landed at the dock and strode to our car. We didn't
say a word to Mike. We could feel his stare piercing our
backs.

[p. <i>224</i>]

I sat in back with Jenny, who was still trembling with excitement.
As she cuddled for warmth and reassurance in my
arms, I asked her in a whisper what Mike had done, wanting
to compare notes, I guess. "Mike's old enough to be my
father," Jenny explained, "and he started to get fresh with
me, so I screamed. You guys came just in time." My curiosity
was satisfied, and I felt good that she enjoyed making
love with us fellows and refused the boat-owner, who could
have offered her much more in worldly goods.


My self-confidence improved from that experience because
we fellows had stuck together without fear. I gained self-respect
and knew how it felt to be a man!


There was another fight I won't forget, when some fellows
off ship went with me on liberty to a Frisco bar. Some "4-F-er"
made a crack at one of my buddies, ending with: "You guys
think you're so damn hot, wearing a uniform!" The civilian
and our shipmate wrestled on the bar seats. Some other
civilians ran over to help, so we sailors dashed into the middle
of the fray, which ended in a wild free-for-all.


The melee hit next morning's headlines in California, complete
with gory photos, for one sailor and the 4-F-er were hit
by jagged bottles and knocked cold. The rest of us beat it,
leaving the two guys lying in a pool of blood on the floor; we
knew they'd be cared for when the ambulance arrived. We
couldn't beat so many civilians. If we hadn't left we would
have gotten an indefinite stay in the brig.


We were horrified to read next day that the sailor died of
a broken skull. But the civilian survived, after a sewing job
at some hospital. When on liberty in Frisco we often hunted
the street for that guy, but we never found him. We were out
for blood to avenge our friend's death. Someday we'll find
the guy who killed him, and make mincemeat out of his hide.
But we avoided that bar, for we had seen enough trouble.

[p. <i>225</i>]

SESSION 225, MONDAY


<i>Pedro's Proposal</i>


IT WASN'T APRIL FOOL'S DAY, but I proposed to
Penny last night! I told her she had the summer and winter
to think it over. All the mystery is gone from sex, and much
of it from science and other subjects. I'm stronger and more
improved than I realize. I've been taking life too seriously,
which makes it seem colder, more difficult, and more dangerous
than it is. I excused my avoidance of pleasure by rationalizing
that success required dead seriousness, a grim,
hunted look like Father's.


I used to think that to be emotionless was to be an adult.
But I never knew where to direct all my energy. Anyone outgoing
appeared abnormal to the family. One should not be
active, but calm and quiet, to be considered mature, I believed.
As soon as I become genuinely emotional and extraverted,
analysis can be a thing of the past. I can turn my
attention to getting a place to live and knowing more about
Penny. I used to worry that if I let go and began to laugh and
sing in the streets, people would think me nuts, but I'd say
it was your "fault" for liberating me.


I pretended to hate you in order to cover up my longings
for you. I had to keep you at a distance for fear of what I
might do. Often I wanted to wrestle with you, but not for the
purpose of fighting. I started channeling off my homosexual
impulses through competition at eight years of age in private
schools, since there were only boys there. I felt that I'd be
rejected if I expressed myself. Homosexuals conceal their
sexual interests behind a front of hostility, stubbornness, and
competition, all of which I had in abundance.

[p. <i>226</i>]

INTERLUDE, TUESDAY


<i>Penny Serenade</i>


[<i>Following Pedro's proposal of marriage, Penny
paid me a visit at my office. Some of her verbatim impressions
of Pedro follow:</i>] Pedro is nice-looking, he has a nice
build, and I like his personality. I've known him since he
transferred to my college. He likes me enough to marry me,
and he has given me six months' grace to decide whether I
want to accept him.


I had a crush on him last fall, but he didn't know about it.
I was in the college library, looking at a book on Persia and
Afghanistan. I hadn't the slightest intention of taking it out,
let alone reading it! Pedro noticed me and I told him I
studied a different book each week on some subject new to
me. Apparently this impressed him a great deal.


Pedro used to feel sorry for me and my problems. He
didn't know they revolved around him! I plotted with my
cousin to trap him. There was a sorority dance at college. I
begged Pedro to buy a ticket, telling him I was having trouble
selling them. I hoped he'd take the hint and invite me. I
heard he first asked another girl, who turned him down.
Finally he phoned me, and we went to the dance and had a
good time.


But we didn't date again till some time later. In the library
one day Pedro deserted a girl he studied with, which was
hard on the girl, and came over to ask me out. He'd make
dates for the weirdest nights, like Monday or Tuesday, but
I guess he was busy other nights. He had the strangest ideas
at times, inviting me for a midnight swim on a chilly night,
or to a dance on a hot one! I progressed from Monday to

[p. <i>227</i>]

I sometimes tell him little white lies so he won't get jealous.
I don't want him to know that I refuse to stay home alone
when we can't see each other. I do the same with all the fellows
I date. When he finds out it makes him furious. But I
admire his usually calm manner. That's what appealed to me
in the first place. He's easygoing, affable, hard to annoy, takes
teasing well unless it gets too barbed.


But he amazed me by getting angry at my friend Bert when
Bert jealously trailed us in his car. I suggested that Pedro
give Bert rumba lessons, and Pedro thought me serious and
got mad. He decided I was too involved with Bert and that
I should choose between them rather than keep both on a
string. He's more of a man than I took him for. When he lost
his temper over Bert I was glad he stuck up for his rights.


That was the only time we argued in anger. You can't make
him openly scrap. He's a real diplomat. If you differ with
him he'll say, "Well, maybe you're right." He's a marvel
with parents; he knows how to handle them and what to say
at the right time. He discusses current topics, but lets my
folks do most of the talking, building them up.


I think that the only reason Pedro proposed so soon was
because he found out that Bert had proposed too. Men in
general are a deceitful lot. They say things to get a rise out
of you. They tell you how nice you are, then give the same
pitch to a different girl the next night.


When I'm with Bert I like him best; with Pedro, I like
Pedro best. But with Bert I often think of Pedro. I'm all
confused. I can't decide. Pedro and I agree on one thing: we
don't want children at the moment. We never talked seriously
till after his proposal.

[p. <i>228</i>]

Last Friday Pedro asked me out for Saturday night, or
else, he said, he wouldn't go with me at all. So I told Bert
that my parents felt I was going with him too much and that
I could see him only every third Saturday. I don't know if
I'd want to marry Bert. I hold him as a sort of reserve, just
in case Pedro changes his mind. Bert orders me not to kiss
Pedro, which of course I do anyway. Someday Bert will
throw up his hands in disgust and leave me. That's okay with
me!


I like Pedro more and more. We've both gone through
college and have similar ideas. I don't want to lose him.


SESSION 226, WEDNESDAY


"<i>Oriental Shrine</i>"


I TRIED TO force Penny into marrying me now,
'cause Nora's mother has a little guest house for a reasonable
rent. Penny's folks are pushing her to marry, but they favor
Bert, the jerk. They're out for the highest bidder, and Bert
has a good job that brings in the dough. Penny said she's uncertain:
"It's too soon to decide." If she can't make up her
mind by Christmas I'll ditch her. I'd be losing out with other
girls if I wasted time with Penny.


Nora has noticed me change. She says I'm more outgoing
and happy at home. I used to want everyone to be weak and
sick so they wouldn't shame me. I figured that other people
progressed at the same speed I did, for it seemed as I got
better that others did too. Now I want people to be as normal
as possible, because then it's more fun to know them.


I used to be tense as a protection, for if I relaxed completely
I'd want to play with myself. I'd like to come to sessions
because then I couldn't be tempted, although there were

[p. <i>229</i>]

Margarita was born when I was twelve, just beginning my
adolescence. It was a time when my curiosity was at its peak
and I should have been dating girls. Margarita absorbed my
attention, saved me from having to deal with girls. She increased
my guilt about sex, recalling the principal's baby.
Sis was too close for comfort, making it hard for me to control
myself. This led to a timid platonic love.


I've rarely been able to connect love and sex since then,
but kept them in isolated fireproof vaults. I can look at Marg
and Mom sexually or lovingly, but usually not both at once.


Self-satisfaction was more a release from anxiety than a
source of pleasure. It wasn't really fun without a companion,
and fantasies couldn't compete with having a loving girl in
my arms. My failure to make my erotic dream girls come to
life made me feel yet more sexually inferior. I'd try to feel
loved and accepted, as if on Mother's breast. It was a way of
self-indulgence, like eating a quart of ice cream at one sitting.
I made an Oriental shrine out of my phallus so I wouldn't
have to come face to face with girls.


SESSION 227, FRIDAY


<i>Disillusioned</i>


I'VE BEEN THINKING that suffering is a sort of castration.
By being masochistic one cuts one's throat. Even if
pain brings attention, one still loses as a result of it!


I used to let myself go along in my dream world as if

[p. <i>230</i>]

I wanted to get from you a magic formula for effortless
living. I wished to help you enjoy life by improving your daydreams.
I was working for you while you were secretly working
on me, and I didn't know it. Only after I began to change
and emerge from my shell did I begin to see how off the beam
I had been.


All my emotions were "ass-backward." I was panicked by
the thought that I might burst out laughing at Pop's funeral.
I was embarrassed to hear my laughter at a movie when
others wept. God pity the girls who used to go with me before
I began to wise up. They must have thought me a wild, odd
character.


Sad sack that I was, I told you that being "Christ" was only
a daydream, because I found you hard to convince. But at the
time I really believed such delusions, finding proof in the
plaudits of the crowd. I was God, Christ, St. Peter, Hitler,
Mussolini, Tarzan, all rolled into one. I wanted the world to
be aware of my power.


Well, I'm glad that the old pressure is gone. My safety
valve has blown. Now I can relax. As you once said, "I'm
naked with my defenses down," but I'm glad of it. At last I'm
facing myself, and it ain't so bad as I thought.


As a psychotherapist you had to feel you were helping me
instead of me helping you. So I let you believe it. I enriched
your life with entertaining daydreams. Through my "creativity"
I wanted to be superior to others so I could impress you
with better "stories" than those of your other patients and
open a whole new world for you.

[p. <i>231</i>]

Now it's disillusioning to find that <i>you</i> were helping <i>me</i>,
and how far gone I was in the past.


I'm mad at you. You seduced me into going further than I
intended! I came just to straighten out a few little odds and
ends, just piddle around, find out about my college work,
chance of a job, and the like. But you went deeper. I just
wanted a panacea, a few magic words that would change me
into a new person overnight. You doublecrossed me by not
only removing my problems but also taking away the fun of
daydreaming.


Fantasies now seem silly, and I no longer see any advantage
in being a famous person, even a Jesus Christ. I believed I
was normal when you treated me with respect, didn't toss me
out of your office.


I thought I was pulling the wool over your eyes when you
treated me as a human being, an equal. You seemed quite a
jerk to laugh at my feeble jokes and puns. You were friendly,
smiled rather than scowled at me, as if you enjoyed seeing
me. No one else considered me important. I was dirt under
their feet.


I was able to lean on you till I grew strong enough to defend
myself rather than kill myself in a hopeless world.


I figured that a person is abnormal if rejected by others.
Since you accepted me I was okay, and I aimed to become what
you seemed to think I was. In that way I struggled to get well.
I didn't want to get well for myself, for there seemed no
advantage to it. I did it to please rather than disappoint you,
since you enjoyed seeing progress. Otherwise I'd still be as
bad off as I was in the beginning—or worse!

[p. <i>232</i>]

SESSION 228, MONDAY


"<i>Good-by, Dream World</i>"


PENNY SAID MONTHS ago that I had a "wall around
me, but there must be something behind it." She said it was
amazing how I had completely detached myself from the
world, letting no one know my thoughts. She claimed I appeared
like five different people, and that she could hardly
understand me at first. Perhaps it's this air of mystery that
attracted her.


If something was easy to get I never wanted it, for I'd lose
my self-respect and feeling of strength. I wanted to give up
Penny many times; I preferred to fight, struggle, and suffer
for someone who <i>didn't</i> want me! I figured that if something
is hard to get, it's worth while. To make something desirable
you simply make it hard to achieve. I made myself hard to
get for a while, driving Penny into Bert's arms, for I made her
too insecure and hungry for love.


But I'm not going to be a fool and let her go. Since we like
each other a lot, we might as well see how it works out. She's
smart, pretty, warm, and affectionate—not at all prudish.


Mom was always hard to get close to, so I knocked my head
against the wall to win her approval. When she finally began
to compliment me on my progress I grew belligerent toward
her to keep her at a distance. I figured Mom was rough to us
after Pop had been rough to her in the bedroom. I vowed
many a time during those early years never to "hurt" a girl
when I became a man. I was planning to avoid even sex unless
she insisted on it.


Observing my folks in bed must have initially conditioned
my feelings toward the opposite sex. I became mild and innocuous

[p. <i>233</i>]

Now that I find companionship so appetizing, incestuous
plans and fantasies seem ridiculous. If I had to choose
between Mother, Marg, and Penny, even if I were not a Lavero,
there'd be no question about my selection unless I was
drunk. Penny is out of this world, and as soon as I get my
degree and land a job I'm leaving the old homestead but
quick.


Periodically I can visit the family to see how things are,
so they won't feel I'm neglecting them. But I want to start a
new life in a new environment—the sooner the better. I can't
stand being loused up any more now that I see over the
horizon, where the fields are green; it looks good.


Good-by, dream world—good-by, crud. I can take fewer
sessions a week now and soon I'll be ready to quit analysis.
I still have things to straighten out, as you well know. I'm
thinking of teaching after I graduate, a field I never dared
consider before. Perhaps I'll do best to apply to the Department
of Education for San Diego County, where a bilingual
knowledge of English and Spanish is particularly helpful
with the many Mexican children in the school system.


Well, Doc, you've helped me tear down my wall of apathy,
and let in the sunlight. Penny no longer finds me so mild. In
fact I frighten her at times, taking control of a situation when
she least expects it. But, between you and me, I believe she
loves it, and leans on me all the more. She likes her men to be
forceful and keep her in her place.


To hell with dreaming; Penny's the real thing! The walls of
my jail of fantasy have crumbled, and nothing can stop me
now!

