<font size="4"><b>Applied Tension</b></font>

<b>DESCRIPTION OF THE STRATEGY</b>


Specific phobias are a common experience in people,
and yet relatively few present with these concerns for

[p. <i>28</i>]

People are quite adept at building mostly functional
lives around avoidance and escape of feared circumstances,
and they are typically quite successful
with specific phobias, since the accompanying distress
is commonly limited to a single or just a few
variations of the specific target stimulus. This is quite
different from most other anxiety disorders, which
typically, when left untreated, will begin to permeate
the sufferer's life, regardless of level of impact (e.g.,
intrapersonal, interpersonal, professional). Indeed,
when individuals suffering with specific phobia present
themselves for psychological treatment, it is not
uncommon to hear that some life circumstances have
changed (e.g., a job promotion that requires increased
flying or driving, exacerbation of health problems
produced by avoidance of medical care). Indeed, such
change is forcing them to more directly face their
fears, either by sheer necessity or by a desire to not let
the fears negatively affect their personal or professional
lives. In short, avoidance and escape typically
used to cope with the offending stimulus have either
directly or artificially been removed from the person's
response repertoire.


It has been long recognized and accepted that the
common ingredient of many, if not most, behavioral
treatments that affect anxiety is exposure to anxiety-provoking
stimuli. In fact, through repeated, prolonged
exposure to the offending stimulus, anxiety,
fear, and other intense negative emotions are reduced.
Persons who are exposed to that which makes them
feel afraid, and when this is done repeatedly, experience
a reduction in their reactions of anxiety. Indeed,
through repetition of this general process, the anxiety
response can be extinguished. Specific phobias present
a unique challenge to this commonly accepted
treatment regimen in that some specific-phobia
patients exhibit the vasovagal syncope, or fainting,
response when faced with their feared stimuli. Such
fainting response prevents habituation and, therefore,
extinction of the fear response. This is especially common
among blood and injury phobias, where fainting
is often one of the main symptoms experienced.


When examined critically, it is clear that anxiety
produces four typical responses to distressing stimuli.
Many people are at least aware of the expression
"fight or flight," which represents two of the four
anxiety responses. In sequence of utilization, these
responses are freeze, flight, fight, and faint (the "four
F's"). Each response contains its own unique survival
value (i.e., the overarching purpose of anxiety is to
promote survival in the presence of genuine threat).
These responses are perhaps best exhibited in animals,
since people no longer have that many natural
predators; nonetheless, they appear as readily in
humans under the "right" circumstances.


The first response, freezing, is engaged in the animal
kingdom to avoid detection by predators, which
primarily see their prey through detection of movement
that distinguishes it from the background. Most
predators are not gifted with color vision and therefore
must rely on movement to discern their individual
prey. Some animals have adapted to this through
evolutionarily advancing antidetection strategies; for
example, zebras' stripes make it more difficult for
predators to distinguish one running zebra from
another in a herd, decreasing the likelihood that the
predator will accurately be able to pick out an individual
zebra to kill. Likewise, many other animals of
prey (e.g., gazelles and antelopes) are colored in such
a fashion as to blend well with grass and brush, making
visual detection difficult when they remain still.
This freezing response is also often exhibited in
people when they are startled, as it is related to a time
for orienting to the threat and evaluating what the
threat immediately means and requires. People, like
animals, are geared to conservation of energy for the
purpose of survival. In this sense, individuals will not
expend the energy unless they absolutely have to,

[p. <i>29</i>]

The second response, flight (i.e., fleeing or running
away from threat), is also based in simple survival
odds. Simply put, it is easier to increase odds of living
by not being hurt or injured. Specifically, running typically
represents a lower likelihood of serious injury
than fighting does, and therefore flight is preferred to
fight when it comes to survival value. Thus, after an
animal has been detected, it will flee or run to avoid
being killed. People react in the same primitive fashion,
as is expressed in the age-old adage "Run away
and fight another day."


The third response, fighting, is activated only once
the animal has been caught by the predator or the animal
simply cannot outrun the predator. Prey still have
the capacity to inflict serious injury by kicking or
spearing with horns or antlers, and such an injury
would potentially be a serious blow to a predator,
which depends upon its capacity to kill to survive. A
predator with a damaged eye or broken bone will not
survive in the wild long, because it cannot successfully
kill. The same is true in people, such that most recognize
that if it is impossible to run away from a threatening
person, the pure odds of surviving a physical
attack will be increased by fighting back. It is important
to acknowledge that fighting back may not lead to
optimal well-being, but it will promote sheer survival.
The fourth, and last response, is to faint, to dissociate,
or in any other fashion not be present emotionally
during the attack. Indeed, this is the last resort of
survival. Predators are typically driven by movement,
and once movement stops (i.e., the prey is dead or acts
dead), they stop attacking. Therefore, if the prey has
been detected, has tried to run away and failed, and
cannot sufficiently fight back, then the best chance it
has to survive is to, in essence, play dead. Once the
animal stops moving further, potentially life-threatening
damage can be avoided. Grizzly bear attack survivors
often credit their survival to passing out, stopping
movements, or simply playing dead. Grizzly bears,
like other predators, will often bury their kill to let it
season before consuming it. Many grizzly attack survivors
indeed report that they were partially buried
before the bear left. In a more (unfortunately) common
experience, many people respond to the trauma
of rape by "catatonic immobility," which is a response
akin to not being present in spirit after a realization
that all other measures of resistance have failed.


Such catatonic immobility response is related to
the vasovagal syncope response in that blood pressure
drops, the body goes limp, and the person "checks
out," or is present in body only. The vasovagal syncope
response is a much stronger drop in blood pressure
than that experienced during tonic immobility,
and has the common and direct side effect of blood
draining away from the head, and fainting frequently
results. Unfortunately, this is the primary response
mode of a subset of specific phobia patients, primarily
those who are blood phobic or phobic to medical/dental/injection
procedures. For people who experience
this vasovagal syncope response, they respond to their
feared stimuli with the unique, diphasic pattern of
responding that exemplifies the vasovagal syncope
response. While most fears are associated with
increased arousal upon exposure to the feared stimuli,
these specific phobias are sometimes instead related
to this diphasic response mode. First, as with most
fears, heart rate and blood pressure increase for a few
seconds or minutes. Then, however, there is a sudden
decrease in arousal, often accompanied by fainting.
The term <i>vasovagal syncope</i> is often used to describe
this phenomenon, where heart rate and blood pressure
suddenly fall and muscle tone is reduced, presumably
due to the vagus nerve, a parasympathetic nerve that
innervates the chest and upper abdomen. This phenomenon
is also a suspected part of a behavioral
descriptor of the German term <i>Platzschwindel</i>, referring
to the sensation of dizziness in public places, or
more simply <i>Platzangst</i>, which describes fear of open
spaces. Such dizziness can often be experienced as a
sense of unreality or as if the earth is moving or the
body is moving in space. Many specific phobia
patients who exhibit the fainting response also often
endorse that they feel easily dizzy, shaky, unsteady,
and unreal. These symptoms appear to be precursors
to the full fainting response.


This fainting response presents a problem in the
usual treatment of anxiety. Many versions of anxiety
are treated in part with various relaxation procedures
aimed at reducing the tension, pressure, and rapid
breathing associated with high arousal and high blood
pressure commonly experienced in the presence of
threat. Indeed, the typical treatment approach for anxiety
incorporates some exercises that specifically aim
to reduce blood pressure. This is, in fact, contraindicated
for a person who already exhibits a low blood
pressure problem, like those with the vasovagal
tendency. Yet exposure to the feared stimulus is

[p. <i>30</i>]

The primary aim of applied tension is to increase
blood pressure and cerebral blood flow. This coping
skill is designed to have two parts. The first part consists
of teaching the patient how to tense the gross
body muscles, and the second is to learn how to identify
the earliest signs of dropping blood pressure.
Besides reducing risk of fainting, this technique also
has the added benefit of decreasing the amount of
time that the patient is unconscious should they actually
pass out.


The patient is first provided a rationale for the
treatment program, after which the skills are demonstrated,
and then the patient practices them. The
patient practices initially while seated in a comfortable
armchair. In the seated position, the patient tenses
arm muscles, the torso, and then the legs. This tension
is held for approximately 10 to 15 seconds, which typically
is long enough for the patient to begin feeling
the temperature rise in his or her face. This rising
facial temperature and flushing is the sign that cerebral
blood pressure is increasing, much like what
occurs to a fighter jet plane pilot who is wearing an
antigravity suit while performing high-G turns (i.e.,
the G-suit prevents blackout in pilots by squeezing the
legs, arms, and torso of the pilot with increasing G's,
to force the blood back into the head). Patients then
relax until their bodies feel normal again, which
usually occurs within 20 to 30 seconds. They then
practice bringing the warmth back to their faces
repeatedly, using the same applied-tension technique.
The same series of exercises of tensing and relaxing,
to produce an increase in blood pressure on demand,
is then practiced five times a day. This practice facilitates
comfort with increasing blood flow to the head
on cue. Once the patient can demonstrate this skill
readily and on demand, the typical approach to anxiety
treatment begins, namely, exposure. For example,
the patient is shown incrementally more and more
challenging pictures of injury or bloody scenarios.
When patients notice signs of dropping blood pressure
(e.g., feeling faint, dizzy, clammy, nauseous, damp),
they then apply the tension skill set to prevent
sufficient blood from leaving the head, to ultimately
prevent fainting. This is initially done to pictures
alone, and then, provided the actual stimulus is possible
to experience in vivo, live exercises are continued.
Often, this leads up to some actual medical procedure,
or the like, that the patient had been avoiding.


<b>RESEARCH BASIS</b>


Research shows that applied tension is superior to the
standard exposure treatment (without tension) used for
most other anxiety disorders. Lars-Gran st and his
Swedish colleagues found, for example, that within
five sessions, 90% of patients treated with applied
tension met the compelling clinically significant improvement
standard, whereas only 40% treated in the conventional
exposure fashion (without tension) met
clinical improvement. This adds support to the central
role that the vasovagal syncope response plays for
those specific-phobia patients who experience fainting
as a primary symptom. Just as fighter jet plane pilots
will inevitably black out (i.e., faint) with increasing
G's without their G-suits squeezing blood into their
heads, so will vasovagal fainting occur without some
pressure to keep blood from draining from the head.
This can readily be accomplished through applied
tension, but it may also be facilitated by keeping the
head lower than the heart or assuming a prone position.


<b>RELEVANT TARGET
POPULATIONS AND EXCEPTIONS</b>


Most patients who demonstrate the vasovagal fainting
response have today been treated effectively with the
applied tension technique. The technique was specifically
designed to assist this population, and it is of no
real use for other populations that do not exhibit this
specific fainting response. For people who simply fear
fainting but have never actually fainted, it may be an
advantage to teach patients the skill set before starting
formal exposure treatment, to assist those who may
indeed be prone to such a response when avoidance
and escape are reduced and eventually stopped. For
example, a strong family history of fainting may be an
indicator that the person could be prone to such a
response. As with any other biophysiological intervention,
clearance should be obtained from the
patient's medical doctor to ensure that there are no
organic contraindications for applied tension.

[p. <i>31</i>]

<b>COMPLICATIONS</b>


The most commonly experienced complication with
applied tension is headaches. Should this occur in the
patient, it may be a sign that the patient is applying too
much tension, thus forcing too much blood into the
head, producing a tension headache. This phenomenon
is easily combated by having the patient tense
and tighten muscles to approximately only 6 or 7 on a
10-point tension scale. Indeed, if the patient is producing
tension of 9 or 10 on a 10-point scale, this may
be a sure recipe for tension headaches. In describing
the rationale and demonstrating the skill set to the
patient, the amount of pressure applied should also be
described.


<b>CASE ILLUSTRATION</b>


"Joe" was a 36-year-old, divorced, unemployed man,
who had been avoiding getting injections or blood
draws for many years, primarily because he would on
most occasions faint during such procedures. If he
remained prone during a blood draw, he would sometimes
manage to remain conscious, but his aversive
experience with such procedures left him extensively
avoiding them. Recently, Joe was referred by his psychiatrist
because he is also bipolar and is noncompliant
with blood-level checks. During a recent visit with
his doctor, it became clear that Joe had experienced
some adverse physiological effects due to not maintaining
a close check on his blood levels of lithium.
Joe had subsequently reported his reluctance for getting
the mandatory blood work as being due to the
experience of fainting. His psychiatrist subsequently
referred him for treatment of this strong vasovagal
fainting response so that he could become compliant
with his medication-level checks. Because of the new
experience of a direct, negative effect on his health,
Joe was motivated to learn how to control his fainting
so that he could submit to regular blood work. Outside
of experiencing new health problems, he may never
have presented for treatment.


Treatment began with a rationale for how the fainting
response works and why relaxation (which he
had been erroneously advised to try before) would
not help. The general principles of pressure were
explained as they pertained to keeping fighter pilots
from blacking out during high-G maneuvers. This
response was then explained on a more personal level
for Joe, so that he gained insight into why he was
fainting. He reported that the principles made sense,
and he relayed that when he was prone, the fainting
occurred less frequently and he sometimes was able
to reduce dizziness by putting his head between his
knees. The procedure was then demonstrated, after
which Joe began to practice it. After practicing for a
week, his capacity to produce color and warmth in his
face on demand was assessed. When it was established
that he was able to do so, general conversations about
blood work procedures ensued. Joe used applied tension
when he felt himself getting dizzy and weak.
Treatment then progressed systematically through
looking at photographs of injections and blood draws,
and to the same on video. Once Joe could stand watching
these without feeling faint and needed to rely less
on the tension technique, the treatment stepped into the
in vivo phase, in which Joe and the therapist went to
look at the hospital lab. There, they observed other
patients getting blood drawn live. Once this became
more comfortable, Joe was able to observe, in very
close quarters, the therapist getting blood drawn.
Following this, Joe was able to get his own blood
drawn on a regular basis. Although he did not find the
experience of blood draws enjoyable, he was able to
submit to regular blood-level checks. He was also able
to receive updated vaccinations. At 3-years posttreatment,
Joe is reportedly still regularly obtaining blood
levels, and he has not suffered any further ill effects of
the medications prescribed for bipolar disorder.


<i>Johan Rosqvist</i>


<i><b>See also:</b> Anxiety Management (Vol. II); Applied Relaxation
and Tension (Vol. I); Breathing Retraining (Vol. I)</i>


<b>Suggested Readings</b>


Antony, M. M., &amp; Barlow, D. H. (2002). Specific phobias. In
D. H. Barlow (Ed.), <i>Anxiety and its disorders: The nature
and treatment of anxiety and panic</i> (2nd ed., pp. 380-417).
New York: Guilford Press.


Antony, M. M., Craske, M. G., &amp; Barlow, D. H. (1995).
<i>Mastery of your specific phobia</i>. Albany, NY: Graywind.


Graham, D. T., Kabler, J. D., &amp; Lunsfors, L. (1961). Vasovagal
fainting: A diphasic response. <i>Psychosomatic Medicine,
23</i>, 493-507.


Kleinknecht, R. A. (1994). Acquisition of blood, injury, and
needle fears and phobias. <i>Behaviour Research and
Therapy, 32</i>(8), 817-823.


Kozak, M. J., &amp; Montgomery, G. K. (1981). Multimodal behavioral
treatment of recurrent injury-scene-elicited fainting
(vasodepressor syncope). <i>Behavioral Psychotherapy, 9</i>,
316-321.

[p. <i>32</i>]

Marks, I. M. (1987). <i>Fears, phobias, and rituals: Panic,
anxiety, and their disorders</i>. Oxford, UK: Oxford
University Press.


McLean, P. D., &amp; Woody, S. R. (2001). <i>Anxiety disorders in
adults: An evidence-based approach to psychological treatment</i>.
Oxford, UK: Oxford University Press.


st, L. G. (1992). Blood and injection phobia: Background
and cognitive, physiological, and behavioral variables.
<i>Journal of Abnormal Psychology, 101</i>(1), 68-74.


st, L. G., &amp; Sterner, U. (1987). Applied tension: A specific
behavioral method for treatment of blood phobia. <i>Behaviour
Research and Therapy, 25</i>(1), 25-29.


st, L. G., Sterner, U., &amp; Lindahl, I. L. (1984). Physiological
responses in blood phobics. <i>Behaviour Research and
Therapy, 22</i>, 109-177.

