TRANSCRIPT OF AUDIO FILE:
______________________________________________________________________________
BEGIN TRANSCRIPT:
THERAPIST: Before I forget, which I forgot last time, I think I do need to charge you for the missed appointment around the camping trip. 
CLIENT: Okay. That's fine. I can't do it today. 
THERAPIST: Okay.
CLIENT: But I could do it next week. 
THERAPIST: Okay.
CLIENT: (laugh)
THERAPIST: I'll make a note somewhere. 
CLIENT: Okay. 
THERAPIST: What else did I remember?
CLIENT: It's the 90 late fee?
THERAPIST: Right. 
CLIENT: Okay.
THERAPIST: And I also will try to remember to get you a bill, which I have not done. (pause) I will try to do that in the file (ph? [0:00:36.4).
CLIENT: Okay. 
(pause)
CLIENT: (deep breaths) So I had (exhale) it's—so I had a difficult week I will say, due to work. 
THERAPIST: Yeah.
(pause)
CLIENT: And a lot of what it is, is getting handed an impossible project, and said, "Get it done." (pause). 
So Chet, on Tuesday last week, was like, was sort of regrowing (ph? [0:01:18.4)—we have our horrible review meetings where we review what we've done. And he's saying, "I want you to make loanable packages for all the sandbox items." Which are these like laptops. It's a technology [inaudible [00:01:30].1].
THERAPIST: Right. What packages?
CLIENT: Loanable packages.
THERAPIST: Loanable packages. 
CLIENT: Which he—and I asked like, "What does that mean?" He's like, "Oh, you know, like everything that comes with it, just all the stuff." I'm like, "Okay. Like, do you want me to write a list?" And he's like, "No, make a loanable package." 
[0:01:49.2]
But I can't do part in the cataloging system that lets you charge and discharge items, and I'm like, "Okay. I'll make a list of what"—like when you get a knife (ph? [0:02:02.5), how do you get a charger and a this and a that. And choose bags for them if necessary and work with this other coworker of mine who is getting handed off all this crap. And who is dumb as a [inaudible [00:02:18].3) She's going, "Oh. Okay." 
And I called my coworker, Christy, and she's like, "I'm going on vacation until the 17th—until the 16th." And I say, "Alright, so clearly this is going to be delayed." And we figure it out. I was like, "How about we talk on the Tuesday after you come back," and we talked a little bit about it. 
[0:02:42.1]
And I went back to Chet and, you know, said, "She's on vacation, so we need to push this back." And he's like, "No, it needs to be done by the 12th. (pause) That was his response. And I said that like, "I'm really uncomfortable with that. It's really rushed. I'm making these decisions for her without her input. I don't really know what you want me to do." You know...
THERAPIST: Like there are parts of the project that she would very naturally own?
CLIENT: Yeah. Yeah. Like what he's asking for is something new, and since it's going to be her responsibility...
THERAPIST: Oh.
[0:03:25.1]
CLIENT: Yeah, so these actually weren't my responsibility either. They were kind of vaguely a bunch of people's responsibility. And so I'm supposed to gather everything up. Hand them off to her, and also I'm making decisions about, I think, how they're going to be loaned out (pause) without her input. 
I don't know the physical space where they're going. I don't know how much space they have. I don't know anything. 
And it took me—and I guess—so I didn't know who to bill initially. I was like, "Is there a preferred vendor?" You know, all this stuff, and Chet said, "It doesn't matter. It's just—select things," which is frustrating. Because, I mean, it's like, "Go buy a computer case." "Okay." You know? There are hundreds.
THERAPIST: Gotcha. 
[0:04:27.3]
CLIENT: And usually they have like their preferred vendors for everything. 
THERAPIST: I see.
CLIENT: Or there are guidelines, or, like, you have to spec out three.
THERAPIST: I see.
CLIENT: But I can't get that information from anyone. It's just like—I've gotten to who is the person who is going to be handling the money part. But she can't get the information if we need like to use any special vendor or anything. So we're both going, "Okay I guess we'll just, maybe order some things?" (pause) 
And so on Thursday I went looking for all the equipment to check it and discovered that half the equipment was not where it was supposed to be. I had been told it was in this one office. And I go over there, and they're like, "Oh No. We don't have it." And so I went looking, and it was locked in the cabinet, to which no one had a key except one person who's on vacation. (pause) Not my coworker, Christy, another person on vacation. 
[0:05:36.5]
And he had said he was putting some of this stuff in his desk, but some of it wasn't. And I'm just like "Great. I can't even look at the things until Monday." And I wasn't sure if he was going to be in today. It's like—you know—maybe—because people work flexible schedules. So I was like, "Maybe he's going to work on Tuesday or something." I have no idea. And no one has a key.
So (pause) I'm like [inaudible [00:06:14].4] Thursday before like class. And I was just like, "Okay, I guess I just have to wait." And so Friday I was alternating between being really mad and really stressed about it. (pause) Pretty much—I think that's pretty much what I did all day was be at my desk and stress or mad or both. 
[0:06:39.5]
(pause)
(exhale) I mean—I don't—I really hate making decisions for other people, for how they're going to do their work. 
There's supposed to be some kind of change in how this program works in general. But no one will tell me. And as far as I can tell there's no reason for this all to be done by the 12th. Because I'm not supposed to purchase the bags or equipment or whatever, or even create like—put everything in a little tidy package. I think I'm supposed to hand over a list of conceptually what would be happening. And the equipment doesn't start loaning, getting borrowed again, until August, and then no date in August. 
So (pause) I'm also really pissed that I'm going through all this agita that really would have been a lot easier if I'd just be able to put it all off until the 18th. Like after Christy got back and I could talk to her about it 
[0:07:55.6]
THERAPIST: Right. 
CLIENT: (pause) It's also just like—it's so frustrating and it makes me angry when I ask Chet what I feel like are reasonable questions, and he just doesn't answer. (pause) 
Like when I was asking him, "What's a loanable package?" For a while he just kept on repeating, "You know, a package of the things that you're going to loan." I was like, "That's not helpful. That's just the word."
THERAPIST: Right
[0:08:31.4]
CLIENT: You know, and—(pause) you couldn't get any details except for to have that by the 12th.
THERAPIST: Right.
CLIENT: And also he's kind of like, "Don't worry about it. It can always be changed." I was like, "If it can always be changed, why am I due by the 12th?"
THERAPIST: Right. 
CLIENT: Like—either I'm doing pointless busywork so someone can check off that they did something before they go on vacation, or I'm actually doing something. But I'm not involving the people who are supposed to be involved. And all those are crappy. 
[0:09:11.3]
(pause)
And it's also one of those things where I'm sort of like (pause) you know, "Chet, why don't you do this?" Like—all this equipment has never actually been my responsibility. I've never been involved with loaning it. Other people have. And it actually was part of a different department. And like (pause) if it's such an easy, simple project then maybe you could do it. I think it's sort of like, he doesn't want to do it. 
THERAPIST: Huh
[0:09:55.3]
CLIENT: Which, yeah, I get he can do, but (pause) I also feel like if he thinks all the answers are so self-evident, then maybe he should just do it?
THERAPIST: Mm-hm.
CLIENT: He's talking to my friend Karl and I'm just over here on the side. (pause) And so yeah, I spent more time sort of poking around at things. I finally managed to get all the equipment today after a whole bunch of last-minute, like emergency people needed equipment that wouldn't be an emergency if they'd just ask for it in advance. Which is frustrating also. (pause)
[0:10:49.9]
The only thing that I really always hate is when someone's like, "Oh we urgently need this on an emergency basis." Is that (exhale/pause) it feels like they're somehow blaming me for not constantly sitting at my desk looking at e-mail, being on the phone and instantly waiting to respond to like everything. 
Like, I got an e-mail, and I was away from my desk. And I sit back down, and I get a phone call saying, "Do you—have you had a chance to read my e-mail?" And I'm like, (loudly) "I just sat down. No. I was working on something."
THERAPIST: (chuckles)
CLIENT: And then I was getting, from the IT department one—something that they needed. And another coworker was like, "Oh no, actually she wants these other things." And I'm like—which were completely different. One was a projector. One was a 40-inch touch-screen monitor and also a portable projection screen, which again is like, "Oh these are the same".
[0:12:00.5]
THERAPIST: Right. 
CLIENT: I only had the projector. I just handed it over and was kind of like, "I don't want to do this anymore." (pause) And of course you know, Chet had said that he felt like I wasn't doing enough work for the media department. 
He was worried when he [inaudible [00:12:27].0] my performance review and that this one week I was like, "I did these things." And he was like, "Well really, those probably only took an hour. I'm being generous." I'm like, "Well, okay, but..." (pause) like (pause) 
I don't know, it just felt like a really passive-aggressive way of saying, "I want you to concentrate on this." But instead of saying, "I want you to do these things sooner," it's like, "I feel like maybe you haven't been doing work."
THERAPIST: I see. 
[0:13:07.4]
(pause)
THERAPIST: Is it a way of (pause) not really taking responsibility for asking you for something, though that's what he wanted?
CLIENT: Yeah. He didn't ask for it. He didn't have any deadlines on—like all the media stuff I had was work on it as you have time. So I'm like, "Alright, working on it as I have time," just doing some other things that seemed higher priority at the time. 
[0:13:41.9]
THERAPIST: I think it's the sort of thing, what I think is what's going on, but I could be wrong, like (pause) I (pause) think there's presenting some (pause) very infuriating and helplessness feeling inducing going on from work. (pause) 
In a sort of like, "See, Ethan, can you see how this is driving me crazy? Then they did this. Then he said do what's in your head. Then he said, 'Pick the right colors, but I'm turning out the lights so you won't be able to see anything.' Then he..."—you know –it's like there's a show going on with the tell, but the show isn't like (growling) it's like, "Can you see this? Look how totally off the wall and ridiculous this is." 
[0:15:17.4]
Which I guess I  (ph?[0:15:21.6) this is where I'm being more speculative. But like part of it may be so that like—I get incensed on your behalf because I think it makes you anxious to feel as incensed as I suspect that this is making you. 
CLIENT: I think it's more that I feel like...
THERAPIST: Okay.
CLIENT: There has to be a reason. 
THERAPIST: Oh.
[0:15:57.9]
CLIENT: Like I was really upset and stressed all day Friday. And, I don't know, I felt like I need to explain why. 
THERAPIST: Why you were so—when you say there has to be a reason, you mean that you were so upset? As opposed to why he's acting, treating you so unfairly?
CLIENT: The reason why I was upset. 
THERAPIST: Okay. And it—do they—does it feel like—the way you present it seems to me to indicate a number of reasons why you would feel that way. I mean it sounds so clear. I guess I'm not sure at what point you're feeling there's not a reason, if you know what I mean. In other words...
[0:16:59.2]
CLIENT: Yeah. I mean it's easier to talk about why—I don't know, part of it is like—I mean it's easier to talk about why, what was the thing that was causing it than how I was feeling, am feeling.
(pause) I guess also I feel like so—the way that I felt Friday just was, like I couldn't concentrate on anything. My stomach hurt. I was just, I don't know, like really angry, and then really sad, and really just like nervous just all day, and somewhat during the weekend 
And it feels like, well (pause) (exhale) like the cause of all that is I should have, I guess, be well grounded or something like—(sigh) It's like I feel like...
THERAPIST: Yeah
CLIENT: ...like I'm stressed and upset out of proportion
[0:18:26.1]
THERAPIST: You feel like you're overreacting. 
CLIENT: Yeah. (pause) Yeah. I feel like that all this reaction is an overreaction. 
THERAPIST: Uh-huh.
CLIENT: Like even as I say "This was ridiculous," I'm still like, "Well maybe, someone who's more organized would be able to just pull that off quickly," or something. 
THERAPIST: So what you kind of want from me in that sense is to (pause) hopefully explain why it makes sense that you're so upset and reassure you that you're not overacting so that there's some reasonable explanation for why this has gotten you worked up in the way that it has. 
Or to—which, I guess, would either mean explaining how awful the situation is, more so than you think, or what's going on on your side that you're so upset about it in this way. But something to kind of (pause) make it make more sense like that?
[0:19:57.8]
CLIENT: Yeah. 
THERAPIST: Make your reactions make more sense?
CLIENT: Yes. (pause) And also somewhat lessen the—like—my worry is that I'm overreacting and sort of along with it that like (pause) I don't know, someone who is better at my job wouldn't be as stressed and thrown by it. (pause) 
But part of it really is things like—I don't know, people get given stupid, weird things to do all the time. And that's part of it. I'm like, "Well, it's not that picking computer bags is exactly difficult." It's that everything is, you know, so vague, and I don't know how I'm picking them or why. 
So basically what I ended up doing was saying, "Okay, I'll pick the things that I would want. I'm going to pick the bag that I like," which was kind of okay. So I listed a bunch of things. But then I went into completely second guessing it and like, "Well, are these professional enough? Are these really what people want?" You know (pause) 
[0:21:45.4]
What I would want out of a computer bag might be completely different from what most staff want out of a computer bag. Or like I'm pushing everyone toward sleeves because I think they're a lot easier to deal with. And previously we're had these really, I feel, yucky, clunky messenger bag—padded messenger bag-type things. 
THERAPIST: Mm-hmm. 
[0:22:15.2]
(pause)
CLIENT: But, I have no sense if (pause) I'm like," I think these are better for me." You know, like, "I don't know for everyone else." 
And I feel like I have no way of knowing or asking or finding out what is this—what is the purpose. What are we doing, and therefore what kind of things do we need? Like there's supposed to be a little direction sheet, and I'm like, "Well, I guess the directions really would vary depending on what you're doing with this." I have no way to find out what you're doing with this. (pause)
[0:23:06.9]
So I don't know. I feel like I'm sort of making up whole-cloth this idealized average staff member that is going to be using this computer. And I guess I'm basing it kind of on me because, mmm. But then I start feeling like, "Oh, what if I'm completely a-typical, and everything I'm choosing is wrong?" (pause)
Which actually also ties into my sort of raging frustration with my computer class, which is I really hate it because it's things I learned 10 years ago.
THERAPIST: Uh-huh.
CLIENT: And I can't test out of it. And it's really slow and frustrating to me. And everyone I've talked to, they're kind of like, "You should be able to test out of that, you're in IT." "Yeah, we're doing this really annoying thing." And they're like, "I didn't know how to do that." 
I thought that I was bitching about making simple html pages because it's stupid. And then two of my coworkers were like, "There's this really great class. You might be interested in it. You learn how to make like a five-page webpage," and I'm going " Huh. Okay. I guess that was useful for you."
[0:24:43.4]
THERAPIST: Mm-hmm
CLIENT: And I should assume that even though I think you're tech savvy that you are, whatever, me. 
THERAPIST: Oh I see. So it's just your gauge seems wrong like that?
CLIENT: Yeah. 
THERAPIST: As with both your emotional reaction and your (pause) choice of accessories?
[0:25:15.0]
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: Like your gauge providing those things may just be way off.
(pause)
I guess a lot—you've pointed out this is reasonable. Like how you've felt in response to what happened or (pause) your heuristic virtue thing—items for the loan packages 
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: Or your definition of tech—elements of your definition of tech-savviness, which include building simple websites. 
[0:26:25.5]
CLIENT: Yeah, I mean, part of like I know I tend to drastically underestimate my tech-savviness from knowing people who like, you know, create software (laugh) and run tech companies.
THERAPIST: Right. They've told you you underestimate your tech-savviness or
CLIENT: No.
THERAPIST: ...you mean you underestimate yourself too. 
CLIENT: No, I think of myself against them, which is completely crazy. But like in 1996 when [inaudible [00:27:01].0] first went in stuff) it was friends of mine that were helping me. And some of those friends have gone on to do a lot of things. And, I don't know, like in my head it doesn't seem like anything. I'm just going "Oh, your [inaudible [00:27:24].0] you to do it. And you just kind of do it and whatever." And so many people I know—it's not that I necessarily know how do—how to write in Perl ...
[0:27:35.6]
THERAPIST: Mm-hmm
CLIENT: But I know enough about it to talk about it and to know that I can't do it.
THERAPIST: Mm-hmm
CLIENT: I also know enough that I could totally find a friend to help me if I had to write Perl in two weeks. And so, I just kind of toddle on assuming that yeah, you know, to a certain extent, you can just learn stuff. (pause) And like my sense of like where we're starting from is always confusing like... (pause)
[0:28:13.6]
I don't know it—when people ask me computer questions, I often sort of—I try to figure out where we're starting from. And sometimes their question is like, "I want to—what's the best photo printer?" I'm like, "Okay." But like they're sort of—what they really want to know is—they don't actually understand how their computer works or their photo-editing program works. 
THERAPIST: I see.
CLIENT: And so it's kind of like, "Well maybe should back up and talk about—what are you doing?"
THERAPIST: You feel like in a way what they need to be asking is, "How can I print my pictures out so they look good?" And they think the right question to ask is, "What is the best photo printer?" But it could be that they need to learn how to use Photoshop. Because that's really what's going to make their pictures look good. 
[0:29:01.5]
CLIENT: Right, or like the reason why the pictures aren't printing out well is not because of their printer, but it's because they don't know how to use—like they don't know how to use their camera correctly or they don't know how to like resize images. 
THERAPIST: I see. 
CLIENT: A coworker came to me and complained the images she was printing were really weird and blurry. And I was like, "That is weird." And I looked at it and like, "Well, it's because you're enlarging a jpg 400 percent. So that's not going to work." And she's like "Oh." And I was like, "Yeah. That's not a printer problem." 
And so we kind of ended up going back and like, "Okay, how about this part? Okay, you have no idea how that file was created. Okay can we go back this far?" (pause)
[0:29:54.8]
THERAPIST: I think it's a lot about getting on the same page with people.
CLIENT: Yeah. And I think I been like really solitary in my work and stuff for many years. So when I did—when I'm more around other coworkers, it's sort of like a constant little reminder. Like, "Oh right. (pause) Not everyone does that," or "This is where people are confused."
THERAPIST: Mm-hmm. 
CLIENT: But if I'm just doing my own thing, I just kind of assume that (pause) I don't know, to an extent I'm like, "Well not everybody is as tech savvy as me, but they're like close. They are like a level down." And then I'm like, "Oh. I'm wrong."(pause)
[0:30:51.9]
And so I just—I don't know. I mean the other thing is that I feel like—Chet has said to me that if I'm feeling upset or frustrated, he really can't fix that. I was like, "Okay. Umm." Karl has said that I should talk to someone about it. You know, like my manager or someone, or someone in HR. I'm like, "Well, you're my manager too, Karl. And you're useless." HR is getting dissolved as we speak and being reformed into a new unified HR. And the current head basically said "If it's not causing you to quit or blow up the department, I don't care."
[0:31:51.4]
And I'm like, "Well, you know, you are doing some major things, and I hear that." But (pause) I feel like out of people at work to say, "This is really frustrating, what do I do?" Like the next—the first two –managerial chains above me...
THERAPIST: Right.
CLIENT: ... don't care, and are actually sort of the problem. And then I'm like, "Well I could go out laterally to someone else." Except I have no idea like if they'll go directly back to Karl. If they're going to actually be helpful, or if they're mostly saving their own job so they don't give a shit. And not surprisingly, it's really hard to find people to say, "Look can I talk to you, or are you really too busy and don't give a shit right now?"
[0:32:57.0]
Which I would accept as an answer, but no one's going to say that. I understand why, but I'm just like, (sigh) it would be really nice if I could know that. (pause)
THERAPIST: I see. (pause) So you're quite alone with sort of all of your reactions to these things at work. And (pause) that's pretty humble, because I think I had a pretty wrong head idea. (pause)
I mean not like completely out to lunch, but wrong about what was going on. And (pause) I think (pause) 
[0:34:58.2]
Okay—so I guess it's probably a two-parter.
CLIENT: (sigh)
THERAPIST: The first part is I'm going to completely take the blame-the-victim approach here. But I want to say that, because I want to make it clear that there's not much I can know or say about whatever is going on with Karl or Chet (ph? [0:35:41.3). It certainly sounds from what you say like they're really unfair and critical and have little regard for what they're actually asking you to do. I mean for you, in the way they assign you tasks or have you do things or assert things to you. 
[0:36:15.8]
So all that sounds quite likely from how you've described this. But I don't really know that. But, I mean, I don't know what to say about that. That's where the blame-the-victim part comes in. 
CLIENT: (clears throat)
THERAPIST: If I (pause) I suspect some of what happens with this is (pause) you get—when you start to get anxious about what's going on between you and somebody else, or even with your own emotional life, you start to get kind of obsessional in a certain way. 
[0:37:17.4]
Like analytical, sort of taking things to pieces, (pause) and to sort of lose some kind of feel or sense of connection with what's going on in a way that you don't [inaudible [00:37:42].8] see. 
To make a very silly caricature of it, if somebody somehow stressed you out by handing you a poem and, "This is crucially important. And you have to have this analyzed by tomorrow and, you know, figure it all out." 
And then you're kind of like starting to freak out about it because you don't know where they're coming from or what they want. And you're like, "Do they want me to analyze it in terms of what genre of poetry it's from? Or its internal structure? Or the themes? Or do they want some kind of Marxist historical analysis of this? Or would they really care about the way that the language is used, at the level of words and phrases? I mean, I have no idea where they're coming from."
[0:38:34.6]
That's why it's sort of like taking it to pieces. You know (pause) which I know you would not really do if somebody gave you a poem to analyze. I'm sure you would do it. But I'm just trying to hopefully illustrate what I mean. 
And again, that's not by way of saying they're doing right by you or they're giving you anywhere near enough to go on. But I do suspect that something that goes on in your aside that you, when you get anxious, sort of cut things to pieces like this in your head in a way that makes it to where it's even scarier and where it's even more disconnected from whoever it is that you're dealing with or wherever it is emotionally that you're dealing with. 
And then you feel really overwhelmed, like really unsure how to evaluate what you've been asked to do, or your reaction to it or where somebody else is coming from. Things asked when you're feeling more comfortable, you're much more easily in touch with it and navigate the issue. 
(pause) [0:40:04.0]
I guess there's probably more to say about where that comes from (pause) even what to do about it—whatever. But how does that sound?
CLIENT: I think that sounds accurate. It does make sense. 
THERAPIST: Is that much different from how you've thought about it, or is it pretty much how you've thought about it, and it's more like I'm kind of catching on?
CLIENT: (exhale) Yeah. I mean, when I think about it, like if I'm doing it—if I'm sort of slicing and dicing, I feel like—in my head what I feel like I'm doing is trying to break it up into manageable chunks I can handle. 
THERAPIST: Yeah. 
CLIENT: But I may do things that sometimes sort of—I mean it definitely is distancing. It's like okay—instead it feels like—and I'm freaked out—it's like well (pause) because of these five things I have to do and now... 
THERAPIST: Right. Another place where I see the same thing a lot—I don't think this happens with you—I'm not mentioning this because it happens with you, it's just this may illustrative. Like if I'm talking with somebody about something that's kind of charged, and I say something that is a charged thing to say, that at least makes an assertion about a feeling that I imagine they're very uncomfortable with or...
[0:41:52.7]
CLIENT: mm-hmm
THERAPIST: ...a dynamic that I imagine they're uncomfortable with. And (pause) that has some kind of charge to it that way, and somebody asks, "Well, what do you mean by this," or "Why'd you say that?" or "How do you get to this conclusion?" 
Those are all pretty legitimate questions. But sometimes somebody might ask that more because they're anxious about the content of the statement, you know, than because they really need to know those things right then, if that makes sense.
CLIENT: Yeah. 
THERAPIST: And (pause) yes, as a reaction to a lot of anxiety. And I think it's mostly kind of, (pause) pretty large reservoirs in the way of anxiety about like (pause) how you're managed at work, or how you react to them emotionally. (pause)
[0:43:07.0]
I guess those are sort of—those seem to me two of the ways this kind of thing comes out most often for you, or two of the areas in which. 
CLIENT: Yeah. I mean, the other thing about taking my [inaudible [00:43:22].1] class –
THERAPIST: Yeah.
CLIENT: is it makes me think a lot about getting this degree. 
THERAPIST: Uh-huh.
CLIENT: And is another library job going to be better? Or is it just sort of –
THERAPIST: I see. 
CLIENT: You know, is the field crap, or have I been working at a crappy place all along that I have no sense?
THERAPIST: I see. Uh huh.
[0:43:54.9]
T: We have to stop for now. 
CLIENTHERAPIST: Okay.
THERPIST: But we'll talk more next week. 
END TRANSCRIPT
