TRANSCRIPT OF AUDIO FILE:
______________________________________________________________________________
BEGIN TRANSCRIPT:
Client 1923-018, Session number 7, February 18, 1971
PATIENT: You know I saw all these others real busy so I was coming (inaudible at 0:00:29.0) up with skiing this weekend. I understand. 
COUNSELOR: I've been up to Pine Mountain.
PATIENT: You have. Did you love it? 
COUNSELOR: I liked it quite a lot. It was a nice place. Did you stay in the lodge? 
PATIENT: No we had been up to Market Rich camp (inaudible at 0:00:49.3) on Saturday and we went back to Pine Mountain on Sunday on the way back. The place I love the most of all places is that they got that great big long beginner slope. Most places they have a real short beginner slope you make a couple of turns and there you are. I can't really figure out what I'm doing wrong until I make a couple of turns then I have to work on correcting them. I really enjoyed it. We go in groups. We stay other places besides the Y because Pine Mountain is too expensive. The only trouble is everybody wants to go back to Pine Mountain because they really loved it. All of the hotels and motels in the area of Pine Mountain will not rent, will not accommodate ski groups. If you are just doing your family, three or four people going up, you can stay there, but they won't take large groups of people. 
 
COUNSELOR: You can see why. I guess. 
PATIENT: I guess they get a little rambunctious or something. 
 
COUNSELOR: Yeah right. 
PATIENT: So we're having trouble finding someplace to stay. The nearest [0:02:00.7] place is about 30 miles away. Since you have to pay for the mileage on the bus, it gets expensive. We're going up to Shush Mountain this weekend. I'm anxious to see that. When I left Tuesday, we were talking about that I thought that I knew that I know these things without having to tell the world. I've been going to try to capitalize on that. Just to see if I can keep my mouth shut and still enjoy myself. Looking at it from the attitude that I don't have to tell everybody else. Just be able to enjoy it myself. I haven't been around anybody that yet. [0:02:54.4]
COUNSELOR: You haven't had a chance to practice it.
PATIENT: I haven't had an opportunity to practice it. The first time to practice would have been Tuesday night at home. This weekend I'll have a chance to practice. I hope. I don't know how I'm going to handle this weekend. I think Jesse and I are friends and that's about it. And which is fine. I'd like to keep him for a friend because he is a nice guy. I don't know what to do. I guess I'll just play it by ear. How to act, I don't want to act snobby. 
COUNSELOR: To Jesse.
PATIENT: I think if I just don't act like I always do, he's going to think I'm mad at him or something. Being snobby or nasty or something if I don't just walk up and talk to him. I don't know what I'm going to do. I don't want to chase him but at the same time I don't want him to think I'm mad at him. [0:03:56.1]
COUNSELOR: Uh huh.
PATIENT: I think any change from the way that I usually act I think he's going to think I'm mad or something. There is this other girl in the club that he has been working a lot with because she is on his committee. They've been spending a lot of time together. They enjoy each others company. She's a lot more bubbly than I am and everything. They seem to be getting along fairly well. I may not have anything to worry about. Just maybe, you know nothing I can do. I'm kind of looking forward to going skiing. I just hope it's not all melted. I talked to somebody yesterday and yesterday they said the temperature should go up to about 25. [0:05:00.0]
COUNSELOR: That sounds perfect.
PATIENT: Do you ski? 
COUNSELOR: A little.
PATIENT: I love to ski. My lips are chapping. I'm getting little flakes of skin every time I put my lips together. I can feel it. I'm very nervous. I have all these nervous habits. I bite my lips and wiggle my feet. I drive my mother crazy. I'm not [0:05:51.8] sure why I get so nervous. On the way over I was walking over here and I was trying to think of anything I really wanted to talk about. I couldn't think of anything. I saw the psychiatrist last night. Have you every scene the psychiatrist. It is a TV show. 
 
COUNSELOR: Yeah. I've never seen it. I've heard of it.
PATIENT: I've never seen it either, but I thought I would watch it just for a change. It was weird. Basically, that is what I was thinking about all the way over here. Strange things what people think of. My huge problems seem sort of inconsequential. I didn't even know anything about it was it taken from true facts or if these were seeminingly graduated cases or within the realm of possibilities. I would imagine they are.[0:06:58.7]
I guess I feel kind of lucky though because I didn't have problems like that with my parents or anything like that. Oh you didn't see it. 
COUNSELOR: No.
PATIENT: I'm talking to you like you have seen it. You didn't. It was about this girl that had been married and divorced and she had never been really happy. She had two kids. She loved the kids but she wanted to keep them and yet she hated them and wanted them to die. She would go on these ranting and ravings and go off on a tangent and stuff like that when she was talking with her psychiatrist. She was an actress that I've never seen just do straight just calm part. She's always doing something where she's going off on tangents, just daydreaming and getting hysterical. [0:08:00.3]
COUNSELOR: But Compared to her you felt really stable, and normal, and healthy and wholesome. 
PATIENT: Not that normal to be unique but still within the range of sanness and normal so to speak. 
I get on the scale in the morning and I found out I've lost 2 or 3 pounds. Wow. This is great. Then that morning I decide to go on a diet. I might as well just keep going you know. And that day in the afternoon I get so hungry or that evening or the next day I make it through the first day alright the next day I just get so hungry I just [0:09:00.3] 
can't stand it and I eat something. I've been eating all along. I can't get started on a diet. I've got a mental block against it. It's really weird. I have no way of knowing whether I'm just making up excuses for myself or whether it is really true or if it's a partial truth or what.
COUNSELOR: You just can't get over that first 2 day hump. 
PATIENT: Yeah, I just can't really get started on that. I really want to lose weight bad and I just hate being fat. I just hate it, and I cannot get started on losing weight. 
COUNSELOR: And what stops you is along around the time you start to get hungry. 
PATIENT: It's not that I give in to normal hunger it's just that I get abnormally hungry. I feel like I haven't eaten for days and I'm starving to death. [0:10:02.3]
COUNSELOR: It sounds like you're a little bit scared how little you've eaten or something. 
PATIENT: I don't eat that little it just eating different kinds of things like eating some green beans instead of a piece bread or eating carrots with lunch. 
COUNSELOR: You haven't been eating enough for it to be good for you to eat. Like that?
PATIENT: No, I can sit down and can finish a fairly decent sized meal one that should be completely satisfying to me. I recently have just in the process of being too busy to eat, shrunk my stomach. So my stomach is not that big. What happens is that the feeling that I have is the fact that whether I've eaten or not, it's not that I haven't eaten enough to be full its even after I eat something a couple of hours later, I'll just be ravenously hungry It's all in my mind that I'm hungry. [0:11:02.7]
COUNSELOR: It's like your starving to death. 
PATIENT: It's ridiculous. I'm not hungry. There's no way. I've sat down and eaten a fairly decent sized meal and I know that there couldn't possibly be any more room in my stomach now than when I finished eating and I felt full then. I've been in situations where I know that my stomach is not empty and I'm not hungry. I just have these cravings for food and I'm going out of my mind. 
COUNSELOR: Like you've got to have it. 
PATIENT: I'll fight it for a little while and then I'll give in. I'll unconsciously give in. I'll be sitting there watching television and will go in and get something and eat it and come back and sit down and finish watching television or doing whatever I'm doing. All of the sudden I realize "Oh, I shouldn't of done that, I'm on a diet." Which is probably my subconscious doing that on purpose? I don't know why. I think I told you a long time ago, subconsciously, consciously, I have figured out that subconsciously, I don't want to lose weight. I want to lose weight but I'm afraid that if I lose weight it's not going to make any difference. I have convinced myself that part of my problem is my weight socially. Especially where men are concerned. [0:12:31.6]
COUNSELOR: So if you lost weight and then still didn't attract any men then you'd be left with no excuse. 
PATIENT: It would a nice idea to have an excuse.
COUNSELOR: What would it be to have no excuse?
PATIENT: Well what would it mean to have no excuse? Well, now I can say to myself to comfort myself well the only reason that men don't like you or you're not attracted to men or that men are not attracted to you, I should say, is because you're overweight. Men don't like women that are overweight which is not that true. Because I'm not that much overweight. I'm still in the running so to speak. [0:13:35.0]
COUNSELOR: That's comfort.
PATIENT: That's a comfort, sure. Although it is my fault that I'm overweight, it's almost like it's not you. As long as I'm overweight, I can say that it's not me particularly that they don't like. It's the fact that I'm overweight. Then if I lose weight and I got to a point I would know without a doubt that it was not my weight it was not my looks it was just me where I really looked good then I would have no excuse. 
COUNSELOR: It was you would be rejected. {0:14:16.6]
PATIENT: Yeah, me personally. Me myself. Which is not too good for my ego.
It's not me that they are objecting too it's my weight. Which I really know is not true. Really not that much. Well, maybe some guys thing I'm too heavy. I'm not obese. I'm not sure why. I don't comfort myself by eating. If I don't have a date like on Saturday night if I don't have a date, I don't sit around and eat things. I don't have snacks around the house or anything like that. Usually if I don't have a date I make sure I'm out of the house. I go visit my parents. I don't eat that much. I don't sit around and pat myself on the back and say "Well it's alright" and eat a bag of Doritos or something. It's the whole idea; it's not going on a diet. I think I could do that because every time I go to the store, I look through the book section. I've got so many books on diets. Every time I go shopping I shop as if I were on a diet. I don't buy things that wouldn't be good for a diet, if I were on it. I never really go on a diet. I never really stick to the regime of the diet you're supposed to be on. I don't gain weight but I don't lose weight. [0:16:03.5] Sometimes I wonder why I'm not losing weight. I get up and have half a grapefruit and tomato juice for breakfast and I'll have a sandwich for lunch and I'll have maybe some kind of meat for dinner. And that's it. Maybe I'll broil a couple pieces of chicken and eat one for dinner and take one for lunch the next day. I'm not eating that much and aside from the bread that I had with the sandwich at lunch, I still don't lose weight. In order to lose weight, you really have to balance your nutrients with a whole bunch of other stuff. I got books on that too. I got books, you wouldn't believe. I just can't get going on a diet. I have trouble sticking to the diet. Some of the diets I have are very easy to stick to. I can have things that I enjoy. I just can't get started on it. It really aggravates me. I just can't get started. I think maybe if I could just stick to it for a week I would have no trouble sticking to it after that. If I get one entire whole day into a diet that's fantastic, but I'll never make it to two days. I've got this thing about I want to lose weight and I really want to lose weight bad, but evidentially I don't want to lose weight as bad as I. How can I say this so it won't get confusing? I don't want to lose weight as bad as I want not to for some reason. [0:17:49.9]
COUNSELOR: Or at least down around towards the end of the first day towards the end or at the beginning of the second there comes a moment when you want, as much as you generally want to lose weight, at that here moment that you want to eat more.
PATIENT: Yes and No. I want to eat but it's not eating for the sake of eating. I just have to have food or I'll die. 
COUNSELOR: Is that sort of the thing that goes through your mind? I have to have food or I'll die. {0:18:30.6]
PATIENT: No. I know I can probably go for a month without eating as long as I have water, I'd survive. I don't think anything usually; it's just this feeling, when you feel hungry. I feel ravenous. I absolutely feel ravenous. I got sly and said "This is going to happen; I know this is going to happen." I went out and bought myself two packs of carrots and a pack of celery. These are good nibble things. I scraped all the outside off and cut up all the celery the right way and soaked them in the water and everything. I'm ready for this. I grabbed a couple of carrots. It didn't feel me up. It didn't even dint it. It didn't help. So I had some celery. That didn't help, so I thought maybe its meat that I want. Meat is not that bad. So I had a chicken wing and I ate that. No good. I wasn't really hungry and I could have sat there and eaten a whole entire dinner from the state I was in and have been stuffed and still had the same feeling in my stomach. It's not a feeling of hunger; it just translates to a feeling of hungry. I can't explain feelings. This aggravates me when I can't lose weight. I make my mind up to go on a diet. [0:20:06.2]
COUNSELOR: This feeling of wanting maybe or something like that. 
PATIENT: I read this article in Cosmopolitan once, that sex is a good substitute for food if you're going on a diet. I was kidding with my girlfriends about that. I don't even know if that would work. I always thought if I had a really incentive to lose weight I could lose weight. I need a man to give me an incentive to lose weight. But this never really worked. I had the incentive with the first ski trip. I've know for two months about the scuba diving that is coming up. I don't want really want to get out in a bathing suit and start doing all this stuff with the size I am. I've known Jesse since November, this is February, and in those four months I could have lost a lot of weight. I keep thinking I'm going to lose weight, I'm going to lose weight and I never do. I just don't do it. When I go shopping I'm shopping for a diet. I've got really fattening things in my house. I don't know if it is the quantity of food that I eat, or the type, or I don't know. I would think with just the way I eat I would lose a little bit gradually but I haven't been. It's really strange that I can't do it. It makes me mad. I should be able to do anything that I want to do. Just make up my mind and do it. I tell myself I'm going on a diet [0:22:00.7] now. There is no reason in the world you can't go on a diet. This is ridiculous. I just need to do it. I always have things cropping up to get in the way. Something in the ice box has to be finished or I have to throw it out, so I'll wait and I'll start the diet tomorrow. I go on a diet like, I've got chicken cacciatore in the ice box and that's definitely not on the diet. Too many spices and stuff. So I can't go on a diet tonight and tomorrow because of the chicken cacciatore in the ice box. You certainly don't want to waste something like that. It's stupid, but I go ahead and do it. 
COUNSELOR: It can be pretty aggravating. [0:22:49.4]
PATIENT: It's just weak. Just weak. It probably boils down to basically I just don't want to be bothered with it. Maybe it boils down to being lazy again. If I could just convince myself that I'm just lazy. I get mad about it and do it. I think I'm not real sure I would do that. 
COUNSELOR: Too even overcome laziness. 
PATIENT: I'm really not sure. I think maybe if somebody offered me some money I would do it. I think that would work. [0:23:33.6]
COUNSELOR: It seems like you need something extra in the way of a push or a pull. 
PATIENT: I think if I had somebody cooked all my meals for me and I didn't have to get in the kitchen at all and just eat what was put in front of me, I could stick to a diet. 
If I never had to go to the store, never had to cook anything, I could stay on it a lot easier. I don't know. It's aggravating. I don't know. [0:24:26.0]
PATIENT: Well I can't think of anything that has come up since Tuesday with Jack.
Nothing. Zero. [0:25:44.7]
PATIENT: When we were talking Tuesday about maybe if I just would decide by listening to your conversations be reinforced in my own mind that what I have done and not bother to express them to everybody else. Was really worth it and let everybody else in the world know. I don't know if this is going to help me enjoy my own company anymore. I keep thinking along the lines of how I can learn to enjoy myself. I keep thinking along the lines of things that what I can do to make other people think that I'm enjoying myself. [0:27:17.0]
COUNSELOR: That's not the same way. You can sit back. That is for other people's benefit not for yours. 
PATIENT: I was thinking of different looks I could put on my face that people would think that I was in heaven. I really can't get my mind or my thoughts to get around to forget about everybody else; how you enjoy yourself. Doing things that I enjoy doing. I really don't know what I enjoy doing. I do a lot of doing nothing. I don't think it is because I particularly enjoy it, it's just the least amount of trouble to do. 
COUNSELOR: The safest and the easiest. [0:28:32.3]
PATIENT: It's like going out with my friends I would enjoy, except in order to go out with my friends I've got to go all the way out to the suburbs to do anything with my friends because that's where they all live. Living in Central Park. I go out and buy myself projects to do. Most of the time, I just sit there and watch the stupid boob tube. I've got things I have to do right now for the club, calls I have to make and stuff. I knew about Tuesday evening, I had things I needed to do since Tuesday night. I stayed home last night so I could do it and I go up to my parents house and I didn't do them. I did a couple of them. I have to make some calls about the club because I'm the membership chairman. People are behind in their dues and I have to call them to find out if they're still in the club because we need to get their dues in because we need the money and if not, let me know so I can take them off my books. I feel kind of stupid about calling these people so I procrastinate. So then I decided I would call all the girls first and see how that goes. First of all I don't know most of these people. If I knew them I wouldn't feel so bad about it. I don't know them very well. [0:30:01.4]
I don't mind calling up a girl and talking to her, but calling up a guy that I don't know it really makes me feel funny. Some of these guys really especially. Basically I know who they are. I feel funny about it. So I decided we would do it the easy way first and I would call all the girls and if I was having fairly good luck I would call the president and make him call all the boys or make him call the ones I didn't know at all and I would call the ones I knew slightly. So I called the first girl and everything went fine and then I remembered that I wasn't supposed to call her after I hung up because somebody else was going to call her. Which was cool. So I call the second girl on the list and she wasn't home. So I called the third girl on the list and she doesn't live at home. In all our records we have her parent's address and her parent's number she lived at home. She doesn't live there. Her mother was not very nice. I called at 8:30 at night so I didn't wake anybody up. I called after the dinner hour and before the bedtime hour so I would not bother anybody. She wanted to know who it was and so I told her. She said "She's not here right now." I asked "Do you think she would be back before 10:00?" Her mother said "No and she said "who this is?' "I just told her, "It was club business, who I was" and I wanted to talk to her. "Do you think she will be home tomorrow night?" she said "I don't know, I don't know when I'll get in touch with her." I said, "Can I get in touch with her at this number or does she live some place else." The lady didn't say anything. "Could you give her a message?" "I'm sorry I think you'll have to get in touch with her some other way and hung up the phone." I felt bad. So there I was hanging in the air. I really felt bad about that. So I was totally shot down. [0:32:16.3]
COUNSELOR: Yeah, you felt hurt.
PATIENT: I was totally shot down. Yeah, so I didn't make any more calls last night. It's something that has to be done. I really hate to do it. Besides it gets expensive. You have the call so many people on the phone on your own phone. It can get quite expensive. Things I'm supposed to do, I don't do and again I think it is something venturing out like that. Sometimes I'll go through rearrange my looks and go through my stuff. Sometimes I'll do that. I'll take a night to clean up my room or something like that. [0:33:12.5]
I got off track. I'm back to trying to figure out how to enjoy myself and I keep relating it to walking around with a kind of a day dreamy look on my face so people will think I'm lost in a world or something like that. Enjoying myself, lost within myself or something like that. Enjoying my memories or something. I've been trying to think how could I just enjoy myself. I don't even know how to go about arranging my thought patterns how to approach a subject to enjoy it myself. 
COUNSELOR: It's somehow that's a way of approaching things that you're just not used to. 
PATIENT: Every time I think about it I keep coming up with these ideas about expectations that I can put on so other people will think I'm enjoying myself. It has nothing to do with me enjoying it. I guess I may be hoping that subconsciously if I look like I'm enjoying it then maybe I really am. I'm trying to force myself to enjoy it. [0:34:56.6] 
Really concentrate on it. I think maybe putting full consciousness into something would help me to enjoy it, maybe. 
COUNSELOR: You have to put the full consciousness into it.
PATIENT: Putting full consciousness into it and forcibly and just letting myself get into it are two different things. I can try to force myself, but I don't know how to relax and just do it. 
COUNSELOR: Just sort of lead yourself to it and just let yourself slide in. 
PATIENT: I don't know how to do that. I just have to let go and relax. I think of relaxing of letting go and just enjoying it, I can look like I'm doing it. 
COUNSELOR: Like you learn how to fake it. [0:35:50.1]
PATIENT: Yeah. That's not helping me. I can think that I'm doing it even if there's nobody else around to be impressed. I'm just putting on expectations to convince myself but it's not really there. I really don't know how to just enjoy something. Like when I'm skiing. I want to try it when I'm skiing, just to take it slow and easy and maybe ski by myself. While noticing the things that I'm doing wrong, try not to get mad at myself but try to just enjoy it. Instead of just really enjoying skiing down the hill with the wind in my face and the freedom, and all this stuff, I will be thinking to myself isn't this great enjoying all this stuff instead of just doing it. This is what you should be enjoying and these are the points you should be enjoying and you are enjoying them. [0:37:10.8]
COUNSELOR: You are really interested in is not skiing, but is improving yourself in a sense that becoming a better person that's really what you have your mind on and so of course you don't pay attention to the skiing of course you pay attention to how you are doing.
PATIENT: You mean instead of worrying about how well I'm skiing and enjoying the skiing, I'm more worried about how I'm reacting to my enjoying the skiing. I'm more worried about myself and should quite worrying about myself and worry about skiing. 
COUNSELOR: I wasn't saying the last part. 
PATIENT: Instead of worrying or thinking about myself skiing, I should just think about the skiing and forget. 
COUNSELOR: I wasn't saying forget about yourself. In fact, I don't know how you are going to do that. That is pretty hard. I was just saying that of course you're main project in your life is to improve your personality. 
PATIENT: That's the only project in my life. I'm sure. [0:38:59.1]
COUNSELOR: So you're supposed to pay attention to your skiing when you've got serious things on your mind. 
PATIENT: You lost me on that one.
COUNSELOR: Of course you don't pay as much attention to the skiing as to your personality. 
PATIENT: Yeah probably, my personality and how well it looks to other people. If I could just really concentrate on the skiing. 
COUNSELOR: You're saying that I know it would be so much better if I could forget that and address myself with what I'm doing. [0:39:44.6]All
PATIENT: If I could just forget about worrying about my personality. Just forget about worrying about it. I'm more hung up on that than anything else. Whenever I'm in any kind of situation that's all I'm thinking about. Subconsciously or consciously, how does this look to other people. How am I coming across to other people? Not even in just in a group talking situation. Well are they going like me, or are they not going to like me? That is hard to stop doing. I might just all of the sudden discover something and I enjoy my time. All these things I've been worrying about wouldn't happen if I just quit worrying about them. It's hard to do because every time I start trying to do something like that or even along that line, I say to myself, I try to do it consciously. "We are going to forget about (inaudible at 0:41:13.5). We are just going to enjoy it. I forget about it and I force myself to do all these things. I consciously and purposely do things so that everybody else will think that we are not thinking about me or how I'm coming across or worrying about it but that we are busy having a good time. 
COUNSELOR: We are busy skiing. [0:41:36.2]
PATIENT: I'm sure that it is just going to have to be a matter of just forgetting about the whole thing. But again anything I do is going to be a forced situation until I can relax and do it. Maybe I can think about something really hard, and I've thought about maybe doing that, just concentrate so hard on what I'm doing, that I forget about me. 
COUNSELOR: A really focused 
PATIENT: That's one thing I thought that maybe might work. Like this weekend while I'm skiing. While I'm skiing, if I ski by myself or if I ski with some other girls, I can really concentrate on what I'm doing when I'm skiing. [0:42:54.1]
COUNSELOR: It's when you're sitting around with a bunch of people in the evening and stuff. 
PATIENT: I was sitting there trying consciously to just sit there and enjoy what they're saying. When you try to enjoy something it kind of defeats the purpose but I don't know unless I can really get relaxed. I can never get really relaxed until I get feel really comfortable, and I can never feel really comfortable in a big circle. But I can try it while I'm skiing. I can really get lost while I'm skiing. Probably best if I ski by myself and really concentrate on my skiing. Forget about everything else. I don't know if it will work. The thought of just being able to enjoy other people, and I can't enjoy other people for themselves as long as I don't try. Vicious circle. [0:44:18.2]
COUNSELOR: It is hard to take pleasure in it. It's not fun whether you're worried if they don't like you. It's not fun if you're worried about saying the right thing. 
PATIENT: I can play a game to see how long I can go without saying anything, but then again I'm always thinking about myself. Consciously not saying anything. I've thought about that too, to see how long I can go without saying anything in a group of people just sit there. Again, I've had in my mind me sitting there just kind of smiling, listening to everybody, nodding my head occasionally. It's just stupid. I kind of can see what things that I shouldn't do. Things that aren't going to help. I can recognize things that aren't going to help. 
COUNSELOR: Your damned if you can see what you should do. [0:45:52.4]
PATIENT: Again I know what I should do. I should just relax and forget about myself. Forget about how I'm coming across and forget about all these things, but I can't. 
The cause is not always more than of the cure. It really is. 
COUNSELOR: It seems like if you want to do it, you should be able to do it.
PATIENT: Right. I have the feeling it's all a matter of relaxing. It's just all a matter of just relaxing. But one has trouble relaxing when one's not comfortable. 
COUNSELOR: Yes. Yes. Even when you're with your friends you don't feel so comfortable already. [0:47:00.0]
PATIENT: No. There I am while everybody else is comfortable and relaxed here's the kid worrying about how well she's coming across to everybody who can't be comfortable and relaxed. It's all a vicious circle. It seems so stupid to me it really seems stupid to worry about such things and then on the other hand everybody worries about being accepted. I worry about it more. It's a real bad hang up with me. Everybody worries about it to some extent. There's not too many people that really don't care. 
COUNSELOR: That's not a strange thing. 
PATIENT: Everybody worries. It's normal, but not to extremes. I don't know how to stop worrying about it. It's really ridiculous. If I could just worry about people on a one-to-one basis, that might help. But I always worry about everybody else at the same time. Worry is the wrong word. I worry about everybody at the same time. If I could just get a rapport going with one person at a time. 
COUNSELOR: Have time enough to feel a real rapport developing so you could trust it. [0:48:49.9]
PATIENT: Instead of sitting around talking to a bunch of people just talk to one person. I can't ever think of anything to say. If somebody else will start a conversation, I'll jump in. I will go with them, if I haven't got anything to say. I will talk to them. 
COUNSELOR: Are you saying it's hard to talk to one person.
PATIENT: Yeah. It's not hard to talk to somebody I can talk to anybody once a subject is brought up, but I can't usually think of anything that I particularly want to talk about. Just chit chatting. Nothing pops into my mind I'm point blank. I'm not at ease with people. Mostly because if there is a conversation going around I don't have to carry the ball, as far as topic conversations, or anything like that. I can sit there or say something or not say something. But If I have to think of something to say, once the conversation has started, I can become relaxed with one person. [0:50:02.8]
COUNSELOR: But if you're responsible for seeing to it that there is a conversation. 
PATIENT: Yeah. That we just don't sit there and stare at each other, then I'm at a loss. I can't even think of stupid little things to say. Sitting there thinking of something to say because the silence is ridiculous. Instead of being in a group of people, that's one thing, there are advantages to that. I'm not that comfortable around people, especially around men. I really kind of relax after a subject is brought up then we can discuss it and carry it to its finish. Then I can relax and then I tense up again. 
COUNSELOR: Will we find another subject? 
PATIENT: Can I bring up a subject? [0:51:00.3]
COUNSELOR: Like you're not sure that you're supposed to or not that you can. 
PATIENT: It's usually just the fact that I can't think of anything else to talk about. (Inaudible at 0:51:20.5) After I say, "Hello, how are you?" If I want to go there or not I would say "Hi, how are you?" "Are you all ready for the trip?" "Are you going on the trip?" That's it. There is nothing to say. There are topics that come to my mind that I reject. Like complaining topics "Boy did I have a bad day at work today." or something like that. I don't particularly myself personally want to hear about anybody else's problems and I'm sure that people don't particularly care to hear mine. We've all got problems. Bad day at work or something like that. It's not good conversation topics, and I really don't really think it's a topic that anybody enjoys except maybe "How was your day?" "Oh bad girl." "I had a bad day too." 
COUNSELOR: That's enough of that subject. 
PATIENT: "How's work going?" or "How's your job going." [0:52:38.1]
Once you say bad, then I think it should be something neat has happened, something exciting has happened. That's good topic. If you say bad then nobody is going to want to enumerate frustrating or boring things and vice versa. I really have nothing to say to these people. They probably think that when I stop talking, that I don't want to talk to them or I consider talking to them beneath me or something or I'm just a dud which is the truth. I really have nothing to say. I'm not sure if I were relaxed would I have anything to say. I may be enjoying seeing them. I may be very flattered and enjoy the fact that they stopped to say hello. I say "Hello, how are you", and then this clutching fear comes over me because I don't have anything else to say. Then I usually say something stupid or ask them something like, "Are you all ready for the trip?" "Did you have a good [0:53:57.3] time on the last trip?" I know something else about the person I'll ask inquiries to some other thing. Then I think I probably get this really stupid look on my face because I feel stupid. There I am. 
COUNSELOR: Looking stupid feeling stupid.
PATIENT: Yeah. It's especially bad with men. 
COUNSELOR: Then you really clutch.
PATIENT: That just kills relaxing around people. I'll like look around the room and occasionally I'll see somebody and make some kind of thought in my mind about them. Most of the people I don't react to at all. You don't react to everybody you see looking around a bar, a room or anyplace else. I have the fear that everybody who sees me, sees me and everybody has made a judgment about me and they're all bad. [0:55:15.0]
COUNSELOR: They've said what a dud. 
PATIENT: I keep telling myself that's not true, because I do not do that to other people. Most of the people have not ever even seen me. I know this for a fact. Because I've met people through Alicia or somebody else that I have seen, this is my basic social center, and I have seen in there lots of time but have never seen me before. 
COUNSELOR: But you are feeling like they've made a decision is that every time to talk to any of them it's as if you are talking to someone who did have something against you. [0:56:04.9]
PATIENT: Not necessarily something against me, just a negative opinion about me. 
COUNSELOR: You never even start from even. You always at least in your mind start from several steps back.
PATIENT: It usually starts because nobody usually ever talks to me. If I'm there by myself or waiting for Alicia and then somebody approaches me and automatically I'm suspicious. Why does he want to talk to me? Nobody else wants to talk to me. What's the matter with him? 
COUNSELOR: He must be a loser since he picked me out. [0:56:44.2]
PATIENT: Not necessarily a loser. Maybe he's near sighted or maybe he's drunk, or maybe he's got ideas I don't particularly care to take part in or something like that or he must be a loser. I do think that too. Some of these people are very nice. Then I start wondering why did he start talking to me. Maybe he just likes me. These are things that just roll through my mind. I don't sit there and consciously think about these things. They just roll through my mind. Maybe he just likes to go around and talk to people to give him a thrill. 
COUNSELOR: If a seemingly nice person is coming over it must be because he feels sorry for you or something. Because they've all seen you already and formed a bad opinion, of course, you have to fit that in with the bad opinion they've formed of you. [0:58:00.9]
PATIENT: It's stupid and it really is. I tell myself it's stupid.
COUNSELOR: Can you stop thinking that?
PATIENT: I get reinforcing feelings too. If I walk into this room and I'm sitting there waiting for Alicia, I'm usually sitting there with maybe a blank stare on my face. I feel uncomfortable, first of all, sitting there. I never know where to look and you can only read the sign above the bar so many times. Just sit there and stare at it. I'm afraid if I just look at other people, they're going to think that I'm flirting with them or something, or that I'm coming on strong or something like that. I don't want that. I don't want them to think I'm starring. I'm just casually just looking around the bar. I have a feeling that if anybody is looking, they think I'm out on the make or looking for a pick up or something like that. (inaudible at 0:58:56.5) I just look sad. I've just got a nothing expression. That's why I try doing things like sitting there thinking. [0:59:08.8]
COUNSELOR: Oh
PATIENT: Daydreaming, or I put a pleasant smile on my face, kind of a half laugh. And I sit there and I daydream or I think about things I used to do when I lived back in Kansas. Just force myself to think of neat things. Or paint pictures in my mind. I do a lot of that. I draw pictures in my mind. I can't draw them on paper so I draw them in my mind. Actually, I conjure them up. Pleasant scenes usually, a windy day in April flying kites or something. 
COUNSELOR: That should be good. [1:00:01.2]
END TRANSCRIPT
