Transcript of Audio File:
______________________________________________________________________________
BEGIN TRANSCRIPT:
THERAPIST: Hi come on in.
CLIENT: I just came from (inaudible00:00:13). So I want to start off where we left last time just talking about a couple (inaudible00:00:28) about it. Not really a lot. I've just been kind stuck thinking about how I really do feel a lot ... I put myself in a position to feel kind of on my own. You know like my situation is so different. And I know that it's something that it kind of ... you know I see myself in that way. I think I definitely do it intentionally because I have this mentality that like people don't understand. And it obvious that I don't think that everyone else has had something to go through. I think that everybody has their own ... you know hardships to overcome things from their past that they've had to deal with that are hard.
(00:01:32)
I always, in family situations feel like I understand that you have this problem but like you just are not going to relate to what is going on with me. And so I always kind of put a wall and just don't really ... like I get almost annoyed when my girlfriends ... I have some girlfriends back home from California who try to relate and say like, my dad was such an ass growing up like he rode me at soccer and all this stuff and it would just bother me. Like their attempts to relate to something that as I saw it was so different and (pause) it came from a good place. It came from like this camaraderie of like trying to support each other. It came from really trying to be helpful, trying to understand and to try to ... I don't know. But I just ... I hated it. That always bothered me. And it still you know does a little bit, like you know you don't ... you don't understand like it's not the same as your dad like yawned at that dinner table a couple of times. It's not the same.
(00:03:01)
But I do think that (pause) I don't know. I think that I don't give enough people not ... not a (inaudible00:03:15) I think that I have a hard time feeling sympathy or empathy for other people's issues that they've had maybe. Because I think like, how are you (inaudible00:03:25)? A lot a times when I think people are kind of like making something out of nothing but the big scheme of things like the thinks I went through aren't that terrible either. People have had much harder and much worse struggles than I have. I'm not saying like things that I've done or like had to experience are earth shattering ... like I think that they were awful. They were bad but like I don't want to paint ... I don't think the worst thing that anyone or whatever (ph). All I'm saying is that like I wish that I had more empathy for ... the only person I have empathy for, I mean only person that I like feel can understand ... I think about like actual pain growing up is my friend Jay, Chris's best friend that lives here whose dad past away suddenly and his dad was just similar in a certain sense to our dad. Jay is the only one that I kind of relate to and when he talks about his dad, he's the only one I really listen too and the only one that I kind of (pause) I kind of ... my heart like kind of, you know goes out to him a little bit. But he's like the only example.
(00:04:40)
All my other friends I just kind of have like a ... like sounds like your dad really wanted you to be soccer star and that's really hard on me but like ... he really bitched. So I'm like grow up. And it's like it's the same entirely how I am with myself about a lot of things where it's like get over it, so I would have to move on. And I have tell everybody else I for the most part I just ... I wish I could too because I think that it makes me unavailable for support. My friends are just trying to help or you know ... I don't know. I wish ... I just (pause) I just think that like I in my head and I hear ... I don't know.
(00:05:39)
THERAPIST: When you hear?
CLIENT: When I hear people trying to like relate to something that I'm saying (pause) I one up. All I want to do is be like to you ever do this, this, this, and this? No, then stop. Then just stop, please. Because you don't ... it's not the same. Like I just ... I get mad. Or the opposite happens and like my girlfriends from back home from when I was growing up, the ones who didn't have to talk to about things when they were happening, when they were growing up. And I always feel like (pause) they think I'm making a bigger deal of things. Like a couple of weeks ago my girlfriend Julia, my oldest friend and her husband were over our house. We were all just hanging out and it was when we had come back from Georgia. So the trip came up and I said you know my grandmother is just hard to take. Like just kind of rides on people and I feel like she particularly has it out for me and she just ... it's just hard to take. And Chris said well you know she has that (inaudible00:06:49) ready. And kind of like started to like say you know you don't ... well how I heard it was like you're making this a bigger deal than it needs to be. And I was like, bull no. But Chris ... and I said like this ... you know I gave three examples of things that she had said. And he's like she like done that to Judy. She did it to me at one point; she does it to your dad. I was like I know she's just hard to be around. And then my friend Rebecca who had come to Georgia with once when I was in high school I brought four girlfriends down with me to Georgia once, she's like but your grandma wasn't like that when we were in Georgia; when we were all down there. I was like, I know not in front of all of you guys but she'd do it when you left the room or she's say things to me that you guys wouldn't catch being cutting. But they were to me but you wouldn't know that.
(00:07:40)
And she like kind of gave me this look like ... like I don't know. Like I think or at least she dropped it after that but I would take it is like (pause) everybody things that I'm making a bigger deal of these things than need to be and that I'm being dramatic. And so then I get defensive and I just don't really talk about it anymore. And so I explained to Chris afterwards I said, you know I got upset because you made me feel like (pause) he was down playing my feelings in the situation that he was kind of saying what I've always felt which is that, you know the situation is not as bad as I make it to be and that (pause) and that I'm just making a bigger deal of things than they need to be. And it just makes me feel kind of crazy. (pause) I don't know. I mean these are the two scenarios I go back and forth with my friends where I either feel like people are trying to relate to me and it bothers me or people don't really believe me and that bothers me.
(00:09:04)
And so I just a lot of times don't really talk about it anymore. (pause) And I guess, I mean like if they had seen ... I guess I would probably think the same thing too if I had been around ... it's like how (pause) I don't know. If I had been around I guess a situation and I saw like this guy being kind of like down I guess or you know this grandmother who seemed nice and I was actually not around it and didn't talk to anybody ... like when we went down to Georgia my grandmother just left us. This was when we were in high school. Left us alone and we did our own thing the whole week and she was ... she would be around when we ate dinner and then other than that ... I guess if I was my friend I'd probably think the same thing. Like I didn't see anything. I don't know it sounds like you're probably maybe making ... I'd probably think the same thing.
But (sigh) I don't know why I have this impulse to make people believe (pause) what I'm saying is true. It's like I want people to feel bad for me or something. Like I don't know.
THERAPIST: Something I said a few minutes ago was awful that resonated with you.
CLIENT: It felt like ... yeah I think so too. But (pause) but then there's like another voice in my head that says other people had it way worse and so it wasn't (pause) I don't know. It felt validating for you to say it was awful. Because nobody says that to me but at the same time reactions always to be like it was you know ... I don't know. (pause) (sigh) I guess it just ... (pause) I just wish I had more patience for people, I guess.
(00:12:19)
THERAPIST: Well it seems like you feel almost like prepared to be misunderstood.
CLIENT: Yeah. But ... I mean, yeah. But I don't know if that need for people to (pause) I don't know. It's like have this need to be (pause) you know I guess just understood. But it feels like more than that too. It feels like (pause) like believed. I don't know. (pause) Because even when I think about some of things that happened like, they do sound far-fetched and (pause) they sound kind of crazy and I don't know if I believe it. But (pause) I don't know why I need my friends to understand so badly.
THERAPIST: Why wouldn't you want them to understand?
(00:14:13)
CLIENT: I don't know. I just wonder ... like what I want. Is it do I want them to feel bad for me? Do I want them to like say like, oh my God that sounds awful. What do I want from this? Do I, you know (pause) and I think that's what it is and it's like all you want is sympathy then that's kind of like (pause) that sounds kind of pathetic.
THERAPIST: Why?
CLIENT: It just doesn't sound like very good character to me. Just sounds ... it just sounds pathetic. (pause) Like I don't want to ... I don't know. I called my best friend Chrissie last Thursday when I found out my dad was going back to treatment; I was really upset and I was crying and I called her and she was just emotionless. It was like that sucks he's going back in. I said I'm really excited, I'm really excited because we were just down there and tried to explain like why I was so upset by it and she's like, yeah I mean like ... you know? You spend a lot of time with them and he'll go I'll be fine. And then that was it. And I just left and I finished the conversation like, no it's not just fine. And I wasn't upset with her because she shouldn't know how to react to that situation. It's not ... although she's go to college and she returned to college. So you'd think she'd have a little bit the background.
THERAPIST: She was a ...
CLIENT: She was a psych major in college. You'd think that a little bit better of what I'm saying. I don't know. But it was like a thirty second conversation and I was like, all right well like it sounds like you're busy so I'm going to let you go. And it's just like ... I don't know. Those conversations just make me feel so (pause) much lonelier. Like in the whole thing. Hard to say like (pause) I don't know.
(00:17:02)
Like you really don't think it's out there but somebody else maybe I'm making a bigger deal of it (pause) then I just always feel like I'm being really dramatic. I hear myself keep saying how I'm watching other people's reaction and gauging my own emotions on them. That's ... like I'm saying they react this way so then I think this. And that's something that I think I do a lot. I mean we've talked about it. (pause) (sigh) I guess that's what ALANON is good for. But I don't go anymore.
THERAPIST: How do you mean?
CLIENT: Just being around other people that are in similar circumstances and understand and (pause) can relate ... and I don't take from his babies. It's just the mentality I take with my friends sometimes when say that ... you know certain things about it.
THERAPIST: What's the difference?
CLIENT: Well when I go to ALANON there would be other people who had close, you know relationships. They've been through similar experience. Like actual similar experiences. So with an addiction and everything that comes along with that and I feel and maybe I'm wrong, but that's a really isolated situation. I mean it's not something that a lot of people can relate to and so I had more patience and understanding for people who are here and speak than for my friends who would say like, you know they're dad lost their temper a couple of times. Because that didn't feel the same but with ALANON it does feel the same. Because it's much more similar and (pause) and I ... It just feels that I like (pause) Like this wall with my friends. Like closed off where it's like I'm only so close to you because there's this whole other part of me that I don't really (pause) let go and to share. Because you're going to irritate me when you try to relate to me or make me feel bad when you question the validity of what I'm saying. And so I just always feel kind of (pause) I don't know. I feel like I'm wearing a mask a lot. But I'm ... like I'm just ... (pause)
(00:21:27)
THERAPIST: That you're covering something up?
CLIENT: Mm-hm. (pause) Or I'm just trying to be a way that (pause) (sigh) it's like I'm really happy until I'm not. And that it's like the mask is worn off and I'm tired and I need to like get over it. And it's like, you know I have to leave ... you know not like leave but then I just like shut down or stop talking usually. (pause) That's how I feel about the kind of all ... even when it doesn't like ... even when (inaudible00:22:35) doesn't go out on surrounding ... put out just like how I feel. This weekend we went out. I had a girlfriend in town; my friend Chrissie and her boyfriend and Chris had some friends in a hotel and everyone went out on Saturday and I'm not drinking right now because of the stuff in my stomach but everyone else was drinking and (inaudible00:22:56) like getting more drunk and more drunk and more drunk and I was feeling like fine and fun and still like dancing and smiling and having a great time and being really nice to this girlfriend like engaging whatever. And then at the end of the night I just hit a wall. And it was like all my patience, kind of run out. And every like staying happy smiling ... like totally engaging moment was over, as done and I need to get a cab and needed to go home. Because I was over it and I guess it was because everyone was really drunk and I was dead sober. But it was also just because that's how I get. Like I just ... I hit a wall by like (pause) happy clown dance and then I'm done and I have to go.
THERAPIST: Why do you think you put on the happy clown dance?
CLIENT: I don't know, just to ... I don't know. I've just done it my whole life. I've always just been that kind of person, not like, loud in your face and kind of like happy and yelling and really seem like it right now. But like you know I've just always that way and I just feel like it's this ... because who wants to go out with a person who's like ho-hum and sitting in the corner and talking about like their problems, you know? Because like that girl sucks. So ...
THERAPIST: Those are the two options?
CLIENT: (laugh) Feels like it. I mean, no obviously there are other options and obviously I could be like, I should be calmer and ... but also, you know it's like there's a (inaudible00:24:55) whatever I do. It's like, you know that's how I always got attention and that's how I got ... I mean people like that kind of girl. When I'm that kind of girl like it usually is like funny and (pause) is engaging. It's ... I don't know. (pause) But that's definitely not the two options. (pause)
(00:25:27)
THERAPIST: Do you imagine if you weren't just sort of happy, clown like dance that you'd always be that sort of girl sitting in the corner talking about her problems?
CLIENT: Yeah I don't ... I don't have like an in between mode. I don't have (pause) like the in between mode. I always think that's the in between mode PR is asking what's wrong. Like what's wrong? You look like some ... what's the matter? Even Chris, it's like you've been here for five years, this is my face. If I'm not like happy and running around and freaking out this is just my face. But I always feel like if I'm not on then people are asking me what's the matter? Then I just ... then I feel like there's two modes and that I just don't have a middle. (pause) I'm going to have a middle but like ... when I have the middle it's like I just don't want ... I want to be kind of like alone. I don't really want to talk. I want to be quiet. That's sounds like sad (inaudible00:27:00).
THERAPIST: Sounds like the sad?
CLIENT: Version. Like the sad me. Because like there's like (pause) out me, me like with ... everybody outside and then there's like me (pause) kind of how I feel most of the time which is just like, ugh. Like I'm just tired. I'm cranky and want to be left alone almost always. Do I not sound like a really lovely person to be around? (laugh) That's sounds awful. But I even do it at home with Chris. Because it's like, you know (pause) like I pretty much always just (pause) I shouldn't say that. That's not true. It's not all the time. (sigh) (pause)
(00:28:14)
Does this sound like bipolar or something? That doesn't sound very lovely.
THERAPIST: Like your dad?
CLIENT: Yeah. Exactly. (pause) I don't know. Is that like a learned behavior or is that just a true like used sometimes kit ... like what is that? Is that ... outside of the house where putting on a show and inside the house (pause) take it off and anything goes? Or is that just like how I dealt with things. Like I just can't ... I just don't know. (pause) And I guess nothing seems like, you know my friends see me out and I seem happy and I seem like I'm having a great time and I you know, I'm energetic and I'm (pause)you know? Then they see me, you know two days later and it's like I'm sad and there's all this stuff going on and it's like then maybe it would seem a little bit like weird and not (pause) like the two don't match up. And so maybe from there it's like I saw you two days ago and you were like off (inaudible00:30:08) like, you know, or like earlier tonight you were so happy and what now your like crying, you know? Like what is that? And so I think maybe if I were them I could see how I could look like, you just look unstable. You look, you know? (pause) (sigh) (pause) I don't know. Anyway.
(00:30:59)
THERAPIST: You're done with that topic?
CLIENT: I don't have anything else to say about it. I can't think of anything else.
THERAPIST: Is this one of these moments when you say I feel unstable because I don't respond and you feel like I'm agreeing?
CLIENT: No. (pause) It just makes me feel really anxious because I can see it and I see how it seems unstable.
THERAPIST: Mm-hm.
CLIENT: And so, like it makes me feel anxious and as soon as I said that I felt like (pause) I don't want to talk about this anymore. (emotional) Because it felt ...
THERAPIST: What do you think was going on for you to feel anxious?
CLIENT: Because I realized how unstable I seem or how unstable I could seem. (pause) Yeah that makes feel (pause) a little, just uncomfortable I guess. (pause) (sigh)
(00:32:32)
I just don't know. I guess they just don't feel like I'm a very friend or like have very ... I feel like I have two solid friendships. But even those friendships are just ... I mean ... more than that. Two girlfriends who I go to with things when it's like these you know kinds of things that I'm upset about. And even those friendships it's like one of them is Chrissie the girl that I called and felt like sick. That was kind of a let down of a (pause) you know reaction and then (pause) one of them is Emma, my friend who lives with (inaudible _00:33:44) wife. Who ... she and I just annoy each other a lot. We're so much that our personalities just, we get annoyed with each other easily. I guess that's every relationship but ... (pause) I'm reading this book about friendship and stuff and I think it like has an effect on ...
(00:34:15)
THERAPIST: What about the book about friendship?
CLIENT: It's called MWF seeking BFF. It's this woman who moves to Chicago (inaudible00:34:24).
THERAPIST: Uh-huh.
CLIENT: It's this woman's ... she's writing about her own experience moving to Chicago to be with her boyfriend at the time, now husband. She left all of her best friends in New York City and she is looking for a best friend. And so she goes out on a girl date once a week for a year and then she like, you know she talks about these studies that reads and all these other ... so she sprinkles it with also like some, you know some facts to go along with it. And then like how she puts that into her girl dating life. It's cute and it's funny and it's like charming. But then I of course like take everything so seriously. And so I start thinking about things and I start thinking about my friendships and how do my friendships compare and how do (pause) like how do I, you know, are my friendships as good as these friendships that she's talking about with her best friends and (pause) then I know that's really (inaudible 00:35:35), but I just ... I don't know I just over analyze everything. (pause) So then I start thinking about it and I start thinking about like my friendship with this one and my friendship that one and I don't ... and then what is like causing me to feel some of the ways I feel about my relationships with my friends. (pause)
(00:36:07)
And then I want to like, like my girlfriend Emma and I. I question ... it's very competitive. Like it's very ... it's like on the same ... it's just a little bit competitive. (pause) Like I have this thing ... I went to the doctor and I had the thing with my stomach and I went out with them that evening. I said all right, my doctor is concerned and before doing anything a little bit more evasive she wants to try out this medication and this diet and see if that helps. And the next day I get a text from Emma saying like I'm inspired. Like I'm going to do the same diet at you. Like just to cleanse myself and then that like bothers me because I'm like why do you have to do what I'm doing? Like do your own thing. And I know that it's because like whatever. But it's like that kind of thing all the time and then we have just this like back and forth where we just kind of annoy each other. (pause) And then part of me like, you know ... I don't know. We're going to dinner on Friday and I've been thinking all week like that would be a good opportunity for me to talk to Emma about some of these things that I feel like we need to work on in our friendship. Just like (pause) being like more ... like I don't really trust her because in the past I've told her things that have gotten out to other friends and then like maybe sometimes I'm really harsh to her and not very supportive and I'll say things sometimes that are kind of like cutting. And maybe would hurt her feelings.
And then I feel like I want to bring these things up to her on Friday when it's just the two of us at dinner. But then I think like well is that weird? You know maybe she doesn't feel that way or maybe you know like I'm making a bigger problem out of something that will just like work itself out in time. But we've been friends for six years now and it hasn't really like ... we still have that kind dynamic and I just don't like it because I love her and I know that she loves me but we don't support each other in these ways that are healthy. And that's why I want to bring it up without like pointing a finger because it's me too. I don't want her to like take it as like a criticism because it's both of us. But I know that sometimes when I say things like that I sound critical. And then I think like I just shouldn't do it because I'm going to hurt her feelings or like we're going to get in a fight.
(00:39:08)
THERAPIST: You don't imagine that she would be receptive?
CLIENT: Yeah I get nervous about her reaction and then my reaction to her reaction and then ... (pause) I also don't want to say it. It's like even if I should if it's how I feel then it's valid but I don't want to say if it's like she doesn't go away at all and she thinks that we have this like amaze ... you know like (pause) I don't think we have a terrible friendship but I think that we just have a lot to work on. Sounds like I'm dating the girl. But like we're together so much and our husbands are so close that I feel like we owe it to ourselves and kind of to them. Because Chris doesn't know it and know Jay must get annoyed for that fact they're like, we leave and I'm like did she annoy you about this?
THERAPIST: Could you feel like that's a way for you to get close to Chris?
CLIENT: Yeah, I think so. I do it with ... like I, I do that a lot. I mean I just ... it's a really big flaw of mine. That's a huge problem. I mean not a huge problem. The huge problem is I say like, I hate that about myself that we leave a situation and it's not just with Chris, it will be with Chrissie, it will be with Emma, it will be with whoever. And it's like (pause) Okay did they even know when they were doing this? Or like can you believe that or this happened? And it's just this like thing that happens. (pause) It's just not a good trait. (emotional) Because it undermines the other friendship. Like it just ... I don't know. And then how does anybody trust you after you're saying these things like so Emma and I are going to leave a lunch with Katherine and we're going to talk about Katherine? How's is Emma ever going to trust that when she leaves a situation I'm not going to talk about her? Like I see all these things happening and I know that. Yeah it's like this bonding thing.
And ... (pause) I mean there's like a handful of people that I just won't do that to but outside of that (pause) I just (pause) have no filter. And it's not a very good quality.
(00:41:50)
THERAPIST: Well that would be counted as a filter.
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: Well what you're talking about is like feeling like someone needs to be on the outside, this sort of thing and group and usually you feel like you're on the outside and this is a way for you to feel like you're on the inside and not the outside.
CLIENT: Mm-hm. Yeah, that's true. (pause) But I mean it's just ... it's not a productive way of thinking. (pause) And I know ... you know ... I don't know. (sigh) (pause)
THERAPIST: What were you going say?
CLIENT: Well by doing it like of course it goes back to me. But by doing it you're just opening yourself up too which is like to people. I mean this is so selfish, but ... (pause) if my friends hear me talking badly about our other friends what's ... you know of course they're going to say things about me behind my back. Because why wouldn't they, you know? And I hear ... you know it's like (pause) it's like if all of our friends talk about each other what's going to stop them from talking about me. So there's no motivation for me to really stop doing it when we're together. My motivation needs to be that it's just not a nice thing to do and then it's not a healthy way to have friendships.
(00:43:48)
But (pause) ...
THERAPIST: Well one way I guess is to talk yourself out of doing this, which is sort of what you're trying to do. Basically talk yourself out of. But I think maybe as you feel less like an outsider in other ways you'll have less of a need to do this.
CLIENT: Yeah. That's true. I just feel ... I mean I just always feel socially insecure. I mean I just feel insecure. I mean insecurity is a huge problem for me and I just ... across the board affects ... (pause) and it's kind of ... because I ... the thing that's ridiculous is like I just don't have any reason to feel that way. But I just do and I'm always concerned and then there's like, you know the whole ... I don't know. (pause) And stupid Facebook. (laugh) I don't know.
THERAPIST: What's wrong with Facebook?
CLIENT: (laugh) Everyone is addicted to Facebook. But like I'll write something to someone on Facebook and then they won't write me back. I feel like, why didn't you write me back? Like what's she saying? What I said was like two of our (inaudible 00:45:19) like when I ... that's coming on too strong you I should like tone it down. And then I just think about like, I wrote my girlfriends who has friends up in New Mexico and I haven't seen her in almost two years and we'll be in Sante Fe in July and so I wrote like, (inaudible 00:45:37) I wrote this thing and soon as I heard it I was like, wow that came really strong. And I wanted to delete it but I didn't and then she just hasn't written me back or said anything. And I can see that she's been on because (inaudible00:45:50), this sounds so creepy. And so then I get all insecure and like, oh my God she thinks that I'm like some freak. But I like ... but I'm friends with this girl. Like I was good friends with this girl for ... you know her ex-boyfriend is Chris's oldest friend and they lived together when we all lived in New Mexico. We were really close friends there's no reason for me to think ... if anything it's because she and this guy broke up and she knows we'll be staying ... you know ...
THERAPIST: Yeah when you're describing the creeping it sounds like you fear you're stalking her, she'll feel as though you're stalking her.
CLIENT: Oh, absolutely.
THERAPIST: Yes it reminds me of the ... just thinking about the book that you're reading about friendships and the complexity of them. We're going to need to stop.
CLIENT: Okay.
THERAPIST: And her I have your ... this is your statement with your co-pay.
CLIENT: Okay.
THERAPIST: And I gave you the credit from last month.
CLIENT: Oh, great.
THERAPIST: You'd overpaid according because I've redone that statement.
CLIENT: Okay.
THERAPIST: With a new ...
CLIENT: Okay.
THERAPIST: So here you go.
CLIENT: Thank you.
THERAPIST: And I'll see you on Monday.
CLIENT: Yes, sounds great.
THERAPIST: Okay, take care.
CLIENT: Thanks, you too.
END TRANSCRIPT
