<font size="4"><b>Somatic Control Strategies</b></font>
[p. <i>1046</i>]

<b>DESCRIPTION OF THE STRATEGY</b>


Somatic control strategies refer to techniques one can
use to manage aversive physiological symptoms that
may interfere with functioning. Such physiological
symptoms include shaking, trembling, hyperventilation,
rapid heartbeat, muscle tension, and "butterflies"
or nervousness in the stomach, among others. Controlling
or managing these symptoms may lead as
well to the amelioration of related problems such as
sleep disturbance, difficulty driving, and embarrassment
in social situations. Somatic control strategies
are most commonly used for people with anxiety disorders
and related conditions but can be useful as
well for people with other mental or physical conditions
that involve high levels of physiological arousal
or pain. The procedures are also used in many cases
as preparation for advanced exposure-ased techniques.
Somatic control strategies often involve progressive
muscle relaxation, breathing retraining,
applied tension, and other procedures.


<b>Progressive Muscle Relaxation</b>


Progressive muscle relaxation can be conducted in
many ways, although one of the most common involves
a tension-elease model. In this procedure, a client is
instructed to sit in a comfortable chair in a therapist's
office and try to relax as much as possible. The lights
may be dimmed with the goal of providing as relaxed
an environment as possible. The therapist then asks the
client to concentrate on his or her voice to the exclusion
of other distractions. During the procedure, described
completely by the therapist, the voice should be kept
even and smooth to promote a sense of calm.


The initial target of progressive muscle relaxation
can vary but often involves the hands. The client is
instructed to ball one of his or her hands into a fist.
The client is then told to squeeze the fist as tightly as
possible, with care taken with long fingernails or any
physical condition (e.g., arthritis) the client may have.
The fist is held tightly for 5 to 10 seconds, after which
the client is instructed to quickly release the fist and
allow the hand to fall limp. After a period of several
seconds, the client is again instructed to ball his or her
hand into a fist and hold it tightly for 5 to 10 seconds.
The therapist should carefully examine the client's
hand to see if it is indeed tightly held and instruct
the client to squeeze harder if necessary. Following the
second period of tension, the client is again asked to let
go quickly of the fist and allow the hand to feel limp.
The process is repeated with the other hand. At this
point, the therapist may wish to help the client understand
the difference between a tense fist and a loose
hand and the accompanying sensations. As the hand
falls limp after tension, for example, most people
report sensations of relaxed muscles, warmth, and
tingliness. This should be shown to the client as different
from sensations of tension, tightness, and pain.


Following this initial procedure, the therapist may
instruct the client to tense and release additional muscle
groups. A common second target is the arms,
which may be twisted and tensed and released individually
or together. Again, the procedure is to have
the client tense for 5 to 10 seconds and release quickly
to feel the relaxation. Intermittently throughout the
progressive muscle relaxation procedure, the therapist
praises the client for his or her effort and expresses the
belief that the client will become a good relaxer. In
addition, the client is reminded periodically during the
process to focus on the difference between tensed and
relaxed muscles, a difference not always recognized
in people with anxiety disorders or chronic tension.


Targets of relaxation next include the shoulders,
face, jaw, stomach, legs, and feet. With respect to the
shoulders, the client is instructed to raise his or her
arms over the head and stretch the arms as far as possible
toward the ceiling. If the client can stretch his or
her arms backward past the head, this may be encouraged
as well. With respect to the face, the client is
instructed to squeeze muscles around the eyes, nose,
cheeks, and other areas, being careful if wearing contact
lenses. With respect to the jaw, the client is
instructed to clench his or her jaw muscles or teeth
tightly before releasing. With respect to the stomach,
the client is instructed to bring his or her stomach
inward and as close to the spine as possible. This is
recommended for clients who have "butterflies" in the
stomach but not for those who experience nausea when
anxious or in pain. With respect to the legs and feet, the
client is instructed to tense by pushing the feet or toes
toward the floor. At the end of the exercise, the client
is encouraged to sit comfortably and try to relax his or
her entire body, focusing on any areas of tension that
remain and working to ease the muscles in that area.


The relaxation procedure in its entirety lasts about
25 minutes. Following this in-ession procedure,

[p. <i>1047</i>]

<b>Breathing Retraining</b>


Another somatic control exercise is breathing
retraining, which is particularly useful for people who
breathe shallowly or who hyperventilate when anxious
or otherwise aroused. Breathing retraining focuses
mostly on diaphragmatic breathing, or breathing
deeply into the lungs and against the diaphragm (as
opposed to chest breathing by simply expanding the
rib cage). For children, this is done by asking them to
inhale slowly through their nose, hold their breath for
about a second, and exhale slowly out of their mouth
with pursed lips. This can be done several times in a
row each session for about 5 minutes. For added effect,
children can press their fingers into their ribcage as
they inhale. If a person has trouble breathing in this
way, he or she may be asked to lie on a couch or the
floor. Youth are generally encouraged to count aloud
slowly (i.e., 1, 2, 3, 4) as they inhale and exhale so that
both breathing processes are similar in length.


For young children, imagery during the procedure
can be helpful. For example, a child can imagine a tire
being inflated and deflated as they inhale and exhale.
Another common image is to have a child picture a
hot air balloon that needs air as fuel. The child is
encouraged to think of himself or herself as the balloon
filling up with fuel and rising, then gradually
releasing air to return to the ground. These analogies
are useful because children often understand the consequences
of too much and too little air in tires and
balloons.


As with progressive muscle relaxation, breathing
retraining can be used during stressful situations in
daily life. In fact, breathing retraining is often preferred
by clients over muscle relaxation because it is
portable, easier to do without other people taking notice,
and less time-onsuming. In many treatment protocols
for anxiety disorders, however, progressive muscle
relaxation and breathing retraining are administered
together because the breathing enhances the effects of
the muscle relaxation.


<b>Applied Tension</b>


Another somatic control exercise commonly used
for an anxiety disorder, but which involves an increase
in muscle tension, is applied tension. For most people
with specific phobias (e.g., of heights), panic attacks
and increased physiological arousal are the norm when
they come into contact with their phobic stimulus. Most
commonly, these people experience accelerated heart
rate and blood pressure and may require the procedures
discussed above. However, for people with a specific
phobia of blood, injections, or injury, a decrease in
blood pressure and reduced blood flow to the brain is a
common symptom. This vasovagal response and the
subsequent fainting that it often produces eventually
becomes, in many cases, the very event that people fear
even more than blood or the needle itself.


To address this peculiar specific phobia, one
method that has been developed is applied tension.
Although various forms of applied tension exist, a
common method is to first have the client identify
physical sensations that warn him or her that fainting
may soon occur. Examples include lightheadedness,
weakness in the limbs, or temperature changes. Whenever
the client feels as though fainting is imminent,
applied tension procedures are used.


In a therapy session, the client is usually instructed
to sit in a comfortable chair and imagine feelings of
faintness. An imaginalscene may be presented to
enhance this process. When the client feels faint or
can vividly imagine fainting, he or she is instructed
to tense various muscles around the neck, shoulders,
back, chest, and legs. The stomach is often left relaxed
so the person can practice diaphragmatic breathing.
The muscles are generally tensed all at once for 10 to
30 seconds or until the person feels that his or her face
is flushed. The person is then instructed to fully relax
his or her body and practice diaphragmatic breathing
for at least 30 seconds. The process is then repeated.


Over time, the person practices applied tension
several times a day and at times when he or she is
most at risk for fainting. The optimal level of tension
and relaxation is specific to each client, so practice to
find the best individual strategy is recommended. As
with other somatic control methods, applied tension
serves partially as a prelude to exposure-ased techniques
where a person gradually approaches a feared

[p. <i>1048</i>]

<b>Other Methods</b>


Although progressive muscle relaxation and breathing
retraining are commonly used in therapy to lower
tension, other somatic control strategies are available
and may be preferable for some clients. Common
examples include meditation, hypnosis, and pharmacotherapy.
Some clients prefer to meditate and are able
to successfully lower their arousal level when doing so.
Therapists can thus utilize meditation in lieu of other
somatic control strategies mentioned above. In addition,
some clients respond best to hypnosis or focused
arousal away from muscle tension, although hypnosis
is generally dependent on therapist inducement and
therefore not portable in many daily life situations.


Pharmacotherapy may also be used as a somatic
control strategy in certain situations. Classes of drugs
most utilized in this regard include anxiolytics, sedatives,
and antidepressants. More specifically, benzodiazepine
drugs are commonly used to reduce physiological
arousal and include clonazepam (Klonopin), chlordiazepoxide
(Librium), diazepam (Valium), lorazepam
(Ativan), alprazolam (Xanax), triazolam (Halcion), and
oxazepam (Serax). Pharmacotherapy is sometimes
recommended as an adjunctive treatment for people
with severe levels of fear or anxiety that initially prevent
a full engagement in exposure-ased treatment. Most
protocols for treating anxiety disorders recommend a
gradual weaning of pharmacological agents prior to the
end of therapy.


<b>RESEARCH BASIS</b>


The concept of somatic control strategies has been
discussed in the literature for decades as a way of
countering excessive physiological arousal. Tension-elease
exercises to reduce muscle tension were formalized
in the 1930s, for example, and later refined as
part of the growing literature on systematic desensitization.
In this procedure, typically used to treat specific
phobias, a three-tep procedure is generally
adopted. First, the client learns to control his or her
somatic symptoms. Second, the therapist and client
develop a fear and avoidance hierarchy of 5 to 10 situations
that range from least to most anxiety-rovoking
in nature. Third, the client is gradually exposed to
these situations, using somatic control exercises to
assist approach and eventual habituation to the stimulus
(e.g., dog). The process is largely based on the
premise of classical conditioning, or learning by association.
Essentially, a fearful person learns to associate
relaxation, an incompatible response to fear, with
the previously phobic stimulus. Many studies over
several decades have documented the effectiveness of
systematic desensitization and somatic control strategies
for different clinical populations.


In more advanced treatment protocols for anxiety
disorders, progressive muscle relaxation and breathing
retraining are used in conjunction with other procedures.
In many cases, somatic control strategies are
learned with cognitive control strategies (e.g., cognitive
restructuring) as methods of controlling and managing
one's anxiety. Earlier sessions of therapy are
often devoted to learning and perfecting these strategies
in session and in real-ife situations. Later sessions
of therapy are often devoted to incorporating
these somatic and cognitive control strategies into
exposure-ased practices that vary in type and level
of difficulty. These strategies are meant to facilitate
exposure and act as coping methods so that one can
fully habituate to a phobic stimulus.


<b>RELEVANT TARGET POPULATIONS</b>


Somatic control exercises are most commonly used for
people with anxiety disorders, especially panic disorder
and agoraphobia, specific and social phobias, generalized
anxiety disorder, and acute stress and posttraumatic
stress disorder. From a diagnostic perspective,
the exercises can also be used for any problem that
involves high levels of tension or physiological arousal,
such as adjustment disorder or substance-elated disorder.
As mentioned earlier, applied tension is specifically
used for persons with blood-injection-injury phobia.
Somatic control exercises are also useful for those with
medical problems exacerbated by stress. This is especially
true for painful conditions such as those related
to cancer, burns, and other maladies. In addition, progressive
relaxation has been utilized in several studies
as a component for treating insomnia or related sleep
disturbances.


Stress management is also recommended for
people with Type A personalities or those who find
themselves in demanding and frequently upsetting life
circumstances. Stress management techniques often
include relaxation or meditation or medication as key

[p. <i>1049</i>]

<b>COMPLICATIONS</b>


A main complication of somatic control exercises is
that they will not be effective if a particular client does
not practice the procedures and use them in key situations.
In this case, obstacles to treatment must be fully
addressed. In addition, the procedures may have to be
modified or simplified for people or children with limited
cognitive or motor abilities or for those who worry
that the procedures will lead to social embarrassment.
Furthermore, several studies indicate that somatic control
exercises on their own are not highly effective
in treating people with anxiety disorders. Instead, the
exercises seem most useful in conjunction with exposure-based
practices. Even in more general stress management
programs, somatic control strategies are
recommended as only one component of many for
reducing stress.


<b>CASE ILLUSTRATION</b>


"Claire" was a 13-year-old multiracial female who
presented to a university-based clinic (with her
parents) for severe test and oral presentation anxiety.
Claire had entered middle school just 2 months earlier
and was still adjusting to rapid changes in classes,
workload, student diversity, and type of classroom
assignments. Although typically a very good student,
Claire seemed a bit overwhelmed by the frequency of
tests in her classes and by a new requirement in her
English class, oral presentations.


During the assessment, Claire and her parents indicated
that the girl had always been socially anxious to
a moderate degree and tended to stay with a few close
friends. Thus, her introversion was at odds with standing
alone in front of a large classroom of students and
speaking on a given topic. Claire's anxiety about tests
and oral presentations had progressed to the point
where she had begun to skip certain classes at school
and was now experiencing declining grades.


Claire's treatment involved a combination of
somatic and cognitive control strategies with exposure-based
practices in session and in real life. During
the first four sessions, Claire was instructed how to
ease her muscle tension and control her breathing in
such a way as to lower her considerable physiological
arousal. In addition, her thoughts in key anxiety-provoking
situations were explored, and her perfectionistic
tendencies and worries about catastrophic events
(e.g., complete humiliation) were addressed.


In the next four sessions of therapy, Claire was
instructed to practice different academically oriented
tasks in the therapist's office. These included practice
tests sent from her teachers as well as oral presentations
on topics assigned by the therapist. During each
practice, Claire was instructed to use her somatic and
cognitive control strategies before, during, and after
the task. Ratings of anxiety were taken throughout
each exposure and revealed increased habituation over
time. Indeed, Claire reached a point quickly where she
was able to take practice tests and give oral presentations
with little difficulty in session. Distractions were
later added to her exposures (e.g., larger audience,
more snickering, more noise), but she became adept at
handling these as well.


The final four sessions of therapy involved exposures
in real life, or in vivo, situations. Claire was
required to take makeup and regularly scheduled tests
at school and complete her oral presentations. She
experienced little problem with the examinations but
had substantial anxiety during her initial oral presentation.
Although that presentation did not go well, Claire
saw that the consequences were not terrible (e.g., no
one laughed). Her remaining oral presentations, while
not excellent, were completed without avoidance.


<i>Christopher A. Kearney</i>,


<i>Kelly Drake, and Lisa Linning</i>


<i><b>See also:</b> Applied Relaxation and Tension (Vol. III),
Biofeedback (Vols. I, II, &amp; III), Breathing Retraining
(Vol. I), Cue-Controlled Relaxation (Vols. I &amp; III), Panic
Control Treatment (Vols. I &amp; III), Progressive Muscular
Relaxation (Vols. I &amp; III), Relaxation Strategies (Vol. II),
Relaxation Training With Children (Vol. II)</i>


<b>Suggested Readings</b>


Carlson, C. R., &amp; Hoyle, R. H. (1993). Efficacy of abbreviated
progressive muscle relaxation training: A quantitative review
of behavioral medicine research. <i>Journal of Consulting and
Clinical Psychology, 61</i>, 1059-1067.


Kearney, C. A., &amp; Albano, A. M. (2000). <i>When children refuse
school: A cognitive-behavioral therapy approach/therapist's
guide</i>. San Antonio, TX: Psychological Corporation.


Kendall, P. C. (2000). <i>Cognitive-behavioral therapy for anxious
children: Therapist manual</i>. Ardmore, PA: Workbook.

[p. <i>1050</i>]

Lohaus, A., Klein-Hebling, J., Vogele, C., &amp; Kuhn-Hennighausen,
C. (2001). Psychophysiological effects of
relaxation training in children. <i>British Journal of Health
Psychology, 6</i>, 197-206.


Means, M. K., Lichstein, K. L., Epperson, M. T., &amp; Johnson,
C. T. (2000). Relaxation therapy for insomnia: Nighttime
and daytime effects. <i>Behaviour Research and Therapy, 38</i>,
665-678.


Ollendick, T. H., &amp; Cerny, J. A. (1981). <i>Clinical behavior therapy
with children</i>. New York: Plenum.


Ost, L. G., &amp; Sterner, U. (1987). Applied tension: A specific
behavioural method for treatment of blood phobia.
<i>Behaviour Research and Therapy, 25</i>, 25-30.


Stetter, F., &amp; Kupper, S. (2002). Autogenic training: A metaanalysis
of clinical outcome studies. <i>Applied Psychophysiology
and Biofeedback, 27</i>, 45-98.


Taylor, S. (2001). Breathing retraining in the treatment of
panic disorder: Efficacy, caveats, and indications. <i>Scandinavian
Journal of Behaviour Therapy, 30</i>, 49-56.

