<font size="4"><b>Twenty-Two</b></font>

I WAS invited to dinner at the Vanderbilt Hotel. The reason
seemed vague"a mutual friend" it was said. Toward the
end of the evening it came out that my host was a member
of that same organization that met behind the "red door" and
was of the impression that it might help me. I wasn't ready to
make any great decision, but I was trying to think constructively,
and our discussion, the questions I asked and the answers,
probably helped me considerably.


The accident had materially restored my religious faith. I
realized that one reason why the Peabody System, while it
had to a degree changed my habit patterns, had failed as any
permanent cure for alcoholism in me was that it had not
touched the spiritual side of rehabilitation. Donald C____emphasized
that discovery of a power in which he could place
his belief had become the dominating help in keeping him
permanently dry.


I read again the copy Donald had given me of Henry Drummond's
lectures, <i>The Greatest Thing in the World</i>, a book
of inspirational reading; as I studied it, I found it developing
in me a positive desire to be good and do good.


I began picking up a dollar here and there at incidental
jobs in New York. On one visit to the city I volunteered to
go when I could to the veterans' hospitals, working along
with the artists giving shows for convalescent boys. I found a
new kind of job, too, rather a peculiar job for a radio announcer,

[p. <i>265</i>]

In the course of this work I ran into Sid Rubin, a man
who had worked with me in other days; he was with an
agency now and put me on the track of a few jobs, making
recordings for small radio advertisers.


In the time I spent out at the lake, I got work as handyman
around a Christian Science rest home run by a lady whom
everyone called Hank, whose real name was Mrs. Mabelle
Elliott. From time to time as I repaired doors, windows, locks,
painted, and in general did what I could to help, Hank and
I had many constructive chats. As the weeks passed, all these
activities combined to give me a better hold on myself, with
the result that, although people I met in a business way in
New York often seemed surprised to see me still in the land
of the living because of the publicity given the train accident,
I felt well able to face them, present a pretty good appearance,
and hold my own in conversation.


On East Forty-sixth Street there was a firm called Biro &amp;
Wehde. Lou Biro, one of the partners, had been an artist on
the <i>Journal of Living</i> when I worked there for Mattie Rosenhaus.
I took to dropping in at Biro &amp; Wehde to rest a bit and
have a chat with Lou, who was very friendly and seemed
anxious to be helpful. I could use his phone to line up new
appointments, and report to him successes and failures.


One day Lou said, "Why don't you stay with my wife and
me when you have to come in to New York, and save yourself
so much commuting?" It was one of the finest things anybody
had ever done for me. The Biros had a nice apartment
in Jackson Heights, and other than the week ends I spent at
the lake, I stayed with them while I struggled to reinstate
myself in radio. I got one turndown after another but learned

[p. <i>266</i>]

I was in this frame of mind when I came out of a Madison
Avenue building, and as I waited for the traffic light to
change, I heard someone say, "Hello, Broke." I was greeted
by a radio producer I had known many years before, Charlie
S. I remembered that he had had trouble similar to my
own, becoming undependable, having all kinds of difficulty
keeping a job. But at a glance, I could see he looked happy
and prosperous. I asked him if he was working. "Oh, yes,"
he said, "I'm doing three or four things. By the way, what're
you doing this evening?" It was then about five thirty. I said,
"I don't know exactly; my evenings are about all the same.
I'm staying with Lou Biro; we might play cards, or go to a
movie, or something."


"Well then," said Charlie, "why don't you come along with
me tonight?"


"All right; where're you going?"


"Never mind, just come along." We walked over to Times
Square and took a subway to Forest Hills. We stopped in at
a restaurant, had dinner and a chat; as we left, he took my
arm and steered me to the Forest Hills Inn, through the
lobby, around to the right, into a large room where thirty or
more people were gathered. "These," said Charlie, "are our
fellow alcoholics." People were talking, in pairs or small
groups. After he had introduced me to several, he led me
over to a corner where we sat down. During dinner he had
told me a lot about good things that were happening nowadays
to him, how he had recaptured the faith of colleagues
in the radio field and was doing very well.


Sitting there in the corner, he told me the other side of
the story. When I had known him, he had been successful,
too, but he drank a lot, and it got so bad that he lost one
job after another until he just couldn't get work. His wife
left him. I could see that the world had been as black for
him then as it was to me in my worst moments.


Then Charlie found this group of alcoholicsanother
branch of the same organization I had read about. He had

[p. <i>267</i>]

The gavel sounded; the cliques broke up; everyone took
seats. As the meeting went along, I learned that everyone in
that room had been down and out at one time or another;
their problems were similar to mine, some worse, some not
so bad, but all caused by the same thing.


As I sat there, listening to men and women speak openly
of the lost years, of problems they had faced, I no longer felt
alone. By hard effort, and with the help of a power greater
than themselves, they had been able to stay away from alcohol
for twenty-four hours at a time; the days had accumulated.
Now many, like Charlie, had been happily sober for years,
back at their jobs, reinstated in society, with a new light in
their eyes, new buoyancy in their step.


I listened and I watched and I thought. I realized that here
I felt happy, happier than I had for years. It certainly wasn't
the place. I'd been in hundreds of hotels, large and small. So
it must be the people. Here I felt at home, accepted; no
longer did I have to keep part of my life secret; I was no
longer an outcast.


The meeting ended; people got together again in groups,
to have coffee and doughnuts while they chatted; some wandered
over to the piano and sang together. Here there was no
hush-hush; you were among people you could understand,
people who could understand you, and without making a
big fuss. I noticed that if one told some awful thing he or
she had done while drunk, someone else could top it by telling
something even more terrible; the important thing was
that now all of them could laugh about it. Ah, that was the
great thing, to be able to get these dreadful experiences of
the past out in the open and look at them <i>as things of the
past;</i> they didn't try to hide them; they laughed at them.


I couldn't laugh at my experiences, not yet. Inside, I knew
that miserable occurrences could still be in my future. But
the meeting gave me the will to try even harder. I met more
people, and right there three of those strangers offered me a

[p. <i>268</i>]

On the way home Charlie and I talked some more. "It's
simple," he remarked; "we join nothing, pay no dues, we
come and go as we wish, yet there's a great tie that binds us."


"All right, Charlie," I said, "what do I do next?"


"Simple, Broke. You want to stop drinking. O.K. First, we
admit that our drinking is out of our control, that it is interfering
with our happiness, our lives. Then we admit that a
higher power is ready to help us in our struggle for freedom
and happiness. In that knowledge we decide to do without a
drink for the next twenty-four hours, just twenty-four hours.
Then, when we get home, we read the book that you have
there under your arm. When we get a chance, we talk to
others in the group who have made it work. Then we come
back to the next meeting. There are other wonderful steps,
like holding no grievance against anyone, going to the people
we have wronged or to whom we owe money; we state that
we're trying to straighten up and fly right and are sorry for
what we have done; if and when we can, we pay a little on
what we owe. Later on, when we have found our footing and
are feeling stronger, maybe we'll tell others some of our experiences.
Then, when we have really accomplished something,
comes the most important step of all; this is called
the twelfth step, and it simply means going out and helping
the fellow who needs help, just as I'm trying to help you."

[p. <i>269</i>]

I had never been much for listening to people, but I listened
to Charlie; knowing what he'd been through and
watching him as he talked so matter-of-factly, I discovered
that it all made sense.


Once in a while the Biros and I would go out in their
little car for an airing or to visit a friend. The evening after
that meeting we took such a ride. It happened that it was
Yom Kippur, the Jewish Day of Atonement, the "first" day
of many dry, happy years that I have very good reason never
to forget. As we drove along, I was bubbling over with enthusiasm
and joy, and I told these friends about attending
my first meeting and the thoughts, the inspiration that had
come to me.


When they asked me about the other, earlier visit to a
similar meeting, down on Twenty-fourth Street, I told them
I guessed I had not been ready; I was too sure of myself,
headstrong, and arrogant. Some people who had been at that
meeting had felt certain I would fall again, because I had
said things and exhibited an attitude contradictory to the
whole trend of their way. But last night I had gone with
Charlie to this meeting with an open mind, in a spirit of
humility, ready to accept any help that might be offered.


As we drove that autumn evening, I felt the encouragement
of my friends, their belief, their joy in the fact that, after
long wandering and despair, I had found something to hold
onto; their supporting faith helped me in making the full
decision to follow this thing through, make it succeed.


From then on I went to those meetings religiously, twice a
week, both the open and the closed meetings, in Forest Hills.
In making my schedule I put those dates down first, and I
didn't let anything interfere with them. For twenty-four
hours at a time I did not take a drink.


Each day found me a bit stronger physically, mentally, and
spiritually, until I was really, not the old-time Brokenshire,
but a new and better Brokenshire, with verve, spirit, and the
honest joy of living.


Now when I was rebuffed at an agency I did not go away

[p. <i>270</i>]

In this confident mood I ran into another old-timer between
calls; his name was Douglas Storer, and his business
was handling talent. Many years before he had given me a
show, so he knew my former ability. He caught my new
frame of mind as soon as we met. "Why don't you come up
and use my office as your own?" he said. "I'll be glad to help
you in any way I can."


From that day on, when I called on radio people, I began
mentioning Doug Storer's name casually. They always had a
good word for him and his method of representation. When I
learned that he represented "Believe It or Not" Ripley and
was part of the General Amusement Corporation, headed by
Tom Rockwell, who handled some of the top artists and
bands in the business, I made a point of accepting Doug's
offer, and we became good friends.


A peculiar thing had happened to me. Notwithstanding my
long years of experience, now when I discussed possibilities
for work with Doug or anyone else, I had the feeling of being
a novice, a beginner; even after things developed to the point
where popular opinion placed me right back at the top of
my profession, I didn't have the <i>feeling</i> of success. When I
read in the papers that now my income was in six figures, I
felt as though I were reading about someone else; to this day
the feeling of affluence bypasses me.


It had perhaps always been true of me that new interests
and events erased the past. Whereas Doug Storer doubtless
thought of me as someone with whom he had worked before,
remembering the way I had done things, whether I had made
his particular show a success or a failure, in dealing with him
I had the illusion of doing so as a brand-new person, meeting
him for the first time; I carried over nothing of our past
associations.


He did not suggest in any way that I sign up with him; he
simply said he wished me great success, that he would do what
he could for me, and that I could use his office as my headquarters
whenever it would be useful.

[p. <i>271</i>]

The combination of my new experiences and this acceptance
by Doug made me feel so much better that I wanted to
convey my feelings to Eunice, talk over the whole situation,
where formerly that was one thing I shrank from doing.


When I went to the lake now, I started doing the many
things that needed doing around the place, and while I did
them, we talked, discussing the progress I had made thus far.
Some time before, a prize-winning cocker spaniel had been
given me by Dale Kennedy, one of my associates at the <i>Journal
of Living;</i> I had bred the spaniel, and a litter of pups was
now ready to be sold. Two that I sold in the neighborhood
enabled me to make a payment on the personal loan that had
helped to carry us through the lean days; I knew I could sell
the others to a pet shop in New York.


So when I made my next trip to the city, we made quite a
party of it, Eunice, the puppies, and I. Exciting thoughts
raced through my mind on the fifty-mile drive; perhaps now
I could begin repaying this patient woman for all the sadness,
heartbreaks, and tears that had been her lot for truly
standing by, "in sickness and health, for richer, for poorer.
..." If only this new spiritual method would continue to work
for me, perhaps she could spend the coming years in peace
and comfort, without the constant, gnawing worry of my
every absence, free of the "I told you so" glances of friends
and relatives, free of the grueling despair that is the lot of
the failure's wife.


For a bit as we drove along we harmonized together. The
puppies whined and barked at the sound, and we laughed together.
It was a good feeling, laughing together. We began
harmonizing our favorite for such occasions"I'm forever
blowing bubbles." I slowed down to enter Grand Central
Parkway. Eunice opened the glove compartment to get me a
cigarette and pulled out a newspaper forwarded to us from
Silver Springs, Maryland. Charley Kopeland, publicity representative
for Silver Springs, had been helpful to me in
many ways when we lived in Washington; he had sent this
paper so I could read his radio column on a new show called
"We Live Again," which featured Hope, Crosby, and many
big stars. Eunice read the column aloud to me. After a moment

[p. <i>272</i>]

I sold the puppies to a pet shop on Eighth Avenue, and
Eunice and I went over to Biro's office, where his wife Natalie
put in a series of telephone calls for us, which not only filled
up my time for the rest of the day and the following day, but
proved that a friend is the most valuable thing in the world
next to your health and peace of mind.


We found out that an old friend was working on the "We
Live Again" show. It was Jesse Butcher, and when I got in
touch with him, he said, "There's no reason under the sun
why you can't really go places this time. Everything you ever
had you've still gotyour characteristic manner of speaking,
your voice, your timing, your ingratiating manner. Probably
your talents have improved." Before he was through talking,
I was so heartened that I was ready to follow his suggestion.
He had been working on a war activities program and had
turned "We Live Again" over to WOR.


So I went to WOR, to say hello again to a lot of people I
had worked with in years gone by and, to my surprise, to
pick up a lot of mail that had been gathering dust in the mail
room, waiting for me.


What was even more to the point, I met the new executives
who now were running the station and the Mutual network.
Chief among these was my onetime competitor, Phillips Carlin,
who had left the announcing field and was now vice-president
of Mutual, in charge of programs. He told me that
the "We Live Again" program had been dropped as a program,
not only by Mutual but by the government agencies;
but he said he was glad I'd dropped in, that he'd been hearing
some nice things about me.


It may have been sheer coincidence, or it may have been
preordained that our activities should be pin-pointed, because
only a few days passed before I received a wonderful
telephone message from Douglas Storer's office, one that I
was to hear many times in ensuing months"Broke, you're
in!" Storer had been in to see Phillips Carlin, too. He had
sold Mutual a three-times-a-week program built on the lovely
singing voice of Anita Ellis and a five-piece orchestra. Doug

[p. <i>273</i>]

"Phil," he argued, "show me just one way you can lose!
Supposing you hire Brokenshire for a minimum fee. You'll
get reams of publicity because his name is still good and he
hasn't been on the air in New York in years; you'll work up
a big fat audience of his old admirers. So let's say he goes on
the air for the first showgreat. Then he goes on the second
show; he does a good job. Then for the sake of argument we'll
say that he comes in drunk on the third show and you can't
use him. So you get on the phone and call one of your staff
announcers, and lie fills in, and you fire Brokenshire. You've
still garnered priceless publicity for your station, and the
show has a good start. Show me one thing you can lose, and
I'll never mention Broke's name to you again."


Doug told me later that for a while there was absolute
silence in the office. Slowly Carlin swung around and faced
him, slapped his desk with the palm of his hand, and said,
"O.K., Doug, put him on the show."


The Anita Ellis show was to start around the first of February,
but by now my snowball was rolling faster and faster,
getting bigger and bigger. Even before the program with the
wonderful Anita started, Carlin put me on a show called "Do
You Need Advice?" which featured Jane Porterfield, writer
of a lovelorn column that had a large following. As announcer
to Jane Porterfield I worked five days a week. It was the scale
minimum pay per program, but five times scale still brings
in a pretty good week's salary.


Naturally when I started working again I left the Biro
household, but certainly not their affections. I took a cheap,
inside room at the Hotel Wentworth, on one of the side
streets in mid-town Manhattan, and carried on from there.
Walking back and forth each morning and evening, I noticed
a sign on West Forty-sixth Street that somehow piqued my

[p. <i>274</i>]

In a day or two I located the owner's representative and
put in a bid for the "loft," saying that I would use it for
residential purposes. I was able to make a deal and rented
the entire floor for a thousand dollars a year, payable
monthly.


A lot of my radio friends would have laughed to see me one
evening, pulling a huge commercial floor scrubber along the
Sixth Avenue paving. I had borrowed it from the WOR
porters, promising to bring it back at the same hour the
next night; I wheeled it along Sixth Avenue from Fortieth

[p. <i>275</i>]

I was again immersed in comeback days; but this time the
process, while slow, was steady and quiet, with little fanfare.
The first bit of publicity was seen January 17, 1945, in a little
inconspicuous corner on page 26 of <i>Variety</i>: "Brokenshire
joins web," it said; "Carlin hired his first new talent last
week, setting Anita Ellis, vocalist, formerly with the Blue,
for a 3-nights weekly spot. Norman Brokenshire will MC the
show. Carlin has also set Brokenshire, veteran announcer, for
Jane Porterfield's Do you need advice? session, aired across
the board at 11:15 a.m."


Amongst all the things I have done, that first Anita Ellis
show stands out in my mind as though it were yesterday.
Here were real artistsAnita herself, so sure, so confident, so
poised; and the musical group, at ease, rehearsed, and ready.


I was filled with inner turmoil, mingled joy and anxiety.
This was it! The Porterfield show was nothing, opening and
closing announcements; this was real radio; the art lay in
building up this wonderful Ellis personality, this girl who
sang a song with her heart. I must myself feel and understand
her message, my voice must convey the mood, which she
could then hold and develop until every listener loved her
song as she loved it. Then would come that equally important
moment when her song ended. I must say exactly the right

[p. <i>276</i>]

Oh, I knew so well what I must do and how it must be
done! But in those seconds of stand-by, while waiting I grew
tense. It had been so long since I had done fine work. Had
Carlin made a mistake? Had I lost the touch? Had wounds
of heart and soul made callous the tenderness that enabled
me to express the lights and shades of delicately changing
moods? Even if I remembered the art, could I do it now?
Would they expect too much of me? This was the turmoil
and the anxietybut the joy was there, too. I loved Anita's
singing. I was glad to be on the air with her. This was <i>network</i>
radio; that mike was <i>live</i>. Out there were my friends,
ready and waiting to welcome me back. The tenseness tightened
my throat; I was not free. This <i>was</i> it! The light flashed.
Phil Carlin, Doug Storer, so many were checking. <i>How do
you do, ladies and gentlemen, how do you do</i>.


It was Brokenshire all right, but it was Brokenshire <i>trying
too hard!</i>


Mail! Nice mail, warm, generous, interested mail, told me
I had not been forgotten. The American Theatre Wing asked
me to be master of ceremonies of the Fashion Parade for the
Armed Services. It was to be held in the Grill of the Roosevelt
Hotel.


This was the first public-appearance job of any importance
that I had done in many a moon in New York. These were
the things that counted now.


Another sign that the right people were placing confidence
in me came when I was selected by Mutual to do the closed-circuit
talks. This is a method of informing the managers of
affiliated stations in advance of coming programs. It was a
pep talk over the hookup wires to each station, but not on
the airan inside job.


That night the meeting in Forest Hills was pure joy for
me. I had been with them long enough to tell my own story.
I was the second speaker. I told my story simply and softly.
"My name is Norman Brokenshire, and I am an alcoholic...."
How wonderful to be able to say that in public. I went on to
tell things that I had thought I would always have to keep

[p. <i>276</i>]

Yes, things had started up again for me, all right. But the
comeback trail is a lot longer and harder than anyone who
has tried it likes to admit. Humpty-Dumpty found out how
easy it is to roll off the shelf, how difficult to put oneself
together again. True, I was on the air, I had a showcase. Yet
WOR and Mutual had never had great problems with me;
it was NBC and CBS that I had to convince before I could
really say I was back.

