Transcript of Audio File:
______________________________________________________________________________
BEGIN TRANSCRIPT:
CLIENT: Hi, how are you?
THERAPIST: Good, thank you. [00:01:05]
CLIENT: Sorry I'm a few minutes late. (sighs) How are you? I already asked that. (sighs) Sorry, I'm a little bit - we had a friend in town this weekend from California, who was staying with our friends Emma (ph) and Jay (ph). So we ended up staying out there most of the - or the whole weekend. We got (ph) home for an hour (inaudible) and, so, I'm a little tired. But this one - this girl and I have kind of a history of - (inaudible) - its not a terrible history but she - we were friends in California and just friends - she was one of just a group of girls, like six of us or so. And she was there. [00:02:00]
She's a really nice - she's a really nice girl but then parts of her personality just rub me the wrong way. And, when I got engaged, she was one of the only ones still in California at the time. So I - (inaudible) from California and, so, her history also with her boyfriend is she's been with him for seven years and she's been begging him to get engaged for the last six. And it's a very public battle and it's very - its not - its awkward. And, so, when I got engaged, after being with Chris (ph) for only two years, and - or a year and a - whatever - yes, a little over - it was two years, [somewhere in there] (ph).
She had been with her boyfriend for a few more and she, immediately, when I told her that I was engaged, asked herself to be, or said she was, a bridesmaid. Her reaction was, "Bridesmaid, bridesmaid," and pointing to herself, which I just said yes to because I was so in the moment and I just agreed to it and, then, it was awkward the whole rest of the time. [00:03:10] She was really controlling about her ideas for my wedding, I think, because she was kind of anxious for her own and [putting them on me] (ph).
And it was a serious - the year and a half I was engaged and she was in my wedding, was a strain on our relationship, our friendship. And, then, it ended with her booking the wrong plane ticket - the (ph) tickets for the wrong weekend to go to New Hampshire for the wedding and having to change that. And, then, in the end, she forgot her bridesmaid's dress. And, so, she wasn't in the wedding, which was all very weird. And, after that - leading up to it I kept saying, "I can't wait until this wedding's over because I don't want to be friends with this woman anymore. She drives me nuts and I can't believe she's even in our wedding (inaudible) but let's just get through this. And, then, afterwards we can go our separate ways." [00:04:04]
And, then, the thing happened where she forgot the dress and, in her mind, that was what ended our friendship; that she forgot the dress. I didn't care about the dress. I was, actually, a little bit relieved because I was happy to not have her in all of our photos. (chuckles) But, then, the next year she was in Emma's (ph) wedding. And, so, we had to just go through it all again, planning things for Emma (ph), and there was a lot of tension, which resulted in some fighting and awkwardness for Emma (ph).
And, then, it's always - it's awkward for Emma (ph) because it's these two girls who - I think of Emma (ph) as one of my best friends and Dawn (ph) thinks of Emma (ph) as her very best friend. And we're really close to Emma (ph) and Jay (ph) because Chris (ph) and Jay (ph) are best friends and Emma (ph) and I are very close friends. And they live here and we live here. And, so, I always hear this little competition with Dawn (ph), where - [00:05:02] Because I do to; I get jealous sometimes that Emma (ph) handles Dawn (ph) with, sort of, these kid gloves and just tells her - I don't know - treats her in this way where I feel like, "First of all, why are you doing that? Second of all, I hope you don't - "
I don't know, just these weird things. And - but there's this level of competition there and it makes me a little bit uncomfortable and just - it's just a very, very weird friendship. It's something that doesn't really affect my life on a day to day basis but, when they come for a full weekend, we end up spending the whole time together because (pause) - I don't know, it's very weird. Because it's still fun; it still reminds us of when we in California and (pause) - [but there's things] (ph) - it's the - [00:06:02]
The thing with her boyfriend for seven years and these public - you know, there was a big screaming match on Friday night and we were all a part of it. And, then, it's like (sighs) - and then the girls have to stomp out of wherever we are and we have to - it's just this whole, big thing and it bothers me. And I sit there and I tell her very honestly (chuckles) like, "What are you doing? Why are you doing this to yourself? There's so much out there for you. That you're still so young and this man isn't - (inaudible at 00:06:39) already doing this."
And I'm very honest with her and, then, she wakes up the next morning and she doesn't remember any of it because she was blacked out. I didn't like - and, then, I'm so frustrated because I, obviously, didn't realize at the time she was blackout (ph) drunk. But, I think - I guess, I see a little bit of how I used to be, in her, and it drives me nuts. (sighs) I'm so, "Why are you doing this to yourself?" And I get frustrated because I feel like I used to do - I used to do those things and (sighs) - [00:07:13]
And she doesn't want any help. She doesn't want to change. And, so, that makes me think I don't want to be friends with her because there's no - I don't know - (pause [00:07:29] to 00:07:32) It's very interesting. (sighs) Yes, and then this weekend - so I finally had my doctor's appointment with my doctor on Friday for my - with my primary care physician, for my stomach issues. And, so, I was - but, then, I was drinking this weekend with my friends and, then, I beat myself up about it. [00:08:03]
And, then, on - yesterday, I was feeling terrible anxiety all day long, just all day, terrible, and not - I don't know if it was related, I just felt uncomfortable the whole time. And I just felt - I had this, like, tingling in my cheeks, which was weird. I think it was generally (ph) because I had been laughing - we were playing lots of games (inaudible) and I'd been laughing so much, I realized afterwards. But it's like any sensation that's different makes me crazy and really anxious and nervous and its all I can think about.
When (ph) we went on the train to go to this market and I was just tense the whole time, having - it wasn't an anxiety attack but it was right on the cusp; I could feel - I knew - I just kept watching the stops and, you know - I finally said something to them, halfway through the train ride, I just said, "I don't know why train rides make me so anxious. I'm so anxious right now." (chuckles) [00:09:04] And it made me feel a little bit better because, then, you know - I was saying, like, "I hate feeling enclosed and trapped in here and if I need to get off, I can't get off." And, so, as soon as I started to say that I was really anxious, it made me feel a little bit better. But the whole day I was anxious and I just was thinking to myself, "I can't drink like this anymore."
I mean, we were just - we went out Friday night and, then, Saturday we got - we had a cocktail during the middle of the day and then we were - went home and barbequed and, then, we were just drinking. We were barbequing and playing games and, yesterday, I just thought, "I can't - why do I do this to myself?" Because I hate it; I hate the feeling the next day. And I hadn't felt like that in weeks because I hadn't been drinking. And I don't know if it's genuinely being hung over that makes me feel anxious or if it's that I make myself feel anxious because I'm mad at myself for drinking. I don't know. [00:10:11]
And, then, I was like, "Well, I read this that (ph) metabolizing alcohol causes paranoia in the brain; that's what it is. I'm just metabolizing the alcohol and I'm feeling paranoid. And it's okay." And, so - but that makes it worse, for some reason, because I just think, "Yes, but you are feeling - " and then I tell myself that I'm - that I am feeling anxious because I'm hung over. And instead of making that - making me feel better about it, it makes me feel more anxious because that's what I should be feeling. (sighs) (pause [00:10:45] to 00:10:56)
And I just have all - I think I just have all these issues surrounding (ph) drinking. [00:11:01] And I added to them with my issues with my stomach because that was something that I know I can control and I'm not controlling it. And it's making my stomach worse and, then, I get really mad at myself. (sighs) (yawns) (pause [00:11:25] to 00:11:41) I think that this - these last few weeks have been really good, though, because it gave me a chance to see how much better I feel.
I used to just - Id look forward to weekends because I wanted to go out with my friends. And the last few weeks, I was looking forward to the weekends because I was getting rest and I was waking up early and getting chores done and having full weekends. That felt great. [00:12:10] And it was just a totally - I think that there is a happy medium. It's harder to strike when I used to be this one - I used to be going out every Friday and Saturday and all of my friends are still going to do that. And I want to be with them, too, but I need to modify it for myself.
I need to just, you know, not get drunk every Friday and Saturday. I can go out and I can have two drinks and be fine because the - it's just not worth it for me to - Id just ruin the whole next day otherwise. (pause [00:12:59] to 00:13:08) And I did not like that this weekend. It drove me crazy.
THERAPIST: It sounds like you were worried something was wrong.
CLIENT: I was worried something was wrong? Yes, I was - I was - when I - when I feel like - I always feel like something's going wrong. I always feel like - because I always feel like I'm going to faint or - I don't know what I'm worried about but the whole time I'm always worried that something is going wrong. I feel weird, that's what - the whole time I'm thinking, "I feel really weird." Its like, "No shit, you feel weird; you're hung-over." But the whole time I feel like, "Oh, my God, what is this tingling in my cheeks? I'm really lightheaded." (inaudible) but, when I'm hung-over, I always feel like something's going wrong with my body that I'm not going to be able to control. [00:14:01]
And I'm going to either faint or I (chuckles) - when people are detoxing they have seizures (chuckles) - for some reason, that - I'm not detoxing from an alcohol dependency but, for some reason, that always sticks in my head. Like, "Oh, my God, I feel like I can't look at things close up." I just - I have all this weird paranoia that something terrible is going to happen to me when I'm - It's just - it's kind of - there's no basis for it. The worst thing that's ever happened to me is I've fainted. And it's because I make myself so worked up. I guess I'm anxious and so worked up and then I faint. I mean, that's only happened twice but -
THERAPIST: [So you've] (ph) fainted? [00:15:03]
CLIENT: Yes. One of the times wasn't really - I've only fainted twice - once (ph) - they we were both related to the train, also. I was - one time I was - I'd been out with friends who were visiting and I had to go to work the next day at my job in (inaudible). And we'd stayed up so late. And I woke up the next morning and took a vitamin on an empty stomach and walked to the train. And I was at the train, feeling terrible, but knew I had to go to work. And I fainted on the train on my way to work.
And, then, the next time I had gotten an IUD placed and I was feeling fine. And, actually, the doctor said, "Rest for a minute." And I said, "I'm feeling fine. I can go." And I got up and left and I fainted on the train - on my train ride home. [00:16:02] So this train, I think, freaks me out also because both the times that I've fainted, I've been alone and on the train. And I think I just have that association.
THERAPIST: [The being alone part]? (ph)
CLIENT: Yes, but it's not comforted when [I'm with other people.] (ph) It's a little bit better because I can distract myself with conversation and stuff but it's not - it's not comforted. [I'm thinking about when] (ph) I'm alone on the train. I was alone, I guess - I was just saying before that I was alone when I fainted and I don't know why that's valid, or important. Well, there was another time I was on the train in Chicago and I knew I was going to faint again. I was with my best friend, Chrissie (ph), and she's really tiny. She (inaudible) all the time because she doesn't eat. (chuckles) [00:17:06]
And, so, I was saying to her, "I'm going to faint. I can feel it and its coming on." And she knew what to do and, so, she - we got off the train, she sat me on a bench, and then ran and got a ginger ale. And, then, as soon as I drank the ginger ale, I felt much better and I was fine. And we rested a few minutes in our spot (ph). And, so, I guess, maybe - [I'm, kind of,] (ph) feeling like when I'm with other people, someone else can take the reins. (pause [00:17:33] to 00:17:44) And I was hung-over that day. It's what - I just - I don't know - I don't know what it (sighs) - I don't know -
THERAPIST: Does it make you anxious to talk about it? [00:18:01]
CLIENT: Yes, I feel defensive. I feel like - I feel like (pause) - like I have to defend myself, like I'm - Well, all my friends are drinking as much or more than I am, why is it - why am I having all this - these issues surrounding it? And I feel like by thinking about it so much, like making such an issue, it is an issue.
And I've adjusted to (ph) certain parts of my behavior that bother me, like I don't drink too much that I'm doing things that are inappropriate anymore. I mean, I haven't really been drinking much so - but, I mean, the last few times - I'm not doing - that behavior doesn't really exist anymore but it's just the whole - I still have this whole feeling surrounding drinking that I beat myself up for because, I think, I just associate it with something terrible and something that, I guess, my dad does. [00:19:22]
And its, I don't know - something that you should feel ashamed about, that you have to be really cautious of and make sure you're not drinking too - you know, just being so cautious of make sure you're not drinking too much, make sure you're not drinking too much, make sure you're not drinking too much; make sure you don't like this too much. Make sure this isn't - that's - I feel like that's what it is, make sure you don't like this too much and make sure that you feel miserable about a part of it in some way. (pause [00:19:49] to 00:20:04)
Because I even feel weird talking about it with you, like you're going to judge me and think that I'm - even when I say that I go out with my friends and that we get drunk two nights in a row, that you're going to judge me and think that that's inappropriate and that that's unhealthy and that I'm unhealthy. Do you know what I mean? And, so, I even feel weird talking to you, as a professional, and I'm not - kind of, obviously, not a professional. (chuckles) But as somebody who would help - who would - that you would tell me that I needed - that I needed to stop or that I needed to go seek treatment or that I needed to - I even feel weird talking to you about it because there's that aspect of (pause) - I don't know - [00:21:01]
THERAPIST: Well, I think, that it could have been worse because I [could say, "Oh, this is a problem and you better do something about that] (ph) ."
CLIENT: Yes, and I - and that's a really big fear of mine. Because if somebody who is anybody told me that I needed - I had a really big problem, and it surrounded drinking, I would feel terrible about myself and, especially, somebody in your position. If you told me that, I would feel terrible about myself. (pause) But it's not - I don't know - and, so, then I feel the need to say, "Because (ph) all my friends do it." (chuckles) That doesn't make it any better; it doesn't make it any different at all. (pause) [00:21:51]
Because it's only - I don't know - it doesn't matter how much I'm drinking, it matters that I have all these issues surrounding drinking. (pause [00:22:11] to 00:22:23) And part of me just doesn't really want to drink anymore at all. And, then, the other part of me just doesn't want to be the weirdo on the sidelines while they're all having fun together and I'm different. And - but I kept thinking that all weekend, like, "Why - I don't even like this. I don't - I'm not having fun. This isn't - " It's like I have fun once I'm a little drunk because then I'm drunk and whatever. But the whole time I was thinking, "I know that I'm not going to be happy tomorrow. Why am I doing this right now if I'm not going to like myself tomorrow?" [00:23:08]
And I just don't want to be - I just don't want to be different, I guess. That's so stupid. (inaudible) - (pause [00:23:22] to 00:24:10) My dad called for the first time, that I can remember, in a year. He called me last week, which I ignored his call. And, then, just didn't call him back. And I haven't called him back. And I don't feel bad about it. I, actually, totally forgot about it until I was thinking about it this weekend and I told Chris (ph). And I just don't feel bad. I'm really pissed at him. I'm really (pause) - and I don't want to call and say, "How are you?" and get a big, bullshit answer. Because he was feeding me a bunch of lies when I was in Georgia about how he was really working the program and how he's been reading a bunch of, you know, A.A. books. [00:25:07]
And he had just been drinking that whole time, all a bunch of crap. And I don't want to call him and hear any of his crap. And, so, yes - I just don't - I'm not calling him back. [Listen to me] (ph), I'll probably call him back sometime this week, honestly. But the difference is I don't feel guilty about it like I used to. I would have, before, beat myself up about not calling him back and felt really bad. And said (ph), "He's lonely and he's by himself and he's reaching out to you. You need to call." And I just don't feel like that anymore. I just don't. I just can't care about him like that. [00:26:02]
But I used to think that me feeling this way wouldn't mean me still holding onto anger, which part of it, it is; part of me is still angry. But I'm not holding onto this need for him to provide something that he can't provide. And that doesn't really exist anymore. So it's like, "This isn't in your power. You don't have the capacity to deliver the things that I am looking for. And I'm just not looking for that from you, at least, right now." (pause)
THERAPIST: How does it feel to feel differently?
CLIENT: Great. Fantastic. I feel this - I feel lighter. I feel like this isn't something I carry around with me and that I'm just not looking for him anymore. I'm not - I [feel right] (ph) [00:27:15] I still worry about getting certain phone calls and I still think - I'm always going to be upset to hear about what certain things are happening with him. And I'm - So, I don't think, I'm going to stop feeling upset about those things. I don't think I'm going to not be upset if I hear that he's going to treatment or he's relapsed or he's - those things are always going to make me upset, I think.
Maybe it won't, but it feels like I'm always going to feel upset about those things. But, I don't know, something changed [through that trip] (ph), where it was really good to feel safe around him. [00:28:11] I - when we were there, it was the first time I didn't feel - I felt like I needed to be on guard - I needed to protect myself a little bit but not in this way - I didn't feel totally open and exposed and vulnerable like anything could happen. I felt like things were pretty - with him, were really predictable or really - he was engaging. There was something about that trip.
And, then, I think, that the fact that I found out afterwards that he was totally full of shit and, I mean, totally lied to my face every day that we were there (chuckles), was almost more healing for me. Because it was like, "Yes, that was a great time but he's not this steady (ph), pretend person that you know." [00:29:06] Because, when I left Georgia, he was this fake person - this totally different person in my head. "Oh my God, there's this new guy here. There's this new guy." And, then, I found out he was drinking and I was like, "No, that's still him and everything still makes sense."
And it was almost better because I could realign everything, like (pause) - even when he gave me what I thought I wanted, this sober dad, I still - that didn't make me feel like (pause) - I don't know. (pause) Yes, I can't even explain it. I just don't have the same need for him anymore, the same - I don't know. [00:30:05]
THERAPIST: When that didn't make you feel what were you going to - you said, "Even if I - even when I thought I had a sober dad, it didn't make me feel..."
CLIENT: It didn't - it didn't fill this - him being sober didn't fill or repair anything from before. It didn't wipe that away because there was no - with it, didn't come this whole like, "I'm sorry for what happened and for the way that I acted and for how I've treated you in the past and for the relationship (inaudible)." That didn't happen and that's not going to happen. And those things, and that behavior, and those memories, aren't going to go away; none of that's going to be gone ever.
And, even if he one day gets sober and is sober, that would be fine and that would be great. And I would be happy for him to have a healthy lifestyle but, for me, it's not going to change and alter everything from the past. [00:31:09] And, so, I have to realize that those two things aren't connected. And, for me, they were so connected before, like it could change everything. And it's just not going to change everything. And that's just okay. I don't - I don't - I don't know - I would love to have a dad who called me and asked me how my job was and asked me how my friends were and asked, you know, what I was into. I would love that; I don't have that.
And I'm not going to ever have that. And, even when he was sober, I didn't really have that. Even when I thought he - because he wasn't sober. (chuckles) So, when he called me last week, it just felt like more bullshit. Like, "Why am I going to wait - " A year ago it would have felt like, "Oh my God, I'm going to have that dad. I'm going to have that dad." And I just don't feel like that anymore. [00:32:12]
THERAPIST: This is quite a realization.
CLIENT: Yes, I think I always knew that but I didn't want to admit it.
THERAPIST: Well, it seems very freeing because it's like you can move on with your life, without waiting for something that will never come to pass.
CLIENT: Exactly, and it still hurts. It's the thing that I always thought would be different when I was - like it wouldn't hurt. And it still does hurt but that's okay. Nothings ever going to go away but, the reality of the circumstance is, this is the hand that I was dealt. And, so, I have fulfillment in a lot of other ways. My in-laws are great in that way. I have a fantastic father-in-law, who is interested and engaged, and wants to hear about what I do. [00:33:07]
And I have - you know, I have other outlets that provide me something close to - you know, it's like I can get what I need from other places and I don't need to rely on, [or look for] (ph) him, anymore. So it has to just be okay. (pause from [00:33:29] to 00:33:40)
THERAPIST: So do you feel like your drinking is some sort of a remnant of that?
CLIENT: Yes, probably. (pause from [00:33:48] to 00:33:53) Like it - I wouldn't (ph) want to drink to just erase whatever - to be different, to feel different, to be a different person. [00:34:03] And, yes, to be - to just be fun and have fun. And, yes, it reminds me of - I guess, this big mask that I used to put on and I don't like it, really. (pause) I think it just, you know - I just - all those associations are so intertwined for me; it's all just - it's all just right there together. And it's really hard to pull those things apart and just see that I can make my own rules and there doesn't have to just be one, concrete association. [00:35:00]
And that - (pause) and that, even, I don't know - because - oh, I had another conversation that I wanted to (inaudible). I don't know, I think that because I've always been seen as - or I've always thought that I was seen by my peers as somebody who was out of control with their drinking. For me, I associated that with looking like my dad. But, then, that's who I was in those situations. I drank and I got kind of crazy. And I - the only two options I saw were because - the only option I saw growing up was to drink or not to drink. There's these two extremes, either be drunk or sober. [00:36:04]
And don't just sit and like - have a glass of wine, go and meet friends for a baseball game and have a couple beers and have a - I'm having a really hard time rewriting those rules for myself. And just - and just allowing myself to - because, if I am totally honest, when I start drinking, I don't want to stop, usually. And that really scares me and that makes me nervous. I do have a hard time opening a bottle of wine and Ill have just a glass but, if I have two glasses, I then want to drink the whole bottle. And it's really hard for me and I had (ph) to really, really work on just saying - just stopping myself and just saying, "You don't - that's enough." It's the same thing with my eating. I just overindulge to the point of unhappiness. [00:37:00]
THERAPIST: When [you have] (ph) two glasses of wine, what's appealing about finishing the bottle?
CLIENT: Because now I'm buzzed and I want to keep drinking (chuckles) because I want to be drunk. And I just want to keep drinking.
THERAPIST: You wanted to be drunk because what - what feeling are you trying to get?
CLIENT: I'm trying to erase all the thoughts. My anxiety is gone, my - I'm trying to get - I'm trying to relax, I guess, or - it depends on the context. If I'm just sitting at home watching a movie or whatever, I'm trying to relax. If I'm out with friends, I'm trying to have fun. And, so - but what - inevitably, what happens is I, usually, am drunk and then I say something stupid or I'm combative. I say something that I regret. You know, something bad happens instead of what I was trying to achieve. [00:38:14]
And I'm just trying to really remember that and focus on that, which is - you go to a place, sometimes, that isn't good for you. (pause [00:38:27] to 00:38:35) [Because that's the] (ph) whole thing about drinking; as soon as you start drinking, everything gets a little bit harder to remember.
THERAPIST: So does it feel like, without alcohol, it's hard to relax and it's hard to have fun?
CLIENT: Yes, I - that is, kind of, the thing, (ph) too. I would go out with my friends when they were all drinking and I wasn't. And I was thinking, "I'm a lot less fun. I'm not as funny. I'm not as quick-witted. I'm not as - " [00:39:02] I do remember thinking that, when I wasn't drinking and they were drinking. And, yes, it is harder. It's harder in those - the thing is, after not drinking for a few weeks, I realized that I didn't need to relax. I was already feeling relaxed because I was just feeling better. I was feeling just better.
I was feeling better about myself and I've had more energy because - in part, because I've been exercising (inaudible) But I didn't need something to relax from; I wasn't looking for something to help me relax because I was already relaxed. Not all the time; sometimes (ph) I just wanted a glass of wine but (pause) - [it did] (ph), definitely, feel less fun. So [that's one thing] (ph). [00:40:02]
THERAPIST: Do you feel like you're having less fun or you're less entertaining?
CLIENT: I'm less entertaining. And I'm less a part of the group. I'm not - everyone is doing this thing together; everybody is having fun; everybody is, you know - and I'm over here.
THERAPIST: This comes up in so many areas of your life. Everybody's over here and you're over here.
CLIENT: Yes, and I feel like that's one way where I can just still be here with everybody. If I go out and I'm drinking too, then I'm having fun with everybody and we're all doing this thing together.
THERAPIST: And, so, you feel less like an outsider?
CLIENT: Yes, because I have this problem that they don't have. (pause) [00:41:02] So that's hard and just, kind of, confusing because (pause) I don't want that to be a problem of mine but it is. And I don't want to make myself feel like more of an outsider but I want to feel good and I want to feel happy. And, if doing something that makes me feel included, doesn't make me happy then I shouldn't do it, even if at the cost of feeling different or feeling on the outside of something everyone else is included in. (pause [00:41:56] to 00:42:06)
I've just been thinking, this last week, "What if I were a person who just doesn't drink anymore? That would be kind of nice. That would be - I want to just, maybe, be a person who doesn't drink." Because I feel like it (ph) carries all this baggage with me and all this weight. (pause [00:42:25] to 00:42:48) But I don't ever want anyone to tell me that I should do that. I never want someone to tell me that I need to do that. that's the other end of it. (pause [00:42:55] to 00:43:18)
THERAPIST: It sounds like, in that case, it would feel, like, constraining (ph) or, maybe, depriving.
CLIENT: Yes, exactly.
THERAPIST: Like you're being too indulgent?
CLIENT: Yes, exactly. "You had a little too much. (inaudible) need to control that for you because you can't do it yourself." And I want to be able to just - well, I want to be in control because I like to. And, maybe, I don't want other people to tell me that I've, yes, been too indulgent. [00:44:00]
THERAPIST: Because that's really shameful.
CLIENT: (inaudible) There's a lot - I don't know - there's so many easy sounding solutions to these problems.
THERAPIST: Like what? Like stop drinking, in this case?
CLIENT: No. Well, I think, that's the root. that's, actually, not that easy.
THERAPIST: (inaudible) the easy solution?
CLIENT: The easy solution is drink moderately, drink to not get drunk. Drink - [feeling good is] a difference. Go out and have a beer and stop. [00:45:01]
THERAPIST: If it (ph) were so easy, wouldn't you do that?
CLIENT: No kidding, right? That's the problem, is that it sounds so easy. (inaudible)
THERAPIST: (inaudible) - I will see you on Wednesday (ph) (inaudible) -
END TRANSCRIPT
