<font size="4"><b>26: Therapy with Men in Health-Care Settings</b></font>
[p. <i>372</i>]

<b>LaFaye C. Sutkin
Glenn Good</b>


The stereotype of the male in our
society calls for acceptance of injury and illness with courage and stoicism.
To the extent that male patients expect to preserve this image, the health-care
setting imposes severe threat. Cries of pain, tears of frustration, and
honest expressions of fear are frequently seen as unacceptable. Male
patients may employ alternative behaviors to secure the attention and care
that might have been elicited by more direct expressions of feelings. A
prominent alternative to direct need and feeling expression is an exaggeration
of physical symptoms and an escalation of medical complaints.
The male patient often views the presentation of needs in terms of an
"objective" external reality as more acceptable (Eisenberg, Falconer, &amp;
Sutkin, 1981).


In fact, the health-care setting poses many threats to the accustomed
roles of men. In accepting admission to a hospital, patients may feel
stripped of control, robbed of status, and forced into a dependent role. The
illness that precipitated admission, along with culturally inculcated
attitudes toward hospitalization, are apt to leave patients feeling fearful,
anxious, and depressed. Male patients may employ a variety of coping
strategies to deal with the abrupt emotional challenges and role changes of
illness. Some of these strategies are adaptive and assist them in feeling more
secure and more in charge of the situation, while other strategies
exacerbate the situational stresses of male patienthood, and may threaten
health or even life (Eisenberg et al., 1981).


The majority of patients eventually adjust to the demands of the health-care
setting and accept their physical condition as they come to understand

[p. <i>373</i>]

It is essential that a male medical patient referred to a mental health
professional be evaluated in the context of his physical condition as well as
his environment, that is, the hospital. A full appreciation of the interactions
of both of these factors promotes the development of most appropriate
treatment plans. Although long-term psychotherapy may occasionally be
indicated, most often the interventions required of health psychologists are
brief, and at times may not even involve direct contact with the patient
(Tefft &amp; Simeonsson, 1979).


This chapter will describe health behaviors commonly encountered in
male patients and the demands and pressures imposed on patients by the
medical environment. Subsequently, methods male patients employ to
cope with iatrogenic (caused by medical treatment) psychosocial maladies,
the implications of mental health referral, and counseling/therapy
approaches will be discussed. The chapter focuses on male medical patients
who may come to the attention of mental health services due to their maladaptive
coping strategies; little attention will be given to those patients who
promptly and successfully cope with stress, illness, and hospitalization.


<b>Health Behaviors of Men</b>


A major facet of traditional male
socialization is the avoidance of vulnerability, particularly emotional
vulnerability. Thus the male patient who has been subjected to such
socialization avoids asking that his emotional needs be met. Although
unable to communicate his hurt, loneliness, fear, or desire to be held and
nurtured, such a patient is no less likely to have such needs. Traditional
men often feel more comfortable seeking medical attention than mental
health services. Complaints of back pains, headaches, or chest pains may
be viewed as legitimate avenues for obtaining attention. Moreover, for the

[p. <i>374</i>]

Those traditional men, however, who continue to "tough it out,"unable
to communicate their needs or their emotional pain, may suffer long-term
consequences of a more serious nature. Continuous arousal of the body's
stress responses often leads to irreversible physical damage and to the
development of chronic illnesses, such as coronary artery disease, ulcerative
colitis, and perhaps reduced resistance to cancer. Potentially reversible
physical manifestations of constricted emotions and stress may also occur,
such as reduced resistance to infection resulting in chronic "colds" or flu,
allergies, asthma, and migraine headaches (Stone, Cohen, &amp; Adler, 1980).
Other men attempt to cope with the stresses of life in a manner consistent
with the "strong, silent" image, resorting to the socially sanctioned
anesthetic, alcohol. Chronic use/abuse of alcohol to manage stress
multiplies the psychosocial stressors and may itself result in multiple health
problems, for example, hypertension, gastritis, cardiac myopathy, cirrhosis,
and dementia.


<b>Demands and Pressures
Imposed on the Male Patient
by the Medical Setting</b>


Preceding descriptions of the traditional
male in this chapter, as well as in other chapters, suggest the
probability that medical illness and hospitalization will produce extensive
ramifications. The very nature of hospitals almost instantly imposes a
"patient" role on admitted individuals. The process of becoming a patient
requires that the person "voluntarily" surrender rights normally taken for
granted by adults and most children. Perhaps the most efficient method for
conveying this experience is a representative account of a patient's
experience upon hospitalization.


Typically, disorders that are sufficiently serious to result in hospitalization
are also sufficiently serious to provide some level of anxiety and
depression. Thus it is with some level of emotional stress that the patient
who is able to communicate is subjected to admission process. Throughout
the admission and subsequent hospital experience, it is likely that he will be

[p. <i>375</i>]

Eventually, the patient will be transferred from the admitting section to
the medical or surgical ward. The patient will be given a pair of pajamas
(regardless of the time of day) into which he is expected to change. He will
be given a room, usually with a roommate not of his choosing. He will be
told when and what he may eat and drink. Depending on the patient's
condition, he may be required to depend on nursing staff for attendance
over bodily functions that he has controlled since he was toilet trained. In
addition, he may be forced to permit a stranger to bathe him and change his
clothes.


Typically, a patient is protected, during hospitalization, from the
necessity of making a variety of "trivial" decisions, such as when to get up,
when to go to bed, when to have visitors, and when to take food or
medications. More significant decisions may be removed from patient
control as well, since often the information needed to formulate decisions
regarding his care is withheld. Although most of the hospital personnel
appear to own the privilege of collecting information from the patient, the
role of "patient" precludes inquiry of staff, even in issues concerning the
status of the patient's health. Although many of the above procedures are
necessary or expedient for hospital operation, they do tend to strip the
patient of a sense of control, status, and independence.


Superimposed on the necessarily restrictive environment of most
hospitals, certain kinds of interpersonal experiences between staff and
patient have a potential for intensifying the patient's sense of lost power.
Hospital staff consists of individuals each with a set of needs—personal
and professional—that may come into conflict with those of patients.
Common conflicts between staff and patients center on "compliance" or
power issues. Occasionally, a staff member may feel that a patient is not
sufficiently compliant and therefore is not under staff control. In some
cases, this has occasioned a struggle literally "unto death." More vocal
patients may also acquire the ominous label, "noncompliant," a label that
may follow the patient long after the conflict has been resolved. Moreover,
the conflict and the allegation of noncompliance often stem from unilateral
decisions on the part of staff regarding their view of the patient's needs
without benefit of the patient's input (Eisenberg et al., 1981).


A frequent source of staff/patient conflict arises when a staff member
gives mixed or double messages. This may occur because the staff member

[p. <i>376</i>]

In fact, there are an endless number of personal and idiosyncratic issues
over which conflicts may arise. Some staff feel that patients "should be
grateful" for the care they are receiving. The expression of gratitude
necessary to satisfy staff may very well leave the patient feeling even more
dependent and out of control. Some staff may feel that a patient who is not
depressed is denying, and may attempt to encourage the onset of
depression; others may feel that a patient who directly expresses depressed
feelings—particularly tearfully—is weak, dependent, and unmanly. In
either case, the patient's right to his own feelings ends up being attacked.


A common and time-honored conflict between patients and their nurses
is that of the lag time between patients’ requests for PRN (as needed)
medications and the fulfillment of those requests. Some patients request
medications well in advance, partly to assure that their need will be met
before it becomes too intense; others regard it as a matter of pride to display
their stoicism and wait until the last possible moment to ask for assistance.
In either case, those nurses who uniformly delay responding to patient
requests amplify the frustration and powerlessness experienced by their
patients.


This discussion of factors in the hospital environment that contribute to
the subjective distress of patients is only cursory. The possibilities for
experiences that leave a patient feeling helpless are infinite. For those male
patients who characteristically respond to stressful and anxiety-provoking
experiences with an intensified need to be in control, the hospital
environment has the potential of creating iatrogenic psychosocial maladies.


<b>Methods Male Patients
Employ to Cope
with Iatrogenic
Psychosocial Maladies</b>


Although a variety of psychosocial
maladies are possible, anxiety is likely to underlie them all. For this reason,
reducing anxiety and sense of threat is the major psychological task
confronting all medical patients. Most people attempt to master anxiety in
ambiguous situations through assertion of control over the environment.
The instrumental male is particularly prone to try and "do something" in an
effort to restore his internal sense of control over the external environment.
To this end, it becomes extremely important that he feel his actions will

[p. <i>377</i>]

The male patients most often referred for psychological services in
medical settings are apt to employ an array of less adaptive mechanisms in
their efforts to regain control (Wright, 1980). Several distinct types of male
patients may be identified by the clusters of maladaptive behaviors that
they exhibit. The most prevalent clusters to be referred to mental health
professionals are those considered by the staff to be the "nasty patient,"the
"V.I.P." patient, the "poor me" patient, and the "tough-guy" patient.


For the patient who is unable to express his fear and who may feel that
he is going to be neglected and overlooked, intimidation may be viewed as
the only path to security. Although irritability may be present as a function
of illness and depression, the patient who wishes to establish some control
may use his testiness to communicate to staff that he is aware of what is
happening and will not "take it lying down." This fellow experiences the
need to be vigilant, distrusting staff to respond adequately to his needs
unless voiced frequently and loudly. All complaints tend to be tendered at
the same volume and tone. Furthermore, his low expectations of caretaking
lead him to make excessive demands on staff, in part to exert control and in
part to conduct tests that staff would respond if they are <i>really</i> needed. In
actuality, however, this tendency toward being demanding is likely to
produce a response in staff quite opposite to that desired by the patient;
staff become less responsive or even antagonistic. An unfortunate dynamic
is likely to develop in which patient and staff behave as though they are
antagonists rather than colleagues working toward the same goals. The
patient becomes determined to secure attention through escalating the
behaviors that have led him to this point, and staff become increasingly
resistant and seek to "break him" of his bad habits, often resorting to
passive-aggressive maneuvers. A full-scale power struggle may develop in
which the patient becomes increasingly angry and aggressive.


The more dependent the angry patient actually is on staff, the more he
may resort to demands in order to determine his power (Eisenberg et al.,
1981). For example, a patient who was newly spinal cord injured felt
completely helpless and made unreasonable demands of staff to learn what
tasks others could be intimidated into performing for him. Spinal cord
injured patients (or any of a number of types of patients who have sustained
a massive disability) are faced with the task of constructing new identities in
much the same way that adolescents must establish an identity. They rely
heavily on the feedback of those with whom they interact to establish a new
self-image. When such patients use anger and demandingness as their

[p. <i>378</i>]

The "V.I.P." patient also feels out of control in the hospital environment,
but marshals a different set of behaviors to secure some sense of control.
Instead of attempting to overpower staff with aggression, this individual
tries to intimidate staff by conveying to them how important, that is,
personally powerful, he is. Essentially, he is saying, "Don't you know who I
am? Surely you don't plan to treat me like just another patient. I'm entitled
to special attention and consideration!" Therefore, the V.I.P. patient
employing this strategy for control may tell anyone who will listen who he
is, and will also tend to increase the frequency of this behavior as he feels
more frightened and out of control. In some cases—perhaps where the
patient does not feel that he is sufficiently important—significant exaggerations
and falsifications of credentials may occur. In these cases, staff
may find themselves feeling annoyed at the patient, but may be unable to
identify the source of their annoyance.


This patient may parade a variety of credentials. One face is that of the
professional, successful businessman, or celebrity, but there are many other
ways of "displaying credentials" as well. Sometimes boasting of special
knowledge or of the patient's relationship to a health-care professional are
offered as proof that "you can't fool me. I know more than the average
patient."


Financial status, personal contacts, spheres of influence, and personal
attractiveness may all be deployed to assert a patient's merit of special
service and attention. In Veterans Administration Hospitals, some unique
kinds of credentials may be tendered. The patient may boast of, or even
exaggerate, his military experiences, his rank, or his service-related health
problems. Frequently, the patient who engaged most glaringly in this
activity is the patient who feels uncomfortable accepting what he may
consider "charity" from medical staff.


Patient efforts to make staff aware of "V.I.P." status are not always so
direct. The patient who interacts collegially with the health-care team by
calling members by first names, the patient who takes charge of other
patients, and the patient who is seductive in his interactions with staff may
all be seeking to communicate that they are slightly more worthy and
important than the other patients.


The "tough-guy" patient shares some characteristics with the "V.I.P.";
in fact, some patients may show both faces in efforts to feel secure. The
"tough-guy" need not resort to external cards of identity, however, to assert
his "specialness." He displays such stoicism that he appears to require no
help whatsoever. He is the joker of the unit and appears invulnerable to
anxiety. This is the guy who waits six hours before requesting his four-hour-acting
pain medication. The difference between this patient and the

[p. <i>379</i>]

Acting quite different from the two characters just described, but with
the same agenda of gaining control, is the "poor me" patient. This
individual acts as though staff can't hear him if his complaints are accurate
and realistic; therefore, he exaggerates his symptoms and intensifies his
sick role in an effort to <i>convince</i> everyone in earshot of his need for
attention and care. The "poor me" patient usually appears depressed,
anxious, or both, and is often withdrawn. Pronounced grimaces are likely
in response to inquiries about the patient's condition, and exaggerated
difficulty in movement is likely to be displayed. Such patients may come to
be regarded by staff as hypochondriacal; as a result, staff may attend to
them less than other patients, causing the patient to escalate complaints
and symptoms and setting off a vicious circle of dissatisfaction on both
sides.


All patients may from time to time behave in one of the ways cited above
as maladaptive. Ultimately, the difference between adaptive coping and
maladaptive coping in hospitalized patients is, not unlike in other contexts,
determined by whether or not the patient is getting his needs met in the
most efficient way. Moreover, the patient who is coping adequately with
the situation is likely to have an array of responses from which he can
flexibly draw when he determines that an approach is not working.


<b>The Male Role and
Mental Health Referral
in Medical Settings</b>


No attempt will be made here to
supply an exhaustive list of issues for which medical patients are referred to
health psychologists. There are presently a number of excellent texts
devoted to this task(Gatchel &amp; Baum, 1983; Stone et al., 1980). Rather, the
objective of this chapter is to discuss specifically male issues as they appear
in the health-care setting.


Occasionally, male patients in medical treatment will request help for
mental health problems, such as depression or anxiety, or they will request
assistance in adjusting to illness or a terminal diagnosis. These patients are
generally similar to nonmedical patients seeking mental health treatment in
that they are aware of the kinds of services available and recognize their
need for treatment. However, such patients are relatively rare. Most
commonly, male patients in the hospital for physical problems are not
aware of the possibility of psychological services, <i>nor</i> do they recognize the

[p. <i>380</i>]

Staff and family <i>concerns</i> about male patients are reflected in consultation
requests that ask the mental health professional to assist the patient
in adjusting to a disability; in dealing with denial, depression, or anxiety; in
coping with chronic pain or stress; in dealing with substance abuse; or in
addressing family problems.


Staff/family <i>complaints</i> result in referrals for evaluation for hypochondriasis,
psychophysiologic disorder, or questionable functional overlay in
patients' physical ailments. Other consults usually provoked by staff/family
distress include noncompliance with medical regimen, anger or abusiveness,
or substance abuse as referral problems.


Often the real issue impelling referral is the necessity for adjustment,
that is, the necessity for the patient to undergo a shift in his role. As
discussed earlier, the patient may be involved in role changes on several
levels simultaneously. A description of the course of a dialysis patient may
serve as an illustration of some of the changes imposed on patients and
some of the referral questions that might be asked of the mental health
professional.


The kidney patient who has come to the hospital for examination and
diagnosis is subjected to all of the demands of the hospital system described
earlier, and may employ his most familiar coping style to contend with the
stresses. If anger and noncompliance were selected, a consult might be
directed to a health psychologist requesting help in securing the cooperation
of the patient. Although the referral issue for staff may have been
noncompliance, there is a strong possibility that the issue with which the
patient will be dealing is a sense of powerlessness and a need to restore his
control (Eisenberg et al., 1984).


Simultaneously, the dialysis patient must deal with changes in his life
and in his role that extend far beyond the hospital and the temporary role
changes imposed by hospitalization. The patient who had been employed
often must deal with immediate retirement and loss of the breadwinner
role. As noted in other chapters, this change alone may demand massive
modifications in role expectations. In addition, the dialysis patient very
likely has reduced physical strength and stamina, and may be unable to
perform the heavier chores previously assigned to him in the family.
Further, cognitive changes may have resulted from the accumulation of
toxins (uremia) prior to dialysis, which threaten his ability to control
household finances and his sense of intellectual competence.


Under these circumstances, it is not surprising that many patients
experience an identity crisis, and search—almost frantically—for means by
which they may regain control and wield some power. Anger, hostility, and

[p. <i>381</i>]

Hospital patients do not enter the medical environment as blank slates;
rather, they are individuals with long-term patterns of adjustment that may
be incompatible with the new demands imposed by disability. For
example, prior to renal failure a kidney patient may have been able to
tolerate poor marital adjustment largely by avoidance. That is, through
work, child rearing, and outside recreation, the couple may have spent only
limited time together, and may have avoided the necessity of resolving
relationship problems. When such a patient is faced with the prospect of
retirement, almost continual contact with his spouse, and significant
dependency on her for assistance with a home dialysis program, the need
for marital conflict to be dealt with through counseling may be literally a
matter of life or death. Poor communication patterns, obstacles to dealing
with a spouse or a health-care professional, may require alteration.


Obviously, most patients are able to accept the conditions of hospitalization
and the necessary accommodations to physical disability or chronic
illness through their own efforts and resources. The question, then, is when
to refer medical patients to mental health professionals and when the
patient should be given the opportunity to adapt independently. It is our
bias that where the question exists, a referral for evaluation is in order;
however, the realities of private sector health-care systems may make this
recommendation impractical.


Probably the most important criterion for referring the medical patient
for psychological intervention is the clear evidence that the patient's
behavior or his emotional status is impeding his ability to benefit from
treatment. Often the intensity of emotion expresse—whether anger,
sadness, or anxiety—is considered the determinant of intervention need;
however, the intensity of emotional expression may be much more a
personal or cultural characteristic than a reflection of need. The effect on
the patient's acceptance of appropriate medical treatment, his receptivity

[p. <i>382</i>]

In some instances, the patient's psychological status may not only
hamper treatment, it may also directly exacerbate the health-care problem.
For example, excessive anxiety that is poorly managed in the hypertensive
or cardiac patient may have lethal results. In patients whose respiration is
severely compromised by chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD)
or asthma, anxiety further restricts the transfer of air into the lungs,
thereby increasing anxiety. Moreover, depression reduces respiratory
capacities in such patients. Depression may also reduce the pain threshold
in injured patients. It may also happen that a patient is in no apparent
psychological distress, but that staff find him difficult and find themselves
avoiding him for some reason. This patient, too, may have to modify his
behavior in order to receive maximum benefit from hospitalization
(Coombs &amp; Vincent, 1971; DiMatteo &amp; Taranta, 1979).


Medical patients who are identified <i>by others</i> for psychological referral
are frequently in sharp contrast to patients who self-initiate their mental
health treatment. Often, the problems noted by staff that prompt referral
are not viewed as psychological problems by the patient. Rather, the
patient may view the problem as being a physical complaint, a psychological
problem of staff, or as not a problem at all. Further, since referral
issues are often linked to the crisis of the hospitalization, many medical
patients have never given thought to mental health treatment, and may
have few or negative expectations of psychological treatment. It is not
unusual to hear a patient ask if his physician thinks he is "crazy" since the
doctor sent a "shrink" to see him. To many male patients, the consultation
of a psychologist is a clear statement that <i>someone</i> believes them to be
mentally weak and unable to cope independently. The notion of seeking
assistance for lifestyle changes or adjustment to disability rarely occurs to
medical patients.


Patients who have heretofore maintained privacy with respect to their
personal lives—especially their sexual activities—may understandably
consider intrusive those questions that the voluntary mental health
consumer has come to expect. Mental health professionals who are naive to
these considerations may find themselves facing a very resistant patient or
being quickly ordered out of the room. Interpretations of patient resistance
in this setting must be made very cautiously.


The implications of referral for somatiform disorders warrant special
note. It is an unusual patient with somatiform features who has not already
inferred from a physician's comments that his complaints were viewed as
hypochondriacal. The subtle distinctions between psychophysiological
disorders, conversion reactions, and functional disorders are frequently
unclear to health-care workers; therefore, it is not surprising that patients
are confused as well. The patient who believes that a "shrink" has dropped

[p. <i>383</i>]

A man who is confined to the hospital bed with an acute illness and
accompanying anxiety may come to view the warm, empathic mental
health professional who visits him daily as a close friend. Having no
previous expectations of a psychotherapy experience, the patient cannot be
expected to understand the limited nature of this professional relationship.
If he describes the time a therapist spends with him as "rap sessions," he is
not necessarily trying to devalue the therapeutic experience. Likewise, the
psychologically unsophisticated patient may not make a distinction
between the therapist and other hospital visitors and may ask personal
questions or offer compliments to the therapist. Therapeutic interpretations
that might have been suitable in an outpatient mental hospital setting such
as transference, dependency, weak ego boundaries, and so on are not
directly applicable to the medical setting.


<b>APPROACHES TO
COUNSELING/PSYCHOTHERAPY
WITH MALE MEDICAL
PATIENTS</b>


In view of the nature of men's socialization
and the nature of the hospital environment, counseling conducted
with male patients referred by staff clearly must be adapted somewhat from
traditional approaches in more conventional settings. The importance of
flexibility on the therapist's part cannot be overemphasized.


From the beginning, the medical patient calls for nontraditional
psychotherapeutic approaches. The therapist comes to the patient, he or
she stands, looking down at the bedfast patient who is clothed in hospital
pajamas, and must be prepared to discuss what is for the patient the most
relevant concern, his physical illness. However, conditions that allow the
patient to feel comfortable in this contact with the mental health
professional are quite diverse and require as much creativity as the
therapist can muster. For example, one patient may need reassurance that
the therapist is "not the usual kind of shrink" as he is informed, accurately,
just what sort of activities are typical for this professional. Another patient
may need to spend time telling the therapist just exactly why he would
never have anything to do with a psychologist before he may be ready to
spend time talking about the referral problem. One articulate patient had
to inform the therapist that he considered psychologists "barnacles on the
ship of life" before he could begin to form a close and meaningful
therapeutic relationship that continued for the remainder of his life.
However, it should be noted that early contacts with this patient were

[p. <i>384</i>]

These types of activities may be required in order to stay within the
patient's "comfort range." Although what ensues in therapy is often quite
typical and traditional, and despite significant psychotherapeutic gain, it
remains important for the patient to be free to characterize the intervention
in a manner that is comfortable for him. Therapists new to the hospital
setting are sometimes offended when a series of intense therapy sessions are
casually referred to by the patient as "our classes," but veteran health
psychologists recognize that construing the activity in this way may be the
critical factor enabling the patient to receive benefit.


Similar flexibility may be called for in selecting modalities of treatment
for hospitalized males. In fact, health psychologists must be prepared to
accept that some interventions are most appropriately directed at staff,
either through direct consultation or through in-service training. In other
cases, interventions may be achieved by educating and instructing staff in
patient management techniques or behavioral programs so that <i>they</i> might
intervene. Usually these approaches to treatment require assessment of the
patient, but in some cases staff education may be conducted in team
meetings without the specific evaluation of the patient (Gatchel &amp; Baum,
1983).


Presumably, all major therapy orientations are represented by mental
health personnel practicing in health-care settings, and it is likely that some
patients benefit from each of these approaches. However, the nature of the
referral often dictates, to some extent, the type of intervention. Because the
availability of the patient may be time-limited, only short-term, crisisoriented
activities are possible. Since the patient may be seeing the
therapist involuntarily and for purposes clearly not seen as self-actualizing,
nondirective approaches may be futile. In other words, the patient and the
referral problem may dictate the type of therapy employed. For example,
the "Type A" patient, for whom a feeling of control is all important, may be
particularly averse to so nebulous an activity as therapy, despite obvious
need for precisely that activity. Although the need to manage stress more
adaptively may be as vital to this patient as medication or surgery, his
intolerance of the ambiguity of "talking therapy" may preclude most types
of intervention. In fact, the anger induced in some Type A patients by
attempts at psychological intervention may be countertherapeutic and
even dangerous. However, the same patient who objects to "senseless
talking" may be intrigued by the technical aspects of biofeedback.
Moreover, the technology provides, for this patient, pragmatic (and
credible) evidence of stress, and of his capacity to modulate his body's

[p. <i>385</i>]

For example, in many situations an initial interview affords opportunity
for the therapist to offer permission for a patient to feel frightened,
depressed, and so on. The unfamiliar feelings and behaviors that he may
have been experiencing—especially when they evoked surprised reactions
in family and staff—may create additional distress for the patient who
questions his "sanity" or "rights" to his feelings until he receives permission
to accept them. Occasionally, once permission is received, the patient can
easily deal with the situation on his own without further help, and may
prefer to do so.


However, many patients, having been victim to the hospital system
described above, are overwhelmed with anxiety and other unfamiliar
feelings. They perceive themselves as being unheard. The opportunity to
ventilate those feelings in the presence of an empathic and understanding
listener may reduce their stress sufficiently to allow the patient to get on
with his recovery (Eisenberg et al., 1981).


Education is the most effective intervention for the patient who either
has not yet received sufficient information regarding his condition or has
not been able to accept or understand clearly that information. Education
is also an effective intervention for the patient who takes pride in his
strength and capacity to "take care of everything" but who currently
worries that he has lost that capacity, feeling powerless to cope with the
situation he faces. An explanation of the psychological process occurring
within him may relieve his fear of "losing his mind."


Failing to understand the role that they play in their illness, their slow
rehabilitation, or in their negative interactions with others, some patients
require confrontation that may be delivered most appropriately by a skilled
therapist rather than by family members or medical staff. Such confrontations
should be direct and also at a level that can be tolerated by the
patient who is ill, angry, and threatened by "shrinks."


All of the previously cited strategies are effective therapeutic tools in any
setting, but rarely do each of them have as much potential for creating real
and durable change as they do in the crisis that is engendered by illness and
hospitalization. However, all of these techniques may be insufficient for
some patients. For example, the patient who has repeated episodes of
Crohn's Disease (a severe and dangerous inflammation of the bowel) every
time his in-laws come to visit will require repeated intervention of these and
other behaviors in order to develop insight and the ability to modify his
response. Further, there are some patients whose psychological issues are
well entrenched and extremely destructive in the face of their current health
status. While in some cases, less intrusive strategies may have provided

[p. <i>386</i>]

While a variety of intervention strategies is available to the mental
health practitioner, another issue worthy of consideration is whether they
are to be applied in the interest of the patient or in the interest of the agency.
Agencies differ in the extent that mental health professionals are given
autonomy to decide on treatment contracts with the patient. In many
instances, the goals of the patient may be in direct conflict with the agency
or the referring party. For example, patients who are seeking greater
control over their restrictive and threatening environment may be referred
by a staff member who sees them as aggressive and noncompliant. The
chronic dialysis patient or terminal cancer patient who is opting to refuse
treatment may be referred to the psychologist by staff who clearly desire to
have the patient talked out of his wish. The patient who may be seeking
compensation from the treating agency is in obvious conflict with agency
financial needs. Also, the patient who feels (with some apparent justification)
that he is not being treated compassionately by staff may create a
conflict of interest for the therapist. It is important for mental health
professionals to clarify for themselves and for patients the degree to which
they are free to establish goals based solely on patient needs.


The health-care environment can be seen as having important interactions
with the traditional coping styles of men. Further, the referral to
mental health services may also impinge upon the attitudes of many male
patients. Innovative strategies for psychological intervention may be
required for this population. However, the effort is generally well rewarded
in that individuals seen in this context frequently are motivated (once they
are convinced of the efficacy of psychological intervention) to make rapid
and highly significant changes. In addition, a population that ordinarily
would never avail themselves of mental health services is afforded the
opportunity to receive valuable assistance.


<b>References</b>


Coombs, R., &amp; Vincent, C. (Eds.). (1971). <i>Psychosocial aspects of medical training</i>.
Springfield, IL: Charles C Thomas.


Degood, D. (1979). A behavioral pain-management program: Expanding the psychologist's
role in a medical setting. <i>Professional Psychology, 10</i>(4), 491-503.


DiMatteo, M. R., &amp; Taranta, A. (1979). Non-verbal communication and physician-patient
rapport: An empirical study. <i>Professional Psychology, 10</i>(4), 540-548.


Eisenberg, M., Falconer, I., &amp; Sutkin, L. (Eds.). (1981). <i>Communication in a health care
setting</i>. Springfield, IL: Charles C Thomas.


Eisenberg, M., Sutkin, L., &amp; Jansen, M. (1984). <i>Chronic illness and disability through the
lifespan: Effects on self and family</i>. New York: Springer.


Gatchel, R., &amp; Baum, A. (1983). <i>An introduction to health psychology</i>. Reading, MA:
Addison-Wesley.

[p. <i>387</i>]

Olbrisch, M., &amp; Sechrest, L. (1979). Educating health professionals in traditional training
programs. <i>Professional Psychology, 10</i>(4), 589-595.


Stone, G. C., Cohen, F., &amp; Adler, N. (Eds.). (1980). <i>Health psychology</i>. San Francisco:
Jossey-Bass.


Tefft, B., &amp; Simeonsson, R. (1979). Psychology and the creation of health care settings.
<i>Professional Psychology, 10</i>(4), 558-571.


Wright, G. (1980). <i>Total rehabilitation</i>. Boston: Little, Brown.

