TRANSCRIPT OF AUDIO FILE:
______________________________________________________________________________
BEGIN TRANSCRIPT:
COUNSELOR: Interview 19. 
COUNSELOR: Really great. 
PATIENT: Yeah. Felt really good about it, but (inaudible at 0:00:11.5). 
COUNSELOR: Yeah, I hope everything pays off. 
PATIENT: Yeah. I know, it's really strange. Because I don't feel much, different. I just feel like less of a load on me but-I still feel like the same person. 
COUNSELOR: You really expect him to feel that it was transformed [on it] ph.
PATIENT: You know I would think with all the hubbub, I would think that it's really (ph) brilliant or something.
COUNSELOR: So is that a disappointment or what?
PATIENT: Yeah. Well-
(audio gap)
PATIENT: In retrospect, I suppose I haven't, it was a mistake. I should've known better than to expect all that. I should've known better than expect it was going to change automatically. Or even to have that feeling. 
COUNSELOR: Yeah but given that you didn't know, this kind of gets you down, in a way? Where every thing (inaudible at 0:01:13.4)?
PATIENT: Maybe but it probably doesn't compare with how I normally (laughs) focus in so, you know. 
COUNSELOR: Right. Oh-
PATIENT: Dropped a-dropped those purposefully. It's a lot closer than I was, than I was Thursday. 
COUNSELOR: Yeah, yeah. 
PATIENT: I don't know. It's kind of funny though. It was really int-an interesting experience, you know like I-
COUNSELOR: I'm sorry?
PATIENT: I went there. I said that I had wanted to take the physical. [0:01:40.6]
COUNSELOR: Right. 
PATIENT: Probably didn't want to give up my two last days unless something, like the draft board, sort of took care of everything for me. But I went there-not afraid, not nervous, not anxious [or nothing for work] (ph). I don't know, I didn't feel uptight when I was going through any of the physical itself. Like nervous or, and unpleasant, anything like that. Irritated at having to wait in line so I could take it. 
COUNSELOR: You didn't mind any.
PATIENT: No, it was all-it was an experience. Hopefully and from what I gather, from what they told me, from-from they told me. They said it was permanent week there between-the only time that I would have to go through that, and it was really interesting. They put in three hard masses of people, but I don't know-sometimes I'm really weak.
(laughter)
PATIENT: Or... it also reminded me of feelings like I'd had when I was in summer camp. Like you were... I felt like I was part of a group. I really felt like, it's strange that I didn't have to be in a group like that but you were really part of the group. It sort of felt like, almost as if I in the element. It was like being in a camp or something that has a cabin. 
You sleep in a cabin, most of your group. You do thing with the group. You go out hiking with a group. I don't know. I some-it was comforting because it, they had sort of taken all the initiatives away from me, at that point. I just more or less doing what I was told to do. And didn't have to make decisions. I can't-I don't know. I'm trying to describe the real-the real thing about it. [0:04:06.0]
COUNSELOR: The real thing was more then in terms of community I guess, then. 
PATIENT: Well-not the community but belonging to a group. Like a group of boys, a club in the neighborhood, and something else. I don't think it's entirely appropriate, but it's just like the feeling that I had. I don't know why. Some of the guys were there, like they were doing a mental test. There was some guy talking about how he was trying to get in. And then another guy said, "Oh yeah, I'm trying to get in too." And he goes-the first guy. The one talking about how, "Oh you want to get yourself in group two?" 
COUNSELOR: Oh. [0:04:50.9]
PATIENT: Yeah, (inaudible at 0:04:54.9) happened. I was next to, on one side there was a guy who being looked at that day. And the other was this guy who was afraid he was going to fail the physical because he wanted to go to Oxford Academy School. And... it's straining to talk to very diverse types of people, although they're very lovely. They were all in it together for various (inaudible at 0:05:28.1). 
COUNSELOR: Yeah. Even though there were all kinds of differences between you that are pretty fundamental. I mean there's still that kind of feeling. 
PATIENT: Yeah. I mean-I don't know. Like when we're (inaudible at 0:05:49.1) I imagine, I'd feel a certain feeling of camaraderie pop up. I was feeling a sort of thing -  I don't know what it was. Like I feel that I think it was, it would fall and put our hands in again. 
COUNSELOR: I'm going to try to fix this tape recorder. I cannot concentrate. I don't know what it needs. I'm really sorry. I don't know what the problem here is. 
PATIENT: Sometimes-
COUNSELOR: Isn't that bizarre? You know, I just turned-I think it's-I fixed it, and I think all I did was turn it off and then turn it on again. 
PATIENT: Sure, like sometimes the tape might not be in the package straight. [0:06:36.9]
COUNSELOR: Sure think so. I hope that you're not doing a new strategy. 
PATIENT: No. Towards the end I was feeling for the words-
COUNSELOR: Yeah well the machine. I meant about when I stopped and did something about it, and not when...
PATIENT: No, I'm going to start running I think, like I have before. 
COUNSELOR: Yeah well it was a kind of weird experience, different from anything else. 
PATIENT: Well it was really interesting how it-they call this a physical examination but it was just-I could just like all the, all the-how they would, not being really careful just because they wanted to deal with huge numbers of people. 
(laughter)
PATIENT: You know like, they give you the colorblindness test and have one notebook you know with the colors with dots like green dots, read the number, and the red dots with something. And I flipped through the pages, and they called off a number-and like the guy in front of me is calling off, numbers. And I was looking at the book and seeing the same digits from what he called off. And he got passed. And they went through the same book for me. 
And I called off all the numbers and I got passed. Like it's just-and everybody who worked there had rubber stamps, all the time, rubber stamping everything. There was one point, where they lined 12 of us up, and there was a doctor who was looking at me, looking for lumps or bruises or something and then before, (inaudible at 0:08:11.8). And then had an attendant at a table, with the 12 papers, spread out before him. And about 100 rubber stamps arranged in a big arc. And as the doctor called off things, the guy was grabbing stamps-it was, it was... it was the basic-like cabin, I think they were part of a meeting (ph) or something. 
It was almost like that the doctor was trying to call out things fast, and then the guy could stamp. And then they were sort of competing with each other. I don't, I don't-at this point I'm kind of confused, you know. Like I'm - Like I've been given back my future and now I keep asking myself, "Well what are you going to do with it?" You know like, "Why don't you start making plans?"
(crosstalk)
COUNSELOR: (inaudible at 0:09:09.2)
PATIENT: You're free to make plans, and what you want to do -  what are going to do. And before I would not bother to think, to apply [for it] (ph) and for everything like that. That's-I don't even like the (inaudible at 0:09:19.9). If you're spending the time, you'd better do something good. 
COUNSELOR: You mean you like that, but you're kind of pressuring-what you'll-that is what you're intending to do about it. You mean that  - 
(crosstalk)
PATIENT: It's the pressure.
COUNSELOR: The fact that you can decide, you can decide about those-
PATIENT: Yeah, I don't feel as-the pressure like a lot of those go. And being free demands responsibility because an effort, (inaudible at 0:09:50.9). It's hard to find words, but the same thing holds true. I've got my future, and now I've got that to do-to try to think of what I'm going to do with it. 
COUNSELOR: And you like having to do that. 
PATIENT: That's what I'm saying, yeah. Like in a way, it's kind of an anxious feeling. "What do I do with it. What am I doing." (laughs) Yeah. But even then, I was making uncomfortable a lot like it. 
COUNSELOR: I don't know what to do. I really don't, because I... feel like I shouldn't turn the tape recorder off because I-
PATIENT: What do you want to talk about. 
(audio gap)
(crosstalk)
COUNSELOR: It doesn't start until you sit down. We'll just wait a minute and see. I can hear the static. Hear that? (inaudible at 0:11:07.7)
PATIENT: I can hear something, yeah. I had to do that during the physical too. 
COUNSELOR: What, listen to things? (laughs)
PATIENT: They had said, "Put headphones on" and if I'd always tell them, click when you hear the sound of the beep, when it didn't. Oh just all kinds of (inaudible at 0:11:20.5). I really couldn't tell. I passed. 
(crosstalk)
COUNSELOR: (laughs) Well, other than that, what do you think. 
PATIENT: That's quite enough. 
(moving chairs away from tape recorder)
COUNSELOR: Okay. I couldn't just stop every five minutes. I couldn't hear from there, (inaudible at 0:11:40.3). 
PATIENT: How long do you want to do? I don't know.
COUNSELOR: I don't know. I also can't decide what to do about it. 
PATIENT: Can you put me on the speaker on the tape recorder or... 
COUNSELOR: Well listen, see what you think. (inaudible at 0:11:56.4) 
PATIENT: I don't think that-I think it's probably coming from, underneath of the tape.
COUNSELOR: Well I truly don't know what to do.
PATIENT: Can I try something?
COUNSELOR: Sure!
PATIENT: Stop and blow in it? This is-this is the learning (ph) of mine. 
COUNSELOR: Oh. Could be. 
PATIENT: I don't know, I try learning and things like that. 
COUNSELOR: I'm-
PATIENT: But I couldn't focus when I was sitting here-
COUNSELOR: What?
PATIENT: I couldn't focus, just I was sitting here watching you play around with it, (inaudible at 0:12:33.5) and you're not doing anything, when I've had ideas, what it might be. 
COUNSELOR: Yeah, so, we'll try that one. Kind of breaks up concentration. Breaks up the continuity of your thought, I guess. 
PATIENT: What the noise?
COUNSELOR: Yeah. Getting on-I mean like it's getting on nerves (ph). 
PATIENT: Oh yeah. I don't know, there's something about background noise, when I'm trying to think. I can't make up my mind, that there's probably not enough or not-I've crawled under the ledge and tried a few times in particular, down in the Biology room. I couldn't think. Too (inaudible at 0:13:21.1)) from the fan, and no wonder. The whole building is designed, to be completely closed and if it has only ducts that all over, in the classrooms.
COUNSELOR: What? (laughs)
PATIENT: The thing is like a roar. It's really pretty loud. And at first it was kind of bothering. But then I tried studying, I found it was-almost, not restful, but it cut out distracting noises like rustling papers and things like that. Only this is quite a bit different-
COUNSELOR: Only this is different because for one thing this isn't, isn't incessant. It's rhythmical, so you'd only come to the certain-it's periodical drone. [0:14:06.7]
PATIENT: Well-
COUNSELOR: I'm really at a loss. Like we can-I think-I really don't like that sound, just the...
PATIENT: Has it done it before?
COUNSELOR: No, I've never known this machine to do that but there's all kinds of other fucked up things all the time, like record one track over another. And things like that. If you can think of another idea of how to fix it, that would be cool. The other thing-if this weren't, weren't too interesting, I would just turn it off. 
PATIENT: Yeah. I don't know, here's what-
COUNSELOR: And I may-anyway. (laughs) I'm so sorry, for now. Or else I could go and borrow someone else's tape recorder. 
PATIENT: I-
COUNSELOR: That seems a little awkward. 
PATIENT: I believe in blowing in the thing. 
COUNSELOR: Okay, why don't you try doing it? 
PATIENT: Actually I think it would be better if I could forget about it. 
COUNSELOR: Well that would be cool, but see, I can't. I don't think-
PATIENT: Oh the noise?
COUNSELOR: Yeah, I'm not going to forget about it.
PATIENT: Okay, then I don't feel, guilty about playing with it. [0:15:08.4]
COUNSELOR: Why don't you try one more time. If it doesn't work this time, then you could ...
PATIENT: Oh it's really knocking. 
COUNSELOR: Yes. It is. 
PATIENT: Wow, that's Morse (ph) code. Now watch. 
COUNSELOR: That's okay. 
PATIENT: I'm really distressed that it bothers you. I mean, I'm not hostile towards it now.
COUNSELOR: It was a bad choice you mean for talking about it now. Okay. 
(audio gap)
PATIENT: It's easier to talk when that thing's not squealing. 
COUNSELOR: Well if, why don't we go until ten after 4:00. (inaudible at 0:16:16.0)
PATIENT: I don't know. 
COUNSELOR: Unless you want to leave at 4:00 which is okay.
PATIENT: I sort of think, it's easier if I left at 4:00 because I'm supposed to meet someone at the library. I don't know the way it was. But... you know, I just felt there are things (ph) I want to talk about that distract me. And I feel it's painful to other people, just going..
COUNSELOR: Yeah it's really okay with me if we keep on talking about that. That's not what I meant was in therapy about it.
PATIENT: No, but I mean-this is how it was anyhow because I got to talk about it. 
COUNSELOR: Yeah. For me it was good for me to talk about it whether or not -  that sort of made it count for me.
PATIENT: Right.
COUNSELOR: Because I was talking about it then. 
PATIENT: And other people don't want to hear me go on and on and on about like-
COUNSELOR: I more meant you couldn't even go on as much as you wanted because that just kept distracting me and stopping and stuff like that. 
PATIENT: Yeah. [0:17:26.7}
COUNSELOR: I mean I do want really. (laughs)
PATIENT: I don't know if I said it already... enough to say about it. 
COUNSELOR: I more mean don't apologize for it. For being talking about that. 
PATIENT: No, no I'm not. Oh the end of last time, you asked me, about telling that I only had two times left and, I just thought I was going to talk about it this-I thought I would talk about that, here. When I first started, you know I really wanted just to-stop the bad choice. I seem to be here for research, and they say they were limiting to 20 sessions, and I think, but I was really anxious. I was against being limited to 20 sessions.
I was really anxious too. Get through the waiting list, and I agree. I sort of felt in the back of my mind, that at the end, if I made a big enough fuss-got upset about it, just being, see how it is, perhaps being too strict about that. But I also felt that, in a way that would be kind of shitty, because they sort of, were passing over other people, who've been on a regular waiting list. Who would get there sooner, if I-stuck to my part of the agreement, here. And, so I don't know. I didn't like the idea. 
 COUNSELOR: Yeah, it was like having to choose between yourself and other people's welfare. 
(crosstalk)
PATIENT: And also, just being like a general rule to satisfy an organization. Which, I felt, was intruding -  
 COUNSELOR: It was kind of (inaudible at 0:19:45.9) you. 
PATIENT: On me, yeah. And, I don't know. It bothered me at the beginning, to be limited to 20. But you know now, especially after Friday, a lot of what I'm saying about it is being optionalized. I don't feel it's that pressing. I also feel like it's sort of... it would sort of be good to take time, to like-to examine my life or something. To see if anything's changed or anything's happened. You know, by 12 weeks or whatever, how long I've been in this. You know if I'm not-I'm not upset at this point, this point in being here. [0:21:21.1]
COUNSELOR: You notice the good aspects too. 
PATIENT: I'd really like to have the option open of coming back. But, looks like I'm being, the more I thought of it, (inaudible at 0:21:41.7). 
COUNSELOR: So there's a couple of things about that. I mean, if you just want some kind of factual thing. Wanted-that I'm going to be around for next year. And I would be open to some more counseling, anyway-whenever that comes up. And the other things that gives some people some incentive probably, to belong to-but that's just the thing, I said it in a very cold more professional way. But I really mean that. And the other thing is that some people from the Center, maybe, I'm not sure-are probably going to start a group private practice, probably in Central Park. And stay together in some kind of way. But there would be a place-an institutional thing, for (inaudible at 0:22:27.2). 
(crosstalk)
PATIENT: And that-that would be outside the (inaudible at 0:22:30.9).
COUNSELOR: Yeah. What do you think of that. Does that make a difference on those things, that option? 
PATIENT: Well I think that, you know, it's good that you're going to be around. As far as-it's reassuring in case something should come up, I don't know. Like all of a sudden I just felt like kicked. Even-even now, I think it could come up before June, all sorts of these things. I don't know if you-if I made myself clear about (inaudible at 0:23:19.2)? Getting-taking a break from this to sort of, to see where I'm at. To sort of-
COUNSELOR: Well, it's a-you can put in that-
PATIENT: I sort of-I feel pretty good right now. But maybe when I start coming, I'll go back at it. 
COUNSELOR: Oh, I see. I thought you were saying something pretty different than that. But this is-is this like saying, but you're okay. If things go on though, they seem pretty good. But you just don't now whether that's-a lasting kind of feeling. 
PATIENT: It may just be a result of coming here. 
COUNSELOR: Maybe the-it's kind of-it's just kind of maintaining you at that level. But it's not a thing that's changed anything fundamental. But you -  you can't say. [0:24:17.1]
PATIENT: Right. By getting away, you just sort of see what's happened. And there isn't a-after a period of time, you should be able to gauge whether it was-whether things are, are any better or they just seem so while you're in therapy. 
COUNSELOR: You kind of want to be able to check on whether anything really has changed for you. And like you don't have a-it's almost like not, not having perspective on it now, to tell. And not having completed the whole experiment. 
PATIENT: Yeah. It's just-you're still taking the brunt of something, you know?
(laughter)
COUNSELOR: You're very (inaudible at 0:25:05.1).
PATIENT: You know, (inaudible at 0:25:09.1).
COUNSELOR: Well the work-did you mean anything now that you can experiment or did you mean more-did you mean more of the drug aspects of it?
PATIENT: The drug aspects of it?
(crosstalk)
COUNSELOR: Well you kind-did you mean that specifically-
PATIENT: Well I was, in terms of going to a hospital to see a doctor, and the doctor gives you drugs, to take. You know, you-like I'd go for an apple or something, and I had a pill to take. And as long as I'm taking them I'm fine. And you say, "Am I cured? Or just-is this attacking the causes, or is this the symptoms?" Like cold pills. They don't cure your cold, but they stop your congested sinus and stuff like that. When I was saying drug, I was thinking in terms of especially things that have gotten bad. While I take, I feel fine. But as soon as I stop, I get some of those problems again (ph). [0:26:12.8]
COUNSELOR: So then what does it make you think. What if it's either way. What if it is that way. What are the implications of either way. 
PATIENT: Well, if anything, if I did get to some causes, and I wasn't just the symptom, it would be fine. If things just seemed better, then that's great. And maybe I would want to come back, because I see other problems. But it would be even nicer, to be able to know, like it would be-I'm feeling better, but I'm not quite well. And I'm not perfect. And if-[0:27:02.8]
COUNSELOR: And you-would you like that kind of way of being? Or would you feel disappointed? Or what?
PATIENT: What, the facts were two, where in a sense-one is that I feel perfectly fine. And I like that, the most. And next to that, I would like to say I feel better. Indeed, I'm a little bit better, but I need more treatment. And the worst take, would be-maybe the times that that was only a painkiller, and you still feel as shitty as you used to. 
COUNSELOR: What-what would it feel like then? How would you feel?
PATIENT: That's hard to say-because I still haven't encountered this situation before, but-
COUNSELOR: Just imagine. 
PATIENT: Yeah, but... that would depend on, whether or not I could come right back. 
COUNSELOR: (laughs) How's that?
PATIENT: If I could come right back, that would be cool because it stops the pain. And if I couldn't, that would be bad because it would be just like, it was before I started. And that would be-I was unhappy then and if I went back to that, I'd be again just as not happy. And I'd probably feel just as desperate. 
(crosstalk)
COUNSELOR: And you wouldn't want to be back in that state, which was pretty unpleasant? [0:28:53.40]
PATIENT: Oh heck no. Don't think I could. So I'm not too sure where I -  what I've said, leaves me. Where I go to find myself in here. 
COUNSELOR: Does that mean you kind of don't have anything to say from there? You kind of laid out both (inaudible at 0:29:22.4) and covered them or?
PATIENT: I've laid them out. And I'm done with them, but I don't know if I've said everything. But nothing is coming to mind immediately. 
COUNSELOR: Then you are kind of finished with that.
PATIENT: I have this nagging feeling that I'm not. But I think there's something. And I'm trying to think what that is. Well you asked me to try to put myself in the, in which situation? And I said it would be hard to (inaudible at 0:29:59.1) without having-is that in a situation where-
COUNSELOR: Into, either-with yourself dividing into two (inaudible at 0:30:05.1). What if it turned out that it was the drug effect. 
PATIENT: I'm not-I don't know what I feel about that. Yeah, I said I'd feel bad, if it was considerably a drug effect. Did I?
COUNSELOR: No you didn't.
PATIENT: No.
COUNSELOR: You don't know what you said or are you trying to -
PATIENT: I'm trying to-trying to think of all the things that I laid out. I said there was a cure, and that made me feel good. And then there was a like a-and then there was a partial cure. Giving me-coming back or not. And in the event of, a partial cure. If I could come back, that would be good. I'd like that. I feel good about that. And then thinking about things have gotten better so far and maybe even for more time they'd get better, then if I had been. 
The partial cure was no possibility for continuing therapy. How I felt then-would probably depend a great deal on how partial the cure was. How clear the problems that remained are. I don't think I feel as-quite as despairing, like before I started, here. I might know where to look-I might have an idea, how to look for something like that, for help. You know I don't see it as being quite as bad. [0:32:33.1]
COUNSELOR: You kind of have some alternat-some notion that the world (inaudible at 0:32:37.1). 
PATIENT: Yeah, some notion that that's a possibility, of still feeling better. Maybe, some sense that things weren't really as bad as they might appear to me at a given time. At any given time I tend to see things in their worst light, and things look as glum as possible. And maybe I just have an illness, that (inaudible at 0:33:18.3) that it's ignored. I tend to, to see things in their worst light. And maybe that's a cultural thing. Because I know they're not all that bad. It's hard to put, put myself in a hole (ph). Give myself certain feelings, like I'm really faced (ph) with a situation. [0:33:55.5]
COUNSELOR: So you can't-you kind of can't get into imagining what this different outcome would be like?
PATIENT: I can-well I can when I'm just thinking. But I wonder, how much is-how much of it is being true? (When you're talking about how you would be like that] (ph).
COUNSELOR: Whether it's an accurate prediction.
PATIENT: Rather than accepting that I should suggest a prediction, predictions are-might have value whether or not they're true. Rather than accepting that there's a prediction or not, I'm interested in knowing whether or not it's true. [0:34:45.4]
COUNSELOR: Yeah and that's like-you're right about why, why are you saying why I am asking you this. Why I asked you, basically the prediction-how it seemed to you know, instead of what-what it was going to be like. If you're kind of worried about, what is it going to be like? Or you mean-
PATIENT: That's my first tendency, yeah. When you asked me to make a prediction, it's always hard to do that. Well this is a possibility but, if it's true. I'm not saying like it's true, but just prediction, what that would be. Not so much what I want it to be or hope it would be. Or something like that. But what I-I don't know. Not even what I think it would be. More, what I go for is, what it will be. [0:35:41.8]
COUNSELOR: So we're not there -  or that's not really what I'm asking about. Does that change anything? It's still coming in (inaudible at 0:35:50.1). 
PATIENT: No, I think I understand this, well pretty good. If you'd ask me what I would want to feel, sounds like that would be a different question. Than like maybe how I think I feel. I think-I think I did all right. And... I'm trying to go through these possibilities. 
COUNSELOR: Sift through. 
PATIENT: No, just sort of think. Yeah I think that we covered-because you don't think that we're the-we're the cases that nothing continues. And I could or couldn't go back in either of them. I just couldn't, tell you (inaudible at 0:36:48.1). If I could go back, I would think that maybe things are not going to change. And I'd just go on taking the drug, and I would feel better. 
COUNSELOR: So what would make you feel pretty hopeless.
PATIENT: Yeah. Pretty hopeless, not absolutely hopeless. Because it's always a possibility that things will get better. But from right now it's still, too much at the beginning. Now I get along well, they would get better. That would make me feel pretty hopeless. And if I couldn't come back at all... that's sort of hard to say, what I'd do. I don't know whether I'd-I could say I'd give up entirely. But that's hard to do. That's kind of hard to give up entirely. 
I don't know how you do it. I mean there's only one-one way I know of giving up entirely and that sort of being-to jump out the window or something. And, yeah, I don't have the guts for that. I mean there's something about suicide, makes me feel frightened. It's so unsure. Like I might be getting myself into a worse situation than I am now. Feel like I might repent on the way down. You know I can't say that I'd give up entirely but I'd be-[0:38:43.5]
COUNSELOR: Well it would be pretty grim. 
PATIENT: Yeah. I think I'd be very lost and confused with nowhere to turn, where to go. But even-I'm saying all this before I, without even considering that, now I'm not going to be back (ph). 
COUNSELOR: This is all in a way, a week ago, that you were talking to me. 
PATIENT: I mean my idea is having justice. To, not having to take this, it's been like a very certain thing for the last three years. And it hasn't been-integrated yet into my conscious like or something, and my unconscious. [0:39:42.4]
COUNSELOR: Well your habitual way of thinking is the other way. It's like the draft kind of wore a groove in your mind. And wore it all different kinds of aspects after a while. Or you can't just go, "Okay." 
PATIENT: Like if I had all the time handed, or the way I'm thinking, ready for the time when I got out, because it was a possible. 
COUNSELOR: It's like you're just kind of in a hold, while you adjust it to that thing. You know or always put-that was always exacted (ph) in you, when you were thinking about things. 
PATIENT: Thinking about what things?
COUNSELOR: Well like the grass is always present in your calculations. That's one thing. So if you came out with the ends, as though the thing that included that as one the ends, [keep it in the formula, variable] (ph). 
PATIENT: Yeah. Even now my thinking is that I'm still including that, as one of the pieces. 
COUNSELOR: Right well you might blow up a different outcome over here. You don't fill out a formula in a way. You know you have your conclusions, I'm just saying, when you're making those conclusions (inaudible at 0:40:53.7). 
PATIENT: Yeah. And then the grass is all dead. 
COUNSELOR: Now you have to go back-
PATIENT: Like I was trying to do that, for the last thing. Yeah. By not being able to come back and find your things haven't changed. Yeah, so I don't know what I feel. 
COUNSELOR: I have one question for clarification. When you say, "Not come back." You mean not be able to see me and not be able to keep coming? Is that your -
PATIENT: Yeah not being able to keep coming. Or, not being able to go somewhere of help, too. Which, in my case, is pretty much what it said, (inaudible at 0:41:48.0) outcome. Because I don't have the money to go to a private person. And, my idea help is not people like to work, my time is wasted, and stuff like that. And my parents, they're not there to help me get the envy of my parents. 
You know so it's pretty much been thinking you're a student, I'm cut (ph). And due to my one experience with Student Mental Help, I'd almost rather not go back there. Because I think it was-they probably, they put in a file on me. They looked at me (inaudible at 0:42:21.8) said, "No, back to her." And, I was very turned off by it. And maybe it wasn't-it wasn't' her fault. It's that in-I think I didn't expect, was the thing, is the college was going to be like that. And no I wasn't, able to deal with that I guess. I didn't like it. [0:42:53.5]
COUNSELOR: You didn't like her. 
PATIENT: I didn't like it. And because I didn't like it. It was just a room and her. I didn't blame the room, because without her presence in the room, it would've made it all right. But I'm sure, because I didn't like her. They probably, send me back to see her. And I don't think that, that me-just by knowing it's not her fault or it's not her, would make things any better. [0:43:29.7]
COUNSELOR: You'd still have that really negative reaction for her, whatever-even if you think it's for bad reasons. 
PATIENT: Sure. Right. And it even extends beyond her, it's just how the Student Mental Health service. 
COUNSELOR: Right.
PATIENT: I sort of (inaudible at 0:43:50.5), in my mind I see they are all like her. I don't know, I have to add you in as well. Having talked it over, make dinner, pushing back these books. And everything like that. Get them out-got to make room for the next one. So that's not just a good alternative but, some of the (inaudible at 0:44:19.6). Right now I'm really at the end. I've been through all my conclusions, and I found it more ridiculous to (inaudible at 0:44:36.9). 
COUNSELOR: Which you like doing. 
PATIENT: Well, I do it because I feel it's more of an arm in the universe even, to someone. Well that's what I thought the other day. There isn't -a letter to the editor in the "Maroon", by some guy who is very upset at the amount of noise that Building and Grounds people were making with lawn care machines. Did read that?
COUNSELOR: Yes but I didn't read the conclusion. I just glanced. So I only saw that-that response.
PATIENT: Yeah, he was very upset -
COUNSELOR: Is that it?
PATIENT: What?
COUNSELOR: Oh-the, was that the conclusion of the letter?
PATIENT: Yeah. He...
COUNSELOR: He was distressed. 
PATIENT: He didn't-(inaudible at 0:45:25.8). Which he didn't like being in it, due to the noise of all these machines. And then I got to thinking that, here's this great university. I wonder how much they spend on keeping this grass, fertilized and everything. They have an awful lot of people working on the grass. I'm not attacking their jobs or anything like that. I think that, in giving them jobs the University, has put that that, like their own jobs (inaudible at 0:46:09.1). But, the amount of money they must spend, on upkeep. Not on a physical plant, but on the grass. 
And then you compare to what I would, I would imagine it takes to operate the counseling center. I have no idea but I can just sort of compare the two in my mind. And I think (ph) it's probably at least equivalent funds. And they're getting rid of the counseling center, they're keeping the grass green. I think they start slicing away departments before they, stop taking care of the grass. I was always struck, even when I first cam here. There was always someone working on the grass. When it was green, maybe they're cutting it or raising it and keeping it. You know it's the very same grass. 
But it just really seems they spend an awful time on it. I don't know. That was, that was [some of] (ph) the discoveries here, and the money it's concerning to think. I didn't surprise me that... I've changed, adapt (ph), good intentions (inaudible at 0:47:42.5). You probably get that idea. And since I do-since I do I'm not surprised me that by these things that strike me as being, not right. 
(crosstalk)
COUNSELOR: Yeah right. It's like finding one more person to kind of raise (inaudible at 0:48:07.40.
PATIENT: Yeah but this one in particular is (inaudible at 0:48:10.1). I also kind of like the Chapel because, it's one of the biggest on campus and, it means nothing. 
(laughter)
PATIENT: It's just where they-where they give a degree. (inaudible at 0:48:39.3) chapel.
COUNSELOR: And this huge empty building, has been built (inaudible at 0:48:48.9). 
PATIENT: Yeah. Definitely pretty lonely in there. (inaudible at 0:49:01.4) I mean it is-it's just way to big for this university. Barn Chapel is more appropriate for-that's my view of something like a Catholic cathedral in Chicago would be, about that size. I don't know, I haven't seen many Catholic buildings other than St. Thomas. (inaudible at 0:49:38.4) You know, it's just hard thinking about it, if I keep on thinking, you know this university spends more than the amount of food for people. I like to think of something more meaningful to talk about rather than something from... 
COUNSELOR: Well how come you're not-can't think of anything?
PATIENT: I feel good. I feel good.
COUNSELOR: Well what do you mean. I thought I understood, but now I don't. So you feel good, you don't want any-want to get depressed with that stuff now?
PATIENT: I don't want to bring myself down. And I won't think about the unpleasant and racial (ph) aspects. So that-I don't know, it's just something about curtailing. To be able to, to start once again, like having my own teacher. 
COUNSELOR: Yeah, yeah. 
PATIENT: And, (inaudible at 0:50:50.4), but start living because they're not going to take my life from me, I think.
COUNSELOR: You mean like, you can.
PATIENT: And do something with my life. And not have it taken from me. You know I just sort of I haven't tried to say fall (ph) or-I can't, the thing with something like. It's really un-that I have like, when I went to California a couple of years ago, I went through Tahoe, or just in Wyoming, when it's unpolluted. It's not the city. Sort of like Tahoe is, it had a trees 160 feet tall which were perfectly straight. And white snow on the ground that's ten feet deep. It's just the real snow, and these beautiful feelings. 
COUNSELOR: Yeah. Could be-you mean something so perfect. 
PATIENT: Something so good and so right. 
COUNSELOR: And it's like the part of that that's like this, is it's like so right for you. (inaudible at 0:52:04.5) 
PATIENT: Yeah. It-I don't know, even what you said about, about being perfect. Is that the sense that I have when I'm, in natural surrounds, which is-
COUNSELOR: No you don't think odd (ph). 
PATIENT: It's not perfect, it's like that's the way it's supposed to be. That's the real way. Rather than, leveling it all and building -  building huge halls (ph). 
COUNSELOR: Right. It's more like saying, this really sticks for you. 
PATIENT: Like the really-the New York thing isn't a natural thing. 
COUNSELOR: And it's so nice-I guess part of what is so nice about having it there and so, you just recognize it. Just that immediate-
PATIENT: Well it's just such a beautiful thing. It's one of the most wonderful things that is human (ph). The trees were, and that they style (ph) in the different types of light. It-that visit (ph) meant a lot, to me. In the same way as (inaudible at 0:53:34.1). I even feel closer to that, I feel I could run off to the roots somewhere in there. And spend a few years, and built up a long cabin, or a pond or something that would just be, be really peaceful. So I don't feel like dwelling on my problems, today. And I also feel like, getting at the end of something that I'm testing (ph) for. 
COUNSELOR: You mean, not wanting to know if I'll be-
PATIENT: At this point, I think not. I don't feel like trying to embark on any big things that I'm going to leave unfinished. I don't know. The feeling is just-that I can't do much. So there's no point in me working at it to-
COUNSELOR: What's that thing feel like? 
PATIENT: I can't do much, in one more hour. It's almost like, most of what is going to be happened, most of what is going to be said or something like that, has already been-just had. I'm - I don't know. You know there's just not much time left. I don't believe there's like this flash of lightning miracle next time. And things are even going to be so much different from what happened. You know I think it's a defense that, is pretty much, proportional to the amount of the time that you spend. You know, like the additional benefit of one last hour, is going to be kind of small. I don't know, it doesn't really-
COUNSELOR: I'm feeling rather blindfolded. 
(audio gap)
COUNSELOR: Are those things that you don't want-want to speak about? Or is that something that there just wasn't an opening for.
PATIENT: (inaudible at 0:56:32.4) I think that, (inaudible at 0:56:41.8). We did all right with having it. But they're interesting to see.
COUNSELOR: Yeah, yeah. So you found out the things that you've told me and also some others that you feel are kind of neat. 
PATIENT: And it's also -  it's also nice like when you said, about talking  - - about just not being engrossing. And just sometimes it wasn't-like when I having my (inaudible at 0:57:13.5) or something. How easily I'm distracted depends on, on how much I get into it. Like it can be engrossing if I get into it. It won't be engrossing if I'm not. It's sort of hard to talk about that and just get [into it] (ph). 
COUNSELOR: So is that to say that this kind of use (ph)?
PATIENT: Yeah, I'd say it was. I always feel very bad in the beginning. Sort of like until you get into something. 
COUNSELOR: Like, "Oh no, again."
PATIENT: Yeah, what I'm going to talk about. I feel I sit down and all of a sudden it's quiet.
COUNSELOR: You have to think of something.
 PATIENT: No, no pleasantries and you sit down. It's also interesting to start. And until - until we actually get started, it's not very engrossing. 
COUNSELOR: Right. Well we could have a few pleasantries if you think that would help. I-do you think that would make a difference?
PATIENT: No. No, it's a hard to tell, nervous thing. It might have been nice, in the beginning. (inaudible at 0:58:38.5) Just sort of like fall into -  to maybe start talking about the one (ph) that I'm in, or... And all of a sudden you find yourself talking about these things that might have been all right, but I'm sort of used to it the other way. And I think I'd recognize the pleasantries or the (inaudible at 0:58:53.8).
COUNSELOR: Yeah. Well the only thing about it is, I don't know about just falling into it like that. You kind of-I can't decide. It's like in a way, saying it's just -  well okay, talk about the weather and then all of a sudden-there's never a transition that you notice. So you have to, break (ph) to get into something. 
PATIENT: You don't think there is, in terms of... I mean like -  
COUNSELOR: I have doubts. 
PATIENT: When you talk about the weather, and then have talk about what it is like to go in from the weather, into my class.. and all of a sudden, you know how know how terrible the teaching was, and how terrible school is. (laughs) 
COUNSELOR: Well that's a viable - 
PATIENT: That's the sort of thing I meant. It might not be... 
COUNSELOR: Well if that would be easier for you-you know, not to be (inaudible at 0:59:47.3), but if it's easier for you to something like just start talking on that kind of level, and ease yourself into it, and talk like that. That seems-
PATIENT: No I don't think it would be at, at this point now. I don't think I'd make it. 
COUNSELOR: To make yourself talk that different way?
(crosstalk)
PATIENT: Yeah. (inaudible at 1:00:04.6) You want to, walk in the (inaudible at 1:00:08.9) business, it seems sort of-a little tricky. 
COUNSELOR: Not as many-
PATIENT: Part of a deception sort of thing. You think it' s a special problem but it's not. 
COUNSELOR: I see like saying "Okay let's just be upfront. It's not a social call." 
PATIENT: Right. And I started thinking some things about testing. That I was going to do some testing. 
COUNSELOR: When?
PATIENT: I don't know if at the beginning or the end. I still have to come up with some more useful directions. 
COUNSELOR: Do you want me to check?
PATIENT: Well-
COUNSELOR: Well, maybe I should check. 
PATIENT: Well I don't know. Even then I just don't mention anything about it.
COUNSELOR: Well I know there's testing at the end. There's a (inaudible at 1:01:24.8). 
(crosstalk)
PATIENT: So there's a front (ph)-
COUNSELOR: He didn't say to [think out anything] (ph)-
PATIENT: (inaudible at 1:01:30.6)
COUNSELOR: So I guess-so what are you-just sort of bothered or... 
PATIENT: Yeah. (inaudible at 1:01:42.2)
COUNSELOR: And then waiting.
PATIENT: For the quarter and then, that kind of thing. Bye. 
COUNSELOR: Bye, see you. 
END TRANSCRIPT
