TRANSCRIPT OF AUDIO FILE:
______________________________________________________________________________
BEGIN TRANSCRIPT:
COUNSELOR: Interview 5, interview 5. Robinson, counselor, interview 5; Robinson, counselor. April 5th. Go ahead, I'm sorry.
CLIENT: Kind of, I guess sort of exciting in terms of being able to share with them feelings that, that we've had before and just that they're still there exactly - 
COUNSELOR: Yeah, it's kind of like - 
CLIENT:  - like they were.
COUNSELOR: You've been seen, like means (ph) the words between you still can be even though you have been together.
CLIENT: Yeah, a lot of friends I've been close to, when you're separated for a long time, you know, you lose something. [1:04:58.2]
COUNSELOR: The feeling doesn't stand up to the separation.
CLIENT: Right. Right. And it's just very much not the case in my relationship with these people. You know, like they're... well they're, they're just... they're very loving, warm people and very exuberant about that and I think there's a much greater strength in the relationship I have with them than as a lot of other people I've had.
COUNSELOR: Yeah, does it, it kind of makes you feel good like to see that relationship and to see that that feeling can sustain itself.
CLIENT: Oh, yeah.
COUNSELOR: It has sustained itself.
CLIENT: Yeah, very much so. I guess a lot of, and I was thinking earlier today, a lot of the things about them are, are kind of qualities that I don't always have when I'm with people. They come out when I'm with them and I guess I... one of the feelings I have is that I wish I could maintain that feeling of warmth I have with them with other people, who, who I really like, sometimes as well, but it isn't as easy to have a really strong sharing feeling and kind of giving and taking and all that kind of stuff. But it, it's just really kind of exciting to see them and I, the group that I had went really well last week. I think I just worked some things out and set some things up and I guess I've begun to feel like I'm kind of testing some of the things we've talked about, I'm testing them out with other people and trying to risk a little more in terms of the way I feel, or trying to test out how I feel by saying it without thinking about it first. [1:07:06.6]
COUNSELOR: Right, kind of just trying be a little more there and spontaneously there, express a (inaudible at 1:07:13.0) people.
CLIENT: Yeah, well I'm not sure I don't think about it beforehand, but I'm not... I'm trying not to let myself think as much, like trying to look at, rather just let it, let it happen a little easier and I, and I think I feel a lot better about it. I'm trying to, for example, like I'm going to be training a group of volunteer workers, it's I'm trying to - 
COUNSELOR: (Crosstalk) copy (ph) them?
CLIENT: Yeah, and I, and I'm trying to work out, well there's a lot of anxiety about doing this, I've never done it before, you know, but I'm trying to work it out in terms of expressing it, where I'm not going to be rejected by expressing that. But (ph) I am going to get some support, but where I might not have even talked about it. [1:08:01.2]
COUNSELOR: Yeah, it's kind of like whereas before you might have kept it really, just really inside you and not let it go live, it's like you are saying something about how you helped (inaudible at 1:08:11.6) - 
CLIENT: Yeah. Yeah. Which is really kind of...
COUNSELOR: How does that make you feel?
CLIENT:  - feeling... yeah, it's good, I think I'm testing things out in relatively safe ways so that, sort of a bolstering of confidence kind of thing.
COUNSELOR: Yeah, kind of sounds like it's bolstering. I mean you sound, just the way you sound, it sounds good, bolstered and (crosstalk) - 
CLIENT: Well things... well and I don't know how much it goes along with I'm not depressed about anything either. And - 
COUNSELOR: But two of them often go together.
CLIENT: Pardon?
COUNSELOR: Oh yeah, one's the kind of the reverse side of the coin of each other. You're feeling good about something, it's hard to get depressed. [1:08:55.5]
CLIENT: Yeah, well and it's easier to test out some things. It's easier for me to make a, take a risk and not feel put down or anything like that. One thing that's kind of strange that's happened. I don't know, over the weekend we all went up to Milwaukee and saw Don and he's on vacation, so he's, came down to New York and I don't know but I just sort of had a thought earlier that I, I feel as close to him and I, but I feel like sort of some of my love, I don't know dissipated like there are other people that I feel very close to and share my love with.
COUNSELOR: Uh-huh, it's kind of like you can show affection, it's not (inaudible at 1:09:45.6) do so person you can do that with.
CLIENT: Yeah, I don't know if it's to a negative effect on him, though. I'm not choosing - 
COUNSELOR: (Inaudible) conflict you're uncertain about what he needs. [1:09:57.7
CLIENT: Yeah and I'm not sure that that he isn't feeling some rejection as a result of that.
COUNSELOR: Has he said anything?
CLIENT: Well, no. Like last night we got home and we just sat up and talked and read for a while and my roommates came home - and they'd been out - and we all talked for a little longer and I don't know finally got to bed somewhere after midnight. And like I was really tired and I had things setup because, because all these people around, I have to be kind of rigid about getting some work done. And like I decided I wanted to bed and get some sleep and that was... I just, I had to do that and Don didn't want to go to sleep right away, he wanted to make love and I decided that I wasn't going to do that because I didn't want to, I didn't feel like it and, but I tried to explain it to him, sort of some of the things that we talked about that I decided I didn't, if I didn't really want to do it, why should I do it and I felt sort of guilty because I was kind of being selfish in a way but we talked about it and like, he felt really rejected and in some ways and I'm not sure he understood in terms of I still felt very loving and I felt very close to him. [1:11:35.3]
COUNSELOR: I mean he kind of took that, it kind of just didn't mean as much to you as, it'd be like if I'm (background noise). It's kind of like you've had feelings just because you didn't want to make love didn't, didn't have feelings and you kind of, Don took it that way.
CLIENT: I'm not sure how much he took it that way because we talked for a little while and I... it's sort of like we haven't seen each other for two weeks and it's sort of an expectation. He has a lot of needs, a lot of sexual needs, that I don't always have and so I knew that that was there and... which I guess made me feel sort of selfish about rejecting him in that case. And that's what... where I be... I didn't think about it last evening, but I thought this morning about if my feelings weren't that strong in terms of making love last night and the closeness of that, that I was wondering how, whether my feelings were really just being spread out and that I couldn't have that strong of feeling. [1:12:51.1]
COUNSELOR: Are you wondering because you didn't want to make love maybe that kind of means your feelings... are you wondering per... what that does mean, maybe it means your feelings are weakening or something or - 
CLIENT: No, not that they're weakening, no because that, that's not the case. What it... what I like through a lot of excitement this weekend, another friend of ours just got back from Korea and spent some time with him Thursday and Friday and then we drove to DeKalpins and that's where Jill and Frank, these are those two friends. Okay, so then we all went up to Milwaukee, well like there's a great deal of excitement and a lot of people I hadn't seen for a long time, people that I used to be close to that I don't have so many feelings for and other people that I still, you know, that still are very close and it was like, like I was almost just sort of exhausted - 
COUNSELOR: Yeah, it was a whole lot of kind of emotional excitement going on. Kind of drained you. [1:13:48.8]
CLIENT: Yeah, kind of that thing and like I guess I didn't get the feeling that it, that it, the experience and all was very draining for Don that - 
COUNSELOR: He still wants to make love.
CLIENT: Yeah, and I mean he still... he... I sometimes I just feel like he's got a lot more love in him than I do sort of.
COUNSELOR: Was it love in him or is just sexual love in him?
CLIENT: Both. Both. I mean I know his sexual needs are a lot greater than mine, like that's one thing, but also just I guess sometimes I... sometimes I feel very inadequate about my feelings of love and like I don't have a lot of love to give to other people. [1:14:51.1]
COUNSELOR: Kind of like when you kind of look at Don, see what he does (background noise) and my deficit in this area is that you say to yourself, do I, maybe I am kind of deficient and (inaudible at 1:15:02.7)
CLIENT: Yeah, I do. I do feel that way sometimes because he seems to just have so much love to give and it's either, it's either just harder for me to give it or I just don't have it.
COUNSELOR: But in any case it's kind of there's something different about you like you found (inaudible at 1:15:22.9) you know like he did kind of feel like you only have so much to give (inaudible at 1:15:30.8) and dissipate it, I'm kind of wondering, like I guess today is one of the times when you work on that feeling like, I mean maybe I just don't have really that much love inside myself or - 
CLIENT: Yeah, I don't... and someone said - 
COUNSELOR:  - (inaudible) insufficient
CLIENT:  - he, he like, he said something about, like sometimes I have a feeling he's afraid that, that I'm going to leave him. Like which has happened before and like he's a, like in the past years that we've known each other, spring's always kind of been a really bad time. Like summers we've spent together and during the year we've been separated and spring becomes a, like there's a real tension when we don't see each other often and the things begin to break down or have in the past and I don't feel that way now, but I know he's very afraid that something's going to happen because he's had, he's even had worse times with spring just in terms of other things besides our relationship and like part of last... of my not wanting to make love with him last night, you know, like he got sort of afraid -  [1:16:43.0]
COUNSELOR: That was like a harbinger or kind of a cyclic (ph) things, possibly shaky things to come.
CLIENT: Yeah and I don't - 
COUNSELOR: Or he took it that way.
CLIENT: Yeah, he took it that way and I don't feel it that way at all, but it, like I guess that's not really related to, maybe it is, I don't know. About not having that much love to give to people. And I'm not, I don't know so much I -  [1:17:12.5]
COUNSELOR: Yeah, it kind of sounds like you're really not sure (background noise) if that's really what needs are now.
CLIENT: Yeah, I'm not sure that it does. I'm not sure that, that the experience of the weekend and all has been that draining. I, I'm, I don't know. I guess it was something last night that I just decided I'm going to stand on it and talk about it. And in the... like, I guess I felt like it was worked out all right.
COUNSELOR: Yeah, but it's kind of left you with some kind of doubts about what does it mean about yourself and (inaudible at 1:17:52.3).
CLIENT: Yeah.
COUNSELOR: I don't want to talk you into that one, just, I do sense - 
CLIENT: I don't know if it's... well it's just that it's a recurring thing that I'm not always very sure how much love I have to give and that kind of occurs to me in relation to the weekend and last night.
COUNSELOR: How much are you (crosstalk) - 
CLIENT: And I don't know, yeah, I don't know that it's something he's talked me into because he's never had difficulty expressing love to people or being much more open about it.
COUNSELOR: (Inaudible)
CLIENT: And sometimes I feel like... like he'll say, "I know you have trouble expressing yourself, you know, and saying what you feel" and then, and on a, like he said that last night and I got really kind of angry inside because, well I thought part of it was because I didn't like being told to me something that may be true, part of it that, well I'm trying to work that through. [1:19:02.5]
COUNSELOR: I don't need to be told that.
CLIENT: And I, yeah, I don't need to be told that, right.
COUNSELOR: And now if you keep telling me that, it's going to even make it more true (crosstalk) - 
CLIENT: Yeah, see like being influenced and at... by - 
COUNSELOR: You don't believe (ph) me because [I don't] (ph) they're true.
CLIENT: Yeah. And I don't know that it is, but when somebody tells me that, then I begin to wonder if it is. So, and that in terms of the - 
COUNSELOR: So it's kind of like now there, that's where you are, wondering.
CLIENT: Yeah. Although I don't feel... like I don't feel terribly upset about it right now. I think partially because I just feel good about being and about the people I love being close. [1:20:01.7]
COUNSELOR: I mean it's the kind of thing where... well, it's kind of a doubt, but I'm not just going to let it... myself get obsessed with it kind of doubt all the good feelings that in existence, it's kind of there?
CLIENT: Yeah, well I'm beginning to question - 
COUNSELOR: Kind of look and see - 
CLIENT:  - whether it is there.
COUNSELOR: Yeah, it's a look and see attitude, I won't, it may be there because that's... remember we were talking about that last week was like not knowing what is real, sometimes you're happy now, so...
CLIENT: Yeah and see when I'm coming to not... I'm being... well at least presently I'm feeling kind of confident about the way I feel and I'm not ac... I'm not accepting, totally accepting of that doubt that maybe I can't love as much as somebody else can. I'm not sure that's, you know. And that now I, maybe it's because I'm feeling good about myself. I don't know if that changes if I'm not feeling good about myself but it's like I don't see anything coming up that's going to make me feel bad. [1:21:16.6]
COUNSELOR: Yes, it's kind of like you're unwilling to (inaudible at 1:21:22.3) pronounce fate on yourself in a way, or pronounce sentence.
CLIENT: Yeah. I, the thought just occurred to me though is that also possibility that I am just not willing to deal with it, but I, but I don't... I don't know, I don't think that's true, but - 
COUNSELOR: Like you can, I'm, well I see what kind of what you do in these things like you really are doubting or questioning your motives in doing something and that, you can really do that endlessly.
CLIENT: What, doubt, do that, yeah. Yeah.
COUNSELOR: Do you know what I mean?
CLIENT: Yeah.
COUNSELOR: What does that mean, that can kind of be an endless, an endless enterprise, do you know what I mean?
CLIENT: Well to the extent that I can just use it almost like a crutch to keep - 
COUNSELOR: No I didn't mean a crutch like you can say, well, well if you really say well that doesn't really bother me all that much and you say then, well why am I doing that, what am I trying to put that off. Do you know what I mean? It can kind of spiral and cycle on itself. [1:22:31.5]
CLIENT: Yeah.
COUNSELOR: And if you keep, I guess it's kind of like asking questions or wondering what your motivation is it's kind of like you, it really could always be unnoble. I don't know if you understand what I mean.
CLIENT: Uh-huh.
COUNSELOR: Like you really may not ever know why you're doing something, you could always think of another reason, that really could be the reason. Or maybe it's because I really don't want to face it. Well, why don't you want to face it, because it may be true. All I can do - 
CLIENT: Okay, okay, yeah.
COUNSELOR:  - do you see what I (inaudible at 1:23:05.3) I mean?
CLIENT: Yeah, yeah. Like what you're suggesting to me is that well just forget it because it's - 
COUNSELOR: Well - 
CLIENT:  - it's getting con-
COUNSELOR:  - you can make it become much bigger than it is.
CLIENT: Than it is, yeah. I mean it's not like - 
COUNSELOR: But I'm not telling you to forget about anything that's important to you, just about, it's something that can easily be dealt - 
CLIENT: Well yeah and well I think I understand what you're saying. If there's a don't... don't make it out of proportion, don't build it into something and that also means well that I'm not going to deal with it any further.
COUNSELOR: Well not necessarily because I don't know if you're doing it out of proportion now or not, but I'm just saying that that's something to think about, too.
CLIENT: I guess the reason, the reason I think about it, when I - 
COUNSELOR: And I, I feel bad because I really didn't mean to be telling you not to deal with it.
CLIENT: Okay. Then I'm, this is what, will that be the reason that came up to me, like this morning, I guess I was thinking of what I wanted to say today and I suppose it comes out it's a kind of thing I probably would only be overcome by if I was depressed and let it take over on me. So I'm sort of bringing it out and looking at it -  [1:24:25.1]
COUNSELOR: Because it is - 
CLIENT:  - because I'm not depressed and maybe now is a good time to look at it because it's not going to overpower and it's not something that's, and just - 
COUNSELOR: Well how, okay, let's talk about the thing that I mean... yeah, I didn't mean to, I wasn't really saying it shouldn't be looked at. But like when you think of yourself like as being a loving person or like now, let's say today, given the way you feel, now what comes to your mind, do you think... do you feel unloving...did you feel unloving towards Don?
CLIENT: No. No I don't - 
COUNSELOR: I mean in a kind of in the moment, do you, do you know what I mean?
CLIENT: Like right now?
COUNSELOR: Well I don't mean necessarily right now where it could have been in the moment last night.
CLIENT: Okay. No I don't... didn't feel unloving at all. I felt a little selfish. [1:25:19.5]
COUNSELOR: Did you feel then like were you asking yourself questions then does that mean you're not loving?
CLIENT: No it's more looking at it in terms of well, okay, if I go to bed and say I don't want to make love, then he's going to be really mad and then I'm going to feel bad because he's mad, but if I go ahead and make love, then I'm going to feel bad because I really didn't want to do that. Like that was going through my mind, so like it was obvious from the way I looked when I went to bed that something was wrong and he knew that and so I... like he gave me an opportunity to say that I didn't want to make love and to try to explain it to him, which was good, which was a really good thing so that I was able to talk about it like maybe if he hadn't given me the opportunity it might have just been well he'd get mad and then I'd get mad and it would've been left that way. But it didn't and I could talk about it because I felt loving and I felt close. I felt like I just had to not make love last night, like I had to stand up and -  [1:26:42.8]
COUNSELOR: It was important for you kind of like to do what you wanted to do or do... not do what didn't want to do.
CLIENT: Yeah. Yeah, I think it really was and I don't feel bad about it except for feeling selfish kind of. I don't like that. But even that isn't so overwhelming because like we'll be together for two weeks and I figure well, it'll give us... like if it were a weekend time when we were being together, I might not have been so selfish last night.
COUNSELOR: That's kind of like, it's kind of like you tend to feel then, it kind of felt like important for you doing it, kind of did... (inaudible at 1:27:34.3) not having implications that you're not a loving, unloving person, I mean you're not a loving person, it just was kind of the way you felt.
CLIENT: Yeah. I think it was just the, the way I felt last night and it wasn't because I wasn't feeling loving or anything like that, I think it's just something that I didn't want to do and I wasn't going to do it. 
COUNSELOR: But if that kind of like your feeling of, see where I was trying kind of get is, when you have your doubts about feeling unloving, it kind of... is it in the moment of when, like when you're with Don or with other people or is it kind of only when you mull about it afterwards? Do you see the thing I'm -  [1:28:16.9]
CLIENT: Yeah, I know what - 
COUNSELOR:  - speaking of?
CLIENT:  - your, what your... what you mean. I think I feel it most or I question my feelings of love for other people most when I'm with people that I recognize as having a great deal of love. Like Don, sometimes like Jill and Frank, I have the thought of perhaps being somewhat jealous of them because everyone I know who knows them loves them a great deal and they're not... and the way they give their love to other people is not in a showy way, it's just a you know they care. They're very peaceful people and sort of a jealousy of wanting to be able to feel that way, of wanting to have people love me like I'll -  [1:29:26.2]
COUNSELOR: So kind of like when you... kind of like as we see (background noise) we can see (inaudible at 1:29:30.0) peacefully they are and how kind of caring they can be kind of, gives you kind of a loving feeling about yourself like that, I really wish if I could be that way and (crosstalk)
CLIENT: Yeah, sometimes I get jealous of Don too because sometimes a lot of people care a great deal about him that I know and like I feel that they don't care that much about me or as much. And it's because he gives them a feeling of love and it's not anything so much he says necessarily or does, you know it's like an accepting, you know you know but he cares about all these people and the same is true of Jill and Frank and I think my jealousy or my envy if that's... I don't know exactly what it is but it's because I want to be able to be that way and I, and I can't.
COUNSELOR: Kind of like you want to be able to have, have that kind of warm, kind of accepting quality, kind of -  [1:30:28.6]
CLIENT: It's almost sort of like a - 
COUNSELOR:  - foreign force from you - 
CLIENT: Yeah.
COUNSELOR:  - kind of like it's - 
CLIENT: It's like a sensitivity for people that like they have, it doesn't need to be spoken at all.
COUNSELOR: Right, it's kind of, it's just there sounds like it, you have to have a sign saying there it is.
CLIENT: Right, right. And I s... I think it revolves around somewhat difficulties of expressing my feelings and the question of whether they're really there. I mean this is something I don't feel as uncomfortable about now as I used to. But it's something I've had to work on, I've had to work on being sensitive to other people and work very hard on letting them know I care and sometimes being afraid that it's not coming through, not being sensed, not being picked up and then wondering whether it was real or I was trying to be that way. Do you know what I mean? [1:31:34.0]
COUNSELOR: Say more, I'm not quite sure I have it.
CLIENT: Well I think the best kind of way to explain it is, when I worked with Upward Bound and Don worked there, we were working with kids, I guess I was... the feeling that of working with the kid I had to work very hard to sit down and really pay attention and listen to what they were saying and hear it and be sensitive in what they were feeling and trying to express an understanding - 
COUNSELOR: Right - 
CLIENT:  - to let them know that I understood.
COUNSELOR:  - it's a lot of work for you.
CLIENT: Yeah, a lot of work it was like - 
COUNSELOR: It doesn't just come.
CLIENT: Right. Yeah. And it's like it's sort of innate quality that Don has, he's just really sensitive and I think the question of whether it's real or not for me comes up in that I have to work at it. [1:32:29.4]
COUNSELOR: I see. You mean when you say real it's like it's not really there in you.
CLIENT: Yeah, like the thing, the distinction is when I have to work to be sensitive, is it real?
COUNSELOR: Is your sensitivity real or is it.... Yeah, I see what you mean. Can you really say I'm being sensitive.
CLIENT: Yeah. That I can be in a limited, to a limited extent and I'm not sure what that - 
COUNSELOR: What that means about yourself?
CLIENT: Yeah, or where the limit is.
COUNSELOR: Yeah. It's kind of like you really... it really disturbs you kind of when you see like when you do have to work on being sen- being sensitive.
CLIENT: Yeah. Yeah, that, yeah it does, I guess it... I haven't let it bother me for a while. It's something that I've maybe accepted of myself, that I, that I don't have sort of innate sensitivity. And I guess I've accepted it as not necessarily good, but real, but part of me and that I have to -  [1:33:44.5]
COUNSELOR: I'd rather be another way, but it's the way I am.
CLIENT: Yeah, and I'm trying to work as best I can with what I have. I think that's how I've just sort of resolved it and I try to continue to work at it.
COUNSELOR: (Inaudible at 1:34:00.5) it's kind of like... I kind of sense that doesn't quite feel resolved to you because it's like when you see people who are extremely sensitive you do feel like envious, whatever the word is to describe it.
CLIENT: Yeah, I do.
COUNSELOR: It's like you wish you really were that way.
CLIENT: I don't think it can ever be resolved.
COUNSELOR: Not really (ph).
CLIENT: I guess that's where I'm at is that it can't be resolved so I deal with it as it happens and I remind myself to pay... to listen and I have to remind myself to be sensitive and I... part of the reason I... I don't know, one thing that all occurs to me every once in a while is that I'm self-centered and that may be why... one reason why I'm not always sensitive to other people.
COUNSELOR: That's kind of like because you're concerned and thinking about yourself that you don't hear or listen what another person is saying or feeling because it's like you're focused on inside you as opposed to outside of, to where other people are.
CLIENT: Yeah. I've always felt very bad about being self-centered and I guess for a while I decided it was more being selfish than self-centered. I'm not sure now which it is. But I'm not as worried about as I was maybe two, three years ago.
COUNSELOR: Yeah, but it... I do kind of as you're talking about it, I get a sense like it... you had this kind of disturbed look about, look about it.
CLIENT: Well to the extent that I haven't thought about it and it just sort of comes to me now. I hadn't thought about it for a while. Or said... talked about it. And it's... well I don't know what to say, I... yeah, I guess it's sort of disturbing, although it's sort of something I just accept, too.
COUNSELOR: Yeah, but how do you feel about it? Like if I were just... like if someone, let's say someone would say to you, "God, you're really selfish and self-centered and you don't care about, about other people" - 
CLIENT: That would hit me like a brick if somebody said that. It's almost like nobody knows, people don't know that about me anymore.
COUNSELOR: Uh-huh, because you've worked on it.
CLIENT: Really don't... I don't think they see that in me. And I'm not sure a lot of people ever did see that in me, as much as it was a perception of myself that I had.
COUNSELOR: Yeah, but I... I guess I kind of sense like what you're saying is that I "Oh I may be selfish and self-centered or one of the other (inaudible)" it's kind of like you don't... you really think that's a bad thing to be. On the one hand you say you accept it, but then on the other hand if someone saw that in you, God, it's like maybe seeing... it would, as you said, hit you like a brick, that's a horrible thing about a person. So I kind of... I don't guess I understand when you say you've accepted it, but then you also feel it's pretty, pretty awful to be that way.
CLIENT: Yeah.
COUNSELOR: All right. Is what you're saying is like you could see yourself that way - 
CLIENT: It's - 
COUNSELOR:  - but it would be awful for someone else to see you that way?
CLIENT: Yeah, they'd be... I'd feel worse if someone else saw it and I - 
COUNSELOR: Because it'd be more confirmed? Kind of like the thing that happened with the group? Almost that kind of a - 
CLIENT: Yeah, but I, but I... I'm confident that people already see that. I'm not... I don't think I'm as much that way as I once was because I've worked... I've tried to change myself in terms of being sensitive and understanding of the people and hearing what they're saying and listening to them, that I, that I've overcome some of that. And I think it's something in my experiences of living that I work on not being so that I don't ex-I think it's sort of a realistic expectation of myself to work on that quality about myself that I don't like and feel that somethings have happened, some good things have happened in terms of that, so that it's not as frightening to me anymore or not as bad. And I d-and I really very much, I don't believe anybody would say that to me. Don might because we're very close and I think it, in terms of the closeness of our relationship he can see that sometimes being there. But it's not there like it... as much sort of I guess as it used to be.
COUNSELOR: Yeah, it's kind of like you're not as much that way, but you can still kind of sense that that is a, some part of you.
CLIENT: Yeah. To the extent that, that I care what happens to me. The thing about I'm... most important person to me is me, it still exists. That I.. to the extent that I can't give up myself completely to someone else.
COUNSELOR: You feel like you can't - 
CLIENT: Yeah, I feel like I can't.
COUNSELOR:  - does that kind of, does that kind of carry over to what you're talking about in terms of loving?
CLIENT: Yeah. Yeah, I think it probably does, very much. That I - 
COUNSELOR: Kind of can't - 
CLIENT:  - that I sort of want to feel a wholeness of myself and that in a lot of ways I don't love myself. A lot of things about myself I don't love. To that extent, I probably can't be giving, completely giving to other people. I don't know what my perception is in terms of... when I look at Jill and Frank and see them as very giving, very loving people and saying then, like what follows is that they must love themselves also to do... to be able to do that. Being very selfless. I, I don't know if that...
COUNSELOR: Yeah, you don't know if they do feel all the concern - 
CLIENT: Yeah, but it's been an expectation of mine.
COUNSELOR: Right. It's kind of a way you'd love to be able to feel, but you just don't. You don't really... concerned about yourself, but don't love yourself kind of or don't really feel selfless.
CLIENT: Yeah.
COUNSELOR: If anything.
CLIENT: Yeah.
COUNSELOR: Something of selfish.
CLIENT: Yeah. Yeah, I guess the thought that occurs if I didn't care about myself at all, I might sometime have attempted to take my life if I didn't care at all. And maybe, maybe I've built some love for myself to the extent that I feel like I can give more than I ever could before of myself in terms of loving.
COUNSELOR: Right. Yeah, it's kind of like it, you can kind of s-I really kind of sense kind of (inaudible) about what you're saying, it's like, and I really feel like I've developed a lot from what I've been, a lot more the way I... I'm more the person now than I was, that I'd like to be, but I still don't... I'm still just, I'm just don't really... I'm not that kind of person who can just love and really caring and sensitive. It's like I'm more that way, but I'm still - 
CLIENT: Yeah.
COUNSELOR:  - feel pretty short of deficient.
CLIENT: Yeah.
COUNSELOR: I don't know if I can ever be that way either.
CLIENT: Yeah, I think - 
COUNSELOR: (Crosstalk)
CLIENT:  - that's, yeah, I think that's real, I think that's a lot of what I feel. Somehow I feel like, all we've been saying is intellectualizing. I don't know why.
COUNSELOR: You mean it kind of feels like all of a sudden you kind of stop and all of a sudden it feels kind of empty?
CLIENT: Well it figures like everything is... that I said, that you said in reply kind of thing is abstract sort of, I...
COUNSELOR: Theoretical or something.
CLIENT: Yeah.
COUNSELOR: It's about something that doesn't hit home. It's kind of like - 
CLIENT: Well - 
COUNSELOR:  - words.
CLIENT: Yeah, they're words and they're connected to me and the way I feel - 
COUNSELOR: But they're - 
CLIENT:  - but they're sort of outside - 
COUNSELOR: Very distant in a way.
CLIENT: Yeah.
COUNSELOR: It's kind of a feeling like you don't connect them to anything like inside yourself, it's... in some way. Like if - 
CLIENT: Yeah, I don't know if they need to - 
COUNSELOR:  - they make conceptual sense. But they don't... they're not meaningful.
CLIENT: Yeah. I guess. I don't know. I don't know, it's just sort of... I don't feel like I've been talking about someone because of things I've... I guess I'm not sure how much the things about enviousness of other people, the things about the limits of my loving and all of this... I forgot what I was going to say about them.
COUNSELOR: It's what you were going to say about how real they are.
CLIENT: Yeah. Yeah.
COUNSELOR: Right now.
CLIENT: Like, yeah, like they sort of were s-like right now they feel like they're just sort of imaginary things about me.
COUNSELOR: Kind of these, almost kind of conjured up fictions, the st- but they're kind of more than anything you feel right now maybe.
CLIENT: Yeah, I don't know how, how real it... they are. The things I've thought about... but I don't know how much they're just imaginary things. Maybe it's because I'm just feeling good, I'm feeling wanted and wanting and that I'm ima-just sort of creating imaginations about those things. Like I'm trying to make a bad thing out of a good thing almost.
COUNSELOR: Yeah, or sort of making them into much bigger things that seems right and I guess kind of what was happening there is kind of like as we were talking they were getting bigger and bigger. It's kind of like is this me, you know almost that kind of feeling.
CLIENT: Yeah, like talking about things that I, that I... aren't as bothersome to me. Like why should I be talking about things that used to bother the hell out of me and they don't bother the hell out me anymore. Like the fact is that I feel really good, that it's good to be with friends I'm close to; I love them and I know they love me and I feel warm and good and why should I question that.
COUNSELOR: Right. It's kind of like it's what you're saying that and that's really pretty much what I am feeling and why [can feel] (ph) these little doubts and try to make them into... construct big things out of them because they just don't feel really there. And the fact, I guess what you're saying is that you are feeling like you are a caring person, there are people who care about you and you care back.
CLIENT: Yeah. I... and the thought that occurs to me now is that maybe I shouldn't be talking about feelings and relationships that I feel good about. Maybe I need to talk about things that - 
COUNSELOR: Well, if you - 
CLIENT:  - I don't know.
COUNSELOR: Yeah, maybe the thing to do is to talk about it. So I guess you see the thing I guess is you (inaudible) wondering well talk about, like you're feeling good but you're saying well maybe I should talk about the doubt despite the fact that I'm feeling good or the - 
CLIENT: Or if I'm going to talk about something I feel good about - 
COUNSELOR: You should probably, yeah you should probably talk about what feels most real to you and that can be feeling good, unadulterated good. You know what I mean?
CLIENT: Yeah.
COUNSELOR: And there's nothing wrong with that, too. And I kind of think that you probably don't think that way.
CLIENT: What do you mean?
COUNSELOR: Well when you can just talk about feeling good, unadulteratedly, that that's an okay thing to do.
CLIENT: I guess, yeah.
COUNSELOR: See because it really strikes me as like what's kind of happening, what happened (inaudible) you're saying you're starting to talk about things well feeling good, but I'll talk about them anyway and after a while these things really aren't real, they're not real because you're feeling good. So it's kind of like there's... there isn't anything wrong in talking about feeling good if that's really the way you most are. You might even feel better after a while.
CLIENT: Yeah, I guess that's, that's it. That just really nice things have happened in the last week and maybe... all around kinds of things like with the group of girls that I work with. That was good and - 
COUNSELOR: That, too.
CLIENT: Yeah. We left with good feelings about where we were and what we were doing. Like I have less anxieties about working with the volunteer worker thing because I'm feeling good and because I've really sat down and done some work on it so that I feel almost prepared for it and I... and I'm almost excited about it, that it's going to be good. Sort of like the thought that comes to me now is that I'm probably more sensitive now because I'm feeling good.
COUNSELOR: Right. It's kind of like you're not so looking inside but you can hear things outside.
CLIENT: Yeah. I'm not so preoccupied with myself and what might be wrong with myself as I've been when I'm feeling down or when a blow comes, that kind of thing. And like last Monday dealing with my field instructor and consultant, they couldn't have told me... well I'd said that to you, too, like I can deal with them very efficiently, very well and didn't feel like they were my superiors at all. And I'm often... I guess I'm often put down easily or feel very like I've got to say the right thing or do the right thing because these people are looking at me and evaluating what I'm doing.
COUNSELOR: Yeah, but kind of like you feel you're more your own... feeling good, you're feeling you're more your own source for evaluation and not so dependent on what other people - 
CLIENT: Right.
COUNSELOR:  - think about you.
CLIENT: Yeah. Particularly in the authority and where I am kind of role where like I felt I'll just tell you exactly what I think and I don't give a damn what you say because I feel good about it and I'm right and I'm feeling equal.
COUNSELOR: Yeah, I kind of really sense that, it's like you are feeling and kind of (inaudible) to think of you're feeling is a kind of good, kind of whole and...
CLIENT: And strong.
COUNSELOR: Strong, yeah, strong like more sure of yourself as a person and the ground you stand on as a person in a way.
CLIENT: Yeah.
COUNSELOR: That's your own.
CLIENT: Yeah. And the question that comes up is well I feel strong now. Last spring when I was in sir (ph), we... do we talk about that? Did I...
COUNSELOR: I don't know - 
CLIENT: And I was in sort of a crisis thing and I, I to-didn't I tell you I was over at the student mental health clinic?
COUNSELOR: You mentioned a little about - 
CLIENT: Yeah, well the person I talked to over there suggested that maybe I wasn't as strong as I thought I was and I guess at that point, I really wasn't very strong, I was very down, very preoccupied with myself and the thought comes to me just now that I do feel really strong.
COUNSELOR: Maybe you're not - 
CLIENT: Confident about myself and... no, not that I'm not, but that how does it break down when I get depressed or why does it break down or does it all revolve around not being depressed, not letting myself be depressed?
COUNSELOR: Can you only be strong insofar as you're not depressed anymore?
CLIENT: Yeah.
COUNSELOR: It's kind of like how real is it. What are its conditions that this feeling good is feeling strong about myself? How strong is it or is it only certain times or do I not have to be depressed or perhaps maybe I have to be strong a whole lot more and then I can even feel something about when I'm depressed, too. Like I can take that in stride.
CLIENT: Yeah. I guess the assumption I make is that being depressed is a whole another world for me.
COUNSELOR: Yeah. It's kind of like you're two different people and you feel two different ways about yourself.
CLIENT: Yeah. Maybe... I guess the other point I think of is, when is it that I become depressed or how does that develop and break down good feelings, strong feelings. Because I'm thinking now that I'm least confident about myself, like the worse things about me are there mostly when I'm depressed, when I'm down. What sparks off being depressed is something I don't know. Does it help me to know what that is in terms of helping to deal with that so that it doesn't break me down.
COUNSELOR: It kind of sounds like you want to know the exact structure and dynamics so you can have a r-like you'll know what's happening when it's happening and maybe that'll help you?
CLIENT: Sort, sort of.
COUNSELOR: It's a whole pretty complicated thing you want to know, I mean it's - 
CLIENT: Yeah, I know. - 
COUNSELOR:  - but what I mean and what's... what I'm kind of pointing to is that it's really, all that stuff is very unknowable. I mean you can think you know it.
CLIENT: Okay. It's unknowable, that's what I want to know. How... is it just - 
COUNSELOR: Oh, I don't... I'm kidding (ph), it shouldn't necessarily be it's a... that's... and what I'm saying is that you can, you can look at things and try to figure them out and think you have, but you never know. You think you have until you're proved wrong. It's almost the point isn't the fact that you have figured them out, it's probably the fact is that you believe you've figured them out.
CLIENT: (Inaudible) or - 
COUNSELOR: Oh, that you b-you really think you've figured them out so that it d-it has the effect you wanted it to have.
CLIENT: Yeah. I guess that's - 
COUNSELOR: I guess that confuses the hell out of you, I just - 
CLIENT: Well, yes and no. No, to the extent of well maybe I shouldn't, maybe I shouldn't look or anticipate the depression, have to find out some way of dealing with it, but what also just occurs to me is to anticipate... or maybe not just anticipate, but just work on it, what feels good and be that.
COUNSELOR: Let yourself have those feelings.
CLIENT: Yeah. And not worry about it.
COUNSELOR: Yeah, because I kind of sense you really want to prepare yourself for something, for it all.
CLIENT: I guess so. Yeah, I guess that's... I see myself in the last two years hit... like last year I had a just really unbelievably low time and found myself almost totally incapable of dealing with it. And sort of approaching really deep depression, but doing something about it or maybe catching it and before it became undealable and kind of building back up str- good feelings and determining... and even by looking at what I don't like about myself. The kinds of things that we started talking about. I guess I feel a little better understanding of myself and sort of what I think I can do in the situation so that it doesn't take over on me. Does that make sense? I'm not sure if it makes sense to me.
COUNSELOR: Well I guess what you're saying is kind of like I don't know if it's understanding and then you just feel more confident and a little more strong about yourself and you're willing to... how to handle things and take things more in stride without being overwhelmed (inaudible).
CLIENT: Yeah.
COUNSELOR: And that's just kind of way you are.
CLIENT: Yeah.
COUNSELOR: We do need to stop.
CLIENT: Okay.
COUNSELOR: You don't look finished, like it looks like something is on your mind.
CLIENT: No. No, I'm okay.
COUNSELOR: Okay.
END TRANSCRIPT
