<font size="4"><b>Chapter 6: Where is There Help</b></font>

The tempest of tears and anguish which had been raging all summer
and fall slowly subsided around Christmas, and during that time I was
anticipating going into senior high school. Although I had been a serious
child, the passing away of this acute stage left me even more serious and
with a badly warped philosophy of life, which only a hard long battle
of intelligence could possibly work out.


There was one tiny ray of sunshine that came, however. Just a few
weeks before going from junior high into senior high, a picture of the
high school dean of girls appeared in the daily paper. Along with the
picture was a column telling of her work and how she was a person with
an understanding heart. It told how she helped many girls solve their
problems. Yes, here possibly I would find the needed source of comfort
and understanding. I had a warm place in my heart for her and wanted
to know her.


The anticipation of this new acquaintance temporarily sidetracked
worry about a future life and made the present a trifle joyous. I had a
chance to get back on my feet, so that when I entered senior high I could
start out with a bang as far as school work was concerned. This was a
chance to begin again in a new place, and that spring semester I finished
with straight A's except for the gym grade.


At the beginning of the semester the dean of girls called the girls individually
into her office and visited a few moments with them. Some of

[p. <i>31</i>]

As this dean lived only a few blocks from me, often I walked to school
with her. She kept me from sinking further, for, because I had my
thoughts on her nearly all the time, it gave something to make me want
to go on living.


During high school I again had crushes on nearly all my teachers,
but especially on this dean. Because I was still decidedly old-fashioned
the boys and girls took no real interest in me. Though I cared for a few
girls, there was no deep friendship or pal-like relationship that ordinarily
exists between girls.


Being human, normally matured physically and by nature having
strong drive, it did hurt to know that I was not liked by my classmates
and was not invited to birthday parties or parties of any sort outside
church. When the young people's group at the church tried to get me to
do things, I refused because I really didn't know how to act, and besides,
it was a waste of time. Even when I did make an effort to go with a
group I was not one bit comfortable. Always I had sort of an indigestion
feeling, rather hot and stuffy with dreadful tension. I didn't know what
to say or how to act, and didn't understand the jokes they were telling. I
didn't know how to laugh when the others did. In fact I did not feel
that I was a regular human being, for I wasn't interested in anything
that seemed to please normal people.


Teacher crushes were not satisfying even though they seemed to be
the only tangible emotional outlet. I thought about teachers all day
long and during the summer would go to call on them at their homes,
but I was not happy. When I lay in bed thinking about them and some
of their kind remarks, a strange pang would rush through me, giving me
a guilty sensation. I thought it was the voice of God telling me it was
wicked to like teachers, but actually it was a sexual sensation caused by
the degree of emotional satisfaction. After all, I wasn't so dumb! I
could see that other girls didn't adore teachers and didn't run after them.
It wasn't normal and I knew it, but I was in such a rut I couldn't get out.

[p. <i>32</i>]

Carl being only seventeen months younger than I reached adolescence
about the same time I did and became quite overbearing. He was the
"Papa" of the household and tried to manage everything. He was a
hard-working chap, had a paper route, got out and mowed lawns and
did many odd jobs. He was very self-reliant and methodical about his
religious tithing and devotions. I hated him because of this religious
devotion. In fact, I was very jealous of him because he was so capable
and methodical, for I thought I was quite slovenly. He could act like
a brute and sit right down to read his Bible. Not me, when I felt mean
I felt reading the Bible was hypocritical. Very seldom did I argue with
him or have any dealings with him. I just kept still and said nothing.
I couldn't play games with him or sit down on a chair in the same room
just to visit. I couldn't even look him straight in the eye, so just batted
my eyes whenever I passed him.


There was no such thing as individual responsibility on our parts. The
only things we did were what Mother told us to do. She liked my help
because I always did just as she wished, whereas Carl and Beth would
balk. Even to help Mother was hard because she never told us what she
had planned, and I followed her around in a sea of darkness. She thought
as long as she knew the plan ahead, that was sufficient. I felt so good for
nothing and dumb it was pathetic. When I would go down town with
her to shop I felt that I followed her around like an idiot, for when
downtown with her I always had a half-dead entirely indifferent attitude
toward everything. There was no feeling of self-importance and usefulness
in me. I thought if I ever did get married my husband would
suffer from neglect on my part, simply because I wouldn't know how
to run a household.


Nothing that caused so great an upheaval as that summer and fall
of mental anguish back in junior high could possibly be forgotten and
never come to the front again. I did try to push it as far back in my mind
as possible, but the memory of it was always there and never let me be
quite happy. I felt constantly as if I were going around in a cage and
continually imagined myself inside some awful closed in place. The
same fears of childhood were still with me only in much more chronic
and intense form. The feelings of guilt were not acute all the time, but
were silently eating away at my soul in a hidden fashion like some malignant
disease would do the physical body.


The annoying aspect of the condition at this stage was not so much
actual swear words, for I had gained some control. I governed my speech

[p. <i>33</i>]

Along with these images I heard voices telling me to do some things
and not to do others. If Mother would get up at five o'clock on Monday
morning to wash, a voice kept nagging at me telling me I should get up,
too. But I didn't want to get up that early. If I didn't get up it would
keep telling me I was lazy and that I should be considerate of Mother's
sore side. However, neither Carl nor Beth was much bothered about
getting up at that early hour. They slept until ten o'clock and thought
nothing of it.


Intellect and reason were battling against emotion. I wanted to get
back into God's graces again and tried to take a positive attitude toward
the Bible instead of being afraid to open it. I devoured its pages and
listened attentively to every sermon. If there was any chance that God
still did like me, I must find out and live accordingly. Evangelistic
meetings and revival services held me spellbound. But the only comforting
approach as far as personal satisfaction was concerned was
through the beautiful strains of hymns. Music seemed to soothe all
heartache and temporarily took me out of myself so that I imagined myself
as a finer person actually living according to good standards. But
as soon as the last notes of the music would die away I would find myself
right back where I started. Most every day I would sing all the way to
school and sang hymns all the time even around home. Church music
was the only thing that gave me any sensation that I had any personal
attachment to the Divine. Whenever I found myself greatly depressed I
immediately began singing as hard as possible and thus was able to keep
uplifted.


However, even the realm of music became infiltrated with my problem
and provided no real escape. The words of hymns more and more
became twisted and turned around and gradually I could not sing anything

[p. <i>34</i>]

The services of a fundamentalist type of church which I felt drawn to
and preferred to my own church did more harm than good, for constant
mention was made of hell, condemnation, and the absolute necessity
of being born again. The Holy Ghost was mentioned all the time as
being very powerful and very real. Because this name was being brought
to the foreground of my thinking again and again, I began to be greatly
afraid of myself  afraid that I would yield to the terrific urge
to call this power bad things. All my compulsions arose to taunt and
haunt me. Occasionally I just had to call God something, and the
high emotional state in this church made the necessity even greater.
Although I had for a long time been turning words to hymns around
and had been making hideous expressions out of them, those seizures
hadn't been totally beyond control, but at this stage every vile thing
seemed to rush through as I tried to sing. Even the music in all its beauty
was not sufficient to comfort and control my troubled mind. I didn't
dare sing the Doxology or Gloria Patri for I was certain to think something
bad, and always clenched my teeth.


Thus there was no real rise from the despondency of ninth grade, and
it was just sheer force of determination and will that made it at all possible
for me to keep going. The fall was always the hardest season of the
year to live through, for it meant another year would soon end and I
was getting older, and worst of all the "Second Coming" was closer. I
have never enjoyed New Year's Eve for I felt that as God always did
things in an orderly fashion, He would bring the end of the world on
December 31st just at the stroke of midnight. It didn't occur to me that
midnight doesn't occur every place on this earth at the same moment.
When the light of day actually came January 1st, I was always greatly
relieved, for likely I could live 365 more days, and my spirit would begin
gathering itself together until another fall.


The closer I came to the age of eighteen and twenty-one the more responsible
I felt for my actions and thoughts. This bothered me, for I
felt as long as I was just a "kid" God wouldn't be so severe, but every
year made me older and if I were to turn against Him, He couldn't forgive.
I knew my weakness, and the more conscious I became of it, the
more I really wanted to call God names and had a terrible time holding
them back. I began to be afraid of my own power and felt that if I ever
did get to heaven, I'd likely try to put God off His throne. If I weren't
afraid to call God names here on earth, why, with the increased personality
one might acquire in Heaven I wouldn't be afraid to do anything!

[p. <i>35</i>]

Usually ministers would base their sermons in January on the ideas of
the Apostle Paul about forgetting the past and pressing on to a higher
calling. Paul was pointed out as being one of the chief of sinners and yet
God had done much to change his life. The sermon was to serve as inspiration
and comfort for us. However, I gained no comfort because I
was even worse than Paul. Paul had only murdered people. I had it in
my heart to murder God. Yet I kept hoping something would keep
me from actually doing it.


Many a Saturday afternoon as I was attempting to study a Sunday
School lesson I became very conscious of sex feelings and felt I must put
aside study of the lesson until I could get over the feelings. If I were
ever to gain control of them, certainly I would have to have some correct
knowledge about sex, even though the day had not come when Mother
would sit down beside me and tell me everything. Little did I realize
that that particular day would never come!


In secret I went to the library for information. But as I went up the
steps of the library God's face frowned at me and He pointed His finger
at me and said in a very loud voice, "You have no right to know these
things."


Not even the Eternal God would let me find out anything, and it was
He who had created me. To whom could I go? In the office of the dean
of girls were several informative books on sex. When I became eighteen
years of age I took the liberty to read, for I had waited long enough.
These books did help, but only as far as the intellect was concerned,
for so grounded were my emotional attitudes that actual life was not
appealing or desirable.


I became greatly afraid of school, especially of subjects that required
reading and much recitation. I had liked English classes while they consisted
mostly of grammar, but I was overwhelmed when I took courses
in English literature and had to read compulsory book reports. So difficult
was the problem of reading that one year I asked the English teacher
if I could read books for book reports during the summer when I
wouldn't have to think about other subjects. She allowed me to do it.
It was almost impossible to keep from swearing at God when I read.


One fall semester my English teacher gave me an A-plus on my elaborate
English notebook and she said, "I wish that your recitations had been
the equal of this fine notebook." I couldn't recite. Whenever I said anything
at all I had to be sure I could guard my thoughts so I wouldn't
call God anything. This naturally pulled all my grades down. I began
to lose faith in my ability and feared college that was ahead. The sight
of books and a library petrified me, and gave me a choking, heavy,
black feeling. My ordinary notebooks were kept in such a slovenly

[p. <i>36</i>]

Constantly, constantly I was tormented quietlynot acutely enough
to make a scene, but just enough to tantalize me. There was no real rest
or period of quiet. Certainly someday again my sins would find me out.
I was so concerned about this that one night when I was in 11A I lay
awake late trying to plan how I could spend summer so that I could
keep my mind occupied and wouldn't turn on God and also wouldn't
keep thinking about teachers. It suddenly dawned upon me that possibly
I could tutor some boy or girl who needed help in algebra.


In the spring I went to the junior high principal to see what her attitude
would be. She had high regard for me and said, "Certainly you
can do it. Go ahead." She said I could use her name anywhere. So in the
summer I had my first pupil. I taught her algebra, Latin and English.
This girl had finished eighth grade and wanted to go into the last half of
ninth in the fall. That meant a full semester of advanced work to be
taught in ten weeks by someone who had never tried actual teaching.
It was fun and gave me much confidence in my ability, and it did occupy
my mind. Therefore each summer and during the year, too, I
kept teaching someone all the time, until by the end of my junior year
in college I had had forty-four pupils.


My pupils all liked me and said that if the teachers at school were like
that they would enjoy school. Here was a practical channel for emotional
expression, as good as I could hope for at this time. This seemed to be the
solution to my gigantic problem and my spirit survived a few more years.

