<font size="4"><b>4</b></font>

I WAS SITTING in the red leather chair in the day
room of the hospital. I watched the big clock on the wall.
It had a white face and black teeth and black numbers
and a red hand that went fast and two black hands that
went slow. I thought, my mind has sections like the hands
of the clock. There is a section that races around my head
like the red hand. It carries conversations, songs, sounds,
impressions. Streams of voices I heard, verses and awareness
of colors in a room. The other compartment is slower
moving and says "hello" and "good-by," "thank you," "it's
a nice day," and governs the smiling muscles and the look-pleasant
muscles and the do-the-ordinary-things-in-the
ordinary-way muscles. The third compartment holds the
terrible awareness of the evil influence of the Mind, a
slow-moving ponderous section like the tired hour hand of
the clock.


I was thinking of these things and at the same time moving
my foot to block half the window across the room
from me. It was a brown shoe with one lacing hanging

[p. <i>46</i>]

I noticed one of the card tables was placed in the front
of the day room and the heavy-set doctor sat with a nurse
at the table. The doctor called a name and a patient shuffled
to a seat before the card table and they spoke together.
Then the doctor wrote in a chart and called another name.
The evil-faced old man sat beside me and talked aloud as
each patient's name was called.


The doctor yelled "Big Jim" and the old man laughed.
"Here comes the Russian now, he's real dangerous, could
break you in two with his bare hands. Maybe the doctor
will say something wrong and he'll start taking the place
apart." I watched a giant with a great loping stride walk
up to the table. He didn't sit down, only boomed something
at the doctor and they both laughed and the giant
walked away. The doctor called another name and the old
man laughed in twisted glee, "Dave Cerfhe has a little
man on his shoulder, ha, ha, the little kike won't do anything
today. If it was a Yid doctor, little Dave would spit
at him. Tell him it's a Jew doctor and watch him puke." I
watched the little pale-faced Jewish boy with watery eyes
talk to the doctor.


Then my name was called. As I stood up, the old man
laughed and muttered, "He's in the right place." I sat
before the little table, told the doctor I felt fine; and
walked back to my seat. The evil-faced old man was gone.


"Paul, it's nine, time for group therapy."


A white coat they called Cliff was talking to me. I had
not noticed him coming into the room. I got up and followed
the others into the conference room. There were
ten in the room sitting around a long conference table.
It was an oak table with heavy carved legs. Some of the

[p. <i>[47]</i>]

"What will we talk about today, fellows: women, or
life, or troubles, or gremlins or little people?"


The little people. The words were familiar to me.
There were big closets in the house and in the back of the
closets were the little light blue doors that led to dark passages.
I was sure that other people lived in the passages. I
knew that they were little people, smaller even than children,
and you could hear them walking in the night and
sometimes in the day when it rained very hard. For they
liked the rain and the dark. I knew the little people
were friendly to me but they hated other people even my
mother and brothers and sisters and the teacher in school
and even the Irish priest with the black robe and red face.
Sometimes I would bring them cookies, just open the little
door and throw the cookies in and close the door. The
others heard the noises, too, and said there were mice in
the attic but I knew differently and threw in the food just
the same.


One day I was in my mother's room and looking
at things and in the distance I heard music and knew the
little people were playing because it was raining and they
liked the rain. I felt good to hear the rain and music and
looked for someone to tell. I saw the statue of the Blessed
Virgin and Baby Jesus on a shelf and I got them down to
tell them. They fell and broke right in the middle and the
Blessed Virgin's head and arms right to the blue sash were
in one piece and she still held the Baby Jesus, but his feet
had fallen off. I did not know what to do and I could hear
my mother coming up the stairs so I picked them all up

[p. <i>48</i>]

I wondered if the little people would be mannerly at
the table at least as far as they were able.


I heard my name and looked up. The heavy man with
glasses was talking:


"Paul went to law school, maybe he can help you. Paul,
Walter there fears his mother or wife will commit him.
Can you tell him his legal rights?"


I looked at the fellow. A thin, whiffled fellow who
seemed familiar but I couldn't remember from where. I
tried to remember the law. It was long ago as in another
life. I was about to shrug. It was too much trouble. When
I looked at this Walter he seemed desperate, haunted. I
remembered the room at law school. I remembered the
law school library. I could remember the brown law book
with red binding. If I had time I could look it up.


"It's a long time and we didn't spend much time on
it but it seems to me that it's pretty cut and dried. Either
the state commits you or doctors from an asylum or a close
relative working with the doctors. Usually it's just a procedure.
You are taken before the judge and the doctors
testify as to your condition and you are committed. Your

[p. <i>[49]</i>]

As I was talking the information was coming back to me
and then the old cynical touch came back, too.


"Your lawyer can find plenty of psychiatrists who will
say you are O.K. for a hundred bucks."


They all laughed. Even the heavy-set man with glasses
laughed. He said, "Unofficially, I would say that's just
about right but we never try to commit anyone. It's too
much trouble."


The young fellow, who slept near me and pretended to
be Jack Hayden, asked me a question. I had not noticed
him in the room.


"Are you a lawyer?"


"No. I quit school in the last few months."


"Why did you do that?"


I thought about that question. I was annoyed by it and
then I considered what answer I could give him. Did I
ever know the answer myself? It was something to do with
the two forces in me. The need to do good and the desire
to do evil and their conflict. I could not tell him that I
went to law school and business in the day and operated
a ring of car thieves at night. There was the problem there
of conscience, of no conscience, respect for law and no
respect for anything, and in those years after the army
I alternated between good and evil and the quitting of
law school might have symbolized the choice. I had become
a criminal. I did not say anything of this. I just
shrugged and did not answer and the heavy man stood up
and told us that the session was over.


As I walked back into the hall, he drew me to one side
and spoke in a friendly voice. "I hope you didn't mind

[p. <i>50</i>]

I walked back to the big room. I had been annoyed at
the questions about law school but I could see it did not
matter. I looked around to see where were these men
with the terrible troubles and thought as I sat in the red
leather chair, nobody knows the trouble I've seen, nobody
knows but Jesus, and the little wheel turns by Faith and
the big wheel turns by the grace of the Lord.


Sitting there it seemed the seriousness of my position
came to me. I had been here for some time. I did not know
how long. What was happening in the world outside?
How were Marie and the children living? I decided to
see the doctor and ask him. There was a white coat sitting
by the door. He was reading the racing charts in the <i>Daily
News</i>.


"I've got to see the doctor, can I get out to see him?"


He put down the paper and looked at me.


"They're all in staff now. I'll tell Doc Edwards when
he comes out."


I was sitting in the red leather chair watching the clock
when Dr. Edwards entered. He was the heavy man with
the glasses. He sat down in the chair beside me. His eyes
were sharp.


"Cliff told me you wanted to see me, Paul."


"I did, I wanted to talk with you about getting out of
here."


He looked at me and then stood up.


"Let's go into my office and we can talk it over."


I followed him through the corridor into a small office.
I sat across from him in a low cushioned chair and he
sat in a swivel chair at a drab green desk. He had a folder
on the desk. I waited for him to speak.


"When I came into the day room, you were just staring
at the clock. Are you very conscious of time?"


I did not understand the purpose of the question. It
might be conversation or it might be some trick or it might
be a code message. I decided to answer truthfully. It was
the only safe course.


"No more than most people. I was very careful on appointments.
It was almost a fetish with me not to be late.
But I did have to check the time very carefully. Many
times I was out of focus with the time as though minutes
had passed when actually many hours had gone by. The
one who suffered most from that was my wife. But I was
careful to watch the time even with her. It was just that
sometimes I had a terrific sense of unreality. Suddenly
I found myself in the present and all the immediate cords
to the present had been severed. Like when someone
wakes up in a strange room. Except that I had lived in
the room for months. I often felt dazed. Or I awoke with
a mood upon me as though I had dreamed something that
disturbed me but did not remember what it was. Like a
song going through your mind without any association
with words or memory. Until you locate it in your own
memory it is a disturbing thing to you. Then when you
remember the words to the tune or make some association
with it the whole thing is no longer important. I think that
this feeling of time passing suddenly is one of the most
disturbing of all. You are young... you are old...
and there is nothing in between. This is one of the
thoughts that is so depressing. I am a young ambitious kid
racing through school, and I am a father with my children
starting school and there is nothing between. Someone

[p. <i>52</i>]

"I remember when I was a boy of four having the same
feeling. I remember standing in the driveway beside my
house in the rain; standing and watching the rain run
down the driveway, walking and getting a sudden chill
and the feeling that I had been standing watching the
rain before in some previous existence. Another thing is
the feeling that my mind has three compartments, as
though I were operating on three levels of awareness. At
one time I have a flood of memories in my mind and an
awareness of the thing to say, the hello section and the
it's a nice day section and the awareness of present
objects in the room and beyond all this a feeling of a cosmic
awareness as though I were somehow in tune with
the generations of men before me. It is this cosmic awareness
that makes me feel that the things in which most
men place their interest are unimportant. I imagine you
think that I am just rambling on. Perhaps I am. It is the

[p. <i>[53]</i>]

"In a place like this you start to think too much of yourself
and how your mind operates, and a normal man
becomes sick from this endless introspection."


"Do you feel that the doctors here make people sick or
in some mysterious way work against the patients?"


"That's an obvious question, Doctor. If I answer yes,
I am classified as paranoid, the world-is-against-me type,
and if I say no, you won't believe me because of what
I just said."


"We are on your side, Paul, and I think that we can help
you. You may not believe it at this, time but I think that
you will see it later on. We do not want to keep anyone
here who can go out, especially anyone with a wife and
children; but what you have described to me is a type
of sickness and it is not fair to you, or to your wife and
children to go home still sick. It will only end in serious
trouble. Some of these boys have been sick a long time.
Jack Hayden, who sleeps beside you, has been sick almost
three years. Now he's planning to get a degree in engineering.
He's married to a girl from New England. You should
talk with Dave Cerf, he has a terrific insight now, he might
help you, or Bill Dolan, who has spent three years in these
places, an Irishman like yourself. Of course, you've seen
Big Jim; as he'll quickly tell you, he's been in nineteen of
these places from coast to coast. As I said, you could help
them and they can help you. Get to know them; it will
help you break these depressions.


"You know the Navy Air Corps expression, point of

[p. <i>54</i>]

Out into the hall. Reflection of the sun on floor by the
center door. I hate that damn sun. I wish it would rain.
A nice New England Northeaster. Wild wind and beating
rain for about four days and I could watch it through the
wet black bars...


I was back on the red leather chair, thinking of what
the doctor had said. I could not remember any tests or
seeing a staff of doctors. I was angry but sensed that to
fight back would do little good. I had not considered the
possibility of escape. Always there were the bars and
the sound of the doors locking and the keys rattling in the
night. I would need outside help and perhaps even someone
from inside who might know the conditions. I was
considering these things when a white coat called me to a
line of blue-clad patients waiting by the door. The terrible
uncertainty returned; we were going to some special

[p. <i>[55]</i>]

We were led out into the courtyard. Usually we were
led from the building to the walk by the edge of the large
grass field. Today, we walked across the green field to a
small Quonset hut. We entered one by one. I stood and
waited as I entered the screen door. There were fellows
dressed like me, sitting at unpainted wooden work
benches. In the back of the hut was a large sign with an
emblem like a doctor's emblem, with the words, "Occupational
Therapy." The fellow who seemed to be in charge
was a short, thin man with quick-moving, nervous hands
and a Polish name. I wondered why I was here. I did not
know how to make anything. I sat in a chair in a corner
and waited. The fellow they called Karl walked over to
where I sat.


"What would you like to make? You can make jewelry,
belts, wallets, rugs, anything you might want to."


"I don't know how to make anything."


"Watch the others and look at the things in the cases
for today, maybe tomorrow you could start something."


I noticed an easel with a brush and some oil paints in
a corner not being used, and I had an urge to paint something
although I had never painted anything before now.
I asked Karl if I could use the equipment. He showed me
how to use the palette and how to mix the colors and then
he left to show another patient how to stamp a design on
leather.


The empty white canvas seemed to glare like a brilliant
light. Then I felt as though I were on a bridge swaying
back and forth over a deep river canyon. It was as if from
the bridge I could see things passing in the wild river below
and I put on the white surface what I saw. On the top,

[p. <i>56</i>]

I worked at the painting furiously as though driven by
an unseen force. My face was covered with sweat and my
hands were trembling. When I had finished, I stared at
the painting. The room seemed to spin and the focal point
of the whirling room was the center of the picture in which
was painted an eye of red rim and blood-red pupil. I knew
that this was the Mind watching my life. I heard a voice.
There was another patient looking at the painting over
my shoulder.


"You're in the right place, brother, that damn thing
would make anyone crazy."


It was time to leave. I got up and walked through the
screen door and into the sunlight. It was as though I just
walked from a dark movie into the daylight. My head was
racked with a terrible pain. I followed the others across
the field and into the building.


In the familiar ward, I sat in the corner and felt a great
tiredness come over me. Did this wild violent painting
represent my mind? And if it did not, how had that surface
picked up these representations? Was the picture my
own production or was I influenced into painting something
my enemies could use against me? I decided to destroy
the painting the next time they brought me to the
hut.

