
By the end of 1979 I was beginning to feel the effects of too much
activity. I was constantly in motion, planning, talking on the phone,
conducting meetings, attending fundraisers, recruiting money/people/
resources. I had begun to feel estranged from myself and resentful that I
had so little time for a personal life--a sure sign of burnout. Though Terry
worked right alongside me in all these projects, our relationship suffered
from too little personal time alone together. By December it was apparent
to me that I needed to pull back, so I phased out of my leadership role in
the GAU.


I liked having more time to myself, but I also felt a little disoriented, no
phones ringing, no meetings, no crises. Maybe I pulled back too fast. Divers
come up slowly from the deep. I'd emerged precipitously. A part of me began
to feel too isolated, too lost to the action, bored and useless. Instead of enjoying
my quieter life, I was resenting it. Activist angst set in. There must
be something I could be doing.


As if on cue, in May 1980, I got a call from Don Clark, urging me to
come to the rescue of our mutual friend, Don Knutson, whose organization,
Gay Rights Advocates, was going through a palace revolt. Don Knutson was
an attorney, a constitutional law expert, and a law professor who taught for
many years at the University of Southern California and Stanford. In 1977,
Don Knutson was approached by a young law student, Richard Rouilard,
with family wealth who wanted to fund a public-interest gay law firm to
advance the civil rights of gays through precedent-setting litigation. Knutson
accepted the offer and with Richard founded the San Francisco--based Gay
Rights Advocates.


GRA successfully litigated cases dealing with child custody, recognition
of gay student groups, employment discrimination, and gay-exclusionary
policies of the Immigration and Naturalization Service. Part-time lawyers,
work-study students from law schools, and cooperating attorneys from other
law firms all became part of GRA. Maybe the organization grew too fast,
for despite its success, or maybe because of it, a small group of young lawyers

[p. <i>200</i>]

I answered the alarm and joined the board of directors of GRA. It took
almost a year, but the organization was salvaged, Knutson remained at the
helm, and GRA became National Gay Rights Advocates, continuing to litigate
landmark cases. I originally agreed to stay only until the trouble was
over, but working with that superb group of people kept me on that board
for four years. My old friend Knutson was a very dear, genteel, sophisticated,
and charismatic companion. My new acquaintance, Richard Rouilard, was
a brilliant, forward-thinking, uproariously funny young man who would become
a close friend and a member of my gay family.


Throughout the more than twenty years I spent as a young adult in therapy
with psychoanalytically oriented psychiatrists I was always assured by them
that I was not really homosexual. The pronouncement resonated deep within
me and set up the condition for a conflicted identity that plagued me for
years to come. In 1980 I was presented with a glorious opportunity for rebuttal.
I was invited to speak to the fourteenth annual meeting of the American
Academy of Psychoanalysis on the topic "The Homosexual and Society."


On May 4, 1980, I stood before a packed ballroom and explained to the
psychoanalysts gathered there that the only experience of "arrested development"
I had suffered was the result of being encouraged by my therapists
to live a lie for most of my adult life. I told of the despair I felt for being
so flawed, the suicide attempts, the repression of feelings of affection toward
women and how it had done irreparable damage to my ability to love and
trust women even though I was now free to do so.


I told this audience that I had eventually rescued myself from psychoanalytic
dogma about the meaning of homosexuality and found personal validation
in my involvement with the liberated gay and lesbian community. I
then talked about all the rich resources that our community offered for the
affirmation of a positive gay identity and the evolution of mentally healthy
gay and lesbian individuals unburdened by the need to distort their reality
in order to feel "normal."


Although they listened politely and attentively, I had no way of knowing
whether my message was getting through. Yet by giving that speech I passed
a marker in my life--a point beyond which I was free of these advocates
of denial who so diligently tried to "straighten me out." By standing before

[p. <i>201</i>]

In 1982, Terry and I had put our lives together in the serious way that buying
a house represents. I spent the next few years in domestic tranquility, savoring
the relationship that was increasingly at the center of my life. I came
to realize how much I had learned about partnership from this woman seventeen
years my junior but so much more mature than I in her understanding
of how intimate relationships work and what it means to be family. We
were busy integrating our books, our music, our dishes, and our furniture.
That was the easy part. Much more difficult was the integration of our styles
and interests because Terry and I are two people different in practically every
way: family background, cultural experience, orientation to socializing, recreational
interests, inclination to risk, concern about money, and level of
comfort with the curveballs life throws us all. She tends to take everything
in stride and wonders what I get so excited about. I tend to react, often with
intensity, and wonder why she doesn't comprehend what a crisis we are in.


In the process of working out a life we can both live with, we have built
compatibility, struggled to understand and embrace change, and appreciated
and valued the ways in which we differ. We don't compete for the attention
of our audiences, at least not usually, and we allow each other our idiosyncrasies,
at least most of the time. I have learned a great deal about compromise,
negotiation, and the many paths to conflict resolution.


Impressed with how successfully Terry and I have negotiated the rocky
relationship road, I began working a lot with groups of same-sex couples,
and soon I saw the commonalities that nearly all gay and lesbian couples
have to deal with. In 1985 I started to write <i>Permanent Partners: Building
Gay and Lesbian Relationships That Last</i>, which was published in 1988 by
E. P. Dutton. It has been in print ever since, a bestseller on gay lists for
years, and continues to sell steadily.


A key concept in <i>Permanent Partners</i> is the importance of assuming that
one's relationship is permanent--no running away from problems; no retreating
into silence, no escaping into drugs, alcohol, or outside sex, no moving
on to the next lover. I came to see with Terry and through the work
with my clients that the assumption of permanence enables partners to address
the deeper underlying issues between them and to achieve the trust
that makes real bondedness possible. Tempting as it is, flight doesn't work
to solve problems. What works is sticking it out through the painful discussions
until you understand what is really happening and what part you might
have played in it. What works is allowing vulnerability, being able to admit
you're wrong, and the willingness to change.


As I have traveled the country giving lectures and doing workshops on
relationships since the publication of <i>Permanent Partners</i>, I have become
increasingly convinced that these lessons are essential for gay and lesbian
couples who have too often internalized the messages of society about our
partnerships: can't work, won't last, don't count. Our relationships can work
and last, and they absolutely do count just as much as we want them to.
How dare straight society demean that which is so precious to so many of
our people? How dare they decide for us how legitimate our loving relationships
can be, what benefits we are entitled to, what religious or civil ceremonies
should be available to sanction our partnerships? Why aren't we angrier
about this?


I wonder why more gay and lesbian people aren't outraged at the arrogant
moralists in Congress and state legislatures who vote against our right to
marry as though we are not equal enough to them to deserve that privilege?
Of course, some in our community are not advocates of gay marriage, which
is fine. The issue here is choice, the opportunity to be able to marry if that
is what one chooses. An example of the absurdity of the moralists' stand is
Richard Ramirez, the California serial killer who raped and murdered thirteen
women. He was allowed while on death row to legally marry the person
of his choice because his sexual orientation was correct. Why is it that a
convicted serial murderer can marry and a decent, law-abiding gay or lesbian
citizen cannot? Why aren't we outraged?


The C. C. Construction Company in Palm Springs is a gay disco with the
usual ear-splitting music and jam-packed dance floor. The Board of National
Gay Rights Advocates had just concluded a weekend retreat in 1981, and we
were winding down to the beat of whatever was passing for music at the
moment. Above the din, someone was shouting at me, "Have you heard
about the new gay cancer?"


"The what?"


"Gay cancer. Six people have died of it so far."


"Gay cancer? What makes it gay?"


"All the people who died of it are gay men."

[p. <i>203</i>]

"I never heard of it."


"You will."


By 1983, over a thousand persons were known to be infected. Although
the numbers of sick and dying continued to increase, HIV and AIDS were
not yet big news in the country's media. The shift occurred in July 1985 with
the revelation that Rock Hudson had AIDS and was near death. Television
coverage of the popular actor's illness over the next four months became
regular fare on the evening news. It would, however, take our president two
more years to break what Randy Shilts called Ronald Reagan's "thunderous
silence" on the subject of AIDS.


It was for Reagan's sins of omission that participants in the 1987 March
on Washington for Lesbian and Gay Rights turned their faces to the White
House as they strode past 1600 Pennsylvania Avenue to roar one word repeatedly:
"Shame! Shame! Shame!" By then, twenty thousand Americans
had died of AIDS, yet the president of our country was still virtually silent
on the subject, as though it weren't happening at all.


The numbers of men and women affected by AIDS have been staggering.
I have lost friends, colleagues, and clients to AIDS, and with every death my
sadness has deepened. When I've thought I had no more tears, more came.
I have cried for some of the people I've written about in this book--my
dear friends, the cofounders of the National Gay Rights Advocates, Don
Knutson and Richard Rouilard. Four of the six men with whom Terry and
I founded the Gay Academic Union in Los Angeles. Rex Reece, Judge Rand
Schrader, Fred Greene, who did the brilliant illustrations for <i>The Heart Smart
Adventures</i>, and Jeff Beane, my research assistant on that project. Jim Foster,
who looked into the camera at that 1972 Democratic Convention and told
America, "I am a gay man." Freeman Pollard, Sheldon Andelson, and others
too numerous to name here.


Sometimes, when I'm lying in bed at night or waiting in a bank line or
driving the long stretches of Los Angeles freeways, my mind plays tricks. I
think of calling a particular person about something, and the truth slams
into my brain--"You can't call him, he's dead." I cannot fathom this person
gone. It makes no sense--too young, too vibrant, too alive.


"How can he be gone?"


"What do you mean he's dead?"


Going to funerals and memorial services became common occurrences
in the lives of gay and lesbian people in the 1980s and '90s. The biological
families of those gay men who succumbed to AIDS were sometimes present

[p. <i>204</i>]

Sometimes the biological family, carrying the denial of their "loved one's"
homosexuality to his grave, held sanitized services from which the person's
gay and lesbian friends were banned, at which no mention was made of
gayness or AIDS. My inclination to pity these families for the agony they
inflicted upon themselves is matched only by my anger at them for the pain
they added to the grief of people who probably knew their child better and
loved him more completely than these families of origin ever did.


We have delivered our eulogies, held one another and cried, committed
to carry in our minds forever the memory of our dear friends. There is so
much to be learned from the extraordinary caring that many gay and lesbian
people have come to experience through the periods of nursing our friends
and the times of grieving together. We have soothed and comforted those
we loved as they were dying and helped them take leave of us with all the
dignity that was their due. We have carefully composed our eulogies to make
sure there is recorded in the hearts of all those present the significance of
each and every life.


Being a therapist to gay men in the 1990s has involved doing things that
psychotherapists don't usually find themselves doing. When my clients with
AIDS became too weak to come to my office, I went to their homes. When
they became too sick to be at home, I went to the hospital. I've touched my
face to their gaunt, unshaven faces. I have silently said good-bye to them
during such moments, and when they died, I went to their funerals and
memorial services.


I feel on friendlier terms with death now than I did before all this started.
It still frightens me, but death is no longer the menacing stranger it used
to be. I have watched vigorous young men take leave of their lives slowly,
regretfully, sometimes fighting all the way, but more often calmly accepting
death as the release from pain that it is. I have measured my own courage
against that of the people with AIDS I have known. I have seen where I am
wanting, where I must come to terms with fear more effectively if I am to
face whatever the future holds with the grace that these people have shown
in their dying. And there have been lessons about living from these people

[p. <i>205</i>]

From the caretakers of those suffering with AIDS I have also learned volumes
about compassion and the ability to be selfless in the face of another's
need. I have seen men and women transcend their own expectations of what
they were capable of and what they could tolerate as the physical and emotional
demands of caring for a person with AIDS escalated beyond anything
they could have imagined.


There is a new kinship now among men and women who are gay, evolved
in the shadow of death. This kinship is a vital force in the relationships of
those who have shared a vigil for someone they loved. It has been a potent
experience to witness the playing out of the AIDS drama, a lesson in the
power of love and the strength of the human spirit. If there is anything
positive to come out of this terrible tragedy, surely it is the new awareness
that we gay and lesbian people have of ourselves as a strong, resilient, deeply
caring community capable of meeting staggering responsibilities. This, I believe,
is the legacy of AIDS.


There was a bit of a chill in the air that Wednesday evening in 1986, cool
for the month of May in Los Angeles. Terry and I were sitting outside talking
about the day. I crossed my arms against my chest to warm myself, and as
my left hand brushed across my right breast, I felt something there. No, it
was just my imagination. I tried to put the thought out of my mind, but
my fingers wanted to return to the spot to feel it again. I excused myself
and went into the bathroom where I examined my breast carefully. There
was definitely a lump there.


I stayed alone in the bathroom for a few minutes, thinking about what
to do. I had an appointment for a checkup the following month. Should I
see a doctor sooner? I remembered the fuss about the lump I'd had years
before--cancel my tour, get into the hospital right away--I'd ignored that
and the lump turned out to be benign. All lumps are not malignant. This
could be nothing. My mind began to fog over. I went back outside and said
nothing to Terry about what I'd found.


When I called the doctor's office the next day, the chirpy receptionist said

[p. <i>206</i>]

In the gynecologist's office on Monday morning the doctor examined my
breast and said he wanted an immediate mammogram. He told me not to
worry, but the urgency in his voice when he called from the examining room
to order the mammogram was anything but reassuring. I was beginning to
feel anxious. While the doctor was on the phone my mind reeled back to
five months before, December, the last time I was in that room. In the middle
of my examination, the doctor had been called out to deliver a baby. He
never returned to examine my breasts. I wondered now, might he have detected
this lump if he'd completed his exam then?


I liked my gynecologist. He was always reassuring when there was a problem.
"Don't you worry about it. Let me do the worrying," he would say.
Now the full force of that folly hit me. It was my body, my health, my life.
Why was I so quick to abdicate responsibility, to let male physicians infantilize
me as I had always done? I made a pact with myself to stay in control
of my health care from then on. I left the gynecologist's office, and later in
the day he called to say the mammogram was "inconclusive." He wanted
me to see a surgeon right away.


I raced ahead of myself, panicked. A part of me had already decided it
was cancer; I was ready, no surprises please. At that point I called Terry to
tell her what was happening. On Tuesday we went to see the surgeon together.
There was an intensity about Dr. Stephen Shapiro that I liked. He did a
needle biopsy, then sat with us in his office to explain what would happen
if the biopsy showed cancer. He carefully and unhurriedly answered all our
questions. I remember thinking what a patient and gentle man he was--for
a surgeon. The next day we returned to Dr. Shapiro. He said he was sorry,
but the biopsy was inconclusive. He recommended that I go into the hospital
for a biopsy under anesthetic. If it was positive, they could perform the mastectomy
immediately--one-stop surgery.


I decided I owed it to myself to get a second opinion. On Thursday, Terry
and I visited another surgeon, who examined me, then told me to dress and
come into his office. When Terry and I were seated in front of him, he
turned to the shelves behind his desk and pulled out a large book. He opened
it and placed it before us. "Now, I think reconstruction is very much in
order. It can be done in several ways. Why don't you look at these pictures
and see what appeals to you." With that he left the room.

[p. <i>207</i>]

Terry and I looked at one another. Slowly, absently, I turned a few pages,
only glancing at the raw scars of before-and-after pictures of reconstructed
breasts. I began to feel spaced-out, and I must have looked it. Terry gently
took the book away from me and put it on the doctor's desk. "Let's get out
of here," she said. We stood up to go. Just then the doctor returned. "See
anything you like?" he asked. Not waiting for an answer, he said that we
had to be concerned about the cancer having spread, so he'd ordered a series
of tests for me and made the appointments. "Please sit down, and I'll explain
where you go for these tests."


Without moving, I said, "I think I've missed something here. My biopsy
was inconclusive, but from an examination you can tell that this tumor is
malignant? And now we are moving right along to breast reconstruction?"
The doctor smiled, and spoke in a patronizing voice, "I'm sure you have
cancer. Trust me."


The last thing in the world I wanted to do was to trust this man. My only
thought was to get out of his office as quickly as possible. "I have to go
home and think about all this," I stammered.


"Well, don't wait too long. Every day counts," he said ominously.
At this point I felt frightened and confused, but I wanted to make a sensible
decision. I needed to talk to someone who understood all this. I thought
of Peggy. Of course! I would ask her advice. Why hadn't I thought of it
before? Everything had been happening so fast. How stupid of me. My friend
Peggy Kemeny was a surgical oncologist!


Peggy was visiting in New York at the time, so I called and told her what
was happening. She became quite agitated and asked, "How could you think
of anyone but me doing this? This is what I do. I'll be back in Los Angeles
on Sunday. I'll meet you at the City of Hope, eight o'clock Monday morning.
Be there." And that was that.


Peggy did a biopsy under anesthetic. I waited in the small recovery cubicle
for the results. When Peggy appeared, she had her hands jammed into the
pockets of her hospital coat. She was already talking as she rounded the
corner of the cubicle, as though she needed to get the words out as quickly
as possible: "It is cancer." Terry was right behind her, looking quite pale.
There is a moment when one hears such news in which everything comes
to a complete standstill, time stops, the moment is preserved forever. The
words hang in the air. "It is cancer."


When cognition resumed, my first thought was of how difficult it must
be for my friend to be giving me this news. Then I thought of Terry and

[p. <i>208</i>]

The mastectomy took six hours, followed immediately by a procedure in
which the plastic surgeon took tissue from my abdomen and made a new
breast. The "transabdominal flap" left a twenty-four-inch scar running
across my stomach from hip to hip. In the course of my "tummy tuck,"
they also removed abdominal muscles. What nobody told me was that recovery
from this procedure would be excruciating. When I tried to stand and
straighten up, the pain was searing. It went on for weeks.


At the insistence of the nurses, I dragged myself around the halls of the
hospital bent in two, pleading with them to leave me alone. I only wanted
to lay still in my pretzel-like misery, but they explained that I would be
permanently like that if I didn't get up and walk around. It took a month
of physical therapy and exercise after I left the hospital to strengthen the
remaining abdominal muscles sufficiently to be able to bend and straighten
in a normal fashion. Never mind. I had a new breast and a newly flat tummy.
I'd had superb care from a loving friend. And I was alive.


Several weeks after I got home from the hospital, I had my first appointment
with the oncologist who was going to follow my case. Dr. Michael Van
Scoy-Mosher (he added his wife's name to his own) was slender and fine
featured with a lot of curly brown hair and soft blue-gray eyes. His manner
was warm and low key. I liked him from the beginning. Michael explained
about the chemotherapy that I would receive every three weeks for the next
six months. He said I could expect my hair to fall out, so I might want to
buy several wigs as soon as possible. He said I would probably be quite sick
from the treatments for about four days after each one, but that I would be
okay to follow my usual routine the rest of the time. At the end of the discussion,
Michael gently put his hand on my arm, smiling reassuringly as he did
so, something he would always do at some point in every session, a moment
of personal contact beyond the clinical.


The following week I started chemotherapy, and indeed my hair soon
began to fall out, but by then I owned several quite fetching wigs. I lost
every hair on my head and wore my wigs for a year. I had expected that
losing my hair would be devastating, but it wasn't. I think having a totally

[p. <i>209</i>]

I was told that I was getting a very strong course of chemotherapy. I was
plenty sick, but it wasn't as bad as I'd anticipated. Perhaps it was because
I didn't fight it. I just accepted that I was going to feel rotten and be dysfunctional
for four days every three weeks. I prepared myself for the worst and
was relieved when the worst never came. During the first month of my recovery,
though, I had some trouble sorting out the emotional side of what was
happening to me. I learned that reading books about "battling cancer" made
me feel depressed and frightened because they were full of information about
the dire things that might lay ahead, so I stopped reading.


Michael referred me to a young psychiatrist who specialized in working
with cancer patients. Terry and I saw him together a few times. He was very
sweet and pleasant, but he had a tendency to explain life to me in a way
that made me want to yell at him, "Give me a break! I was saying these
things to people back in the '60s when you were in high school!" But I
didn't. I liked him and didn't want to hurt his feelings. All in all, I found
that returning to my routine, seeing clients, and resuming my writing constituted
the best remedy for me. Within a few months, I seemed to stabilize
emotionally.


When one contracts a life-threatening illness there is always a decision
to make about whom to tell. Some people feel comfortable telling everyone.
Others write books and appear on television talk shows. I applaud and admire
that, but the thought of becoming a professional cancer patient was
unappealing to me. I wanted my life to be as normal as possible. Of course
I told family and our closest friends, but I did not tell my clients, although
my clients who were physicians guessed the truth and called Terry to verify
whether they had "gotten it all." It may seem strange for clients to be calling
their therapist's spouse, but in the gay and lesbian community of Los
Angeles, Terry and I were a highly visible couple and she was easily accessible
to people. She simply could not lie to these doctors, so she told them the
truth. None of them ever spoke to me about it, taking their cue from my
silence on the subject, and I was glad. I wasn't ready to talk about it. I'm
not exactly sure why I felt the need to be silent about my illness. Perhaps
it tapped into the old program—I don't want to be different, I want to
be like everybody else, I want to be normal. That little tune keeps playing
somewhere inside me, and every now and then something happens to turn
up the volume.

[p. <i>210</i>]

In the years since my surgery I have enjoyed good health, carefully monitored
every six months by Michael Van Scoy-Mosher. Sometimes between
checkups I have the experiences that every person who has had cancer goes
through—lumps, bumps, and unexplained pains that trigger rushed visits
to the doctor to check out any symptoms that are not immediately identifiable.
There is always suspense while waiting for test results and great relief
upon hearing that everything is okay. One tries to achieve détente with the
anxiety that occurs each time an unexplained symptom appears. I have attempted
to maintain a certain detachment during these times of uncertainty,
but my unconscious is rarely fooled—as is apparent in the restlessness that
replaces sleep and the preoccupation with nothing in particular that replaces
the ability to concentrate.


One day I was in my oncologist's office talking to his nurse. I was saying
something about an advance in AIDS treatment and how it was "a medical
miracle." Michelle looked at me, "In this office we consider <i>you</i> a medical
miracle." I can't imagine why, but I didn't question what she meant by that.


October 1996. Terry and I are having dinner with Peggy Kemeny who
now lives in New York. She is talking about someone she knows who is
having a rough time with a breast cancer diagnosis. Peggy uses me as an
example of someone who had a worse case and is okay twelve years later.


"You're a medical miracle," she says.


I don't question her, but in the taxi going back to the hotel, I ask Terry,
"What is this medical miracle business?" As we careen through the streets
of Manhattan, Terry tells me the truth that she kept from me for twelve
years.


"When Peggy came out of the operating room she told me that the cancer
was worse than she'd thought. It was deep in the chest wall and she'd had
to remove fifty-three lymph nodes that had cancer cells in them. I asked her
what that meant and she said that you had maybe two years to live, maybe."


I sank back in the seat, stunned. "And you never told me this."


"No, I decided to keep it from you as long as I could. I forbade Peggy
to tell you and she was very upset about it. She said that these days they
always tell the patient the truth. I also forbade Michael to tell you."


"But this is twelve years later and I'm still alive. When did you stop expecting
me to die?"


"About the third year after the surgery."


"And you carried this secret all that time? That must have been very tough
to do."

[p. <i>211</i>]

"It was."


My brain is overloaded, in a state of shock. I have a very strong commitment
to the truth, but I am also a person who tends to obsess. Was it better
for me not to know that I was expected to die so soon? Would I have just
given up and waited for the end? Probably, maybe, I don't know. But I do
know that Terry took on an enormous responsibility. Did she have a right
to do that? Was that courage or arrogance? What a burden to carry alone!
My thoughts are jumbled, tumbling, I feel punchy. I had defied death and
didn't even know it. That I didn't know seemed wrong, and yet so right.
The rest of the cab ride is a blur.


Terry fretted that she shouldn't have told me at all.


"No. No," I protested, "it's best I know."


I'm still not sure. I'm working on it.


While having cancer felt earthshaking at the time, the postsurgical period
had its moments of comic relief. Immediately upon my return from the
hospital I had a private nurse who proved herself to be a menace. First she
left a heating pad on my reconstructed breast, which of course had no sensation
in it. By the time she realized what she'd done, my new breast was
cooked and had to be treated with burn medication. Next, she forgot to
hang onto my weakened frame as I was negotiating the stairs and I tumbled
to the bottom, fortunately not breaking anything that wasn't already broken.
Following the departure of Nurse Nemesis, we hired a woman from a nanny
service. A nanny seemed just right, motherly, kind, and nurturing, but my
nanny was none of those things. She was mean and bossy. When she decided
that Terry reminded her of her own harsh and punishing mother, her "negative
transference" sent her out the door.


Arnold came to us from a <i>Los Angeles Times</i> ad. He was a gentleman of
indeterminate age with an impressive résumé, having worked as a cook/butler
for the Shah of Iran, Baron Guy de Rothschild, and William and "Babe"
Paley. He also adored dogs. By now we had not only elderly Raggy but two
little Yorkie puppies, Minnie and Max. As we talked in the initial interview,
Arnold cuddled our dogs, who all seemed to be mesmerized by him. He was
overqualified for our modest household, but we hired him anyway.


Arnold was a gracious caretaker. He filled the house with flowers and
made wonderful meals. It was only his sense of whimsy that gave me pause.
Arnold loved the way our two little Yorkies tended to run side by side, like

[p. <i>212</i>]

One day I came home to find Arnold in the kitchen cooking. The dogs
were nowhere in sight.


"Arnold, where are the dogs?" I asked.


Without missing a beat, he answered, "The ladies are on the terrace sipping
Calvados, smoking Turkish cigarettes, and reading French novels."


"And Raggy?"


"The gentleman is in the parlor having a cigar and brandy."


"I see. Thank you, Arnold."


In fact, the dogs were in the bedroom, hiding from a scolding, or was it
one of Arnold's periodic demonstrations of smothering affection?


Following Arnold's departure from our household we decided to continue
having help for a while because I was still not at full strength. We advertised
and interviewed several dozen people. They came with their résumés and
photograph albums and endless stories of the movie stars, directors, and
producers they had worked for. To a person, they gossiped about these celebrity
households, which we felt was alarmingly indiscreet even as we hung
on their every word. After a while we began to feel like we were living in a
Jackie Collins novel.


The coup de grâce was the former ballet dancer who had been sidelined
by arthritis in his knees. The dancer's culinary skills were quite good, and
we were satisfied with him until one day I came into the kitchen to find
him sucking on a baby bottle. Startled, I asked him what he was doing. He
said his nutritionist had put him on a diet of carrot juice designed to cure
his arthritis, and he was supposed to drink it out of a baby bottle because
the sucking would cause better absorption of the juice by his body. I was
pretty sure I couldn't cope with a grown man sucking a baby bottle in my
kitchen. So, feeling strong again, I decided I had had enough of helping
hands. We reclaimed our kitchen and rejoiced at being alone in our own
house again.

