Transcript of Audio File:
______________________________________________________________________________
BEGIN TRANSCRIPT:
THERAPIST: - looks like you made the right (inaudible). [You're too] (ph) good for that stuff.
CLIENT: Yes.
THERAPIST: So where should we start?
CLIENT: I was thinking (inaudible) - Tuesday night, Sydney (ph) had a, kind of, scary breakdown, which - I was - he woke up at 5:30 in the morning because he was feeling like he wanted to hurt himself. And, so, I held him and got him to calm down, and everything. And I was fine with the fact that he woke me up at 5:30; it meant that I had to not volunteer the next day because I was just so tired but - and, luckily, he had therapy the next day.
I was, kind of, scared. And, now, he's going to be on different drugs because - yes, part of that was, probably - because he's only been on - he had been on Zoloft and it was - or he had been on Celexa; that sort of worked, but he didn't want to increase the dosage because, I guess, he's genetically at risk for a heart attack, or something. [00:01:20] And Celexa has that risk. So, then, he tried the Zoloft. And, then, this was - this happened with the Zoloft, plus his libido has been sapped (ph).
Because [I mentioned I was going to try] (ph) Wellbutrin, and so the psychiatrist finally got back to him yesterday. But, yes, it was really, really scary. And, then, Wednesday, I had a breakdown. Not like that kind of - nearly as bad as him; I was just feeling panicky for no reason and I took anti-anxiety meds and they didn't do anything. And I was already feeling panicky and, then, he was telling me this (ph) story. That totally set me off and triggered me [in some way] (ph). [00:02:03] I did not expect that to happen.
Because he'd been reading this memoir of this woman who had grown up in really religious Hasidic community and, then, left the community. And, so, this was like something else - that another crime that had happened in the community. It was just so horrific. And, usually, I don't think I've ever been triggered like this before. But it just - I guess, because I was already anxious, it all just - you know - and, then, I needed Sydney (ph) to hold me, and stuff, and eventually I felt better. But the fact that the anti-anxiety meds didn't do anything was really bothersome. [00:03:00]
THERAPIST: Are you taking your anti-anxiety meds consistently or are you waiting until you feel panicked?
CLIENT: I'm waiting until I feel panicked.
THERAPIST: You might want to switch that (ph).
CLIENT: Oh, what? Really?
THERAPIST: Well, I had an opportunity to go to a conference specifically geared for psychologists, and talking about psychopharmacology...
CLIENT: Okay.
THERAPIST: ...and since I know this has been an area that's been really concerning to you and haven't been able to see anyone, although you may have an appointment set up soon - next week, right?
CLIENT: Yes.
THERAPIST: I took the opportunity to go and it was really interesting. Some of the things to which we've, kind of, been adhering, aren't really the newer way of dealing with medications in crisis times, and things like that. So, obviously, going to a conference does not make me able to prescribe; I can't give you suggestions about what to do with your meds or change your dose or anything like that. But I thought it would be a useful place to start the conversation. [00:04:00]
And, then, you have more informed questions to go to the psychiatrist with, who can make decisions about changing medications and changing dosages. But one of the things that the lecturer talked about was, with the benzodiazepines, of which Klonopin is one, a lot of people are under the impression that its best to, kind of, wait for a panic attack to take the medication [and that would be] (ph) helpful. The problem with this scenario, he was saying, was that panic attacks, generally, have a shorter life span anyway; it takes about 30 minutes to 45 minutes for the medication to kick in. For most people, the intense panic has subsided by that time, anyway.
So the medication is not really helping so much with that. But if you take it more regularly, it helps to decrease the baseline and, sort of - not necessarily eliminates (ph) any panic attacks, although it could prevent it, but it takes the baseline anxiety down, in general. [00:05:05] So that, if you get set off, it's not going to peak to the same level. So it can be used a little bit more preventatively than what - how you've been using it and, maybe, what some of the thinking was originally. So that's something to ask the psychiatrist about, to see - you know, since, obviously, you've been under more stress, you've been having a lot more breakthrough panic.
Maybe it does make sense to - you know, should you be using your Klonopin in a regular way; taking a pill in the morning, taking a pill at night. And, kind of, trying to decrease the general buzz (ph) that you've been feeling, overall. So, I think, its one thing to ask about because it was a different - it was different than what I had heard in the past and research changes, thinking changes, on this stuff all the time. We've got to, kind of, keep up with up. The other thing that I thought was really interesting, was I heard Wellbutrin is counter-indicated for people who have anxiety. [00:06:01] And I know that it's one of the antidepressants that is better for you, but I wonder if the good that you're getting from it is outweighed, on the other end, by the fact that it might be upping your anxiety.
CLIENT: I don't think so because I'd rather have anxiety than depression any...
THERAPIST: So it -
CLIENT: I'm allergic to the SSRIs or, if not allergic, highly intolerant; such (ph) that they don't do anything for the depression or the anxiety. So, I think, that - yes, but I'm not - I could ask, but there's no (inaudible) -
THERAPIST: But that was interesting to hear that, that its, kind of - the research has shown that Wellbutrin is not a good option because it does tend to exacerbate anxiety. But, again, I'm not telling you to go off of it...
CLIENT: Yeah. (chuckles)
THERAPIST: ...I'm telling you to ask the psychiatrist that question; that, since there seems to be some indication and literature that Wellbutrin is (ph) contraindicated for anxiety, are there other options. And it did seem like there were some but it's something to look into. [00:07:07]
CLIENT: Other options that weren't SSRIs?
THERAPIST: Yes.
CLIENT: Okay.
(Crosstalk)
THERAPIST: There's been a lot of research on - in other countries, on St. Johns wort, which seems to be as effective as our prescription antidepressants, in places where people are using it more often. So, I mean, it's definitely, I think, questions to ask. We (ph) don't want to be exacerbating symptoms. I, also, don't want you to get no relief from other symptoms.
But the - what your - your current prescriptions are not working well enough; you're having way too much breakthrough anxiety. It's not - that level of symptomatology is not acceptable. I know you're not comfortable with it; I'm not comfortable with you feeling that. And you've been a lot more susceptible to really negative thinking, than you have been in the past, so - not working well enough. [00:08:06]
CLIENT: I've (ph) been working up until the past few months. It had been (ph) ...
THERAPIST: Yes, absolutely, [it had] (ph) been.
CLIENT: And, now, it's just that I have too much anxiety. But it's not like I've increased my dosage of Wellbutrin, or changed to (ph) anything else so...
THERAPIST: No, it's just not - for whatever reason, whether it be what's going on in your life, or some other change, it's not working well enough for you right now.
CLIENT: Yes.
THERAPIST: And, so, we keep trying to combat some of the stress with coping resources in therapy. And I'm happy to increase the frequency of our sessions, to give you extra support, but it makes sense to go in with really good questions, to help catch the psychiatrist up on your history and catch her up on what's - what's been going on for you, right now. [00:09:01]
CLIENT: I just feel so - I don't know, maybe it's because, also, a lot vitamin supplements, or whatever, or herbs with - are less regulated in the U.S., so it's like, "Oh, take - " - if they (ph) were to say, "take St. Johns wort," but it might not be, actually, it, or pure, or whatever or have...
(Crosstalk)
CLIENT: ...other chemicals.
THERAPIST: There are some safeguards against that stuff. And you're right, that there's less regulation, but there's not no regulation. So there are two boards that, actually, do regulate herbal stuff in the U.S. And, so, you would, absolutely, have to be very careful about making sure that those markings (ph) - if that was to be a recommendation, you would have to be really careful to make sure that you're not picking it up anywhere, but that you're checking that the particular ones you're buying have been regulated, either by (inaudible)
I would give you that information if that's the route that you guys decided to go with the psychiatrist. [00:10:01] But, questions to ask; what her experience - is it a woman? I thought you said it was a "her". (pause) Okay. You know, what her experience is with that, if she would recommend that, is that something worth trying with someone with your history, are there some of the, more atypical, medications for depression that might be a better match for your depression and your anxiety. You know, questions to ask.
CLIENT: It just (ph) seems like the idea of going off the Wellbutrin is overwhelming...
THERAPIST: Really scary.
CLIENT: ...and scary. And it doesn't seem like something I (ph) want to do. And I feel like if there's any other option that would work, like less Wellbutrin and, maybe, more Seroquel, or something like that, then the - Id (ph) feel like - rather than completely replacing it with a new drug that isn't even an actual drug, but is an herb, or something to (ph) that - I'm just, very, very skeptical, skeptical even if - that (ph) I'm sure there were actual studies done. Still... [00:11:08]
THERAPIST: There are.
CLIENT: (chuckles) Do they even know how it works or do they just know, "Oh, if you take it and it works - what if that works on the serotonin," or something.
THERAPIST: Well, we, certainly, can do more research. They - with stuff like St. Johns wort and SAMe, which are used a lot in Europe, there's a lot of data on patients being followed, because they're included just like the SSRIs in other countries. If you look at the research in other countries, its much better regulated and understood that these are affecting these kind of symptoms in this way.
CLIENT: But, at the same time, - but you know the SSRIs work on serotonin.
THERAPIST: Yes, they do.
CLIENT: But - and you know that - and, then, the Wellbutrin works on (ph) dopamine, or whatever, but what does the St John's Wort - what does it, actually, do to your brain? Do they know that? [00:12:01] Other...
THERAPIST: That's a good question for the psychiatrist.
CLIENT: Because, if it works on the serotonin, then it would be...
THERAPIST: Yes, so...
CLIENT: ...just as problematic as an SSRI.
THERAPIST: So, I think, that's the question to ask.
CLIENT: Yes.
THERAPIST: And, that - I don't have that level of information. But I think that, that is, absolutely, a question to ask. And I'm not saying that you should take it; I'm saying that we (ph) should look at options, in case there's something that works for you better. And, maybe, that is increasing the Seroquel. Because one of the things that the Seroquel really helps with is the thoughts, for you, that increase your anxiety and thoughts that increase depression.
CLIENT: Yes.
THERAPIST: You know, the persistence of those kinds of thoughts, exacerbate those symptoms. And the Seroquel could (ph) help with those kinds of thoughts. And, maybe, that's - maybe, that's what's leading to having more panic lately.
CLIENT: Maybe. But I haven't been having as much of the thoughts, themselves, so...
THERAPIST: Well, I'm not talking about, just, the intrusive thoughts; I'm, also, talking about when you - when you get panicked about something or when you feel anxious like - [00:13:07] You know, back up to last week, when you were thinking about having to make all the (ph) phone calls. You were thinking about having to call providers and find out what insurance they took, and that kind of thing. Some of the thoughts you have about those kinds of obstacles, get pretty extreme. And you start thinking about, "Oh, well, if I call this person and they don't take my insurance and, then, I have to call the next person. And, then, I'll never find anybody who takes my insurance that has availability."
And you start to get wrapped in those kinds of - that train of thought. The Seroquel could (ph) help with that, too, because those kinds of thoughts are pretty rigid. There's a little bit of logic but its gets really extended, maybe beyond what's realistic, and that - the Seroquel works on things that have a psychotic-like vent (ph). And thoughts that get a little bit irrational are in that - in that same family of types of thoughts. [00:14:01] And, those kinds of thoughts, - you know when you start thinking in a catastrophic way, that leads to panic, or increases panic that you're feeling.
CLIENT: Maybe. But the panic I was feeling on Wednesday, it started out of nowhere. I wasn't panicking about something; I was dyeing wool downstairs and, then, I started feeling panicky. And I went upstairs and, then, Sydney (ph) told me about that incident. And, then, I started feeling worse. I mean, that - but it was already...
THERAPIST: It was already started.
CLIENT: ...already started. And it wasn't even like it was something, an incident, that affects me in any way, shape or form; it's just something so horrific that I was just like, "Oh, my God. I did not want to hear about this."
THERAPIST: That was really upsetting, it sounds like.
CLIENT: Yes. And, usually, I don't get that upset about things like that. And it just (pause) - even now, thinking about it, it (inaudible) to make me upset, but there - [00:15:03] So, lately, those panics have been not about things. I mean, I've also been breaking down about things more easily but these ones were coming from nowhere or, possibly, lack of sleep. Because, since I was up Tuesday night, - I got about six hours of sleep on Tuesday night but...
THERAPIST: But that's not, really, enough.
CLIENT: But it's not, really, enough. So...
THERAPIST: And that does make you more susceptible.
CLIENT: So that might have been what was going on Wednesday but, yesterday, I was fine and did not have to take an anti-anxiety pill for anything, did not break down. (pause) I don't know. (pause) I think, now, that - I have less things I have to do now, so I have less I need to panic about. [00:16:00] But, then again, if it's coming out of nowhere - (pause) - at the same time, I really don't want to go off my antidepressant (pause) because depression is a lot more Jonasgerous than the anxiety, and the anxiety goes away eventually, even if it is - because that panic attack lasted a couple of hours, I think, or - not even like attack, but that feeling of anxiety, it did not dissipate for quite a while. But...
THERAPIST: (inaudible)
CLIENT: ...it's less uncomfortable than depression is. (pause) So I don't know if I will ask her on Tuesday but - because, obviously, something needs to change...
THERAPIST: Right.
CLIENT: ...but I'm just really hoping it isn't my antidepressants that have to change. [00:17:00]
THERAPIST: Well, nobody is - you know, nobody is going to force you to take something or not take something. The idea is to all be as informed as possible and (ph) to make a decision with the best information that is available. So this was something that I happened to come across, this conference. - had you in mind because I know that it's been a complicated question for you. And that was one thing, I knew that were on Wellbutrin. I heard this guy say it's contraindicated for people with anxiety and I thought, "Oh, Georgia is suffering from anxiety. Let me bring this up to her so she can talk with her psychiatrist about it."
CLIENT: I always knew it didn't do anything (inaudible) but -
THERAPIST: Well, that's a different story (ph); that's not the point that this -
(Crosstalk)
THERAPIST: He was saying that it often exacerbates anxiety symptoms for people. And, very often, people have both. A lot of the antidepressants are used for people who have anxiety, and lots of people have both. [00:18:00] So it was just something that - it was a flag that went off for me. When I heard him say that, I thought of the problems that you were having and I wanted to share any information with you, so that you can have a discussion with your new psychiatrist. Not to push you one way or the other, but just to share the information that I heard. (pause)
I wonder what the interaction between what's going on with Sydney (ph) and what's going on with you, because it sounds like he's been having a hard time lately. You've been having a hard time and I wonder how you guys impact one another.
CLIENT: When he gets upset, I will also be upset because I don't want him to be upset...
THERAPIST: Yes, it's hard to watch someone you care about be in pain.
CLIENT: Yes, like yesterday, he had a little bit of a panic attack because he could not find his glasses. [00:19:05] I ended up finding them last night, after we had - because we were - Allison (ph) was in town because today was (inaudible). So we were getting together with her at 2 o'clock. And, so, he had gone up to take a shower, beforehand, and then, when he came back down, could not find his glasses anywhere. And we ended up being a little bit late, which was fine.
I mean, it wasn't like we had that far to go; we were walking there. So we didn't have to worry about him driving without his glasses. And he can see okay without his glasses but he was freaking out about that. And that time, I - that did not set me off into a panic, at least. I was just like, "You know, come on. We can do this. You can get the - we can get together with Allison (ph); you don't actually need your glasses for that. We'll find them eventually."
THERAPIST: Sounds like good, logical thoughts.
CLIENT: And I did find them, eventually. They were underneath the - you know how heaters have - you have the heater that runs along the floor? [00:20:03]
THERAPIST: Yes.
CLIENT: So there's one of those in the bathroom and it (ph) had, somehow, gotten underneath. And I found it late last night and I was like, "Oh, here are your glasses." So, yesterday, it didn't set me off. And, sometimes, if one of us is upset with the - I think it's because we're both a little bit insecure and not wanting other people to be upset with us. So it, sometimes, will - one of us being anxious will feed off - it will - the other person might, also, become anxious, or something. (sighs)
Yes, Tuesday night was scary and - yes.
THERAPIST: Has he ever harmed himself in the past?
CLIENT: No, he has not, as far as I know. But he had me - because, at a certain point, there weren't any tissues in his room and he had been crying. [00:21:02] And, so, he was wanting to use - get some from the bathroom but he had me go in and get it (ph) for him because he keeps his razor in the bathroom. And, if I hadn't been there, he said he, probably, would have been - he would have been able to control himself, and stuff. But he didn't want to take that risk. So, yes, his thoughts (ph) were even way more (inaudible) than mine have been.
He was talking about how he's a failure and - he has a problem with his - the fact he hasn't found a new job yet. He doesn't know what he wants to do with his life because, now, he wants to go back into academia, of which would require a Ph.D. But he doesn't even know, exactly, what he wants to study yet. But - because he'd (ph) always been better at the Classics and, just, hadn't admitted it to himself until college, or after that, even. [00:22:01] And he's, right now, in the tech field. So, yes - so he's dealing with all that, normally. And, so, he was freaking out about that.
And his parents are getting on his case, way more than my parents were (ph). I was able to stick up to my parents and, then, they stopped being - putting pressure on me and being counterproductive, whereas, with his parents, he can't do that because they're not as reasonable. His mom is, probably, somewhere on the Asperger's - autism spectrum because she doesn't, really, understand emotions. And his dad was, also, giving him a hard time and like, "Oh, you should just apply for jobs," or whatever. I don't know what (ph).
But, also, his - and, I guess, his mom would want him, if he was like - you know, if they knew that he was feeling even more depressed, or whatever, they would want him to come back to Kentucky and live with them until he could get his life sorted out. And not have an independent life of his own, whereas, my parents know that if I went home, I'd be miserable. [00:23:10] So, even though he's - they're not supporting him right now. They saved up the money for him to have this giant college fund and he still has it. And he's living off that but the parents aren't, actively, paying him money for anything.
So it's not like they're really affected the same way that my parents are being affected by me not having a job yet. So it's, really, like they have even less right to hassle him about not having a job yet, I think, because he's totally self-sufficient. So (pause) - but, yes, stuff like that's been getting to him and, just, that he was feeling like a failure, and everything else. And I had to tell him that he wasn't a failure and that his parents were the ones that were being unreasonable. And, no, he shouldn't go back to Kentucky. [00:24:01]
And, no, he shouldn't kill himself. And, that, I'd be very sad if he did and et cetera, et cetera. So, yes, whereas, my thoughts have been - I mean, sometimes, they get to that - usually, they don't get quite that far; usually, it's just like, "Oh, I'll never find a job," and "Oh, somehow, me not being able to eat lunch, or whatever, is the most horrible thing ever." And my panics also, usually, don't last as long as his did (ph). But, I mean, it's not like - that was the first time I'd actually seen him that bad. So I'm really hoping that, with him, the change of drugs will make it better. But (pause) - yes.
THERAPIST: It can (ph) be scary to see someone feel so extreme. And it can be draining to be the support person. [00:25:06]
CLIENT: It is but, at the same time, it also means - because whenever I was with Jonas (ph) (ph), I knew that the idea of me having depression, and possibly getting depressed again, totally scared the hell out of him. So if I wasn't feeling so well, I would - if I was going (ph) to be really, really unreasonable, I had to hold it in and not show him how I was feeling. I would, sometimes, ask him for a hug, or something, but I wouldn't - I knew I couldn't break down and panic in front of him. And, in some ways, that's worse because [I have a release] (ph) to be able to express myself. And not feel like I have to put up a front, or something.
THERAPIST: Yes, it's a two-way street.
CLIENT: Yes, so - I mean, and I don't know - I'm wondering if my panic will - [00:26:00] It was this high before I started dating Sydney (ph), right? Or was it when I started - because I can't even tell anymore. I mean, because, before, I was freaking out all the time, too. And it was like - I mean, when I broke up with Jonas (ph), I was taking anti-anxiety pills all the time but...
THERAPIST: (inaudible) breakup was very hard for you.
CLIENT: I don't know. I'm wondering - there is a part of me that wonders if it's part of me panicking - has to do with me dating Sydney (ph). But I enjoy being with him and I don't want it to be that.
THERAPIST: Well, there are, certainly, some issues brought up by the relationship and you feel panic about the issues. I mean, you felt pretty anxious earlier this week, after having lunch out. Part of that was about the environment of that restaurant; you felt overwhelmed, it was loud, there were people really close.
CLIENT: Yes.
THERAPIST: So, that, certainly, wasn't about the relationship. [00:27:01]
CLIENT: Yes.
THERAPIST: The relationship is putting you in some situations that you're trying to figure out. You making a decision about changing how you keep kosher, that's, certainly, a difficult question for you that, it seems like, brings up a lot of uncomfortable feelings. Would you be considering that if you weren't dating Sydney (ph)?
CLIENT: Probably not.
THERAPIST: Probably not. But that doesn't mean it's a problem with the relationship.
CLIENT: Yes.
THERAPIST: I think it's important to separate what's coming from the relationship and what's coming from - there are certain experiences that you're having, that you're - they're affecting you. [Do you think] (ph), in terms of evaluating your relationship, the question is about - well, do you feel comfortable to make a decision that's right for you? Do you feel like he's going to be support? That's important, in that you don't feel unduly pressured.
CLIENT: Yes. And, in general, I think I'm - I don't feel pressured to make decisions that I wouldn't otherwise feel comfortable making. [00:28:06] But, yes. (pause) So -
THERAPIST ?: (inaudible)
CLIENT: Things are okay. And it's not like we ever fight with each other. It's like...
THERAPIST: When you're with him, do you generally feel better about yourself than when you're not?
CLIENT: Yes.
THERAPIST: That seems important.
CLIENT: And I always enjoy being him and hanging out with him and cuddling him - or cuddling with him, rather. And talking to him, and stuff, so -
THERAPIST: So those sound like important - that's important feedback to note (ph).
CLIENT: Yes, I haven't had that much alone time, though. So - because we've, generally, been hanging out at his place or my place and neither of us have jobs yet. I mean, I've (ph) had alone time in the sense of without him there. [00:29:02] I had (inaudible) rehearsal Sunday night and Monday night and Tuesday night, this week; and I'm going to have that again next week, too. And, yesterday, he was at my place but, after we had gotten back from getting together with Allison (ph), I went down to the basement and was doing more dyeing of yarn for another few hours, while he was up in my room, playing computer games, or something else.
THERAPIST: How do you feel about the amount of time you have on your own?
CLIENT: I think it's sufficient. That's one (ph) thing, I've never, ever, been the kind of person who needed my alone time. But that was, also, because I've never been put in a situation where I didn't have alone time, I think. So, I guess, it's a little bit harder to judge that. But - and I think I have enough alone time. [00:30:03] And it's not like I've ever been hanging out with him and being like, "Oh, I need to get off - [I'll have to] (ph) get off to some other place and go away and have him go to his place, or something like that." I've never felt the need to escape.
THERAPIST: There's no right amount of time to have; it's about whether you feel like you have enough time to pursue independent interests. Or, if you're feeling smothered, that's your sign that you need more alone time.
CLIENT: Yes.
THERAPIST: But, if that's not the case - if you feel like you have enough freedom to dye wool, read on your own...
CLIENT: Yes.
THERAPIST: ...get your applications done -
CLIENT: Yes, I've been doing less of the getting applications done, though. But, other than that, I've - because I was feeling - because of the lack of sleep, I ended up not volunteering on Wednesday. And then, Thursday, I was also feeling kind of tired and didn't want to have to get up really early, and stuff. [00:31:07] So I didn't volunteer yesterday, either; also, because I would have had to leave early in order to get together with Allison (ph). But (pause) - but, yes, I do feel a little bit guilty about not having done anything productive this week.
THERAPIST: There's still time left this afternoon.
CLIENT: Some. I have to be over at the concert hall at 5:00 for - we have a concert - we have two concerts tonight. So, I guess, in the few hours in between, I could write a cover letter, or something. And I've - keep on selling even more yarn. So it's not like going and spending time dyeing wool is the most horribly unproductive thing, ever. People have been buying things but I feel like I should be writing cover letters because - [00:32:06]
THERAPIST: Well, you can do both.
CLIENT: I can do both. But, then also, hanging out with Sydney (ph), and stuff, and not having - I guess, Wednesday, I was just so unmotivated, too, because of having everything that - the lack of sleep, and everything else, just made me feel so unmotivated to write any cover letters. And, yesterday, I was more motivated to dye wool, than I was to write cover letters.
And, today, I haven't - I woke up at 9:30. So, I could, it's just like - also, there isn't any position, right now, that's jumping out at me. There were (ph) some that would be okay, but there weren't any, that I've seen in the past week, that were like - if I - like "this is my dream job; I must apply to it (ph)." So that doesn't help, even though I should have - should be applying to these other ones. [00:33:07]
THERAPIST: Things that seem okay, I mean -
CLIENT: Yes.
THERAPIST: You don't want to apply for jobs that you would never be interested in taking, but the dream job might not be available right now. If there's something that would be okay, and gets you in the field, starting to make more connections, that might be a good step.
CLIENT: Yes. It's also, how hard is it to apply for but - yes.
THERAPIST: You are capable of doing hard things.
CLIENT: I am. I just - I don't know why I've been feeling so unmotivated. Because, before, I've - No (ph), I did do productive things this week. I did. It was just, on Wednesday, the productive thing was that I did [were to] (ph) take the small, white bookcase that Joan had left, that I originally thought I wanted and I didn't, out of my room, down the stairs, out of the - out onto the porch, down those stairs, out of the house, all by myself. [00:34:07] And I moved the dresser, from one side to the other, to make room for the air conditioner to go in - and (ph) the desk. And I did that all myself.
THERAPIST: Good for you.
CLIENT: Except for the desk, because that required actually picking it up and not just dragging it. The geometry (ph) didn't work. So I had to wait for Sydney (ph) to get there. But, yes, I did do productive things this week, just - And I'm like, "Okay, now I'm going to, finally, get rid of all the things on my yarn desk. So we can take down the yarn desk and cut it into tiny, little pieces because it was a horrible desk to begin with." So I'm doing those things, it's just not applying for jobs. But, you know, I'd rather - having my room be all neat, and being able to find my stuff, is a more immediate reward than sending out this cover letter, that may or may not get me an interview. [00:35:04]
THERAPIST: It's much more noticeable that you get an immediate feedback, and you see it, and your room feels better.
CLIENT: Yes. I knew I was doing something. And that's what I was doing; I was moving things around so I actually had room. And we had gone to the hardware store on Tuesday, and now I have a lamp. So it is a floor lamp that actually bounces light off the ceiling, so I can actually have light in the room. And we got these two prong to three prong adapters and all sorts of things. So, now, the room is more livable; it's still a little bit chaotic (ph), but it's a lot better than it had been. That makes me feel better. It just doesn't get me...
THERAPIST: A job.
CLIENT: ...a job. (chuckles)
THERAPIST: To find ways to have time for both in your day. And if you can motivate yourself, my guess is you could fit a lot more in. [00:36:00] - that you can do - spend some time organizing your room and making the space a lot more conducive to feeling comfortable in there and, also, spend two hours sending out a good cover letter and, maybe, even filling out an application, if it requires one of those.
CLIENT: Yes.
THERAPIST: You can make space for both of those - both parts of your life.
CLIENT: Yes.
THERAPIST: Because your job is to get a job, but you also live.
CLIENT: Yes.
THERAPIST: You can do both things.
CLIENT: And, I guess, the other thing is, also, once I do have a job, I will have less time to things like organize my room, and stuff. So it's kind of...
THERAPIST: But you will still have time. People manage to go to work and come home at night and go out for dinner or spend time doing chores - cleaning their room. Not everything is going to - you're not going to work 16 hours a day.
CLIENT: No, but people are often tired when they come home from work, if they're working eight hours a day. [00:37:00] And they're not going to want to organize all the (ph) things, and stuff.
THERAPIST: You might find that you have more energy than you anticipate. Sometimes, doing more actually keeps you motivated - keeps you moving.
CLIENT: Yes.
THERAPIST: And one of - one of the symptoms of depression is feeling like you don't have a lot of energy. And, when you're more active, that actually helps you stay out of depression and you have more energy to work with.
CLIENT: Yes. (pause) (inaudible) I do feel like I have less energy than I've been having but - and I'll get into these moods, and do all the things, and then I'll - but they'll be passing (ph) and, then, I lose (ph). And, I guess, too, all the things - it's more physical. Moving stuff from one room to the other is more physical than writing cover letters. And, so, I guess, I'm having more physical energy and less mental energy. [00:38:05] (pause) I don't know. I guess is just because I'm like, "Oh well, if I keep on putting off doing this part of the room, I'll never get it done. I'd rather do this first and have it be a completed thing than - "
THERAPIST: It feels nice to be able to finish something, [check something off] (ph), and see the - get to see the results so immediately, in something like working on your room or dyeing wool. And you get to see your finished product.
CLIENT: Yes.
THERAPIST: And I know it's hard to devote a lot of time and energy to cover letters, which feel so -
CLIENT: Yes.
THERAPIST: You send them off and you don't get a response for a long time. And you haven't, obviously, had good responses to a lot of them.
CLIENT: Yes, I've only gotten two interviews this entire time. And one of them I boffed (ph) and the other one was a position that would have been completely not worth it, at all. So - and I'm like - [00:39:00] now, it's been a week since I've sent out that one to the Business School and I haven't heard back from them. So I'm like, "Okay, I probably didn't get either of those positions." Or they might be moving slowly.
THERAPIST: Yes. And I hope - I hope you're wrong; I hope that that's not the case, that they - that you didn't get them. But it's hard not to know and it's hard to wait for an answer. And it's a very difficult process to sit through.
CLIENT: Yes. I don't know. And I don't know how to motivate myself, other than, "Oh, I have to do this thing," which isn't really a good motivation.
THERAPIST: How about, "If I do this thing, I can be rewarded with (pause)" - And set something up for yourself to be a reward, for having completed a certain number.
CLIENT: Yes, the problem is I have to find a reward that isn't going to stress me out. Like if the reward was like, "Oh, if I write 10 cover letters, I can buy this really nice skein of yarn," then the fact that I'm buying this really nice skein of yarn with this money that is still coming from my parents, or something - you know, it's not going to be completely stress free. [00:40:15]
THERAPIST: What about, "I will let myself go dye the next batch (ph) of wool, when I'm finished with three cover letters"?
CLIENT: It (ph) might work but, sometimes, I don't have the energy for dyeing wool, slash, or the time to do it all. So that one's a little bit harder to do. I mean, it might work but - also, because sometimes I have stuff that I, actually, do need to dye; if people did buy something that was made to order, then - I always give myself like - I wrote, for those, it's like, "this thing I will dye it in - up to three weeks after you've bought it," so it's not like its immediate. But it's like I do need to dye wool before "x" time, whether or not I've written the three cover letters. [00:41:05] So sometimes I can do that and sometimes I (inaudible) -
THERAPIST: So you give yourself three weeks?
CLIENT: Yes.
THERAPIST: You could, probably, write three cover letters in the span of three weeks.
CLIENT: Probably.
THERAPIST: I don't see anything that would stop you from being able to fulfill that.
CLIENT: Yes. Well, other than if I didn't find three positions I wanted write cover letters for. So, yes. But, with - I don't know - I feel like rewarding myself with something that I actually do have to do, is not that good of a reward, either. And spending the money might be less of a bad idea than - yes, it's just - like Sydney (ph), he's like, "Oh, you should treat yourself." [I feel] (ph) it's not really treating myself if I'm buying this thing for myself with this money that I am getting from my parents, and not from myself. [00:42:05] It is still going to stress me out, somewhat.
THERAPIST: So a non-monetary reward.
CLIENT: A non-monetary reward and - a non-monetary reward that isn't linked to something that I have to do anyway.
THERAPIST: Okay, so what would that be? What do you enjoy that doesn't cost money?
CLIENT: Watching shows, and stuff like that, but I'm doing a lot of watching TV with Sydney (ph). And I don't want to be like, "Oh, well, I can't do this thing with you until I've written these three cover letters," because, then, it's negatively affecting him.
THERAPIST: Not if you hold yourself accountable to it; it doesn't have to negatively affect him. And that might be part of the motivation, right?
CLIENT: (inaudible)
THERAPIST: If it's not something - if not doing the work piece doesn't affect later, then there's not, really, any motivation to do it. [00:43:01]
CLIENT: True.
THERAPIST: But if you really don't want to give up on your time with him, and you link it toward being accountable for doing something else, that's where some of the power is.
CLIENT: Maybe. It's just the problem of, like if he is feeling bad and wants a - I guess, he can also watch something else, by himself. He doesn't...
THERAPIST: He could or...
CLIENT: ...need me.
THERAPIST: ...you could do the work so that you could do it.
CLIENT: Yes. But, if he wanted to watch something right then and I hadn't finished my cover letter just yet, then it doesn't (sighs) - I guess it would be a better idea than the other two ideas. So it might be something but I'm just worried that it will negatively impact my relationship with him, or something - or I'm punishing for not being able to get my stuff done because its, now, linked to something that affects him and not just like, "Oh, I can't (ph) do this thing on my own." So, I mean, does that make any sense? [00:44:03]
THERAPIST: It makes sense. Is it a good decision for you? I don't know.
CLIENT: Yes.
THERAPIST: I understand that you don't want him to feel disappointed, and that you don't want to miss out on doing something with him.
CLIENT: Yes.
THERAPIST: Is it reasonable for you to always be available, at a moment's notice, to do something? No.
CLIENT: Yes.
THERAPIST: I mean, what if you had to go to work?
CLIENT: That's true.
THERAPIST: And this is your job right - and you, kind of, have to think, about applying for jobs, that is your job right now. So, if you had to work - if you were set up to (inaudible) - regardless of whether a show - whether he was in the mood to watch a particular show right then, or was motivated to go take a walk with you at that moment, you already had another commitment. And, I think, that looking at applying to jobs in a reasonable timeframe, that's your commitment right now. [00:45:02]
That's being accountable to yourself because what you really want is to get a job. And you can't do that without really dedicating time, and making it a priority, to do the things that get you a job. One of those things is sending out cover letters, filling out applications - another thing could be networking. I know you really feel uncomfortable with that but you've got to do one of the things. You can't push those things, all, aside.
CLIENT: Yes. With networking, it's also like - its one thing to network with someone you know, or at an event, or something. But, to call up random strangers is not, really - that's just calling up random strangers and asking for a job, or something.
THERAPIST: I'm not - I'm saying that you need to do one of the things that lead (ph) to jobs.
CLIENT: (pause) [00:46:00] I really wish that someone would just hand me a job.
THERAPIST: That would be nice.
CLIENT: Or, if not hand me a job, like had something that was open. And [it would] (ph) be like, "Oh, Georgia (ph) would be perfect for that." But that's - I mean, it's happened with summer jobs, and stuff, just not with real jobs that are in the field, or anything like that.
THERAPIST: Well, if that happens, you take advantage of it.
CLIENT: Yes.
THERAPIST: But I don't think you can wait on that.
CLIENT: Yes. And it's not even like there's any other related job that I could do right now or, even, somewhat related.
THERAPIST: And who knows what you're looking for and what you would like, that would be able to say, "Ah, Georgia (ph) is perfect for that"? Are there people that are out there thinking of you like that?
CLIENT: Not, actually, in my field. So -
THERAPIST: Is there a way for more people to be thinking of you like that?
CLIENT: I don't know. There's this one person who [I've been networking] (ph) with, that I have to e-mail, but that's one person. [00:47:02]
THERAPIST: Okay. But, hey, if there's - you know, if you want someone to - if you want someone to be aware of you and what you're looking for, then they have to know that. And, if that's one person that you know that could potentially have that kind of light bulb moment and think, "Oh, I just heard about this thing that Georgia (ph) would be perfect for. And I know she's interested in blah, blah, blah - " You've got to, as much as possible, think about who those people are. And, if there's one person you have in mind, that's great; it's better than none.
CLIENT: Yes. (inaudible) this is a person that my supervisor at the historical society knows and was like, "Oh, you should write her." And I'm like, "Okay." - and wrote an e-mail to both of us, so I need to write her back.
THERAPIST: You should definitely do that, yes. That's your chore, between now and when you have to (inaudible) rehearsal.
CLIENT: Okay.
THERAPIST: Not -
(Crosstalk)
CLIENT: - writing a cover letter, then; just, the writing this person?
THERAPIST: If you can do both, awesome. But it sound like that's a personal contact - that your supervisor has started the process of linking you up with. That's really important. [00:48:03]
CLIENT: And, I guess, it will take long enough for me to figure out what I'm actually going to be saying in that e-mail. But it, probably, will take long enough that I'm not also writing a cover letter, too.
THERAPIST: You can push that cover letter until Monday but, it sounds like - yes, if there's a person that could think of you, and is in the field, that's what you're looking for.
CLIENT: Yes.
THERAPIST: So that's a useful homework assignment. That would make you feel like you were productive in your room this week and, also, did something positive, and productive, in the job search. Why don't we stop there, for today, and I'll let you go get started on that.
CLIENT: Okay (ph).
THERAPIST: And I'll see you Monday.
(Background conversation inaudible)
END TRANSCRIPT
