<font size="4"><b>Chapter VI: September, 1941 - The Persistent Arrival</b></font>

Perhaps I was not so sure of myself when on 17th
September I had to be taken again to hospital. I had chosen
my specialist from the various names offered to me. I had
been tempted to go to a woman doctor, well-known for her
work in mental problems, and I felt as if God was indeed at
work when I found her daughter was the medical student
assisting at the hospital. The doctor put in charge of me
at the hospital had been the student doctor of my first
arrival in 1939.


My "research" had brought me again among other
"researchers" but not in the way I had hoped. I found
experience to dull my ardour for enjoyment and to heighten
my ardour for constructive work I found a doctor willing
to meet me in my desire for discussion but his experience
made my desires seem impossible of execution. He said
once, "What you would like would be one doctor to ten
or a dozen patients." I indeed felt that the problems of
the patient were such that a home where one doctor was in
charge of a dozen would be ideal. I must have expressed
to him some of my thoughts on the relationships of man
and woman. I remember one remark which gave cause
for thought, "Perhaps you are not willing to be a woman."
My diary would have shown him that I had at least been
viewing the possible careers open to me. I had decided
that writing seemed to show some possibilities. In my
letter to the superintendent I had, I think, invited suggestions
on some way of training as a student of mental
problems.

[p. <i>46</i>]

The young lady medical student showed that she had
realised my "thunderstorms." She showed me a poem by
W. H. Davies expressive of his recurrent moods.


She brought me this on 1st October, so my first fortnight
must have given evidence of the thunderstorms and the
rain of words.


In November the rain of words had perhaps passed
into gentler showers. I report:


"Walk to-night in the groundswonderful feeling of
companionship. I used to have it in Crieff Woods
where I felt exactly where to go and which path to
take. I hope I shall always keep this feeling of
spiritual companionship or will remember it to keep
my faith in unseen things. The guidance may not
be so evident when the supreme need is past, but it is
so lovely that I want to feel it always. I continually
thank God for this wonderful experience and pray
that I may be worthy of some service in which I may
help others to the same feeling of fellowship with
Christ."


In November, 1941, I was walking with faith that,
whether I got what I wished or not, a Power I could trust
was in control of my life. At the end of November I was
discharged and returned again to a long-suffering family.

[p. <i>47</i>]

I was again among the unemployed. I was still a
student seeking a way to help without knowing where help
could be offered. The doctor had told me my concern for
patients was an obsession. I did not agree that it was an
obsession any more than my interest in teaching mathematics.
I had experience which I had wished to use in a
fruitful way. But all the encouragement I got was that I
was temperamentally unsuited to work in the sphere of
mental health.


I quote from my diary of 1st December, 1941:


"Came home from C.H. yesterday. Home-coming
proves happy but change-over rather tiring.


Yesterday waited for the doctor at 10.30
remained till 11.30 and decided on walk. Dull day.
Met Miss W. She is a difficult patient because everyone
wishes to help her and she has lost all interest in
life. Met Dr H. looking for me. He has been very
kind. At first I could not see it but both he and Prof.
must have been puzzled to know how to deal with
me. He says my concern for patients is an obsession.
I don't agree. It was no more an obsession than my
interest in teaching and the interest that most people
have in the war.


They may talk all day to everybody. I chose
those to whom I talked and tried to refrain if I found
them not interested. My interest in teaching was
given vent at school or with scholastic friends and
the home people did not hear much of it, except when
teacher friends came in and then "shop" was endured.
My interests now are religion and mental illness
both connected in the case of the world war and in the

[p. <i>48</i>]

I come home to find the atmosphere much more
harmonious. We have all got going at the family
meals and I feel sure that we have gained a lot from
the last two years of suffering.


Dr H. struck home when he said I thought everyone
was sick except Miss Morrison! I accept the
rebuke but feel my sickness should have been dealt
with on my first visit. It was not that I came home
too soon because nothing was being done for me at
C.H., and family problems have to be sorted out at
home. Whose fault that my first visit did not complete
cure? Mine? Fear? Want of trust? I
don't know."


It is evident that I still had memories of the breakdown
of September, 1939, and September, 1941, and I still had
explanations to offer on behalf of the mental patient or in
justification of myself.


I had returned from hospital with something still

[p. <i>49</i>]

I had contemplated writing as a way of service but the
story I had to tell was so involved and so personal that I
did not think of committing it in book form for the reading
of the general public.


My diary at the end of the year 1941 records:


"The last day of a strange year in my life and in the life
of the world. For me it has been a year of mental
disturbance and growth. What will the New Year
bring forth ? This year finishes with a feeling of 'something
accomplished, something done.' Now I should
like to go on and find in the new year some work."


I had felt free of a weight when I had had an interview
with the doctor before Christmas. The contact with
hospital was broken when I heard that the doctor had gone
on war service. My contact with a medical fellow-student
needed some replacement.


The psychiatrist has a type of patient whom he desscribes
as a "hanger-on"a person who finds so much need
of the doctor's control or the doctor's friendship that, when
the cure seems to be complete, he cannot tear himself away.
(It may be the doctor's treatment has taken something from
him which he required for independent living). Perhaps I
could be designated a "hanger-on" but my returns were
always those of a person who felt she had something to give
as much as a need to receive.


What did I in 1942 have to give?


(1) Insistence that the cure of mental ills must be based
firstly on the way of truth.


(2) My services in any constructive way of employment
where my sympathy could be of use to others.


(3) The work of propaganda to inform others of the needs

[p. <i>50</i>]

(4) The results of much thought on the ways of spiritual
guidance and the need for co-operative spiritual
fellowship.


My services were not acceptable to the hospital staff and
unemployment did not suit me for long. New Year, 1942,
found me still with the spirit of adventure looking forward.


Davidson Clinica clinic combining church and
medical help for the mentally anxioushad made a start in
Edinburgh. I had noted something of its aims and, of
course, I had been interested.

