Transcript of Audio File:
______________________________________________________________________________
BEGIN TRANSCRIPT:
CLIENT: So a scheduling thing. You said you out of town Memorial Day weekend. I said I was also but I had gotten the dates wrong. It's the weekend after that I will be out of town that Monday.
THERAPIST: Okay.
CLIENT: I don't know whether we should reschedule or just see you twice a week for the next two weeks or what we should do.
THERAPIST: Let's see. What would you prefer to do?
CLIENT: (laughs) I honestly don't know.
THERAPIST: Oh, okay.
CLIENT: The week has been better.
THERAPIST: Good.
CLIENT: (inaudible at 00:00:38) improving. I guess I'd prefer to try to reschedule (inaudible) time.
THERAPIST: Yeah. (inaudible at 00:00:46) Yeah okay. So next week Monday is the 28<sup>th</sup>.
CLIENT: Um, yes.
THERAPIST: All righty. Okay. I just noticed that I have something at 11:30 on Wednesday but that doesn't help us. (inaudible at 00:01:09) right after we meet. So we've got Tuesday or Friday. How about Friday at 4:30?
CLIENT: That would work. Yeah. [00:01:36]
THERAPIST: Okay.
CLIENT: Yeah I have an appointment at 2:30 anyway so I'll already be here.
THERAPIST: Okay.
CLIENT: And then I think I'm not coming back— the week after that I think I'm not coming back until Tuesday.
THERAPIST: Okay.
CLIENT: So —
THERAPIST: You're going to be looking at Friday?
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: Okay. Let's see. I could do that same time again. How is that?
CLIENT: Yeah that'd be fine.
THERAPIST: Yeah?
CLIENT: Thanks.
THERAPIST: So that would be the 8<sup>th</sup> instead of the 4<sup>th</sup> right?
CLIENT: Yes. [00:02:33]
THERAPIST: Okay.
CLIENT: Okay. Yeah I mean things are improving. I still kind of melt down periodically. But I'm not like kind of completely sucked down in the way that I have been recently.
THERAPIST: Good.
CLIENT: Yeah. Yeah. I had a long conversation with my sister.
THERAPIST: Mm-hmm.
CLIENT: Kind of talked through things in a good way. Yeah. In a way that kind of made sense to both of us. I think that worked out in some ways. And not like a lot of what had been going on with me right before I came to see her she hadn't known about. You know and she said, "Well yeah I guess I—." [00:03:49]
I think it came out of left field for her for me to be upset about how that had happened. For me to be upset about the way that we had all kind of—but I mean I was pretty clear about saying like, "Athena I'm not saying that this something that you are doing. I'm saying this is something that we are doing."
THERAPIST: Mm-hmm.
CLIENT: And she said, "Well in my mind you are always first." She said.
THERAPIST: She said. [00:04:21]
CLIENT: Yeah. And (laughs) — I admit it's nice. And it's true that like — I work kind of differently from most people in my family. Like when we all get together as a family I have to kind of be careful to set boundaries and be off by myself a lot more. And it's kind of been a process for everybody to be like, "Okay yeah. This is what Tanya needs. And that's fine." And they (inaudible at 00:04:59) been really good kind of recognizing that and supporting me in that.
There is like this hive mentality about us. Which is really fun and I'm like really pleased to be part of it but it's also like when one person goes someplace everybody has to go. Like everyday it's like, "Let's go on an adventure." And everybody has to go somewhere. [00:05:26]
THERAPIST: (chuckles)
CLIENT: And — yeah. Yeah. And I just need a lot more space.
THERAPIST: Mm-hmm.
CLIENT: Yeah. And she did say she felt like that day she had just done what she needed to do. She apologized. And I said, "It's not a big deal." And we kind of (inaudible at 00:06:06). And she as it turns out is actually doing much better than I thought she was or has been in the last several weeks.
THERAPIST: Well good.
CLIENT: Yeah it was just really nice to hear.
THERAPIST: That's good news.
CLIENT: Yeah so I'm not so worried about her. And I talked to my friend [Ashley] yesterday. I was writing her an e-mail. [00:06:33]
THERAPIST: (inaudible)
CLIENT: Yeah. And I was writing her an e-mail and was I like, "You know what is better than e-mail? Face to face communication." And (inaudible at 00:06:41) That's good. She has cats. She's so into her cats. She's like, "I'm going to go find a cat!" I've been like — well it made an expectation of — she was acting like I had asked her to go find the cats and show them to me. (laughter) (inaudible at 00:07:04) I like cats. [00:07:04]
THERAPIST: Right.
CLIENT: But it was definitely like she really wanted to hang out with the cats.
THERAPIST: I see.
CLIENT: And it's very cute. Yeah so it's — I feel like I've been able to kind of reach out to other people a little bit more. And that's good.
THERAPIST: Yeah.
CLIENT: I still feel weird though. Like it's a strange world. (laughs)
THERAPIST: Uh-huh. How so? [00:07:50]
CLIENT: (pause at [00:07:51] to 00:08:00) I'm not sure how to describe it. I was in a play once in high school. The Playboy of the Western World. I don't know if you know it. It's an Irish play. And it's really, really good. But it's — the set designer built the stage — basically built a stage for the play that was tilted like this.
THERAPIST: Mm-hmm. Is that forwards towards the audience?
CLIENT: Yeah. Yeah. You are the audience.
THERAPIST: Okay. (inaudible at 00:08:30)
CLIENT: Yeah so it was like tilted completely off to kind of feel like the whole moral code of the play is completely bonkers.
THERAPIST: Uh-huh.
CLIENT: And I feel like I'm standing on a stage that's just like uhhh. And so now I'm kind of used to it being this way. But then it keeps changing and I keep adjusting. And things keep changing around me. So right now I'm at a point where I'm okay with things more but (sighs) — I don't know. [00:09:20]
I still feel like my world is really out of — off center. Or as though the things that have had central meaning to me now mean something different. Or I'm still figuring out what that is. I don't know. If that makes any sense. So trying to be patient and kind of think things through. (pause at [00:10:01] to 00:10:19)
Like it's so strange not being in school. Not having anything that I need to be working on. It is so strange. And it's a huge relief. But it also is freaking me out because I still feel like there is stuff that I need to be doing that I'm not doing. So idleness is really not okay. (laughs) [00:10:44]
THERAPIST: (laughs) Right.
CLIENT: In fact there is nothing that is more pressing on my time than watching Season 5 of Dr. Who. (laughing)
THERAPIST: (laughs) Right.
CLIENT: That is so weird for me.
THERAPIST: Sort of like a recovering graduate student.
CLIENT: (laughs) Something like that. Yeah.
THERAPIST: I mean just with the continual press of "I could be working on this, that or the other thing." Whatever time of day.
CLIENT: Uh-huh.
THERAPIST: Yeah.
CLIENT: (pause at [00:11:16] to 00:11:25) Yeah. I read Heart of Darkness this weekend.
THERAPIST: Uh-huh.
CLIENT: And it was the best time in my life for me to read Heart of Darkness honestly. I've been avoiding since high school.
THERAPIST: Oh really? Never read it?
CLIENT: Never read it. Never had to read it because my English teachers hated it also, I think. They're like, "Yeah this is great literature. We're going to put it on the optional list." (laughs) So yeah I just sat down and read it. Yeah it was a really good time in my life because they're kind of like darkness at the center of the human spirit. Like I really get that. [00:11:57]
THERAPIST: (laughs)
CLIENT: (laughs) But in actual fact — it's brilliant but I still have no idea why they still — why everybody has to read it in high school. I think it's silly. (pause at [00:12:09] to 00:12:22) Yeah. (pause at [00:12:22] to 00:12:30)
THERAPIST: What else comes to mind?
CLIENT: I'm eating again which is good. I didn't eat very much last week. I think a combination of getting over [food poisoning] to just not feeling up to it. [00:12:41]
THERAPIST: Yeah. Sure.
CLIENT: So that's good. (pause at [00:12:45] to 00:13:00) I don't know. I started to freak out about not having a job and not having an apartment. And I mean I have an apartment and I am getting paid but you know that's only until the end of the summer.
THERAPIST: Right.
CLIENT: And — yeah. The great void beyond.
THERAPIST: Right. Do you get paid through the end of the summer?
CLIENT: I do. Yeah. I finally — it was one of those things. Bureaucracy kind of. Nobody seemed to know. (laughs) But I finally, definitely found out that I will get paid through the end of the summer. And I will not be cheating the system if I get a job. I called the financial aid office and asked them, "Can I accept this grant if I'm applying for jobs now?" And they said yes. [00:13:49]
THERAPIST: Oh good. Yeah.
CLIENT: It didn't seem to make much sense to the person who was on the other end of the phone either but that's — whatever. That's not my problem. Yeah so I've got like a cushion. But —. Yeah I guess I'm kind of casting around for things to worry about and this comes up. (pause at [00:14:20] to 00:14:33)
THERAPIST: Do you mean at the moment you're consciously — are you consciously casting about for things to worry about or is that what you find yourself doing?
CLIENT: This is what I find myself doing. [00:14:42]
THERAPIST: Yeah. Okay. Yeah. (inaudible at 00:14:44)
CLIENT: Yeah. I haven't heard back from Franco or Sascha yet. I haven't heard back from (inaudible at 00:15:00) yet but I haven't been worrying about that. I think because there is nothing I can do about it. And I kind of wrestled with that and decided, "Okay I've done my part. I've done what I can. That I can let go." But I [can always] be doing more in terms of looking for jobs and apartments.
THERAPIST: Right.
CLIENT: So it's like that has taken over where graduate school used to be.
THERAPIST: I see.
CLIENT: (laughs) Like there is always more.
THERAPIST: (inaudible at 00:15:29)
CLIENT: That I should be doing.
THERAPIST: Yeah.
CLIENT: Yeah kind of creeping paralysis that makes it hard for me to do anything. I can never decide whether it's because I'm naturally, incredibly lazy or whether it's because the sensation of not working all the time is so — it doesn't happen very often. And so I just like wallow in it and then don't know how to get out of it. Or what. But this is what always happens at breaks for me. [00:16:09]
THERAPIST: I see.
CLIENT: I just don't do anything and then I feel bad about myself.
THERAPIST: And not doing anything means like reading novels and watching TV?
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: And I guess reaching out to people some?
CLIENT: Yeah. Yeah. And making things. (pause at [00:16:36] to 00:17:38)
THERAPIST: Yeah I guess I'm sort of curious to see where your mind goes when it doesn't feel like there is anything so pressing.
CLIENT: Um, well I look for the next pressing thing. (laughs) It's that vague. [00:18:02]
THERAPIST: Uh-huh.
CLIENT: Yeah I — the pattern is that the longer I go — I mean I feel like I've really just been kind of resting up emotionally in the last week. And that's been important but the instant I feel like I'm well again or I feel like I have bounced back — that's kind of been the last day or so — then there is no lag at all between that and feeling like I'm not doing what I should be doing. So I mean the pattern is that in the next few days I'll kind of both continue to not really do anything and kind of increasingly despise myself for it. [00:19:04]
(pause at [00:19:04] to 00:19:16) I'm a terrible graduate student. I don't know why I thought graduate school was a good idea. (laughs) I mean I do. It's just like the construction of graduate school like plays on everything that I — it just hits all of my weaknesses.
THERAPIST: I see.
CLIENT: You know. I can't handle the term. Then I can't the handle the break. (pause at [00:19:37] to 00:20:31)
THERAPIST: Well I don't really have any pressing issues for us to work on at the moment. [00:20:34] (laughter) (inaudible)
CLIENT: Okay. (laughs) (pause at [00:20:41] to 00:20:52)
THERAPIST: Am I making sense?
CLIENT: Sort of. But now I feel like there is a lot of pressure on me. (laughs)
THERAPIST: Oh.
CLIENT: Like if you don't have any pressing issues now I have to come up with the next thing. (laughs)
THERAPIST: All you've got to do is just say what comes to mind. (inaudible at 00:21:10)
CLIENT: Yeah you keep saying that. (laughs)
THERAPIST: [I know. I know.] If it hasn't already it's going to get very tiresome very (inaudible at 00:21:16)
CLIENT: (laughing)
THERAPIST: I can motivate or explain that a little more if that would help.
CLIENT: Actually yeah. Well, yeah.
THERAPIST: Sure. Do you have particular questions? Or do you want me to talk generally?
CLIENT: Um, talk generally. [00:21:33]
THERAPIST: Okay. So I think usually the way to go for this sort of therapy — not always and not in some circumstances — is via free association. Which is basically saying whatever comes to mind even if it seems unimportant, irrelevant, inappropriate or whatever. Just throw it out there. And which requires some trust or faith that something useful will emerge or happen at some point.
And the reason I think that's a good idea is (pause at [00:22:32] to 00:22:50) — I guess I think it is kind of generally a good way or the easiest way to get at what really matters and is often unconscious. When one tries to discriminate more in choosing what to talk about or how to talk about it. [00:23:27]
CLIENT: Mm-hmm.
THERAPIST: One resorts to different sort of framework that can obscure the more (inaudible at 00:23:51) matters.
CLIENT: I'll try that.
THERAPIST: So yeah that's really where I was coming from.
CLIENT: Yeah. No that makes sense. That's really helpful.
THERAPIST: So yeah. Oh good.
CLIENT: It just kind helps me understand where you're coming from.
THERAPIST: Sure.
CLIENT: And what you're trying to do.
THERAPIST: Yeah.
CLIENT: Okay.
THERAPIST: I (inaudible at 00:24:10).
CLIENT: I haven't asked.
THERAPIST: Yeah. (inaudible at 00:24:13)
CLIENT: In part. (laughter) It's kind of been like a discipline for me of trying to trust you consciously. [00:24:27]
THERAPIST: I see.
CLIENT: I'm not saying, "How or what you trying to do here?"
THERAPIST: Oh. Okay. Yeah so that's — yeah. I was not trying to (inaudible at 00:24:38) therapy.
CLIENT: (laughs) Okay. (inaudible at 00:24:42)
THERAPIST: Yeah. Generally how I encourage people to proceed in here is just say whatever comes to mind. Again, not really discriminating. And —.
CLIENT: That's going to be hard for me.
THERAPIST: Sure. And it inevitably — Well I'd be interested to hear why you anticipate it will be hard for you in particular. Inevitably it gets difficult. And everybody to some extent consciously and to some extent — in my view anyway — unconsciously censors what they talk about and where they're going. [00:25:32]
CLIENT: Mm-hmm.
THERAPIST: And often that's part of what emerges to be looked at and talked about.
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: And what makes things difficult to get to or uncomfortable.
CLIENT: Yeah. I think that's going to be hard for me. In part because I've been in a lot of therapy.
THERAPIST: Uh-huh.
CLIENT: And so I have pretty clear expectations about what gets talked about and what doesn't get talked about.
THERAPIST: Oh.
CLIENT: Or about what gets talked about anyway. And probably unconscious expectations about what doesn't get talked about. If that makes sense. I've just like — I have a model of how this goes. And this is different from that model.
THERAPIST: I see.
CLIENT: Which is good. Very good. Yeah. I also — basically I spend my whole day having conversations with people in my head. Right now you're one of the people that I have a lot of conversations with in my head. So sometimes I can't remember whether I've actually said something to you or just in my head. (laughs) [00:26:49]
THERAPIST: Sure. Sure.
CLIENT: So if seems like I think that you know way more than you actually do that's probably what's happened.
THERAPIST: Sure. I understand. Yeah.
CLIENT: But I also do curate my speech pretty carefully. I guess — I mean I feel like most of the time when I don't pay close attention to what I say I end up hurting people.
THERAPIST: Mm.
CLIENT: I end up getting carried away and so I — yeah.
THERAPIST: Yeah.
CLIENT: I'm kind of watchful in that way.
THERAPIST: I see. As far as having expectations for how therapy ought to go and what should and shouldn't be talked about, in my view when there is sort of an important extent to which one cannot know. You just can't know what is going to emerge that matters. It may be twelve associations down the road from the thing that seems inconsequential that you bring up first. [00:28:04]
CLIENT: Uh-huh.
THERAPIST: But that — the picture midway or later on in treatment always looks quite different.
CLIENT: Uh-huh.
THERAPIST: I mean that's not to say people don't come in — especially when things are more acute and there is more crisis — it's important to talk about what's going on. But usually that's what's on your mind anyway to some extent.
CLIENT: Mm-hmm.
THERAPIST: Yeah I'm not trying to forget all that but I am saying that — I don't think either one of us can readily predict a lot of what's going to emerge that's really going to matter. I don't mean that you don't know about yourself or your life but I do mean I guess that like the rest of us have important blind spots about it. [00:29:01]
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: (inaudible at 00:29:02) that.
CLIENT: Yeah. No I —
THERAPIST: Probably not (inaudible).
CLIENT: No I think that's a really good way to proceed. It scares the shit out of me but that's probably a good thing. (laughing) I mean that is kind of how I approach therapy actually. When I start getting scared, then I say, "Okay. I'm probably going in the right direction." (laughs)
THERAPIST: Yeah. Sure. I understand.
CLIENT: Okay. Well here is something.
THERAPIST: Sure.
CLIENT: I was extremely impressed — I had this shirt that I never wear. I wear it like three times a year because I love it— but the feelings are boring, kissing is awesome shirt. You didn't even blink. I was so impressed.
THERAPIST: (laughing)
CLIENT: (laughs) So. Well done. Like most of my clothes that's a kind of a [fuck you depression] shirt. [00:30:10]
THERAPIST: (laughs) Is that what that was?
CLIENT: (laughing) Yeah.
THERAPIST: Oh. Okay.
CLIENT: It got warm enough to wear a T-shirt. But I also I have a shirt that says, "There now I'm not naked anymore." (laughs)
THERAPIST: That's funny.
CLIENT: (inaudible at 00:30:30)
THERAPIST: Uh-huh.
CLIENT: Yeah. But um —
THERAPIST: What did you expect?
CLIENT: Oh I just thought you'd laugh.
THERAPIST: Oh. (laughs)
CLIENT: (laughing)
THERAPIST: Why was it impressive that I didn't laugh? Or blink?
CLIENT: Well just you've got self-control.
THERAPIST: Oh.
CLIENT: I don't know. But everybody reacts to that shirt. [00:31:00]
THERAPIST: (laughs) Uh-huh.
CLIENT: Anyway. And I do to some extent — at least some of what happens here in my mind is a game, which you may or may not be participating in consciously. But which really entertains me.
THERAPIST: (inaudible at 00:31:26) (laughs)
CLIENT: I don't know. But my relationship with Franco is kind of the same way. And to some extent James also though we're close enough that it's just a game. I don't know. I wanted to see what you'd do. [00:31:53]
THERAPIST: Mm-hmm. Sure. Sure. (pause at [00:31:59] to 00:32:15)
CLIENT: Yeah James and Franco play this game constantly. It's kind of adorable. And when we were in college James had this very, very over the top shock value sense of humor. And just really enjoyed — and Franco has always been — I think he's much less so now but when we were in college certainly I think he was really uncomfortable with sex. And really — he chose very strange friends if that was the case. (laughs) [00:33:01]
THERAPIST: (inaudible) How so?
CLIENT: All in that — I was very comfortable with talking about sex. And making sexual jokes and so on and so forth. And James really enjoyed making increasingly more inappropriate, over the top jokes.
THERAPIST: That's the over the top. (inaudible at 00:33:27) I see.
CLIENT: To just kind of see when he could shock Franco. And also with me but it was different. The things that actually set us off were different.
THERAPIST: Mm-hmm.
CLIENT: And so James and Franco still play that. It's — I don't know. Very strange bonding ritual. (laughs) [00:34:01]
THERAPIST: So James will try to shock Franco? And Franco will sort of try not to be shocked? Or (inaudible at 00:34:11) a little bit?
CLIENT: Something like that. Yeah. Yeah. And he (inaudible at 00:34:13) with it. And the thing is all of us are actually fairly staid people. (laughs) I briefly — I've had sex with two men in my life. I tried the hooking up, sleeping around thing in college. And I hooked up with one guy. And sort of started dating and then basically it didn't work. I was just like I don't actually like this at all. [00:34:59]
THERAPIST: Right.
CLIENT: But yeah.
THERAPIST: So you're like I can try this, give this a go, branch out a little bit. Yeah well that's really not going to happen.
CLIENT: Yeah. I'd been dating the same boy for three years. And I was — and part of it was I was so — it had gotten to the point where my relationship with him I could only be a very, very small fraction of who I actually was. Because that was the only part that he could handle.
THERAPIST: Yeah.
CLIENT: And so part of that was me being like, "Yeah maybe I do want to sleep around. Maybe that is why we're breaking up."
THERAPIST: Uh-huh.
CLIENT: Like deal with it. (laughs) And then found out that actually no I really don't. It's funny — I mean my sister has —. She's probably slept with about 20 people at least. And just has a very different sex life than I do. [00:36:17]
But I think we approach relationships very similarly which is — I don't know. I don't know. But —. So in some ways the remnant of our college life is that when we all get together suddenly like the maturity level plummets.
THERAPIST: Plummets. (laughs)
CLIENT: (laughing) Not that it's ever that high. (laughter)
THERAPIST: Uh-huh.
CLIENT: But yeah.
THERAPIST: But it tanks after (inaudible at 00:37:04).
CLIENT: Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. And it's very cute to me that this kind of thing is not important for me and James anymore. It's not important for me and Franco anymore. But it still seems to be important for James and Franco. [00:37:26]
THERAPIST: Uh-huh.
CLIENT: So. Yeah. But then their relationship is kind of a mystery to me.
THERAPIST: Oh really?
CLIENT: Well they share — the qualities of character that they share are things that are really foreign to me. So like they understand each other in ways that I don't understand either one of them.
THERAPIST: I see. Yeah.
CLIENT: Which is both like somewhat threatening to me and really good that they have each other.
THERAPIST: It reminds me of James saying that he was going to call Franco about (inaudible at 00:38:10).
CLIENT: It's exactly that.
THERAPIST: And (inaudible at 00:38:12).
CLIENT: And he's just like, "No we work this way."
THERAPIST: Right.
CLIENT: And I just have to say, "Okay."
THERAPIST: Be like that's not possible. But okay.
CLIENT: (laughing)
THERAPIST: (inaudible at 00:38:19)
CLIENT: Yeah that for them, for both of them, that kind of exchange of information — "Okay this is the situation in my life." "Okay this is the situation in my life." [00:38:32]
THERAPIST: Yeah.
CLIENT: Is completely not unloaded. Like it bears no — it's just exchanging information.
THERAPIST: Right.
CLIENT: I cannot do that.
THERAPIST: Right.
CLIENT: I don't think most people can do that.
THERAPIST: Mm-hmm.
CLIENT: I'm not even sure that they can do that. But they certainly think they can. (laughs) And yeah.
THERAPIST: Uh-huh. (pause at [00:38:58] to 00:39:12) I guess I have the idea — maybe it's wrong — that I do come across and this process comes across in this kind of mysterious way.
CLIENT: Yeah. Really. (laughing)
THERAPIST: Really? Oh okay. (laughs) That's not intentionally so. [00:39:32]
CLIENT: Okay.
THERAPIST: There is - .
CLIENT: I didn't know whether it was intentional or not but I figured if I asked and it was intentional — I'd rather not ask than have you say, "I don't want to tell you."
THERAPIST: Oh. How come?
CLIENT: I think the latter feels like a rejection to me.
THERAPIST: I see.
CLIENT: And also for me part of it is bound up in wanting to respect your personal privacy and being kind of freaked out by the intimacy of this relationship anyway.
THERAPIST: Sure.
CLIENT: And not really sure where the boundaries are and not wanting to hit any of them. (laughs) [00:40:30]
THERAPIST: Sure. Well as uncomfortable as these things are they must be important to talk about. (laughs)
CLIENT: (laughs) Yeah.
THERAPIST: (inaudible at 00:40:49) I think. I should say I'm happy to answer any questions you like about this sort of process and my impressions about how it works or why I might do things in one way versus another.
CLIENT: Okay.
THERAPIST: (pause at [00:41:08] to 00:41:21) Yeah I mean — I suppose as I think about it there is something certainly strange and kind of mysterious about the way free association works. But I don't mean anything mystical. I just mean like weird how stuff comes up when it sort of doesn't have the usual task orientation. [00:41:46]
CLIENT: Yeah. I'm not good with non-task orientation. I'm sure that comes as an utter shock to you.
THERAPIST: Right. [I'm stunned.]
CLIENT: (laughs)
THERAPIST: And as far as the other stuff — I mean personal questions I probably won't answer although I mean they can be important reflections of what's on your mind. So I understand that they can be difficult to bring up knowing I'm not likely to answer to them. But they can also be (inaudible at 00:42:32) important — sort of things you're thinking or where you're coming from or whatever.
CLIENT: It's important to me not to ask them. [00:42:40]
THERAPIST: Hmm.
CLIENT: You know I'm a religious man's kid. And I see your role — your job is to give a whole lot of yourself everyday. And so you have to have places that you don't go. You have to not give everything of yourself everyday. Like that's just not sustainable. I don't know if that makes any sense.
THERAPIST: I mean yes and no. (pause at [00:43:27] to 00:43:42) How are you concerned about impinging on that? Or impinging on me in that way? [00:43:48]
CLIENT: Um well it is important to me to take care of you as you take care of me. And I feel like the best way that I can do that is kind of leave you your bubble. If that makes any sense.
THERAPIST: Um, I think I know what you mean. So it makes sense in that way but —(pause at [00:44:25] to 00:44:46) I think it's an important thing to keep an eye on. If I think about your father where it seems like that association comes from —. [00:45:04]
CLIENT: Yeah. But also just knowing a lot of clergy. Like I just know a lot of people whose job is religious.
THERAPIST: Uh-huh.
CLIENT: Yeah. And there is not the same expectation of boundaries. And that I see it hurt a lot of people. Certainly it's hurt my family.
THERAPIST: Oh.
CLIENT: It puts intense pressure on any marriage. Like if you marry a priest you are accepting a job.
THERAPIST: Uh-huh.
CLIENT: And there is no sense in the congregation that a priest's personal life is separate from her role. And that leads to a huge amount of burn out. So. Yeah. [00:46:01]
THERAPIST: I guess my concern is that, where as with the priest, the issues at the edge of that boundary or the tension around it isn't necessarily central to the demands of that role. You know what I mean? Like (pause at [00:46:26] to 00:46:37) you know if the clergy visits such and so many congregants in the hospital but has to draw the line at the next one so that they can go home and spend time with the family or whatever.
I mean I don't know exactly what sort of avenue you had in mind (inaudible at 00:46:50). Where I'm really headed here and what I do know more about is that a lot of important questions and issues will probably come up between us as they tend to around where that boundary is. [00:47:11]
CLIENT: Mm-hmm.
THERAPIST: Your ambivalence about pushing on it. Stuff like that. Does that make any sense?
CLIENT: That makes sense.
THERAPIST: Yeah. And I guess I'm saying from what I know — which is not much—about the role of clergy, that boundary can be there but it's not necessarily a central aspect of the interaction between clergy and congregants.
CLIENT: Mm-hmm.
THERAPIST: And your therapist or an analyst that's a very different story.
CLIENT: The boundary is a topic.
THERAPIST: Yeah. Inevitably.
CLIENT: Okay. That makes a little more sense. And I hadn't thought of it in those terms. [00:48:03]
THERAPIST: Yes. Yeah.
CLIENT: Yeah. Okay.
THERAPIST: Yeah. Questions of like what is and isn't okay to talk about, what you want to know about me —.
CLIENT: Well it's also part of the game not to ask and to try and figure things out. (laughter)
THERAPIST: Yeah.
CLIENT: So if I talk about it then it ruins — it's like cheating. (laughing)
THERAPIST: (laughs) (inaudible at 00:48:31) I see. Okay. Well we should stop for now but we'll talk more on Wednesday. All right. Thanks. You too. [00:48:43] [End of audio]
END TRANSCRIPT
