TRANSCRIPT OF AUDIO FILE:
______________________________________________________________________________
BEGIN TRANSCRIPT:
THERAPIST: Can I see...
CLIENT: Sure.
THERAPIST: Okay. Let's make those...
CLIENT: To you maybe. 
THERAPIST: This has to do with the (inaudible at 00:00:33). I think starting...
CLIENT: Subscriber claim form; what do I do with that?
THERAPIST: Ignore it. (Pause) Yeah, ignore it. (Pause)
CLIENT: Do you want me to sign this? [0:01:10]
THERAPIST: Are they going to give that to you? Yeah, I guess so. You may get—what day is this? No it looks like this it. I'll probably get those from now on. Blue Cross put me back in their network as of July 5th. And I'm planning to get out at the end of December but until then I assume I'll get those instead of you. 
CLIENT: And then what happens at the end of the December?
THERAPIST: You'll start getting them again. 
CLIENT: And then what do I do about the remaining balance? [0:02:02]
THERAPIST: Ignore it at least for the next year or at least for a while. I have to figure out exactly what I'm going to do, but I'm not going to start a balance on anybody right away. 
CLIENT: Do you have (inaudible at 00:02:22)? 
THERAPIST: Yeah, I think so. 
CLIENT: Who knows by then all my problems may be solved. 
THERAPIST: Are you through signing over there? 
CLIENT: That's better. According to my friend this will all be over within three years so I've got two years left before I'll be stay at home. I think she's fucking crazy. She's trying to be supportive. She went through a divorce where her husband married their nanny, and she was let go. Although she gets these gigs on Fox News at like death penalty experts. I assume they pay for her trips to New York because she's really not working other than a teaching gig. But I'm having a really rough month because all my financial woes are kind of coming to roost. [0:03:45]
THERAPIST: Oh?
CLIENT: My landlord Saturday morning, the wife who can be pretty bitchy—she's a nice person but she has this mean streak in her. She's like you, Curtis, and I—Curtis being her husband—need to have a meeting about the rent. And I'm a bunch of months behind. They're going to get a check by tomorrow and I'm still at least three or four months behind. And my tenants still owe me for July and I'm going to see if they'll just let me take the security deposit for August. [0:04:25]
THERAPIST: For your tenants? 
CLIENT: Yes. And I just hope business picks up that I could start paying some rent. I've just got to start paying them bit by bit. I mean if I hadn't bought my bicycle, my car never blew up, and the IRS never took my money if got four closings right now. The problem is they're not going to happen until August and everything's coming down at the end of July especially with my (inaudible at 00:04:56). Jess's taken her money out. She's just fucking driving me crazy. I can't believe she's doing all this. It's like (pause) if I fucked up and drew extra money so I'm not even going to argue with you. I'm going to have to end up paying her the extra money I took out from one of the clients accounts. I double billed them for the filing fee and for credit card processing fee. So because she never technically saw any benefit of it, I'm on the hook for it. So it's just another $300.00 I don't have that I've got to give to her. I don't know. [0:05:43]
It's just kind of coming at me from all angles. I've got this eviction going on that the cops may want $1,000.00 up front. And I don't have the client's $1,000.00. I kind of do but I just—I don't know where all the money's gone. I thought I was putting back in. I was putting money back in and... So I don't know what's going on. I need fucking... Guy I'm doing titles for to send me the $1,000.00. That would make everything... I'm going on a fucking tournament this weekend that's going to cost me $200.00; just missing two days, missing Friday and Monday I'm going to be on the road. So it's not like I have work to do but knowing my luck they're going to want to do a closing or something. So I don't know. [0:06:44]
I had been drinking quite a bit, and then Saturday night after my landlord I was really upset, and I was just snapping at everything. I dropped Ian off, and went and bought some beer and some Jameson, got shit faced, and really though I drank Sunday I had a beer and a shot I didn't get drunk, and I didn't feel like drinking last night. I just don't feel like drinking anymore which is good I guess. Still I'm just pretty anxious. I can't get fucking psychiatrist to call in my prescription assuming she's back in town. I don't know what to do about her. [0:07:47]
THERAPIST: How many numbers do you have for her? 
CLIENT: Two. 
THERAPIST: But she never turned it in then?
CLIENT: No.
THERAPIST: Is her voice-mail indicating she's out of town?
CLIENT: No. I left her messages from last week. I'm going to call her again this morning. But I see her on Wednesday, but I'm pissed at her now. 
THERAPIST: Do you know if you see her before—Oh actually we're meeting next Wednesday. Let me know if something happens at that meeting and you don't see her (pause) because maybe I can figure some way to help you get the prescription. [0:08:34]
CLIENT: So we're not meeting next Tuesday but we're meeting on Wednesday right?
THERAPIST: Right. We're not meeting this Friday because you're... The next time we're meeting after today is hopefully tomorrow. 
CLIENT: I have this eviction going and I don't know... I've never gotten this far where I've actually kicked the person out. I'm having lunch today. Every time I schedule one of these lunches at the time I schedule it nothing seems to be going on and then all the sudden it's in the middle of fucking everything. I'm just supposed to have lunch with someone today, and I've got to do some go to sale, and do some title work, and it's like right in the middle of the fucking day. I've got a finance committee meeting tonight for the board, and I want to ride my bike, but I'm not going to be able to get back into the city in time to ride my bike to the board meeting. I may just have to go straight to the board meeting which kind of sucks because I've been fucking eating horribly. I need to do some exercise. There's no Handball tonight anyways. I've got a Handball game on Thursday and then the tournament Saturday and Sunday. I've got to get in good shape for the tournament. It's going to be hot and it's just going to suck. It's on the beach. [0:10:07]
But I'm getting kind of nervous about what to do with my account because I've already fucked it up once. If I fuck it up again I'm in big trouble. I think I may end up just... I've got people's taxes to pay for the first and I think I may screw one of them up and forget to send it in and then pay the penalty or whatever. So I'm sorry it got lost in the shuffle. I'll pay the penalties with interest just till things... You know these closings they just take forever now. If we don't start closing at the beginning of August, but still it's like I'm so fucking far behind the eight ball right now. [0:11:21]
(Pause) It's like what if I didn't have all the costs of setting up the new firm if I could just... At some point the bleedings got to stop you know. It's always fucking something. I can't go a month without there being some fucking crazy blowup. You know hundreds of dollars just flying out the window. My rent should be going down $50.00. I haven't been paying for the website. I don't know if they're going to shut me off there. I just can't make it. I can't (inaudible at 00:12:24). I just can't see myself making it paying rent. I'm so far in the fucking hole. And it's going to take a miracle of business. I've got to find some new source of business, but I don't even know where to begin with that. [0:12:45]
The realtor in E&G; seems to be so fucking busy but she's only throwing me one deal. And she uses a different mortgage guy. We're supposed to all go out or whatever and maybe I'll try to see if we can get that to happen. But I don't know. It's like I don't have any business to send people. If you don't give them business then they're not going to give you any business. My luck I'm going to get business at the end of August when I'm out of town. I'm going down to Florida. My mom's going to be in Florida. So she's flying in Friday night so I'll barely see her while I'm down there. I'm flying in on Thursday. [0:13:52]
(Pause) I've got to go buy some stuff like a hat, and some aqua socks, or whatever for the tournament. I don't know what I'm going to do. I need to do laundry but I don't know when I'm going to do it. Tomorrow is just going to be a day of craziness trying to figure out all this shit of what's going on. I know all the courts have my old address. I don't even know how they get my address whether they get it from the bar or not. So everything there's a delayed of a day or two while it gets forwarded so I don't know if they're sending me stuff or not. There's so many fucking things going wrong I'm almost numb to it now. [0:15:12]
(Pause) I spent the whole day yesterday with Ian which it's nice but I fucking needed that day. Jess was in court and then she's asking me if I can cover because she might be dragged into court Thursday morning. I just can't commit to it. I might be dragged into court on Thursday morning. Get your fucking mom to do it. Even if I did have the time it's just my days just get fucking swallowed up with E&amp;G.; I spend all morning with the kid, go to E&G;, and then I've got my doctor's appointment at 2:30, and then I go play Handball, and it's like a whole day of just not being able to do anything. [0:16:26]
I've got to try and get everything done tomorrow. I can't get my fucking ass out of bed, get up and go to the office early and just do stuff. I can't fucking do it. Still don't know when... I guess I'm going to have to do laundry tomorrow night. It sucks. I'm overwhelmed. 
THERAPIST: So what can you do? Are there (pause) areas of things you can cancel or push back to give yourself the time that you need? I mean I think it can be hard at times especially when you're really overwhelmed so much as you are now to think about alternatives. [0:17:38]
CLIENT: The problem is that I'm in this panic mode or whatever. It's like oh my God. I don't have time to do anything but the reality is I don't have that much to do. It's not like I have a lot of work to do. I just panic with all this stuff being scheduled that has nothing to do with closing. (Pause) I can't—I've got to stop panicking over this kind of stuff. I should just be able to... I have a doctors appointment for whatever. (inaudible at 00:18:36) on fucking Wednesday. So I have to come into town for that, and maybe do my laundry after that, and go to Target after that; hope that Target has the things I need. Maybe I can go to Target tonight after the finance committee meeting. Once again I don't have money to be buying this shit. [0:19:06]
(Pause) I don't know what to do about paying the insurance; health insurance, dental insurance. Jess's leaving half her money in, but I want her to fucking spend it. I'm going to be sending out all these bad checks hoping that something happens. Mortgage guy's going on vacation. I think this is the week he's on vacation so it's like nothing's going to happen on his files. I'm screwed. I can't ask Jess for any help. And my dad I can't ask him for help. I mean other than buying me plane tickets he's not giving me any money through the end of the year whatever that means. I'm hoping my mom can help me out. [0:20:33]
(Pause) I have one closing next Tuesday. I'll make $750.00. That's like I don't know where to throw that money at. I'm not paying my rent at the office, and they charge interest. I could put that in the account just to stop that from bleeding. If I did pay my rent though it would be $200.00, $250.00. I've still got to eat. Pay for the tournament trip. I've got to bring money down for the tournament for food and beer. It's why everyone goes. They have a big beer tent. It's too late for me to back out. They're already kind of short people. I just (pause) keep it busy over the weekend. Everything's just giving me anxiety. I just don't know that whether I'm just being anxious or there's really something to worry about. [0:24:02]
THERAPIST: Okay. 
CLIENT: I don't know if I'm just being overly anxious and panicking just because there's stuff I've got to do or whether there's actually something I should be panicking about. I'm just anxious just because...
THERAPIST: Well the financial stuff sounds very stressful. I mean you've got a lot of things to pay for and not enough money to pay for them. I do think you tend to do this thing where (pause) you get kind of paralyzed and feel like it's all being done to you and that there are no choices that you're making or can make about it. And while I think it's true there are no easy choices to make, (pause) I guess I do think you probably have more control over some aspects of this that you can easily acknowledge. I don't mean there's some job you could step into tomorrow and be making all the money you need, and you know that, and you're choosing not to do it. I don't mean anything like that. But things like deciding not to go to the tournament if the money means more than going to the tournament. And maybe... [0:25:39]
CLIENT: I can't back out of it though. I mean they're short people, and I would be letting everyone down. They're counting on me just as a warm body. 
THERAPIST: Yeah. I'm not (pause) saying that's what you should do, but I am saying that is a choice that you have. I don't think you feel like it's a choice. You feel like it's what you have to do and maybe it's the right decision. I'm not saying it's not the right decision. I don't know about that. But I think you tend to sort of back off it's your decision, that aspect of it, and just feel like you're stuck with it. [0:26:36]
(Pause) And like with the money stuff it sounds very scary. There's big consequences to getting nailed on the account again. And I can understand why you're worried about getting thrown out of your apartment if they decide they're going to be, whatever, stricter about when you pay the rent. And you're worried about where the money's going to come after your tenant like after you close on your condo or whatever. [0:28:38]
CLIENT: The lease is up in August and we can't bring in new tenants.
THERAPIST: Right. So yeah I think there are things that is scary stuff, and of course (inaudible at 00:28:56). I think one of the impacts of the fear is it makes it hard to think through what is the least bad course of action. (Pause) And I don't think you—I think you work hard at it, but I think you don't tend to feel like you have much agency in that. [0:29:32]
CLIENT: (Pause) I'm just overwhelmed. I'm so fucking overwhelmed. I'm paralyzed like I don't want to do anything, and that's why I feel overwhelmed with how to do stuff because doing things isn't going to change whether I make the finances work or not. [0:30:37]
THERAPIST: That's true. Yeah. It really sounds that way to me. It's not as though if you sort of do the accounting right you're going to have enough money. 
CLIENT: I send $435.00 off to the IRS today. (Pause) 
THERAPIST: That must feel like all you would be able to do would be to figure out the least bad place to have the money go and plan ahead on that. [0:31:29]
CLIENT: (Pause) I wish I knew when these closings were going to happen. I fucking (inaudible at 00:32:01). I keep doing these fucking titles. I print out the titles and the checks just don't come in. Watch titles so should close but no fucking checks come in for it. I don't know. I haven't been to the office in a day. Maybe they'll come in today. And I sent another e-mail to the attorney on Friday and he never responded. [0:32:30]
(Pause) 
THERAPIST: How much does he owe you? 
CLIENT: In total over $2,000.00. 
THERAPIST: Yeah, that would make a difference. 
CLIENT: A thousand of it is over 60 days. [0:33:18]
THERAPIST: Yeah. It's weird too because if a lot of that's closed he must have the money from it right?
CLIENT: Well that's the thing. I'm not sure a lot of it was... It was much different when we were starting. It's like when I'd do it, it would close, they would send me money, and now it's just like I do it and nothing happens. For every three or four titles I get one check. Another title they want for next Tuesday and I'm just going to do it. I need the money but it's like when am I going to get the fucking money. I've got another attorney that I just did a title for yesterday. There's one that I did for him and it didn't close but they've got someone else so it ultimately will close. And I've got two more for him so I was like I've closings in the waiting, I've got titles in the waiting, August money's going to come in. It's just fucking get there. (Pause) It's fucking getting there. [0:35:05]
(Pause) I should probably cancel the lunch today and title work. (Pause) It's right smack in the middle of the day. [0:37:28] 
(Pause) I don't know why but being able to ride my bike seems to have so much importance to me. [0:38:25]
(Pause) 
THERAPIST: Being able to ride out to the finance meeting at the farm?
CLIENT: Yeah. (Pause) Still have them review the documents. 
THERAPIST: (inaudible at 00:39:05).
CLIENT: I've just got to call and cancel the meeting with Alexandrea. (Pause) It's just she's a financial advisor that was in the group and she's worried about me. She wants to catch up. [0:39:34]
(Pause) 
THERAPIST: Well we should stop for now. [0:43:04]
CLIENT: So it'll be next Wednesday.
THERAPIST: I'll see you next Wednesday. I guess I'm opening up later like tomorrow or Thursday. I'll let you know.
CLIENT: Okay. [0:43:20]
END TRANSCRIPT
