<font size="4"><b>Anxiety Management</b></font>

<b>DESCRIPTION OF THE STRATEGY</b>


Anxiety management training (AMT) is a form of
coping skills training that teaches applied relaxation
as a means of anxiety control. AMT was first designed
for the treatment of generalized anxiety disorder in
adults and has been conceptualized as a treatment for
any problem in which anxiety plays a central role.
Although AMT was initially developed for adults,
researchers have also suggested a modified set of
AMT procedures for children. AMT alone does not
appear to be the current treatment of choice for childhood
anxiety disorders; however, components of
AMT seem to be incorporated into a number of wellaccepted
treatment protocols for childhood anxiety.


In AMT, clients are taught to identify and respond
to both physiological and cognitive signals of anxiety
with a specific coping behavior. More specifically,
clients learn to respond to their anxiety symptoms
through the implementation of a relaxation response.
As sessions progress, clients are instructed in how to
recognize physiological and cognitive cues that signal
the onset of anxiety. This enables the client to prevent
even higher levels of anxiety from developing by
responding to early anxiety cues with the execution of
relaxation behaviors.


There are several subtle distinctions that differentiate
AMT from other behavioral treatments for anxiety,
such as systematic desensitization or flooding techniques.
In AMT, the clients take an active role in their
anxiety reduction by selectively applying a coping
skill (i.e., relaxation training) to reduce anxiety symptoms
evoked during imaginal exposure exercises.
During systematic desensitization, relaxation training
and exposure are also employed, although the usage
of such skills differs from AMT procedures, as a
relaxed state is optimally maintained from the start of
a systematic desensitization session and imaginal
exposure episodes are typically brief and terminated
by the therapist before high levels of fear or anxiety
fully disrupt the client's relaxed state. In addition,
AMT uses only two levels of anxiety (moderate and
high) for exposure tasks, whereas systematic desensitization
utilizes a gradual, stepwise hierarchy of stimuli
intensity that induces a range of anticipated
responding spanning from very low levels of anxiety
to much higher levels of anxiety. Flooding procedures,
unlike AMT, do not include active coping skills training,
such as the learning of relaxation exercises. In
flooding, adaptation to feared stimuli is more of a passive
process that focuses on habituation to such stimuli,
whereby clients are usually exposed to highly
feared stimuli without any previous, incremental
presentation of less fear-evoking stimuli.


AMT treatment protocols usually consist of five
structured sessions. However, more than five sessions
are often implemented, as particular sessions may be
repeated. The sessions typically take place once a
week for approximately 1 hour at a time. The therapist
begins the first session with an overview of the treatment

[p. <i>663</i>]

In addition to an overview of the treatment rationale,
the client also begins relaxation training during
the first session. A relaxation scene to be used during
this session is constructed with the assistance of the
client. The relaxation scene should be an event that the
client has actually experienced, should contain as
many concrete details as possible, and should include
as many sensory cues as possible. The therapist typically
explains that relaxation is a skill that needs to be
practiced outside of session for generalization of such
skills to occur. For this reason, the importance of
homework is emphasized. During the first session,
this homework consists of practicing relaxation skills
on a daily basis and monitoring the level of tension
experienced before and after relaxation sessions.
During homework, the degree of relaxation obtained
may be monitored on a scale of 1-100 (where low
scores indicate a relaxed state, middle numbers indicate
moderate levels of anxiety, and higher numbers
indicate more intense levels of anxiety).


Notably, the original procedures for relaxation
training in AMT were designed for adults, and these
procedures may be difficult for children to follow.
Clinicians using AMT in their work with children
should be mindful regarding the possible selection of
alternative relaxation procedures that have been especially
developed for use with this population. These
alternative relaxation procedures may include imagery
and fantasy strategies that facilitate learning about
how to relax particular muscle groups. For instance,
the child can visualize squeezing an orange as a way
to learn to tense and relax muscles in the arm. When
working with children using AMT, it is recommended
that relaxation training be limited to 15-minute intervals,
using a maximum of three muscle groups per
interval.


The second AMT session begins with identification
of an anxiety-evoking scene of moderate intensity (i.e.,
a rating of 60 on a scale of 1-100). Through use of
imagery, exposure to the anxiety-evoking scene is then
induced in session, with the goal of making the imagined
situation as vivid as possible. Once the anxietyevoking
scene is introduced, the therapist instructs the
client to begin relaxation. After a relaxed state has
been achieved, anxiety-evoking imagery is used in
order to obtain another anxious state. When the client
reports that he or she feels sufficiently anxious, imaginal
exposure is terminated, and the therapist signals for
the client to begin the relaxation procedure again. This
process teaches the client to quickly respond to an anxious
state with induction of a relaxation response.
Therefore, this same procedure of anxiety induction,
followed by implementation of the relaxation procedure,
is practiced a number of times throughout the
second session. As homework, the client is instructed
to practice using relaxation skills in a number of locations.
For example, the client may be instructed to
practice the training while riding on the school bus or
before attending a social gathering.


In the third session, the therapist begins to give
increased responsibility for the initiation of relaxation
to the client. Procedurally, an anxiety-evoking scene
of moderate intensity (i.e., level 60) is presented and
the client is asked to pay particular attention to any
early symptoms indicative of an anxious response.
The scene is then terminated, and the client is instructed
to implement the relaxation process. This cycle is
repeated several times throughout the session in order
to facilitate improved identification of anxiety-related
cues. As homework, the client continues to practice
relaxation independently, with the specific instruction
of implementing the procedure in response to a novel
situation that produces mild anxiety.


In the fourth AMT session, the intensity of the
anxiety-evoking scene utilized in session is increased
through the use of an imaginal scene with a discomfort
level of 90 or above. The cycle of anxiety induction
followed by implementation of relaxation is repeated
several times throughout the session, with the level of
scene intensity varied between scenes that produce
moderate levels of anxiety and those that produce
higher levels of anxiety. In addition, the therapist continues
to give increased responsibility for initiation of
relaxation to the client. Homework includes practicing
detection of early anxiety signals and independently
responding to such cues with relaxation strategies.

[p. <i>664</i>]

In the fifth session, the client has most of the
responsibility for induction of relaxation procedures.
The therapist helps to present a highly anxiety-evoking
scene; however, all other activities are controlled by
the client. Once anxiety is induced, the client responds
to the anxiety elicited by self-initiating the relaxation
procedure. In this session, relaxation is initiated without
termination of the anxiety scene. Once the client
obtains a stable state of relaxation, moderate and high
intensity scenes are presented in alternating orders,
with each scene followed by client initiation of the
relaxation procedure.


<b>RESEARCH BASIS</b>


AMT has been systematically researched over the last
30 years. Originally, AMT was used to treat manifestations
of generalized anxiety disorder in adults; however,
AMT also appears effective for the treatment of
several other problems among adults, including test
anxiety, social anxiety, and anger difficulties. AMT
may decrease symptoms associated with a number of
medical conditions, including hypertension, diabetes,
ulcers, and asthma. AMT was not developed as a treatment
for child anxiety, and limited research has been
forwarded to examine the implementation of AMT as
a specific intervention for child populations. One reason
for this limited amount of research on the effectiveness
of AMT in child and adolescent populations
may be that components and variations of AMT
appear to be embedded in current research-based
treatment protocols for child and adolescent anxiety
disorders. As a result, AMT is not generally used as an
intervention, independent of other treatment components,
with child and adolescent populations.


Support exists for the efficacy of approaches similar
to AMT in the treatment of childhood fears and phobias.
Researchers have suggested that AMT, with the incorporation
of cognitive restructuring and other behavior
management skills, may be effective in the treatment of
children and adolescents with generalized anxiety disorder,
social phobia, and separation anxiety disorder.
AMT is also a component of a manualized treatment for
obsessive-compulsive disorder (OCD). In this empirically
supported treatment procedure, AMT is used in
conjunction with exposure and response prevention
(Ex/RP) techniques. Although AMT is often used concurrently
with Ex/RP, at least one research study has
found that Ex/RP treatment components are more effective
than AMT alone in the treatment of childhood OCD.


<b>RELEVANT TARGET
POPULATIONS AND EXCEPTIONS</b>


As noted, components and variations of AMT are
found within a number of current treatment protocols
for child anxiety, such as a treatment protocol for
OCD. In the course of this treatment for OCD, AMT
is defined by the combination of relaxation training,
breathing exercises, and cognitive restructuring skills
that can be used during implementation of Ex/RP
tasks. Research on the use of AMT within treatment
protocols for OCD has indicated that AMT may be
effective in making exposure more predictable and
controllable by decreasing the level of anxiety related
to exposure activities and by targeting co-occurring
anxiety disorders that may interfere with the treatment
of OCD.


As noted, treatment components similar to those in
AMT also appear within an empirically supported
treatment designed to treat a variety of childhood anxiety
disorders including social phobia, generalized
anxiety disorder, and separation anxiety disorder.
Components of this treatment that seem consistent
with AMT include teaching children to recognize
internal cues associated with anxiety, relaxation training,
and self-monitoring.


<b>COMPLICATIONS</b>


There are a number of potential complications when
conducting AMT or related treatment strategies with
children. For instance, researchers have noted that
clinicians should pay particular attention to the motivation
level and cognitive capability of children and
adolescents when asking them to self-monitor. The
age and developmental level of certain childhood populations
may also limit the utility of AMT and related
cognitive-behavioral strategies. In particular, recognition
of cognitive or physiological cues signaling
anxiety, a necessary feature of AMT and many related
cognitive-behavioral strategies, may require a degree
of insight or cognitive skill on the part of the child that
may not be fully developed among all children. Consequently,
most of the anxiety-focused interventions for
children are targeted at school-aged children (ages
7-12), as younger children may be relatively limited
in their ability to understand themselves, self-monitor,
and regulate their own behavior. A child's cognitive
ability and level of metacognition may also be important
regarding the ability to adequately comprehend

[p. <i>665</i>]

The anxiety-evoking exposure exercises typical
of AMT and other behavioral treatments for anxiety
disorders may be inherently stressful to the child.
Therefore, a child may be reluctant to participate in
exposure activities or may use alternative cognitive
strategies in order to prevent arousal from occurring in
the session, such as distraction. As a result, it is important
to clearly articulate the rationale of this treatment
to the child and to seek the child's collaboration in
treatment procedures. To whatever degree possible, it
is also important to make sure that the child is actually
experiencing sufficient anxiety during imaginal exposure
exercises. At the same time, the clinician must
take careful steps to make sure that exposure is presented
in such a way that the child does not endure
extremely high levels of anxiety in session. If exposure
progresses too quickly or if it leads to the induction
of overly intense anxiety symptoms, the clinician
runs the risk of the child experiencing some trauma
in session. For many of the same reasons, it is also
important to make sure that when imaginal exposure
is conducted within the session, anxiety is fully
reduced before the session is terminated.


<b>CASE ILLUSTRATION</b>


"Jared" was an 11-year-old male who presented to a
community mental health clinic, accompanied by his
parents, due to difficulties with swallowing pills, both at
home and at school, that were prescribed by his psychiatrist
for the treatment of attention-deficit/hyperactivity
disorder (ADHD). Upon consultation, Jared's psychiatrist
indicated no medical etiology for this problem and
reported his belief that the cause of Jared's swallowing
difficulties was anxiety-related in nature. During initial
assessment, Jared and his parents completed several
questionnaire measures assessing a range of internalizing
and externalizing difficulties, in addition to a
detailed history of the problem behavior and a semistructured
interview to assess for diagnostically relevant
symptomatology. Jared's school nurse (who administered
medications to him in that environment) also completed
a questionnaire measure regarding his behavior,
and Jared's parents were instructed to keep a frequency
count of his compliance with swallowing medications
during the week following the initial assessment.


Results of this assessment indicated that while
Jared had no prior history of swallowing difficulties
during infancy or childhood, his tolerance of psychostimulant
medications was poor from the start of its
usage, 2 months ago, resulting in recurrent feelings
of nausea, headache, and sleeplessness, though his
mother and psychiatrist believed that these side effects
seemed to steadily improve throughout the 1st week
of treatment. Nonetheless, during the 2nd week of
treatment, Jared began refusing to take his pills either
at home or at school. Changes in the type and dosing
of psychostimulant medication failed to remediate his
medication compliance problems. Jared reported that
he felt "embarrassed" about taking psychostimulant
medications, especially at school, and further indicated
a particular concern that he would "throw up" in
front of family or peers after swallowing his pill. Jared
failed to meet full diagnostic criteria for any clinical
disorder, other than ADHD. However, he did report
mild to moderate symptoms of social anxiety, oppositional
defiant disorder, and specific phobia (vomiting)
that appeared consistent with his medication compliance
issues.


AMT was administered to Jared over six treatment
sessions. During an initial assessment feedback session
in which the antecedent and consequent conditions
that seemed to be associated with Jared's current
swallowing difficulties were reviewed, commitment
was obtained to participate in a brief course of AMT.
In the first AMT session, the rationale for this treatment
approach was extensively reviewed with Jared
and his family members, a method for identifying
Jared's level of anxiety in session (using Subjective
Units of Discomfort [SUDS] levels) was introduced,
and Jared helped to design his relaxation paradigm.
Jared then assisted in teaching his parents the relaxation
paradigm he created, and the family practiced
relaxation skills together. In Session 2, a moderately
anxiety-evoking situation was identified (swallowing
a psychostimulant pill and feeling nauseous) and
imaginal exposure was utilized to induce anxiety at
a SUDS level of 60. Upon attainment of this SUDS
level, Jared was instructed to begin his relaxation
paradigm. This exposure-relaxation cycle was then
repeated several times in session. At the start of
Session 3, Jared's parents reported a significant
increase in his medication compliance, up from compliance
during 7 of 21 administration attempts during
Week 1 of treatment, to 15 of 21 administration
attempts at the start of Week 3, with increasing compliance
observed throughout the previous week. Jared
also reported that he was feeling "a little" less anxious

[p. <i>666</i>]

Session 4's content was virtually identical to
Session 3's, with a more specific focus on alternately
imagining a slightly expanded scene that involved
Jared taking his medication in school and feeling nauseous
afterward, as this situation continued to present
difficulty to him, and his regular moderately intense
scene. In Session 5, the therapist discussed induction
of Jared's high-intensity anxiety-evoking situation
(taking his psychostimulant medication in school and
vomiting in the classroom) and the possible side
effects of reviewing such highly emotional imagery
with him and his family. Jared strongly indicated that
he was "ready" for the imaginai presentation of this
situation but agreed to allow his mother to remain in
the room during initial exposure to this imagery, in
case of any adverse effects. Jared repeatedly and successfully
induced anxiety at a SUDS level of approximately
80 during this session to his high-intensity
scene (with alternating presentation of his moderately
anxiety-evoking scene), and appropriate use of relaxation
in session. At the start of Session 6, Jared's
parents reported that he appeared to no longer exhibit
problems with medication compliance and had not
refused to take his medication at any point during the
previous week. Jared proudly self-initiated both imaginal
exposure and relaxation to his high-intensity situation
and announced to the therapist that he was ready
to discontinue treatment. A follow-up phone call from
Jared's psychiatrist indicated that he continued to evidence
full compliance with swallowing medications
3 months after AMT was completed.


<i>Jill T. Ehrenreich and Brian J. Fisak Jr.</i>


<i><b>See also:</b> AMT: Anxiety/Anger Management Training
(Vols. I &amp; III), Barlow, David H. (Vols. I &amp; III), Cognitive
Behavior Therapy: Child Clinical Applications (Vol. II),
Foa, Edna B. (Vols. I &amp; III), Stress Inoculation Training
(Vols. I &amp; III)</i>


<b>Suggested Readings</b>


Grace, N., Spirito, A., Finch, A. J., &amp; Ott, E. S. (1993). Coping
skills for anxiety control in children. In A. J. Finch, M. W.
Nelson, &amp; E. S. Ott (Eds.), <i>Cognitive-behavioral procedures
with children and adolescents: A practical guide</i>
(pp. 257-288). Boston: Allyn &amp; Bacon.


Kendall, P. C. (1992). <i>Coping cat workbook</i>. Ardmore, PA:
Workbook.


Kendall, P. C., Chansky, T. E., Friedman, M., Kim, R.,
Kortlander, E., Sessa, F. M., &amp; Siqueland, L. (1991).
Treating anxiety disorders in children and adolescents. In
P. C. Kendall (Ed.), <i>Child and adolescent therapy:
Cognitive-behavioral procedures</i> (pp. 131-164). New York:
Guilford Press.


Koeppen, A. S. (1974). Relaxation training for children.
<i>Elementary School Guidance and Counseling</i>, October,
14-21.


March, J. S., &amp; Mulle, K. (1998). <i>OCD in children and adolescents:
A cognitive-behavioral treatment manual</i>.
New York: Guilford Press.


Suinn, R. M. (1990). <i>Anxiety management training</i>. New York:
Plenum.

