TRANSCRIPT OF AUDIO FILE:
______________________________________________________________________________
BEGIN TRANSCRIPT:


COUNSELOR: 1, 2, 3, 4 1, 2, 3, 4 This is Client Oh My 0729107. 0729107. 1970. The day before Christmas. I'm worrying about cooking turkey. 1, 2, 3, 4 4, 3, 2, 1 


PATIENT: Can I sit down? I have a present in this one.


COUNSELOR: Yeah I have a puppet.


PATIENT: (sighs) Well I'm feeling pretty good. 


COUNSELOR: Wow.


PATIENT: We're going to Indianapolis tomorrow or today.


COUNSELOR: Oh? That's good.


PATIENT: For the holidays to be with some friends. I know it's really going to be good for all of us. 


COUNSELOR: Oh that sounds good. Are you going to drive down?


PATIENT: And they have two kids and you know it's just a real fun and peaceful time. And ... but I feel pretty good. I'm like.


COUNSELOR: Yeah it feels good and like you can get away and relax. 


PATIENT: Right. (sighs) There's one thing ... that's really got me - really got me going. And I think if I could work this out then I'd feel a lot lot better about myself. But I just you know. Sometimes I feel okay and other times I feel kind of bad. It's even probably we've discussed before. It's the idea that ... I just don't you know I don't know how to have ... the meaningful relationship with a women other than my wife and not just get petrified that something is going to happen. And it means that if I sit and talk. If I sit and feel any kind of emotions with this woman I'm going to get scared. [2:31] 


COUNSELOR: It immediately feels like it's going to lead to something else.


PATIENT: Right. Right. And then I think that's the thing that upsets me the most in my being alone. I can have these what I call deep and really kind of meaningful relationships with men. There's no sweat there. But that sort of a relationship with a woman really frightens me. Like you know it's a combination of just what I've done. Just sitting and talking in some sort of depth with a woman is a - it's kind of a little bit aliased. And really.


COUNSELOR: Sounds like even having any kind of feelings. It doesn't mean actually having sex with them. 


PATIENT: Right. And the other thing of course is that I'd like to be able to cut out the little sexual area and put it aside and maybe I'd feel alright. But that's not realistic. I mean you can't go there a complete time with being with someone and not have a multitude of emotions I guess. Now maybe there's a way. You know maybe there's a way to segregate yourself and just to completely, franticly you know say I'm not, I'm not, I'm not but it looks. You know I've tried that. What it comes out doing is that comes out I am hand strung. You know so busy saying I'm not that the relationship just - nothing.


COUNSELOR: It's like really cutting out a whole part of it. 


PATIENT: Right.


COUNSELOR: Pretending it isn't there.


PATIENT: Right. Pretending it isn't there. And I just don't you know I really don't know how to handle that. So ... and yet ... you know I feel reasonably safe with you. Because I basically feel like you are at least equally in control of the situation here. You know I do appreciate that you're - that you do have a gender. I you know that's not putting you down at all but would rather the fact that yeah I just feel very comfortable with you. I feel uncomfortable about talking about this in a way. And I feel uncomfortable about talking - less uncomfortable about talking with it with you then I do with Susan so. We talked about it (inaudible at 5:08) I'm surprised she hasn't called yet.


So basically what - I guess the reason it keeps coming up and up and up is that I just can't seem to get a hold of it anymore. I just can't seem to grasp it. And there's nobody I can talk to about it. [5:26]


COUNSELOR: Because it sounds like the same though. Here it's (inaudible at 5:31) is because it feels like somehow I have some control over it.


PATIENT: You have some control over yourself. And I guess the situation moves with - but I really can't - I really can not talk to anybody about this. To give you a little diagram. I talked to some people. I tried. You know you don't start off by diving right in and talking. You kind of just feel your way around. So I've tried talking to people who I really respect. And it's been very disappointing because many of the men that I talked to can not understand why in fact if I can have this type of relationship with a woman and it could mean going to bed with why in the hell I would not go into bed with her. They can't understand that or they won't say I believe in - I understand what you're saying. I've had the same problem and (inaudible at 6:40) so I guess it.


COUNSELOR: So what they're saying is kind of go ahead and act on it.


PATIENT: Yeah. Yeah. They're saying listen if you can do that - if you can be this great exploiter then you're stupid not to explore it all you can. Maybe.


COUNSELOR: Yeah that isn't what you wanted to do.


PATIENT: That hurts. That really hurts. And so that tends to pervade the other type of feelings. And I just really - I don't even know where to begin to attack it. I sometimes say to myself well it's alright. It's alright to completely feel something for another woman. But it keeps coming back that this is wrong, this is wrong sort of like it's enough. (Inaudible at 7:33) I think it's not the only thing that bothers me. These are pretty I guess deep things. 


The other thing that I think is very similar is the alcohol business. I really don't honestly feel any real compulsion to drink a lot. But I - there is an ill and a fear there too. It's not purely fear that keeps me from drinking but there is an element I like. Just like there's an element of I'm completely just letting down and letting go for fear of what will happen if I really let go. And I don't know.


COUNSELOR: It feels like something like everything will pour out and break loose.


PATIENT: Right. Right. 


COUNSELOR: And come out and you have to keep you on this big tight rein. 


PATIENT: Right. And I guess I just sometimes it's just conscience; other times it's not. Other times it becomes conscience after the fact. I think oh how - what have I done? Have I gone too far? Don't know. Shouldn't I have pulled back here ...and kept it under a very superficial level. And yet I guess deep down inside I'm really yearning to be able to break that superficiality that I've always tried to hold because of it. Because of these fears. And I don't know how. And I never would. I don't know whether it's right. Understand whether you have to throttle yourself. 


COUNSELOR: It's almost like what would happen if you didn't.


PATIENT: Yeah.


COUNSELOR: Because you kind of imagine like [doing so] (ph). One thing I gather you're saying is well if you like what I do you simply go to bed. Well then I felt really strong feelings for any woman then I just - that's (inaudible at 9:53) [9:57]


PATIENT: In a way yeah I guess as I began to loosen the reins a little bit that I realized that that's really not completely where it is. It might be (inaudible at 10:13) but I'm not sure I really want to do that. I guess it's to put it anyway it's a freedom just to really express myself without having somebody looking over my shoulder or slapping my hand only knowing me I slap my own hand because I feel like they're going to slap my hands. There are people who taught me the things like these bother me. Oh God it really bothers me. I don't want - I think if I were to grade relationships that the most important survey (ph) would have to be that I have a past. And it's been that way so much so that I have had very few relationships with other people.


COUNSELOR: And a lot (inaudible at 11:01)


PATIENT: Yeah. And so when she started getting out and getting away she experienced when I first came in it really hurt. And I realized - I guess I've realized that it's not that I'm doing it to spite her. But I'm realizing maybe some of the fowlousy (ph) (sp?) in having only one person in the whole wide world - you know there's a lot of people in this world - having only one person. I guess that's what allowed me to you know I don't know how you would grade my reactions so far but I guess that sort of as allowed me to be free. And I have been. 


And yet I guess I - looking back over it I see that there are times when I do pull back. Like I told you a couple of weeks ago that I hope you didn't think that I really thought low of the past because of some of the things I told you. You see that's pulling back. I'm sure you realize that. That's putting up hill. That's codes of paint. Like well okay he's okay. 


COUNSELOR: Yeah. Don't get a bad impression.


PATIENT: Right. Just don't get a bad impression I guess. And yet I just really can't get a hold of it. I'm really not comfortable with it. I'm not comfortable with the idea that yes I can have experiences with other women. And I'm not comfortable with the idea that I have to restrict myself with affection. Both of these things send me right up the wall. [12:47]


And when you suggest what would happen if I really let go. I'd like to try that so. But I feel that third sense of responsibility to the past and to my prestige. You know sort of to the person. Yeah because they can be hurt too ... and you really can't. That's hard to live with. 


COUNSELOR: You don't want to do that either I don't think.


PATIENT: No. No. That's why I figure. Intellectually I say it's not worth all of that. It's a bad risk. I mean I'm (inaudible at 13:35).


COUNSELOR: It sounds like you're feeling in the after all at once.


PATIENT: I'm just putting in.


COUNSELOR: Because that's something - I get the feeling that you're saying if I have any of the feelings of even going on towards someone that feeling of close to a particular woman that the feeling and then the act of doing something about it is either going to bed with her or in some way developing an even closer relationship would immediately follow. That (inaudible at 14:07)


PATIENT: Yeah. I guess what I'm trying to say is that if I let go that I think more relationships would develop. Yeah there's a logistical problems with going to bed with someone at least for me. I just can't find the appropriate time and I would have to feel very comfortable I think. I don't think I could do it if I felt like it was going to blow up in my face. That would make me feel very uncomfortable. 


But it's the idea of being able to openly admit that I have these feelings. And by that admission having that admission helps some. You know help obviate the necessity for any action on.


COUNSELOR: Yeah.


PATIENT: But then I think well if you tell a girl that aren't you really threatening her? Or aren't you really implying that you're asking her a question? 


COUNSELOR: There's assumption with anything though and when you want to do something that sort of thing. [15:18]


PATIENT: Yeah. Yeah. Are frightened. Help. What is happening here? It really just (inaudible at 15:28) I could easily just take a knife and pop a little bit of a chunk right out of my mind. And go back to being exactly like I have been [which is very rigid] (ph). But then from past experience I realize that virginity costs too. I mean I guess one of the closest I've ever come to going to bed was when I was so damn rigid. And it just like it's gotten tired. I was tired one night and so there was an appropriate time and appropriate place. And it was very hard. So I feel I came very close to it.


COUNSELOR: Feeling like at some point can't hold on that tight.


PATIENT: Yeah. Yeah.


COUNSELOR: Then it feels more than.


PATIENT: Right. So I'm really. I would love to take caution about this.


COUNSELOR: Like you're in your state now feeling kind of I don't want to hurt the people I love - I don't want to have to hold on like that.


PATIENT: Right. 


COUNSELOR: I want to feel free to.


PATIENT: Right. 


COUNSELOR: But I'm scared.


PATIENT: Yeah I am really, really scared. I guess though you can't under estimate the judgment idea. I need like be able to do that. Be able to walk and feel like that. If people had to judge me then that's their problem and not mine. But it definitely (inaudible at 17:00) because people thought I was a stereotype. So it's kind of the image I guess I have let for (inaudible at 17:17) that I'm here proving and that sort of thing. I don't want to think of myself like that. And I guess if I think other people are thinking of me like that I think of myself like that. (Inaudible at 17:37)


COUNSELOR: Kind of you thinking that and then feeling well they must be thinking that too. [17:43]


PATIENT: Right. I guess. I think it's the single hardest thing for me to do. I mean ... I think if I could really deal with it ... that my productivity in other areas would be really a lot better. 


COUNSELOR: Yeah you have an awful lot of energy devoting to kind of holding down.


PATIENT: Right. I just get - I really get to think sometimes that you're really a screw ball. You're really a nut. Why is this so important? You're certainly doing more important things other than that. Why is this so damn important? And I can't answer that. So what do I do?


COUNSELOR: Do you think it would help if I could say well try this?


PATIENT: Right.


COUNSELOR: Or here's this. I don't know if it helps but one thing I keep hearing is something that's kind of broader than just relating to women but I'm just saying I'm really afraid of what I'll do when I act. And it feels - some way to - the whole opening your mouth thing like that people are always going to go keep your mouth shut. And that has some of the same quality. Like if I open my mouth I'll stick my foot in it. I'll get in trouble. I'll do something I shouldn't. I'll hurt somebody. But all of these feelings come out kind of. [19:40]


PATIENT: That's right. All I think.


COUNSELOR: It matters. The (inaudible at 19:45)


PATIENT: I think that's right. People misunderstand.


COUNSELOR: When they judge me (inaudible 19:54)


PATIENT: They don't hurt me. 


COUNSELOR: Yeah.


PATIENT: So I can build a wall. I can really build a wall. That's what I did as a child. So I won't get hurt I would build a big, big wall. I guess something that scared me the most was when my sister died. Because she was one of the only people that I didn't have too many walls built up against. She knew where she could really hurt me. And she you know she took a - she did it. She could - I remember she when she was dying and she was you know getting about 75 or 100 milligrams of morphine every four hours. And I had been home for the holidays. 


I had been dating this little high school girl. Then I met Susan. And I told her that (laughs) I had changed girls and she said ... why did you do that she said. I wanted to die thinking that you finally had a girl. But you really can't love anybody, can you? And that scares me a lot because I - there are times when I really don't think I can love anyone. That's the other side of the cord (ph) you know that you don't have any problems. 


I loved my father but I just flat out left him (inaudible at 21:35). And I called it about other things but I don't call it. And I can just cross people off and just not worry. You know just (snap) all of a sudden be gone (ph).


COUNSELOR: It almost sounds like to me it felt like she said I couldn't and I feel like it's impossible that I can love her.


PATIENT: Right.


COUNSELOR: Cross her off. [22:01]


PATIENT: Right. Because I feel like the people I really loved hurt me an awful lot - especially not the loving part. When enough people tell me that I didn't - I couldn't love anybody. And so I just felt that I couldn't love anyone. And that time in this whole thing too. I guess I really want to be open and want to love more than friends but in a number of different ways. I - it's like in Atlantic City I really want - I really felt a warmth for those people that I was talking to. That's crazy. That's absolutely crazy. You don't go to a dinner meeting to present a paper and love the people you're presenting it. That's just not right.


COUNSELOR: That feels like wow (inaudible at 23:02)


PATIENT: Wow. God it just feels like it - it feels so funny because if you ended your paper by saying I want to thank you and I love you all. (laughs)


COUNSELOR: (laughs) (inaudible at 23:14)


PATIENT: Yeah it would go right on you know what is this guy? (laughs) Some sort of creep. And I guess what I'm saying what I hear myself saying is that people think is pretty important in a way. And I think that's right. What they think is pretty important. 


COUNSELOR: And it also you know what they think is very important and what they can do to you. Like there's a real fear of what they can do to you if you leave a little crack in the wall sort of like you open it up and stick your head out (inaudible at 23:48)


PATIENT: Yeah.


COUNSELOR: And that's [not very good] (ph).


PATIENT: But like I said it ...(sighs) I think (inaudible at 24:03) like I said built a wall toward and I (inaudible at 24:07) Am I saying if you put me down I'm going to build a wall so I can really - then it will be rotten therapy because. Do you know what I'm saying? I really you know I just really want to be able to love and not to be hurt. But intellectually that's a bunch of bull. You know?


COUNSELOR: Right.


PATIENT: But it's not ... you can't always have the good side of things. You're going to get hurt if you love people. If you open yourself up you're going to get hurt sometimes period. But why I never handle the hurt. I really feel like it's a point - I'm at a point in my life where these are decisions that which may sound completely vague and way out. But I can feel that this a - that if I close the door now it may be a damn long time before I open it up again. [25:15] 


COUNSELOR: Yeah. It's supposed to be very, very important.


PATIENT: Yeah. I can live - I guess I can live you know or I'll live. I know that. 


COUNSELOR: Yeah.


PATIENT: But I can't guarantee that I'll be happy or that I'll be worth a damn to anybody. But I can live. And dang well I guess I kind of want to close all of the doors. I have such - some really good experiences with people which I can (inaudible at 25:48) and then I'm scared of shutting the doors because I get hurt too much. 


Then one of the other things that scares me too. (clears throat) It really sounds corny, doesn't it? It really sounds corny. 


COUNSELOR: It doesn't sound corny to me. That sounds like feeling though I'm [not a perfect one] (ph).


PATIENT: Yeah. If somebody tells people they don't understand that ... that doesn't get.


COUNSELOR: It doesn't make sense.


PATIENT: No. And yet I wonder. I've always been able to say they don't understand. Or they understand and they won't admit. Because I haven't always been that they don't understand. I've often said that they understand but they won't admit that this is where they have problems.


COUNSELOR: Right.


PATIENT: But God it seems like if they would just you know if they would just (inaudible at 27:05) 


(Phone ringing)


PATIENT: But like you know I can understand more and more that they. 


COUNSELOR: All that I can say just to let them know that they've hurt you.


PATIENT: Right.


COUNSELOR: (inaudible at 27:28)


PATIENT: Yeah. 


COUNSELOR: But it feels like someone did. They don't see it this way then fine. All they want from it is and this isn't right.


PATIENT: Right.


COUNSELOR: But in either case that leaves you feeling terribly alone. [27:45]


PATIENT: Right. Terribly alone. I guess as I began editing it more the one that I have opened up most to is Susan. It puts a hell of a lot of strain on her. You know I know her responses and so forth. And I can't let her respond. Every time I open up there's an implied response. It's like there's an implied response for you. And I'd like to get away from that. I'd like for you to be able to say oh bullshit and be able to take that and not be put down by it. But that's where it really hurts. When you don't respond to me in exactly the right way that's a - for a person like Susan - that's a joke (ph). You know a terrible title to you know. And she teeters one way or teeters the other way and she's missing it. And I pout. Then I pout ... sometimes. Sometimes I say you missed me and she says well I got to react. And I say well God damn can't you react so that I can - so that I feel good. (laughs) Oh! And I think well it's just not worth it. It's just not worth it. I guess [keep these things in a way inside because and not let them out] (ph).


COUNSELOR: Almost like saying almost feeling like well nobody really can understand so like I'll keep it inside.


PATIENT: Yeah. 


COUNSELOR: And not put it out. It's almost has a two edged thing - one being this I want to put it out and I want to get the right response. I want to get understanding and everything that goes with it but I'm really feel like pushing it back. And then on the other hand okay I want to feel particularly (ph) what other people feel. That if I just want to just be free to put myself out and if they don't like it that's (inaudible at 29:46)


PATIENT: Yeah because when I get - when I really get down to the quality of it all if I say I should be able to put myself then other people should be able to put their selves out. And I know good and well that many times those two putting outs are not going to agree with each other. 


COUNSELOR: And at this stage it feels like if they don't agree then something's destroyed in the relationship. [30:14]


PATIENT: Yeah. It needs a lot of affirmation. So ... and I think that's basically me. That's why I hang up because I need a lot of affirmation ... a lot of encouragement. And I am feeling very much like a baby because I need lots of encouragement. And you see I guess what I'm doing is I'm really being with all this too. Like I said the term baby you know I'm a baby. That's bull. Who's to say that I'm really a baby? I guess a lot of people need affirmation. 


And then I can feel a little bit different. The idea was to be self sustained - self independent. And you can do that but it's not as exactly you know. See I don't need any therapy. (Inaudible at 31:24) the classic example. I don't have any problems. (laughs) But you know. Somehow I guess some of the fears I have of therapy is would I be able to take the feelings I have here outside. Would I be able to really express things to other people and feel okay about expressing it? 


There's an interesting thing that I have felt here. I haven't felt too embarrassed. I felt some embarrassed but not too embarrassed to not come back. And I told you a hell of a lot. You know I told you things I've never told anybody. And usually I get very embarrassed when I tell something that's like a you know when I have a ... long talk with a person. But I get some of it you know long talk long listening. I underscore that because I just in our relationship I talk a lot - not ours. So then you won't say you'll tell - you won't tell me what to do (laughs) so I might keep talking. (clears throat) 


I get embarrassed. It goes with that personally a different level. That's enough another problem. How can you really have a good relationship with someone? Can you go back up to a silly - a silliness? And you need that. And you can't be examines your gut all of the time. It just wouldn't - it wouldn't make it. That's too intense. How do you be silly but yet let them know that you're - that you still feel the same? That the silliness is not a reaction. That the silliness is a real thing. It's not a reaction to not wanting to ever talk seriously with them. [33:18]


COUNSELOR: But it feels like that's how they interpret it?


PATIENT: That's right. That's how they interpret it. Where we really got into it and this is his reaction.


COUNSELOR: Like having gloves?


PATIENT: Like having gloves. 


COUNSELOR: Does it feel like running to you? That that's what you're doing?


PATIENT: No. It doesn't feel like running. I mean but it doesn't - the intensity of the relationship feels like in a way that you can't have any kind of lightness. Gives you that feeling that you know the relationship is either very superficial, very light and very gay or it's very tense. And I'd like to do able to do both and yet.


COUNSELOR: It's all or nothing.


PATIENT: Right. And let the person know that ... deep down inside it's really there for them. That it just at this time I just feel like being silly. To see that having the deep relationship with a person implies that everything you do has to be deep with that person. For me at least. Very much all or none. I mean I am walking example of the first law of nature you know all or none. And then I say any of these things I just I don't know. But when I get to examine it I feel confident. Yeah.


COUNSELOR: About that part? You mean that.


PATIENT: I kind of. Yeah I know all of the problems but I don't know any answers. And that makes me feel (inaudible at 35:11)


COUNSELOR: Like that's an outlining (ph) somewhere that's [going to come out] (ph).


PATIENT: Yeah. 


COUNSELOR: But then what?


PATIENT: But then what do I do. I just can't analyze on them. One, two, three steps. I can just feel how I'd like to be free to just engulf almost ... be myself but I just can't take the repercussions from being lonesome. It just really hurts me. I can't take the pretend. I can't take people misunderstanding. And I understand that that's you know misunderstanding may be just be something their reaction was. But I just can't take that really.


COUNSELOR: That immediately does something awful to you.


PATIENT: That immediately starts well you really don't care. If you really cared you'd hear me. And then I go way back inside. And I say who in the hell do you think you are that people should be hearing you? That's a bit much. 


COUNSELOR: Almost.


PATIENT: You know?


COUNSELOR: So then it starts [to put the cat's game] (ph) on yourself.


PATIENT: Yeah. Yeah that's how. It's the only way I live without - I guess then what I'm doing is not outlining the problems but outlining the way I handle them. Which is has gotten me 35 years and you know I walk on the street and I don't walk on my hands or you know go loo-looing down the street so that I at least - by society's standards - I'm able to manage. But that can be saying much for me. Because that doesn't really say what I really am. I guess in the eyes of many other people one would have to consider my achievements as success. But then point of view you know whoopee. 


COUNSELOR: Right. So you feel like you're like you're missing a lot.


PATIENT: I feel like I miss a hell of a lot. And I guess I feel like I'm - not only am I missing a lot but a lot of other people are missing a lot. I think.


COUNSELOR: Like they don't really know you?


PATIENT: Yeah. I feel very strongly that they didn't know me or them self. They don't know other people. You know?


COUNSELOR: Because they're doing the same thing?


PATIENT: They're doing the same thing. They're all locked up. They'll all in their little ticky tacky box. And I really care about that. I really care.


COUNSELOR: About what other people do?


PATIENT: It really means something to me. It means something how I handle a patient. This patient came in the other day you know in very bad shape and really sick all the time. (Inaudible at 38:17) were very closed. It really concerned me. Not that I knew the woman but I just needed to who was handled her poorly for no good reason at all. She was just not treated right.


COUNSELOR: Yeah. So you feel that someone was not treating her as a human being.


PATIENT: Yeah. 


COUNSELOR: (inaudible at 38:36)


PATIENT: Yeah. And to say that enough though she has no money and she' black and she's fat and she's ugly. But somebody's got to say that this woman's worthwhile. And therefore she - we try and give her the best possible care just as if she was a Dr. Fleischman's wife who is attractive and slim and pleasant looking and all this jazz. That they're treated with some kind of care. And I don't know. I guess sometimes I take things too seriously.


You see I've gotten a reputation around the clinic see of being the one person who can find out what has happened to a person. Can define their disease in relationship to what they tell me. That has happened many times. That I've known pregnancies or anybody else knows about pregnancies. I've known about drug addictions for anyone else has known about drug addictions and all this stuff of thing ... just simply by listening to the people. And so they kid me about this a lot. So they get a patient that they can't figure out what the patient is saying. So they say well send them over to (inaudible at 40:16) and let him sit down with them for a while. 


Well that's kidding. That makes me feel good in a way but it also makes me feel kind of like well what in the hell do you think you're saying. [40:28]


COUNSELOR: You mean like they're disparaging you?


PATIENT: Yeah. Like they're putting down this idea of me being able to care for somebody and they seem angry. So but I just I do care about what the other people get. And so I guess this is what makes my life fun. And it also provides me with a lot of frustration. [And okay they'll handle it] (ph). 


Oh course I don't know if I really want to have a handle. I'd like to feel I kind of (inaudible at 41:11) myself. I'd like to go do something and (inaudible at 41:19) to be able to say that I saw it. But that scares me because if I've seen it and I feel like I'll have no capacity to say well that wasn't alright. You know that wasn't worth a damn. And.


COUNSELOR: That really - well that's that same thing again.


PATIENT: Right. 


COUNSELOR: But if I say it's alright then everything's alright.


PATIENT: Right.


COUNSELOR: So I have to say everything's not alright so I won't get caught.


PATIENT: Right. Crazy isn't it? (Inaudible at 41:52) I don't know.


COUNSELOR: It feels like it must be a safe way to develop to kind of keep something safe.


PATIENT: (Shhhhhhhh) you were. It's a way I've - I work at research. When I really think I've got it. And I throw everything out. And I say well let's see. That's try to dig wholes in it. It's like I try to be my wisest and to really examine it and analyze it. (sighs) Just to make sure that I'm not you know not way off course. 


COUNSELOR: The fact that the whole thing's still not - has nothing beneath but hard to find. (laughs)


PATIENT: Right.


COUNSELOR: Yeah.


PATIENT: Because you know as I look at my father the one thing that I think he screwed up on was that he always thought what he did was right. You know?


COUNSELOR: And you don't want to get caught in that.


PATIENT: I don't want to get caught in the idea that I am always right and the rest of the world is always wrong. Because somewhere the rest of the world had an effect on me and it hasn't all been bad. Some of it's been really good. I didn't want to know it all on my own. I didn't learn to care on my own. But ... so ... and I don't want - I don't know how to decide when what I've done is inappropriate. You know how to handle that in an appropriately. And when what I've done is okay. Crazy floor. [43:45]


COUNSELOR: It's some kind of feeling for where it is.


PATIENT: Right.


COUNSELOR: Whether it's okay or not.


PATIENT: Right.


COUNSELOR: And I guess that's something that stems to other people. 


PATIENT: Right. 


COUNSELOR: Right.


PATIENT: Who cares about myself?


COUNSELOR: You. You know I just realized that you're terribly afraid you'll fool yourself. 


PATIENT: Right. (Inaudible at 44:03) You know I lie a lot. I lie an awful lot. I exaggerate even more than I lie. But honesty's very cold. (Inaudible at 44:13) I can tell you something that is just a little bit of an exaggeration I feel bad about it. I felt - that's why I felt bad with you. Is if and I cut back and I said well I didn't want you to think that Susan's all bad because I guess I felt like I exaggerated.


COUNSELOR: Like somehow in order to get the point across.


PATIENT: Yeah. You know. 


COUNSELOR: You've over done it.


PATIENT: A rose is red but if you say that it's scarlet it's much more appealing. I don't know. I just feel like - I feel right now like these things are really worth you know really worth talking over. And but I project ahead. And the only way I can do that is by looking at other people who are ahead of me. I kind of don't want to go through the same thing that they went through. In the 40's what happened to them. Something exciting you think. And you look at your life and you wonder what it's all been about ... whether it's been worthwhile. I don't guess I'd mind that as long as I came out with a very affirmation answer. Yes it's all been worthwhile. I've been hurt a lot but I haven't built up a whole bunch of things. But that scares me. I don't want to - I really guess I don't want to [grow up and look at things] (ph). 


COUNSELOR: I don't want to have to look back that I could have done this differently and I could have not done but.


PATIENT: Yeah. It makes me paranoid.


COUNSELOR: (inaudible at 45:58)


PATIENT: Yeah. Oh yeah. It makes me very not you know be able to express these things. And I wonder how long I can be happy. This is a threat because how long can I be happy if I let getting - if I don't get any solutions? Or are there any solutions? Feel like oh sure I'll take a nap. [46:22]


(Laughter)


COUNSELOR: That sounds like me (inaudible at 46:26) 


PATIENT: No. That sounds like I'm scared. 


COUNSELOR: Felt like yeah you were evolved (ph). Okay, I can maintain this a while but if I feel like it doesn't go anywhere.


PATIENT: Yeah.


COUNSELOR: Or nothing changes. And I don't get some kind of answer some way it would be different. I can at least feel good about it.


PATIENT: Yeah. But see I guess another thing - another reason I didn't want to go into therapy you know I thought that maybe therapy could meet this time wasn't too good is because of the fact that I was making it. I was making it alright. And then kind of saying therapy is the last ditch stand right before I was committed for alcoholism and right before I was committed for just frank insanity. Time to go into therapy and be able to put it out. And it's the sort of thing of - until I got over here (inaudible at 47:27) about these things. Because I don't think I can - I can't underestimate this problem with the way it is. It has been a thing that has been eating my gut away for years and years and years. You know.


COUNSELOR: (inaudible at 47:45)


PATIENT: (inaudible at 47:46) It is so great. I mean incidents after incidents after incidents. (sighs) The things I saw my father do. The things he said to me about how I should regard women. (inaudible at 48:02)


COUNSELOR: That's been kind of contradictory.


PATIENT: Right. 


COUNSELOR: (inaudible at 48:06)


PATIENT: I mean crazy or whatever. I deal with nothing but boys except for my mother in my family - all men. And I can remember my father when I asked a question one time. You know I had never seen a woman's genitalia. He drew it on a napkin. I mean you know what kind of introduction is he drawing on a napkin. I don't know how you do that. I'm - because I know my boys are probably going to ask me the same thing. I want to answer their question but I don't want to draw it on a napkin sort of thing. I kind of and my brother's sitting there at the - of all things - the dining room table. It was a big thing for us. You know that's where I got my examination as to what I did with which girl. You know this real kind of - it's a lot of crap way back. [49:01]


COUNSELOR: So it was kind of like watching over your shoulder?


PATIENT: Yeah. And a lot of funny feelings that I had that you know so even though they were - it was important to be exploited and all, it was making me feel very guilty - very sinful you know kind of very fundamentalist. And that fundamentalism also give me this were these reins you know fundamental religious background - Baptist stuff. You know sex is not neat or fine. It's dirty. And it's used only in child bearing sort of stuff you know. So that it has over the years you know just like a fan or whatever gradually by wrapping it around me it cut off some of the circulation. So I guess that's - I guess I don't know if it's okay to talk about it. And it's okay to talk about it and then you won't you know if it's okay to talk about it and it doesn't bore the hell out of you. It's one of my major problems with you know I may bring it up many times but let me know if it begins to bother you. I feel like I can get around things.


COUNSELOR: Feels like it's a real - real important.


PATIENT: Yeah. But I guess I'm waiting for you to say you know I'm bored with that topic. You know what I mean? What I'm talking about? You may say that some day but then I'll probably pout. But it's I guess it's the thing that really hurts me the most. 


COUNSELOR: Like you said too it's awful hard for you to just kind of wait and see how I feel. 


PATIENT: Yeah.


COUNSELOR: Because I suddenly felt like you were saying well I know you're going to be bored. (Inaudible at 50:56) I'm not. I don't feel bored. (laughs) But you know I'm seeing you're kind of anticipating it maybe so then if that happened then it wouldn't hurt. 


PATIENT: Right. Right. (Inaudible at 51:11) I wouldn't let you hurting 


COUNSELOR: Yeah.


PATIENT: You see. I'm old enough to know.


COUNSELOR: Yeah.


PATIENT: I'd like for you to be able to react and not to hurt (inaudible at 51:25) because the people - you know there are people who can say things to me. And it doesn't hurt that bad. But the ones who I really care about when they say something it really hurts. 


COUNSELOR: Yeah something like you - do you care and also you've opened it.


PATIENT: Right. And that really hurts. And I bet you our time is up. Our time is up. That's incredible. It's like an alarm clock that you wake up right before it rings. (laughs)


COUNSELOR: Yeah. (laughs)


PATIENT: Good. I know. 


COUNSELOR: Go get some tea.


PATIENT: Hey I like this time. I really do. The earlier morning hours.


COUNSELOR: Good I think I'm - I'm an early morning type myself (laughs) so.


PATIENT: I use to get up every morning at 4:30 and deliver 500 papers. And then by 6 o'clock I'd delivered half of them.


COUNSELOR: Yeah. Well good. Good. So I owe you. I think it sounds like we both feel better in the mornings. Same - you want it Friday morning?


PATIENT: Right.


COUNSELOR: Okay then that's a


PATIENT: Hey I got a question to ask you. 


COUNSELOR: Okay.


PATIENT: What is this jazz? Is it a big rumor or does it got some bases to it or what's the sit - you know - are they really thinking about closing this?


COUNSELOR: Oh. Well I don't know how solid it is yet.


PATIENT: Is there any reason for it?


COUNSELOR: Well it's the whole clinical program. I mean they were questioning about this - is that what you're talking about?


PATIENT: Yeah.


COUNSELOR: Yeah. There's a real question about the whole clinical program whether to have one here. And if they don't oh course then there's a (inaudible at 53:11) But it wouldn't be (inaudible at 53:15). You know it would be like a year facing outcomes.


PATIENT: That's crazy. It really is because you know it sounds like the mice when they use people to take over.


(Laughter)


PATIENT: I work with mice and I appreciate - respect my mice but they can't tell you their problems. And you know if you're training graduate students to not have this time of MOU. Time for you to lose something.


COUNSELOR: Okay. I've got to pee oh course.


PATIENT: Right.


COUNSELOR: But I guess it really isn't settled yet. 


PATIENT: I hope it doesn't.


COUNSELOR: The rumors just keep building up. 


PATIENT: What they need is for Carl Rogers to come back and haunt them a little.


COUNSELOR: Yeah. (laughs)


PATIENT: Thank you.


COUNSELOR: Okay.


PATIENT: That was nice talking to you.


COUNSELOR: You too. Have a good trip.


PATIENT: Okay. Bye-Bye.


END TRANSCRIPT
