TRANSCRIPT OF AUDIO FILE:
______________________________________________________________________________
BEGIN TRANSCRIPT:
COUNSELOR: Great.
PATIENT: It's not working?
COUNSELOR: It is, it's going.
PATIENT: Oh God, I'm just  - 
COUNSELOR: What?
PATIENT: Well, I'm sure the time will pass, but I just can't deal with these babysitters. I come home last night, they're locked out. And I go into the house, and somehow the coffee machine has been melted onto the stove, which is something that doesn't even belong to me; I borrowed it. And this woman claims that, you know, she didn't touch anything. Somehow doesn't know how she got locked out. Somehow she doesn't know how the coffee machine is like melted all over the stove, even though the housekeeper was there answering (inaudible at 00:46). And then this morning she talks to me and tells me it's my fault because I didn't tell her that the bottom lock didn't work. (Inaudible at 00:59) could not say why.
COUNSELOR: Oh so she closed the door behind her and it locked.
PATIENT: Yeah, but it's never locked. I mean I've never pushed that button ever.
COUNSELOR: I see.
PATIENT: So obviously she must have pushed it. Yeah, so fine, it is partially my fault, but you know, it's her fault too for not calling me and asking me, you know, how to lock the door (inaudible at 1:20)
COUNSELOR: So you're finding that maybe she just goes to defend herself and doesn't really take responsibility and say "I did this?"
PATIENT: Right, or "I may have done this." Instead it's like, "Excuse me, who did this," you know. And I think it's even worse for me (inaudible at 1:41) people who like don't admit to what's happened. I mean if she just said "Yeah, maybe it was me (inaudible at 1:51) and instead she just like sits there and the day passes, she goes home, and still I haven't had a clear answer if she thinks it was her or whether I have to call the housekeeper, which the housekeeper has never done that so why should she do that now? And I just don't need it, you know. And then I don't need to be attacked in the morning and blamed that it's my fault. So I just (inaudible at 2:31).
COUNSELOR: What you mean - you can't begin to work this out but it sounds really kind of annoying, you know, that these things you leave in your house, you know...
PATIENT: And somebody else might come home and it will be burned down and they'll be "I don't know how that happened. I was just (inaudible at 2:49) what they're making, you know, for these people.
COUNSELOR: Now how did you find this particular one?
PATIENT: I get them, but not through the agency. The agency hasn't come up with anybody yet.
COUNSELOR: So this is a temp?
PATIENT: Yeah. I guess - you know, I guess $3,000 is just going to have to appear from somewhere because (inaudible at 3:18) other thing. This woman is a mature woman and you know, she goes "Well, maybe it's because I can only handle the baby. I can only deal with the baby in my other job. For the past five years I've only had to take care of the baby." I'm like "What else are you taking care of? I mean it's not like you were there all day yesterday. What exactly -"
COUNSELOR: Yeah, it's they're beyond -
PATIENT: "I mean like what exactly were you doing beyond your duties of taking care of the baby? Oh, you mean because you had to lock the door?" I mean I hope I didn't say that but -
COUNSELOR: So she just didn't take her key with her? Is that what it is?
PATIENT: No she somehow -
COUNSELOR: - when she left?
PATIENT: - managed to lock the bottom lock. 
COUNSELOR: And then left the house.
A: Right. [4:00]
COUNSELOR: But without the keys. Or there's no key to the bottom lock.
PATIENT: Right. I mean I wasn't (inaudible at 4:15) but then this friend of mine got mad at me. She said you're complaining about this babysitter, every single one of them has problems. If they were a rocket scientist they wouldn't be (inaudible at 4:26).
COUNSELOR: What do you think of that? That goes back to the expectation issue; is the expectation too high or -
PATIENT: I don't know if I held too high of an expectation, but you know $100 a day, that's with this girl who's gone to University of Virginia and has an business degree is going to make when she does craft service next week, which is a servant handing out peanut butter and jelly sandwiches to a crew on the (inaudible at 4:51). Now if this girl can do craft service on a sum for $100 a day, how come this woman, who gets paid $100 a day somehow can't be a little bit... I mean it's not like this job doesn't pay anything.
COUNSELOR: Yeah. Let me ask you something. Do you think that she might be scared to incur your wrath by admitting that maybe, you know, to admit that she did something wrong, that somehow she'd be in such serious trouble that she'd rather just say "I don't know"?
PATIENT: Well then I need to explain to her that if she came clean with it I wouldn't be upset. The fact that I sit here and get lied to is something I will not put up with and that's it. I will not pay somebody $100 a day to sit there and deny and lie to me. That is just not appropriate in my life, ever.
COUNSELOR: Because one of the things you might do is set an atmosphere where if you said, "Look, during the day some things might happen, you know. The most important thing for me is that I know about it; you know, like the door might get locked or something like that. But that the most important thing is that you at least feel like you're going to be able to tell me what takes place, that there be honesty, that that's just the most important thing to me," and really setting the framework.[6:12] 
PATIENT: Usually I do that but somehow she misheard that or you know now I think it might be just hispanic way. You know, they lose faith -
COUNSELOR: If they say something, yeah.
PATIENT: Yeah.
COUNSELOR: Yeah. Because things are bad. People are sort of (inaudible at 6:28) and their finger might have touched that button and she just might feel like "Better for me to say it wasn't me than to accept responsibility and have someone be furious." I mean she might be feeling like...
PATIENT: I think I said that today. I said "Did you ever say in my (inaudible at 6:45) if it was I'll look into it so that it doesn't happen again"?
COUNSELOR: Yeah.
PATIENT: You know, that's all. No big deal.
COUNSELOR: Yeah, it's just trying to squeeze the information out that's really -
PATIENT: Right.
COUNSELOR: - annoying you but somehow -
PATIENT: But two people leave at the end of the day that I've spent like a huge amount of money on, somehow I don't even know like how we got locked out of the apartment.
COUNSELOR: Yeah.
PATIENT: You know, I just don't need it. (Inaudible at 7:14) It just doesn't seem to make any sense to me.
COUNSELOR: So how did you get in?
PATIENT: Because downstairs in the basement, which she had also read the sheet of which - I have a sheet in the medicine bag that always goes with the baby in the diaper bag that says, in an emergency, if you get locked out for example or something else happens the apartment, go downstairs and ask the superintendent to let you into the building.
COUNSELOR: So what did she do during that time?
PATIENT: She ran downstairs, and the guy was like doing something else and he was then going to go downstairs and get her the key, and then she like started running and I like absconded her in the park. She was on her way to my office where I wasn't even - I was late for an appointment. I had called for an hour and a half; no one answers the phone. And so I was getting really worried so I ran home and I was late for my appointment and I happened to like run into her. [8:14]
COUNSELOR: Bump into her.
PATIENT: Yes.
COUNSELOR: I see. So she had gone down to get the super, but he said she would be next and she got nervous.
PATIENT: Yeah. I mean she said she went down there to help. She didn't read the sheet.
COUNSELOR: I see. But she was just - figured to do that.
PATIENT: Right, but she didn't figure to do it -
COUNSELOR: She didn't stay around.
PATIENT: I mean she was just like running around.
COUNSELOR: Yeah, she was just - got anxious.
PATIENT: She didn't say "Could you please call me at the office" or anything, you know.
COUNSELOR: She just didn't have a calm way about her which you felt like she was really in control  - 
PATIENT: Right, right.
COUNSELOR: - and could handle this kind of - you just didn't feel assured.
PATIENT: No. I mean what if it happened - you know, what -
COUNSELOR: Like sends her into a tizzy somehow.
PATIENT: Well, yeah.
COUNSELOR: Yeah.
PATIENT: Or somehow she didn't notice the stove got turned on and that's also a dangerous thing. 
COUNSELOR: And she's not acknowledging it.
PATIENT: Yeah. I just gave her money to buy a bib for the baby for lunch, and then as I'm walking out the door she asks "So where's the money?" You know, what is the problem here?
COUNSELOR: You don't feel like she's catching on, she's clued in. Well, you know, you really have a sense that she's not clued in, and you know, it's not an unheard of situation how people go through several or a series of babysitters until you find one, you know what I mean?
PATIENT: I know.
COUNSELOR: That's part of this is really kind of going with your judgment and saying this is yet another one. I mean how many have you had? You've had three or four?
PATIENT: Try-outs (inaudible at 9:57) galore and I never took a clear invitation. And I didn't really like this one and the only reason why I took her was because there was nobody else applying right at that second. [10:07]
COUNSELOR: And that was like the other one that was irresponsible was the fill-in from the one that you like.
PATIENT: Right.
COUNSELOR: So the convenience way, you know what I mean, I can understand you needed someone to fill in, but on the other hand they're not necessarily the right one.
PATIENT: Right.
COUNSELOR: Well, it's another thing on your mind which has really freed you up last week. You were saying no to (inaudible at 10:34).
PATIENT: Yeah - well, it totally confused me. I mean how can I feel I'm doing anything at work or whatever if I have this horrible thing hanging over my head that, number one, if they destroyed my house while I'm not there, and number two, how are they taking care of the child?
COUNSELOR: Yeah, so you're preoccupied with it. But yet, you've decided somehow that you'd go with it for another day. But somewhere inside of you you're thinking that -
PATIENT: Well, she's only working half a day and she's only really helping me get to be near a hospital.
COUNSELOR: Okay.
PATIENT: You know, and she's handling it so I can go on one appointment that I've got to get to this meeting.
COUNSELOR: Okay. And it's important for you to tune into and recognize that you don't get so consumed that, you know, you're kind of limiting her right now as to what her scope is today. You know, it's not too... And you somehow in you're mind you're thinking it's so limited that you really were believing it could be managed today with her, with the baby. But somewhere inside it seems like you were believing that somehow things would kind of make it today. Otherwise, do you think you would have really left her with the baby if you really felt this was just a disaster at any moment? I mean really kind of search yourself with that. Have you thought of, you know...
PATIENT: Well, because yeah, maybe I don't worry about the baby enough. I don't think I really have that sensibility. Somehow I'm so trusting of the world that somehow -
COUNSELOR: You're not sounding so trusting to me. [12:09]
PATIENT: Yeah, but I don't sound so trusting, but on a global scale it never occurred to me that - it never occurs to me. Like when people say to me, "Well Christina, are you sure you should leave the house then?" I mean that never occurs to me, I mean that somebody could really be that dangerous? I don't even believe those people exist in the world.
COUNSELOR: But you're telling me that you don't think she's so with it or so on top of things (inaudible at 12:34) how do I know the house is going to break down - I mean burn down or - I mean here you are telling me that you're really, on a pretty serious level, not trusting her to the point where you really want to get someone else.
PATIENT: Right, and yet, I leave the baby with her.
COUNSELOR: Well, that's what I'm wondering is that are you thinking that somehow she's -you know, really, she's not the most reliable person, but somehow you don't think that the baby's in clear and immediate danger with her; that somehow she's -
PATIENT: See, I do the kind of thing that other parents would never do. [Parents used to be - they want to talk to me] (ph) so I'll go over there to get something. Anybody else would go "Christina, a baby snatcher could be out there at any time. Never like let the baby out of your sight for one second." I don't live that kind of life. I'm the one that leaves my door open to my apartment all of the time.
COUNSELOR: Your door; you don't lock your door at night?
PATIENT: At night I do now, but when I lived at the loft I never did.
COUNSELOR: But how about now?
PATIENT: Yeah, I do, but I leave it open [like a lot] (ph). I mean open. I leave the door open.
COUNSELOR: Because you're feeling what when you do that? That you -
PATIENT: The apartment is too small and I want more room.
COUNSELOR: So it makes you feel less claustrophobic. [14:02]
PATIENT: Yeah.
COUNSELOR: And you're thinking, "Well, nothing's really going to happen here" so you don't lock it up. So other things kind of outweigh the safety, not as -
PATIENT: Yeah. I feel like almost that kind of mother. You know, if someone said, "Oh, I'll watch your baby for a second while you pick out the tomatoes or something." If they didn't look like an axe murderer I would say "fine."
COUNSELOR: Because then you would be thinking "what's the likelihood" or it doesn't even occur to you?
PATIENT: It doesn't even occur to me, that's why.
COUNSELOR: Except it's occurring to you now.
PATIENT: Well, because people will say to me, you know... I don't quite - yeah, I mean I can exaggerate the story and say, you know, "What happens if she does burn the house down?" I don't expect her to burn the house down. Obviously (inaudible at 14:52) I don't expect anyone to burn any house down. I don't expect anything to really be that bad in the world is what I'm trying to say.
COUNSELOR: Right. But even though that happened to the stove, you're really thinking no one would burn the house down.
PATIENT: Right. It's like -
COUNSELOR: It wouldn't really be that bad.
PATIENT: Well, see like because I expect everyone to be like me; that how could they possibly ever burn the house down? I mean that just doesn't happen anymore.
COUNSELOR: So on the one hand you say you kind of see yourself as being very responsible, and the other hand you're saying "But sometimes I'm so trusting that other people might fear that that's irresponsible?"
PATIENT: Right.
COUNSELOR: So on one hand you're saying "I'm really responsible." On the other hand you're saying "Other people might look at me and say I'm not that responsible."
PATIENT: Well, or not paranoid about things.
COUNSELOR: Paranoid. So if you're not totally trusting, you're paranoid? Does that say choices?
PATIENT: No, but you know, people that are like every single thing that happens - like this friend of mine, you know, like the Tide fell off the shelf and got in her son's eyes; she like totally blames herself. Well, you know, that's not her fault, that the Tide fell off the shelf and -
COUNSELOR: You can't prevent every single possible event. [16:13]
PATIENT: And then you know, since the baby was standing up behind the door and I was (inaudible at 16:17) together, she opened the door on the baby and smashed him in the face. Well, I'm sure that I would feel bad too if that happened, you know, why did I do that, but I mean there she is like hysterical, you know, smoking cigarette after cigarette when she doesn't really smoke, because somehow she was just like - that's the type of thing -
COUNSELOR: A careless thing and blames herself. But I wonder is there something in between feeling completely trusting, that nothing bad will happen, and being so paranoid that you can't really function. You know what I mean? There's like - those are such extremes, both of them, you know what I mean? I'm wondering what might be maybe in the middle for you. Could there be anything in the middle, do you think?
PATIENT: I don't know, because I don't have any middle.
COUNSELOR: No middle? Well, what might be in the middle? I mean even if you don't tend to adopt the middle position but the middle certainly exists, even though, Christina, you're saying that you don't usually get there.
PATIENT: (Inaudible at 17:16) for me though.
COUNSELOR: Yeah, and it has (ph), but it exists in the abstract, you know what I'm saying? There is really a middle; you're just finding yourself seeing the extremes. And it would be useful, don't you think, if we could talk a little bit about this large area?
PATIENT: Sure. I'm certainly willing to attempt the gray, just (inaudible at 17:36).
COUNSELOR: Okay. I mean what do you think might be useful about the gray, like in this situation? Like what might be some gray? I think we're on the middle area here; we're between paranoid and total trust. What might be some other approaches that might pull someone in the middle?
PATIENT: I have no idea. My mind is blank. [18:09]
COUNSELOR: That what might be something in the middle? One of the things - you know, I'll make a suggestion that you had a high level of concern, which, you know, you're not paranoid. I'm not saying that everywhere I turn someone's out to get me, but a high level of concern using information about possible hazards, you know what I mean? Keeping them in mind and acting accordingly, you know what I mean, would be different from so anxious that one is paranoid, you know what I mean? And can't move at all. And the other level would be - it wouldn't be all the way over to, "Well, I'll be so trusting of the universe because nothing really bad could possibly happen," you know what I mean? No one's really going to take advantage. 
So I think that being very concerned, using the information that you have about, you know, the range of possible outcomes, you know what I mean? Using that knowledge to your benefit. So for example knowing that it is possible for people to take advantage of other people and take a baby when they're just kind of looking like they're not a baby snatcher, but who knows. Using that information, not everyone is to be trusted so quickly with a baby. 
PATIENT: But then how am I supposed to know the difference between a baby snatcher and -
COUNSELOR: You can't, you know, because people don't wear tags.
PATIENT: (inaudible at 19:37) size them up or something and then what happens when something happens? Then you do blame yourself because you've taken the position that you did thoroughly screen them.
COUNSELOR: But Christina, the point is that having a high level of concern - walking around me, I'm concerned, right? Just walking around with that sense of "I'm in charge of this baby. This baby is best left with me rather than a stranger."
PATIENT: Of course I'm concerned.
COUNSELOR: Right.
PATIENT: I mean you know, I'm not going to like all of a sudden sit my baby at the end of the pool and go off and have tea somewhere, you know. [20:14]
COUNSELOR: Right. So using that same level of concern, when you're in a supermarket, saying the baby is best off if I'm in eye contact with the baby unless the baby is not in eye contact with me - the baby is most safe if I can see the baby. But that doesn't mean you have to be paranoid that "definitely someone's going to take my baby," all right? And it's also not saying, "Well, the whole world is kind and benevolent and nothing bad will happen." It's somewhere in the middle. You're not guaranteeing that the world is out to get you, but you're saying "I'm going to rely on me here. I'm not going to put my faith in the goodness of humankind, because not all of humankind is to be relied on that way, and I'm also not going to walk around saying that definitely something bad's going to happen so I better be like this. I'm just going to say, "Well, I don't need to take that risk," or maybe concerned enough that I'm just going to keep my eye on the baby.
So you don't have to walk around with such anxiety and tension. You also don't have to walk around saying "The world must be benevolent or I can't function," you know?
PATIENT: I don't have to. I just wish that the world would run like that.
COUNSELOR: I know, I wish it were.
PATIENT: I mean like this receptionist borrows money from me in the office and like the next day I'm waiting for the money and she doesn't pay me back. And then all of a sudden I ask her and she's like "Oh, well, I'll get it to you." And then I realize that she didn't pay me back for like ten days and she made me feel like bad that I was asking her for the money. Well, I would never borrow money from somebody unless I knew that I was going to give it right back to them without asking them and saying to them, "Well, I really won't be able to pay it back for about ten days, is that okay." [21:59]
COUNSELOR: Let me ask you something now. When you go from wishing that the world were different and is much more benevolent and could be (inaudible at 22:08) for that in every interaction, what happens when you find - and you have a very strong wish (ph) and you find that it doesn't follow, that the world doesn't -
PATIENT: Well, I'm not going to loan any money to that girl again.
COUNSELOR: So you just figure I'm not going to have that happen. But when you realize that this person wasn't benevolent and kind and wasn't someone to be trusted, what happens? Do you start feeling - I don't know. What happens?
PATIENT: Well, for one, then I become racist, because of course this woman's black, so then I think you know they just don't have any manners and I don't understand that type of behavior.
COUNSELOR: So then it's just like a general thing that happens, that you generalize that all people who might look like her -
PATIENT: Well, no. I mean it's just yet another indication that that happened. Otherwise I wouldn't have given her the money to begin with. I never thought of that before. It just seems like somehow, you know, I'm not really thinking along the same wavelengths or something. 
COUNSELOR: You start feeling defeated somehow at all that the world -
PATIENT: Yeah, defeated enough so that I don't choose to loan her money again.
COUNSELOR: Right.
PATIENT: You know, if she wants some, I'll just say I don't have any.
COUNSELOR: Right. I mean with her you're using that information - like I was saying to you before - you're going to use that information to kind of guide how you act with her. You're going to use this prior experience and use it to your benefit. Well, that makes sense. That makes a lot of sense. 
PATIENT: Well, it's not to my benefit. I mean I don't need to be tricked.
COUNSELOR: I don't mean benefit in a way that - using someone. I meant using the information the way to benefit future interactions so that you're not getting stunned by her. [24:09]
PATIENT: Right.
COUNSELOR: You're going to use that information. You have a level of concern and you're going to use that prior experience to help guide you in the future, right? But I'm wondering what happens to this strong wish that you have, which I could certainly share with you; I wish the world were different. But when you find out it's not, I'm just wondering what happens inside of you? Do you feel -
PATIENT: Well, like totally turn the other way. Okay, she couldn't return the money on time so that's fine, that's the end of that, and I will never loan her money again.
COUNSELOR: Turn the other way from her or do you feel like you turned - shut yourself down from other people too?
PATIENT: Well, no. I mean I don't want to have to go through this whole like explanation and lesson the next time she asks me for money and I'll have to say to her, you know, "I loaned you money before and I expect, when I loan money, that I get paid back the very next day." Or I expect somebody to explain to me exactly when you're going to pay me back. You know, it's not like I'm JB Rockefeller or anything like that.
COUNSELOR: Yeah.
PATIENT: Hand over the money, so right, left and center. So if you ever want to borrow - or if you plan on borrowing money from me again, you know, that's the way that it's got to be. Otherwise I'm not loaning you any and that's it. Because I've got to -
COUNSELOR: Right, take care of yourself and -
PATIENT: And I don't want to worry that somehow my money is going to get lost in the shuffle, not that you do that intentionally, but that's not the way that I (inaudible at 25:38).
COUNSELOR: Um-hmm.
PATIENT: I don't think I'm (inaudible at 25:42). But you know, then she's going to take offense to that and feel like - you know, it's not worth explaining.
COUNSELOR: Um-hmm. You just kind of know that this isn't good for you to do in the future.
PATIENT: Right.
COUNSELOR: Right.
PATIENT: And now somebody else borrows money from me, I mean like I don't know. I don't know how they [view the act](ph). I don't know whether this means I'll never loan money again. I don't think so. I don't know. Guess I'll only know when it happens. [26:10]
COUNSELOR: You know, the possibility is just the people won't pull through. You're right, whenever you interact there's a chance that it will -
PATIENT: Yeah, like it's some surprise.
COUNSELOR: Yeah, that's what I'm picking up. Now what do you think about that?
PATIENT: You never think that - either I think it off the bat and I just like - I'm not trusting of them at all and maybe I won't give them the time of day and you know they come in and they're near me and it's like get away from me, or it just does not occur to me at all that - I mean I absolutely had no idea, except for the fact that I did buy her something at the store once, and when she paid me back she paid me less than what I had spent for it, which also I think is something that is not very honorable.
COUNSELOR: You mean tell it to her what it was and she gave you -
PATIENT: Yeah. Well, it's not a lot less, but if anything I would think that she would give me more.
COUNSELOR: Yeah. That was some information there, about how she may view other people's money. You know, when you're putting out for her she just - she's not thinking about putting it back in your pocket. But yet there's still this ominous surprise that the expectation is somehow, when you're interacting with people, is that they'll either be completely untrustworthy or very trustworthy, and again, it's that sense of -
PATIENT: Well, what would have been different had I taken the glaze (ph) and sized her up? What would have been different? Then I would have said to her immediately, you know, "When I borrow money I pay it back the next day. Is that what's going to happen? You know, is that what you're going to do?" 
COUNSELOR: Well, if you have a concern, if you walk in with this awareness that this person - I don't know how they are with money. They may pay me back or they may not, because we don't know. It's an untested area in terms of you relating to her. So then the next question is, "Is this a risk I'm willing to take here with this money? I mean let's say she doesn't pay me back; is that a risk I can afford to take?" So you're entering it in with this - it's not a definite expectation that she won't pay you back, and it's not a definite expectation that she will; it's a complete unknown. [28:25]
PATIENT: Okay, and then what happens if I have a different feeling and I think I can handle her not paying me money back and then -
COUNSELOR: Then you can take the risk. Then you can decide if it's a risk I want to take. It's a risk. And then you want to assess to yourself, "Is this a risk I'm willing to take. Let's say she doesn't pay me back; could I afford to take that chance?"
PATIENT: Okay, so what is better than that? Am I expending less energy or something?
COUNSELOR: You're thinking ahead of time so that you're not - you're putting yourself in the position of giving yourself more choices and not being taken by surprise. In other words, you're in - before you give the money you have the most control over your money.
PATIENT: I know but the whole thing is whatever people ask me, I do.
COUNSELOR: Yeah, but as if you don't have control over that. When people put out and request, you know, like people are putting out requests, and you have the control over what you do and you don't do  - .
PATIENT: Well, because I mean in that case you just wish they would just comply when you're in an environment, close environment like that. It's not like somebody on the street said, "Hey, can you loan me $10? I'll pay you back next week."
COUNSELOR: Well, that goes back to the expectation that you might have of your co-workers and you're really finding that your experience is that they're not pulling through, or not everyone pulls through in a way that you'd like them to. [29:56]
PATIENT: I really don't like being in an environment where it can't work. You know, I mean that's what work is all about.
COUNSELOR: But you don't get to choose how people - to make everybody that you work with as responsible as you'd like them to be or as careful or as concerned as you'd like them to be.
PATIENT: You know, but that almost seems like (inaudible at 30:22) little support is I mean the whole thing about. I mean that's why I just don't think I function well with just having a job. I just can't do it.
COUNSELOR: See, part of living in the world and being able to kind of get through the day with this less emotional strive as possible is expecting requests to come in with you of all different types of people, because they will. You know, people are going to have things that they want for themselves, and once in a while they may ask something of you. And for you to be evaluating what's in your best interest and what isn't, you know, where are you going to give and where are you going to hold back, and that's something that everybody does. You know, that's part of the way the world kind of operates. What do you think about that?
PATIENT: It just like makes me cry because all I want to do is like give and give and give and not like me have to think about it. You know what I mean?
COUNSELOR: But on the other hand, when you give and give and give and don't think about it, you're left feeling so annoyed and fed up and angry and kind of sad that the world isn't ordered in such a trusting way. So in some ways I know that you wish that the world would be just kind of a benevolent, trusting place, but there's a lot of energy that you spend being frustrated and angry and sad when you just give without being concerned for you. [32:04]
PATIENT: Right, and that's why I don't really see how I would be less so had I thought about, well, can I handle her not paying me back the money I lent her.
COUNSELOR: Well, let's just say you had done that. Let's just say you saw her and she wanted the money. "Can I afford to not get it back?" Because that's the risk, and there you have some control. You could decide, "Gee, I'm not in that position to risk this money," or maybe you could say "Well, it's worth it to me just to try and see, from the office relations, I'd like to try to take this chance and see what happens, but if I don't get the money back or I don't get it all back, at least I learned something. In other words, at that moment before you act is when you have the most control over your destination.
PATIENT: How can you have all those thoughts of like between the mimics of her asking and having to give the money.
COUNSELOR: It goes back to expectations. Your expectations are when you go into the interaction, it's definitely going to work out.
PATIENT: Right.
COUNSELOR: Okay, that's the expectation that you're going through your mind, which is this is going to work out. And it's a matter of recognizing again the awareness issue of what's racing through your mind at that moment, which is an expectation, and trying to work on creating other expectations, which could work out and it might not work out. It's the same moment in time.
PATIENT: I know. I'm sure it would make it better at handling it, but it's like - it just doesn't - I keep having no understanding of like - it just really bums me out kind of thing, you know.
COUNSELOR: Yeah, it's like a sadness and it's like a -
PATIENT: Yeah. I mean I tried to show an apartment the other night and the doorman wouldn't let me in the building even though my client was there, even though I'd like shown that apartment 50 times, because I didn't have the license from the office, which you know it just makes no sense(inaudible at 34:22). And I don't - I absolutely - I mean I know that the world is very bureaucratic now in the sense that I think it's especially [from the United States] (ph), and I just don't know how to handle that. [34:38]
COUNSELOR: You know what strikes me as you're talking is that as you're talking about how bad you feel that people are not necessarily trusting and they're not necessarily responsible to each other, you know, I feel sad about it too. You know, there's kind of a sweetness about that expectation that you have that somehow - this believing in the goodness of human nature in a way. And I think in some ways how in some of this is going to tolerate the sadness that you feel that it's not the way you'd like it to be and believing you can tolerate the sadness. You know what I mean? Because -
PATIENT: But I can't tolerate it because it impinges upon my life and makes my life really difficult.
COUNSELOR: (Inaudible at 35:32).
PATIENT: And I feel so stupid. It's like such a waste of energy to be like obstinate and stupid. It seems like such a waste of energy for people just to be really... I remember when I was pregnant and I -
COUNSELOR: Go back to one thing because it's only about five more minutes. When you tell yourself that you can't tolerate your own sadness, how do you feel? When you just believe that you're not able to tolerate your own emotions?
PATIENT: Not I can't tolerate it. It's that it makes me so frustrated. I feel like how stupid people are and I just - [36:06]
COUNSELOR: Right, but that's part of not - when you get sad -
PATIENT: I should be accepting of people that are stupid like that. It just doesn't make any sense.
COUNSELOR: Do you think you have to be accepting? Do you have to be accepting of people?
PATIENT: Well, what are you supposed to do? I can't change it.
COUNSELOR: That's right (inaudible at 36:23)
PATIENT: Yeah, you have to do like what that thing says. What is it? I used to go to ALANON (ph).
COUNSELOR: That's what you can't change?
PATIENT: Yeah, something like that.
COUNSELOR: Yeah. There's some things that just are  - 
PATIENT: Right. So why should you accept that like a totally moronic thing from like some 300-pound person who can barely speak English and is just trying to like pull his weight or show how important he is or something.
COUNSELOR: When you hear the word "stuck" (ph) do you think, in your mind, you're supposed to like it, you're supposed to prefer it somehow? When you hear the word "accept," what does that mean to you?
PATIENT: That it just rolls right off your shoulders and you don't mind it.
COUNSELOR: I see, that you don't mind it.
PATIENT: Right.
COUNSELOR: So accepting to you means, kind of, you know, "F"? That's what acceptance means to you, so it's no big deal.
PATIENT: Right.
COUNSELOR: I see.
PATIENT: Well, it is a big deal. You know, I lost the client because of that and I wasted an hour of my time.
COUNSELOR: Well, (inaudible at 37:31) acceptance could mean something else than saying that just doesn't float all right with me. Could acceptance mean something other than that? Because I'm wondering if that's just really - it's something that's not going to - you're not going to achieve is not minding something. You have a strong desire for people to act differently than they are, and that's your preference, and it's just not going to change just with you just like trying to force yourself to say "Well, let me try to not want this." You really want people to act kindly towards others with responsibility, right? That's your strong preference. But that's not going to go away it doesn't sound like. [38:19] 
PATIENT: Well, like when I had that talk with the people at the pharmacy and explained to them that I was a neighbor of theirs and that they should treat people who are living in the neighborhood with more consideration and then that they would continue to be their clients. And I told you when there's people who were really so stupid and they refuse to believe in that Medicaid pharmacy thing (inaudible at 38:50). 
COUNSELOR: Right, it's going to be bad for business if they don't shape up, yeah.
PATIENT: And they changed immediately. 
COUNSELOR: Right. So that was good that you were able to persuade them to act differently. In other words, accepting -
PATIENT: To just say "Oh, it doesn't bother me that they're being so ridiculous about -"
COUNSELOR: Well, that's what I mean. Acceptance doesn't mean pretend that something doesn't bother me. That's not what acceptance really means. 
PATIENT: Okay, so what does it mean then?
COUNSELOR: It really means an acknowledgement that this really is the way it is. In other words, when you bump up against the doorman who's going to follow a bureaucratic order and is not going to trust you, you have a strong preference and desire that he would act differently, and that's a very powerful feeling that you have and it's not just going to go away. And part of this acknowledging that you have this strong desire but recognizing that the reality is not according to your preference, and just acknowledging that gap between what you'd prefer and what you're getting, just acknowledging that what you want is not what's happening and just letting that be. Let that gap exist. 
Now sometimes you might say "Well, let me see if I can get this person to change their mind." That's one way to close the gap, you know what I mean? "Let's just see if I can get the pharmacy to change their mind," which you did. You persuaded them, which is good. You changed the stubbornness there or their ignorance. But sometimes the gap won't change. You know, you try to convince this person, like the doorman, and he doesn't change his mind, he's frozen, and there's a gap between what you prefer and the way he's acting. [40:43]
PATIENT: I kind of prefer it the way that it should be.
COUNSELOR: Well, your -
PATIENT: (Cross talk) my particular preference. I mean you know it's not because that's not the norm. I mean I showed that apartment 50 times already and all of a sudden -
COUNSELOR: But basically what it is, is what it is, whether or not you would like it to be different. And even though you have an idea about how things would be better off if it were more your way, he doesn't have to change, even though you might - you could give me a lot of arguments that would be better if he did. For him and for you it would be better. And I'm not disagreeing with you, but I am saying that he didn't change his mind and that was the reality. Whether it would have been better or it wouldn't have been better, he didn't change his mind.
Acceptance means recognizing that there's that gap between what you want from him and what he's giving you and acknowledging it, allowing yourself to feel that frustration and then letting it go and just say there it is, that there's the gap and letting it go. Rather than staying with it and holding onto it and trying to fight him inside of yourself. Just saying yeah, it doesn't always go the way I want it to. I tried my best. Sometimes I persuade people, sometimes I don't. If I don't accept that there's a gap sometimes, I'm just going to get myself upset.
PATIENT: You know, I'm upset at me. The whole thing is that it would be nice to be have time to like think about whether you are going to get upset or whether you're not. I'm already upset at the very, like - I mean it's like an instant thing.
COUNSELOR: Why?
A: It's not like something that I decided to think about.
COUNSELOR: Well, the idea is how long are you going to let yourself continue to be upset about it? You can cut your losses. Once you recognize you're getting upset the idea is to say "Wait a minute, how long do I want to hold onto this?" Upset is "I'm only hurting myself right now. I'm not in the apartment, okay?"
PATIENT: Right.
COUNSELOR: "Now I'm just moping around really upset." Who's losing here? It's you, because you're just getting yourself so upset at that moment. The reality didn't change. The only thing now that is happening is that you're destructing you.
PATIENT: Right.
COUNSELOR: So at that moment that you recognize it, that you're walking around that distressed, is the moment that you need to start working on you and say "Look, I tried to persuade him; I couldn't. I'd prefer he be different but he's not. Best I just accept or acknowledge this gap, acknowledge my frustration and sadness, but then try to move away from it and say that's what it was, unfortunately. Doesn't have to color my whole day. This is a very difficult, lousy situation. I don't have to make myself upset all day. I can acknowledge it, accept what it was, and put it over there and continue on." Otherwise you are losing because you're just getting yourself silked (ph) quite often. You're carrying it with you. It's like a ball and chain. You know, you need to cut it off and say "Okay, I accept that this was not what I liked. I accept that it didn't go my way. I accept that I didn't like this guy's attitude. But I'm not going to carry it all in my ankle." [44:19]
PATIENT: Okay so where is it? It doesn't go anywhere. It's still there. The guy is still like that.
COUNSELOR: That's right, the guy is still like that. A part of it is really learning to accept that there is going to be some people who just are not [brat] (ph) perform or act in a way that you'd like them to. You're still going to have his way of looking at it.
PATIENT: I know, but I still have to deal with it. It's not over.
COUNSELOR: That's right. Well, what do you mean you still have to deal with it? You mean the next time you see him?
PATIENT: Yeah.
COUNSELOR: That's right. You're going to need to say to yourself "The next time I bump into this guy I better expect that he's going to have the same viewpoint, because I don't think he's so changed. So let me try to develop a strategy for handling some of the uncomfortableness of that. Best I expect him to just stay the way he is. I don't have to like it, but I better strategize around it."
PATIENT: Yeah, but why does it have to be so complicated?
COUNSELOR: Because not everyone's going to be designed to your liking.
PATIENT: I mean the thing that I don't do is the artificial. So I'll feel like throwing this whole song and dance now for this guy because he's the way he is? That's not legitimate, that's not true to being myself.
COUNSELOR: No, that's what you need to do is to decide "What's my goal with this person? What is it that I'm hoping to achieve with this person and what's the best way for me to accomplish that?" That's really what you want to be focused on is your goal. What is your goal the next time you meet up with him? What is your goal? And then you want to stay true to your goal; there's nothing phony in that. You're trying to show an apartment, that's your goal, and that's the sole reason you're dealing with this man. You're not dealing with him to have a best friend. You're not dealing with him to have him prove to you that the world is really a good and benevolent place. You're just trying to develop a goal, which is to get into the building, and you're putting a lot more onto that relationship, you know what I mean? He's taking on a lot more meaning. All you really want to achieve with this guy is getting into the building, not to show the goodness of human nature. [46:34]
PATIENT: I think everyone should be showing the goodness of human nature.
COUNSELOR: Well, but that's a larger philosophic issue; that you would prefer that everyone at all times would show the goodness of human nature.
PATIENT: On whatever level they are.
COUNSELOR: But they don't always. And that's the gap that you are bumping into, which is they don't always act as you wish they would. And what you're going to need to do is to look at how are they really acting and learn to respond what is really there rather than what you're wishing would be there. Because you're getting kind of stuck in "I wish it were different, I wish it were different," and feeling really defeated and sad and -
PATIENT: Well, my boss at work said that somehow I must have been the one to antagonize him and that's why he was so mean to me.
COUNSELOR: Sounds like to me that you have a goal with people, and somehow the goal becomes very expanded to be - go beyond just "I want to get into the building." It becomes a representation that the world isn't a good or safe place for Christina. And you get very stuck there; that's what it's sounding like to me.
PATIENT: Well, this is what I thought was actually thinking that what the problem was with Anna, maybe she's new (ph) too. I can't identify human beings as to what kinds of relationships I have with them. 
COUNSELOR: Yeah, come over and look on the narrow.
PATIENT: What do you mean?
COUNSELOR: I mean like this doorman, the relationship. What you're trying to achieve there is pretty circumscribed. You know, somehow he starts taking on when he kind of didn't go along with what you really strongly preferred he do. He started to represent badness in human nature and other kinds of things.
PATIENT: Well, that is sort of an example of that.
COUNSELOR: I understand, but then what happens is the focus of how do I get into this building gets lost and what takes over instead is just this feeling of sadness and defeat. And the more I think you're focused on what you're trying to accomplish with people, you know -
PATIENT: But that's like using them then.
COUNSELOR: But you're not - we're going to need to add that we probably should talk about what all of that means to you in terms of using people. But you really do have goals that you want to achieve. You really do have goals. When you're working you have goals.
PATIENT: (Cross talk) frustrated. It's like a snake in the grass. It's almost another way to approach people every time. It's like you're approaching a (inaudible at 49:24) and you want to get out.
COUNSELOR: Well, when you go to that building you're trying to achieve something that's pretty much above board; there's no real secret in it. When you're going and talking with him, you want to get into the apartment.
PATIENT: Yeah, but now it's a secret, because now all of a sudden it's something that can either happen or not happen.
COUNSELOR: Well, but that was always true that you didn't -
PATIENT: Well, no it wasn't. See, I didn't know that.
COUNSELOR: You might not have known it, but it was always there. You could either get in or not get in, but your goal really is to get into the building. That really is your goal and that's your job. There's nothing really sneaky about it. Your goal isn't to become a best friend of his necessarily. Your goal isn't to invite him to dinner or -
PATIENT: Yeah, but now my goal is to somehow change his mindset and to let me do something to maneuver him. I mean basically I'm not a good manipulator.
COUNSELOR: Yeah. Before you were thinking "If he would just do it then I wouldn't have to figure out another way in. I wouldn't have to -
PATIENT: I'm not some sleuth, private eye, you know  - 
COUNSELOR: Figure out other ways, but not everyone is going to go along with the initial game plan, which is just say yes. "I'm just not going to do it"; that's what you saw from him. He's just not going to necessarily say yes. So you're right. The next step then is to think through what are some things that I would need to do in order to get into this building, and do I want to do those things or not?
PATIENT: I don't want to.
COUNSELOR: Yeah.
PATIENT: And I feel assured, but I never want to do anything where I have to like be an actress in order to do it. I'm not trying to go behind anyone's back. The woman hired us to show the apartment, and it's not legitimate that he won't let me into the building and that's it. I shouldn't have to like maneuver my way into getting him to like see it my way. There's nothing to see my way. It's not my way, I'm just doing what I'm told.
COUNSELOR: Yeah, but he's just not following along.
PATIENT: You know, I just -
COUNSELOR: See, the thing is that you can sit here with me and say "It's not right, he ought to let me in," and I can sit here and say to you "Yeah, that's true," but that doesn't change the fact that he's saying no, just because you might be -
PATIENT: Right.
COUNSELOR: Right.
PATIENT: So I don't see why it's better for my mindset to go "Okay, now let me see what I can do to get him to say yes."
COUNSELOR: The point is, Christina is that the first step is just acknowledging that there's a gap between what you strongly prefer and what he's doing. He's not going to necessarily do it your way or see it your way just because you really believe it's right. There's a gap. [52:11]
PATIENT: Okay, so when I see that gap, what do I do?
COUNSELOR: Well, the first thing is to try to calm yourself down and rather than say it's not there, "It should be my way," which is what happens, you get very, very upset and distraught. The first step is just to notice that, because you're not going to do your best thinking and you're going to be preoccupying yourself during the day with a lot of anxiety and distress during the day. "So you should be seeing it my way. You should be seeing it my way. It's not fair."
PATIENT: I wouldn't get upset if it weren't for that thing to do.
COUNSELOR: But it doesn't matter if you think it's the right thing to do. He doesn't have to change his mind. Being right isn't the issue.
PATIENT: Well then what is the issue in the world?
COUNSELOR: The issue is that just because sometimes you're right doesn't mean that other people are going to agree, and there's a gap there that you're getting really - you get yourself - and there's a gap.
PATIENT: Shouldn't he know the difference between right and wrong? 
COUNSELOR: Whether you think he ought to or not doesn't mean he will. You don't have the opportunity - I shouldn't say opportunity because you might have the opportunity - you don't have the control over him. We don't get to like rock him into seeing things differently. The only thing you have control over is you, and you're going to need to decide, "How much energy do I want to spend on being mad that this guy is the way that he is?" See, you don't get to change his mind. You can try, you can persuade like you did at the pharmacy. You can give good arguments. You can try that, do you know what I mean? But you don't get the control.
PATIENT: Don't tell me I was smart enough to understand it but (inaudible at 53:42).
COUNSELOR: And you might not be. The only thing you get to control in this picture is you and how much emotional energy you're going to put into being upset that he's not different than he is.
PATIENT: Well, I know. It's not like I enjoy spending a lot of time -
COUNSELOR: I don't think you do and I'm not hearing enjoyment in this at all. I don't think -
PATIENT: I don't live off conflict or anything like that.
COUNSELOR: I don't think you enjoy that, Christina. Like there's something that made you think that maybe I thought you enjoyed it? [54:12]
PATIENT: Or that somehow it always happens. You know, if you don't want something, then it shouldn't really happen.
COUNSELOR: So it always happens, then you think that I think you enjoy it?
PATIENT: Yeah, like I want it to happen, somehow I want to get upset.
COUNSELOR: I'm not thinking you want that, I'm thinking what happens when it occurs and you're not sure how to get out of it except if the person would just change.
PATIENT: Okay, well, I'm willing to try and see the gap, but I'm not quite sure of like what I'm doing when I see that.
COUNSELOR: You want to say to yourself - you want to try to listen to some of the demands you might be putting on the situation, and one of them is it has to be different than it is and that's a demand. This world has to turn blue, but then I want it to and it would be a nicer color. It doesn't have to turn into a blue wall.
PATIENT: I know that it's not like that. I mean -
COUNSELOR: He's a wall.
PATIENT: Right or wrong, is that wall any (cross talk).
COUNSELOR: Let's just say that I think it would be a much nicer color if it were blue.
PATIENT: No, that's not the argument. I don't get upset about things like that. I would get upset if somebody said "You don't need a wall here and the ceiling is just (cross talk) off the wall."
COUNSELOR: Okay, so let's just say we did that and someone said they're going to take out the wall and we sit here and say "But if you do, the ceiling's going to fall and it's going to hurt us" and they go and do it anyway.
PATIENT: You know, now that I would say is (inaudible at 55:37).
COUNSELOR: Okay. And you might not like that it happened -
PATIENT: But it hurts other people.
COUNSELOR: Right.
PATIENT: Like him not letting me into the building hurts me and hurts my client.
COUNSELOR: Right.
PATIENT: And hurts the owner of the apartment who can't let - because my client -
COUNSELOR: So because someone might suffer -
PATIENT: Right.
COUNSELOR: Okay.
PATIENT: That is (cross talk) there is absolutely no excuse for that kind of behavior. [56:01]
COUNSELOR: But it doesn't mean that they're not going to continue to do it. And the question is if you can try to persuade - you can try to persuade someone to be different. You can try to maybe - sometimes you can set up consequences for someone so they try to be different, because it's going to hurt them if they don't. But you don't get to make them different. They are the only ones that can make them different, not you.
PATIENT: I know. And this friend of mine last night said that the babysitter - well, if she'd gotten locked out for two hours, then the baby would have been crying, then she would have gotten so upset about the baby crying for an hour that she would have never locked herself out again. Like let her learn her own lesson. In the meantime my child is suffering by crying for an hour? I don't think so.
COUNSELOR: Yeah. But let's just go back to the gap and that concept of acknowledging and accepting. What I'm suggesting that you try to work on to help you - not to change the circumstance that you don't like, which is this doorman's personal policy, all right? I'm not suggesting that you change into liking his personal policy; you can remain not liking it, but you can do it in a way that doesn't get you so distressed. Like one of the ways of doing that is saying yeah, I can accept that he sees this differently. I don't like how he sees it, I think he's wrong, but he really doesn't see it differently.
PATIENT: Right.
COUNSELOR: Because he doesn't have to be different.
PATIENT: By accepting it I let him hurt other people then.
COUNSELOR: Even if you don't accept it, it doesn't mean -
PATIENT: If I don't accept it at least I know that I'm not accepting the fact that he's hurting other people.
COUNSELOR: What do you mean expecting? You mean liking?
PATIENT: I accept that he's hurting other people. That means that somehow I am also hurting other people.
COUNSELOR: Well, if you think he's hurting somebody else and if you think there's something that you can do to change that and you think it's worth your while, you think it's worth your while because there's a lot of injustices, and you think this is an injustice that you want to go to bat for, because there's a gazillion injustices that you could go to bat for, and everyone picks their injustices that they want to try to right, you know what I'm saying? 
So then you might decide that "I'm going to maybe not change him but I'm going to somehow work to change the circumstances." That's up to you. Everyone chooses their battles. The point is that he may never change his mind. He may always see things the way he sees them. Now you might somehow get it so that he doesn't have his way. I mean you might have some way of doing that, which you'll have to decide how far you want to go; that's a personal decision. But he may never change his mind. He may go along with some kind of - you know, if his boss orders him to let you in, he might say okay, I'll let her in, you know what I mean? But -
PATIENT: I know (inaudible at 59:04) thinking these things which the situation might call on them. 
COUNSELOR: Well, that's the issue, Christina. You're going to need to decide which issue do you want to involve yourself in so intimately and emotionally with and which ones do you want to just cut off and say "There, so be it. I can accept my way would be much better. It's preferable; it causes less suffering."
PATIENT: I think it would have to be another word. Accept; I don't like that. That's like that [Buddhist thing} (ph).
COUNSELOR: Right. Well -
PATIENT: Everything is okay. Okay, my mother tells my father off; well, that's okay. It's not okay.
COUNSELOR: Yeah. Acceptance somehow sometimes (inaudible at 59:37) it's fine.
PATIENT: Right, which I don't like that. I - 
COUNSELOR: It has the wrong connotation really.
PATIENT: Yeah.
COUNSELOR: So maybe do a little -
PATIENT: Not okay.
COUNSELOR: Let's end. But during the week maybe if you can, just try to think of another way of phrasing it for yourself that has more of a - what's another way of phrasing that that would be agreeable to you, if you know what I mean, that would have the right kind of meaning? The word "acceptance" has attached to it this kind of sense that it's okay, it's fine, it's no big deal, which doesn't resonate with you. So -
PATIENT: Well, I don't even - I mean I have to look up acceptance in the dictionary.
COUNSELOR: Yeah. Because I think it would be important to come up with a way of looking at that gap, which would again not be liking the gap or liking this other person's position, but acknowledging that it does exist and being able to just kind of be with it, just kind of - I don't want to use the word "acceptance" because that's not resonating with truth for you. But the concept of just allowing it to be without liking it, and try to see if you can come up with a word for that, okay? And I'll see you next week at 9:15?
PATIENT: Okay, good bye. 
END TRANSCRIPT
