<font size="4"><b>Chapter 2: Theories of Stress and Relationship to Health</b></font>

Conceptualizations of stress and
the stress response have varied in
form and context throughout the
centuries. Florence Nightingale (1860/1969)
wrote in <i>Notes on Nursing</i>,


In watching disease, both in private houses
and in public hospitals, the thing which
strikes the experienced observer most forcibly
is this, that the symptoms or the sufferings
generally considered to be inevitable
and incidental to the disease are very often
not symptoms of disease at all, but of something
quite different—of the want of fresh
air, or of light, or of warmth, or of quiet, or
of cleanliness, or of punctuality and care in
the administration of diet, of each or of all
of these. (p. 8)


Nightingale (1860/1969) believed that all
patients were experiencing some "stress" (as
it was later to be called) regardless of their illness.
Nightingale wrote to nursing, "If you
knew how unreasonably sick people suffer
from reasonable causes of distress, you would
take more pains about these things" (p. 104).
Nursing's challenge is to facilitate the "reparative
process" (p. 9).


More than 70 years later, Hans Selye
(1956), a young medical student at the University
of Prague, noted,
<blockquote>
<p>
Whether a man suffers from a loss of blood,
an infectious disease, or advanced cancer,
he loses his appetite, his muscle strength,
and his ambition to accomplish anything;
usually the patient also loses weight and
even his facial expression betrays that he is
ill. (p. 19)
</p>
</blockquote>
He labeled this phenomenon the "syndrome
of just being sick" and pursued the catalysts
and processes of the syndrome in the laboratory
and in his medical practice for more than
50 years. He described it as "stress-response
theory" and systematically examined its relationship
with health. Other researchers of the
stress-response phenomenon include Mason
(1971) and McEwen and Mendelson (1983).
This chapter examines, in depth, the development
of stress response theory and the wealth
of research, theory development, and clinical


Whether a man suffers from a loss of blood,
an infectious disease, or advanced cancer,
he loses his appetite, his muscle strength,
and his ambition to accomplish anything;
usually the patient also loses weight and
even his facial expression betrays that he is
ill. (p. 19)

[p. <i>28</i>]

- <b>STRESS RESPONSE THEORY</b>


Selye initially proposed a triadic model as the
basis for the stress response pattern. The elements
included adrenal cortex hypertrophy,
thymicolymphatic (e.g., the thymus, the
lymph nodes, and the spleen) atrophy, and
gastrointestinal ulcers. These three, he noted,
were closely interdependent; they seemed to
accompany most illnesses, and they were provoked
no matter what the stimulus or illness.
Selye could evoke the response in laboratory
rats with agents such as formalin, enzymes,
hormones, heat, and cold, and he observed it
in patients with such diverse health problems
as infections, cancer, and heart disease. He
noted that the syndrome probably represented
an expression of a generalized "call to arms"
of the body's defensive forces in reaction to
excessive demands or provocative stimuli.
Selye (1936) called this "nonspecific" response
to damage of any kind "stress." Later,
he used the term <i>stressor</i> to designate the
stimulus that provoked the stress response
(Selye, 1976b).


To derive a conceptualization of stress,
Selye (1976b) chose to delineate what it was
not. He wrote that stress is not


1. Simply nervous tension: It can occur in organisms
without nervous systems or in anesthetized
or unconscious patients.


2. An emergency discharge of hormones from
the adrenal medulla: Although catecholamines
are a part of the stress reaction, they
are not the only hormones activated, and they
play no role in generalized inflammatory diseases
or local stress reactions.


3. Everything that causes a secretion of the adrenal
cortex (i.e., corticoids): Adrenocorticotropic
hormone (ACTH) can stimulate the release
of corticoids without producing a stress
response.


4. Always the nonspecific result of damage:
Normal activities, such as tennis or a passionate
kiss, can produce a stress response
without conspicuous damage.


5. The same as a deviation from homeostasis
(Cannon, 1932), the body's steady state: Reactions
to loud noises, blinking of the eye, or
contracting a muscle may cause deviations
from the resting state without evidence of a
generalized stress reaction.


6. Anything that causes an alarm reaction: It is
the stressor that is the stimulus and not the
stress itself.


7. Identical with the alarm reaction: These reactions
are characterized by certain end-organ
changes caused by stress and, hence,
cannot be stress.


8. Nonspecific reaction: The pattern of the
stress response is specific, although its cause
and effects may vary.


9. Necessarily bad: The stress of success, challenge,
and creativity is positive, whereas that
of failure, anxiety, and infection can be negative.


10. To be avoided: Stress cannot be avoided. It is
ubiquitous; it is an essential ingredient of life
(Selye, 1976b). Selye viewed stress as the
common denominator of all adaptive reactions
in the body and complete freedom from
stress as death (Selye, 1974).


In his first publication on stress in <i>Nature</i>
in 1936, Selye defined stress as "the nonspecific
response of the body to any demand
made on it" (p. 32). Following criticisms for
being too vague, confusing, and ambiguous,
he offered the following operational definition:
Stress is "a state manifested by a specific
syndrome which consists of all the
nonspecifically induced changes within a biological
system" (Selye, 1976b, p. 64). He proposed
that such changes were measurable and
occurred at both the system and the local
level. The entire stress process at the system
level, including the threat and the individual's
reaction to it, he called the general adaptation
syndrome (GAS). The regional response (e.g.,
localized inflammation where microbes have
entered the body) he termed the local adaptation
syndrome (LAS). The GAS and LAS are
seen as closely coordinated, with the GAS

[p. <i>29</i>]

<b><i>General Adaptation Syndrome</i></b>


Selye (1956) noted that throughout history
aspects of stress and the stress phenomenon
floated aimlessly like loose logs on the
sea, periodically rising and falling in waves of
popularity and disgrace. He attempted to bind
together these loose logs of observable facts
with solid cables (workable theories) and secure
them with a resulting raft (GAS) by
mooring it to generally accepted classical
medicine in space and time. In space, the three
fixed points were the triad of adrenal,
thymicolymphatic, and intestinal changes. In
time, three distinct phases were identified as
the alarm reaction, stage of resistance, and
stage of exhaustion. Bringing together these
points of space and time, he reasoned, permitted
stress to be less ethereal and more amenable
to scientific inquiry.


Selye (1976b) labeled this process general
"because it was produced only by agents
which have a general effect upon large portions
of the body," adaptive "because it stimulated
defense and, thereby, helped in the acquisition
and maintenance of a state of
inurement," and syndrome "because its individual
manifestations are coordinated and,
even partly, dependent upon one another" (p.
38). This response to stimuli, he noted, included
(a) the direct effect of the stress on the
organism, (b) internal responses that stimulated
tissue defense to destroy the damaging
threat, and (c) internal responses that caused
tissue surrender by inhibiting unnecessary or
excessive defense. He noted, "Resistance and
adaptation depend on a proper balance of
these three factors that occur during the general
adaptation syndrome" (p. 56).


In addition to the three theoretical stages
of the GAS (alarm, resistance, and exhaustion),
Selye (1976b) identified level of function
and normal level of resistance as other
constructs in his model. In routine day-to-day
situations, he wrote, the organism functions
within a level of normal resistance or homeostasis.
Self-regulating and balancing devices,
as well as problem solving, facilitate maintenance
and adaptation to routine stressors and
stress. Responses are automatic or habitual
adaptations. When a stressor is encountered
that exceeds current adaptive resources, an
alarm is initiated. The alarm reaction involves
activation of the hypothalamus-hypophysis-adrenal
axis.


<i>Alarm Stage</i>


Selye (1976b) wrote that, even as a demand
is being appraised and possible specific
responses are being tested, certain cells in the
hypothalamus are being alerted to a state of
emergency. There is a generalized stimulation
of the autonomic nervous system during
this initial shock phase of the alarm reaction.
A nonspecific breakdown of resistance occurs;
sympathetic nervous system activity is
suppressed, accompanied by a decrease in
muscle tone, hypotension, and hypothermia.
Other manifestations include hemoconcentration,
hypocholoremia, hypoglycemia,
and acidemia. Generalized protein catabolism
occurs with altered capillary and cell membrane
permeability. The initial shock stage
can last from a few moments to as long as 24
hours depending on the intensity of the
stressor and the vulnerability of the individual.


A countershock phase follows if the
stressor persists or the individual is weak or
both. This phase is characteristic of the "fightor-flight"
reaction described by Cannon
(1932). It involves stimulation of the sympathoadrenal
medullary system with the release
of catecholamines (epinephrine and
norepinepine). Epinephrine causes dilation of
bronchi and pupils; increases in respirations,
blood pressure, heart rate, blood volume,
blood clotting, perspiration, alertness, blood
supply to vital organs, and energy; and causes
a decrease in peristalsis. Norepinephrine leads
to peripheral vasoconstriction, renin secretion,
and stimulation of aldosterone, which in

[p. <i>30</i>]

Usually secreted in lesser amounts are
proinflammatory cortocoids. These stimulate
proliferative ability and reactivity of connective
tissue to build strong barricades to resist
invasion, increase the platelet count, and
cause protein catabolism. The corticoid hormones
are known as "syntoxic" because they
facilitate coexistence with the stressor pathogen
either by reducing sensitivity to it or by
encapsulating it within a barricade of inflammatory
tissue. These are distinguishable from
the "catatoxic" hormones that enhance the destruction
of potential pathogens, mostly
through the induction of poison-metabolizing
enzymes in the liver. The effects of all these
substances can be modulated or conditioned
by other hormones (e.g., thyroxin), nervous
reactions, diet, heredity, health state, and tissue
memories of previous experiences with
stress.


Symptomatically, the individual may
complain of chest pain, palpitations, a racing
heart, headache, dysphagia, or all these. Other
manifestations include intestinal cramping,
dysmobility, dysnea, feelings of lightheadedness,
muscle tremors, joint pain, and bruxism.
If survival of the organism is at all possible, a
stage of resistance follows the alarm reaction.
It is called the "stage of resistance" because
opposition to a particular stressor has been established,
but resistance to most other stressors
tends to be less than normal (Selye,
1976b). Manifestations of the second stage
are the antithesis of the alarm reaction stage.
In the former, for example, the adrenal cortex
discharges its hormone-containing secretions
into the bloodstream; consequently, the stores
of the gland are depleted. In the stage of resistance,
the cortex accumulates an abundant reserve
of secretory granules.


<i>Resistance Stage</i>


The resistance stage is evidenced by a
dramatic reduction in the alarm reaction as
full resistance to the stressor is being established.
Developmental (homotrophic) adaptation
occurs in the tissues that must intensify
their characteristic functional activity for the
body to transcend the stressor. There is an attempt
to maintain a higher level of functioning
in the presence of the stressor as enlargement
and multiplication of preexisting cell
elements occur without qualitative change.
Heterotrophic adaptation, involving tissue readjustment
and transformation to perform
diverse functions, also occurs at this time. The
stage of resistance may be viewed as an
attempt at survival through a carefully balanced
use of the body's syntoxic and catatoxic
defense mechanisms to facilitate coexistence
of the organism and the stressor (Selye,
1976a).


<i>Exhaustion Stage</i>


If the organism is not able to return to a
normal level of resistance (i.e., prealarm reaction
homeostasis) or the initial insult is too
overwhelming, a third stage, the stage of exhaustion,
ensues. At this time, endocrine activity
is heightened; high circulating levels of
cortisol begin to have pronounced negative effects
on the circulatory, digestive, immune,
and other systems. The symptoms are strikingly
similar to those of the initial alarm reaction,
but such a high level of resistance cannot
be maintained indefinitely. Human resources
become depleted, and permanent damage to
the system through "wear and tear" or death
or both is likely to occur. In the usual course
of events, the organism would experience all

[p. <i>31</i>]

<i>GAS Assumptions</i>


The following assumptions are foundational
to the general adaptation syndrome theory:
(a) Any demand, positive or negative, can
provoke the stress response; (b) the stress response
is characterized by the same chain of
events and pattern of physiological correlates
regardless of the stressor or stimulus that provoked
it; (c) what occurs systematically in the
GAS is evident to a much lesser degree in the
LAS; (d) the occurrence of the LAS or GAS
or both defines the occurrence of stress; (e)
the theory deemphasizes differences among
stimuli and organisms; and (f) the theory presumes
adaptive resources are genetically determined
and finite. According to Selye
(1976a), every individual is endowed with a
genetically predetermined quantity and quality
of adaptative energy that may be spent
with conservative discretion (producing a longer
life) or with a reckless abandon (a shorter
but more colorful existence).


Many criticisms of Selye's conceptualization
of stress and the GAS have been raised
by Mason (1971) and others. Mason identified
the following: (a) Stress has too many ambiguous
meanings (he thought that Selye should
have coined a new word rather than selected
one already in use); (b) stress is an abstraction
—it has no real independent existence; (c)
stress has been applied to both the agent and
the consequence; (d) the stress response cannot
be both specific and nonspecific; (e) there
have been few attempts to arrive at a consensus
definition and operationalization for the
term stress; and (f) the stress definition and
the GAS do not take into consideration cognition,
perception, and interpretation of the
stimulus.


Some of these concerns were addressed
by Selye (1976c) in his article, "Forty Years of
Stress Research: Principal Remaining Problems
and Misconceptions." He argued that
stress is the nonspecific response of the body
to any demand, that the stressor is the agent
that produces it, and that the GAS is the chronological
development of the response to
stressors when their action is prolonged. Selye
wrote that the terms nonspecificity and specificity
could be applied to both the eliciting
agent and the response. By nonspecific is
meant the generalized effects or responses
that are characteristic of many stimuli or
agents—that is, the manifestations of the
alarm reaction with secretion of ACTH, the
catecholamines, thymicolymphatic involution,
and so on. These, he argued, are elicited
by innumerable agents that make intense and
systemic demands on the organism. Perception
of a green light, however, is a highly specific
response. It can occur only when given
light wavelengths reach the retina. Selye
noted that the stress response was affected by
conditioning factors, such as age, genetic predisposition,
sex, and exogenous treatments,
and that these factors can cause the same stimulus
to act differently in different individuals
and to act differently in the same individual at
different times.


Although "perception" and "cognition"
were not identified in Selye's early work, he
attempted to distinguish between agreeable
(healthy) and disagreeable (pathogenic) stress
as qualitatively different phenomenon. The
first he called eustress and the latter, distress.
He wrote that the body undergoes virtually the
same nonspecific response during eustress
and distress; in the former, however, there is
much less damage. This notion of "appraisal"
was addressed further by Selye's addition of
perception, interpretation, and assessment to
his 1985 model (Tache &amp; Selye, 1985). According
to Selye, perception and interpretation
had not been developed because they
were outside the realm of expertise of physiologists
(such as himself) who had proposed the
original theory (Tache &amp; Selye, 1985).


<b><i>Coping With Stress</i></b>


Although not specified in his earlier
works, Selye introduces the notion of coping

[p. <i>32</i>]

Tache and Selye (1985) summarized the
essential points of Selye's model of stress as
follows:


1. All life events cause some stress.


2. Stress is not bad per se, but excessive or unnecessary
stress should be avoided whenever
possible.


3. The stressor is the stimulus eliciting a need
for adaptation; stress is the response.


4. The nonspecific aspects of the body's reaction
to an agent may not be as obvious as the
specific effects. Sometimes, only disease or
dysfunction will make an individual realize
that he or she is under stress.


5. Stress should be monitored through a battery
of parameters.


6. Stress should not be equated with only
ACTH, corticoid, or catecholamine secretions.
These seem to manifest the main pathways
of nonspecific adaptation; they are but
a few of the elements of a very complex
scheme, however.


7. Removal of the stressor eliminates stress.


Selye noted that stress is the price that organisms
pay to survive as animals, and humans
pay that same price to accomplish what they
consider to be great things.


<b><i>Stress, Disease, and Illness</i></b>


According to Selye (Tache &amp; Selye,
1985), the nervous and hormonal responses to
stressors, as discussed previously, aid survival.
He believed the demand-induced neuro-hormonal
changes are carefully balanced to
enhance the organism's capacity to meet challenges
and, thus, are adaptive. If, however,
there is an excess of defensive or submissive
bodily reactions, then diseases of adaptation
can occur. Conditions in which such maladaption
is a factor include high blood pressure,
diseases of the heart and blood vessels, diseases
of the kidney, eclampsia, rheumatic and
rheumatoid arthritis, inflammatory diseases of
the skin and eyes, infections, allergies and hypersensitivity
diseases, nervous and mental
diseases, sexual dysfunctions, digestive diseases,
metabolic diseases, cancer, and diseases
of a compromised immune system.
Simonton, Simonton, and Creighton (1978)
and Goodkin, Antoni, and Blaney (1986) proposed
a strong relationship between stress and
cancer. Matthews and Glass (1981) suggested
a similar relationship between stress and heart
disease.


Bryla (1996), a nurse researcher, reviewed
the literature that addressed the relationship
between stress and the development
of breast cancer and the mediator effects of
the immune system. She used published articles,
book chapters, books, and workbooks
from nursing and the medical literature as
sources. Stress was defined as a somatic reaction
to an environmental event, an adverse situation,
mental frustration, or anxiety (Allen,
1983) and as the state manifested by a specific
syndrome that consisted of all the nonspecifically
induced changes within a biological
system; a response that, although nonspecifically
produced, has a very specific
form (Selye, 1956).


Bryla (1996) noted that researchers
tended to characterize women who developed
breast cancer or who experienced progression
of the disease or both as having certain personality
traits and being overresponsive to
emotional stress. These traits include emotional
suppression, depression, conflict avoidance,
repressive coping style, uncertainty, extroversion,
sexual inhibitions, inability to
manage anger (so-called "anger in"), masochism,
aggressiveness, and hostility (masked
with a facade of pleasantness) (Bahnson,
1981; Cooper, Cooper, &amp; Faragher, 1989;
Fox, 1983; Grassi &amp; Cappellari, 1988).


Other studies have noted the connection
between stress and breast cancer as a "stress-related"

[p. <i>33</i>]

Bryla (1996) concluded that there was a
possibility of a "breast cancer personality";
she noted, however, that additional prospective
studies are needed to clearly establish this
relationship. To date, most studies have been
correlational and retrospective in nature, involving
women who have already been diagnosed
with cancer. Not considered was the potential
potent influence of the cancer
diagnosis. Other methodological concerns included
diverse "operationalization" of the
stress concept. For the most part, stress has
been measured as an emotion, such as anxiety,
hostility, depression, or anger, or as physiological
data. Linkages between manifest emotions
and, for example, changes in heart rate
and experienced stress have, at best, been inferred.
Means to establish more direct links
and measurements are necessary. Bryla points
out the problem of isolating an individual's
perception of stress from the extraneous factors
that often coexist with it (e.g., fear and
depression).


Bleiker and van der Ploeg (1999) reviewed
27 studies of the psychosocial factors
in the etiology of breast cancer. Seven of the
studies were retrospective, 12 were quasi-prospective,
and 8 were prospective. The reviewers
failed to find conclusive results and noted
that there was a lack of specific knowledge on
the relationship between breast cancer development
and psychosocial factors, such as
stressful life events, coping styles, depression,
and the ability to express emotions. They concluded
that at least three hypotheses have
been described to explain a possible relationship
between psychosocial variables and cancer
development. The first proposes a biological
pathway in which stress through the central
nervous system and the endocrine system
compromises the immune system leading to
cancer development. The second assumes that
psychological variables are related to high-risk
lifestyle behaviors—for example, personality
characteristics lead to cigarette smoking,
which in turn leads to increased risk for cancer.
A third hypothesis suggests that an unknown
factor (possibly hormonal or genetic)
may be responsible for the increased risk for
cancer and for the increased chance of having
a given personality trait. The authors concluded
that much prospective research is
needed to explicitly determine the personality-cancer
relationship.


Leidy (1989) presented the physiological
processes of stress as a useful framework for
nursing to understand the dynamics of chronic
illness, its evolution, and trajectory. She suggested
that the manifestations of chronic
health problems such as chronic obstructive
lung disease can be interpreted as expressions
of chronic stress that evolve as a consequence
of environmental stressors, such as cigarette
smoke or prolonged exposure to air pollutants,
and individual pulmonary system vulnerability.
She also noted the association between
stress and nutritional imbalances,
obesity, and diabetes mellitus.


Carrieri-Kohlman, Lindsey, and West
(1993), in <i>Pathophysiological Phenomena in
Nursing</i>, depict pathological consequences
associated with the stress response and identify
many conditions antecedent to it. These
physiological manifestations include lipolysis,
proteolysis, gluconeogenesis, and ureagenesis.
Antecedent conditions include multiple
traumatic insult, ischemia, hypoxia, burns,
surgery, sepsis, and loss of a loved one and
other catastrophic sociopsychological losses.
Fauci et al. (1998), in <i>Harrison's Principles of
Internal Medicine</i>, describe clinical manifestations
of many stress-related disorders, including
depression, ulcers, and hypertension.
The proposed relationship between stress and
health and illness is explicated further in this
book.

[p. <i>34</i>]

<b><i>Other Stress Response Theorists</i></b>


Although Selye was the pioneer of stress
response theory, other early contributors in
the field include Mason (1971) and McEwen
and Mendelson (1983). Mason believed that
coping processes were constantly shaping the
endocrine response to stressors and that this
response varied with the particular properties
of the stimuli. He disagreed with Selye that
there was a nonspecific response to stimuli.
Mason coined the term "psychoendocrinology,"
thus attributing to mental processes
some of the variance in the endocrine response
to stressful stimuli.


Like Selye, McEwen and Mendelson
(1983) believed that a stressor was an event
that challenged homeostasis, with disease the
consequence of failure of the normal
adapatative system. These scientists proposed
that psychological stress (such as fear and
anxiety) involved perceived threats to homeostasis
and that these were likely to evoke psychosomatic
reactions, such as gastric ulcers
and immunosuppression. The focus of their
work was on the neuroendocrine response of
the brain to stressors and the development of
depressive symptoms. They found glucocorticoids
to be one of the body's natural antidepressants.
These researchers believed the
important first mediator of the GAS was psychological.
This is discussed in more detail in
subsequent chapters.


<i><b>Stress Response Empirical Adequacy</b></i>


During the past 60 to 70 years, thousands
of studies have sought to explicate Selye's
theory and the stress response. Selye (1979)
wrote "30 books and about 15,000 technical
articles on the subject" (p. xi) and produced
<i>Selye's Guide to Stress Research</i> (1980) to
present the then current state of the knowledge
of the stress concept. Included in Volume
1 are a preface and epilogue by Selye and the
seminal works of Dohrenwend and Dohrenwend
on life events theory, Lazarus's psychological
stress and adaptation model, and
Frankenhaeuser's psychoneuroendocrine approaches
to the study of stressful person-environment
transactions. Studies of stress as
a response have been conducted in such diverse
fields as business, law, pharmacy, psychology,
anthropology, education, sociology,
physiology, and philosophy.


A major portion of the stress research has
been conducted in the sciences of medicine
and nursing because of the hypothesized relationships
between stress and disease and
stress and illness. A MedLine search of the literature
(since 1966), using the general key
word "stress," generated more than 95,000 citations.
With "Selye" as the key word, 212 references
resulted; when the focus-phase "general
adaptation syndrome" was added, 100
studies were cited. Sampled literature indicates
that stress as a response has been examined
in such diverse situations as adults experiencing
surgery (Lanuza, 1995), heart disease
(Brown, 1976), panic (Lopez-Ibor, 1987), fatigue
(Eidelman, 1980), cancer (Vitaliano et
al., 1998), biofeedback (Zolten, 1989), antibody
production (Herbert &amp; Cohen, 1993),
and chronic hypertension (Calhoun, 1992).


In the Cumulative Index for Nursing and
Allied Health Literature (CINAHL) (dating
from 1982), there were more than 11,000 references
for the key word stress; there are 143
references for Selye and 58 for the general adaptation
syndrome. A hand search produced
several other important works from earlier
years. In general, stress response nursing
knowledge has been generated in theory development,
nursing practice, and empirical research.
Each of these content areas will be reviewed
in the following sections.


- <b>STRESS RESPONSE NURSING
KNOWLEDGE</b>


<i><b>Theory Development</b></i>


Conceptualization of stress as a response
has contributed to the development of many

[p. <i>35</i>]

<i><b>Roy's Adaptation Model</b></i>


One of the earliest nursing theories was
developed by Sister Callista Roy while still a
graduate student. RAM has some of the characteristics
of systems theory and some of the
characteristics of stress and interaction theories.
Roy borrowed and expanded on theories
from others, including Seyle (1936), Helson
(1964), and Maslow (1970). She has continued
to expand her model from its inception to
the present. RAM focuses on the individual
(person) as a biopsychosocial adaptive system
and describes nursing as a humanistic discipline
that "places emphasis on the person's
own coping abilities to achieve health" (Roy,
1984, p. 32).


This model relies heavily on stress theory,
the notion of adaptation, and the ability of
nursing to facilitate client adaptation to stress.
From stress theory, Roy selected the concepts
of stressor, stress, and adaptation for her
model. She defines stress as "a constantly
changing point, made up of focal, contextual,
and residual stimuli, which represent the person's
own standard of the range of stimuli to
which one can respond with ordinary adaptive
responses" (Roy, 1984, pp. 27-28). Focal
stimuli are the internal and external demands
immediately confronting the organism (e.g., a
need for cancer surgery). Contextual stimuli
are all other internal and external factors in the
given situation (e.g., fear of dying). Residual
stimuli are factors that may be affecting current
emotions and behaviors but whose effects
are not clearly validated (e.g., having a mother
who died from cancer).


Stress, for Roy (1984), represents the person's
adaptive level. She wrote, "The human
system has the capacity to adjust effectively to
changes in the environment and, in turn, to
affect the environment" (p. 22). She defined
adaptation as "that which promotes the integrity
of the person in terms of survival, growth,
reproduction, and mastery" (p. 51).


A person's adaptation level is determined
by the combined effect of the three classes of
stimuli (input). Health results when adaptation
reaches the optimal level of the individual's
potential to meet his or her physical,
psychosocial, and self-actualization needs.
The individual uses both innate and acquired
biological, psychological, or social adaptive
mechanisms or all three.


Roy's model postulates that there is an interchange
between the adaptive system (individual)
and various stimuli (input) from the
environment and from the adaptive system.
Responses to stimuli are processed through
subsystems that include two control mechanisms
(coping processes) and four adaptive
modes. One control mechanism is the regulator
subsystem. It responds automatically via
neural, chemical, and endocrine processes.
Stimuli from the internal and external environment
(through the senses) act as inputs to
the nervous, circulatory, and endocrine systems
of the body. Automatic, unconscious
(coping) responses are produced.


The second subsystem, the cognator, receives
input from external and internal stimuli
that involve psychological responses concerned
with the process of perception (the link
between the regulator and cognator), learning,
judgment, and emotion. The four modes of the
second subsystem are (a) physiological function
(biological integrity derived from basic
needs), (b) self-concept (interaction with others
and the psychic integrity regarding perception
of self), (c) role function (social integrity
and the performance of duties based on positions
within society), and (d) interdependence
(seeking of help, affection, and attention
along with relationships with significant others
and support systems).


Adaptation, Roy (1984) noted, may occur
predominantly in one mode or simultaneously
in several. The output of the adaptive system
is either adaptation or maladaptive (ineffective)
responses. Ineffective responses (coping)
result in illness. Adaptive coping results in

[p. <i>36</i>]

<i>Roy's Adaptation Model
Empirical Adequacy</i>


Roy's Adaptation Model has served to
guide the development of nursing curriculum,
the sophistication of nursing practice, and
nursing research. A search of CINAHL revealed
324 references to Roy's Adaptation
Model. Since its inception, the model has
been supported through research in practice
and education (Bower &amp; Baker, 1976; Jones,
1978; Mitchell &amp; Pilkington, 1990; Rambo,
1983; Ryan, 1996). Fawcett and Tulman
(1990) built a program of research around the
RAM, and many midrange theories have been
derived from the model (Calvert, 1989; Ryan,
1996). Even Roy has authored seven books
(Andrew &amp; Roy, 1986; Roy, 1984; Roy &amp; Andrews,
1991), 21 articles, and numerous book
chapters. Summary reviews of Roy's work
can be found in Alligood and Marriner-Tomey
(1997) and Marriner-Tomey (1994).


<i>Critical Analysis of RAM Theory</i>


Evaluation of RAM in terms of its level
of theory development (using criteria proposed
by Walker, 1994, and Walker &amp; Avant,
1988) has shown it to be appropriately meaningful
for nursing, logically adequate with
well-defined concepts, and useful for guiding
nursing practice, education, and research. It
has been shown to be generalizable across age
groups, health conditions, and cultures (Jackson,
1990; White, Richter, &amp; Fry, 1992).
RAM is fairly complex with numerous components
and proposed relationships, thus
reducing its parsimony. The model has generated
many hypotheses that have been subjected
to empirical testing through research
(Aaronson &amp; Seaman, 1989; Innes, 1992;
Inouye, Albert, Mohs, Sun, &amp; Berkman,
1993).


Other theories for nursing that have incorporated
stress response include Levine's
(1973) four conservation principles, Betty
Neuman's (1982) systems model, and King's
(1971, 1981) theory of goal attainment. These
models are critically examined in the text
<i>Nursing Theorists and Their Work</i> (Marriner-Tomey,
1994), and their utility and application
are described in <i>Nursing Theory: Utilization
&amp; Application</i> (Alligood &amp; Marriner, 1997).


- <b>STRESS RESPONSE AND
MIDRANGE THEORY
DEVELOPMENT</b>


Many midrange theories for nursing have
been derived from stress response theory.
Some of the earliest conceptualizations were
proposed by Sutterley (1979) and Frain and
Valiga (1979).


<b><i>Stress Level Behavior Model</i></b>


Sutterley (1979) defined stress as a "dynamic
state within the individual that results
from any demand to adapt or to change ... a
perceived threat... a challenge to one's ability
to cope or perform [and]... unmet needs"
(p. 177). She noted that manifestations of
stress were indications of the psycho-physiological
stress response as described by
Selye. Sutterley proposed a model of stress
level "behaviors" that paralleled Travis's
seven stages of disease (Pelletier, 1977). She
wrote that the stress response was not an "all-or-nothing"
reaction but one that was a matter
of degree; stress levels ranged from ataraxy to
panic.


Sources of stress that Sutterley (1979)
identified were biophysical-chemical (e.g.,

[p. <i>37</i>]

Sutterley (1979) noted that each of the
self-regulation modalities fit well within
Nightingale's (1890/1969) concept of nursing's
goal to put the body in the best condition
for nature to act on it. She wrote, however,
that modern nursing needs to reach beyond
Nightingale's model to promote mind-body-spirit
integration to tap self-healing potentials.


<b><i>Multilevel Stress Model</i></b>


Frain and Valiga (1979) proposed a multilevel
model and indicated that it reflected
Selye's GAS stages. They, like Sutterley
(1979), addressed differences in the severity
of the stress response. They noted that Level I
includes the day-to-day reactions that most
people manifest as they experience "routine"
stress. Responses are automatic or habitual or
both and require a minimum of energy expenditure
for adaptation. Although the alarm-resistance
process is active, it is practically
imperceptible. An example is the daily experience
of an early morning commute to work in
heavy traffic.


At Level II, mild stress can occur as less
routine events are experienced (such as a
job interview or a formal social evening). A
heightened alarm reaction with increased
alertness, cold and clammy hands, diaphoresis,
and increased cardiac output, heart rate,
and blood pressure may be evident.


At Level III, moderate stress occurs when
the person encounters a persistently stressful
event that the use of previous adaptative behaviors
fail to resolve. The individual senses
danger, may express concern about lack of
control, and may hang precariously between
successful and unsuccessful resolution of the
encounter. Examples are when an individual
is facing surgery, unemployment, and marital
difficulties. Frain and Valiga (1979) noted that
"in Selye's terms there is a struggle between
the resistance and exhaustion stages of the
GAS" (p. 62).


At this level, manifestation of the alarm-resistance
phenomenon is more obvious, and
measurable changes occur. There is an increase
in the levels of catecholamines and
corticosteroids. Signs and symptoms include
tachycardia, palpitations, tremors, weakness,
cool and pale skin, and elevated blood pressure.
Frain and Valiga termed this reaction the
"intraorganismic" response to a stressor. No
follow-up research was found for either of
these early models.


<i><b>Adaptive Potential Assessment Model</b></i>


This midrange model for nursing was
proposed by Erickson and Swain (1982).
These theorists divided stress response into
three states: arousal, equilibrium, and impoverishment.
Each of these states represents a
different potential for the mobilization of self-care
resources—resources that are biophysical
and psychosocial. During arousal, individuals
show signs and symptoms similar to
those found in Selye's alarm and resistance
stages. In the equilibrium state, signs and
symptoms of adaptation are observable (i.e.,
normal blood pressure, heart rate, etc.). With
impoverishment comes a depletion of available
resources and manifestations similar to
those found in Selye's exhaustion stage. The
authors describe a dynamism among these
three states.


Erickson and Swain note that the Adaptive
Potential Assessment Model (APAM) differs
from Selye's conceptualization because
coping resources are considered, not just
stressors. Second, an interactive relationship
is shown among the states of APAM rather
than a unidirectional process, as in the GAS.
Last, the developers suggest that APAM represents
a holistic perspective that is more consistent
with nursing, whereas Selye's model

[p. <i>38</i>]

<i>Critical Analysis of APAM</i>


Evaluation of APAM in terms of its level
of theory development (using criteria proposed
by Walker &amp; Avant, 1988) has shown it
to be appropriately meaningful for nursing
and logically adequate with well-defined concepts.
It has been shown to be useful to guide
dissertation research (Barnfather, 1988) and
to direct nursing practice (Campbell, Finch,
Allport, Erickson, &amp; Swain, 1985; Kinney &amp;
Erickson, 1990).


Generalizability across age groups,
health conditions, and culture is limited.
APAM is parsimonious, having few well-defined
concepts. The model has generated hypotheses
that have been subjected to empirical
testing through research; that is, adherence in
hypertensives (Steckel &amp; Swain, 1977; Swain
&amp; Steckel, 1981), active patient orientation
(Schulman &amp; Swain, 1982), and experienced
perinatal loss (Krazewski, 1994). Empirical
testing of the proposed relationships in
APAM, however, has been limited to that the
developers of the model.


<i><b>Psychophysiological Stress Model</b></i>


Another midrange theory model was created
by Toth (1984) as a result of her dissertation
and used to direct her program of
research. Her Psychophysiological Stress
Model (PSM) was designed to explain the interplay
of multiple stressors on affective and
physiologic behavior that increase the likelihood
of relapse in acute myocardial infarction
(AMI) patients. This model was based on the
work of Selye (1956, 1980) and the physiologic
consequences of stress (Guyton, 1986).
Stress is theoretically defined as "a generalized
stimulation of the autonomic nervous
system that alerts a person to the presence of
stressors arising from an actual or perceived
threat" (Toth, 1993, p. 36). The response of
AMI patients to psychophysiologic stressors
translates into the specific consequences analogous
to Selye's stage of alarm.


Toth proposes that her model explains
both the disease process that can result in an
AMI and the negative consequences of multiple
stressors in the recovering AMI patient.
Key concepts in the model include stressors
(physiological, psychological, environmental,
and sociocultural), psychophysiological
stress, and conditioning effects. Toth
noted that with stressors there are increases in
heart rate, blood pressure, and myocardial oxygen
consumption that, in turn, leads to an increase
in myocardial ischemia and the possibility
of fatal dysrhythmias or reinfarction.
Therefore, assessing stress level at hospital
discharge for AMI patients is important to determine
who may be at risk for a subsequent
AMI. It is also essential for practitioners planning
discharge patient care.


<i>PSM Instrument Development</i>


PSM was used by Toth (1988) to guide
the development of a Stress of Discharge Assessment
Tool (SDAT). SDAT is a 60-item,
norm-referenced, self-report measure that is
completed by AMI patients at the time of their
hospital discharge. The first 46 items assess
stressors common to most AMI patients; 14
additional items measure the effects of stressors
that may be specific to some AMI patients
(e.g., those that relate to employment).


Scoring is on a 5-point, Likert-type scale
that assesses the degree of consensus with the
items from "strongly agree" to "strongly disagree."
Summative scores range from 60 to
300 points; the higher the score, the higher the
experienced stress. Scale items were determined
through a literature search and reviewed
by an eight-member panel of expert
clinicians for content validity. Construct validity
was examined with a sample of 104
AMI patients who completed the SDAT 48
hours prior to hospital discharge. Scores
ranged from 86 to 168; 72% were within one
standard deviation of the mean. Internal consistency,
using a Cronbach's alpha coefficient,
was .85. Toth proposed that such assessment

[p. <i>39</i>]

Six hypotheses, based on the PSM, were
generated by Toth (1988). Each examined the
value of factors measured by the SDAT to predict
magnitude of stress following AMI prior
to discharge in 104 adults. Variables included
persistent symptoms, SES, age, previous AMI
history, marital status, and severity of AMI.
Only severity of AMI was found to be significantly
related to the stress response at hospital
discharge. Toth (1987) found that older and
younger AMI patients generally experienced
similar stressors; younger patients, however,
were less worried about having another AMI
and had felt less sick during their hospitalization.
Both age groups believed their partners
worried about them too much and this was a
source of stress.


In a subsequent study, Toth (1993) found
that women did not differ from men at hospital
discharge in the magnitude of stress experienced,
their most stressful concerns, the severity
of AMI, or their age. Women, however,
had and reported more persistent cardiac
symptoms than men.


Findings from these studies serve to
guide the nurse clinician in ensuring that AMI
clients receive appropriate referrals for stress
management or cardiac rehabilitation or both
on discharge. Toth suggested that the SDAT
be tested with other AMI samples and that
SDAT scores be used as a dependent variable
in assessing the effectiveness of different
types of stress reduction and cardiac rehabilitation
programs.


<i>Critical Analysis of PSM</i>


PSM, in terms of it's level of theory development
using criteria proposed by Walker
and Avant (1988), has been shown to be appropriately
meaningful in identifying persons
in need of nursing care. It is useful to guide
nursing practice in the planning of discharge
care for AMI patients and their families. The
model has logical adequacy in that all its key
concepts are defined or specified by Toth. The
theory has generated testable hypotheses and
an instrument (SDAT) to operationalize concepts
in the model. The PSM has shown
generalizability across age groups and race
(Toth, 1987) and gender (Toth, 1993). The
PSM is fairly complex, with numerous components
and proposed relationships when the
physiological elements are explicated, thus reducing
its parsimony. Empirical adequacy is
limited; to date, much of the research has been
conducted by the designer of the model.


- <b>STRESS RESPONSE AND
CLINICAL PRACTICE MODELS</b>


Many clinical practice models have evolved
from the work of Selye and from response
theory. Some of these are described briefly in
the following sections.


<i><b>An Adaptation Model
for Nursing Practice</b></i>


This model was designed by Jones
(1978). She proposed that the interaction
among unmet basic needs (as identified by
Maslow, 1970), adaptability (as described by
Selye, 1976b), and location on a illness-wellness
scale (Dunn, 1959) constituted relative
health. She conceptualized each of these
factors on a continuum from below average to
a high level. Envisioned as a linear model, a
line can be plotted from any point on the basic
needs continuum to its opposite apex and intersect
with another line similarly plotted on
the adaptability continuum. Thus, a person's
position on the illness-wellness continuum is
determined by finding where the basic needs
and adaptability lines intersect and drawing a
vertical line from that point down to the illness-wellness
continuum. As a person's position
on either their basic needs or adaptability
lines changes, so does their position on the illness-wellness
continuum. For example, an
older adult with hypertension who is low on
adaptability but whose basic needs for
normotension are being largely met may be
placed at the point of average health. If the
need to manage the hypertension increases,

[p. <i>40</i>]

Kidder (1989) offered a conceptual
framework that examines five factors (stress,
coping, development, social support, and
immunocompetence) from a biopsychosocial
perspective to gain a clearer understanding of
why some children in intensive care recover
faster than others. Her definition of physiological
stress was derived from the work of
Selye (1950). She concluded that a child's recovery
from a critical illness is not merely a
matter of providing the correct medical treatment
at the appropriate time. Knowledge and
analysis of the stressors in the child's environment,
the child's ability to cope, developmental
age, availability of social supports, and
competence of the child's immune system are
needed by nursing for understanding, planning,
and implementing effective care.


- <b>STRESS RESPONSE
MEASUREMENT</b>


Many physiological measures have been used
by nursing in stress response research.
Typically, measures are vital signs (Guzzeta
&amp; Forsyth, 1979), heart rate (Brown, 1976),
urinary Na+/K+ ratios and 17-ketosteroids
(Farr, Keene, Sampson, &amp; Michael, 1984),
and plasma Cortisol (Page &amp; Ben-Eliyahu,
1997). Chapter 4 presents detailed descriptions
of the various stress measures, including
their source, research, reliability, validity,
sensitivity, and specificity.


- <b>STRESS RESPONSE AND
NURSING INTERVENTION
RESEARCH</b>


In this section, a sampling of the nursing research
studies guided by stress response theory
during the past 30 years are presented,
followed by a summary of three reviews of
stress response studies (Doswell, 1988;
Lindsey, 1983; Werner, 1993). Some of the
studies appear in more than one of the
sources.


One of the earliest studies, conducted by
Cleland (1965), examined the effects of stress
on the performance of staff nurses. She found
that those who scored highest on need for social
approval reported a sharp decline in performance
when situational stressors were increased.
Nurses with low need for social
approval increased their performance when
situational stressors were increased.


In a descriptive study, Garbin (1979)
asked 76 nurses to list significant stressors in
their work environment. The ones identified
as most stressful were "heavy workload, making
total patient care impossible" and "making
a mistake." The author created a "stress:
individual/environment interaction model" as
an outcome of her research. Topf (1994) and
von Onciul (1996) also evaluated environmental
stressors using a stress response perspective.
Topf proposed several concepts to
supplement stress theory with the goal of
better understanding and management of environmental
stressors. These constructs were
"enhancement of the person-environmental
compatibility," "societal and technological development,"
and "intrinsic sensitivity to ambient
stressors."


In another area, many studies have examined
therapeutic touch (TT) as an intervention
to reduce the stress response. Krieger (1975)
described TT as the laying on of hands to direct
excess body energies from the person in
the role of healer to another for the purpose of
helping or healing that individual. Krieger,
Peper, and Encoli (1979) used a pretest-posttest
design to monitor the physiological
relaxation effects of TT in adult patients for
two consecutive days. The electroencephalogram,
electromyographic, galvanic skin response,
temperature, and heart rate indicators
showed significantly lower reactivity levels
with a greater abundance of large-amplitude
alpha activity in both eyes-open and eyes-closed
states. Participants also reported higher
positive feelings during and after TT.


Wishing to determine if TT had an effect
on emotions, Heldt (1981) examined the effects

[p. <i>41</i>]

Lafreniere et al. (1999) experimentally
evaluated the effects of TT on biochemical indicators
and moods of 41 healthy women.
Pretest and posttest urine samples were collected
for nitric oxide levels, and mood inventories
were assessed during three consecutive
monthly sessions. Findings revealed that
mood disturbance in the experimental group
significantly decreased during the course of
the three sessions compared to the mood disturbance
of women in the control group. In
addition, there was a significantly lower nitric
oxide leveling in the TT group. The authors
concluded that TT significantly reduced psychological
and physiological distress in these
women, and that it may have an impact on reducing
symptom distress in breast cancer patients
undergoing chemotherapy.


Two other authors proposed the use of
stress response theory in relation to managing
patients' experiencing endoscopy (Murphy,
1993) and to understanding patient stress in
the intensive care unit setting (Sharp, 1996).
In addition, Murphy suggested nursing interventions,
such as patient teaching, relaxation
techniques, and communication skills, that
could promote positive health outcomes for
the patients experiencing endoscopy; none of
these was tested.


Many nursing research studies have examined
biochemical measures of the stress response
following threatening health care procedures.
Fair et al. (1984) found altered
circadian excretion of urinary catecholamines
in postoperative surgical patients. Lanuza and
Marotta (1987) reported cortisol elevations in
cardiac pacemaker implant patients, and
Lanuza (1995) found elevated cortisol levels
in both coronary artery bypass graft patients
and patients undergoing implantation of an
automatic cardioverter or defibrillator device.


- <b>STRESS RESPONSE AND
NURSING RESEARCH REVIEWS</b>


Three reviews of stress response as a perspective
for nursing research were examined.
Lindsey (1983) reviewed nursing research
studies of physiological phenomena between
1970 and 1980. She reported 141 studies divided
into three categories: (a) phenomena investigated
were primarily individual-related
(<i>n</i> = 66), (b) phenomena studied were primarily
related to the environment (<i>n</i> = 25), and
(c) studies focused on some aspect of nursing
therapeutics (<i>n</i> = 50).


Following a detailed examination of all
the studies, Lindsey concluded that a wide variety
of physiological phenomena have been
studied with relatively small sample sizes.
Most of the studies were either preliminary in
nature or pilot studies, most were single investigations
without follow-up, few were replications
or extensions, and most were imprecise
or lacking in theoretical underpinnings.


Doswell (1988) focused her review on
nursing research studies conducted between
1977 and 1987 that had examined physiological
responses to stress. She found 19 studies,
which she divided into four subject categories:
life events, vocal stress, hospitalization
and environmental stressors, and miscellaneous

[p. <i>42</i>]

A third review was conducted by Werner
(1993). She examined the nursing research literature
for studies on stressors and health outcomes
between 1980 and 1990; she found
seven studies that had a stress response theoretical
orientation. Werner noted that a diminishing
number of nursing researchers were using
Selye's perspective of physiological stress
as a response. She reasoned that this may be
the consequence of nursing taking a much
broader view of the human condition in response
to stress. It also may be related to the
increasing interest in Lazarus's transactional
model, with its heavy emphasis on cognition
and appraisal. Lyon and Werner (1987) noted
that response models of stress are incompatible
with nursing's view of the wholistic human
experience. Focusing on physiological
phenomena without consideration of the person's
perspective, psyche, and emotions was
seen as only treating one half of the person.


- <b>CONCLUSION</b>


There is a very long history of stress response
theory and its evolution in psychology, medicine,
and nursing. It has led to numerous
models, thousands of research studies and
publications, and the development of health
care provider curriculum. Selye (1936) was
the "founding father" of stress response theory.
Stress response theory was one of the
most significant contributions to the field of
stress and coping. Selye designed it to describe,
predict, and explain living organisms'
physiological reactions to ubiquitous life
stressors. He gave it prominence and detail
with his general adaptation syndrome. The
GAS is able to describe and explain, in part,
physiological responses to stressors. Noticeably
absent, however, is the "connection" between
the body and the mind. It is this missing
"piece" that has given the theory limited
usefulness for nursing.


Some of the early research in nursing also
examined the stress response physiologically;
in addition, nursing has sought to assess, predict,
and explain both the physiological and
the psychosocial components of stress. With
the need to "see" the patient as a whole, nursing
moved quickly toward using models and
theories that took into consideration both
components. This is reflected in the broad
adoption of biopsychosocial models, measurements,
and intervention arenas of research.
These developments in stress, coping,
and health are further explicated in this book.


- <b>REFERENCES</b>


Aaronson, L., &amp; Seaman, L. (1989). Managing
hypernatremia in fluid deficient elderly. <i>Journal of
Gerontological Nursing, 15</i>, 29-36.


Allen, R. (1983). <i>Human stress: Its nature and control</i>.
Minneapolis, MN: Burgess.


Alligood, M., &amp; Marriner-Tomey, M. (1997). <i>Nursing
theory: Utilization &amp; application</i>. Norwalk, CT:
Appleton-Century-Crofts.


Andrew, H., &amp; Roy, C. (1986). <i>Essentials of the Roy Adaptation
Model</i>. Norwalk, CT: Appleton-Century-Crofts.


Bahnson, C. (1981). Stress and cancer: The state of the
art. <i>Psychosomatics, 22</i>, 207-220.


Barnfather, J. (1988). Testing a theoretical proposition
from modeling and role modeling: Basic need and
adaptive potential status. <i>Issues in Mental Health,
14</i>, 1-18.


Bleiker, E., &amp; van der Ploeg, H. M. (1999). Psychosocial
factors in the etiology of breast cancer: Review of a
popular link. <i>Patient Education and Counseling, 37</i>,
201-214.


Bower, H. &amp; Baker, B. (1976). The Roy Adaptation
Model: Using the adaptation model in a practitioner
curriculum. <i>Nursing Outlook, 24</i>, 686-689.

[p. <i>43</i>]

Brown, A. (1976). Effect of family visits on the blood
pressure and heart rate of patients in CCU. <i>Heart &amp;
Lung, 5</i>, 291-296.


Bryla, C. (1996). The relationship between stress and
the development of breast cancer: A literature review.
<i>Oncology Nursing Forum, 23</i>, 441-448.


Calhoun, D. (1992). Hypertension in blacks: Socioeconomic
stressors and sympathetic nervous system activity.
American <i>Journal of Medical Sociology, 304</i>,
306-311.


Calvert, M. (1989). Human-pet interaction and loneliness:
A test of concepts from Roy's Adaptation
Model. <i>Nursing Science Quarterly, 2</i>(4), 194-202.


Campbell, J., Finch, D., Allport, C., Erickson, H. C., &amp;
Swain, M. A. (1985). A theoretical approach to nursing
assessment. <i>Journal of Advanced Nursing, 10</i>(2),
111-115.


Cannon, W. B. (1932). <i>The wisdom of the body</i>. New
York: Norton.


Carrieri-Kohlman, V., Lindsey, A., &amp; West, C. (1993).
<i>Pathophysiological phenomena in nursing: Human
responses to illness</i> (2nd ed.). Philadelphia: W. B.
Saunders.


Cleland, V. (1965). The effect of stress on performance:
A study of the effect of situational stressors on the
performances of nurses—Modified by need for social
approval. <i>Nursing Research, 14</i>, 4-10.


Cooper, C., Cooper, R., &amp; Faragher, E. (1989). Incidence
and perception of psychosocial stress: The relationship
with breast cancer. <i>Psychological Medicine,
19</i>, 415-422.


Doswell, W. (1988). Physiological responses to stress.
<i>Annual Review of Nursing Research, 7</i>, 51-69.


Dunn, H. (1959). <i>High level wellness</i>. Arlington, VA:
R. W. Beatty.


Eidelman, D. (1980). Fatigue toward an analysis and
unified definition. <i>Medical Hypotheses, 6</i>, 517-526.


Erickson, H., &amp; Swain, M. (1982). A model for assessing
potential adaptation to stress. <i>Research in
Nursing &amp; Health, 5</i>, 93-101.


Erickson, H., Tomlin, E., &amp; Swain, M. (1983). <i>Modeling
and role modeling: A theory and paradigm for nursing</i>.
Englewood Cliffs, NJ: Prentice Hall.


Fair, L., Keene, A., Sampson, D., &amp; Michael, A. (1984).
Alterations in circadian excretion of urinary variables
and physiological indicators of stress following
surgery. <i>Nursing Research, 33</i>, 140-146.


Fauci, A., Braunwald, E., Isselbacher, K. J., Wilson, J.,
Martin, J., Kasper, D., Hauser, S., &amp; Longo, D.
(Eds.). (1998). <i>Harrison's principles of internal
medicine, 14th edition</i>. New York: McGraw-Hill.


Fawcett, J., &amp; Tulman, L. (1990). Building a programme
of research from the Roy Adaptation Model of nursing.
<i>Journal of Advanced Nursing, 15</i>, 720-725.


Fox, B. (1983). Current theory of psychogenic effects on
cancer incidence and prognosis. <i>Journal of
Psychosocial Oncology, 1</i>, 17-31.


Frain, M. &amp; Valiga, T. (1979). The multiple dimensions
of stress. <i>Topics in Clinical Nursing, 1</i>, 43-52.


Garbin, M. (1979). Stress research in clinical settings.
<i>Topics in Clinical Nursing, 1</i>, 87-95.


Goodkin, K., Antoni, M., &amp; Blaney, P. (1986). Stress
and hopelessness in the promotion of cervical
intraepithelial neoplasia to invasive squamous cell
carcinoma of the cervix. <i>Journal of Psychosomatic
Research, 30</i>, 67-76.


Grassi, L., &amp; Cappellari, L. (1988). State and trait psychological
characteristics of breast cancer patients.
<i>New Trends in Experimental and Clinical Psychiatry,
4</i>, 99-109.


Greer, S., &amp; Watson, M. (1985). Towards a
psychobiological model of cancer. Psychological
considerations. <i>Social Science and Medicine, 20</i>,
773-777.


Guyton, A. (1986). <i>Textbook of medical physiology</i> (7th
ed.). Philadelphia: W. B. Saunders.


Guzzeta, C., &amp; Forsyth, G. (1979). Nursing diagnostic
pilot study: Psychophysiological stress. <i>Advances in
Nursing Science, 2</i>, 27-44.


Heldt, P. (1981). Effect of therapeutic touch on anxiety
level in hospitalized patients. <i>Nursing Research, 30</i>,
32-37.


Helson, H. (1964). <i>Adaptation level theory</i>. New York:
Harper &amp; Row.


Herbert, T., &amp; Cohen, S. (1993). Stress and immunity in
humans: A meta-analytic review. <i>Psychosomatic
Medicine, 55</i>, 364-379.


Innes, M. (1992). Managing upper airway obstruction.
<i>British Journal of Nursing, 9</i>(14), 732-735.


Inouye, S. Albert, M., Mohs, R., Sun, K., &amp; Berkman,
L. (1993). Cognitive performance in a high-functioning
community-dwelling elderly population.
<i>Journal of Gerontology, 48</i>, 146-151.


Jackson, B. (1990), Social support and life satisfaction
of black climacteric women. <i>Western Journal of
Nursing Research, 12</i>, 25-27.


Jones, P. (1978). An adaptation model for nursing practice.
<i>American Journal of Nursing, 78</i>, 1900-1906.


Keller, E., &amp; Bzdek, V. (1986). Effects of therapeutic
touch on tension headache pain. <i>Nursing Research,
35</i>, 101-106.


Kidder, C. (1989). Reestablishing health: Factors influencing
the child's recovery in pediatric intensive
care. <i>Journal of Pediatric Nursing, 4</i>, 96-103.


King, I. (1971). <i>Toward a theory for nursing: General
concepts of human behavior</i>. New York: John Wiley.


King, I. (1981). <i>A theory for nursing: Systems, concepts,
process</i>. New York: John Wiley.


Kinney, C. K., &amp; Erickson, H. C. (1990). Modeling the
client's world: A way to holistic care. <i>Issues in Mental
Health Nursing, 11</i>(2), 93-108.


Krazewski, A. (1994). <i>Coping with miscarriage: Use of
adaptive potential</i>. Unpublished master's thesis,
Wayne State University, College of Nursing, Detroit,
MI.

[p. <i>44</i>]

Krieger, D. (1975). Therapeutic touch: The imprimatur
of nursing. <i>American Journal of Nursing, 75</i>, 784-787.


Krieger, D., Peper, E., &amp; Encoli, S. (1979). Therapeutic
touch: Searching for evidence of physiological
change. <i>American Journal of Nursing, 79</i>(4), 660-662.


Lafreniere, K., Mutus, B., Cameroon, S., Tannous, M.,
Giannotti, M., Abu-Zahra, H., &amp; Laukkanen, E.
(1999). Effects of therapeutic touch on biochemical
and mood indicators in women. <i>Journal of Alternative
and Complementary Medicine, 5</i>, 367-370.


Lanuza, D. (1995). Postoperative circadian rhythms and
cortisol stress response to two types of cardiac surgery.
<i>American Journal of Critical Care, 4</i>, 212-220.


Lanuza, D., &amp; Marotta, S. (1987). Endocrine and psychologic
responses of patients to cardiac pacemaker
implantation. <i>Heart &amp; Lung, 16</i>, 496-505.


Leidy, N. (1989). A physiological analysis of stress and
chronic illness. <i>Journal of Advanced Nursing, 14</i>,
868-876.


Levine, M. (1973). <i>Introduction to clinical nursing</i> (2nd
ed.). Philadelphia: F. A. Davis.


Levy, S., Herberman, R., Lee, J., Whiteside, T.,
Kirkwood, J., &amp; McFeeley, S. (1990). Estrogen receptor
concentration and social factors as predictors
of natural killer cell activity in early-stage breast
cancer patients. <i>Natural Immune Cell Growth Regulation,
9</i>, 313-324.


Lindsey, A. (1983). Stress response. In V. Carrieri-Kohlman,
A. Lindsey, &amp; C. West (Eds.), Pathophysiological
phenomena in nursing: <i>Human responses
to illness</i> (2nd ed.). Philadelphia: W. B. Saunders.


Lopez-lbor, J. (1987). The meaning of stress, anxiety,
and collective panic in clinical settings. <i>Psychotherapy
and Psychosomatic, 47</i>, 168-174.


Lyon, B., &amp; Werner, J. (1987). Stress. In J. Fitzpatrick &amp;
R. Taunton (Eds.), <i>Annual review of nursing research</i>.
New York: Springer.


Marriner-Tomey, M. (1994). <i>Nursing theorists and their
work</i>. Norwalk, CT: Appleton-Century-Crofts.


Maslow, A. H. (1970). <i>Motivation and personality</i> (2nd
ed.). New York: Harper &amp; Row.


Mason, J. W. (1971). A re-evaluation of the concept of
"non-specificity" in stress theory. <i>Journal of Psychiatric
Research, 8</i>, 323-333.


Matthews, K., &amp; Glass, D. (1981). Type A behavior,
stressful life events, and coronary heart disease. In
B. Dohrenwend &amp; B. Dohrenwend (Eds.), <i>Stressful
life events and their context</i>. New York: Prodist.


McEwen, B., &amp; Mendelson, S. (1983). Effects of stress
on the neurochemistry and morphology of the brain:
Counterregulation versus damage. In L. Goldberger
&amp; S. Breznitz (Eds.), <i>Handbook of stress: Theoretical
and clinical aspects</i> (3rd ed.). New York: Free
Press.


Mitchell, G., &amp; Pilkington, B. (1990). Theoretical approaches
to nursing practice: A comparison of Roy
and Parse. <i>Nursing Science Quarterly, 3</i>, 81-87.


Murphy, D. (1993). Managing patient stress in endoscopy.
<i>Gastroenterology Nursing, 16</i>, 72-74.


Neuman, B. (1982). <i>The Neuman Systems Model</i>.
Norwalk, CT: Appleton-Century-Crofts.


Nightingale, F. (1969). <i>Notes on nursing: What it is and
what it is not</i>. New York: Dover. (Original work published
1860)


Oster, C. (1979). Sensory deprivation and homeostasis.
<i>Journal of the American Geriatric Society, 8</i>, 364-367.


Page, G. G., &amp; Ben-Eliyahu, S. (1997). The immune-suppressive
nature of pain. <i>Seminars in Oncology
Nursing, 13</i>, 10-15.


Pelletier, K. (1977). <i>Mind as healer, mind as slayer</i>. New
York: Dell.


Rambo, B. (1983). <i>Adaptation nursing: Assessment and
intervention</i>. Philadelphia: W. B. Saunders.


Roy, C. (1984). <i>Introduction to nursing: An adaptation
model</i> (2nd ed.). Englewood Cliffs, NJ: Prentice
Hall.


Roy, C., &amp; Andrews, H. (1991). <i>The Roy Adaptation
Model: The definitive statement</i>. Norwalk, CT:
Appleton &amp; Lange.


Ryan, M. (1996). Loneliness, social support, and depression
as interactive variables with cognitive status:
Testing Roy's model. <i>Nursing Science Quarterly, 9</i>,
107-114.


Schulman, B., &amp; Swain, M. (1980). Active patient orientation.
<i>Patient Counseling and Health Education, 2</i>,
32-37.


Selye, H. (1936). A syndrome produced by diverse nocuous
agents. <i>Nature, 138</i>, 32.


Selye, H. (1950). Forty years of stress research: Principal
remaining problems and misconceptions. <i>CMA
Journal, 115</i>, 53-55.


Selye, H. (1956). <i>The stress of life</i>. New York: McGraw-Hill.


Selye, H. (1974). <i>Stress without distress</i>. Philadelphia: J.
B. Lippincott.


Selye, H. (1976a). <i>Stress in health and disease</i>. Reading,
MA: Butterworth's.


Selye H. (1976b). <i>The stress of life</i> (Rev. ed.). New York:
McGraw-Hill.


Selye, H. (1976c). Forty years of stress research: Principal
remaining problems and misconceptions. <i>CMA
Journal, 115</i>, 53-55.


Selye, H. (1979). <i>The stress of my life: A scientist's
memoirs</i>. New York: Van Nostrand Reinhold.


Selye, H. (1980). <i>Selye's guide to stress research</i>. New
York: Van Nostrand Reinhold.


Sharp, S. (1996). Understanding stress in the ICU setting.
<i>British Journal of Nursing, 5</i>, 369-373.


Simonton, C., Simonton, S., &amp; Creighton, J. (1978).
<i>Getting well again</i>. Los Angeles: Tarcher.


Sutterley, D. (1979). Stress &amp; health: A survey of self-regulation
modality. <i>Topics in Clinical Nursing, 1</i>, 1-26.


Swain, M. A., &amp; Steckel, S. B. (1981). Influencing adherence
among hypertensives. <i>Research in Nursing
&amp; Health, 4</i>, 213-222.

[p. <i>45</i>]

Tache, J., &amp; Selye, H. (1985). On stress and coping
mechanisms. <i>Issues in Mental Health Nursing, 7</i>, 3-24.


Topf, M. (1994). Theoretical considerations for research
on environmental stress and health. <i>Image, 26</i>, 289-293.


Toth, J. (1984). Variables associated with the stressful
experience of hospital discharge during acute myocardial
infarction [Doctoral dissertation, The Catholic
University of America, 1984). <i>Dissertation Abstracts
International</i>, A82857.


Toth, J. (1987). Stressors affecting older versus younger
AMI patients. <i>Dimensions of Critical Care Nursing,
6</i>, 147-157.


Toth, J. (1988). Measuring the stressful experience of
hospital discharge following acute myocardial infarction.
In C. Waltz &amp; O. Strickland (Eds.), <i>Measurement
of nursing outcomes</i> (pp. 3-23). New York:
Springer.


Toth, J. (1993). Is stress at hospital discharge after acute
myocardial infarction greater in women than in
men? <i>American Journal of Critical Care, 2</i>, 35-40.


Vitaliano, P., Scanlan, J., Ochs, H., Siegler, I., &amp; Snyder,
E. (1998). Psychosocial stress moderates the relationship
of cancer history with natural killer cell activity.
<i>Annals of Behavioral Medicine, 20</i>, 199-208.


von Onciul, J. (1996). Stress at work. <i>British Medical
Journal, 313</i>, 745-749.


Walker, L. O., (1994). <i>Strategies for theory construction
in nursing</i> (3rd ed.). Norwalk, CT: Appleton &amp;
Lange.


Walker, L. O., &amp; Avant, K. C. (1988). <i>Strategies for theory
construction in nursing</i>. Norwalk, CT: Appleton
&amp; Lange.


Watson, M., Pettingale, K., &amp; Greer, S. (1984). Emotional
control and autonomic arousal in breast cancer
patients. <i>Journal of Psychosomatic Research, 28</i>,
467-474.


Werner, J. S. (1993). Stressors and health outcomes:
Synthesis of nursing research, 1980-1990. In J.
Barnfather &amp; B. Lyon (Eds.), <i>Stress and coping:
State of the science and implications for nursing theory,
research, and practice</i> (pp. 11-38). Indianapolis,
IN: Sigma Theta Tau International.


White, N. E., Richter, J. M., &amp; Fry, C. (1992). Coping,
social support, and adaptation to chronic illness.
<i>Western Journal of Nursing Research, 14</i>(2), 211-224.


Zolten, A. (1989). Constructive integration of learning
theory and phenomenological approaches to biofeedback
training. <i>Biofeedback Self Regulation, 14</i>,
89-99.

