TRANSCRIPT OF AUDIO FILE:
______________________________________________________________________________
BEGIN TRANSCRIPT:
COUNSELOR: Yeah.
PATIENT: I just don't know if I, have any problems that are any bigger than anybody else's. It just seems like, just the way life is.
COUNSELOR: Well sure it's the way life is but do you think that's, that's a requirement for...
PATIENT: No I don't.
COUNSELOR: Think there are bigger problems.
PATIENT: It's just I think it's more, it's almost harder to go into all this stuff because then you have to deal with it, then just to let it go. But I mean it's probably better to deal with it so that you can move forward but.
COUNSELOR: So like over the last few weeks you said like if you let it go.
PATIENT: Yeah just like go through things and not analyze them constantly which was giving me the anxiety to the degree that I was having it. Now that if I have any anxiety, I've just been letting it go. I've just been, "Okay."
COUNSELOR: How, how, how do you do it? How do you let it go?
PATIENT: I just, I choose not to focus on it. I choose not to focus on the fact that I feel uncomfortable. Or I remember times in my past where I felt this way, it's a part of life. I don't necessarily know if it's an anxiety it's, life is full of feelings and we experience them. And, there wouldn't be such a thing as acting class or there wouldn't be such a thing as improvisation where business men and even other people outside of the acting field go to these classes to loose their inhabitations to a certain degree if people didn't feel uncomfortable. Okay everyone would be a great speaker everyone would be able to lead the masses, because that's what we're all afraid of all these different things. So, it's allowing me to realize that, "Okay so I'm afraid of these things. But I want to do other things. And these blocks are in the way and I just have to pass through them." I just have to force sometimes force yourself because you know what everyday I'm sure you don't want to get up and you don't, but you come to work. Well everyday I don't want to get up and I've been allowing myself to sleep, so therefore I've been loosing trust in myself. But it's always a choice, I'm going to choose to sleep well it's always been that.
COUNSELOR: Every day you don't want to get up?
PATIENT: Oh no I mean it's not that I don't want to get up and face the day, it's that I want to sleep a little more. Come on I go to school all day and work all night, that's a lot and I'm tired. And I don't come home and go straight to bed because I have things I want to do or I'll have a beer and unwind and before you know it's three in the morning and you have to get up at 7:00 or 8:00.
COUNSELOR: Yeah.
PATIENT: I mean it's just too much for me.
COUNSELOR: So you're just tired?
PATIENT: Yeah I've done it too many, too many, I've done it too long I've done it for too many years.
COUNSELOR: Um hmm.
PATIENT: It's not like I've just started doing it. I've done it for the last four years, worked that hard. So I'm to a point where I'm like, "You know what if I want to sleep I'm paying for this school I will sleep." You know, period. But now I'm challenging that because what happens is, if you're going to be in something and you don't follow through with it you start to loose trust in your ability to follow through. Which happened to me, which caused me to have anxiety in the first place, I'm sure. 0:02:48.7
COUNSELOR: You know what I'm thinking now?
PATIENT: What?
COUNSELOR: That, you really like the first thing that I notice about you is that you really want to do everything on your own. Pardon me if I'm wrong but the way I'm sensing this is that when I saw you the first time, you were really intent on explaining to me completely what's your problem.
PATIENT: Yeah.
COUNSELOR: This is what it is and this is why it is and this is how it goes and this is where it could be and this is why it could be and so on. And, you were just giving me like a really good comprehensive, energetic summary of what's wrong. And now you're coming in and you're beginning to give me a good comprehensive explanation of how you could work it out. So, but in most cases you're like doing all the work. You tell me what the problem is you don't even wait for me to ask questions you just tell me everything. Now you're just coming in and telling me, "Well, this is how I'm going to do it. This is how I did it. This is the plan."
PATIENT: Well what, I mean I've always been like that. 
COUNSELOR: Yeah.
PATIENT: I mean I don't know if that's a problem with it or what.
COUNSELOR: I don't, I don't know that it's a problem I'm just saying that this is something that I notice.
PATIENT: Yeah and this tends to be a lot of the way that I deal at things. I think just because I feel unchallenged and that's my challenge is to work all of these different things out.
COUNSELOR: Um hmm, what do you mean unchallenged?
PATIENT: I just feel I mean I don't feel utilized to my full potential. 
COUNSELOR: Um hmm. And in what...
PATIENT: In every way.
COUNSELOR: In every way.
PATIENT: I mean I'm somebody who has the capability to do a lot of things and I'm not doing them. 
COUNSELOR: Um hmm.
PATIENT: I mean, of course I'm going to feel unutilized. I'm just...
COUNSELOR: I know, I know from last time that acting is one of the places you feel you can be acting.
PATIENT: Or something. I mean I could be doing, I mean, I just feel like I have way too much energy and way too much information that I keep storing up to just go through the motions and just meet the medium and not go beyond it. And so I think what I do then is I build little obstacles within that medium, to try to challenge myself even though it's kind of self destructive in a way. Because it's not really taking me anywhere.
COUNSELOR: What do you mean building obstacles?
PATIENT: I just mean like, well I mean maybe procrastinating so that I have a deadline. Instead of just doing things, I don't know and getting them done. I don't know I'm just making all this up I have no idea if it's true or not. It's just what comes to my mind so. 
COUNSELOR: What? What's going on? 0:05:56.4
PATIENT: Nothing I'm just like I don't know what to, I'm tired and I don't, I don't know what else to say. I don't want to sit here and just keep explaining so I'm like well.
COUNSELOR: Don't what?
PATIENT: Want to just sit here and keep explaining things like I could. 
COUNSELOR: Uh huh.
PATIENT: I mean other than that I don't have anything to really say.
COUNSELOR: When I said that did, did, did it sound to you like I'm saying you shouldn't be doing this?
PATIENT: No it just sounded to me like you said what you did say which was that you were observing that I was doing that. And that I recognize that yes I do do that, a lot. Usually I'll be I'll analyze things from all different sides and present that, a lot of the time.
COUNSELOR: So you kind of realized that that I'm noticing that and you realize that yeah it's really happening so you can decide to stop.
PATIENT: I just decided, okay, I mean to tell you the truth I don't know what I'm doing here today. I don't, really didn't really feel like coming, I didn't really think I needed to come. I just kind of felt like, but I'm here because I've already gone through all the work to be here. I'm not unhappy to be here. I feel even about it.
COUNSELOR: Um hmm.
PATIENT: You know?
COUNSELOR: Do you have thoughts about the first meeting we had?
PATIENT: Yeah it was fine. It went good. I mean I don't, I don't know I mean I just don't know. I don't know you know I just know that I'm dealing with a lot of things and I just have that I have to take action and go forward otherwise I'm not going to feel better. And I think I have the capability to do that. I mean it's just like when Billy Joel was at my school on Monday and he said he checked himself into a psychiatric ward when he was in his 20s or whatever.
COUNSELOR: Who was that?
PATIENT: Billy Joel. And when he was there he had to stay for a certain amount of time because they wouldn't let him leave. And he realized that these people were a lot worse off than him and he had things to deal with and he just had to deal with them. It's not that I don't want help from people I mean I get help from my parents and from, or I can accept help from you it's just that I don't know exactly what, I've got so many different things going on I don't know how one can help the other necessarily. You know what I mean?
COUNSELOR: Um hmm.
PATIENT: It's just like...
COUNSELOR: And it looks like you, you really need to figure that out.
PATIENT: Figure what?
COUNSELOR: How this is going to work with other things. 0:08:17.0
PATIENT: Well just I want to figure out how I'm going to allow myself to, to just to continue to move forward and find happiness in my life through meaning through making things around me mean something to me because they have value. So I need to keep searching out things that are going to give me that.
COUNSELOR: Um hmm.
PATIENT: You know? So that I can, yeah.
COUNSELOR: And you kind of have to figure that out like right now.
PATIENT: Well I don't have to figure it out right now I guess. Can just kind of go along but there has to be some balance. You know otherwise, you know, I'm just kind of letting myself experience things right now. Without pushing too hard but at the same time I do have responsibilities like, stuff I have to do for school stuff that I have to do that people expect me to do.
COUNSELOR: You sound to me like you're operating under pressure. 
PATIENT: Like I'm operating under pressure?
COUNSELOR: I mean you're just describing to me several things that can put you under pressure. Like you got to do that you got to do that.
PATIENT: Yeah because I don't really want to do it. So it does feel like I'm being pressured to do it in a way. I don't really want to go to school today, but I know when I get there it will be interesting.
COUNSELOR: So, why don't you want to go?
PATIENT: Because I don't really see the point.
COUNSELOR: It's going to be interesting but that's not the point.
PATIENT: Well a lot of things are interesting. You know what I mean? I can probably find 50 things to do today in one in 15 minutes that would interesting in New York city for me to do, so.
COUNSELOR: So, so you're saying, "Even if it's interesting I'm not sure it's what I need to do." 
PATIENT: Yeah although I'm going to go because I only have three weeks left and I just want to finish it out so that if I do decide to come back next year I have the option. If I keep missing school I'm not going to have the option.
COUNSELOR: Do you miss school a lot?
PATIENT: No but, for me in the morning not my important classes. But my drama classes and stuff like that. I mean the way I look at it is like this, there's a lot of people that are my age that are doing a lot of things, that are exciting to me. And I could be doing those things too because I have the capabilities and I have all the different things that are required to do that so I guess the reason I feel like I'm operating under pressure is because it's only up to me to get myself (inaudible at 0:10:39.3) it's not really up to anybody else. No one else can give me that, and if they could please come. Because all are welcome I'll take it. 0:10:46.0
COUNSELOR: Um hmm.
PATIENT: I mean I just want I want to live a life that is exciting to me, to me. I don't want to just be one of those people that go, I mean look outside there's a million people that aren't getting what they want, that are doing nothing, that aren't happy and there's just satisfied. You know it's true, I mean they're everywhere.
COUNSELOR: I'm accepting everything you said except the doing nothing.
PATIENT: Who the people who are doing nothing? Oh I'm not I mean generalizing. I don't mean to pass judgment but there's a lot of people who are doing things but they don't really fulfilled. That's what I mean by doing nothing. And, that's just how I kind of feel when I got wait tables. I mean sure I'm making money. There's so many people that get trapped in that and then they don't get out of it and it takes it sucks your energy. It sucks your energy to wait on all those people I'm sure, just like it would to do a lot of things but.
COUNSELOR: Yeah.
PATIENT: I think I have a lot of different issues and anger. You know what I mean with that whole thing.
COUNSELOR: What, what strikes me in talking about anger I mean I'm, I'm not feeling the anger. What I'm, what I'm, what I'm noticing is that, it's really like a pressure that the word comes to my mind. Like you're really, every the way you're describing it every decision you make every, every step that you take every place that you go, has to be implicated in this final solution. This is the thing that's going to be bringing meaning to your life, or not. And you got to figure this out now, otherwise you're wasting your time and you're doing nothing.
PATIENT: Well then what's the alternative do you have a suggestion? I mean I don't want to just the alternative is to allow everything to have meaning which I could do. But then I'm just accepting things that I don't really think I want to accept all the time.
COUNSELOR: Does this happen to you a lot in your life? Accepting things you didn't want?
PATIENT: No, I don't think so. I usually get what I want. This has been this is a trying time, this is challenging period. To sustain a life in Manhattan with hardly no money, is challenging. And to pursue a career that everyone wants to do is challenging. And to succeed out of it is even more challenging. 0:13:09.7
COUNSELOR: You're right. 
PATIENT: So there you go. You know what I mean? And, everybody I know sits home and smokes pot every night and they, I don't but they do and that's just like everyone is just trying to deal. You know what I mean? So I don't see myself as that different. If I went home and smoked pot every night and numbed myself out probably things would have less meaning. Well I'm sure there's healthy ways to deal with it, but, I don't know I mean the more I look around the more I just see like, that maybe I'm doing okay. Maybe that I am doing okay, dealing with everything that I'm dealing with. Because I'm certainly dealing with it better I think than a lot of people I know not judging them but I mean just saying. I mean I couldn't be happy smoking pot every night and numbing myself out to that degree, from like 3:00 in the afternoon on. You're not going to get anywhere that way. Maybe you will maybe that person will. I'm not the one to say but that's the pressure I do put on myself because I don't feel like I can allow myself that luxury. You know what I mean?
COUNSELOR: Why can't you understand that you don't want to do that? Like why could you allow it yourself? Or it's because...
PATIENT: Because why would I? Why don't I allow myself to do that? I don't know.
COUNSELOR: Well why, why would other people do that?
PATIENT: Because it makes them feel good.
COUNSELOR: So it would not make you feel good? Okay.
PATIENT: I'm a little tired and crabby today. So, I'm like that's why I'm being a little shorter than probably I'd normally be.
COUNSELOR: Shorter?
PATIENT: I mean I'm just jumping on things because I'm a little tired and crabby today.
COUNSELOR: Um hmm. 
PATIENT: I stayed up late last night until 4:00 and I'm just like...
COUNSELOR: So you're coming straight from school?
PATIENT: No I've been up since 9:00 but.
COUNSELOR: So is this you being crabby now?
PATIENT: Kind of. I'm not like this is probably the extent of it. I just feel a little weird today with the situation because I have been you know what I mean I haven't seen you for like a month and, I miss this whole thing here it feels a little more formal than when I go speak with Weiland the head of Child Services. 
COUNSELOR: Um hmm.
PATIENT: And we're in her little office and it's at, connected to my school, it just seems less formal. This makes me feel like, I feel a little subjective here. 
COUNSELOR: (inaudible at 0:15:28.1)?
PATIENT: That I'm a subject, which I am. I'm being videotaped and you're looking at me and I'm analyzing myself to you. It makes me feel, and sometimes my conclusion was after I guess our last meeting after the culmination of all these different things was that maybe I'm allowing myself to be too, too, too subjective. To have too many different people pass their point of view onto me about me. And for me to spend too much time on me with my perspective me. And it was making me paranoid and like anxious. Because all this focus on the self I mean I'm sure if you did the same thing to yourself you might start feeling a little, because all you're doing is analyzing yourself constantly and you're allowing other people to analyze you too. Although they're doing I'm not saying that they're passing judgment. 0:16:08.5
COUNSELOR: Um hmm.
PATIENT: I'm saying they're just, you know it's all...
COUNSELOR: So it feels like a like it's taxing that I'm sitting here and I'm just watching...
PATIENT: No I'm actually enjoying...
COUNSELOR: ...thinking about (inaudible at 0:16:17.9).
PATIENT: ...I just want to be nice to you because I want you to be happy. I just want you to be happy because...
COUNSELOR: Why, why do you need me to be happy?
PATIENT: Because it gives me something to focus on.
COUNSELOR: What do you mean? To make me happy?
PATIENT: Well, see you analyze everything I say like it has meaning. That doesn't having any meaning I mean that I'm just being nice. I'm just being a nice person and I'm just trying to, try to stick this out and see what can come of it. That's all.
COUNSELOR: Well part of what I'm trying to do is to understand what you're saying.
PATIENT: Uh huh, do you not understand me?
COUNSELOR: I think to understand exactly what you're saying is, in certain places I have to ask a question or two.
PATIENT: Well you can ask me whatever you want.
COUNSELOR: So, it's probably can look like analyzing I suppose you can call it analyzing but really what I'm trying to do is figure out exactly what you're saying so. I don't want to take for granted anything that you're telling me like is this I understand it. But I guess it can be a little irritating if someone asked you a lot of questions.
PATIENT: But I didn't mean you ask me questions per se. I'm just saying I'm a person like I'm at school people are constantly like judging me I already went through this with you. It's like I'm constantly a subject of judgment because I'm very inhibited, and I'm very much myself.
COUNSELOR: You want to be on stage I mean.
PATIENT: Yeah, so I don't mind that they analyze me, or focus on me or call me things. I mean they're all my friends. They call me things because they want attention or they want to piss me off or whatever.
COUNSELOR: Call you things like what things?
PATIENT: Oh I don't know people just joke like, "Hey O'Hara you're being a freak over there you know that food" or whatever just some stupid crap that I don't care about.
COUNSELOR: Um hmm.
PATIENT: But it's like, I don't know. I mean I don't think that if I got everything I wanted today that I would it would be any different. But I think it would be different in the respect that I would have obtained at least something that I've wanted for a long time and gotten to the first plateau of that. I don't think would people are still going to be people and I'm still going to be me, but on this at least I'd have obtain some level of security to the point where I'm starting to see the things that I have, the dreams or the, whatever you want to deem them as coming to fruition.
COUNSELOR: Um hmm.
PATIENT: And that's important to me. And, do I know the answer? No. Should I lay back and let it all happen and hope that it works some how? Maybe. Should I just plot along and let myself accept everything and make everything a good thing? Maybe. Should I attack it and be ferociously ambitious? Maybe. You know what I mean I don't know what to do. So that's the challenge you know?
COUNSELOR: Yeah. 0:19:06.8
PATIENT: Should I forget about it all together? Maybe it'd just happen then. I don't know.
COUNSELOR: It doesn't seem to me like your leaning in this direction.
PATIENT: But I'm just you know who knows. Who knows how one gets to where one wants to get to you know? 
COUNSELOR: Well, that's a very good question. 
PATIENT: I mean I just think as far as artistic people go it's hard to put to like try to categorize yourself into something. Because look at him he was a miserable person. 
COUNSELOR: I'm just looking at, I'm just looking at this myself and I'm thinking Jackson Paul how did he get to where he wanted to be and did he?
PATIENT: Well and yeah and he was an alcoholic and he was, ended up dying in that car crash and he was pissed and he was painting with passion and anger. I mean that's what was what fueled him right? So it's like I'm not saying I have to have that but I do have that. I have a certain sense of tragedy and happiness that's just innate. Although I also have a very happy innocent spirit which is innate. And that's a conflict you know inside of me.
COUNSELOR: You said the first thing you said is that you have something tragic innate?
PATIENT: Well I just am very I can easily identify with people that are like, you know unhappy. 
COUNSELOR: Um hmm. You said identify with what does that mean?
PATIENT: Like if I'm going to play a character who's, who's, who's flawed in some way, who's misperceived by society, it's really easy for me, because I can invest myself in that and my spirit some how, my mind or my being understands how to go there, understands how to funnel that in and, and play it, and how to become it. It just understands it. Which is good for me, I mean if I ever do have a career those are the kinds of parts that people love to I love to play and certainly, um. I mean I think I will have a career I mean I'm not I doubt that I'm just like (inaudible at 0:21:05.5).
COUNSELOR: Wait well wait what just happened?
PATIENT: I'm just being silly with you. I mean I'm was just rambling and then I was silly for a second whatever. You know how people do that all the time I don't know.
COUNSELOR: It sounded like to me like you decided not to finish saying what you were saying.
PATIENT: Oh you're right probably I did...
COUNSELOR: I mean you were saying something and then you just...
PATIENT: What was I saying I was saying...I was just talking about that I think I will have a career and then I (inaudible).
COUNSELOR: Yeah you said if I ever had a career and then you went back to this, "Yeah I am going to have a career but..." and then...
PATIENT: Huh I wonder why I did that? Maybe because that brings up all that pressured angst or whatever, who knows. I know I put too much pressure on myself like I was watching Billy Joel and I'm sure a lot of people knew this but Billy Joel was, had all his music up there in front of him and he's sang these songs a million times but he has it there because he has this psychological feeling that he's going to forget the words and a lot of times he does forget the words.
COUNSELOR: Really, he said that? 0:22:06.5
PATIENT: Um hmm. But even though he's sung all these songs so many times. And sometimes think I have to be perfect like I have to remember everything and I have to remember what I just said and have to do everything otherwise there's something flawed in me and I'm going to go crazy or my mind is not functioning properly. You know what I mean like doubting self doubting in that way. And that's one area that I'd like to fix through these meetings. I mean that's something that, I need to just allow myself to be human. And to if I make a mistake, "Okay, alright, I drank too much last night. I'm hung over, I'm unhappy about it this is the twelfth time in a row." Or whatever, "Okay, pick yourself up, go for it and just don't judge yourself. Just try to do the best you can to go forward in a healthy way." Instead of clogering on myself, because that's what makes me have a lack of self esteem from that. But again it's hard because a lot of artists are really insecure. A lot of creative people are really insecure that's what makes them good artists. So, it's, it's a hard thing for me try to understand. And that's why I feel like in [some situations] (ph) I should just leave myself alone. That's, that's what I'm getting all back to. You know?
COUNSELOR: Yeah.
PATIENT: Just do my work. 
COUNSELOR: So, I'm just (inaudible at 0:23:34.8), you really have in the last few weeks where they kind of under control for you?
PATIENT: Um hmm. I mean they were pretty good. I mean I missed a lot of drama classes but I'm also in a new relationship for like the last month and it's been really good. It's someone my own age and someone who's a thinker, smart and a lot more like me than any of the other guys that I've been with. And, I'm really happy to be with him. But I'm allowing myself like if I want to miss drama class because I'm on Coney Island at his house, I allow myself...
COUNSELOR: Oh he's, he's on the Island?
PATIENT: Yeah. I allow myself that luxury. 
COUNSELOR: Um hmm.
PATIENT: Because I've allowed myself to have an actual relationship to this degree where I'm really opened up to somebody in like two, two or three years. So I'm allowing myself...
COUNSELOR: Really? That's kind of, sounds good.
PATIENT: Yeah where, where I'm completely myself. I mean I had these two relationships prior, but I wasn't myself but I wasn't, I didn't allow myself to really open up. Do you know what I mean? Just be myself as a, as a mind, as a, as a, you know what I mean? Not just sexually and intimately see why, as a person, as a full person. And that's what's happening with this person. And it's great. Although this person is leaving at the end of May to go to Europe for two months which is also, little frustrating but. 0:25:06.2
COUNSELOR: He's, he's going on a big tour?
PATIENT: He's going to Europe to study Italian, because he has to learn Italian or something. And I would love to go and that's another, a lot of my frustrations go back to a lack of money. And I know a lot of people, see this is my rationality and this is another problem I'm always equalizing it which makes my feelings mean nothing.
COUNSELOR: You mean compared to other people?
PATIENT: Yeah because I was just going say well a lot of people have a lot less than I have. I mean I have a lot compared to so many people then of course compared to some of the other people I have nothing. But to me I know I have a lot, I'm not stupid. But, I would love to have the money to go to Europe with him, and he'd love for me to go. I'd like to live like that. And I'm really pissed that I haven't created that kind of life for myself. Because I'd like to I have my best friends in Rome I'd like to go to Rome and spend a month and then I'd like to go spend a month with him in Venice. Well a lot of people would like these things but the reason I think I get so pissed at myself about it is because I understand that I have the potential for me to create these situations. It's not that difficult I have a free place to stay in Venice and a free place to stay in Rome. All I have to do is get an air ticket and whatever else but I also have to figure out, I have to give up my apartment here which is not a big deal I have to give it up in August anyway. 
COUNSELOR: You have to give it up?
PATIENT: In August yeah, which is fine. But, but it's like you know it's just like that matter of like, the conflict of wanting things and not facilitating or being able to get what you, get it.
COUNSELOR: Um hmm. 
PATIENT: It's like that seems to be a theme with me, that I need to work on. Or find out how to deal with or you know. 
COUNSELOR: Well there are, it sounds like there are a lot of things you want that you can't get but they're belong to different, I mean in my mind they belong to different groups like to want to go for two months to Europe is one kind of thing.
PATIENT: Um hmm.
COUNSELOR: To want to be successful actor is a different kind of thing. 
PATIENT: Um hmm.
COUNSELOR: I mean it's different kind of resources that go in and different kind of certainty also. I mean to go to Europe you just have to have a certain amount of money to go.
PATIENT: Yeah.
COUNSELOR: It's completely up to you. To be a successful actor sounds a little more complicated. 
PATIENT: Yeah but the thing is again if I didn't have to work so hard and I wasn't so tired I could have more energy to put into my acting. I mean I'm whipped, I'm like worn out. And I tend to drink more when I'm working not like a lot I'm talking like I'll have two beers when I come home from work which I don't think is excessive but. I just explained it, you know what I mean?
COUNSELOR: You're saying, you're saying "but".
PATIENT: I said but because I just listened to myself defend myself to you so, but I'm still obviously feeling a little conscious about it because that's not really the way I want to live. 
COUNSELOR: Because two beers, two beers after work at home is something you would wake up the next morning feel better about? [Just wait until it's done] (ph at 0:27:52.1).
PATIENT: I wouldn't feel bad but some days I might if maybe I got carried away and had three or whatever because it's taxing me, I'm more tired the next day from that beer I don't sleep as well.
COUNSELOR: Sure. 0:28:02.5
PATIENT: And especially like I'm having it so late at night. So it all is this cycle because you go to school and you go straight to work you're so tired you aren't eating properly. You try to eat what you can and you get off work you eat something, probably not very good for you because everything is closed and you haven't gone shopping. And then you have beer and you go to bed. And it's like everyday day after day, day after day and for me that just drains me. Meanwhile, fantasy world I wish I had the resources so that I could just focus on doing my acting and going on auditions and putting my career forward. But yet, of course there are people before me and there will be people to come who will achieve this thing (ph) in the same situation as I. They'll find a way. So obviously my only option is find a way no one is going to give me money.
COUNSELOR: How do you financing your school?
PATIENT: Student loans and scholarships. 
COUNSELOR: Um hmm.
PATIENT: So...I know that I, have all the capabilities to have a successful career. Maybe it's just like not my time yet. Maybe it would be too much for me. Maybe I'm self defeating myself I don't know. 
COUNSELOR: How do say [self-defeating yourself] (ph at 0:29:15.6)?
PATIENT: Well maybe because I'm not, being as aggressive as I need to be and stuff maybe that's because I don't feel like I'm really ready, I don't know.
COUNSELOR: Um hmm.
PATIENT: I mean I feel like I am ready but it's just like, well I guess the fact is that I'm just tired. And I don't have the energy right now and I'm just going to have to push through that and make the energy.
COUNSELOR: What kind of, what kind of roles do you usually go for?
PATIENT: Well, it just depends, like I used to go for like boy next door kind of sweet boy roles but I think I'm kind of growing out of that. Like kids, not kids but young, young adults who have like some sort of flaw. You know like something's not quite right. 
COUNSELOR: Like what?
PATIENT: Well for instance...okay for instance maybe there was TV show - let's just use ER - and there was a mother she's dying of cancer and she had been an alcoholic and had an abusive relationship with her son and her son has to come to the hospital and the son has followed in her footsteps and the son has to come to the hospital to reconcile that relationship because his mother is going to die. And he's flawed right now and seeing her flaws and her on her deathbed it helps him to see a new way. That's the kind of role I see myself playing.
COUNSELOR: Did you just make, make it up? 0:30:34.3
PATIENT: Um hmm, but these are the kind of things I see myself doing. 
COUNSELOR: Um hmm. 
PATIENT: I have this great idea for this movie, about this boy, and he wants to be a musician and people don't support him in being a musician and he's had kind of a trailer life growing up. You know not, maybe foster homes not a lot of money very scattered very abusive alcoholism or whatever. But he pushes forward to do this and he achieves it and I don't know I'm being vague because it kind of like The Rose, The Rose of Bette Midler (inaudible at 0:31:08.5). But more from this guy's point of view and this guy's name is Toby and, I don't know it's not an articulated story right now. But I can feel it and see pictures of it. You know what I mean? And the boy wants reconciliation with his parents and he wants to find love and he wants to be accepted for who he is, but he can't get there because he's flawed. Because he's flawed because he's addicted to drugs and alcohol. See that's the kind of part I see myself playing.
COUNSELOR: Um hmm. And you're saying that you're seeing it sort of I mean is this something you would write?
PATIENT: Sure, I mean I could write it. I haven't sat down and done it but, and I don't even know if I'd even play the part I thought I would but I might not. I mean I think of a lot of things like that. I mean I have all sorts of ideas of stuff but, I want to see them happen. That's why I think I'm in New York. I mean I'm here to make something happen I can't leave. I feel like I need to stay. 
COUNSELOR: It just seems like you have something very specific in mind. I mean this specific idea...
PATIENT: I just almost had an anxiety attack.
COUNSELOR: What?
PATIENT: I just almost had an anxiety attack.
COUNSELOR: What, why?
PATIENT: Because I'm tired and it was so dark in here and it got too dark and I just listened to (inaudible at 0:32:33.7) see myself talking (inaudible). I had chocolate and espresso before I came here so that's probably why.
COUNSELOR: You had, it was, it was happening as you began with you...
PATIENT: No as we were finished.
COUNSELOR: As you started talking or as I started talking.
PATIENT: As you started talking. Maybe just because I know that I have all this inside of me and I want, I want, I want to birth it. I want to put it out and I feel blocked to do it because I don't necessarily understand why or how. And, um...
COUNSELOR: Well I just, what I was going to say is, is, is, is that it seems like you have very, you say you want, you want to birth it, it seems like you have very specific little children in there.
PATIENT: Um hmm.
COUNSELOR: It's, it's, it's, a lot of the time when you speak you speak in very general terms, success and fear, but now you spoke about very, it's like they're, they were material it's like I could see what you were talking about. And it sounded like there were real kind of little ideas not little I mean...
PATIENT: Yeah no I'm with you. I understand it.
COUNSELOR: ...little children not the ideas were little. That already they are [two kind of] (ph) 0:33:41.8.
PATIENT: Well I think I'd be a good choreographer because maybe I'm, I can see myself making this movie because I can see like the colors, and the way that I would shoot it. I really have that inside of me. and, but yet because I feel like maybe it's too wild of an idea that I think that I can just all of the sudden shoot this and do this, but I kind of sometimes do. I feel like I can gather people together I feel like I can do this.
COUNSELOR: I think now thinking about this almost anxiety attack that you had, and I'm thinking, maybe it feels dangerous for you to even put those ideas out. So the moment you put those ideas out it felt so dangerous (inaudible).
PATIENT: Yeah the whole room started getting thick and I was like...
COUNSELOR: What was I going to do with it? Am I going to kill your ideas? 
PATIENT: Maybe.
COUNSELOR: Like am I going to be (inaudible) or not take it seriously or think it's stupid.
PATIENT: I think that might be true.
COUNSELOR: (inaudible at 0:34:46.6).
PATIENT: I think you're right. I think you're right about that. Because I really feel like and see again see like my mind just said I was ready tell you something and my mind said, "He's going to think you're just crazy." That's what my mind told me but it's like I really think that I could, that if I made a movie, like if I made like even maybe a 20,000 dollar movie -because the guys made the Celebration in Demark for I think 10,000 dollar or whatever and I'm trying to get their quota because they made these rules of how to make a film that liberated them because it was they were able to do it with what the resources they had. Now what if I use their quota and it inspired me, so maybe I can do the same thing.
COUNSELOR: Try to get what exactly?
PATIENT: Well they made a list of like ways to shoot a film. They were anti-Hollywood and anti all this big production.
COUNSELOR: Oh right there were a whole group of filmmakers there.
PATIENT: Yeah, and, and they did this thing and the Celebration impacted major markets in a way that no other film has in a while because it was done so inexpensively. You know Sling Blade they are doing it over and over with all these movies. I don't know how much they spent on Sling Blade but, it's irrelevant. But the point is, is that I think if I made the movie and actually focused all my energy on it and was brave enough to make a movie, I'd never look back. I think I would shoot off and never look back. And I believe that inside of me. I don't think I'd ever, ever have to look back. If I can find it within me to gather all the resources together to actually make the film. I really don't believe I would, because I think that I have a unique vision and I think that I could do it. I think that I could make it happen and I think that people would buy it. Because I think I understand things innately. Like just I understand things innately like trends and feelings in society. Like I'll start feeling something and all of the sudden I'll see it in a lot of different places. 0:36:26.3
COUNSELOR: Um hmm.
PATIENT: I think a lot of people have that ability. But I think the reason we have it is because we're all immersed in the same things together and we allow it to flow through us and then we process it. and, and, we can feel maybe what we decide and there's a quote, I'm sure you probably know it and I'm not going to quote it exactly because I can't remember but "The wise man is man who realizes that what is within his heart is within all hearts" or whatever it's kind of like that. You know what I mean? And I think it's those things that I understand and that's why I'd make a good film. I'm like selling you like I'm at Miramax and you're like, you're like supposed to be like my I don't know counselor and I'm sitting here (inaudible at 0:37:03.5) I'm like selling a movie to you. But you know...
COUNSELOR: Well I'll go see it.
PATIENT: But I'm sure that some movies are sold. That's what people do they sit in offices and explain their ideas and then people buy them.
COUNSELOR: But I'm sure that, that partly of how they're done is that somebody is having an idea, just following it, just following it.
PATIENT: Yeah. Because my whole thing is like I've had too many people take too many steps to get somewhere. Not that you don't have to go through the work and do the work, but they build on too much and then I find myself getting caught in that same trap and that's why I feel like maybe I'm just trying to do too many things, see you do this go to school do that. Well all these things are distracting me from the things inside of me that I need to give birth to, right? But this isn't really this is empowering it actually, because I'm having a conversation with you that I haven't ever had before, saying things that I haven't really said. So that's good, but.
COUNSELOR: Actually let's stop.
PATIENT: Yep, because I late and you weren't so.
COUNSELOR: So is this a good time for you? 
PATIENT: Um hmm.
COUNSELOR: So shall we just keep that?
PATIENT: Um hmm.
COUNSELOR: Like next week 12:30, Wednesday?
PATIENT: Um hmm. Do you have any culminating thoughts about this, I know we have to stop but like...
COUNSELOR: Any what?
PATIENT: Like culmination any thoughts about our experience today.
COUNSELOR: Do you think you, you kind of feel a need for me to summarize it now?
PATIENT: Yeah I do. I always feel that way. It makes me feel better.
COUNSELOR: Like what?
PATIENT: I don't know do you have any thoughts or any things like I can focus on or any thoughts about where we're going or what's happening or anything like that? 0:38:31.1a
COUNSELOR: I have many thoughts. I can try to say or think what is, what will not take too long and, have value. Well, like what I, what I, what I'm staying with that, that the strongest image I'm going to be left with after you go off here is this birthing thing is that, this really seem, children you're talking about both metaphorically and, and realistically you're talking about children. The both two, two examples that you gave me are about children who are trying to meet their parents or their mother again and make some kind of need (inaudible at 0:39:24.8).
PATIENT: Yeah that's kind of what I was thinking.
COUNSELOR: So this is something that's, that's in my mind now.
PATIENT: Uh huh, that's interesting.
COUNSELOR: But, but the idea of kind of birthing ideas and the anxiety that it brings to you. That it's a scary thing.
PATIENT: That would make since why I have so much anxiety at school because school brings up all these feelings...
COUNSELOR: You don't have to understand everything today you know?
PATIENT: Yeah you're right. I'm going to go though.
COUNSELOR: You just pay me.
PATIENT: Yeah I need to pay you.
COUNSELOR: For the last time and for this time.
PATIENT: Yes 20 dollars right?
COUNSELOR: Yep.
PATIENT: Okay.
COUNSELOR: Okay.
PATIENT: What else?
COUNSELOR: Well that's one thing and the other thing is that I don't want you to be nervous again.
PATIENT: I never said (inaudible).
COUNSELOR: Right.
PATIENT: I've always paid for it up front.
COUNSELOR: Okay so, if you have, if there is some time you can just sit outside until [about here] (ph).
PATIENT: Yeah I don't today because I've got to run to school and I have eaten today.
COUNSELOR: Okay.
PATIENT: Except for that chocolate I mean I really need to get some food. I'm going to feel sick. 
COUNSELOR: Now I think, thank you because you've been (inaudible at 0:40:34.9) two times. You need to know I think I told you that but you need to know I don't get the singles (ph).
PATIENT: No I know. 
COUNSELOR: So.
PATIENT: Okay thank you very much.
COUNSELOR: Alright. So I'll see you next week.
PATIENT: Next Wednesday at 12:30.
COUNSELOR: Right.
PATIENT: Okay great. Have a great week.
COUNSELOR: Bye.
PATIENT: Bye.
END TRANSCRIPT
