<font size="4"><b>Exposure</b></font>

<b>DESCRIPTION OF THE STRATEGY</b>


Since the 1960s and 1970s, it increasingly has been
recognized and accepted that the common ingredient
of many, if not most, behavioral treatments that
affect anxiety is exposure to anxiety-provoking stimuli.
Through repeated prolonged exposure to the offending
agent, whether situation, event, person, sensation,
or place, anxiety, fear, and other intense, associated
negative emotions are reduced. In layman terms, exposure
is essentially similar to "Facing one's fear" or
"Getting back on the horse." No matter what idiom is
used, the implication remains the same: Persons are
exposed to that which makes them feel afraid, and
through facing such fears repeatedly, the reaction of
anxiety is reduced.


Although anxiety is a naturally occurring phenomenon
and is a normal and adaptive experience in genuinely
threatening situations (i.e., it possesses survival
value), when anxiety and fear occur within an anxiety
disorder, it represents an overly intense, maladaptive,
and inappropriate response to what would commonly
be deemed a benign threat by others. In this fashion,
anxiety-disordered individuals are reacting to nonthreatening
or benign situations as if they were indeed
genuinely threatening. Their perceptions facilitate a
belief of threat where either one does not exist or
the level of reaction is unwarranted. In fact, these perceptions
guide reactions that are maladaptive and
misplaced, since they represent inappropriately timed
overreactions. Many anxiety-disordered individuals
react in this fashion frequently enough so that they
appear generally hypervigilant, which frequently
leads to needing significantly less "threat" to react with
anxiety and fear than their nonanxious counterparts
(i.e., they are primed to react). In most anxiety disorders,
this leads to a distinct and pervasive pattern of

[p. <i>289</i>]

The basic principle of exposure operates exactly
on this notion that the overreaction to the stimulus
is maintained by continued avoidance and escape.
Repeated, prolonged exposure to the stimulus, when
combined with prevention of escape and avoidance,
sometimes known as <i>response prevention</i>, puts the
individual in contact with the realistic information
about it, rather than the imagined information that has
previously been encoded based upon negative reactions.
When the stimulus is faced and the feared consequences
of remaining in its presence do not occur,
repeatedly, new evidence and information can be
gathered about its realistic level of threat, and reappraisals
can be formed. As the stimulus is repeatedly
encountered and the feared consequences continue
to not occur, the stimulus becomes viewed as less
and less threatening, finally extinguishing the fear.
Extinction of fear is typically possible only after
habituation to the stimulus occurs. Such habituation
process is akin to getting used to something over time,
and in the case of anxiety and fear, it is like spending
time with something that is thought initially to be dangerous
until it is proven otherwise over time (e.g.,
after spending increasing amounts of time with a dog,
the dog phobic comes to realize that it will not bitea
common fear amongst dog phobicsand the dog
begins to take on more realistic levels of threat).


Exposure can occur in several ways. The single
most effective exposure method is in vivo, or live,
exposure, where the individual is faced with the offending
stimulus in reality. The closer the stimulus is to the
real feared stimulus, the better the result of habituation
and extinction will be. Direct experience is indeed
best in providing contradictory evidence to threat
appraisal and fear conditioning, and repeated, prolonged
in vivo exposure seems especially potent in
reducing anxiety reactions. Nonetheless, all aspects
of fear may not be conducive for live exposure, such
as death, AIDS, cancer, harm or violence, and so on.
For these kinds of typically unavailable stimuli, in-imagination
or fantasy exposures can be used for
practical and ethical reasons. In-imagination exposure
typically entails exposing the individual to feared or
objectionable thoughts, images, or impulses, repeatedly.
Individuals with such internal or mentally objectionable
stimuli often attempt control of their thoughts
and feelings in an effort to reduce contact with unwanted
material. All of the best evidence from thought suppression
research suggests that such escape and
avoidance have the paradoxical effect of increasing
the occurrence and intensity of unwanted mental
events. Much as in real-life escape and avoidance, the
anxiety-disordered individual becomes hypervigilant,
or especially sensitive to certain unwanted thought
content; paradoxically, by monitoring for this content,
it occurs more frequently.


Because most people have all sorts of thoughts and
images go through their minds, people who monitor
for, or search for, undesirable materials will find them.
Unfortunately, once found, such individuals tend to
react overly negatively to the content and are typically
driven to try to undo, or compensate, for the content.
Such mental, compensatory or self-protective behavior
is akin to escape and avoidance, in that it consistently
supports the individual's perceptions about
what is good and bad, or threatening or not. As in the
case of live avoidance and escape, mental efforts
as such maintain the anxiety sparked by unwanted
thoughts. Exposure by loop-tape is often used in conjunction
with exposure in imagination to reduce the
amount an individual is able to distract from or avoid
the cognitive exposure task, whether intentionally or
not. Following basic human self-preservative functioning,
it is known that when an individual does
not engage in flight-or-fight behaviors in response to
threat (whether actual or imagined), the common
next-response mode is one of disconnecting, or disassociating,
from the experience. Therefore, it is not
unusual for individuals who are engaged in exposure
to report or experience that their minds are wandering
or not remaining with the provocative stimulus. Overt,
live exposure is harder to inadvertently escape or

[p. <i>290</i>]

The exposure principle is, furthermore, built upon the
biological understanding that anxiety is self-limiting;
that is, it cannot indefinitely continue. It is physiologically
impossible to remain highly aroused and activated
indefinitely. In fact, high arousal usually cannot
be maintained for more than an hour or two. When
individuals are faced with a feared stimulus and they
do not avoid or escape it, the experienced anxiety will
continue for some time until it gradually begins to
decline after feared consequences do not occur or they
become accustomed to the sensations that accompany
the experience. Such gradual but predictable decline
in anxiety is what drives the natural habituation process,
which, when repeated, leads to extinction of the fear
reaction. All exposure techniques operate on this
knowledge that if the individual remains within
the feared situation sufficiently, then anxiety will
decrease and return toward a more normal level of
arousal. It has, however, been debated whether the
individual should face the complete, total fear nonstop
until all reactivity to the stimulus has seized
or whether a gradual series of approximations of the
complete fear is as effective. Two variations of exposure
seem to dominate this behavior modification
technique, namely, flooding or gradual, hierarchical
exposure. While both variations ask individuals to
face their fear, they differ in how the technique is
applied. In flooding, the individual is exposed for long
periods of time to stimuli that evoke high levels of
anxiety until such fear peaks and begins to decline.
Graduated, hierarchical exposure, on the other hand,
builds on the premise that new learning about threat is
best facilitated by incremental, successive approximations
of the ultimate fear. Therefore, gradual exposure
does not start with the worst fear, but a lesser approximation
of it that typically starts at half the strength of
the ultimate fear and slowly works successively up
a hierarchy of increasingly challenging stimuli that
culminate with the ultimate fear.


<b>RESEARCH BASIS</b>


The research shows that therapist-assisted exposure
is more effective than self-directed exposure and
computer-assisted exposure. This knowledge delineates
the importance of clearly demonstrating what
the individual is supposed to do in the exposure and
also offers better checks on both intentional and inadvertent
avoidance and escape during exposure (both
interfere with habituation and extinction). Guided mastery
is broadly thought to be more useful than merely
assisting in planning what exposures the individual
is to do.


In addition, complete response prevention is better
than partial or no response prevention. Avoidance,
escape, or any kind of distraction or dissociation all
interfere with the habituation process by reinforcing
that the stimulus is to be feared; the individual's perceptions
cannot begin to change until the individual
at least acts as though the stimulus is nonthreatening
(i.e., remains in its presence fully). Only when completely
open to the stimulus can the individual begin
to fully incorporate information about the stimulus
when the individual is "nondefended."


Last, in-imagination exposure will enhance the
effects of in vivo exposure. It is not thought, however,
that in-imagination exposure alone to the consequences
of not protecting oneself from feared consequences in
vivo is effective. Experiencing anxiety while "undefended"
is superior, although it is not always possible
to experience all scenarios in real life. In-imagination
exposure can also be enhanced with real variables
of the fear present (e.g., performing imaginal exposures
around death and dying in a mortuary or
graveyard).


<b>RELEVANT TARGET
POPULATIONS AND EXCEPTIONS</b>


All anxiety disorders have today been treated effectively
with exposure techniques. Commonly available,
exposure-based treatment manuals exist for specific
phobias, panic disorder with or without agoraphobia,
social phobia, obsessive-compulsive disorder, generalized
anxiety disorder, and posttraumatic stress disorder.
In addition, many spectrum conditions, such as
body dysmorphic disorder, are amenable to exposure
regiments. For younger children, who may not have
full insight into the irrationality of their fears, exposure
may necessarily occur indirectly within the context of

[p. <i>291</i>]

<b>COMPLICATIONS</b>


Clinical depression is known to interfere with the
habituation process, especially between sessions. While
the individual may habituate in session, there can
sometimes appear to be no carryover of new learning
between sessions. This will ultimately interfere with
the extinction of fear. Depression can further inhibit
the individual from attending to all of the cues and
information central to reappraisal of feared stimuli.
Therefore, it is centrally important that severity of
depression be controlled to manage its potential influence
on outcome.


While most anxiety-disordered individuals recognize,
at some level, the irrationality of their fears, some do
not. When individuals do not have insight into the
nature of their fears, exposure may not be effective
and should not be implemented, for ethical and humane
reasons. Psychoeducation and medications may be
useful in facilitating insight into irrational fears and
the effects of anxiety.


Furthermore, personality disorders are thought
to sometimes interfere with the treatment of anxiety.
There are likely multiple reasons for this phenomenon,
but suffice it to say that if the individual can
focus on the anxiety without getting too focused on
personality symptoms, treatment can be quite effective.
A clear treatment contract may be required to
keep exposure treatment on track in such cases.


<b>CASE ILLUSTRATION</b>


"Sue" was a 28-year-old, married, unemployed
woman engaged in a broad range of avoidant and
compulsive behaviors. Most predominantly, she
executed extensive checking rituals that were aimed at
relieving obsessive fears that she, by her thoughts or
actions, would be responsible for the death of other
people. She was also intensely afraid of dying herself.
These pervasive obsessions left her practically unable
to properly care for herself and her child. In addition,
she was grossly impaired in her ability to perform
daily household chores, such as grocery shopping,
cleaning, and cooking. She was unable to derive enjoyment
from listening to music or watching television
because she associated certain words, people, and
noises with death, dying, and other particular fears.
Sue's major complaint was excessive checking and
avoidance behaviors, all aimed at preventing disease
or death.


At the time of the intake, a thorough behavioral
analysis was performed in an effort to define target
behaviors precisely and to identify conditions maintaining
such target behaviors. This assessment followed
a standardized A-B-C cognitive-behavioral
model. Using this integrative approach, antecedents
(A), or stimulus or setting events, were established.
Three kinds of behaviors (B) were observed and
measured: (1) covert cognitive (thinking)attributions,
expectations, beliefs, self-talk, images, and so on;
(2) overt respondent (physical)physiological changes
occurring within the body; and (3) overt operant
(acting)"voluntary" behavior, whether excess or
deficit. Finally, consequences (C), or events that occur
during and after a particular behavior, were estimated
and explored. This assessment approach was selected
as part of a strong effort to more completely understand
how Sue's thoughts, feelings, physiology,
behavior, and environment interacted to create her
individual experience of obsessive-compulsive disorder
(OCD). As an outcome measure, the Yale-Brown
Obsessive-Compulsive Scale was selected because it
provides the most comprehensive narrow-band assessment
of OCD.


Treatment involved a systematic hierarchy that
exposed Sue to moderately provocative triggers first,
and later to progressively more disturbing scenarios.
With each level of exposure, she was repeatedly
exposed to the same trigger until her reactivity to
the stimulus was reduced by at least 50%. Once she
achieved habituation to one level of the hierarchy,
exposure rose to the next level, so that she was systematically
exposed to increasingly difficult OCD
triggers after experiencing reduced distress to the previous
trigger. As each trigger situation became less

[p. <i>292</i>]

<i>Johan Rosqvist</i>


<i><b>See also:</b> Exposure and Response Prevention (Vol. II);
Extinction (Vol. III); Flooding (Vol. I)</i>


<b>Suggested Readings</b>


Baer, L., &amp; Minichiello, W. E. (1998). Behavior therapy for
obsessive-compulsive disorder. In M. A. Jenike, L. Baer, &amp;
W. E. Minichiello (Eds.), <i>Obsessive-compulsive disorders:
Practical management</i> (3rd ed., pp. 337-367). Boston:
Mosby.


Hersen, M. (Ed.). (2002). <i>Clinical behavior therapy: Adults
and children</i>. New York: Wiley.


Marks, I. M. (1987). <i>Fears, phobias, and rituals: Panic, anxiety,
and their disorders</i>. Oxford, UK: Oxford University
Press.


McLean, P. D., Whittal, M. L., Thordarson, D. S., Taylor, S.,
Schting, I., Koch, W. J., et al. (2001). Cognitive versus
behavior therapy in the group treatment of obsessive-compulsive
disorder. <i>Journal of Consulting and Clinical
Psychology, 69</i>(2), 205-214.


McLean, P. D., &amp; Woody, S. R. (2001). <i>Anxiety disorders in
adults: An evidence-based approach to psychological treatment</i>.
Oxford, UK: Oxford University Press.


Purdon, C. (1999). Thought suppression and psychopathology.
<i>Behaviour Research and Therapy, 37</i>, 1029-1054.


Spiegler, M. D., &amp; Guevremont, D. C. (1993). Brief/graduated
exposure therapy: Systematic desensitisation and in vivo
exposure. In <i>Contemporary behavior therapy</i> (2nd ed.,
pp. 194-225). Pacific Grove: Brooks/Cole.


Spiegler, M. D., &amp; Guevremont, D. C. (1993). Prolonged/intense
exposure therapy: Flooding and implosive therapy.
In <i>Contemporary behavior therapy</i> (2nd ed., pp. 226-250).
Pacific Grove: Brooks/Cole.


Steketee, G. (1999). <i>Therapist protocol: Overcoming obsessive-compulsive
disorder: A behavioral and cognitive protocol
for the treatment of OCD</i>. Oakland: New Harbinger.

