Transcript of Audio File:
______________________________________________________________________________
BEGIN TRANSCRIPT:
THERAPIST: Hi. Come on in.
CLIENT: Hello. How are you?
THERAPIST: Good, thank you.
CLIENT: I got your e-mail. Either of those times is fine.
THERAPIST: Okay.
CLIENT: So, whatever is easier.
THERAPIST: Great. If we could 7:45, that would be great.
CLIENT: Sure. I survived the holiday.
(00:01:05)
THERAPIST: Yeah.
CLIENT: My dad's actually who's interesting. He had a lady friend over who was very nice. Usually any lady person he sees is twenty years plus his junior and it's always very weird and they are not sociable and ... this woman was normal. So, kind of nice to see him happy, actually see him ... I don't know if he seemed perfect. He is engaging in someone who's interesting to him. And she was like speaking to us and friendly, so that was nice. Mom's rings never spoke of. She was wearing one (inaudible 00:00:01:52) but not the other. I just didn't say anything. But then the families are so rude sometimes and they say, for example during dinner, they haven't met Jamie, which is another story. Because I'm like, "I'm never bringing him over there." Like it would raise severe anxiety meeting them and it will never happen. They were asking about him and then they just ... this is one of the reasons why I don't want to bring him. Is that they have no filter and what they say is just completely inappropriate. So, they like, "What type of Indian is he again?" I'm like, "East Indian." And they're like, "Is that with the dot or with the feather?" I'm just like ... so I'm like, "East Indian." And they're like, "Dot or feather?" I'm like, "From India Indian." So then they're like, "Oh, you got to be careful they beat their wives."
(00:02:55)
CLIENT: I have a really hard time with conversation like that. I can't help (inaudible 00:00:03:00) respond like ... with they're smart-ass kind of or just sit there and just like shutdown and it's completely like obvious that I'm upset. And then like my mom never says anything and I don't expect her to cause a scene, but maybe a, you know ... Susan, her boyfriend's mother, said like maybe not appropriate for dinner conversation. And then she starts telling about how she watched a program and I'm like, "What program were you watching?" She's like, "This American married an Indian person and the Indian person didn't like her family so they burnt her." It's just all very annoying. It makes me partially feel kind of bad but I don't really care sometimes. Because I'm like, "Look who we're dealing with." But I'm like, "What if I go (inaudible 00:00:03:50)?" Then they were talking about gay people. I don't know. Just the stuff they say or just like they'll be facing God someday.
(00:04:02)
But I can't ... I end up sitting there looking like I have a sour puss look on my face. But, yeah, I'm like, "How do you politely tell someone when you're in their home they're being really offensive?" You know? I'm like, yeah. So that was Christmas Eve. And then I went over there for breakfast and then they were fine.
THERAPIST: What changed?
CLIENT: I didn't really speak to them that much. They were playing with their gifts. This was like dinner, like a formal dinner at the dining table Christmas Eve. And then Christmas day everyone was just like scattered throughout the house and I didn't have to see them as much. But, yeah, I mean, it didn't deeply upset me but they always make comments like that. So I don't know. I just ... you have no idea. And then after we spoke last week where we were talking about like, "What did I long for from them?" Like just a normal ... like I feel like I'm almost jealous of my friends that she can have like dinner and coffee with her parents and their significant other and have some sort of normal conversation.
(00:05:23)
CLIENT: And then I'm like, "I have to deal with this possibly as dinner conversation." And it's not something that I want to do. (chuckle) So I don't do it. But, if it were just a simple ... like you can't even ... I mean even my dad ... My dad ... well he can misbehave at times, but he ... like they just can't have normal conversation with anyone. They just talk about cars and money and ... I think about mom's side, like you see her ... it's like the full package, you got the whole family and then you got them talking about like the most obscure things. So ... yeah. And I mean I haven't, not that it matters that Jamie has'nt met them, but I've never had him meet them because of that.
(00:06:18)
THERAPIST: Mm-hm.
CLIENT: And the other things too like, he usually doesn't celebrate holidays here if he's working a lot and if he's in a different state. But I feel like I almost choose to not celebrate holiday with him, but at the same time I'll have to spend with my family. Look, if he was up here I don't know what I would do. I feel like I would still really be reluctant to have him come to any holidays. And I would like at some point that's probably going to have change.
THERAPIST: Why? If they're going to be that inappropriate.
CLIENT: I feel like I have heart. So I know that like at some point I'm going to want to start spending more holidays with him. But, then I still have this obligation to my family. So I don't know what to ... bring him, don't bring him ... (chuckle) Leave them? It's really hard now. I have them divided a little bit which is fine, but. So. And then he had to work Christmas day but only till noon. So, he went to Memphis to have dinner with friends and one of his friend's family's then. That was great, I'm glad that he didn't have to celebrate alone. But then it's kind of sad because I'm like, "I don't even know if I would invite you to my Christmas because I find them so embarrassing."
(00:07:38)
THERAPIST: Mm-hm.
CLIENT: Then I felt like sad for myself and kind of sad for him. But I ... you know like leave him alone at the end of the day but ... I don't feel like it should be such a anxiety driven thing to invite someone home for the holidays.
THERAPIST: With your family it is.
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: I mean I can understand why you might not to bring him if, you know your mother's boyfriend is so inappropriate.
CLIENT: Right.
THERAPIST: Not a nice environment to bring someone into.
CLIENT: Right. And so ... yeah. And then just started harping on, "Why do people think like this? Why are they so closed minded?" And I then I find myself like getting upset and then I'm like, "Oh, we're different." Dealing with much different people here, so probably shouldn't take too much stock in it, but. I don't know it's just rude. Like ... but then I feel like I almost give them an excuse to just like, "She can't even like comprehend why that may upset someone." She just thinks that that's like normal talk.
(00:08:55)
THERAPIST: Mm-hm.
CLIENT: Then our brother's like, "Oh, why don't you just like play along?" Or she said, "Like are you giving gifts with him?" and I said, "No." And she's like, "That's such shame that because he doesn't celebrate Christmas he's not going to get you a Christmas gift." I'm like, "Well, no. We decided to not do gifts because we usually take a trip." And then my brother is like, "Why don't you just say that you're doing gifts?" Well I'm not going to lie and like give into them. But then I feel like I can't be myself because then they're (inaudible 00:00:09:30) saying like, "Yeah, we did gifts." And make something up. But I feel like that's something my mom would do. Or I'm like honest and I can't really accept the answer. I don't know it's like she feels bad for me or something.
(00:09:45)
CLIENT: And like I usually end up feeling like, "I just want to be left alone. Just leave me alone and let me celebrate my holiday however I want."
THERAPIST: Well you feel like that and don't because you go there. So by going there you're asking not to be left alone.
CLIENT: Right. Yeah. And I know that like I don't want to be alone, but I ... I don't know. Then I'm just like, "Can't you just be respectful?" But ... and then I just ... like I find myself in these situations like I just don't know how to deal with people and then I end up like not dealing with them, literally, not being seen with them. Or like being there and not dealing with them which I feel like can be worse at times. Because I feel like I'm just like letting them say whatever or just ... I don't know that's not right either.
(00:10:52)
THERAPIST: By not being with them?
CLIENT: By not being with them. But actually that's not right for myself to just let them say whatever and kind of ignore how I'm feeling. Well like my mom won't even ... I don't know, like it bothers me that she doesn't even say anything. Like I feel like as crude and weird as my dad is and even though he doesn't really approve that I'm not dating like a white person. I feel like if someone ever, like said something like that in front of me, like he would say something. Yeah. Like she doesn't even like privately apologize, like for her being here.
THERAPIST: I guess for her to apologize she'd have to realize there is something wrong to begin with.
CLIENT: True.
(00:11:51)
CLIENT: Yeah. But it wasn't as bad as it could've been. (chuckle) I'm happy its over. I'm not doing it again. So, yeah, I'm glad that the holidays with them, both them, go back to (inaudible  00:00:12:14). Not seeing them for a while. So ... That's it. (chuckle)
(00:12:25)
CLIENT: I don't know what else.
THERAPIST: I feel like my comment about she would have to realize there's something wrong, I feel like that's where you felt like you, you don't know where else to go with them.
CLIENT: Well I think that's partly, she doesn't ever realize that anything is wrong. So ... There are a few times where I've tried to make her realize that something's wrong with a situation or a random situation and she doesn't. So that's kind of like a ... one of those things that like I have to learn how to deal with or ... there will be no conversation with telling her like that I'm upset. She doesn't like open up to it, so. Yeah.
(00:13:35)
CLIENT: And it's like (inaudible 00:00:13:37). Which is a lie. Sad, but. Like she just goes about her ... like she's literally in just la la land. Which, I don't know, good for her she's happy. But she doesn't, I don't know, like I said before like kind of like take responsibility or just have the ability to see that there's a problem or I don't know. Usually I can tell by the look on someone's face if they go from like talking to like not talking and then just like eating with their head down and then not really commenting on anything, that something maybe wrong. But she doesn't ... I don't know why.
(00:14:30)
THERAPIST: And you really, really want her to notice?
CLIENT: Yeah. Well I think ... I don't know I feel like even for her like I'm probably ... like last year I ended up saying like a couple of things at Christmas just because they were harping on me about being like in five places at one time and then I ended up being like, "Well this is a product of a divorced family. I didn't choose it." And then everyone got really quiet and heads went down and then she was kind of like, "That was a little rude." I'm like, "Okay. Well I think it's rude when you're harping on me constantly, like why aren't you coming for dinner? We were planning on you for dinner." And it's like you can tell them something and if they don't want to hear that then they don't ... like they were complaining last year that I wasn't there for dinner. But I told them that I wasn't coming for dinner. But they still planned for me to be there for dinner. And so it ended up being like this big thing where they're like, "We made extra food for you." There's extra food anyways, but. And it just went on and on and on at the dinner table. And then like they started saying like, "Oh why don't you spend less time at your dads and come here." And then like I just couldn't take them anymore so I ended up saying something. And it was not received well.
(00:15:43)
CLIENT: And I feel like the way in which I said it was not very nice and my tone was probably very nasty. But, um ... Yeah. So I would think that like my mom would try to pickup on things, so, I don't know, just sometimes that doesn't happen. And then I feel bad because I feel like I'm in someone else's home but I probably should have ... I don't know. If they want to have some conversations that's fine if I don't agree with them, but I feel like when it involves like me or someone that I'm seeing, that's very rude. So ...
(00:16:34)
CLIENT: I don't know how to deal with them. I never know like what the fine line is between like, being like polite and just not saying something and then like saying something because I find that it's upsetting. Cause I feel like there's no like, Gee, when you said that I thought it was, you know pretty hurtful." There's like me like sucking it up until I hit like a boiling point and then like spitting up like a nasty comment. So ... I better not let that happen. Besides it's just like getting out of there in time (chuckle) and then like going home or whatever.
THERAPIST: You think?
CLIENT: You learn. So ... I just feel like really different from them because you can't have a conversation about anything normal. And I guess this goes back to like where I like I get kind of like upset about like longing for some normal ... what I feel is normal conversation. They're just talking about most ... like the most ridiculous things ever. So ... Like it's just so weird. Like there's no like ... Never "How's work? How's life? What have you been doing?" Just complaining.
(00:18:08)
CLIENT: And then when I get upset I end up feeling like I'm complaining. So, I don't know, I'm going to end up feeling like it's me or I could end up just like them. In that way.
THERAPIST: Well it seems like you can escape somehow from being like them. Like if you just sort tell them, "Oh, Jamie and I did exchange gifts." Or whatever then you feel you're just like your mom. Like it seems like you feel like you can easily fall in a trap by being like them in some way?
CLIENT: Yeah. Like if I said that I did exchange gifts or something. Cause then I feel just like little white lies to appease someone. I don't know. And then I feel like you always get caught somehow. Cause they could be like, "Oh let me see what he got you." And then I'll be like ... you know and then I just ... I don't want live like a life where I'm fibbing to them to give them what they want to hear because they're going to be difficult with me. Like I don't think that that's really fair for me to have to do. Just to like not have them say nasty things or shut them up or whatever.
(00:19:40)
CLIENT: But ... There's just a lot ... I mean, no ... I feel bad that I'm like so embarrassed of these people but they're just so loud. Like I feel like from the outside or if someone took me home to these people I'd be like, "Oh, dear gosh, like I could possibly be marrying into this? Like, I don't know." They're just so loud and crude and classless is the only word I can think of. And they're like that. Like when I was like leaving to go to like the dinners, like they're like that, it's not a matter of them feeling extra comfortable around them. They're like that around everyone. And it's really embarrassing I think.
(00:20:34)
CLIENT: So ... Yeah. I guess I partially feel like, I don't know I could be judged if I took him home too.
THERAPIST: And Jamie would judge you.
CLIENT: I feel like there would be judging always. But I mean I don't really care what they think of ... like I know that a person that I will like or be in a relationship with will never be the person that they would find fitting for me. And I'm okay with that. But I feel more like Yeah, Jamie would. Not even judge me personally, but just like, "Is this something I want to be involved in?"
THERAPIST: And what's this?
CLIENT: Like this family. And like these holidays. That's like something he and I have talked about and he's just like, "No, it doesn't matter." Well if you haven't met these people. And I feel like most people like don't encounter people like that. Or maybe they do, but I feel ... like when I'm in those situations I feel like, like I'm not the only one. But like very small percentage of people have to deal with a whole clan of people like this and not just, you know like one person in the family.
(00:22:17)
CLIENT: I just really feel embarrassed and then I feel really guilty that I'm so embarrassed. But I'm like the whole thing is just like ... Mom's living in the boyfriend's mother's house. Like they act like kids. You got they're mom who's like this crude obnoxious woman and then you've got like one brother who's like kind of crude but not too bad. The other brother is nice but he's like handicapped. Then you've got the dad who just like drinks and like smokes up a storm. I don't know.
THERAPIST: It's striking how much you feel like they're your family. Like it seems like you feel like they're part of your family and not your mother's boyfriend's family.
CLIENT: Well interesting, yes that you said that. So my brother and I are having a conversation about my brother telling me to like be more open to my mother's boyfriend and honestly he's ... I personally don't like him as a person, but I do think that he makes my mom happy. And like that makes me happy, like ... but my brother sees him, I guess for just (inaudible 00:00:23:37) like I do see them as family, but I feel that that's because I can't ... like there is no more relationship with my mom. Or even a relationship with my mom and them, it's like the whole thing and I don't ... I guess I think that I don't think of them as family, but I do. Maybe if I let (inaudible 00:00:23:59) meet all of them. But you can't like ... I feel like meet one and not the other. But my brother is saying like why don't you be more open to him and I was saying how it bothers me when my mom says we love you all the time. I don't know if I brought that up in here.
(00:24:14)
CLIENT: My brother is just like, "He's our family now." And I was just like, "Well no he's not." And I'm not saying that to like mean but like he's my mom's boyfriend and he's a nice enough guy and I'm happy that she's happy and maybe at some point I'll feel like closer to him but as a friend not like ... he's not you know my new dad or even family like I would think of like a cousin. He's just another ... to me he's just like another person that's important to her. But I feel like ... I don't feel like I'm part of their family but I feel like I'm stuck with them like you're stuck with family if that makes any sense. So ...
THERAPIST: When you present them can you believe my family kind of ... you know on some level they're not your family?
CLIENT: True. Right. Yeah. I mean I don't ... and I don't ... like when I think of family, even like from the simplest task of like making my Christmas card list like they don't come up on the family side. And that's just like my way of thinking. But I really do feel like I'm stuck with them.
(00:25:34)
CLIENT: Well if my mom can't ... I can't be like mom, "Let's go out and do this." Like she has bring her boyfriend and that's rare, but most of the time I have to go to the house. So I don't know. It feels like she's married and like stuck in that house.
THERAPIST: She doesn't go out?
CLIENT: They go out like once in a while to do things together. But like she ... If I was like ... she works near where I live so a couple times we've been like, "Oh like why don't we get lunch?" And like, "Okay, he's going to come too." I'm like, "Why don't we get dinner after work?" "Okay, he's going to come too." So there's no doing anything just the two of them. Or a couple of times I've been up like at the mall near where they live. "Well why don't you come out and meet me?" And like, "Oh no, but you can come here after." So I think that like hurts the relationship a little bit in some respects because there's no like ‘her and I' or the chance to talk. Look they're very welcoming into me being into that family, but there's no ... I don't know, like there's no more like her ... like Krissy and her kids, Krissy and her new family, Krissy and all. It's just Krissy's with them and whoever is invited to come can.
(00:27:00)
CLIENT: I guess and that is a little bothersome. So ... Yeah. And then it's just annoying like ... I don't know I think like maybe like there's some difference on our convenient priority. But like all of that and she calls her boyfriend's parents mom and dad. Which I don't know. (inaudible 00:00:27:21). Maybe I don't know. I feel that's something I would never do and if I did it would be like ... I'm like deeply rooted in the family or I don't know. I just find it odd when she calls them mom and dad. She's known them for like four years. So ... maybe three. I just found that a little odd. But I feel like I constantly .... Like when I'm dealing with them I feel like as many of the aspects of my life feel, like I have like stuck in life. Like do I say something or do I not say something when I'm bothered. Like do I come to the holiday and make my mom happy or do I not come and then, you know I'm alone and she's upset? And I just never know how too. And I feel like I really try to go there Christmas with like a ... like as positive as I could be attitude and like, no I don't have to go to my dad's after and only go to one place and this is what I told myself I'm going to do and I'm sticking to it and I felt like a little stress was relieved because I wasn't running around that much. And then it was like fine and then dinnertime comes and then the comments start flying. And my annoyance starts to kick in.
(00:29:00)
THERAPIST: Well you don't ... you don't really want them to be like how they are?
CLIENT: Right.
THERAPIST: And you want to protest.
CLIENT: True.
THERAPIST: But you're not really sure of who's going to hear your protest.
CLIENT: Right. I mean I really can't change them but I guess I'm just a little ... I don't know I feel like in so many ways they're like try to make you comfortable to go over to their home, but then they just like spoil the whole thing by making comments like. And then they're like, "We want to meet him. We want to meet him." Do you really want to meet him because basically you said he's wife beater. Or he's like a potential wife beater. And I don't know I feel like they don't really have an interest in him and I'm not ... I feel very leery to take him over there. But I feel like at some point that needs to happen. I feel like it's getting closer and closer to that point. And ...
(00:30:22)
THERAPIST: Well what is it that you need to have happen?
CLIENT: I feel like, I don't know I feel like it just does. But if you're like dating someone and you're really close to them like they should know your family or mom. So ... I don't know. I feel like it it's just something that happens that should happen. I know that I don't have too, but ... I don't know. Then when I feel bad for her because I'm like she should known the person that I'm dating too. So ...
(00:31:28)
THERAPIST: Yeah, I guess I was struck by that like there's a certain script about how these things should go and it just has to go that way.
CLIENT: Well I think you get over it and I mean like you've been seeing someone for a while and you start to get closer like I feel like if I had relocated or what would it be like? I have to make it go, she's living with this person that I don't even really know. And I guess like on some levels like I want him to know that. Well, my mom. But then I'm not worried about him meeting my mom. I think my mom would be very nice to him, you know. She would enjoy spending time with him. But its like bringing him to that house that gives me severe anxiety. And I feel like, I don't know, another place to meet. But I feel like they're just, "You need to come to the house." I feel like when I'm saying out loud, like it sounds like less ... I feel like I feel more of the anxiety than when I'm saying it out loud. Look I feel at home, it's not that big a deal. But I think of it like ... What if I could try to make a plan, like that doesn't involve like going to visit her at the house and it feels nearly impossible.
(00:33:03)
THERAPIST: Yeah, I guess I'm struck by this statement it needs to happen.
CLIENT: I guess part of it is like, want. But under my stipulations with them behaving. Yeah. I know nothing is going to have to happen but ... maybe something that I want to happen eventually and don't know how to deal with it. Or I feel like I end up like giving him these forewarnings about what it could be like and then I actually like I make the situation seem worse than it is.
THERAPIST: I mean it sounds like you don't know. I mean they could be less insulting or they could be more insulting if they're anxious or not.
CLIENT: Right. And I guess my fear is that something will said while he's there and that ... I don't know how I would deal with that. I think that I would definitely say something at that point. But I don't know. I just perceive being very bad.
(00:34:43)
CLIENT: I just say like ... I feel like what scares me about it is they'll think that they're not being like rude or something. Asking like a question that just to me seems like really closed minded, stupid. And like sometimes it feels like they have absolutely no intention whatsoever to be like rude and it just comes off that way. So I guess I really fear that something like that will happen. And so ... And I just feel like most people like when they take someone home they're like stressing like will my parents like them and I have to stress like will he like my parents? It just seems different.
THERAPIST: Well if he liked your parents it seems like that would be a whole other set of problems because you don't or not a lot of the time. That could be a whole other set of problems.
(Laughter) (00:35:57)
CLIENT: Yeah. I guess like I'm scared of like ... well I had a boyfriend like five years ago, maybe. And we were kind of serious and I guess part of me always feels like, "Will this happen to me?" We were very different and I think I knew on many levels. So like we didn't have a future together even though we had been seeing each other for a while. And I went home to ... his family was divorced so I had met one of his sisters who I go along with very well. And then I met another one of his sisters and his father over the holidays or like after a holiday. And they were from down south and they were biggest stereotype of like southern backwoods person that you could ever imagine. And amongst the other problems that we had, but I feel like I just remembered thinking like, "This is what I'm going to have like a long-term future with him would this be what it's like?" And there were other issues that were going on but I felt like it was those thoughts that like pushed me to like really reconsider our relationship. And then like four months later we ended up breaking up. For other reasons but I feel like it was that that started like the whole process of thinking those things.
(00:37:34)
CLIENT: And so part of me is just like, "Well you were two like really different people and you probably wouldn't have been happy long-term because you were just so different or wanted different this in life." And another part of me is just like, "You're kind of being judgmental because you judged him on his family." And so, I don't know. I feel like is that going to happen with Jamie and myself? So ... I think about that frequently. And then like ... I've told like one of my friends about it and she was like, "Well you know you were ... like you and your family are nothing like Rick's family." And I'm like, "I know." But like my family is nothing like Jamie's family. Like I feel like him like seeing how they are for him, it could be like a total like, "My Gosh, what the heck is going on here?" Type of thing. I guess people are like swearing and being rude and crude and I don't know. So that worries me.
(00:38:51)
THERAPIST: But somehow you wouldn't be seen as an individual, you would be seen more as just another member of your family. You wouldn't be seen as separate.
CLIENT: Right.
THERAPIST: But I mean that's part of the problem. You don't see you're separate. And you assume that he wouldn't see you as separate either.
CLIENT: Right. And I think he does see me as separate just by like the comments that he made like when I've brought it up to him. But I just feel like I'm like guilty by association. Or maybe that's just like the way I like was raised like my family was always just really like judgmental about where you came from. So it's kind of like you marry me, you marry the whole clan. So ... I think that's more like a me problem than it is probably him.
THERAPIST: Mm-hm.
(00:39:57)
CLIENT: But ... it something that I found myself like ... I think about it a lot.
THERAPIST: Well I think there's also a part of you that doesn't want to see yourself as separate. That wants to see yourself, you know like sort of the idea that he needs to meet this family, like that this part of you.
CLIENT: Right. Yeah. I know I think like that. Because I don't ... I don't want ... like I want him to meet mom. I don't want him to meet that ... like I'm not like, "Gee some little part of me wishes that you could meet my mom's boyfriend's mom." Like you know? I don't, yeah. I don't think that.
THERAPIST: And it's not clear that that's an option because your mother definitely doesn't see herself as separate. She doesn't want to be separate.
CLIENT: Right.
THERAPIST: She wants to be embedded in that family in everyway.
(00:41:11)
CLIENT: Right. And if they asked me to do that it's probably like some of the like frustration or like anxiety comes in is because there's like there is no option to like just meet her or even her and her boyfriend. So ... I don't know. And then everything is like dependent on her but like if I want him to meet her that maybe ... that won't be option that we'll have to go the (inaudible 00:00:41:46) he meets the whole clan.
THERAPIST: Well I think that's part of protest that all this is just really, really unfair.
CLIENT: Yeah. But I feel like some of ... I don't know feel some is unfair and some is just me.
THERAPIST: What does that mean?
CLIENT: Like if I was able to ... now that I say that I'm separated, probably be like, whatever. Like, "We're going to go over here so you can meet my mom." And I'm not going to worry about if you like Susan, the boyfriend's mom or I don't want him to like her. But look I'm going to have like full faith that like you're going to see me as not one of them and you know, maybe we can laugh about it after. But ... I don't feel that. (inaudible 00:00:42:46) myself too.
(00:42:54)
CLIENT: And I guess it bothers me a little bit that like my mom can't separate herself like, at all from him.
THERAPIST: Mm-hm.
CLIENT: Like she sees a little bit of her family but she doesn't see a good portion of her family. She's lost a lot of her friends and she just has completely like, their family, their family friends, their cousins and she has nothing left that's like her own. I mean she seems happy that way. But I don't know.
THERAPIST: So in that respect she's completely separated from her environment and she's not separated from her new environment because of her old environment entirely.
CLIENT: Right. Yeah like even her, feel like she should spark some relationships like her friends and her work friends and a lot of it was done like through, like lying.
(00:44:00)
CLIENT: And like she has like this brand new family and I don't know. Well I know she cares about me, but there seems like there's no ... like she can't like her kids, herself, like it's just like she's completely without them. Like if you want to call me, you can call me. But there's never like ... she doesn't consider herself I feel like as a mom, as a girlfriend, as a friend, as a ... she's just like in that family and then if you want to join them. There's always an open invitation. I don't know what that has to do with me.
THERAPIST: Well I think it's like maybe that's what you fear. Like if you're just like, "Forget." You know mom hanging out with me anymore, I'm going to be with Jamie. Like that you will have through this new identity and leave everything behind.
CLIENT: Yeah. Of course I'm not going to wanna leave everything behind.
THERAPIST: No. I know. I mean I think that that's the fear. That you would somehow become like her and that you would leave everything behind. But you're not really sure how to hold on to the old and the new, it's not clear.
CLIENT: Right. Like I feel I can't ... like in my head I'm always like, I need to see them and be unhappy or like not see them at all. (some emotion) So, yeah I feel like it's like completely, I don't know, isolated. Or like not dealing with them. Or being with them in these situations where like I'm unhappy. So ... Well they don't like welcome an environment that like ... well my mom just won't say anything so you never know what's on her mind. But like my dad isn't welcome like environment. Well he's like, "Oh, like you're spending the holiday there. Glad you're getting to spend sometime with them." Like it's just anger, anger, anger because you're not spending it with him. The family is so horrible and no one sits by him. (crying) So it makes me feel guilty.
THERAPIST: So it's this feeling that you can't win.
CLIENT: Kind of. Well yeah, I feel like when I'm ... when I do what I want I feel like I'm ... for one I'm kind of guilty and or feel guilty and then two, like I feel I'm upsetting them. And then when I do what I think that they want then I'm just usually not very happy.
(00:46:54)
THERAPIST: We're going to need to stop for today. I will see you tomorrow.
CLIENT: Sure. 7:45.
THERAPIST: 7:45.
CLIENT: You got it. Bye.
THERAPIST: Take care. Bye, bye.
END TRANSCRIPT
