<font size="4"><b>Chapter VIII: The Woman Alcoholic</b></font>

In the over-all picture of alcoholism women are not in
themselves a separate type. They belong to all the types
the bored, the cyclothymic, the psychopaths, the stupid
yet they have many special problems because they are
women. Both physically and psychologically they have a
more difficult time than men, partly because they are more
complex and largely because society has hedged them
about with so many inhibitions. They try more desperately
than men to hide their condition and are abetted in camou-flage
by the whole structure of society, which often causes
them either to whitewash their condition with respectable
names like migraine, flu, or pneumonia, or else, if it is
forced to recognize them as alcoholics, condemns them as
worthless flotsam, a disgrace to their families.


The housewife especially finds her setting admirable for
camouflage; she can stay in her room for days at a time,
suffering from this or that. Hiding liquor is comparatively
easy and she becomes an adept at it, and even more
of an adept at using sedatives, which leave no odor on her
breath and give her the same intoxication as quantities of
alcohol. In no time she is living in such a tangle of lies and
evasions that she herself can no longer recognize the truth.
But no matter how desperately and cunningly she affects
invalidism, eventually her family will know, and so will
her friends and neighbors. Out of shame or kindness they
help her preserve the fiction, using the same evasions that

[p. <i>79</i>]

The woman in business is closer to reality. When she
falls down on the job too many times she is warned; she
loses her job and another and another; she goes down
faster, and there is no concealing the reason from herself,
even though she may say in resentment that the fault is
the jealousy of her boss or her associates. But she does
delude herself about the reasons why she went on a binge
that last time and couldn't get over it by Monday morning.
There is always a special reason and since circumstances
do not repeat themselves she is sure she will never
do it again.


The stigma that is attached to women alcoholics makes
them suffer more cruelly than men. With all our talk about
the equality of the sexes, society still expects women to be
better behaved than men. And women expect it of themselves.
A man may go off on a binge, indulge in promiscuous
sexual episodes, brawl, get dragged into the police
station, and be sorry and ashamed when it is over, but the
actual things he did leave no great scar on his ego. But
when a woman hits bottom so hard that she panhandles for
a drink and wakes up some morning in bed with a strange
man she is profoundly shocked. The hurt to her ego is so
deep that it is much more difficult for her to pick herself
up and make the effort to pull out. She cannot make herself
believe that any creature so loathsome as she is can
be reclaimed.


Then, too, women are much more likely to be driven to
alcoholism by personality disorders than men. They do
not fit so neatly into patterns, especially the family-history
pattern that characterizes so many men; their childhood
is not so often affected by the dominance of a stern, oppressive
father and a pampering mother, but they do frequently

[p. <i>80</i>]

Girls drink more now than they did a generation ago,
even a decade ago. In a recent survey of the drinking
habits of college women, the tallies showed that there were
twice as many regular drinkers as there were non-drinkers
among the juniors and seniors of a large coeducational
State university. Most of the girls began to drink when
they were seventeen. Yet in spite of this shift toward earlier
and more widespread drinking among women, I venture
to predict that these changes will strengthen rather
than do away with the taboo against women drinking to
excess. Social drinking is not an important factor in their
alcoholism, in spite of our rapidly shifting folk customs
in regard to drinking.


As the late Abraham Meyerson, the Boston psychiatrist,
put it:
<cit>
<q>
</q></cit>

If a dozen young Harvard men were to go out on a
"tear" and become drunk and create a social disturbance,
they would not be fiercely condemned. Indeed, most men
would say, "I was young myself once," a general attitude
of protection and of excuse, nay even a sort of
implicit or explicit praise for being lusty and gusty
young fellows would appear. But suppose a dozen of
their Radcliffe girl contemporaries were to carry on a
similar social exploit. A great hullabaloo would be
raised. Preachers would pound pulpits and find a new
proof of the degeneracy of the times. Editorial writers

[p. <i>81</i>]

It is this taboo, many psychiatrists believe, that keeps
down the ratio of women inebriates. In the United States
our rate is one woman alcoholic to every six men. In England
the difference is not so markedone to every two
menbut in conservative Switzerland it stands one to
every twelve and in Norway one to twenty-three. These
figures may not be too accurate, because of the fact that
so many woman alcoholics hide their affliction. In Alcoholics
Anonymous fifteen per cent of the members are
women, and when one thinks how painful it is for a woman
to brand herself openly as an alcoholic, it may well be that
their number is higher than the figure indicates.


The return to honesty is hard for all alcoholics, but it
is particularly hard for women. The big hurdle is to make
the first open admission that they are alcoholics. A story
that I encountered in the pages of the <i>A. A. Grapevine</i>,
the Alcoholics Anonymous magazine, is as vivid a picture
of that first terrible realization as I have seen. This is the
account of a young woman's shocked, affronted surprise
when she could not avoid the conclusion that this might be
the trouble.


It was a lovely spring morning last June [she wrote],
the first day of my vacation which I had set aside to do
a piece of creative work which was a joy to me. The
night before there had been a late party to celebrate
the finish of the old and the bright beginning of the
new.... I was shaky that morning, having celebrated
thoroughly, so before I started to shop for my new

[p. <i>82</i>]

At the end of the week with days beginning and ending
in the same way, I was reduced to despair and gibbering
panic. I couldn't go out in the street, let alone
ride in a bus. I was afraid to get in an elevator. I
couldn't sit in a movie for fear of screaming out loud.
Safe in the apartment the walls started moving in on
me. The long vacation yawned ahead like a dark valley
of horror. In my despair I doubted if I'd find myself
alive at the end of it, let alone well and ready for work.
There was no reality but the fight between me and my
panic and the only weapon I knew to fight it with was
a drink. I had had psychoanalysis and supposedly
should not be suffering this recurrence of panic but it
was worse than in its original form. There was no further
help to be sought from that angle. Slowly a
thought had begun to focus in my terrified mind. Could
the panic have any relationship to my drinking?


I didn't believe it for a moment but in my despair I
couldn't afford to ignore the possibility. If that were
all, then everything was simple. I'd just stop drinking
and things would straighten out.


I hated to stop drinking, of course, because I actually
enjoyed everything about it; the taste, the smell and
the effect which gave me a sense of well-being, gaiety

[p. <i>83</i>]

Usually it had been a good companion, reliable and
restrained for years, especially when I had work to do.
It indulged itself on weekends and at parties and
plagued me with hangovers, some pretty bad ones in the
last two years, but it had never interfered with a job
or made me sick for more than a holiday or Sunday. It
hadn't separated me from my friends or landed me in a
hospital. My doctor had never discussed it with me,
having no reason, and my analyst had told me that it
was not the factor in my disturbance though it might
be wise not to drink so regularly.


But now I made up my mind to stop drinking entirely
for the rest of my vacation. To my horror I found
I couldn't. The decision to do so seemed to enhance
terrifically the desire to drink and all I accomplished
was to make of myself a battle groundone
part of me fighting to drink and the other part fighting
not to drink. The battle lasted one day and that night
I got plastered. The victor rode the field for a week in

[p. <i>84</i>]

The woman who was the battleground for this skirmish
with alcohol remembered reading about Alcoholics Anonymous
and decided to attend a meeting to prove to herself
that she was not an alcoholic. She could not get a clear-cut
answer from the membersit was something she had to
decide for herselfbut she did begin to work with the
group and soon found that her panic was gone as well as
her desire to drink.


This girl was fortunate and unusually intelligent, but
she was not typical; she stopped before alcohol had made
a mess of her life. More often woman alcoholics go all of
the way down until they hit bottom in the police courts,
the hospitals, and the sanitariums.


More usual is the history of a young woman whose passionate
nature and poor sexual adjustments drove her
from one experiment to another and finally to the illusory
solace of drink. It is one of a series of such histories recorded
at the New York Psychiatric Institute and Hospital.


G was an attractive and intelligent young woman of
thirty who had a normal, happy childhood with a well-to-do,
generous, lovable father and a reserved, dignified
mother whom her children revered, although she never
seemed very close to them. G was a tomboy. She did not
like school and did not do well in her classes, but she soon
became a leader among her playmates. At twelve she
began to take an interest in boys and to repeat vulgar
stories and verse, at sixteen she had dates, and during her

[p. <i>85</i>]

At the art school to which she went after graduation
from high school, she associated with boys whom her family
considered undesirable socially, and finally, against the
wishes of her family, married an older man with whom
she persuaded herself she was in love. The husband was
not a satisfactory lover; he would not let her have children.
She found compensation in daydreams, to which
drink gave the illusion of reality.


Finally G divorced her husband, found a job, and went
out with other men. Now she was drinking so hard that
she needed a pick-up in the morning before she went to
work. She became intimate with a man with whom she was
not in love, and although he was more attractive to her
than her husband she found little satisfaction in the affair.
She was depressed and unhappy and felt inadequate on
the job. When these feelings of tenseness and anxiety became
too strong she would drink heavily, finding temporary
relief in the grandiose feeling that alcohol gave her.
Sometimes she became boisterous and prankish; occasionally
so quarrelsome that she ended up in the police station.


G lost her job and at about the same time met a brilliant
alcoholic with whom she lived for several months,
drinking heavily. Although he did not satisfy her sexually,
she thought herself in love with him and fell into
a deep depression when he left her. By this time her friends
had abandoned her and she felt desperately lost and alone.


She went back to art school, where she met another
gifted man with whom she started to live. They planned
to marry as soon as he could support her, but she did not
remain faithful to him. She left him and lived alone, drinking

[p. <i>86</i>]

Finally G became so depressed and disgusted with herself
that she asked to be committed and was sent to a State
hospital, where she remained for a year. Three weeks after
she left she started to drink again and to live with a new
man, another alcoholic. Then she became interested in Alcoholics
Anonymous, although she would not admit to herself
that she was truly an alcoholic. She was attracted to
the group and decided that she would try to stop drinking.
At the time of the interview she had found a partner
who satisfied her desires and whom she planned to marry.
She had remained sober for eight or nine months at a time.
When asked why she drank, G said, "Because of feeling
an outcast from my early years, and because of my feeling
of inferiority in school. Also because of the tension of not
being able to forget myself. I did not like life. I had very
strong ideas about what I wanted out of life and I did not
get it. I was brought up on the definite principle that
things should come to me. Now I know I can stop drinking.
I have seen a whole group of other people do it. If
they can, I can. I have confidence and I know that I am
growing."


This story of a passionate, tempestuous young idealist,
who wandered from sexual experience to sexual experience
looking for the perfect relationship, which she could never
find, illustrates only one of the many factors that drive
women to alcohol. There seem to be as many as there are
woman alcoholics, and that is one of the reasons why psychiatrists
find them so difficult to treat. They are more
complicated than men, they do not fall easily into patterns,
and the psychiatrist must often look deeper for the
roots of their trouble.

[p. <i>87</i>]

With wider education about alcoholism society is gradually,
very gradually, beginning to recognize it as a personality
disorder that is no more to be condemned than
a broken arm. Soon women will find the atmosphere more
helpful for recovery. It will be a little easier to take
that first almost impossibly difficult step of admitting that
they are alcoholics. As a friend of mine puts it, a young
woman who has become a leader in the movement for education
about alcoholism, "We have been away from reality
so long, we have twisted and turned so adroitly in our
speech, our actions, even our own thoughts, that we wondered
if it could be possible for us to come back. Everything
in our pattern has conspired to make us dishonest.
It isn't entirely our fault; the world is much to blame.
But we can do a job of reclamation as well as men, only we
need a little more help, a little more tolerance, and a little
more time."

