TRANSCRIPT OF AUDIO FILE:
______________________________________________________________________________
INTRODUCTION:
The following transcript was provided by The American Academy of Psychotherapists. AAP was founded in 1954 as a multidisciplinary group of committed therapists who promote the art and science of psychotherapy.  AAP is dedicated to fostering the development of the therapist at all levels, from graduate students to seasoned veterans. Over the years, AAP developed a series of recorded sessions, where well-known therapists provided examples of his or her particular brand of therapy.
ABOUT THE THERAPISTS:
Richard Felder, MD graduated from Emory University School of Medicine in 1944, served as a US Army physician in Germany and practiced internal medicine before going into psychiatry. With this medical background, Dr. Felder viewed clients' mental health along with their physical well-being and by linking the two, advanced a more holistic approach to healing. 
Dr. Felder was president of the American Academy of Psychotherapists and a founder of the Atlanta Psychiatric Clinic. He died in May, 2008.
				
John Warkentin, PhD., MD also practiced in Atlanta and co-founded the Atlanta Psychiatric Clinic. He is the founder, along with Thomas Malone, Cal Whitaker and Richard Felder, of Experiential Psychotherapy. Dr. Warkentin died in 1983.
THERAPIST'S INTRODUCTION:
The following is an introduction by John Warkentin to the case of Don, D-O-N. This is a single interview with the patient by two therapists which we call multiple therapy. Two years prior to the interview recorded on the tape, Don came to Dr. Richard Felder for individual psychotherapy. His presenting complaints initially were that he felt frustrated and "tight" in all of his living and he had had a sense of being unable to use his native intelligence. He had a sense of being dissatisfied with life generally but was unable to state in just what ways. He described his father as a domineering person and his mother as very over protective. She was still trying to baby him at the time therapy began. Don was inerratic until the age of 7 years. He got through school alright, graduated from college but somehow did not feel ready to support himself. He often felt irritable or hostile to people around him. Had many thoughts of suicide as a way of getting people to feel sorry for him and had considered carbon monoxide poisoning in his car. His operating dynamics were largely compulsive. He was punctual, systematic, a coin collector, and easily felt suspicious of the attitudes and motives of people around him. He had a number of phobias such as of the dark, water, cancer, and death. He stated that he dreamed very little. His sexual history was negative for homosexual contacts. He continued to masturbate with considerable guilt. He was generally shy and hesitant with girls. He had never dated much however, about four years before coming to our clinic; he had had some heterosexual experiences with casual strangers. His physical health had always been good except for colds and a history of three hemorrhoidectomies. [0:03:03.9]
We did projective psychological testing which included the Rorschach one year prior to the taped interview which you're about to hear. The testing showed the following: his figured drawings were like those seen in chronic schizophrenic patients. They were primitive and undifferentiated. His compulsions and obsessions were no longer protecting Don against being flooded with unconscious material. He was uncertain of his identity and afraid to express tender feelings of any kind. His thinking was stereotyped often concrete and literal. This is still in the psychological testing and it indicated that he had much introspectiveness, and infantile fantasies, magical expectations. His ideas of reference were primarily with authority figures and there was some indication that he was suffering from religious delusions. In summary the testing showed him to be a bright introspective man who was definitely involved with his therapist and relating in a rigid and orally dependent way. His reality testing was not seriously impaired. [0:04:30.9]
After this psychological testing we discussed his case in our clinic staff and thought it wise to introduce a second therapist into the treatment situation, namely Dr. John Warkentin. This was done. The patient at first objected to the increased cost and then welcomed the three way relationship which we call multiple therapy. Prior to this time, Don had 46 individual interviews. He was then seen in 37 multiple therapy interviews before we taped the interview which is recorded on this tape. [0:05:21.1]
During the year of multiple therapy prior to this taping, the patient was making slow progress. He developed some affection for the new therapist, gradually became more bold and outspoken in the interviews, displayed some aggression in the way he related to his parents, companions, and girlfriends. He began to report many dreams. He remained in good physical health. The two therapists during this year were developing a gradually increasing respect for Don so that they dared to be some what more aggressive with him as time went on. Both therapists adopted some of the patients depreciating and sarcastic way of discussing his experience and their relationship with him. Only on rare occasion was tenderness possible in the interview situation and this was always quite threatening to Don. Some of the interviews were very boring and sometimes the therapists attempted to meet this with provocative statements. Don always seemed more comfortable when the therapists maintained a hostile attitude toward him than when they felt warmly affectionate toward him. This situation is reflected in the taped interview which follows. [0:07:03.1]
By way of follow-up history, the patient made a satisfactory ending in psychotherapy, was eventually married, and is now definitely self supporting, and working adequately in a professional situation. 
BEGIN SESSION:
CLIENT: Are we going to tape this one today?
DR. FELDER: Yeah. I hope you don't mind.
CLIENT: Would it matter?
DR. FELDER: Well try and see if you want to. Of course it would matter. 
CLIENT: Is John coming late? 
DR. FELDER: I suppose so. He's just running late. 
CLIENT: Should we go ahead?
DR. FELDER:  Well that's what I had in mind and soon as you decide about the recording. [0:08:06.7]
CLIENT: Yeah. 
DR. FELDER: We're on. 
CLIENT: Are we on?
DR. FELDER:  Or off. 
CLIENT: It's the same damn old thing of sex just gets me all frustrated. I don't know what to do with it. This weekend I date a date with this girl Saturday afternoon that goes to the church out there where I work in College Park. We played tennis that afternoon. And then I went over to her house Saturday and she spent the night with this girl. And she asked me to eat dinner with her Saturday night and then again yesterday at lunch. And then last night, I took her over to this friend where she staying and got to necking and I didn't do anything. But I got so damned aroused just feeling her breast that I had to jump up and go in the bathroom to keep from messing my trousers up. And then I felt real bad about it and I got to trying to figure why in the devil I feel so bad about it and one of the things I'd done that was so awful but it's just this damn pattern that I'm in. Something like this happens and I don't know what to do with it. I feel real, real depressed. And it's the same old thing of wanting to talk about it and not wanting to talk about it. It seems like I'm afraid to talk about it. I don't know. I felt like a hypocrite. All day yesterday when I was with these different people, I guess I felt kind of depressed all day because I knew that I wasn't feeling close to anybody. It seems like I'm trying to make sex do something to make me feel closer and it just doesn't work. [0:12:45.6] 
DR. FELDER: Well now that we got that out of the way, you know of any way you and I could be close? 
CLIENT: No. Nothing comes to mind. You must have something in mind when you say that. [0:13:41.4]
DR. FELDER: What I had in mind is getting to where you and I are here rather than you and somebody else are there and it's today instead of yesterday. 
CLIENT: On the way out here I was thinking about telling you about this thing. This thing is really like going to confession kind of the feeling I have about it. [0:15:41.4]
DR. FELDER: Confession I guess there's a wall of some kind between you and the other person isn't there?
CLIENT: Yeah. Well wrong ones yeah. It's so sad. That's the darndest thing. I don't know. I can't seem to talk about the here and now. When I was sitting out there waiting for you all my damned butterflies starting going around in my stomach and the longer I sit, the more nervous I got. It seems like it's hard for me to talk about the here and now. I get so anxious I guess a wall goes up or something. I don't know. It's hard to do. The only feeling right now I'm aware of is I wish John was here which I think if it had been four or five times ago I wouldn't have had that feeling. [0:17:45.6]
DR. FELDER: In fact you would've wished he weren't here. 
CLIENT: Yeah.
DR. FELDER: Well that's some change isn't it. It seems to me like he is here. 
CLIENT: I always associate birds singing with him. [0:18:46.1]
[Knock on door.]
DR. WARKENTIN: Hi. 
CLIENT: Hi. We were just talking about you.
DR. WARKENTIN: That's good of you. 
CLIENT: I was saying I wish you were here which four weeks ago I don't think I would've said it. 
DR. WARKENTIN: That's helpful. What do you suppose you want me for?
CLIENT: Gosh, I don't really know. I guess I think I was just being protected somehow. [0:19:49.8]
DR. WARKENTIN: That sure sounds like me. (chuckles) Boy oh boy. That's wonderful you know. Here I pick on you all over the place and you call it protective. 
CLIENT: I think you did it the first couple of times I came but I haven't thought of you the last few times as picking on me. [0:20:26.4]
DR. WARKENTIN: I'm not just laughing at you. I think that's how it actually works. 
DR. FELDER: I do too.
DR. WARKENTIN: I think you experience the kind of attack that I carry through with you as protective. It keeps you from loving me; makes it safer. 
DR. FELDER: He was chattering about something that happened yesterday or last week or something. I asked him can you think of any way that he and I can be close. He promptly responded that he could not without even stopping to think about it. [0:21:55.0]
DR. WARKENTIN: Sounds like I might have divined the situation when I walked in.
DR. FELDER: It certainly does.
CLIENT: It might have what?
DR. WARKENTIN: Divined the situation. I have the feeling that you've moved that chair back a fair piece before you sat down and then you moved it back some more after you sat down just to get away from Richard. [0:22:27.5]
DR. FELDER: If there wasn't screen in that window, he might be able to slide right on out the window if he leans back like that. 
CLIENT: I felt that way when I came in. I was sure anxious waiting out there. 
DR. WARKENTIN: It's my fault that we were late. I got behind with our company today and haven't caught up yet. [0:23:11.9]
CLIENT: I'm confused. 
DR. FELDER: Congratulations. 
CLIENT: When we were talking a while ago and I was looking at you, there was something in your eyes and I felt real warm towards you. I don't know but I think you caught it to when I was looking at you. 
DR. WARKENTIN: Uh huh.
CLIENT: And then you started this thing about protection and you kind of say that my looking at you as protection keeps me from feeling warm towards you. 
DR. WARKENTIN: I explained something to you and that's always on the cold side. [0:24:14.1]
CLIENT: Yeah. 
DR. WARKENTIN: I sort of backed away from you to make an explanation. I'm glad you caught that. To me that's an important part of what we're here for, for you to really experience all these changes as acutely as you possibly can. I don't think you're here just to be loving, or just to be hateful, or just to talk, or just to anything. [0:25:16.5]
DR. FELDER: I had a fantasy about you while you all were talking that your left leg goes paralyzed, really quite useless and withered.
CLIENT: That doesn't leave but two to go because my right is withered and paralyzed too. 
DR. FELDER: It is?
CLIENT: That's what you say it is. 
DR. FELDER: I really think of you as quite an inadequate person. [0:26:02.7]
CLIENT: Sort of makes so, one leg and one arm.
DR. FELDER: Because that's not what I thought you meant when you said that leaves two to go. 
CLIENT: You've always got sex on your mind.
DR. FELDER: Isn't it wonderful. 
CLIENT: (chuckles) I don't know. I guess it is if you can learn to enjoy it rather than always feeling guilty about it. 
DR. WARKENTIN: He's already done that.
CLIENT: Already felt guilty about it?
DR. WARKENTIN: It seems like a long time since we saw you. How long has it been? [0:27:10.7]
DR. FELDER: I was thinking that too.
CLIENT: Ten days I think. Ten days, April 8th.
DR. WARKENTIN: Are you spacing them out or something. 
CLIENT: Ten days apart, three a month. 
DR. FELDER: Just to be different.
CLIENT: No, that's half as many as I'd been coming. I was coming six when I was coming to see you. 
DR. WARKENTIN: Well we're going to mad with you for coming so rarely.
CLIENT: Well I hope I could've come more but I just can't afford it. [0:28:06.8]
DR. WARKENTIN: We can still be mad with you.
DR. FELDER: That wouldn't stop us would it John?
DR. WARKENTIN: No. I had a real feeling of anticipation when I saw his name on the schedule for today. I looked forward to this interview. I felt badly I got snafued (sp?) to I that couldn't be here on time. 
CLIENT: Whenever people try to complement me or say anything nice like you just said, I don't really believe it. Don't believe that they really mean it. [0:29:28.9]
DR. WARKENTIN: Sure. It's much more comfortable to call me a liar at least to yourself even when you don't do it out loud. You know that would be desperate if you started believing what people told you. 
CLIENT: I just don't know what to do with it. 
DR. WARKENTIN: Sort of a raw feeling when you can no longer shut it off like you have been doing? [0:30:42.9]
CLIENT: Uh huh.
DR. WARKENTIN: Or decide not to shut it off. 
DR. FELDER: I had a dream about you just them. I dreamed that you had demonstrated to us how crowded you are and sort of hemmed in. Your boundaries are so closed in that you don't have any room to move about it. And then somehow or other I got a picture of you from a different perspective and there was a lot of extra room at the side that hadn't been visible from the front. I don't know how I got this other perspective but it was kind of like the world rotating. And then the three of us were in a car at the bottom of Jet Road and we were going to go up a long hill and in order to make it over the top we'd have to get up as much speed as we could. And these two dreams seem to be related to each other somehow. [0:32:25.9]
CLIENT: Your dream's made me tense. 
DR. FELDER: I had another association to the first dream that the turning where I could see the extra space was like the turning of a compass that you have in an automobile. 
CLIENT: I don't know. What kind of compass is that? [0:33:15.4]
DR. FELDER: It's one that floats inside of a brown glass ball then when you turn, it turns except it doesn't. It seems to turn but actually you turn around it. 
CLIENT: I had two dreams and both of them President Eisenhower was in them and in one he was Master of Ceremony in Truth or Consequences which I always associated with being kind of a joke. And then the one last night he was on television and he had been deeply hurt because somebody had said something about him or something. Anyway he was tearing off two associations that come to mind that had something to do with the army uniforms; some kind of insignia on the uniform. And he was tearing them off of this coat. And the feeling was that he had been insulted and he was deeply hurt because people had seen him in a way in which he didn't think he really was. [0:35:19.9]
DR. WARKENTIN: How did he look in your dream?
CLIENT: He was crying part of the time and he was angry too; a combination of being angry and crying. It was different from a lot of dreams that I have because I was real aware of his feelings which usually I'm not aware of. 
DR. WARKENTIN: I've sure noticed the shift in you to new interests. One of my initial impressions of you when I came into your therapy with Dr. Felder was your preoccupation with the realities of life; what you had done or not done and then centered your consideration around the fact of this or that. This dream to me epitomizes the change. Your concern is with the feeling of the man; he was hurting, or angry, or crying and no particular concern with how it had happened. So what? I see that as a big thing in your living. [0:37:02.8]
DR. FELDER: More room to move around in.
DR. WARKENTIN: Uh huh. I like the respect for human experience itself. You're reflecting that. 
CLIENT: This was last night. This dream was last night which to me kind of associated something with this girl that she had seen me in a way that I didn't want to be seen. Maybe I was trying to tear something off myself. I was telling Dick before you got here this girl last night I started feeling her breast and I got so aroused sexually that I had to go to the bathroom before I messed my trousers up. And then afterwards it was all over, I felt real guilty about it and depressed. [0:38:20.1]
DR. WARKENTIN: You mean about going to the bathroom?
CLIENT: Both. 
DR. FELDER: Makes you think you would want your sickness to be visible in here and covered up outside of here. 
DR. WARKENTIN: I gather you did not really care for her as a person? [0:39:33.4]
CLIENT: I think that's the reason I felt so guilty because she had asked me will I eat dinner with her Saturday night and then lunch with she and her folks Sunday and somehow I felt like I was taking advantage of her. 
DR. WARKENTIN: You were really doing with her what I thought you were doing with Dr. Felder when I came in, just backing away. 
CLIENT: Uh huh. 
DR. WARKENTIN: What's so dangerous about being close do you suppose; with her, with us? [0:40:31.6]
CLIENT: I know what comes to mind but a lot of it's up here, not in my gut. I feel like my parents are gosh I don't know whether I could say I was ever close to them or not. I feel it ain't being as close to them as I was even though that probably wasn't real close. I had to always do and be what they wanted me to be and it kind of took my initiative away. I think Dick and I talked some about this. And now I guess unconsciously I feel like if I get close to anybody else that they'll do what my parents did, they'll take my initiative away from me rather than having to develop it. [0:41:38.5]
DR. WARKENTIN: So when you're in the bathroom with the door locked, no one can interfere with your initiative?
CLIENT: Yeah. 
DR. WARKENTIN: What would be bad about losing your initiative? What would happen next? [0:42:40.7]
CLIENT: I don't know. I think of myself as having lost it or almost lost it. 
DR. WARKENTIN: So you can't really afford to lose much more?
CLIENT: Yeah.
DR. WARKENTIN: Well what if you did, then what? [0:43:21.0]
CLIENT: I don't know. The thing that I thought was the world would go to pieces; my world.
DR. WARKENTIN: How? 
CLIENT: Be totally dependent on somebody else. 
DR. WARKENTIN: Then? 
CLIENT: Well according to who I was with. If I did it with you and Dick, I guess it would be good. I say that but I guess I'm having trouble being able to do it. I guess most of the time I'm obsessed with defending what little bit I've got left. I guess that's the reason I have to defend it because it is so low. [0:45:12.2]
DR. FELDER: I was just thinking how much we've gone along with him on this. [0:46:16.3]
DR. WARKENTIN: Protecting his initiative.
DR. FELDER: Or preventing him from being dependent like he obviously wants to be.
DR. WARKENTIN: I wonder why?
DR. FELDER: That's what I was wondering. 
DR. WARKENTIN: Almost as if we agree it would be awful if he were really dependent. [0:47:26.2]
CLIENT: I feel like the thing that I'm striving for is to be dependent on you and Dick but I'm afraid to be dependent on others. That's sad and I guess I'm afraid to be dependent on you all still. [0:48:39.3]
DR. FELDER: I was just having a very crazy dream that you didn't have any mouth so I had to let you swallow me like the whale swallowed Jonah so that then you would have a mouth. [0:49:12.3]
CLIENT: I want to talk and yet I don't. [0:52:09.5]
DR. WARKENTIN: Richard's dream have an upsetting quality? 
CLIENT: What?
DR. WARKENTIN: Richard's dreams have an upsetting quality. [0:53:01.5] 
CLIENT: Sure. 
DR. WARKENTIN: I just figured why he doesn't want to talk. He'd be doing that for us. 
CLIENT: Be giving you something.
DR. WARKENTIN: Uh huh. Yeah, we're working for you and you have a feeling that you ought to be working for us, tit for tat. [0:54:11.5]
DR. FELDER: Tat for tit. 
DR. WARKENTIN: Anyway. 
CLIENT: I feel like that you are working for me?
DR. FELDER: You do or are you asking him how you feel?
CLIENT: I'm trying to (chuckles) Skip it. [0:55:16.5]
END TRANSCRIPT
