PART ONE BEGINS <a href="psyc.object.details.aspx?dorpid=1002161763">HERE</a>
<b>Disc 2 of 2</b>
SECOND PSYCHOTHERAPY SESSION
Bugental:  Let's just take a minute and get with ourselves as much as we can.  Breathe a little bit, and when you are ready let me know.
Marie:  I'm okay.
Bugental:  You're faster than I am.
Marie:  Sometimes.
[Pause. Bugental watches Marie until they nod to each other.]
Bugental:  Good. Mm hm.  It felt sort of like things we saw last week, that quick way, "I am okay", giving the feeling where you are sort of pushing more, or a little bit, "come on, come up to the mark."  Is that accurate?
Marie:  That's accurate, yeah.  That actually is pretty on the target for my MO so to speak.
Bugental:  Why don't we just stay with that for a minute and see what it brings to mind, this MO of yours and the way you treat Marie.
Marie:  Well, I think what it brings to mind is the fact that more times than not I am trying to do about a hundred things at the same time.  So I think what that ultimately has me doing is constantly prioritizing in my mind as to what needs to occur now.  And I think, so there is constant state of prioritizing and in addition to that what I have to constantly remind myself is to focus on the task at hand because I am always thinking about what I have got to do next or maybe what I didn't do - yeah. Or if this could have been done differently or better or whatever.  So I think it's just kind of an ongoing internal dialogue and escaping that only happens for me really when I get absolutely immersed in what I am doing and that doesn't happen real frequently.  If I am reading a good book, watching a good movie. I can focus if I am working with or dealing with another human being.  You know, I don't have a real problem with everything else becoming a part of it but it's not something that I do often.  Yeah, that's very on the mark.
Bugental:  I was just thinking that in your priorities, Marie's private internal life must be fairly low down on the list.
Marie:  Well yeah, I suppose so but also on the other hand I think that&mdash; Yeah, I think that's a fair assessment, but I also think that on some level I am constantly working on that.  I mean that's always kind of happening and I will have some sort of thought or insight and I will kind of work through it.  I have an opportunity on a daily basis because I am in my car a lot and that's, some of that kind of down time.  And also I get up real early in the morning just so I can have an hour kind of to regroup, but in effect, yeah, that's true, that's true.
Bugental:  How about right now, where is Marie on the priorities for right now?
Marie:  I am&mdash; This is what I am doing right now, I am with you.  I am not allowing the other things that are kind of motivating me as far as what I have to do next where I have to be next, the phone call I have to make when I leave here.  The other things they are on my mind I have kind of put them aside.  And what was very helpful in doing that was to sit here and take some deep breaths and kind of regroup.
Bugental:  Yeah.
Marie:  So that, that helped me kind of do away with all that other chatter for this time with you.  As far as where me, my internal dialogue is in relation to this, it is the priority right now.  I mean obviously we are doing this with a goal in mind.  But I believe that me, my feelings are the priority of this communication.  So that, it's a nice little cocoon you know, it's a nice little breather.
Bugental:  A protected space.
Marie:  Yeah, for this time, yeah.
Bugental:  Let's use that, in that cocoon, if you just, maybe take one or two of those breaths and sink into it even more, what do you find?
Marie:  Well, as far as how I am currently feeling in this internal dialogue going on just going into that.  I am harried today, I am stressed, it's taking me more effort maybe to concentrate on what we are doing than a week ago when we met and I think that's just because there's pressures both internal and external that are happening right now today.  So, I guess I'm just feeling a little on edge.
Bugental:  And you said that's a guess, "I guess".
Marie:  Well I am feeling a little on edge.
Bugental:  And that's leading you on&mdash;
Marie:  No, no, that's okay, I mean I am just, yeah, there is probably a better way to express that but I am feeling, uh&mdash; [Pause]
Bugental:  Your face just changed.
Marie:  Well I was just thinking I guess it goes back to the age old, I mean everything is kind of circular.  And it's a matter of the same thing we started out talking about in relation of priorities and there's a 100 things going on always at the same time.  So I am constantly berating myself for not being better at time management.  So that&mdash;
Bugental:  Oh you're tough aren't you, on yourself.
Marie:  Yeah. Yeah I am. Yeah I am.
Bugental:  You seem complacent about it.
Marie:  Well, I think it's something that I have addressed and I am not so sure that&mdash; It's ingrained. I have tried to look at some of the origins of it.  I can pinpoint some of those and no, I don't give myself a lot of breaks.
Bugental:  I hear that.
Marie:  I really don't and I know that that's&mdash; That kind of ties in with what we were talking about last week.  And being, not being a spontaneous, as spontaneous as maybe I could or should be but again those "shoulds" start coming into place, so it's kind of, you know, I think I have gotten to the point and when you say complacent I have accepted this as a part of myself.  And I guess it, it works, you know, I manage to get things accomplished.
Bugental:  I'll bet. Yeah. But doesn't it make you kind of a machine for your purpose?
Marie:  Well, to a degree I suppose but I think just by the nature of my relationships and the kind of job I have that, that I need to be a pretty feeling human being.  And as I mentioned earlier I think I can put some of that stuff aside when I need to attend to or am with someone else.  But, yeah, there is an underlying kind of soldier type attitude. I think at least as far as things that are in relation just to me.
Bugental:  Yes.
Marie:  Yeah, maybe that's a better way of looking at it.
Bugental: Yeah, that says it.
Marie: Yeah, I think that that defines it a little more accurately.  And so&mdash;
Bugental:  How do you feel about that?
Marie:  Well, as I mentioned I think to a degree it's the coping mechanism that works for me and I think it came about relatively naturally.  I guess that one of the aspects of that whole attitude that is not appealing to me is that there is never a sense of being content.  Okay, when you had said earlier I am complacent with that, well I am not really complacent with too much and so contentment on many levels eludes me, period.  And it's something that I don't know if it is just an illusion. I mean, there's certain moments that it's fine but it's just hard for me I think to, to be real content, for lack of a better way of expressing it that that kind of is an ongoing anxiety.
Bugental:  Let me feed back what I am hearing, then you check it out for me.
Marie:  Okay.
Bugental:  I am hearing you say that you have learned a way of sort of managing things in your life that works pretty well.  But it has quite a cost in contentment in deeper quell your satisfaction inside yourself.  You know how to deal with situations, a variety of situations, demands, but in that process some inner part of you doesn't get to relax.  I notice, as you tell me that, your usual prompt speech is larded with things like "I think," "I guess," "it seems" as you sort of feel your way to think about this.  Am I on target?
Marie:  Yeah, you are on target, you are, because that inner peace is something that I am still working at, I am still working on.  I think that my orientation as far as being, as far as doing, you know, kind of constant motion, you know, that is one of the ways that I cope.
Bugental:  Keeping busy.
Marie:  Yeah.
Bugental:  A list of things.
Marie:  Yeah and whether it's physical busy or mental busy it's still keeping busy. It's like, it's like making sure I have some sort of purpose.
Bugental:  And the way you cope each day.
Marie:  Yeah.  I was just thinking in terms of really what, what end that means serves and some of it I realize I mean well&mdash; [Pause] The initial, my initial response will be, okay Marie what are you avoiding, okay, because&mdash; But I'm really not avoiding anything. I mean, I believe that I am kind of on the verge of being brutally honest with myself.  I don't have a real problem with being honest with myself regarding shortcomings, things that need to be worked on, etc.  So, I mean, if I would indeed take that next step as far as to say, okay what am I avoiding through this coping mechanism, I am not sure what that would be.
Bugental:  I am not sure either right now.  It felt like we turned a corner some place as you were talking, did you get that?
Marie:  Yeah.
Bugental:  I don't know just where.
Marie:  No, I am trying to figure it out too.  It's like&mdash; [Pause] I don't know.
Bugental:  Why don't you let that go, just get centered, try and find what would be good to go further with right now.  [Pause]
Marie:  I'll take your lead.  I think as I kind of check inward the subject that kind of came to my mind is kind of anxiety and wondering if this conversation is making me anxious.
Bugental:  Good, good.
Marie:  You know, regarding that whole aspect of my behavior, namely my coping pattern.
Bugental:  That's a terribly important question then, take time to check in on it. [Pause]
Marie:  I think it is an important question and I am not sure what kind of door that would open, honestly.  Because to a certain degree highlighting that coping pattern does produce a certain amount of anxiety, I think, mainly because I don't think and I don't feel that it is&mdash; It may be the most efficient way to go from a mechanistic viewpoint, but it certainly, it certainly is not satisfying, okay maybe that's&mdash;  And I am not real sure that I have any alternatives to that, I mean that's just the kind of the way things have developed.  And I can think back, I wasn't always like this, but this is kind of what's worked.  It's like with my drinking that I talked to you about.  You know there is no doubt in my mind why I drank. I mean it's like it's the one time that there weren't all these control dramas going on, you know, so it served a purpose. Got out of hand, but it certainly served a purpose, so&mdash;
Bugental:  Then what you call a coping mechanism was able to replace that, but it served a purpose too.
Marie:  Exactly, exactly. And I think that that's, at that point, and I think I touched on that last week with you that that's kind of where I see not the origin of all this, but at least where I see that it's getting into a kind of everyday way of living.
Bugental: If the choice is between going back to drinking and the coping mechanisms, it's clear which is the one you prefer, it pays off.
Marie:  Oh yeah, I have&mdash;
Bugental:  I wonder is there's a third choice.
Marie:  Yeah, me too. It's called balance.  You know it's that whole&mdash; and really the term that I have been able to utilize for me as far as what I would be searching for is balance.  I mean there has to be some sort of balance here.  And I'm still looking for it.
Bugental:  Well, of course.
Marie:  You know that's just kind of my quest right now and&mdash;
Bugental:  I am so struck, your voice has so much more inflexion just in the last few minutes.
Marie:  Oh, it's because there's hope, maybe. Yeah.
Bugental:  Maybe it's hope, yeah.
Marie:  Yeah. But, I mean that's true because knowing the way that I get things accomplished and go about it and, you know, the pressure to do everything right and do it more than right and, you know, that whole perfectionistic thing, yeah the whole type A business, etc, etc.  It's very exhausting.
Bugental:  Yeah, oh, I believe it.
Marie:  That's probably the best word that&mdash; and I sometime I say to myself, "My God, you're exhausting yourself thinking about what you are going to do today, why don't you wait and actually get into it before you get tired," you know.  But yeah, so I don't&mdash; It serves a purpose but there's a cost.  And I think that, I think there's got to be a way to find some alternatives.  And I am not so sure that those alternatives are in any sort of&mdash; if they are any sort of mechanism or any, yeah, pattern.
Bugental:  Packaged.
Marie:  Yeah, yeah, I mean I think it's just a matter, kind of, of living.  And enjoying when one can, and one of my sisters I think really has a good handle on living like that and so I try to learn from her a little bit.  So it's tough.
Bugental:  I believe it.
Marie:  It's tough and the ramifications of it are, I think, relatively pervading.
Bugental:  You looked very reflective there, just stay with that for a minute, discover what comes up next for you.
Marie:  What I was hitting on right then was, I was just thinking in relation to my family, that I just kind of jumped when I mentioned my sister and I was just thinking in terms of my brother who, he and I are so much alike in the same sort of thrust.
Bugental:  Mm hm, you make a little face as you say that.
Marie:  Yeah, well I am trying to figure out just kind of how to explain it. I mean the, I think it's matter of trying to live up to the great expectation, so to speak, you know. And there is a lot of that externally and I think it's been internalized to a large degree, and I think one way or the other, ultimately there is some sense of never actually reaching that goal because perfectionism is impossible.  But I had it, but it is still in my mind. I mean, it's something I have now kind of confronted and try to work through&mdash; 
Bugental:  What is the "it"?
Marie:  The "it" is that I was sold a bill of goods that there is something called perfect.
Bugental:  Oh, I see.
Marie:  Yeah, and unfortunately life does not bear that out, but I think that plays a lot with how I do things. I never want to do anything halfway; it's got to be done, you know, which is okay, I mean I don't think I am too bad of an extremist on that one, but it does play a part, that does play a part and I think it also makes for very poor risk taking.  I mean once I am in kind of a comfortable situation, maybe comfortable is not the right word, but that I know, then it's&mdash; and that I know I can excel at, then it's difficult to make a change. That's been real evident to me as far as my career path up to this point, so just as a for example. But&mdash;
Bugental:  Your voice has gotten much more level again.
Marie:  Yeah, because I am, yeah.  So I think that whole tendency, it creates a lot of dissatisfaction, that maybe that's the best way to explain it. And now that I am talking to you about this in relation what I had stated earlier regarding contentment and lack thereof, well, you know, looking towards perfectionism, I'm never going to be content and there is never going to be anything perfect, so it just kind of&mdash;
Bugental:  Fits?
Marie:  Yeah, it does all kind of fit. Now what do I do about it?
Bugental:  Yeah, good question. What happens when you ask? You liven up for one thing.
Marie:  [Laughs] Oh, I am like, "Oh man, this is like great. Here is the new mountain to climb," you know.  I think the first thing I have to do, and this is the case, I have got to give myself a break, I mean a psychological break, and that's no easy task, so&mdash;
Bugental:  I am going to put into, make an observation, have you check it out: "That's a mountain I've got to climb," that pointed outside of you, but then you thought, "first I've got to give myself a break," and that was inside, and I wonder if that isn't the truer place.
Marie:  Oh for sure, absolutely.
Bugental:  Yeah, to give yourself a break.
Marie:  Oh, well.
Bugental:  Mm, caution on that one.
Marie:  Yes.
Bugental:  And I see that, tell me that about that caution?
Marie:  Well it's just not something that I am used to doing.
Bugental:  I see that.
Marie:  And I'm consequently not very comfortable with that. I am not sure&mdash;
Bugental:  Tell me about the discomfort with the idea of giving yourself a break.
Bugental:  Well, I am not sure&mdash; Yeah, I am not sure what would happen.
Bugental:  And you're sure out there?
Marie:  No.
Bugental:  Okay.  Just to keep the record straight here.
Marie:  No, no, that's kind of irrelevant.  But it's like maybe it's a house of cards and it'll all come tumbling down.
Bugental:  What's the "it"?
Marie:  The way that I kind of get by or it's more than&mdash; It's the way I live.  I mean, it's not a matter of getting by it's the way I live, but&mdash;
Bugental:  And it might come tumbling down?
Marie:  I mean taken to a logical extreme, okay, well, I don't know if that's&mdash; I am not, I can honestly say I am not real sure what prohibits me from exploring that.  My justification for that coping pattern is that it works.
Bugental:  Clearly and well.
Marie:  And the only person who is possibly, or who does indeed miss out or get hurt or suffer from that is me.
Bugental:  Does that matter?
Marie:  Yeah, it matters, but I would rather have it be me than someone else.
Bugental:  I hear that.  Is that the choice?
Marie:  I would hope not.
Bugental:  I would hope not.
Marie:  You know, I would hope not.  And these are kind of, I think in talking to you about this, it's kind of amplified this whole way of living, I mean it's not as&mdash; now I'm just trying to justify it to myself too&mdash;it's not quite as mechanistic as maybe I make it out to be.  On the other hand maybe it is.
Bugental:  It's an important question.
Marie:  Yeah it is. It is, and as far as&mdash; I don't know, I don't know. I think maybe not 100% of the time.  But a lot of times, too, I think circumstances dictate, so at certain points, certain days it becomes more necessary to be more of that way.  But I have to admit one thing, and this is admitting it to myself, I am becoming more like that.  The more responsibilities I take on in my life, the more I tend to kind of be on automatic response.
Bugental:  Does that matter?
Marie:  Yeah, it matters because I don't think too much kind of gets through. It's, there's a wall there.  And I don't think that, well I know it's not good.  So, it's kind of like the great pretender because I can play a pretty good role.  And I am not sure how many people can really see through that.  I mean I am sure&mdash;
Bugental:  Is that important?
Marie:  Well, yeah to a certain degree, I mean to certain people.  But I'm with people all the time in my job, so that is important.  I mean, you know, that's kind of a relationship at an arm's length. That's important, yeah.
Bugental:  Yeah. I want to be sure I'm understanding. You're saying that often you are pretending, the great pretender, and that many of the people in your daily life, your work life, don't see you any other way, and that's alright. Am I hearing you?
Marie:  Yeah.
Bugental:  Now, you had a little pause here. What was that?
Marie:  Well, I was just kind of contemplating on that if that's alright. Well, if indeed&mdash; Yeah, it is alright.  It's alright most of the time.  I mean, if I have developed a personal relationship with the client&mdash; I mean, it's the same thing as when I sat down here.
Bugental:  Okay.
Marie:  "Marie, how are you doing?  I'm okay."  You know, I mean, don't finish your sentence, "I am okay."  "I am fine&mdash;"that's my big one&mdash;"I am fine".  And, but, I am really not fine.  I mean there is a whole bunch of things going on in my life that are promoting not fine.  I mean, my father is dying for God sake, I'm not fine, but I don't feel I have to share that with my clients.  I don't need to share that with many of my co-workers.  You know, I think a distance to a large degree is necessary with numerous people that I encounter in my daily life.
Bugental:  How about with you?
Marie:  With me, to me?  No, that's not necessary.
Bugental:  And you suggest that it's there.
Marie:  Well, when I say that&mdash; No I think I am pretty honest with myself about that, about how I am feeling.  Yeah, I don't have a real problem with that because when I do this great pretender thing I know what I am doing.  Yeah, I mean it's not so much calculated, but it's definitely, it's purposeful.  It's purposeful.  So, I know when I'm a wreck but the world doesn't have to know I'm wreck.  I mean, that sort of attitude.
Bugental:  Do you pay attention when you're a wreck?  I mean, you know, but do you pay attention?
Marie:  Sometimes. Sometimes but it's the old adage that pick oneself up by the bootstraps and continue on, you know, and I kind of have found that to be more effective.
Bugental:  Than?
Marie:  Than dwelling maybe on other things, especially when they are things that I can't control.
Bugental:  Two choices?
Marie:  Yeah.
Bugental:  Only two choices?
Marie:  Two choices: the control and the not control?
Bugental:  The picking yourself up and booting yourself in the ass to say, "get going," or&mdash;
Marie:  Or dwelling in the&mdash;
Bugental:  Dwelling.
Marie:  Yeah, see that's it.  That's kind of&mdash; I am not real good about seeing that in between.  It's the truth.  It's the truth.
Bugental:  You shake your head.
Marie:  Well, I mean, I know, I know this is, I know this.  I know it&mdash; Maybe every once in a while I am better at it than not, but the older I get I think the more ingrained that whole pattern becomes or that whole belief becomes.
Bugental:  I want to be sure I know what the belief or pattern is.
Marie:  Either or.  The either or.  It's like when I smoked cigarettes I smoked three packs a day at the end.  So I am really not, that whole balance again.  It's that, you know, it eludes me.
Bugental:  You see that pattern in a lot of different places.
Marie:  Yeah, oh yeah, absolutely.
Bugental:  What do you think about that?
Marie:  Well I think it's really counter-productive, I really do.  I mean, if indeed&mdash; If I place&mdash;I mean, I am just saying this out loud because it just kind of struck me&mdash;It's kind of odd to speak to you about this and realize I place so much value on efficiency, which I think the nature of my job brings out, and then here I am doing these things that are just counter efficient, so to speak.  There is a real clash there.
Bugental:  Yeah.  Let them clash in you right now, if you can. Let me hear whatever comes with it.  Don't figure it out.  Let them clash.
Marie:  Well, I could scream but I won't do that.
Bugental:  Why not?
Marie:  Well, that's I don't think appropriate right now.
Bugental:  I am going to hound you a little bit, why not?  Why isn't it appropriate?
Marie:  Why isn't it appropriate, because I don't want to freak everyone out here that I'd scream.
Bugental:  You are taking care of everyone else.
Marie:  Oh, well, this is a good&mdash; Oh here we go on another one of Marie's problems.
Bugental:  Okay.
Marie:  Yeah, I do that all the time.
Bugental:  How well are you taking care of Marie?
Marie:  Well, she comes second, maybe third, maybe fifth.  But I figure&mdash;
Bugental:  You say that sort of.
Marie:  It's kind of like, I figure that in taking care of my other responsibilities, that somehow that's going to take care of me, I mean, let me put you this way, if I didn't do what I felt I should do for the other people in my life, that would drive me crazy, too, so&mdash;
Bugental:  Sounds like kind of "either/or," doesn't it?
Marie:  It's the same thing. I mean, this is real&mdash;
Bugental:  So let's come back to why don't you scream?
Marie:  Well why don't I scream? I guess because I would consider it inappropriate behavior right now.
Bugental:  Are you always appropriate?
Marie:  Since I quit drinking, no I'm kidding. [Laughs]
Bugental:  Now you're not.
Marie:  No I am not always appropriate, but I certainly am a lot more controlled. Yeah I am pretty controlled, I am a pretty controlled person.
Bugental:  I know, can you feel how much enlivened you are right now?
Marie:  Yeah, and I have fun too.
Bugental:  Well, I can see that.
Marie:  Yeah.
Bugental:  But, the very thought of letting Marie out more and you come alive and your voice modulates.
Marie:  And it's not to say that I don't do that, either.  But it's not my orientation.
Bugental:  But you don't scream here now.
Marie:  No, no I'll do that in my car. [Laughs] Just kidding.
Bugental:  No, you're not just kidding.
Marie:  No, I have been known to do that.
Bugental:  Here?
Marie:  No, in my car.
Bugental:  That's what I thought, you weren't just kidding.
Marie:  No I wasn't, you are right, you are right.
Bugental:  Suppose I scream with you, shall we scream together?  Will that help?
Marie:  No, I don't think it would help at all. I'm&mdash;
Bugental:  What? This is what we're looking for, Marie. What happened just then?
Marie:  What happened just then is like, I think in relation to screaming I'm thinking, "Oh well that would be futile."  But that's not all that there was there, and I have to think about it. It's&mdash; [pause] Well, yeah, I suppose being somewhat controlled is important to me.  I have been known to scream at work, I have been known to scream in a lot of other places, in my car.  But I am trying to think why I would not want to scream here.
Bugental:  Yeah.
Marie:  And it just wouldn't be comfortable.  And I think it wouldn't be comfortable because it's, maybe it's just that letting go, I don't know, I am not sure. I mean&mdash;
Bugental:  But you are doing a useful thing, you are sort of checking inside.  What holds me back, what is really holding me back?  I've got these quick words, inappropriate and so forth.  You can sense there is something more that keeps you contained.  So, feel it a little longer, if you can, just listen inside, feel inside.
Marie:  [Pause] It all kind of stems from what I think is correct behavior, whatever that may be.  I don't know.
Bugental:  I think that's true.
Marie:  I can't&mdash; I mean there is a whole bunch of different forces I am sure, but to bring one up, I don't want to place too much importance on any one thing, you know, because it is such a, oh, I can't think of the word, but confluence of things, you know it's not, there is just, there is not one thing.
Bugental:  Yeah, so a bunch coming together.
Marie:  Yeah, yeah, and it's not that I consider myself a real, a very reserved person, but maybe I am to a degree.
Bugental:  Maybe.
Marie:  Well, I think I am to a degree and&mdash;
Bugental:  "I think:" how cautiously.
Marie:  I am a reserved person to a degree. [Laughs]
Bugental:  Do you notice how cautiously you pick it up&mdash;
Marie:  Yeah, I am trying to think this through. I mean, this is never a self-perception I had, me as a reserved person, but I am getting old so that's part of it. It is part of it, but maybe that's&mdash; Oh here, maybe this will help shed some light on this in my own brain: Maybe that is how I want to appear, is more reserved than I know I can be.
Bugental: Three maybes to say that.
Marie:  Oh, three maybes? Well, I am trying to think this is through. I don't want to set it in stone here.
Bugental:  Alright, absolutely.  I am just noticing, as you are getting into this new territory, you are cautious, and I think wisely But you are livelier, your voice modulates, your face is active, and the monotone tells me how much is held down by that monotone.
Marie:  That I believe.
Bugental:  Yeah.
Marie:  That I believe. I mean, why I would want to appear reserved to people is beyond me, it has never held a whole bunch of importance in my life before, to come off as reserved.  But, you know, maybe that's just one of the things that plays a part.
Bugental:  It amuses you some way, doesn't it?
Marie:  Yeah. Well, I think it's kind of fun to delve into one's personality and try to kind of figure it out.  I have always looked at exploring that from the origin side.  You know kind of okay well that's a behavior that I am very familiar with because it's something that my mother has done all these years, or dah-dah-dah, you know, that sort of explanation, so to speak.  And I do think that that has shed a lot of light on different things for me.  But obviously me, myself, I give it my own spin, so to speak.  So I think it's been helpful for me to understand some of those potential origins.  But as far as exploring the behavior now, yeah, it is. I mean, it's like, oh my god.  So I do have the capacity to laugh at myself and again I go back to this whole thing about being counter-productive in this quest for efficiency when my priorities need to shift, you know, and the quest has got to be some sort of balance and enjoy life more.  So I need to win the lotto&mdash; No I'm kidding, but not kidding.  But I think that's right.  I think that that is absolutely right.
Bugental:  Just take a minute and see where we are as we draw to a close.  It's kind of abrupt and I am sorry about that. I think I got caught up with you.
Marie:  Yeah, no, it did go by quickly.  Well, the one thing that I am just thinking to myself is, "Oh my God I've got an incredible amount to think about and to synthesize," you know, all this information, but I know after speaking to you last week, and you made a conscious effort or comment of saying, "Don't do any homework."  Yeah, and but I couldn't help it.  Obviously in the back of my brain something would jump out and I think it was real good.  And I realized last week and I realized again now this is a lot of information.  This is a very enormous experience and it will kind of sift itself out just, but I think I am going to, I know I will be more conscious of maybe my way of dealing with things.  I mean, at least, you know, I am aware of it now on a different level.  I have always been aware of it but haven't been as maybe deeply aware of it or something of that nature, so&mdash;
Bugental:  What I had meant by don't do homework is, sometimes people try to write out things to bring up next time and bringing a shopping list of things, then that gets some way of doing what you have been doing so well today, discovering as opposed to figuring yourself out or writing yourself out.  And that's the one thing I would recommend to you. You can do that on your own, too.
Marie:  My shopping list is kind of burned in my brain.
Bugental: Yeah, I bet.  But take time just to listen maybe. Do you keep a journal?
Marie:  Well I have been, not personal, but it was a good exercise to do it for another endeavor and that might be an idea to continue.
Bugental: Sometimes just don't write, sort of like our talks, just let it be discovery rather than telling.
Marie:  Good ideas.
Bugental:  Good.  I liked working with you.
Marie:  Oh, it has been my pleasure.
Bugental:  Well then.
Marie:  Thank you.
Bugental:  Thank you.
<b>Client Reactions</b>
Yalom:  You were talking about what a wonderful experience this was.  I just wanted to get this on camera just to&mdash; You were almost more expressive right after this than you were in it.
Marie:  Oh, its&mdash; I just, it was a very powerful experience and working with Jim there was a comfort level there.  There was a comfort zone that just kind of defied the circumstances, so to speak.  I mean, it's not&mdash; When you have cameras on, when other people are witnessing what I consider a very personal situation, personal conversation, my inclination would have been that it would have been very uncomfortable, not real spontaneous, kind of, definitely a little bit at arm's length.  But Jim just totally&mdash; The situation transcended all of those fears of mine, or not even fears but just what I kind of consider as facts of the environment, and yeah.
Douglas:  Sounds like appropriateness became less important.
Marie:  Oh totally. He, I was absolutely comfortable with him.  He just kind of emanates with this warmth and acceptance and kindness and my comfort level just&mdash; And interestingly enough for me is that it occurred right away both last week and this week. I loved last&mdash; I was in much more, I had much more trepidation last week because of course I was walking into a completely unknown situation.  And when I left I was just I kind of marveled over the fact that I was that comfortable with this person, you know.  And he works in such a non-intrusive sort of way. You know, it was just really, it flowed really well.  And the other thing that I was just commenting on, Victor, was the fact that it was just the two of us you know.  Regardless of who else was here, what else was going on, this magnificent view, I mean, it was just kind of the two of us clicked and it flowed and it just kind of, it worked.  And I very much, I am very moved by the whole experience.  It was fabulous.  I am not one, as my conversation with Jim kind of explained, that totally concentrates on what's going on right then.  I mean, I have got a hundred other things on my mind, and not with him during that session. It was just great.  It was so focused.  Yeah that's the word for it.  So I am glad to have the opportunity to share that.
Yalom:  What about him and the way he was, you think, helped you just to be so, be present, be focused?
Marie:  Well, I got to tell you, the one thing about him is he always has this twinkle in his eye and it's just, it's so marvelous because he you know he just kind of emanates a kindness and a warmth and a non-judgmental kind of attitude.  I mean, he is, he just immediately put me at ease, immediately put me at ease, and that's no easy task where I am concerned you know.  I&mdash;
Douglas:  I can't resist telling you that you have the twinkle in your eyes right now.
Marie:  Oh yeah, oh good.  
Yalom:  I noticed that.
Marie: It's infectious. I love it. Oh well he, it just, I can't speak highly enough about just the feelings that he promotes.  And you know there is a certain amount of safety and support and just all of the&mdash; When I said that I felt kind of like we were in a cocoon.  Well, it is kind of like that.  I mean, there is just a really good environment, and it kind of promoted, his whole stance kind of promoted looking, feeling positive about this.  Maybe you know not, not like dreading it, trying to get into different aspects of my personality, or you know things that you really would prefer not to deal with.  I mean that, it wasn't that way at all.  I mean it was kind of, it was a positive endeavor.  It was a very positive experience, and I think his approach and his mannerisms and his way just encouraged that.  Yeah he's&mdash;
Yalom:  There's a couple of things I am curious about.  One was when he kept commenting on your liveliness, tonality of your voice, being monotone or being more varied, would that make you self conscious or how would that impact you?
Marie:  Well, last week it blew my mind because I said, "My God I have never paid that much attention to what my non-verbal cues mean to someone else," Okay, and that's important.  You know, I mean, and I usually kind of check them out with other people but you don't give, or at least I didn't think in terms of what message I was promoting.  And so his attention to that really staggered me, it really did.  Now today as far as the monotone versus kind of being effervescent, etc, well it's totally&mdash; It didn't make me at all self-conscious.  Well, it kind of did, but then again I just kind of got lost in what we were doing, so I wasn't thinking about myself so much other than the fact that the screen that I had gives out a lot of that.  Anyway, to answer your question, it really, the subject matter bespoke my tonality and it was interesting. But he utilized that as a tool and that's what I found&mdash; You know, I said, "Oh, wow, you know, that's really a cue."  It's kind of like a cue for me to think in terms of that, as well as the message that I am giving out to others.  So it was, that is another powerful aspect of this whole experience, so, yeah.
Yalom:  And the one other thing I was wondering was when he would pause or ask you to pause and kind of check inside internally with what was going on, what was that like for you?
Marie:  Well at first it was uncomfortable.  I think, you know, the old pregnant pause, it's like we should be talking you know. But, and in the very beginning of the session today when he said, "How are you doing," and I immediately said, "Okay." You know, "Okay we've got enough of that thinking about, I am fine, let's just go, go, go".  But it really, I learned in that very short period of time that that is one of the greatest tools is to just have me and take a breath, think about it, check in with myself.  You need the time to do that and it kind of, for me at least, quieted my mind down so my thoughts weren't racing ahead.  And it allowed me to hold on to something and explore it a little deeper.  So, and I don't think that that could have been accomplished without those pauses.  So those pauses were important, and the fact that they might have been mildly uncomfortable in the first 10 minutes became irrelevant because they became such an important part of this whole process.  So, if that makes sense.
Yalom:  I guess just a little, one final thought: It seemed right at the end you were saying you were, it was, not overwhelmed, but there was a lot of stuff you were left with to kind of just think about, or kind of wait further.
Marie:  Yes, yes. And in that, I think there was incredible amount of information that I gathered from the session both kind of with Jim's direction and internally, and he taught me an exercise, so to speak, and that is check in with myself and take that a few steps further.  And it's not something that can be done in any short time.  I mean, that's why the pauses again were so important. I mean, you've just got to take a breath and give yourself the time to kind of explore that.  And all the information, it's I just have to synthesize it all.  I have to think through it, I have to sift through it, and kind of resift through it and in my own natural way there is got to be some sort of acting on it I think, you know.  But, and that acting on it can simply be just contemplating it so.
Sapienza:  Taking your time and sort of letting yourself absorb it.
Marie:  That's&mdash; Absorption is the right term.  I know the last time, and it's something that I wrote down real quick when I got home, after last week it was, I was overwhelmed at how energized I came away from the experience.  It was kind of like, "Oh Monday morning a million things to do," dah-dah-dah, I came here, I got beeped a couple of times at the office when I arrived, they said, "Oh well, only two traumas this morning," you know, dah-dah-dah.  And I left here, and I am like, "wow."  I felt lighter, I felt energized.  It was really, I mean there was like a physical change as well as a mental change, and I anticipate that this will be the same way. I mean, he is just wonderful.
<b>Discussion</b>
Bugental:  I want to comment first of all on how, the relation between the two sessions with Maria.  Last time I couldn't, she is a very contained person, as is obvious, and I don't want to disturb that abruptly without knowing what.  So I think I was rather cautious and didn't confront a whole lot.  So I was interested this time to see how she was when we started out, and everything said she was in good control, so that I could be more active and more confronting. And watching it through, I thought throughout she was handling it well.  She gave us a warning most explicitly at one point when she talked about, she worries, "What if she gave up this control?" So I took that seriously and tried to give her a little reassurance or support that she had control and that she would not have to give it up.  She handles the situation very well. Another thing I might, just in general to start with, is that she does her searching more implicitly&mdash;and I'm gonna talk about searching in a few minutes&mdash;but with some clients it's the language, the word choice is much more subjective than hers.  And it might seem at first that she wasn't really getting into herself, but if became manifest in a number of other ways that she was even though she was using word choice that sounded more objectifying.  
       One thing that was to me quite evocative was the intonations that would come and go in her voice, and I would comment to her and she could use that very well.  She talked very flat and steady for a while and then as she began to really get into it, her voice began to modulate, her face became more mobile.  And when I'd feed that back it was not disruptive.  She could use it, which I thought was very assuring.  If we were working together long-term, I think we could work more and more to get depth of penetration, so to speak, in searching.  But it might or might not be language that we are using in link with being subjective.  I think the great danger is that we get caught on word choice and language rather than watching is something moving, is something opening up, is something changing in her self-perception, is she risking what she has hesitated to risk before, and on all these accounts she certainly was, you know.
Yalom:  That's good to hear because, yeah, I think I got caught a little bit on the word choice because she would talk about herself and as if she was solving a problem still.
Bugental:  That's exactly so.  I at first was very aware of that and concerned, but when I began to notice, wait, she is moving and so that sort of&mdash;
Yalom:  By moving you are referring to all the other nonverbal cues suggested in use.
Bugental:  Yeah and even to the material that she's bringing forth became less and less stuff that she already knew about herself and more and more she could express surprise or reaction to herself, which tells us that she is opening.
Yalom:  And that's the essence of searching, is uncovering new material?
Bugental:  Yeah. I'm glad you are bringing me back to that, Victor, because searching is so central to our work because it's so central to life.  The very fact we are here is part of our individual searches and our collaborative search.  Gary and Jessie are searching in a way by the fact they're here.  What we do is a way that we seek for greater richness of living fulfillment, satisfaction, confirmation, affirmation.  As you all have heard me say I think it's the same thing as the little leaf that is forcing its way up through the dirt or through the cement sometimes to find the sun; that's a searching.
Yalom:  I think it would helpful if you could state more explicitly what you mean by the searching process in psychotherapy?
Bugental:  Well let's see.  Let's make the general statement and then bring in psychotherapy.  The general statement: Searching is to find a way of greater realization of what is potential within us, whether it's a seed coming up through the grass or the ground or whether it's Einstein figuring out the general theory of relativity.  It's a difference in scale but it's the same basic human process, basic life process.  Now, when we talk about searching in therapeutic situation, we are talking about how we are using this opportunity to explore for new perceptions, new awareness, new life experience that would be more fulfilling.  And what we listen for, we therapists listen for, is what gets in the way of that process.  What is the obstacle to the growth that is instinctual, that is inborn?  And then we try to point out&mdash; We don't say get rid of that; we say, notice how that's happening, and so I say to Marie, "That tone of voice, it seems so flat."  That's a resistance, it's an obstacle and you could see the difference when that tone was different and she came to life more.
Sapienza:  And that's what gets in the way for her in her searching, and when she becomes aware of it then&mdash;
Bugental:  Then it begins to loosen up.
Sapienza:  And it did.
Bugental:  Also, of course, what gets in way for her is the need to be efficient, but you know, we need some of those things.  The goal is not to get rid of all these things, but to be selective and to not be constricted to beyond what's necessary.
Douglas:  To choose rather than be chosen by.
Bugental:  Yes, yes right.  Choose rather than be chosen by.  Control as loose, as free, control like driving a car.  You have controlled it in a straight line no matter what.
Yalom:  I guess I was struck by when we had our kind of debriefing with her afterwards, how she talked about how powerful the two sessions were with you.  And it seemed like in that format she was able to be more expressive and the work and the searching was more powerful than she was able to kind of manifest.
Bugental:  In the hour.
Yalom:  In the hour because of her, the way she controls her body and her feelings.
Bugental:  She was on stage trying to do the job.
Douglas:  The second time she was offstage, onstage.
Yalom:  Right.
Douglas:  The whole place you know just&mdash;
Sapienza:  Right.
Bugental:  My hope is with one or two sessions with Marie or with 100 sessions with Joe where there might be, that it would go on after our session.  It would not be only something that happens in the therapeutic hour.  That they would experience that there is more they can have access to more.  It will make life different.
Sapienza:  And that's what Marie was saying that, just that experience of giving herself a moment right in the beginning of the first session. First to notice that she would just automatically say, "fine," and then to take the time to where she said to take a deep breath and give herself that time was an experience that she doesn't do and doesn't have that she says she wants to take out the door with her.
Bugental:  Good.
Sapienza:  So its, that's the hope.
Bugental:  If it only happens in the room, forget it.  Yeah.
Yalom:  But, yeah, that she, just how important that was that you gave her the pause and encouraged her to look inside herself rather than let you "take the lead", as she said.  One time when you asked her to look inside she said, "I'll let you take the lead."
Bugental:  I remember and she laughed.
Yalom:  Yeah. The other thing that struck me about our discussion with her afterwards is her emphasis on how safe she felt.  What you talked about the container, the alliance, and how that obviously had a very powerful effect on her. She was able to kind of be fairly oblivious to the surroundings and really be in the moment with you.
Bugental:  But she can be oblivious&mdash;that gives me a way of making another point&mdash;because we don't deny the surroundings.  If you are trying to say, "Oh, I won't pay any attention to the fact that there is cameras" and so forth, it's just counter-productive because you have got the attention, now you've set another system to fight it, and what's left for being here, you know.
Douglas:  Yeah, you know, it seems like you are very willing to comment on whatever  seems to come into the moment.
Bugental:  Everything is everything is the silly way that I&mdash;
Sapienza:  And that comes to the story that we want to hear, about the client in the next room.
Bugental:  Our office in LA did not have perfect sound insulation between the offices and that particular time that you are reminding me of occurred when I was working rather intensely with someone.  We were very quiet.  Our voices had dropped and so forth.  And suddenly from the next room there was this piercing scream.  We both jumped, and for just a minute I am saying, "Oh should I go do something or something."  And then I realized what was going on and I said to my client, "Somebody is really fighting for their life."  And she burst into tears and said, "Yes, that's what I want to do."  And the temptation was that one scream, but that went to where she was and she was much more in sadness, tears.  But I think we all hunger to get out more, to let out what we feel inside and that's what searching's about.
Douglas:  Well, Marie certainly came out and certainly was touching from over here.
Bugental:  Yeah, I purposely didn't want to be in the scene because I thought she would be able to speak more candidly.
Douglas:  One thing that did intrigue me that, I don't know where this goes but, that she from where I could sit, it seemed like she touched you twice in the session; she touched you on the hand with her hand.  Second time was she was really in the flow by this time and much looser and it was a real dynamic touch, but the first time it was very tentative and just almost maybe barely didn't even touch, but I noticed your hand withdrew and you just stroked it.
Bugental:  Hmmm, I only was aware of one touch and so I am looking forward to seeing the tape.  I don't know which of the two times, you know, because I wasn't aware of this either, you know, withdrawing.  I just remember just a light touch like this.  I felt, at the time I experienced the touch, was aware of it, I felt there was a real sort of bonding.  We are doing this together, you know, and I like that.
Sapienza:  And I was watching Marie's hands after in the debriefing and she was talking about feeling. It was almost like she was feeling held in the situation, and feeling very safe and connected. They were like this often. [Holds out hands palms up and open]
Bugental:  Those are open receptive hands.
Sapienza:  Yeah.  So I think she experienced that, that bonding if you will.  I guess maybe you talked to a little bit about this already, but what would you envision in terms of a longer term therapy with Marie?
Bugental:  Well, for a while I would not do a great deal more than we did this time.  At the end, today, I did make some suggestions about maybe journaling or something to keep it going because in a way&mdash; And also to try to remind her that it wasn't that she figured things out today but that she discovered.  Her tendency is of course to figure things out and that's great, but it has been for her, in what word, a constriction that she tries to objectify herself and figure things out.  And what I tried to help her do today is to discover not by objectification, but by subjectification, if you will, so that there was more to be found inside her than she could just know.
Yalom:  She commented at the end that in some way you were talking about things, you know, her need for control and perfection that she knew about herself and yet somehow she had a deeper or fuller awareness of that.
Bugental:  Yeah, that was&mdash; I wish there were a chance to explore what she was seeing at the end.  I thought it was pregnant, that it had a lot of possibly for further exploration, so if we were to have further sessions I would like to know something more of what she was getting at there.  She was sensing that she had been exploring within herself in a different way and yet there was a way in which I felt she was trying to get it back into her familiar phrasings and so on.  And so it would be a useful thing if we went on to watch for that and help her see how much she still relies on "thinking about," manifested by all of her qualified phrases all throughout: "I think, I guess, it seems as though, it might be." It's alright, they loosened up a little bit and she did her job, but if we were longer term I would probably reflect how cautious she is in making any statement about herself and that would open something else up, I don't know what.
Yalom:  But I think you struck a nice balance between highlighting an awareness of that, but not pursuing it too aggressively, and I think that's what let her feel safe and supported that you too had a non-judgmental or non-critical stance.
Bugental:  If she weren't doing the good work she was doing then it might pay to come in, but she was doing, she was doing fine for her 2nd interview. Wow.
Yalom:  I think, I know myself when I first studied with you and kind of learned some of your techniques and other people I have seen.  There is a tendency to want to take a little bit of a good thing, which is kind of awareness to the process awareness, to resistance in the moment and really go, go with it and&mdash;
Bugental:  You are quite right.  I think we all, I do that at times too, sure.  But if I can keep enough perspective, I want to watch what's happening.  Are we opening up new territory?  Is that life force finding a way through a little more?
Douglas:  Is there an end do you think to the new territory that can be opened up in this process?
Bugental:  No, isn't that wonderful?
Yalom:  I think you knew how he was going to answer that.
Douglas:  I had a pretty good idea.
Bugental:  It's a good setup for me.
Yalom:  But there is there is an end to this discussion.
Douglas:  Yes.
Sapienza:  Yes, I think we've hit it. 
Bugental:  Okay.
Credits
&copy; 1995, 2006 Psychotherapy.net LLC
