TRANSCRIPT OF AUDIO FILE:
______________________________________________________________________________
BEGIN TRANSCRIPT:
CLIENT: I guess it's the inconvenient part of having the recorder face my way. It should be upside down. It does not switch toward you or . . ?
THERAPIST: The screen will switch towards me as soon as I pick it up, like I could have picked it up. 
CLIENT: You just channel it my way. (both laugh)
THERAPIST: Exactly.
CLIENT: (pause) James's settling in. He has all of the places to get local food, which is nice. This morning we went to get him an extended visitor's pass. . . 
THERAPIST: For parking?
CLIENT: Yeah, for parking. Apparently it's insanely crowded and so we got two street-sweeping tickets in the first three days. I don't know if I told you that. The woman at the window says, "Talk to the appeals guy. He's really nice." So this guy waived one of them. That was nice. It's hard to be sad around James in ways that are good and bad. It's just a real comfort for him to be here. We had a dinner last night and stuff like that. But in the last ten minutes of sitting down I'm like "Oh, I'm really sad." (laughs) Yeah. I've kind of told him most of what we were talking about yesterday, the fact that this is going on. I don't know what to do about it. Just keep talking. It's hard. (pause) He got really upset last night. He found out that the visitor parking permit that he has that's keeping him from getting a ticket is only two days, and so in order to get a residential permit he would need proof of residency, which I had, but he would also need the car to be registered here, which it isn't yet. [00:02:51] I think the title and deed to the car that he would need to do that, he left in storage. It's a mess. 
THERAPIST: They just charge you $300 for parking tickets when you move here and then give you a ticket. (both laugh)
CLIENT: Basically. I mean as we were walking back today it was kind of like, "Well, every time you're in a new place I think you end up paying for your ignorance in one way or another." I'm not happy about it, but that's how it goes. [00:03:27]
THERAPIST: The parking is so tough and restricted, bureaucratic.
CLIENT: Yeah. And, you know, when we talked to the actual bureaucrat he was pretty nice, but he was also like, "You have to be on your toes around here." He said that. (laughs) So, fine. James was very upset and angry and I got very upset and scared in the way that I do when James is angry—not at me, but when he's just upset. Like I don't know what to do. I feel as though I want to talk and help, but when I do he will lash out at me sometimes and I don't like doing that. But then if I don't say anything, I'm not interested or helping him and it's just one of those recurring things for us. James's got a lot of anger and so what he did last night, which is what he does often, is he just left the room and took it somewhere else until he could get it under control and that wasn't very much fun.
THERAPIST: Does he have a scary temper?
CLIENT: He could. (pause) It's hard for me to tell. I mean he gets really angry, but he keeps it very much under control in the sense that he doesn't take it out on me very often. (laughs) As in the sense that he never feels justified in taking it out on me and he always will say, "Yeah, that was unacceptable." [00:06:12]
THERAPIST: What does it look like when he takes it out on you?
CLIENT: Just snapping at me, really. Saying something hurtful. Yeah. It's hard for me to tell because I know when he's angry even if he's not saying anything and I find it really, really, really scary; and so I can't—and I don't have a really good framework for what people being angry in healthy ways looks like. (chuckles) His mom just yells and just gets it all out on the table and the first few time we had a fight I was kind of like, "You can't do that. I can't handle that." (pause) When he's angry at me it's really not bad often because that's like when we're having a fight we kind of know what the terms are. (pause) We'll leave and then come back and talk about it. We can usually keep talking even if we're both upset and get to a resolution. [00:08:17] When he's angry about something else around me is when I just get very, very, very scared. Acting like I'm in the room. I should fix it. I can't fix it. Anything I do or don't do could set him off. It's unclear to me whether that is something that's coming from James or something that's coming from me, probably some of both. I mean more than usually is, but I don't know. (pause) Yeah. So last night I (sighs) made a couple of suggestions and he goes, "Ehh, but this." They weren't as clear and they weren't really helping so we just went back to watching TV in the room and that was it. Eventually he came back in, we sat down, he worked it out, and we said, "Okay, we'll do this tomorrow," and did it or something. [00:09:38] (pause) Yeah. It's like I can't think well when this happens. I know James pretty well. I know he's not going to hit me, for example, but in that moment I think he's going to. (long pause) (chuckles) I've got these long lists of things to do today and there's a lot. (chuckles) [00:11:16]
THERAPIST: It doesn't sound like you emotionally crashed yesterday. Is that right?
CLIENT: Not really, no. I mean it was more like I came back and I was just really sad for a while in a kind of "walking through jello" kind of way. I couldn't really do anything or focus on anything. I sat, and then kind of picked up in the afternoon. Right before going to sleep I cried pretty hard for a bit, but it wasn't like huge. [00:12:28]
THERAPIST: That's it?
CLIENT: Yeah. (pause) Yeah. I don't feel as tired.
THERAPIST: Good.
CLIENT: Or at the end of my rope as I did. Kind of like, "Okay, we're here. What's the next thing we can do?" Then I came up with what the next things are and I'm thinking, "Oh, God." (laughs) Back and forth. (pause) Sometimes I like the way I live alone. I mean, in a lot of ways it's not good. You know, I think for James and I, we kind of tend to agree most of the time. I jaywalk. James doesn't. (both laugh) Part of me thinks that after about two to three weeks he will also jaywalk, and part of me thinks that, no, James is nothing if not stubborn. (both laugh) (pause) [00:14:45] Of course, that leads to endless, detailed, involved conversations about when it's acceptable to jaywalk like how you, as a pedestrian, interact with the cars. (both laugh) Get everybody where they're going as fast as possible. (laughs) We overthink things. (sniggers) (pause) I'm worried that James's . . . James falls into apathy as kind of the way depression hits him. He just doesn't do anything. We can't really afford for him to not find a job, (sniggers) but I'm not sure I can do anything about that. I worry about that. [00:16:03] (pause) I still don't have a job so . . . (pause) Yeah, it's like we've put ourselves into this situation that's completely untenable in the long run, trusting that something will come through when we've been trusting that something will come through for the last year and nothing has come through. I don't know. [00:17:01]
THERAPIST: What thing?
CLIENT: I'm saying I will take a leave of absence and find a job and get better and get back to work. I take a leave of absence and can't find a job and not getting better. I don't know. For now we are both in the city but neither of us has a job. I can't stop worrying about it even though I really should not worry about it. James's on top of it. My parents are on top of it. His parents are on top of it. It's okay, but I can't stop worrying. [00:18:02]
THERAPIST: And the worry is neither of you will have jobs and you'll be destitute? 
CLIENT: Something like that. Yeah. Yeah. It isn't going to happen or if neither of us finds jobs that's not going to play out but . . . 
THERAPIST: So that's what the worry is? Whatever the realities are that you're scared of.
CLIENT: Yeah. 
THERAPIST: I would imagine for you, too, it sort of feels like being in a kind of free-fall. [00:19:04]
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: With no sense of a net. 
CLIENT: (whispers) More. And that I think, "Well, I could just work harder. I could get out of this situation." It is kind of like I've written like 30 cover letters and it's kind of like I just threw them out the window and that's how it goes; but it's not as though I'm not working, (laughs) so I don't know. [00:20:09] I feel like I don't have any way to control whether or when we'll get out of this situation. (pause) It's my fault that we're in this situation in the first place. That's not fun. [ ] (inaudible at 00:20:39) tell myself it's not my fault, et cetera, et cetera; but—whatever. That doesn't register. (pause) [00:21:15]
THERAPIST: I (pause) imagine you sort of feel emotionally in free-fall and as though James can't catch you or really slow you and I can't slow you either.
CLIENT: Yeah. Yeah. There's the hope but not the expectation. [00:22:04]
THERAPIST: And I think also not the feeling that it's happening in the present.
CLIENT: (sniggers)
THERAPIST: And (long pause) [00:23:06]
CLIENT: It feels like we're kind of stuck this week so far, and I'm not sure why [we're convening at least.] (ph)
THERAPIST: Tell me what comes to mind.
CLIENT: I don't know. I feel like we're not communicating as well or not as fully, if that makes sense.
THERAPIST: Are there moments when you're actually aware of that?
CLIENT: Like right now it kind of feels like you were searching for something to say (laughs) or something to kind of grab hold onto from what I've said. I don't know how to talk about things better. (sniggers) [00:24:23]
THERAPIST: In a way it feels like I'm not really finding things to get ahold of in what you say, but sometimes you're sort of doing the best you can to say what you can? 
CLIENT: I think so, but it's harder for me to talk right now than it usually is, and I don't know why. Yeah. (pause) [00:25:14]
THERAPIST: Do you think it has to do with James being in town?
CLIENT: That was the first thing that came to mind. I don't know.
THERAPIST: I'm wondering if you feel at some level like maybe talking as candidly as you can about how you're feeling or what's going on with you in your emotional life, you should be talking to him.
CLIENT: Maybe. Maybe. I mean the angle that I was think of is that having James with me all the time in some ways makes it harder for me to think on my own or . . . yeah. Harder for me to have the time that I usually have and just think clearly. That makes it then harder for me to talk about what's going on with you because I'm not really processing it or experiencing it in my life. (laughs) Maybe. [00:26:58]
THERAPIST: Does it feel like there is something different about me?
CLIENT: It feels like you have less of a read on me than you typically do, to me at least. (pause) 
THERAPIST: I'm less clear where you're coming from or how to get at the things that you're talking about.
CLIENT: Yeah. (pause) [00:28:07] This is very confusing. (sniffles) I like spending time with James. I like him being here.
THERAPIST: Yeah. (pause) It does seem as though it sort of, among other factors, may be making you kind of pull your emotions in a little bit more.
CLIENT: Yeah. [00:29:05]
THERAPIST: I mean, there not there, so we can't find them.
CLIENT: Yeah, I don't know what to do about that. (laughs) It doesn't feel like I'm sad. Am I sad? (laughs) 
THERAPIST: Well, you can usually find out later. In other words, you often know after you've had a tough weekend or a tough visit with somebody or something that's been really stressful, that there's a lot that's bottled up that you haven't had time to . . . 
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: There are many other times that you don't know that you're as upset as you are and then you get hit by it and I've seen that, too. Sometimes in the moment it isn't clear.
CLIENT: Yeah. Sometimes.
THERAPIST: Clearly part of this is being happy to have James here and to be done with the move. Settled.
CLIENT: Well. Halfway done with the move. [00:30:45]
THERAPIST: And I guess it's hard to tell how much of it is not wanting to be upset about James or being a little more restrained or more close to the vest. I mean you don't want to be upset. It's not about that. Either/or but something a bit like that. In that direction. [00:31:17]
CLIENT: Yeah. (pause) The thing is I kind of feel like I should be talking with James about these things and I don't know how to talk with James about them. We go pretty well, but it's hard and in some ways when I try to explain the way something works in my mind or some kind of emotional logic, I can't explain it when I'm in it. I have to be kind of at home with discussing it, and so that throws me off. (pause) 
THERAPIST: I kind of imagine part of it is also I would think it's kind of scary to be here. [00:32:39]
CLIENT: Why?
THERAPIST: Talk about scary things.
CLIENT: (laughs) You mean just like in general or not specifically?
THERAPIST: No, no. General.
CLIENT: I don't know about that. I mean it's scary that I have to go do the rest of my day.
THERAPIST: Yeah. I guess I've been a little leery of that. It's not that I doubt that it's true because I know that it's true. You do, in fact, have to go throughout the rest of your day, beginning with however you're feeling when you walk out of here. [00:33:48]
CLIENT: Then that feels kind of like an excuse.
THERAPIST: A little. 
CLIENT: That's fair. (laughs)
THERAPIST: Or something that's true being used a bit as an excuse, I guess is how it really seems to me.
CLIENT: Yeah. That makes sense. It's like I haven't listened to music very much for a while for a long time. I realize this because we listened to a lot of music in the truck driving and I listened to music pretty much all day last Friday when I was taking a train and then a bus to get to James. It's just too emotionally powerful, like it becomes overwhelming for me. [ ] (inaudible at 00:34:55) (pause) Part of me wants the relief of kind of being there, but it's also I realize it's very scary and I'm never sure that there's going to be a bottom to how sad I am. [00:35:37]
THERAPIST: Right. (pause) And I think you tend to feel much more worried when there are other people mixed up in it, because they'll feel kind of down or they'll get mad at you.
CLIENT: Yeah. (pause) It's just other people being there makes it very difficult for me to be sad. I just think even if I try not to, I just like shut it off. That's about as bad as it gets. (pause) [00:37:12] The way yesterday on the walk home I ran into a friend and said "hello." He was coming in the opposite direction and I just kept walking and I just started crying as I was walking down the street. I don't know what to do about that. (sniggers) The street wasn't very crowded. (pause)
THERAPIST: Do you know what made you sad? What made you start to cry? [00:37:59]
CLIENT: Just, you know, this guy is real nice and asked how the job hunt was going. Nothing new. Just . . . I think having acted as though [things that I will ever do in my writing or had to act as though I would or feeling like I had to.] (ph) You know, he's a student. Wanting to be working at things that I like and seeing how far away I am from where I would like to be. (long pause) [00:40:02] It's less like free-falling and more like trying to swim for shore when the shore is much too far away. (pause) [00:41:04]
THERAPIST: I guess I imagine these things might be the different sides of your ambivalence about letting people in on what you're feeling. I mean mostly unconsciously of them, I think. A lot of them you don't control consciously, but on one side you're so worried; but on the other side you're wanting to keep things to yourself or you need to create something of your own space. On the other side that makes people feel so far away. Or like this can't be helped. (pause) I think part of [ ] (inaudible at 00:42:26) or beyond help or beyond being reached is just fear. I think part of it is probably something you want it to be. It feels like it's the only safe way that it could be. That's not very clear. What I mean is (pause) I think some of why you feel like shore is so far away is because that's where the other people are. It's safer in one way for them to be very far away from what you're feeling, although it's terribly isolating and hopeless and overwhelming for them to be so far away, too. Or us, speaking as another human being. (both laugh)
CLIENT: Yeah. That makes sense. It's a disappointment also, in that there have been a lot of people that have asked to help me that have failed in one way or another, and so that makes it harder or it makes it . . . yeah. [00:44:38]
THERAPIST: I see, that contributes to it becoming, I think, so we also have demonstrated that we often are very far away or out of touch with what's going on with you.
CLIENT: It's like I told you that being in the boat with papa and getting stranded and having to kayak for help, I would have been fine. I would have made it if . . . I've never flipped a kayak before; but a boat went by and so I waived my arms and I waived for help and I overbalanced and I flipped the kayak. I had to drag it to shore. It's like that. [00:45:19]
THERAPIST: I remember that was a funny story, but you were basically just trying to get somebody's attention.
CLIENT: Yeah. And this asshole just kept going. (laughs)
THERAPIST: I see. That would probably be all of us at one time or another. (laughs)
CLIENT: It's not so much blame as disappointment. Sometimes I'm angry but most of the time it just didn't happen. People do the best they can but it doesn't work.
THERAPIST: We need to stop for now but we'll talk more tomorrow.
END TRANSCRIPT
