TRANSCRIPT OF AUDIO FILE:
______________________________________________________________________________
BEGIN TRANSCRIPT:
CLIENT: I was on time today.
THERAPIST: And I was so late.
CLIENT: That's okay. I don't get annoyed at all when people are late.
THERAPIST: Why do you like being on time?
CLIENT: I like being on time but I don't like why I was on time. I was on time because I had to throw out an experiment today because I didn't get there in time to catch my cells when they were supposed to be dealt with, so I had a much freer day than I expected. Had I gone through with the experiment I probably would have been very late, which would have been better in the grand scheme of things. [00:01:03]
Jeremy talked to his boss and it was incredible. She (pause for .03 seconds) she completely—she just sort of embraced him, not physically but with her words and with her actions, and explained that his performance is not a failure and that he is very, very bright and competent, and someone like him should not be working in a job that makes him suffer so much.
And they talked for an hour and a half, and I think Jeremy revealed almost everything that he could. She, um, she got right to work—she changed his job description. She's reducing the amount of time that he has to work on these tedious brain-scans, and Jeremy suggested a couple of new tasks that he would be happier doing. [00:02:13]
She cancelled a job search and put Jeremy on a task for something they wanted to hire someone for. Um, and they discussed how it would be totally fine if Jeremy wanted to leave the job too, and she would keep him employed until he found something else, and she'd write him a good recommendation letter.
THERAPIST: Wow.
CLIENT: I know. I'm not too surprised but I'm really happy for Jeremy—who I had asked what is your ideal outcome of this conversation and it's almost exactly what happened. 
THERAPIST: That's fantastic. [00:03:01]
CLIENT: Yeah. So we had a really nice celebration and I heard some types of language from him that I've never heard before, which is like self-awareness about the career—the type of career that would be good for him, said in a positive way (pause for .04 seconds) which almost made me feel like I was talking to a different person.
THERAPIST: Wow.
CLIENT: And this morning it was like, "This is the first day of my new job," and (pause for .03 seconds) yeah, I can already tell it's (pause for .06 seconds) how much healthier it is for both of us. [00:03:56]
He's more (pause for .10 seconds) I was going to say he's more focused on me –
THERAPIST: (laughs)
CLIENT: but that's not quite what it is. It's more that the nature of his focus is different; it's more constructive and positive. So I was really upset about missing my experiment today because this is the thing that's happened for like 15 times now, where it takes 36 hours and you have to start it either really early in the morning or really late at night to catch it at a time that's reasonable.
So I successfully did repeat number one yesterday. I went through with the experiment and I'll get the results back next week; this was supposed to be repeat number two. The reason why I missed it is because last night (pause for .05 seconds) last night I drank a beer at this restaurant, and it was great. [00:05:12]
And I'm working on increasing my tolerance, which is something that makes me very happy (pause for .03 seconds) as someone who really enjoys beer, so this is maybe night number four that I've had a beer at night. Maybe I was tired, maybe the dinner I ate was not substantive [sic] enough; it was more than a 12 ounce beer, a little more than a pint, which is I guess a lot for my body right now. 
So I felt sort of fine. The alcohol is definitely strange on the Zoloft (pause for .05 seconds) but I didn't go over any limits. I felt fine. So we went home and I decided, since I started the higher dose of Zoloft, I've started taking Ativan at night because it—[00:06:24]
THERAPIST: Um hmm. Zoloft's so activating.
CLIENT: It's so activating so when I wake up in the middle of the night, if I've taken Ativan, I can go back to sleep really easily. But I didn't take it tonight because I was feeling like even though it had been two hours that there might have been some alcohol still in my system.
Ativan plus alcohol is really bad for me. So then I woke up at 5:00 in the morning, feeling completely hung over and really, really tired, but still really activated. [00:07:04]
THERAPIST: When did you go to bed?
CLIENT: 11:30. So, you know, if you woke up after 6 ½ hours you wouldn't expect to necessarily feel like really, really crumby. You might feel tired, but, um, yeah the closest thing I can describe it as is being hung over.
So I wasn't getting back to sleep either and I felt sort of loopy and sick. I took an Ativan and then felt terrible, and I don't see how there could have still been alcohol in my system eight hours later. But it's as if there was because I felt almost like I was blacking out, except I was so tired that it was unclear whether I was just falling asleep but with such intensity that it felt very unnatural. [00:08:13]
So I (pause for .04 seconds) so eventually I went to sleep and woke up, and had a lot of trouble waking up and still felt very tired. I went through my normal shower and yoga and breakfast, and found myself actually falling asleep while eating breakfast and during the shower. I fell asleep. And it wasn't one of those 'do ten jumping jacks and go on my bike ride to work and it'll go away'—it was like, "I don't know that I can do my experiments right now." So —
THERAPIST: What time was this, ish? [00:09:02]
CLIENT: Um, 9:00. (pause for .05 seconds) I had gotten back to sleep by 6:00, and I woke up at 8:00. So I decided to go back to sleep, and I slept for three hours and um, felt a lot better, as I usually do when something like this happens. But then this like, all of these worries came to the surface. When I was making the decision it was like, "Well this is what graduate school is for." 
This is sort of why I don't have a real job, because I really like to be able to take the liberty to sleep in when I need to, and I really want to do a good job when I'm there, rather than show up and do a bad job and leave at 4:00. [00:10:12]
Anyway, so but when I woke up I felt much better and I got on my bike, and it felt great to ride my bike; but I started—all of this internal chatter started and the nature of it was very much like, "Ah, I might be missing my cells. I might have missed it."
THERAPIST: Would you have wanted to be in to be safe?
CLIENT: So that was the other problem: I thought that 12:30 was going to be the safe time but yesterday the safe time was 11:30 and I forgot that. I thought it was 12:30. So even then, I got there at 12:45 and (pause for .03 seconds) a person who really, really wanted to be safe wouldn't have gotten there at 12:45. [00:11:10]
So I was like, "Argh, I wonder if I'm missing it. This feels awful. I've been doing this for 2 ½ months. This is time number in the teens now."
THERAPIST: But you've—certainly you've made it in past safe time.
CLIENT: Um, it's time number in the teens for an experiment that isn't going to be finished.
THERAPIST: Okay.
CLIENT: So like for lots and lots of different reasons, but this is the most common one.
THERAPIST: Right.
CLIENT: And like yesterday it was a really big deal that I got in in time. My mom called me and ah, asked like if I had made it in time cause I had talked a lot about it. Jeremy called me and asked, um, what? [00:12:01]
THERAPIST: (laughs) Well, it sort of starts to sound a little suspicious. I mean (pause for .09 seconds) as though you have some hidden interest in not getting in in time.
CLIENT: I just feel like a moron. I don't know what it is. (pause for .12 seconds) What I feel, like in my gut, is that I really, really, really want this little tiny step one of 5,000 to be over, and all I have to do is probably one maybe two more of this particular experiment of these particular strains. [00:13:03]
It has been dragging on for so long and I've gotten into such an upsetting pattern that I wonder if I'm—if it's easier for me to be in this pattern than to break it.
THERAPIST: Well, (pause for .06 seconds) I wonder (pause for .04 seconds) if you have like an unconscious wish not to move ahead with the experiment possibly because you're feeling kind of mixed about doing things that will sort of, about being in a sense more grown-up and getting less help. [00:14:08]
CLIENT: Um hmm.
THERAPIST: Doing it more on your own.
CLIENT: (pause for .03 seconds) Like it feels kind of good to have this like big community effort going to this –
THERAPIST: It makes me, ah, (pause for .03 seconds) wonder if in addition to how sort of stressed out you were feeling and how awful things were feeling before you got really upset and went to talk to Kelly (ph), if there was like some other pressure or inclination to get yourself into a situation where you would need to go and lean on her in some way.
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: Ah, to be in a position to be given to like that. [00:15:03]
CLIENT: Rather than take it. Um, yeah, I think (pause for .04 seconds) I would've preferred to not reach such an emotional climax but certainly that is one path to relief and was the one that I took for whatever reason. 
Um, (pause for .04 seconds) I am seeking (pause for .09 seconds) I really want Kelly (ph) to tell me that it's fine and that's how science goes. I really wanted her to tell me that today.
THERAPIST: Umm.
CLIENT: But I avoided talking to her because I didn't want to tell her that I missed—I just didn't want to bring it up. But I didn't need to. She's not a hands-on PI like that. [00:16:11]
THERAPIST: Um hmm.
CLIENT: But I somehow thought (pause for .03 seconds) that I might be bothering her.
THERAPIST: Um hmm.
CLIENT: But you're right—I would feel a lot better if she were (pause for .04 seconds) well actually I told a couple of people in lab and I told Jeremy, and all of those people gave me some variation of positive-nurturing-keep-going kind of a response. (pause for .12 seconds) [00:17:00]
So I wonder if I'm seeking that?
THERAPIST: Or I imagine you're of two minds about it (ph).
CLIENT: Um hmm.
THERAPIST: Kind of seeking that on one hand and getting really mad at yourself –
CLIENT: Um hmm.
THERAPIST: for not (pause for .06 seconds) feeling effective (inaudible at 00:17:24)
CLIENT: Yeah. (pause for .07 seconds) I totally feel stuck. (pause for .10 seconds) and it's the kind of stuck that like getting some tiny piece of good data will make me un-stuck. (pause for .06 seconds) Like I need a carrot, (pause for .04 seconds) a scientific carrot. [00:18:10]
THERAPIST: Right.
CLIENT: The other thing is; I have this like really neat, um, like system of rewards in line and (pause for .04 seconds) today everything like fits in in terms of the motivational structure. Yesterday was a really lovely celebration and today I really wanted to get into lab early, like before 9:00, and um, cause like I knew that I was going to be leaving early, and I'm eating dinner with a friend tonight, and I get to go to meditation. [00:19:05]
And all of those things are me-time; not lab, not um, you know they're just sort of really nice things. Tomorrow's Friday and I'm going to a great friend's birthday party, and then we're going to the mountains on Saturday, and today was sort of the last big push before all of these lovely, um, treats.
And when you remove the big push part, then it just becomes like—it almost feels like I don't want to do any of these things and I just want to stay home this weekend so that I could start the next experiment today, and do the next step tomorrow and then do the next step on Sunday, which is when it would be ready. [00:20:06]
And that feels like it would bring a lot of relief to this stuck feeling, which is like, "Keep pushing forward—don't let it stop your momentum," and instead, like we're coming back late Monday night so it's really unfeasible for me to get to where I was today until next Friday. And that's a long time—I feel it's like a long time.
But of course I'm working on other things but they aren't in as urgent or dire place as this is. (pause for .05 seconds) And all I could think about on my bike ride was like all of the people interactions. [00:21:02] 
So I missed a seminar this morning that I was fine missing, but my friend in the post-doc lab—one of the post-docs Joanne helps organize it—so I was thinking of this like repeat track like, "Oh, when I see Joanne I'm going to tell her why I missed the seminar but I really don't want to see her right at the beginning because I really have to get X, Y, and Z started in order to get out in time. But I don't want to be rude to her cause I really want to see her." [00:21:35]
And, "Oh, but I feel so terrible about what happened in the middle of the night and it really throws me off when my body is off," and on and on and on. It was so annoying. I'm trying to remember what some of the other content was. (pause for .04 seconds) That was most of it. [00:22:03]
(pause for .05 seconds) And the other part of me was like, "This is what's on the stage in your mind right now and it's just another play, and it's just going to keep playing, and that's okay." So there was that component which I've been building in meditation that felt good, but um, it's much quieter. 
THERAPIST: Yeah. 
CLIENT: (pause for .07 seconds) And like it's also like Jeremy just got this great boon and did this incredible thing to shift his life in such a positive way. It took so much effort, and shouldn't that be really giving me a sense of perspective that it's just fine, it's fine—I can have my treats without the big push. And I can come back next week and will feel really good and relaxed. [00:23:22]
THERAPIST: Or maybe because he's now so much more okay, you can fall apart.
CLIENT: Um hmm. (pause for .08 seconds) Yeah I'm thinking when the possibility of his not working was coming up that maybe that would get me a little more in line in PHD work.
THERAPIST: Uh huh.
CLIENT: Cause like I would be the only income and sort of the stable one who really needs to just be stable right now. Yeah, that was an interesting thought. [00:24:14]
(pause for .17 seconds) So how can I like not want all of this nurturing and do my grown-up experiments? It's not obvious what I can change. It's like when I was late like 80 times my senior year in high school, which I mentioned before, which is just like this things that I could never—I could never change it. [00:25:04]
THERAPIST: (pause for .16 seconds) Well, (pause for .22 seconds) I guess in my mind the mark of something like (ph) you tend to act—you and the rest of us—tend to act on feelings we can't accept or are in a lot of conflict over. [00:26:10]
And (pause for .06 seconds) it's when we can like recognize them in action, sort of bear them –
CLIENT: Um hmm.
THERAPIST: and have a perspective on them that they don't—that we don't sort of tend to (pause for .06 seconds) um, (inaudible at 00:26:52) feel compelled to act without realizing that in some way. (ph) 
CLIENT: (pause for .15 seconds) I really want a lovely piece of data that I can like run into Kelly's office with (pause for .03 seconds) and pin up on her desk and write down on my stuff that I did in grad school, a note card—which I started to make myself feel better about all the days that I didn't do anything. But I haven't updated that in a long time.
That is the strongest feeling that I have towards all of this. It's not—I really want to continue to be nurtured about like being a moron. [00:28:01]
(pause for .11 seconds) But maybe, I don't know, maybe I'm not hearing that part.
THERAPIST: Yeah, you sound quite frustrated with yourself. I mean, when you say your strongest feeling is not wanting to be nurtured for being a moron. 
CLIENT: Um hmm.
THERAPIST: (laughs) 
CLIENT: Yeah, I'm pretty frustrated —
THERAPIST: Yeah.
CLIENT: (pause for .06 seconds) cause I think I know the path is paved with so much, so many obstacles that I can't control and this is something that I pretty much have complete control over, which is like when I show up. [00:29:08]
THERAPIST: (pause for .18 seconds) Um, (pause for .23 seconds) –
CLIENT: But it was sort of like this hopeful thinking thing again, this morning. I thought, "Oh I have to be there by 12:30," and then at 12:10 when I still hadn't left yet—I was eating Triscuits—I was like, "Well, I can be five minutes late." [00:30:16]
And actually I woke up at 11:00 for like a second and didn't—it just didn't seem worth it to get out of bed yet. (pause for .04 seconds) It's almost like, "It's all going to be fine. I just need to like –"
THERAPIST: Yeah, so there it is too, I think like—'it's going to be fine, I'm tired, I can take care of myself, it's part of why I've arranged my life this way' –
CLIENT: Um hmm.
THERAPIST: 'I can sort of be nurturing.' I think that's what, part of what is so hard to give up. [00:31:01]
CLIENT: Yeah. (pause for .11 seconds) It was really hard to imagine going into lab at 9:00, (pause for .06 seconds) exactly because of that.
THERAPIST: (pause for .11 seconds) It was very cozy, nurturing.
CLIENT: It's pretty luxurious to go back to bed at 9:00 a.m.
THERAPIST: (laughs)
CLIENT: Yeah, it is cozy, (pause for .03 seconds) except that when you wake up again it's not all cozy. It's like, "Ahh!" Like, "I want to talk to Joanne but I don't have time and I'm going to be late for Ethan and I might have missed my cells, and what am I doing?" [00:32:06]
THERAPIST: This seems to me also related to that dream that we were talking about last week, I think, with the thick carpet.
CLIENT: Um hmm.
THERAPIST: (pause for .05 seconds) Um, (pause for .32 seconds) I guess I do take your point that at nine o'clock until about noon, it's really nice to be able to go back to bed at 9:00. 
But after that it's not so nice. [00:33:15]
CLIENT: No, it's horrible. It's like—why didn't I just go to lab? And I think I was really afraid that something really bad was going to happen to my body. 
THERAPIST: (pause for .03 seconds) When were you?
CLIENT: When—like at 9:00 when I was deciding whether to go back to sleep, it was like, "Oh my God, I'm falling asleep. And I still feel hung over." And—
THERAPIST: Do you know what you were afraid was going to happen?
CLIENT: Ah, I think I was afraid that I was going to throw up or faint cause those were the feelings that I had at 9:00. Or that I was going to have to stop my experiment in the middle and leave all my mess and go home. [00:34:03]
Also like I, you know, I bike for 25 minutes and it's like—I don't think I was comfortable getting on my bike. But I didn't have to bike—I could have taken the M too which was really fast. So it was like, "No. I want to bike and I want to get there and I want to feel good. So I'm going to sleep."
But I didn't set an alarm and I considered setting an alarm and I was like, "No. I just need to stop thinking about stuff. Just go to sleep." There was just a very, very cozy sense to it but it was partly driven by fear of what would happen if I didn't go to sleep. (pause for .03 seconds) And this has come up again and again in my life; where my tolerance of lack of sleep is extremely low compared to people around me. (pause for .04 seconds) Or my anxiety—[00:35:10]
THERAPIST: Yeah, yeah you have two responses; one of which is I really want to crawl back into bed and the other of which is to be quite anxious –
CLIENT: I was very anxious.
THERAPIST: that you're going to hurt yourself —
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: or something bad is going to happen. You'll be out of control.
CLIENT: And things like that have happened. Like I fainted in an airport in a bathroom (pause for .03 seconds) next to the trash can, and I fainted in a market place in India two years before that. I fell on the pavement. But my doctor/aunt was there the second time; my mom was there the first time. [00:36:00]
And there's all these other things: I've fainted in a club and I had a seizure-type thing two years ago. 
THERAPIST: Oh. Huh.
CLIENT: Have I told you about the ten times I've fainted? Those are three. Those were the scariest ones. I fainted on the tarmac at the airport.
THERAPIST: Like literally on the tarmac?
CLIENT: Uh huh.
THERAPIST: Wow.
CLIENT: That was the first time, when I was 16. I fainted in jazz band after giving blood. Um, the second time was in India—three of the times were in India. The first time in India was; we were about to go on a long trip to the Taj Mahal and I had sunstroke and a stomach thing. [00:37:00]
(phone rings) 
CLIENT: Sorry.
THERAPIST: That's alright.
CLIENT: I had no anxiety about fainting at that point so I don't remember, um, feeling anxious at all.
THERAPIST: So there's some sense of pushing yourself.
CLIENT: Um hmm.
THERAPIST: Being in danger –
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: that goes along with a lot of that.
CLIENT: Yes.
THERAPIST: (pause for .06 seconds) And that um, —
CLIENT: Yes. All of those times could've been interpreted as: you're sick—don't go on this trip. You're tired—don't get on the plane. You have your period—don't do whatever. You smoked weed and drank and like don't go into this crowded club—go home. [00:37:59]
But I don't know anyone my age who makes those decisions. That's really boring. And I actually make those decisions a lot more than people I know. I'm pretty cautious because of all the anxiety.
Still someone like Jeremy would be like—actually he was this morning, like," Get up. Get up. Get up. It's fine. You're going to be fine—you're just tired." Yeah. 
THERAPIST: (pause for .40 seconds) Yeah, I guess I wonder if these things go together; the giving thing, like giving to me (ph) and giving to you on the one side –
CLIENT: Um hmm. [00:39:24]
THERAPIST: and the worries about pushing yourself on the other. (pause for .06 seconds) And that sort of, if those things are of a key that (ph)—kind of in opposition to what you sort of more consciously say you want the most, such as the gold star at work or –
CLIENT: Um hmm.
THERAPIST: other things like that. [00:40:01]
CLIENT: Um hmm. 
THERAPIST: I mean, there's nothing to say that (pause for .04 seconds) it seems clear that (pause for .06 seconds) the labs are sort of being given to you; and sleep, and being worried about pushing yourself in certain ways too much (ph)—those do seem like powerful enough factors to have contributed to like, messing up your timing this morning.
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: I mean I can't say for sure that that's what it was but it was possible.
CLIENT: Um hmm. [00:40:56]
THERAPIST: And, you know, just thinking of other things like the dreams and sort of lab and home, and thinking about Jeremy, and yeah.
CLIENT: And yeah I can't be at peace. I mean, I will be. At this time tomorrow I'll have reached some resolutions about it, but somehow it takes a long time to get –
THERAPIST: Well this is what we're worrying about is that you're really not at peace about this—that's the problem.
CLIENT: No, I'm not.
THERAPIST: And I think it's that conflictedness that can lead to things like this; where you really very strongly want two very different things —
CLIENT: Right. [00:42:01]
THERAPIST: and aren't entirely clear about the forces in play at the time. So I understand that it sucks but I think it's just that unease that, um, plays a large part.
CLIENT: So to be clear: the conflict is like pushing myself in order to get to achieve whatever—the gold star in lab—and then nurturing myself and being nurtured and taking care of some very, very real physical factors, and then also taking care of some very, very real anxieties that may not—you know, I probably would have been fine today but the anxiety was pretty strong. [00:43:10]
That's a really hard, um, limitation or thing about myself to describe to someone who is invested in my gold star or who is related to it. It's a really odd thing to say: "Oh well, things are going slowly because I'm nurturing myself." 
THERAPIST: Well I think it's an odd thing for you to get your head around in some ways as well, which is why I think you're still so angry —
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: with yourself for what happened earlier. 
CLIENT: (pause for .03 seconds) Yeah.
THERAPIST: We can stop for now.
CLIENT: (pause for .07 seconds) Thank you.
THERAPIST: Sure. [00:44:12]
END TRANSCRIPT
