TRANSCRIPT OF AUDIO FILE:
_____________________________________________________________________________
BEGIN TRANSCRIPT:
COUNSELOR: 0324-006 Interview number 3. Client number 0324-006 Interview number 3.
PATIENT: It is really had to go from, from a deralist (ph) to client like between here and. Between the hospital and the expressway and here.
COUNSELOR: It is like one involving thing through a complicated thing that being the traffic and like you need time to switch gears literally.
PATIENT: Yes. Something like that.
COUNSELOR: Where is it that you work? I have just got to...
PATIENT: At Holy Cross.
COUNSELOR: Is that the one out on Virginia?
PATIENT: A little more traffic today that usual. 
COUNSELOR: Um. 
PATIENT: I don't know where to start again.
COUNSELOR: I kind of wanted to clarify regarding something and I kind of forgot about it but like. Are you? I am not sure there is a distinction here. Do you feel like a kind of blocked momentarily or is it more of a sense of having things that you just can't get your finger on them at the moment? When your, when your coming.
PATIENT: Um. I don't know how to say that. Um.
COUNSELOR: What is not clear? You are saying you do not know where to start and I am saying do you feel blocked like suddenly you can't think of anything to say or do you feel like God I had all these things and they have just flown away?
PATIENT: Well, sometimes that is true and to a certain extent it is true but now it is not. And. But, whatever it is that I getting to yesterday I have forgotten. Kind of. Except that I know there was some reason yesterday that I really wanted to see you again today because I had started something.
COUNSELOR: Hmm.
0:02:22.6
PATIENT: And I did not get through that but I can't remember it now. And partially. I guess today, I like I knew that I was going to have to bring it up mainly. Kind of what happened last night which was kind of an outgrowth of yesterday. It was an outgrowth of talking to my roommate and her discussing how she had been. She had been really upset about something and just the various topics of. Like a friend of hers had asked her, you know if you could do anything, and she sort of said no and he said well call and you know if I can and she said yes. And he said but you won't will you and she said no. Going on the theory that it was her problem, it was really nice to have him for support because she really did not think she could make it through it. But as long as she thought that she could make it through it that she had to do it by herself. Which, you know is kind of how I have gone for a really long time and the question of of how much somebody else can share what is going on inside you. How much they can just be there? Certainly you have got to work it out for yourself. They can't do that for you. How much someone can even help you work it out, I continually doubt. And yet, you know, like she sort of brought up the point that things have happened. You know there have been times that that she really wondered if she was going to make it back, kind of. But that somehow down there that she knew that she could. And I guess this is when she brought up the point that which I think I brought up yesterday, that somewhere deep down there she could laugh. And that I have kind of gotten to the point of when I get down there I am not sure that I can get out. Kind of for the first time. The last two years have been the first time I've, I've conceived of going down and not being able to get out. I remember when I was in college. Some friends of mine where just trying LSD and I kind of wanted to try it. Just taking it like, you know, one person would take it and there would be lots of friends in the room so that it would be a very safe situation if there is such a thing to have. And just kind of like I really wanted to try it but that I heard that people. That were really suscep. That were really in a bad way to start with could very easily have a really bad trip and could very easily kill themselves. And you know somehow I had never really though about it or placed it in those terms, but I knew that I did not dare try LSD because I knew that I was that susceptible. Whereas I did not really feel it but I knew that if I ever got myself in that situation I might get very not very not.
0:05:50.6
COUNSELOR: So you are talking about she said. The way she talked she had some kind of conviction or something telling her that it was solid enough so that she knew. She had some kind of certainly that maybe when all else fails she knew that was there. That solid. But you do not feel that.
PATIENT: Well I use to have it. And she reminds me. She is just a year younger than I and she reminds me of what I use to be in college. Very much so and, you know, now I am not really sure of that conviction. And I am really. There will be time when I say well you know I know I will get out of this, but there are really a lot of times now that I am not so sure.
COUNSELOR: There like thinking about the contrast and suddenly making you feel a little bit shaky, you realize that you do. That there are times when you really do feel shaky.
PATIENT: Yes. Well kind of what she said was. I guess she had a friend of hers that had relied on her to kind of keep him from just really going under. And I kind of. And yet, you know, she said, you know, it really put this tremendous burden on her. You know, then I just began to feel the same thing coming back. That that should I ask anybody for support when I really was down and when I really didn't think I could pull myself up by myself. It was. It was still placing a tremendous burden on them.
COUNSELOR: Mm hmm. Yes, like he was another person. It sounded like she, you are in tune with her in a lot of ways and what comes to my mind is and she might be somebody you could ask but she then said without even knowing it.
PATIENT: Yes.
COUNSELOR: That was really a burden on me. 
PATIENT: Right.
COUNSELOR: There is another person who is a burden.
PATIENT: Who. Well. I mean like I don't even know that well she hasn't been my roommate that long. But she is the kind of person. Not her particularly but she also reminds me of some of my best girlfriend who has just gotten married and who I feel very badly about talking to her anymore.
COUNSELOR: Mm hmm.
PATIENT: And she is in a sense the absolute ideal person that you would go to if you really needed someone to pull you out of something because she would not give you the feeling that there was an imposition. She would give you the feeling that she do absolutely anything and go out of her way. 
COUNSELOR: Mm hmm.
0:08:27.7
PATIENT: And yet you know I would still feel bad doing it to her which makes me feel like in a sense. Well anyway what happened last night was kind of that in a lot of ways felt really good about a combination of talking to this girl. Just because we have been in tune about a lot of things because she, herself, had been really down. And she strikes. You know she come across as a really solid person that helps everyone with their problems which is how I use to come across and still do to some people. And you know, just really a together kind of a person. And you know it sort of gave me renewed confidence that I could, you know, end up being back like she is. And that, you know, being really down and being really not sure you are going to make it as far as maintaining sanity was not necessarily the end of the world but that you could get pretty far down and still come back. And you could do some pretty stupid things and get some pretty far out thoughts and like really feel like running away and not talking to people and things like that and you could still come back. And I guess that comes from really giving me hope. And somehow whatever went on here yesterday which at this point is like a big blur had kind of built on to that. And off kind of that there were parts or moments or whatever that you could find that, that you know that made it possible for um, I do not know for me to get out of all this stuff. And I started telling my boyfriend about this. I had not told him that I was in therapy or anything else at this point before this. And the only reason I told him then was because I was happy about it. 
COUNSELOR: Mm hmm.
0:10:40.3
PATIENT: And it was like having a really good thing to share with him for a change instead of complaining. And kind of feeling like if I could get over, you know, a few more preoccupations with myself, that I that I would be able to get out of it. Except what ended up happening was that, I don't even, I don't even know how I got into it, probably I was telling. Or no I guess I started talking to him about, about this dinner we had and about how I had gotten depressed because I could not keep up with the conversation. And that I really, it was a real effort for me to talk and I really felt inadequate as far as knowing what was going on abroad (ph) and stuff like that. And really felt different and really felt out of it. And that I just sort mentioned that there was kind of one thing that. Oh I said that I was not really sure how, you know, what had made me feel that way. I said it might have been something that was said at the very beginning of the evening. I did not elaborate on that. And then I said it might have been a whole bunch of other things which is, which is what I mentioned. And. Then I just ended up. Oh I know what happened. Yes, a couple of things happened. I went back to to what my. This was this is kind of how I got on to it. I went back to what my roommate had said when she was really upset about somebody that died or something like that. Just the fact that even this friend of hers that tried to say how are you or something like that had been so hard to take because it had broken through this barrier that she was trying to maintain of some kind of look of serenity and she was just falling apart inside. And my boyfriend was kind of saying is that a good thing to do. And I, I was kind of identifying with her in a way and I just sort of remembered, just sort of out of the blue one time that he said that, you know, even, you know, is it a good thing to ignore help when it is offered to you. And I said sometimes you just can't get outside yourself enough to do it. And I remembered one time when I was is college that was like something had happened with a guy that I was going out. And I could not speak. I mean it was like Oh I had a jog interview the next day that somehow I got to by just preventing any feelings at all. I was just like this army for like three days. And my roommate was in this was the really horror was this person I was definitely closest to. I had just been her roommate for about five or six months then and I could not even stay with her because I could not let her know that anything was wrong because then I knew she would ask me what was wrong. 
COUNSELOR: Mm hmm.
0:14:29.2
PATIENT: So I just took a sleeping bag and went and slept on the floor of another former roommate. Kind of thinking maybe I can talk to her and maybe I would feel better except that once I got there I could not talk to her either.
COUNSELOR: Mm hmm.
PATIENT: So I just went to sleep. And it was just. It was just kind of like something that you really just had to get over yourself.
COUNSELOR: It sounds like the structure or there is something that gets set up maybe it is control or something that that gets set up that you have to hold onto so hard that if somebody pokes a little finger through it, something really bad happens then. The whole thing falls down or you do not dare tell them how you feel because and I do not. I am not sure what the because is. 
PATIENT: It is kind of like too many spot have been to vulnerable to me. And on those spots just becoming rigid and just not being able to say anything.
COUNSELOR: Mm hmm.
PATIENT: Just when I let them get to me, I just would let it happen at that time. And what ended up last night was was that, somehow I do not know whether I was talking about being. I guess I was, I mentioned how, how in a sense all my life I have been, I have reacted the same way namely shut up because it is safer. And because somehow I never quite fit in with what was going on around me. And I would just sort of internalize whatever conflict was there and it did not do any good to tell anybody. When I was, and I just sort of went through a progression of. It would be, you know, things that now that when I look back on them were nothing, but during the time would like occupy practically all of my waking hours and give me nightmares. And like really make it difficult for me to just be an ordinary kid in an ordinary classroom.
0:16:42.8
COUNSELOR: Mm hmm.
PATIENT: And it would be. What it amounted to was I just sort of went through this whole thing and and like in progression of how strong feelings can really immobilize you. And how. And I sort of went through with him what particular conflicts or the series of them in a very generalized outlined form chronologically. I had sort of felt and you know gradually they disappeared but during that time each thing just kept me from being involved and knowing what was going on in the world. And in some sense I had not conquered all the conflicts. And like I got to one conflict that I really have not conquered yet. And you know then it was sort of there that we stopped which like ended up on just about the worst note possible considering that it started out with a very nice discussion. And I had sort of asked him to stay just because I really wanted to talk to him. And, but then by the time we got to this point, you know and then both of us were tired and both of us had to get up really early this morning, he said. It is like I just sort of stopped and let him go to sleep except that I was just really restless. And he was sort of just said, you know, damn it if I knew you were not I just, I would not have stayed. And I just felt so bad for having. You know he had not said anything at all.
COUNSELOR: Mm Hmm.
PATIENT: And well want he ended up saying was, you know, this is just something that you have got to get over. That, you know, you recognize that it is bothering you and you have got to get over it. And. And. He could not help me. He could not do anything to help me get over it. And you know, we both did not go to sleep. We both did not relax and stay. He had to present a case in court and I had to send out functions as a psychologist and damn it why did not I stop feeling and go to sleep. 
COUNSELOR: Shape up.
PATIENT: And you know, it was like really stupid but it was like about the third night within the last week that I woke up and wanted to cut myself which is just really. Like I before that had gone through a fantastically long time. 
COUNSELOR: Mm hmm.
0:19:49.4
PATIENT: Except that I knew that that was one thing I saw tranquilizers and had probably taken all of them the night before and had not gotten any new ones. It was the only way that I knew of that I was going to calm down and go to sleep and not bother him and not upset him anymore. And it is like I just sort of ended up writing, writing damn on my arm which is just like a really stupid thing to do. And you know, like lying in bed in the pitch dark with a razor blade. And and carving it until I knew that it hurt enough so that it probably was forming the letters the way that I felt them.
COUNSELOR: Mm hmm.
PATIENT: Which I found out this morning it in fact had. I mean he had no idea of that and I am not about to tell him. And I sort of feel like I just should stay away from him because I feel so guilty about the whole thing. 
COUNSELOR: Yes, I guess what that makes me thing of is finally I made a mark with my feelings. It is like as your telling me, I hear you saying I told. I tried to share my feelings, my experiences with him and I did not feel received. If fact he told me in effect to shape up and go to sleep because those things are more important and to get over it and my feelings, how I really felt about these things I was saying did not have particularly high impact. And I could not function until I expressed those feelings in some way. Now I do not know. It sounds kind of fanciful in a way but I just. That association...(interrupted)
PATIENT: That is partly it. It is. It is that I not, that I not only had to express them but that also after expressing them, even to some minor degree which is all the expression I could handle, I did not even say that do you know what is wrong with me. And he finally admitted yes he did. And.
COUNSELOR: What did you mean by that. I am not sure.
PATIENT: Just that. Just that he knew what feelings were really bothering me.
COUNSELOR: At that point?
0:21:59.5
PATIENT: Yes. And. And. He said, you know, you just have to get over them. And that was kind of all that was said.
COUNSELOR: Mm hmm.
PATIENT: And I know he was wrong too.
COUNSELOR: Of course he was.
PATIENT: But you know it is a lot easier said then done comment.
COUNSELOR: Yes. It sounds like you really needed something else at that point or you would not have started to come in the way that you told him. Or in the way that you were trying too.
PATIENT: Yes.
COUNSELOR: I mean, I here sharing your experiences being very different from saying jeez I have this problem and it, you know I do this, this, and this and I really would like to get over it. You were not talking on that level until you did need that. 
PATIENT: Yes. That is kind of it.
COUNSELOR: Kind of respect you might get.
PATIENT: I guess in a way I was. I was recognizing how gradually I had gotten over just about everything else. Or most of the things. Not all of the things that had made me feel. Had giving me cause to feel like a real outsider.
COUNSELOR: Mm hmm.
PATIENT: And like that was one thing that I had to stop feeling. 
COUNSELOR: Mm hmm. Oh are you saying you something. I remember something that you had said before. So you stopped on a hard point and then he made you feel like an outsider by saying, oh, go to sleep. Is that?
PATIENT: No.
COUNSELOR: Okay. I retract that statement.
0:23:48.1
PATIENT: What I did kind of was. I was just kind of talking about all the things that had upset me. I talked in a very blank form like, like the things that had just made me feel really emotional and made it really difficult to function. And each one at that point being being very important at that point. And realizing in a sense that had I gotten over them in an easier way. Had I not for instance, the first thing that, that really comes to mind is like when my parents were divorced when I was ten like I used to just cry myself to sleep every single night, practically every single night. And I have never slept well since. I mean I have always hung out and gone to sleep like two hours after I have gone to bed. I have lied awake just thinking about everything under the sun and inventing all sorts of nice daydreams because I did like kind of to face reality. And I mean it was the thing that like really tore me apart. Partly because I did not understand it. Partly because I really did miss my father then so all I pretty much did not have a good year. And that kind of always leaving someone, like leaving my mother to visit my father or vice versa. It just really kind of tore my apart. Plus the fact that divorce is not very well. At the time that I was is school. I was in a Catholic school and divorce was really taboo and I was the only person who had divorced parents. We just do not talk about that kind of think.
COUNSELOR: Yes. That is hard.
 
0:25:44.5
PATIENT: And it is kind of even worse to have a parent, a father that is an Episcopalian and a mother that is an atheist at that point. And she had been a Catholic which is why I had been why I was in that school. And yes that was just kind of one thing that I just sort of never talked about with anyone and just sort of internalized. And you know, now it does not bother me and it is, you know everybody has divorced parents and I am not particularly a Catholic girl so I was to do anything else at this point. But like by the time I got, got to even face the divorce kind of thing, then I started in to the religion kind of thing because my father wanted me to convert to being an Episcopalian, which I did after very much anguish and turmoil and all sorts of things like that when I was a teenager. And so that sort of occupied like, you know, several years. And that was also something that you just could not talk to your friends about because they just. Either your friends were very good Catholics or they were very good Episcopalians.
COUNSELOR: And they could not understand somebody with so many endowed or somebody with uncertainty.
PATIENT: I mean to be an Episcopalian was like the worst kind of moral thing possible. And to be a Catholic in Alabama, which is where I went for two years in high school, was very. For one thing they just did not go to public schools. There was a diocesan law that you had to go to Catholic school. So not only was I kind of a Yankee and, you know, very set at school, but I was a Yankee Catholic and Catholics were very strange breed. I use to go to my fathers' church and go to Sunday school and listen to this cheat that is cheating on as a Catholic of course. Teacher just saying how it strange people that these Catholics were.
COUNSELOR: Almost like you could not get away from being in a cotter. It was like the things. Let's see how to put it. The external things about you: Catholic, Yankee, child of divorce parents.
PATIENT: Yes.
COUNSELOR: And the feelings that you were trying to deal with that nobody could hear like everything.
PATIENT: I use to always like when I was little, like when I would be taking plane trips back and forth from Massachusetts and Alabama where my parents were, I used to wish like anything I had a twin sister or even had a sister or a brother.
COUNSELOR: Mm hmm.
PATIENT: That. That was is some way in the same situation I was that I could talk with, talk to. Or that I had a twin sister so that we could divide our time between our two parents because each of them was constantly saying you are not spending enough time with me. You are spending more time with the other parent. And, you know, feeling very left out. I practically have to find pictures to prove that I have in fact spent as many Christmas's with one as I have with the other. And that's kind of went all through college. But you know, in a lot of sense, you know, when I look back on this it is like really trivial. 
0:28:56.7
COUNSELOR: What is really trivial? Wait. What?
PATIENT: Just.
COUNSELOR: These concerns?
PATIENT: Making these concerns. Letting these concerns be as much of my life as they were. And they were because I spent all. Like I spent two years of high school with my father and two with my mother and the reason I even went down to live with my father for the first time during the school year was because my mother had run off to get married. There was all sorts of nice scandal about that because the guy was married. And it was like then when I would come visit her during the summer, I hated my stepfather. I mean he was really a despicable person. Absolutely objectively despicable person. As far as how he treated me. He was okay to other people. But he treated me like a five year old. And I would I had acted on my own independently for so long that that was the last time that I needed. And I sort of spent all of high school like trying to convince my mother that I really did love her and that I in fact was going to go back and spend a second year with my father and that I would come back to her.
COUNSELOR: Mm hmm.
PATIENT: And. Like. I do not. I really do not remember ever being really calm. It was just like being a constant nervous wreck.
COUNSELOR: Constant upheaval.
PATIENT: Like I use to. I. Sometimes. Thank goodness high school work was very easy academically so I could get by without any trouble.
COUNSELOR: Because you had to use so much of your own energy just to contain or at least that was part of it. I am sure you did a lot of thinking and wondering about enough but it sounds or if it had been me I guess I am saying I would have had to really use a lot of the energy just to keep it inside. I would have been like pushed from the inside all the time.
PATIENT: That is that is kind of really how I felt. And I mean like I use to be president of this organization or that organization or something and I could never do speeches because I would get so nervous, you know, just being up in front of anybody. I got through them and what I said was good but how I said it I was just, you know. I was just such a constant wreck that I mean. I was not so much aware of it then but when I look back on it now it was just pure hell.
COUNSELOR: Yes. What a toll it has taken or what a toll it took.
0:31:24.6
PATIENT: It took. Kind of. Just that that I could not really enjoy. Just being part of any kind of group. I did, but I ended up taking on a very passive childlike, friendly role which was very excepted in the south. And everybody. I had no trouble making friends which was lovely because it was my defensive position, which was to be friendly to everybody and everybody liked that.
COUNSELOR: Yes.
PATIENT: And they all kind of took me in and took care of me. And the fact that I was new and gave a kind of good excuse for not knowing what was going on. And for being a kind of passive, dependant person. So that was fine. I mean it was not me but I survived and I enjoyed.
COUNSELOR: That is fine but it was not.
PATIENT: Enjoyed the role that that I had. At least I was excepted. And that you know at least I enjoyed security and some actually very, very good friends to talk to about some some kinds of things.
COUNSELOR: But I guess still I am hearing I did not. I did not show them. I could not show them what really was me. Like a little of me snuck into this or you know.
PATIENT: Well it. It got to be that I was not sure who was me because I kept changing
COUNSELOR: Mm hmm.
PATIENT: Like when I would be in Massachusetts I would one person. When I would be in Alabama I would be another. My stepmother and my, who was a very proper southern lady and my mother who was much more of the theatrical type very, in a lot of ways, improper, northern person was. You know it was like adopting a completely different lifestyle each time.
COUNSELOR: It sounded like you really needed a sibling to carry some of that weight at that point.
PATIENT: It is like I needed to be two different people.
COUNSELOR: Mm hmm.
PATIENT: And I. I finally got to the point where I would, I would be one religion when I got to Alabama and I would be another religion when I got to Massachusetts. And once I went to visit an aunt that was is Pennsylvania in the middle and I did not know what I was.
COUNSELOR: Mm hmm.
PATIENT: Because for once I was not in either place. I was someplace in between and I. There was no role that I was set out to be.
COUNSELOR: So which are you when you are in between. Yes.
PATIENT: Yes. And when I got out of there and I got into college and I was not really so bad. But I do not like having to take that role of blocking out things to the world which is what I did. 
COUNSELOR: Mm hmm.
0:34:16.7
PATIENT: And being sweet, little, innocent, na�ve person simply because I could only let it some much reality maybe because I was spending too much time keeping myself together.
COUNSELOR: Mm hmm.
PATIENT: And really being absorbed in my own problems. And. And. I guess it was during high school that I really like. I was constantly worried about my mother as because she was always getting drunk or going on tantrums about like I, there would always be an argument so. And she would be very irrational. And I realize now she was fantastically irrational but then I thought it was me. 
COUNSELOR: Yes. 
PATIENT: And you know, I thought, my God I can not get along with anybody. And I can not cause these kind of things to people. And I do not know, kind of like, kind of right in the middle of this that. In the middle of of mother and fathers absolutely calling each other the worst names in the book. And. My mother coming to visit me in Alabama and pulling me out of school just absolutely a wreck in tears and everything like that. 
COUNSELOR: And stuff like that. And that. And I was like really, really, really screwed up about dating and stuff and sex and that's because of my Catholic upbringing which said thou shall not disappoint him. That he was going to marry him. And. And. When I was in grade school, things like that, I had such a knack. I came to school with kind of my wreckage. The school church complex was like all of my friends and a result it was their edicts that I followed with me. And. So just, you know just like dating in high school was really, really a knack sack (ph). I could never date anyone I wanted to. And. Just kind of not, you know not knowing how to behave in any social situation, whether it was with a group of girls or a tea party or must less on a date just. Just. And yet at the same time really wanting social contact was just really hard. 
0:37:01.5
COUNSELOR: I am getting this feeling. I am afraid I am going to be a little complicated but let me see. It is like a couple of elements. One is that you felt outside of everything or of a lot of things.
PATIENT: Mm hmm.
COUNSELOR: And unable to share parts of yourself and you also felt very much like you had to, like you were responsible for a lot of things in some ways. Like you were the one that had to get along with your mother. You were the one that had to be this in one place and that in another. And it is almost like there was not enough time for information to come in that that you take and make your own decisions. So like you did not know, you did not know who you were. You had no choice in who you were. You had. You could not even get the information that you needed. Now that.
PATIENT: It was like how to be the best kind of person. The best in that, in any situation and generally failing miserably. Whenever there was a definite role called for, I could do it well or do it pretty well. Like I did a great nurse to take care of my grandmother. She was sick and to help out people or something like that or just to take over anything that had a very prescribed kind of behavior and I could do it and I would never get tired. I had all this fantastic anxiety energy that I could devote to to some kind of constructive task and then. And, you know, just work really miracles in that sense, but otherwise it was like just sort of flying apart and not knowing anything about.
COUNSELOR: Yes. If it came down to what kind of person are you, what kind of person were you? There was no answer to that. Is that? Sounds like it would make you feel kind of frantic thinking about that or in situations where that came up.
PATIENT: Well, it was for awhile. I think, I think by the time I got to college I kind of was not happy with who I was, but I knew, you know, I began to realize, you know, these are my values in these situations. And, you know, they are gradually cementing except that, that I can not continue to take them on as long as I keep blocking out the outside world. As long as I keep feeling peculiar, different, separate, not fitting in and that kind of thing which I still do.
COUNSELOR: Mm hmm.
PATIENT: And feel very, very strong.
COUNSELOR: And are you saying that was were you. There is something in this business about where you stopped last night that seemed to be important and I was not sure that I heard what it was. I am wondering was that it. That you got stopped on that point and.
0:39:55.1
PATIENT: I got stopped at a point that kind of. The next crisis after getting my parents straightened out and I guess getting my mothers' husband, second husband buried. He died my senior year of high school. And we were kind of in the midst of all this high mess I tried to. Do not ask just how I ever got tied to college or got in. It is like throwing in an application the last day. Even got through college exams and college boards because I was always and wreck and never knew when to take them (inaudible 40:42) a mess. It was like I was also and my mothers, mothers kind of puritan attitudes did not help because this point at all. It was like I was also really troubled about sex namely I did not understand it and I did not dare ask questions about it. My father expected my mother to do it of course and my mother being really out of it. And. The thing being that like, I was 17 and I had never menstruated and that was very unusual and. So then depending which city I was in at the time they were taking me to various doctors to see what was the matter with me. 
COUNSELOR: And I was like fantastically shy, fantastically embarrassed about everything anyway and so. And that was kind of the last straw was I guess, I started the first operation to see what was wrong with me like when I was 17 or something like that and then I.. The summer between high school and college, I went, I had seen a doctor in Alabama that was supposedly really good or something like that and so he just, he said there is no way to really tell without doing an internal operation, which is like. Which I since needed an appendectomy because in the process he took out my appendix which was very convenient. And it was just exploratory just to see what was wrong and it just sort of amounted to the effect that I was born without a vagina and without a uterus and without what else I am not quite sure. And. Sort of went a long without really knowing for a long time just what it was and I just kind of like I remember my stepmother calling me. Actually I remember, being doctor. My mother came down from the operation and was just terrible. I mean she was just. She was just such a wreck that she just really was much more harm than she was good. And. The doctor told her but she could she would wait. She did not tell me for like. Oh I guess the doctor in Massachusetts had reportedly told her that this was a possibility and she had not told me. I was really mad at that. 
0:43:28.3
COUNSELOR: Are you saying that they that a lot of people knew some things and they did not tell you but you.
PATIENT: Yes.
COUNSELOR: Like a lot of people that are in that position of being operated on or being sick. Like they know there is something.
PATIENT: Yes. And they. It was kind of like they waited to tell me until like, until then which they did not to do. At any point then it was just kind of left up in the air. Well, you will probably be okay and you can. When you decide to get married which is of course what the doctor in his office would say then you could have this plastic surgery done to construct a vagina and make sure you get it done like six months before you get involved. These operations are usually successful and then forget about it until then.
COUNSELOR: Mm hmm.
PATIENT: And. Basically, I mean, it did not bother me my first year in college because I was not going with anybody and I was just kind of forgetting about it, but just gradually I would start to wonder just how normal I was and how normal I was not physically. That just sort of added to a whole bunch of things. And. This, this time at college that I did not like speak to my roommates for a couple of days and I did not speak to them at all until they told me what was wrong. And they absolutely just came out a said this is what is wrong with you isn't it. And kind of what had happens, I do not know what had brought it on, but my boyfriend that I was really going with really steadily at that point. And. We had kind of discussed having sex and I would just said no. And. Anyway, he just. He knew that something was bothering me but he did not really know what. He just said are you going to be able to have children and first said that that was not it and then I just could not lie anymore. And it was like that just really. It is like I really had not even talked to anybody about it at all. And. I could not face him after that. I could not face anybody after that. I certainly never talked to my roommate about it I was really close to. And. So anyway that is. That is kind of what we got to last night because my boyfriend he knows about it because I have had several operations so it took several years. The first one being very unsuccessful.
COUNSELOR: Mm hmm.
0:46:23.1
PATIENT: And then one. The one last year, my first year in New York, that is when I was. I just took a month off and went into the hospital as a charity patient and managed to get it done and it is pretty much successful. I only took me six months to recover and I got many incompletes in the process. At least mostly I kind of needed it psychologically because I needed to know that I could be at least partially robbed (ph). And. Then it just kind of amended to the problem of whether I am going to be able to adopt children which is what really scares me because I am not a nice middle class silent majority American with a little house in the suburbs and I do not intend to be a nice little sweet housewife and I do not intend to go to a nice little church that was the way I was brought up. And unfortunately that kind of thing is very often required.
COUNSELOR: Yes. So you feel like still okay one part of you has been or it has become possible for you to feel more. I do not know, feel more like you can engage in a very important process and yet this business about adopting kids, even that said, in a sense you are an outsider. Let us say, your not, you are not okay.
PATIENT: Well. That. Yes. In a sense it does.
COUNSELOR: I think I have put destructive things together. I think that it is not as funny for me but...(interrupted)
PATIENT: Yes. Yes.
COUNSELOR: After I finished it.
PATIENT: I did not. I did not.
COUNSELOR: Yes. Well they were not connected. The point was or maybe it was not the point. I guess the thing that is running through and why I am connecting a lot of things is that. All of these things just say to me in a number of ways this was another place were you were an outsider and this business about your physical makeup was like this was a place like you were not only an outsider, but people did not give you the facts about it so your left to wonder about it. Plus I would imagine it would have made you feel abnormal as well as just an outsider. The two are sometimes very different.
PATIENT: Yes.
COUNSELOR: And it is like you are sketching out this long progression of being told that you are being an outsider to me.
PATIENT: The fact is, I mean, one important part of that whole progression was that I was never seen as an outsider. I would be in an Episcopalian church being a Catholic, but I would be acting like an Episcopalian and nobody knew what was inside of me.
COUNSELOR: Mm hmm.
PATIENT: And it is like I was only an outsider, you know, inside.
0:49:20.9
COUNSELOR: Hmm.
PATIENT: And I was not really seen as an outsider.
COUNSELOR: I see.
PATIENT: And it is, it is just always been my own feeling that somehow I am just not quite like the people here and if they ever knew what was really inside of me
COUNSELOR: It reminds me of a passing. It is that, it is the, you know the, the (interrupted).
PATIENT: Yes.
COUNSELOR: Phenomenon. 
PATIENT: I mean that is the way I really use to feel you know as far as a religion kind of thing, as far as the southern manners kind of thing. You know you did not talk about race, you did not talk about having best friends. It was black when you were in the south.
COUNSELOR: Mm hmm.
PATIENT: You just. You just showed the part of you that was accepted there. And. It just like there always seems to be something inside that does not fit with what the way things should be.
COUNSELOR: And I guess the thing that I want to tag onto that, there is always something that does not fit and you feel you have to keep it to yourself or you have had to keep it to yourself.
PATIENT: Yes.
COUNSELOR: You have had to deal with it.
PATIENT: Right.
COUNSELOR: And it is like. Oh, I do not know, some psychological thing like if you do not do the new response then you can not learn anything. And it is like if you can not, if you can not let some of it out in some way, there is no way for it to change.
PATIENT: Yes. It is really funny like one of the most together times in my life was that month I was in the hospital. When nobody knew I was in the hospital except this one boyfriend in New York and he visited me very sporadically, as a result of which I had no visitors. Except I got to know all nurses on the floor who were my age and for once they knew what was going on.
COUNSELOR: Mm hmm.
PATIENT: What was wrong with me. They could come in and talk to me about it. They could talk about anything under the sun. And I was perfectly together.
COUNSELOR: What a relief.
PATIENT: Like.
COUNSELOR: In some ways.
PATIENT: Like. You know I was really. They. They. Everyone. I was keeping up the spirits of all my roommate. My various roommates would come and go as I would stay. And you know, be playing the guitar or something like that and all the nurses that were in the hall would come in and you know like. Absolutely model patient. The social worker would come in and say would you like to see the psychiatrist just because she just kind of talked about my family background and stuff.
COUNSELOR: Mm hmm.
PATIENT: And she said it might be a good thing. And I said, you know, I do not need a psychiatrist I am fine.
COUNSELOR: Mm hmm. And it sounds like at that point you really were in in some way.
PATIENT: I mean a month later I tried to kill myself.
COUNSELOR: Uh huh.
PATIENT: But at that particular point I was fine.
COUNSELOR: Yes. Yes, because like at last you did not want to, you did not have to, you could not hide something.
PATIENT: Yes. At last there was, there was. You know I could just be me and anyone that I wanted to be.
COUNSELOR: Mm hmm.
PATIENT: And in the best part of me.
COUNSELOR: Mm hmm.
0:51:58.8
PATIENT: As far as, you know, just being outgoing and being friendly and being honest about the way I was feeling about things like the. Everybody made me their case. I was really a really great case on that floor.
COUNSELOR: Yes.
PATIENT: This nurse that was, that was becoming, that was going back for her degree in psychiatric nursing I was her special patient. So she would come in and visit me for a day and talk to me about just how I was feeling. What kinds of thoughts I had and stuff like that. And at first I really resented her, like on the first day. After that I realized that she was just really sincere.
COUNSELOR: Mm hmm.
PATIENT: There was nothing to be afraid of.
COUNSELOR: It sounds like you were freer, released or something to go after to people. Or to be.
PATIENT: Yes.
COUNSELOR: To let things come in.
PATIENT: I was.
COUNSELOR: Something shifted.
PATIENT: That is the last I remember feeling that way.
COUNSELOR: Mm hmm.
PATIENT: It was really strange that it was in a hospital.
COUNSELOR: Yes. I was going to say like that is in a way.
PATIENT: It was even after they took me off of all the nice dose that they had me have that kept me very high.
COUNSELOR: Mm hmm.
PATIENT: I mean it was like even when I was in really severe pain, which I was.
COUNSELOR: Mm hmm.
PATIENT: And like all sorts of things went wrong and I was hemorrhaging and all sorts of things and.
COUNSELOR: But like that.
PATIENT: That was minor.
COUNSELOR: Even when it was you it was.
PATIENT: That was really minor.
COUNSELOR: Yes.
PATIENT: So you know.
COUNSELOR: I am looking at the time. I think you must have known that because I feel like we are coming to a close for the last minute or two or maybe I was coming to a close too.
PATIENT: No, I felt, I felt like I was ready to leave.
COUNSELOR: Oh I did not feel that. Did you see me acting like I was, like you were.
PATIENT: No but I was looking at the clock and I was feeling like I was.
COUNSELOR: Okay. Okay, I did not. Sometimes I am impatient about the time but I have now gotten to the point where I just say it. I have trouble saying it but this was not one of them. Let us see. Today is. Next Tuesday at five? Okay for you? 
Pause 53:58 to 54:13 
COUNSELOR: Okay. I realize after I kept (ph) coming to you that first day that I never gave you my phone number and I really mean that and I do not expect you to feel like you want to call, but if you do here is my phone number.
PATIENT: Okay.
Pause 54:29 to 54:40
PATIENT: Thank you very much.
COUNSELOR: That is all nice. Here.
PATIENT: Okay.
END TRANSCRIPT
