TRANSCRIPT OF AUDIO FILE:
______________________________________________________________________________
BEGIN TRANSCRIPT:
CLIENT: I went and played again last night. Biked all the way out to the Park. Played Handball and biked home in the rain. And I woke up this morning and went back. It's just, you know; I also got whiplash from a rollercoaster. So but actually, for a few days I was happy and it was very relaxing and...
THERAPIST: Good.
CLIENT: Go play a game of ultimate on the beach; go play in the water. Come back, play ultimate on the beach, go play in the water. Drink beer. So I was very relaxed.
THERAPIST: That's terrific. 
CLIENT: But, of course, as soon as I come back...it started Monday on the car ride back, just with all the stupid e-mails I'm getting and you know, just ruminating about all the shit I've got to deal with, you know, so it didn't last for long. So I don't know. 
The firm is officially dead, at least financially. Jess wants me to stop using the accounts and everything. But it's like, you know, I mean I just spent over $200 on new checks and I've still got to change a bunch of stuff from the firm to just me, and it's like I don't have $200 to go out and get new checks for a new account, you know. I'm not even...I haven't even paid her health insurance because I don't have the money. The money's just not coming in. And this trip cost me money and I've had to pay the IRS and just...it just sucks. 
You know Jess wants me to start chipping in, you know, for child support. It's like she gets $2,600 from the people upstairs. I don't see any of that, you know. And my tenants may be renewing. The buyer has said it's okay, but he wants to know what rents are. And so Claire is going to check out what rents are. Which I have a feeling it may have gone up a little bit. My people can't pay more than $1,500. They can barely pay $1,500. So hopefully that works out. That'll at least stave off any problems with my current landlords if they get rents coming in. 
But still that's, you know, Jess is getting $1,100 more from...you know, I don't see none of that. So she's getting my share of that. That should count for something. 
She sent me an e-mail last week and it's just like I get these fucking e-mails at night from her after she puts the kids to bed and it's like I've had a long fucking day. I just want to sit there and relax and I get these fucking e-mails from her about stuff like this like, you know, and I just don't want to; I just don't want to deal with it, you know. 
So she said yesterday, "Can you respond to e-mail I sent last week?" And I was like I don't want to argue. It's just going to end up in an argument, you know. Over e-mail I'll lose with her. I'm going to lose no matter what. Nothing I do or say is going to, you know, make a difference. 
I'm not getting money from the people I do titles for. I mean one attorney is sending me...my buddy is sending me $350, but you know, this other firm owes me thousands of dollars. I'm just not seeing it. I sent two e-mails and I mailed them a statement and circled...it gives the agent and how much they owe. I circle the over 60 and the over 90 and it's like, you know, over $1,000 now. 
I get like a check from here to there. It used to be like check, check, check; the checks would come in as they close. But first of all, they keep sending them to my old e-mail address even though I e-mailed them several times and said this is not my e-mail address; it's my old suite number. Send them to my new address, you know. 
I was supposed to do a title form yesterday, but I just didn't have it in me. I'll do it today. I was so exhausted yesterday; I went home and took a nap. 
Back home last night in the freezing rain kind of sucked. I was thinking to myself, "Should I bring my slicker?" I'm like, nah; it's just going to be little showers. The showers turned in to huge downpours. It didn't look that bad although on the radar when I left. 
At least I'll keep semi-busy this weekend. Ian is in the open air circus. He's a stilter. So there are four performances and he wants to do all four. So the first one is Friday night and the kids are I don't know; it's kind of late. But it's like; he's going to stay up when he stays with me. Even when he stays with me, he stays up until 9 o'clock at night anyway, so what's the difference if he stays up you know. There are like two performances on Saturday and one on Sunday. 
I don't know. I don't know if I spoke to you about the woman. Candy. Had emergency surgery.
THERAPIST: Oh, that's too bad.
CLIENT: I guess she had; she was having an elective surgery. I don't know what it was...and something went wrong and she had to have emergency surgery. 
THERAPIST: Oh, that's too bad. 
CLIENT: Yeah, so she's out through the end of August. 
THERAPIST: Oh.
CLIENT: I was going to ask her anyways to, you know, do something about my medication because it's just all fucked up. And the woman who's taking her patients looked at my medications like this and said this is all fucked up. She didn't use those words exactly, but...so I'm going to basically see her every week...
THERAPIST: Good.
CLIENT: To get my medications.
THERAPIST: Who is she?
CLIENT: [inaudible]. 
THERAPIST: Where is she based?
CLIENT: Suburbs.
THERAPIST: Private practice?
CLIENT: Yeah. And she kind of is excited about the psycho pharm end of things, so she's very excited.
THERAPIST: Do you like her better than Candy? 
CLIENT: You know, I don't know. I mean I'll probably go back to Candy, but I like the fact that she's being aggressive and changing my meds and recognizing that, you know, something has to be done. So it's going to be kind of a pain in the ass to go every week, but...like it's hard for me to say it; it doesn't seem like you know, the only change we've made is to cut back on part of the I guess it's the Trilafon or the Trileptol, one of those, and stopped taking the Klonopin before I go to bed. And I don't know; that seemed not to have changed much. 
It's also hard because I was at the tournament Friday, Saturday, and Sunday.
THERAPIST: Right.
CLIENT: Right, but...
THERAPIST: You were enjoying yourself.
CLIENT: What's that?
THERAPIST: You were enjoying yourself.
CLIENT: Yeah. You know, so it's like, and then I come back and I feel just like I did before I left, you know. Just anxious and pissed off and sad and lonely and you know, panoply of negative emotions I go through. And she wants me to try and take Klonopin three times a day and it's like I don't know when to take it if I'm not taking it at night. So I haven't been able to take it three times a day and I seem to be...like today I slept until 9 o'clock. Yesterday I slept until 9 o'clock. I just can't get out of bed. And I'm staying up until like 11:30 or 12, but even then eight hours, I should be out of bed at 8 o'clock. But I just can't get up, you know. 
And she's right. She's like you're on all these medications that are, you know...make you sleep. And she's like, all the while I was taking the SSRI, she's like you know you should have been taking those with food and you probably wouldn't have been nauseous, you know. She seemed knowledgeable about, you know, the medications. I don't know if she's better than Candy or not, you know. I see her again on Friday. 
I don't know; it just sucks. Nothing's changed. 
THERAPIST: You referred a minute ago to all of the things you feel every day.
CLIENT: Panoply of negative emotions. Can you spell panoply? I don't know. I just get angry at stuff. That doesn't mean I'm just good ole itty bitty changes that just I don't know; stupid little things that I shouldn't be getting pissed off about. But I get frustrated and mad; just...just anxious about money. Every night I'm just like sad and lonely; just, you know, wake up and, you know, same shit, different day. My apartment is a shit hole. I don't have any motivation whatsoever to clean it up. Just I don't see anything on the horizon that is going to make things better; nothing to hang on for. 
That closing seller rep that I referred to Claire; it was yesterday. She's like I don't have any buyers. I was like...so I'm not seeing any business from her. Just no prospects; nothing. 
THERAPIST: You get mad at I heard you say that...itty bitty things.
CLIENT: Yeah, that I don't...be putting on my, you know, my bag or whatever. It's like now I'm right and just, you know, can't get this to go on right or my...headphones get stuck underneath or my shirts get twisted the wrong way, and I struggle to fix it. I just get pissed off and I get pissed off driving. I have no AC in my car. It works for a few minutes, and then it stops. I get mad at the dumbest things. I know I'm being fucking crazy, but it just...
THERAPIST: Oh, well really those are small reminders of bigger waves that affect you between, you know; it's not just a random thing at all. 
CLIENT: Oh, I know; I'm just...I'm full of frustration. I'm going through it all just completely alone. 
THERAPIST: Yeah. Maybe it would be a big difference if you were [inaudible 24:04] much of it by yourself. 
CLIENT: Sometimes I just want to complain to somebody about something you know and there's no one there. 
THERAPIST: Was Jess ever there for you like that?
CLIENT: I mean I could complain to her, you know, but she was never supportive. She was always trying to solve the problem. She gets it from her mom. What I would say to her, just, all I want is "Yeah, that sucks," or "I feel bad," or something. But it was always like trying to give me some way to solve the problem, you know. It's like I'm not looking for solutions; I'm just looking for support. Maybe at some point I did get it; I don't know. But it felt like I never got what's important. 
THERAPIST: Yeah. Have there been other people in your adult life?
CLIENT: What do you mean?
THERAPIST: Who have been there for you like that?
CLIENT: Not really. I guess there's my friend, you know. I can complain to her. In law school, you know, you could complain to anybody. Everybody is going through the same thing. 
When I really started having problems, Jess was just nonexistent, you know. And I became a problem for her. I don't know what was going on, but it really didn't matter. She was more interested in pointing out the things that I'm doing wrong; not helping out. 
THERAPIST: Yeah, that becomes a significant part of what's going wrong with you. 
CLIENT: I mean there was a brief period where, you know, if I called her and started to want to say, "This is going wrong," or whatever, and she would say, "I'm sorry." This was since we separated, but I'm just so fucking angry at her, that I just, you know. You get this; it's this huge lack of trust at me for anything now with the kids, the money, the business, everything, you know. I just don't know where in my life I'm going to find someone who will listen to me. I work by myself now. It's not like I'm meeting new people all the time. I'm just not. 
THERAPIST: What in the way that most affects you?
CLIENT: What do you mean? 
THERAPIST: Well, I mean talking about feeling lonelier, especially at night. And probably feeling more pissed off at Jess or just in general. Or not having someone who's really there. Are those the main things that are...? 
CLIENT: I mean I just feel like a failure. No success. Just I fucking hate what I do. I have no other options or...
I don't know what I'm supposed to do. I don't have any answers. 
THERAPIST: As I would imagine, it's become clear, I don't particular have the answers either. I mean, I mostly help you talk about what it's like and when I see the waves are getting in your own way...
CLIENT: I just get the feeling that there aren't any answers, you know. Like when I was making money, I just pissed it all away. Now I'm just paying credit cards and now it's like I'm making so much little less than what I was making, you know. How do I get back to making the money I was making? Keep me busy. Keep my mind off of things. I'd be stressed, but I'm stressed now. So what's the difference?
THERAPIST: Well I'm sure you'd rather be stressed with all you have to get done, or keeping a dozen clients happy at the same time as compared to what you're stressed with now. No question about it. I'm not saying it was easy, but it can be a lot better. We'll stop for now. I'll see you on Friday. 
CLIENT: I just want to go back to bed. 
END TRANSCRIPT
