TRANSCRIPT OF AUDIO FILE:
______________________________________________________________________________
BEGIN TRANSCRIPT:
THERAPIST: [Where can we] start today?
CLIENT: This is (inaudible at 00:04) week. It was not a great week. It was not a horrible week, but it was not very good. (laughter) I think I told you the last time that I was having trouble with waking up in the middle of the night and then falling back asleep, not being able to stop thinking about stuff and then not really sleeping, but not really awake either? I don't know what that is exactly, but...
THERAPIST: When I talked to you last week, you had experienced that sort of one night when he had gone out to help a friend. So it sounds like this is happening more.
CLIENT: (laughter) (inaudible at 00:30) Well, I don't know. It seems like my body, it just loves routine. So if something happens that's not so great, it does that again the next night and the next night, and I can't seem to get out of it.
THERAPIST: So that event kind of sparked a pattern.
CLIENT: Yeah, and so for, like, the next few nights last week that kept happening until I got really tired by the end of the week. And I think (inaudible at 00:56) school was new lab mate is very excited and I don't want to (laughter) (inaudible at 01:02) go and home go to sleep while he's in there going strong. So anyway, I finally managed to almost sleep through the night one night last weekend, but instead of waking up in the middle of the night, you wake up early in the morning. (laughter)
THERAPIST: How early?
CLIENT: Like, 3:00 or 4:00.
THERAPIST: That's really early. That almost feels like the middle of the night. And not being able to fall back asleep after that 3:00 or 4:00, or doing this kind of half [in the middle] (ph).
CLIENT: Yeah and I kept doing the same thing. And 4:00 is terrible, because I'm not as tired as the middle of the night, but...
THERAPIST: Because you're not sure if that's early morning or middle of the night.
CLIENT: I start thinking about the things I should just drop and do, and I'm like, oh, I'm really tired, then I, like, can't go back to sleep. Anyway, so this happened a couple times because, again, once it happens once, it'll happen till I can stop. So I finally last night woke up at, like, 4:00 am. I think, I don't know, because I didn't look at the clock and that made a huge difference. I'm sure it was 4:00 am, but I just didn't look at the clock. I managed to go back to sleep. So, I don't know. (laughter)
THERAPIST: What direction does your clock face?
CLIENT: It's in the kitchen. So if I get up to the bathroom...
THERAPIST: OK, so you don't have a clock in your bedroom?
CLIENT: No. I definitely know that that's bad. (laughter)
THERAPIST: You know that that sometimes is problematic for sleep. It's not (inaudible at 02:18) this bad.
CLIENT: The clock.
THERAPIST: Yeah. It can make it hard—I mean, (inaudible at 02:21) does, it sets off that anxiety in you, "Oh my goodness, it's four o'clock in the morning." Yeah, so, I think not being able—not making it easy for you to find that out and have that reaction makes it, you know, makes it possible for what happened last night to happen.
CLIENT: No, I mean when this all started, you know, my room (inaudible at 02:41). Now it's as dark as possible ever. (inaudible at 02:43) now, (laughter) white noise, I have a sleep mask thing, whatever. (laughter)
THERAPIST: Right, as much as you can do to (inaudible at 02:50).
CLIENT: Yeah, I don't know. So this all goes back to me feeling the need to be a hermit, just to stay normal. (laughter) Because if something goes wrong and then I have to somehow stop myself from doing the same thing over and over. I mean (inaudible at 03:11)...
THERAPIST: So what made last night's response possible last night, that prohibited that from happening earlier? What do you think you did differently?
CLIENT: I didn't think about looking at the clock the first time, I just did. I just made sure not to look at the clock the next night. I mean, I should move the clock. But also, the night before—I think it was Friday night. And yeah, it was such a struggle to stay in school and do some work all day because I was so tired. And so, I was just so aggravated when I woke up in the middle of the night because it was Friday night and I was hoping I'd finally go to sleep. (laughter) So I was just in a bad mood already. And then Saturday, I tried to, like, just relax.
THERAPIST: How did you relax? What did you do?
CLIENT: I walked my dog around the lake. We hung out at the park.
THERAPIST: At what was your mood like? [00:04:13]
CLIENT: I mean, Saturday night is nice, right, because if I don't sleep, whatever, it's Sunday, I can just relax all day too. (laughter)
THERAPIST: So part of it is worrying about how you're going to function the next day on the day when you don't get the night of sleep that you're hoping for.
CLIENT: Yeah, or being mad that it was the weekend and I still couldn't sleep. I (inaudible at 04:33) on the weekend (inaudible at 04:34) sleep because I was really upset. (laughter) I should be so relaxed, but I wasn't. (laughter)
THERAPIST: So I'm wondering how much the thoughts that happen, like, when you wake up and you notice you're awake and you notice it's not morning time, I'm wondering how much the thoughts that are sparked right then impact your ability to actually back into a relaxed state and fall back to sleep.
CLIENT: Oh yeah. I almost think it's like alcohol, like, that your experience will depend on your mood when you start to (inaudible at 05:09), which makes me think I'm still missing something from my life, and I don't know if starting this DBT workshop will help. You know, maybe it was just that I used to Yoga and it wasn't Yoga, but it was at night. You know, it was always in the evening after work. (laughter) It was just a relaxing time.
You know, one night last week when I didn't sleep—I came home super late from a lecture and tried to go straight to bed and that was a mistake, because I woke up, like, two hours—that night, I woke up, like, two hours later. Because I wasn't—I should have—you know, everyone in that house was asleep. I should've just, I don't know, read outside, but I wanted to go to bed. That was a mistake (inaudible at 05:50)
THERAPIST: It was a mistake that you woke back up.
CLIENT: Yeah, because I went to sleep and I had—(laughter) it was last Tuesday actually, because I had invited my old boss from my company to go to this lecture because she likes to go to that kind of stuff and she remembers who I am. And so, [I had a] (ph) nervous about her coming and the lecture was fun and, you know, I ran her right home, hoping maybe (inaudible at 06:13) get to sleep and (inaudible at 06:15) stressful.
THERAPIST: You kind of had all this energy and...
CLIENT: Yeah. So I don't know. I don't know if I should meditate at night or (pause) listen to your [tapes at night ] (ph) (laughter).
THERAPIST: (inaudible at 06:28) (laughter) I think—it does seem like there's a process that you would benefit from being able to find because you crave routine. Finding a routine to help relax your body and to help your mind of the kinds of thoughts that tend to get you wound up. And you know, as I'm listening to you, I hear "I should have," and "clearly that was a mistake," these kinds of thoughts that go through your head. And those kinds of thoughts often intensify or trigger anxiety. There's, you know, ten or twelve, depending on which researcher you look at, but ways of thinking that tend to increase some sort of negative emotion, whether it be kind of a stressful anxious kind of feeling or, like, an irritated, mad or sad kind of feeling. And those are obviously not very conducive to sleep. [00:07:28]
So if we can find ways to try to alter those kinds of thoughts, then I think you'll have more control over setting an environment in your mind and in your body where you're able to either get back to sleep when you wake up or soothe yourself to a more deeper sleep when you actually fall asleep. Because I think, you know, what you experienced after the lecture is OK, you fell asleep but not a very deep sleep because you were, you know, you never got that really deep, restful kind of period of sleep because you were woken so quickly. And, you know, like, you can't necessarily control all of your thoughts. I do think you have some control over what you do with them once they pop into your head. When, you know, they pop into your head it feels almost automatic. Maybe you can't necessarily stop that, but you do have control over, like, what happens next.
As you were kind of telling me last time when we did the relaxation piece and I said, you know, notice what thoughts are going through your head. And you told me after we finished, like, "Oh, there were, like, a million and seven thoughts." I'm not sure what number it was, but it was a lot. [00:08:31] (laughter)
CLIENT: Yeah, it was.
THERAPIST: And we not be able to stop them from coming in, but I do think we have some control over what happens once they're there. And that will give you, you know, while you might not be able to have total consistency in what happens during your week. And I don't really want you to become a hermit and not see anybody. I don't think you really want to either.
CLIENT: No, but I am right now.
THERAPIST: Yeah, because you don't feel like you have any other way of protecting yourself, you know. So what if we can protect more of, like, what happens in here. You don't have to be so careful about what happens outside of, you know, your actual personal space.
CLIENT: Yeah, I mean, it is my personality, like, just do as much as I possibly can. And so now that that's backfiring that's just super frustrating.
THERAPIST: Yeah, because you want to be able to be you, but not have that make it possible to survive.
CLIENT: Yeah, I mean, by the end of last week, I almost was having the same feelings of, like, it was uncomfortable even to try to relax, like, on the couch because I was so wound up, but exhausted. [00:09:34] And then that just makes it all worse (ph), because I'm noticing that I can't, like, seem to sit still and read for half an hour at a time and then I just get more upset. (laughter)
THERAPIST: Because that feels so wrong to you.
CLIENT: Yeah, [it gets so] frustrating, yeah.
THERAPIST: Let's look at—I'm going to look and see if I have—and this might be similar to some of the stuff that you end up doing in DBT group. There's a lot of overlap between DBT and some of the cognitive, sort of cognitive modification, the strategies. So this is a list of the something called the Cognitive Distortion. So there's a couple of different, like, big researchers that work with thoughts and this is kind of a combination of their stuff. Take your time and read through those and just notice what you notice.
(silence)
CLIENT: Yeah, I've definitely done most of these things. Who hasn't? [00:10:51]
THERAPIST: Exactly. Most people have done most of these things at some point in time, and that's not a problem, right. Having these kinds of thoughts, you know, once in a while, some of the time, not a big deal. The problems becomes when you do one of these categories or a couple of these categories a lot of the time, because there's nobody that reads through this list and doesn't say, "Oh yeah, you know, I've done that." These are very common ways of thinking and they become problematic when they become sort of like the over arching (ph) way of thinking. Are there any of the numbers that feel, like, more—that stand out to you more than others as things you think you might do more than you do others?
CLIENT: Yeah, I mean, I think this past week wasn't as terrible as maybe other weeks? Like, I didn't move in with my mom this week (inaudible at 11:41). I'm not particularly mad or blaming anyone this week.
THERAPIST: (inaudible at 11:46)
CLIENT: Oh thanks.
THERAPIST: Make notes if you want.
CLIENT: And so there are no conclusions to jump to about, OK, "Well this means I should just quit grad school. This means I should just leave (inaudible at 11:53)." I just ended up sort of being frustrated (pause) or maybe it just never got bad enough that I [should be] (ph) jumping to a conclusion.
THERAPIST: OK, but there are times when you do that, but this wasn't one of them?
CLIENT: Yeah. I mean, maybe I actually succeeded in stopping (pause) the downward spiral. (laughter) (pause) Yeah, I mean, that's probably my biggest problem though, is (inaudible at 12:22) catastrophizing or jumping to a conclusion.
THERAPIST: OK, so that yeah. And a lot of these, for me, I feel like some of these overlap, so, I mean, it's not like a test if you get the right number or something because I think a lot of these categories are very similar. So catastrophizing is definitely something that you've seen yourself do.
CLIENT: Yeah, I mean, that's what started all [of this] (ph) (laughter), with quitting my job and then Josh getting sick.
THERAPIST: We had some pretty big catastrophes.
CLIENT: Is it catastrophizing if there's a catastrophe that could (laughter) (inaudible at 12:51).
THERAPIST: So part of catastrophizing is projecting what's happening now also into the future. So you actually, I mean, Josh being as sick as he was and the diagnosis that he has, it is a catastrophe. The part that doesn't work is when you jump into the future and say, "Well, because of the way he was diagnosis and because of the way that"—I mean, it was pretty dramatic, right, the way that you found out about it all, but that doesn't necessarily mean that that's going to be the course that it takes. And I think the catastrophizing piece is taking what's going on now and making a lot of predictions about a really negative course in the future of what's going to happen next.
Because it's also likely—what we don't know is, well, are there going to be, like, a lot of dramatic cardiac events or is the medication going to do its job and he can live a very full, happy, healthy, long life in the future. [00:13:58] We don't really know. They both might be possible. Catastrophizing is focusing on it's, you know, it might be good right now but it's going to be horrible in the future, or he's going to end up, you know, being completely incapacitated and I'm going to take care of him for the rest of my life—that's catastrophizing. And the, you know, the reason that I sort of took out this list and am working on this with you is that it doesn't really matter if you're right or wrong in what your prediction is, what matters is does it allow you to function in your life. Because we don't know what's going to happen next but what we do know is thinking that it's going to be totally miserable makes you not function now.
CLIENT: Yeah. You know what I used to do actually also? When I had, like, several periods of not sleeping for, like, a week and I was seeing—the first person I ever saw, I stopped seeing her after a while because I felt better and then I went (inaudible at 14:54) and then I saw someone else after because I didn't really (laughter)—it wasn't really working for me.
But anyway, she told me, you know, after you wake up in the middle of the night, you know, you're not going to die of not going (ph) to sleep, you know, because I was thinking about how, OK, I'm not going to sleep, I'm not going to be able to go to school and I'm going to feel terrible, blah blah blah, and my life is going to be over. (laughter) Except that at some point, after days and days of this, telling myself it was going to be fine if I didn't sleep, it was not going to be fine. It was going to be terrible. I couldn't cope with not sleeping. I couldn't tell myself it was going to be fine so it didn't work. Where was I going with this? I forget. There was a point to this.
THERAPIST: You said there was another thing I was doing.
CLIENT: Oh, I was trying to think positive thoughts in the middle of the night that were not true to me, you know, they didn't feel true. (laughter) And that just made it all worse.
THERAPIST: OK, so that's important feedback.
CLIENT: Which I still do sometimes.
THERAPIST: Yeah, think positive thoughts...
CLIENT: (inaudible at 15:54) thoughts will be fine. If I don't sleep, it'll be fine. I'm like, no, it won't be fine, you know. I'm going to feel like crap and I'm not going to be able to do all the things I want to do and, I mean, start flunking out of school again—not flunking out, but...
THERAPIST: But that's what you thought, what you think?
CLIENT: Yeah, I mean, I went to my calendar, which I've been, like, keeping track of whether I slept or not, and this almost backfired because (laughter) I was like, "I've been feeling so great lately," like, the week before I saw you last. I slept most of the week.
THERAPIST: Yeah, you've had a couple good weeks (inaudible at 16:22)
CLIENT: It was really only like a week and half. So I went to my calendar, I'm like, "That's it? Really?" (laughter)
THERAPIST: So it felt like more in the moment.
CLIENT: That's all? (laughter) Shoot, maybe this is just—I don't know. I was actually disappointed.
THERAPIST: Yeah, because you felt like it was (inaudible at 16:37) and I—so sometimes it's useful to chart things, and sometimes it felt like it backfired because then you were disappointed that it was ten days rather than more than (inaudible at 16:47).
CLIENT: Actually, I went (ph) through my calendar this past week, because Wednesday I took an Ambien after the second night of having a bad time. I thought maybe it would stop sort of this weird pattern of waking up in the middle of the night, but it didn't really work. And I thought maybe that the Ambien was trying (ph) to backfiring on me. I thought, look at the calendar and it did seem like every time after I took one, you know, I would not sleep. But I don't know if that was because of the Ambien or just because I just was not sleeping for a little while.
THERAPIST: Right (inaudible at 17:18). So I think from your experience of trying to convince yourself of something positive, that's too far in the other direction and I think the point of looking at what your thoughts are doing is not necessarily to convince yourself of something else that feels untrue, because that will only work for a little while. But trying to find, like, it's almost like trying to find the loopholes. When you're predicting the future, you don't know if it's going to be good or it's going to be bad. You just really don't know. And so trying to come up with thoughts that are more realistic and almost neutral, and to be OK with not knowing, to be OK with some certainty. You can stick there, whereas you can't, you know, if you try to do that sort of Pollyanna thing and convince yourself everything is wonderful and nothing's really is ever going to wrong or you can deal with anything and it's OK, for a while—that might stick for a little while, but it's not going to stick forever. [00:18:21]
If you can get OK with, "Well this is what's going on right now and I don't really know what's going to happen next," that's something that you can actually fold into the future for an extended amount of time, because it's very realistic. You do only know what's happening right now. Are you going to die if you don't sleep? Probably not. Are you going to be totally OK with no sleep? Probably not. But you don't have to go in one direction or the other. And so the idea is to come up with an alternate thought that's neither totally positive and trying to fool yourself, or catastrophizing and making things even more distressing than they already are.
CLIENT: Yeah, I don't know exactly how to do that. (laughter)
THERAPIST: We're going to practice together. We're going to practice lots and lots of make-believe situations, until you get the idea of how to come up with something that's not one of these distortions that makes things more miserable than they already are, and not something that's totally, you know, not characteristic for you and over-the-top positive. [00:19:27] So we know that there's some catastrophizing that's happened. And the reason that we're identifying the kinds of distortions is that will make it easier. Once we know which kind of camps you tend to fall into when you have some of these types of thoughts, then we'll know some tricks for how to change the thought to make it something that's a little bit more neutral and non-problematic.
Number nine, should statements? That's something I hear you doing. I don't know if you hear it.
CLIENT: In a past tense, sure, yeah.
THERAPIST: OK. "I should've not done that." You hear it? Why do you think that's—why am I harping on it? What might be problematic about it? What happens (inaudible at 20:14)
CLIENT: Because it results in guilt. (laughter)
THERAPIST: (laughter) Is it written on there somewhere? (inaudible at 20:19) does it for you? Do you...
CLIENT: Well, it results in a frustration. It makes me feel like my brain is not my own and that if I have to, like, tiptoe around it, you know. God forbid I wake up with a sleeping monster and I have to (inaudible at 20:33) (laughter). I mean, not a monster. I feel like it's like a little child that, you know, doesn't get enough sleep or food and starts crying all the time and whining, throwing tantrums. (laughter)
THERAPIST: OK, so for you, the shoulds or the shouldn't haves—they fall in the same category (ph)—result in feeling kind of frustrated and feeling like you have to be really careful with your baby of a brain, your...
CLIENT: Right, yeah, exactly.
THERAPIST: ...needy brain. I'm hearing some resentment there too, just listening to...
CLIENT: Yeah, I mean, I think this is still just a result of having sort of injured it, you know, (laughter) because I don't think there's anything keeping me upset with Josh or anything (inaudible at 21:14). I think that's all fine (laughter)...
THERAPIST: And this is kind of residual effects.
CLIENT: I think, I hope. Yeah.
THERAPIST: I'll buy it. And now I'm just looking at any other's that I feel like I hear you say. Kind of over-generalization, which is to me very similar to catastrophizing. And it's overseeing a single negative event. It's not really single negative event—I'll give you that. This is a repeated pattern, but I think when it happens again, like, when it gets triggered, you see it as a never-ending pattern. And so I'm going to give you that it's not single, but it's also not maybe never-ending. It's repeated, but it doesn't necessarily need to be repeated in (inaudible at 22:00), that maybe there is an ending point. And sometimes I feel like I hear you talk and you say that, "I'm going to have to quit grad school," and then we almost get into thinking it's kind of never-ending.
So then the next step—so [we're identifying] (ph) the way that you're thinking and we've decided that maybe it's causing problems in addition to the problems you already have. I'm aware that this sheet is really hard to read. Let me give you something to write on because I'm going to make you do (inaudible at 22:29) kindergarten type worksheet.
CLIENT: (inaudible at 22:33) for my kindergarten brain, we're good.
THERAPIST: In theory, it looks like it's going to be kindergarten work, but in reality, when you try to do it you find out that it's actually really, really hard. I don't know if I have a (pause)—that worksheet actually goes out of the order that I usually do it in, so you're going to have to coach me through it. What is the first thing say to do?
CLIENT: What are some of the typical situations that trigger negative feelings, which is irritation, anger, depression, despair and anxiety.
THERAPIST: So your typical situation is?
CLIENT: Well, I guess right now anything that (pause)—anything other than just being home and—anything that's slightly out of normal.
THERAPIST: So yeah, but when you do something slightly not normal, what happens?
CLIENT: And then I can't relax from it and then I wake up in the middle of the night.
THERAPIST: So the situation that triggers this for you is not being able to sleep or waking up in the night. So write that down. [00:23:29] So you wake up in the middle of the night and then you start to have these thoughts. And the reason I'm having it being waking up being the thing that causes it is because that's like a single event and there might be lots of different things that go on to trigger that. Some of them you know what they are and some of them you don't.
But trying to isolate it into what's the thing that actually makes you feel horrible, it's the waking up. Because it's not the—like, if you had something unusual happen. If you had gone out with friends or gone out to that lecture and slept through the night, going out to that lecture would not have been a problem. It's the waking up that makes it—so you're (ph) working to the, like, sort of lowest common denominator there.
All right, so step two is what?
CLIENT: What are some of the negative automatic thoughts or (inaudible at 24:19) I tend to have?
THERAPIST: All right, so let's just do a few kind of sentences that typically come up for you. So when you woke up and realized it wasn't the morning, what are some of those first thoughts that floated into your head? And we're going to word them verbatim.
CLIENT: Well, in some way, whatever I'm doing that week has been a failure, so whatever I'm doing is failing. For example, this week I forgot—and I've been on the pill for a week and it seems to not be having an effect. Or maybe (inaudible at 24:50), I don't know. (laughter)
THERAPIST: So write those down. "So, I went on the pill and it's failing."
CLIENT: Which is extra frustrating, because something about it seemed to work before or maybe it was just a random coincidence. So that was my cope. Or like the Chinese medicine, OK, it seemed to sort of help for a week, maybe because I was just hopeful, and it didn't work. So, my solutions keep failing.
THERAPIST: So that's a good sentence to write down, that my solutions keep failing. Were there any other thoughts that went along with that? (pause) Or that happened as you were not sleeping?
CLIENT: Yeah, just feeling really upset that, you know, except I think on Tuesday I was so pumped that, [I mean, I've been] (ph) productive all day and do work and not have to, like, get ten (inaudible at 25:51), which I don't do, or, you know, whatever, (laughter) force myself. I just managed to work all day and it wasn't (inaudible at 25:58). And then go out and enjoy this lecture and everything, that was—yes, like, I managed to have a great day. And then it was all, like, ruined. That would not happen again until I slept.
THERAPIST: OK, so it was all—I had a great day and it was all ruined.
CLIENT: It was all ruined, yep. And that I feeling had of feeling rested was just destroyed for the foreseeable future. (laughter)
THERAPIST: OK, so write that, "That rested feeling I had was destroyed for the foreseeable future." All right, let's stick with just those three. Is the next part to label the distortions? If it's not, we're going to do it anyway.
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: OK. So just taking each of those sentences, let's pick out what type of distortion the candidate (ph) falls into.
CLIENT: Well, going on the pill and that didn't help is, I guess, jumping to conclusions or (pause) I don't know. [00:27:08]
THERAPIST: Yep, that sounds good to me.
CLIENT: Or, I mean, it's a bunch of those things, I guess. My solutions keep failing. Well, things are definitely better, so I guess—I'm trying to come as long as things keep not being as bad as they once were? So I guess that's disqualifying the positive.
THERAPIST: Yeah, disqualifying the positive or very similar to that, the mental filter piece. And I don't know, I mean, it's not really right or wrong. So either one of those is...
CLIENT: I mean, that's more of my personality backfiring because I'm just an impatient (laughter) not calm person, so the difficults become...
THERAPIST: So you might not be able to change the personality piece but the spots that go along with it, you have some control over those. So, you know, just noticing, like, OK so nothing I'm doing is working. So I don't know if that's disqualifying the positive or mental filter—either one, but that's something that we can add on to or alter a little bit. And then there was one more thought. (inaudible at 28:46)
CLIENT: There are two more. It was all ruined and being rested was destroyed for the foreseeable future.
THERAPIST: OK, so it was all ruined.
CLIENT: Extreme over-generalization. (laughter)
THERAPIST: Or all or nothing thinking. And you have almost all nevers (pause). So all that rest you had is totally gone. [I'm going] (ph) to call that all-or-nothing thinking. And then I think that when you add on that, like, now it's gone for the foreseeable future part, that I think is over-generalization piece, right, because it's probably gone for tonight, but we don't really know about the foreseeable future. So I think that when you add on that second part of the sentence, you take it from all-or-nothing thinking and then over-generalized it.
So, we're going to keep in mind sort of all-or-nothing thinking, the over-generalization, the disqualifying the positive. The reason that we sort of labeled what kind of (inaudible at 29:54) they are, is because now we're going to try to come up with alternative thoughts to have. Once you've had those, we're going to up with some other thought. And knowing the type of kind of distortion that you're making will give us some clues about, like, how can we change it so that it's more neutral thinking. If thinking that—and the way that we test it is distorted thinking makes you feel crappier. Neutral thinking doesn't. It might not make you feel great, but what it does is it doesn't make it worst.
And our goal is not necessarily for you to feel awesome in these moments, but the goal is to create feelings that don't get in the way of doing what you want to do. So, you know, when you wake up and you think something that makes you feel more angry and more frustrated, it gets in the way of falling back to sleep. We're going to try to create thoughts that at least don't get in the way.
CLIENT: I think the first morning I woke up at 4:00 and I tried to go back to sleep, I was just getting myself all worked up. Josh, he wasn't snoring exactly, but...
THERAPIST: Oh, that makes for a harder situation [to handle] (ph).
CLIENT: Well (laughter) I just could not handle it and I, like, shoved him and he woke up. (inaudible at 31:02) "What's wrong?" "I can't sleep." And then he couldn't sleep and then he was angry at me all day. (laughter)
THERAPIST: So waking the other beast (laughter), not just the one you who woke on your brain.
CLIENT: Well then he was so cranky all day and I got mad at him and I (inaudible at 31:17) well I don't sleep...
THERAPIST: Ever. (laughter)
CLIENT: Ever (laughter), like, what's your problem. And (inaudible at 31:22) just becomes mad (inaudible at 31:23)
THERAPIST: And then that feeds off of yours because you're thinking, "Well gosh, I haven't slept for (pause) ever," which may not actually be true, but it feels that way in the moment.
CLIENT: Of course, then he doesn't feel good. He's like, "Gosh, you know, is it just sleepy or did I take any drugs?" or I was looking at his heart rate. It was just (inaudible at 31:43).
THERAPIST: So then you're contending not only with your own thoughts but also the dynamic too. And that's a harder piece. That piece we're going to leave off for now. We're going to work on just what's going on here—you have more control over that.
CLIENT: Well things were better last night because I got earplugs.
THERAPIST: Oh great. (laughter) One way to save the room.
CLIENT: I used to sleep with earplugs all the time, but nothing's bothered me like (inaudible at 32:09) in the middle of the night. And I almost made Josh move once because I was convinced that the cars were just too loud in the middle of the night and that was what was keeping me up. But once I started sleeping again, (inaudible at 32:20) then I didn't even notice the cars.
THERAPIST: So it's not—it's what happens when you notice them, that's the problem.
CLIENT: Exactly and I started freaking out because I noticed that there was sound (ph).
THERAPIST: Right. And so if you can eliminate the freaking out, the cars might not be that big of a deal. And right now, it's like—so use the earplugs if that helps with cars and snoring and all that. At some point, you're going to be so Zen that those won't bother you anymore, you won't need earplugs. But for now, it's a great physical...
CLIENT: Now it's like, oh I'm lucky to have a pair and I knew where they were in the middle of the night, because I haven't used them in a long time. (laughter) I feel kind of ridiculous when I think about it. I've got earplugs, a sleeping mask, fan going (ph)—I mean, it's just not (laughter).
THERAPIST: That's OK, those things are all OK. And at some point you may not need all of them but right now you do and (pause), you know, you're not the only person buying earplugs or they wouldn't be on the market anymore.
CLIENT: Well, like, my parents are going to visit my little brother this weekend at school. And, you know, they're staying in a hotel or they rented some place or something. (inaudible at 33:26), I mean, the first thing I think about when they ask me is, "Gosh, do I want to, like, try to sleep somewhere for the weekend?" (inaudible at 33:33) super late at night and it's going to mess everything up. And I don't know if it's better for me to go and just relax and see my brother, or, like, stay in my little cocoon of, like, earplugs and stuff (ph). (laughter)
THERAPIST: Either way, if you go and you have a lot of trouble, it's not going to radically alter your world. And if you stay and miss out on that this time, it's not going to radically alter your world. So there's pros and cons and you don't know how either one is going to go, but neither one is going to make or break the situation, you know. It's not going to magically fix it if you go away and it's perfect. It's also not going to make it that much worse if it doesn't go well. If you miss out on the trip and you sleep here and it's OK, is that going to change your relationship with your brother?
CLIENT: (laughter)
THERAPIST: No, you know, not in a major way.
CLIENT: I mean, everything just seems so mysterious to me still. Like when I went away with my family one time this summer, I went to my grandma's funeral, it was a disaster. Couldn't sleep at all and terrible. [00:34:40] And then I went away recently to a wedding and I was working all night and it was fine. I see no difference between the two except mystery. I don't know why, you know.
THERAPIST: Except how you responded to the situation—that's the piece that was different. And why did you respond differently? We don't really know, but some of this stuff will give you control over how you respond so that next time it's not on a whim about how you respond to it, but you're going to have specific ways that you know help you respond to it in a way that works for you. So let's try it.
So looking at—what was the first one?
CLIENT: Jumping to conclusions.
THERAPIST: Jumping to conclusions. Give me the sentence again of what...
CLIENT: Oh, it was because of the pill. It doesn't seem to be magically fixing anything.
THERAPIST: OK, the pill is not magically fixing anything and you're mad about that. Throw in a note, right (ph).
CLIENT: Well because I didn't want to go on the pill and I'm really convinced that it would help because I think it did before. [00:35:40]
THERAPIST: So we're going to note kind of how you were feeling. So I'm sensing frustration. I'm going to give you a plain piece of paper too. (background noise) So make four little columns for yourself, going down. So column A is the first one and you're going to do a shorthand of your sentence, so you remember, like the pill's not working. And then in B, you're going to write what your feeling was. You thought that and you felt what?
CLIENT: Frustrated.
THERAPIST: OK yeah, frustrated, mad, whatever. Now C column, this is going to be our new thought. So instead of thinking, "Ah, nothing I'm doing is working," what might be a thought that doesn't disqualify all of the positives? So it doesn't have to be a super positive thought, it just needs to be a thought that's not (pause) that one. [00:36:49]
CLIENT: [This is in the middle of the night] (ph). I'm not sure if saying something like, "I think at least things aren't as bad as they could be," is helpful.
THERAPIST: OK, so let's not say that then.
CLIENT: (laughter) That's what comes to mind. (pause) I mean, it would help if I had, you know, I was really worried about going on the pill. (laughter) So other solutions would be easier, I don't know.
THERAPIST: So what if you just made it less extreme? What if, instead of saying nothing I'm doing seems to be working, what if you made it less extreme by saying, "Well, the pill certainly didn't work tonight." Because it's not super positive that you're not going to believe, right. That's still believable, it's pretty honest. "This is not working tonight." But instead of being, like, "Nothing I'm working is ever working," it's limiting it for what's going on right now. What do you think you would feel then?
CLIENT: The thought that came into mind is, "Wow, I must be even more damaged than I was before." (laughter) That's what comes to mind.
THERAPIST: OK. So let's see what we—so, how can we make that a little bit less extreme?
CLIENT: So the last time I was on the pill, after I went off it, then I had my terrible trip to Italy or not helpful trip to Italy—another couple months of ending school feeling terrible, which makes me think that. But anyway, so to not think that...
THERAPIST: Well, just think it less extreme. (inaudible at 38:27)
CLIENT: I mean, that actually is good because then that leads to (inaudible at 38:29) time, I guess.
THERAPIST: I'm sorry, that's good how?
CLIENT: Because that allows me to think that I just need more time (laughter) because I'm not going to fix everything (ph).
THERAPIST: OK, so let's jump to that thought. Let's see if we can capitalize on that. "Maybe I just need more time." There's a little bit of hope there and it's not completely unrealistic because it still honors the fact that right now, this is not good. But maybe it's not that it will never be good—maybe you need more time.
CLIENT: Yeah, I just have to try not to regret (pause) my rationale decisions of the past to go off it and know that, like, the end of the world (inaudible at 39:10). But I can probably do that (ph).
THERAPIST: Well, so what could you do to help yourself stay focused on the right now, rather than going back to regretting the past?
CLIENT: Well, just giving myself more time is good. Seems to be working.
THERAPIST: OK. So if you—so now we have to (inaudible at 39:32) an imaginary name. If you had woken up in the middle of the night and thought, "Well, clearly the pill is not working for me tonight. Maybe I need more time with it." What do you imagine you might feel if you had thought those things? (pause) Honest.
CLIENT: I don't know exactly, because whatever I was saying before, you know, if I wake up I wake up feeling either super aggravated or not, just depending on I guess what I was doing before.
THERAPIST: OK. So if you woke up and you thought those things, you think you'd be super aggravated, a little bit aggravated, ecstatic?
CLIENT: (laughter) If I had just convinced myself to just give it more time the other night, I probably would've felt better than just sort of ending up freaking out and waking up Josh and him (ph) being self-destructive basically. (laughter)
THERAPIST: So probably not ecstatic, but maybe not quite as aggravated as you had felt with the other thoughts. [00:40:36] For now, that's the goal, is we want to just decrease the negativity and not necessarily move it to feeling positive but at least take the edge off so it doesn't feel quite as miserable. Before you go, let's do one more of the sentences and see if we can just get you used to the process.
CLIENT: Let's do "everything's ruined now."
THERAPIST: OK, so that goes in your A—so you can just sort of, like, make a line for, like, separating the two examples. So in the A column goes the sentence that you thought. (pause) And then for B, it's the emotion, like, what came out of thinking that? What were you feeling when you think everything is totally ruined?
CLIENT: I'm more frustrated and sad that I can't continue on this—I don't know. Sad and frustrated. [00:41:38]
THERAPIST: Sad and frustrated, those are perfectly reasonable answers. And so then our next column is a thought that we're going to think instead of everything is ruined. So to give yourself a clue of how to change the thought, what kind of distortion do you think "everything is ruined" is?
CLIENT: Let's see, where did we say it was? All or nothing.
THERAPIST: OK, so to change an all-or-nothing thought, we just have to make it a little extreme. It's not, you know, make it something, rather than all-or-nothing. So instead of thinking everything is ruined, how can you make that a little bit less extreme?
CLIENT: I mean, what comes to mind is that I can get here again, but that makes me feel more tired (laughter) at the thought of having to somehow figure out a way to sleep again. So that doesn't work.
THERAPIST: OK, so let's try something else.
CLIENT: Thinking everything is just ruined for tomorrow is not helpful either. (laughter) I don't know. [00:42:38]
THERAPIST: OK. So what might be ruined, if it's not everything for tomorrow? Could we limit it at the everything part?
CLIENT: To just school?
THERAPIST: Or is school really ruined?
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: It is?
CLIENT: I mean, yeah, it is.
THERAPIST: You can't go in (ph) at all?
CLIENT: No, I can go to school, it's just (pause)—it's no fun. (laughter)
THERAPIST: OK, so let's keep it to that. So (inaudible at 43:05) not going to be tomorrow, but it might not be totally ruined, like, you still might (pause) be able to put in face time, maybe get something accomplished. Can you get anything accomplished on those days?
CLIENT: Depends which day and the—I mean, small amounts maybe. It's a little, you know, tough. (laughter)
THERAPIST: But it's hard, OK. That's OK. So let's be realistic about it. So instead of saying, "Everything is ruined for tomorrow," you could say, "Tomorrow's going to be tough." That seems honest and also maybe a little bit less extreme than the first thought. (pause) The other thing I heard you say was you're going to be really tired and admitting that to yourself saying, "OK, I'm going to be really tired tomorrow," is a little bit different than, "I'm going to be miserable and everything is going to be ruined." So maybe labeling it a little bit more precisely, rather than the really global kind of ruined kind of, because that's such a global feeling? [00:44:14]
CLIENT: Yeah, I mean, it didn't get so bad again last week as it used to but, I mean, it wasn't just tired, you know. I felt sick, I felt nauseous, like, (laughter) I didn't even (ph) want to take the bus because it made me feel ill and it was just unbelievable.
THERAPIST: OK, so let's keep them to those words then, because those are specific rather than global. Instead of, "I'm going to feel," "I might. I might feel sick and nauseous." Because it's possible to how you felt in the past that there are also sometimes (pause) days when you've been surprised, when you thought it was going to be horrible and then it wasn't. So leaving a little window of, "Well, I might feel sick and nauseous," which then kind of clues your brain into like—or maybe it's going to be one of those miracle days that I've had where I don't sleep and then I actually feel horrible.
CLIENT: Yeah. Also, by not sleeping, I guess for one night, the second day, third day or whatever, I go to school and I almost feel like an imposter. You know, I talk to people who don't know what's going on and pretend everything's fine and that just stinks. [00:45:19] (laughter)
THERAPIST: And so trying not to jump ahead and think on day three or four is going to feel like on day one.
CLIENT: Yeah, I mean, I do really try to be optimistic on day one, which then makes me feel really strange—or not strange. (inaudible at 45:38) saying when I started, but my body just gets stuck in these patterns and (inaudible at 45:40) just recognize that that's a problem more. (laughter) Kind of break out the pattern (inaudible at 45:46).
THERAPIST: Or just noticing sometimes where you are in the pattern. So, like, on day one of the pattern, even though you have experience with day one often comes a day two or three, but when you're at day one, staying at, OK, this is the first day.
CLIENT: Well, you know what'll help is if I wake up in the middle of the night on day one, just knowing that's going to happen the next night and being prepared (laughter) I guess. I'm going to wake up in the middle of the night again, but I'm going to not look at the clock or whatever and start freaking out. (pause) Because I'm not sure (inaudible at 46:13). I mean, that isn't what's going to happen every single time, but it seems to be.
THERAPIST: It's definitely happened in the past.
CLIENT: I mean, if I eat lunch at one o'clock one day, I'm going to be hungry at one o'clock the next day. Like, it's ridiculous. Like, it's not just sleeping. No matter what I do about it. (laughter)
THERAPIST: Your body just craves that...
CLIENT: Wants routine, yeah. To the hour, I will wake up in the middle of the night, like, the same minute (inaudible at 46:37). (pause) And I don't know if that gets better with being relaxed or that's just how I am, but...
THERAPIST: Being relaxed will give you more flexibility because if you can control—and part of it is not just being relaxed but you being able to relax your body. It's you getting in control of what actually happens, so it's not just a whim of whether you're relaxed or not. And when you can control that, it's going to give you more flexibility. It doesn't leave it up to the day before. It leaves up to what are you going to actually be able to do to yourself.
CLIENT: Yeah, I mean, maybe I just need (inaudible at 47:21) sort of babying things and how (inaudible at 47:23) some sleep into (pause) one week. I thought it was more than a week. (laughter)
THERAPIST: But it is something to build on and whether you baby yourself and give yourself that consistency or not, in the long run that's not what's going to make the big difference. In the long run it's going to be how do you respond, whether you have the consistency or not.
CLIENT: Well, I only mean in that the less tired I am and when I have a problem, the easier it is to recover (ph).
THERAPIST: Yep, absolutely. And that's always going to be true, no matter what. So I'm looking—I guess my wish for you is not just wish for you is not just what's going to get you through the next couple of weeks, but what are the things that we're going to be able to do that's going to allow you to respond over (pause), you know, the next 20 or 30 years. Because that's the stuff that's going to make a big difference in your life, is what can you build up to how you respond to these situations, you know. In the next week or two, whether you have that consistency, it makes it easier. I care about that too because I care about how you feel at the moment, but this stuff about how training yourself to respond it going to last a lot longer. [00:48:39]
So you can take all of these worksheets home and this is sort of your homework, is to try to practice going through those, you know, going through those exercises just like we did today. Pick one thought a day to practice that on. You know, writing down the thought, noticing how it makes you feel, noticing the kind of distortion that you're making and try to come up with a thought that just eliminates that distortion. It doesn't have to be a positive, you know, "go, you can do it" type of thought." It just needs to be a thought that doesn't have one of these kinds of distortions on it that's maybe a little bit more middle-of-the-road.
And I just want you to practice doing that and the end goal is that you train yourself out of some of the distorted kinds of thinking into more neutral kinds of thinking in an automatic way, and that takes just repetitious practice, going over and over and over, forcing yourself to thinking that way. And eventually it will be a little bit more automatic to have a more neutral thought. But you don't want to return to what you started doing with that previous therapist of having them be, like, over-the-top positive, because that's not believable and that's not sustainable. More middle-of-the-road is more sustainable and more believable. [00:49:55]
CLIENT: No, I mean, most of the stuff I've tried so far has been over-the-top. I think I told you my dad gave me his, like, (inaudible at 50:01) tape and it's all about how the future's going to be perfect and wonderful and magical and (laughter)
THERAPIST: I find that that stuff is just a little bit harder to keep up. And if we can keep it more middle-of-the-road, I think you'll be able to—it will feel a little bit more believable and I think it'll be a little bit more sustainable and then it will work for longer. Not feel as foreign to you either, kind of fit in a little bit [in there] (ph). It's still a stretch, but it's not quite as much of stretch from where you are. Does that sound doable?
CLIENT: Yes [that sounds good] (ph).
THERAPIST: OK. So next week we're back on the normal (pause) 3:30?
CLIENT: Yep.
THERAPIST: And then I think there's one day where—so just looking ahead into October, October 9—I don't know if I told you this, but I'm out of the office that day for a medical procedure due to Tuesday. It's nothing major, I just can't (inaudible at 50:56) the office that day. So I don't know if you want to try and pick a different day that week or just skip a week and then every other Tuesday in October works at our normal 3:30 spot for me.
CLIENT: Gosh. Well, we can just skip that week.
THERAPIST: OK. Is that all right? I mean, I'll be in the office on Monday the 8th, if we can find a time that works.
CLIENT: Yeah, I mean, Monday's (pause) free, so.
THERAPIST: On the 8th I have a 12:30, a 2:30, a 3:30.
CLIENT: I could do 12:30.
THERAPIST: OK, so let's do that, that way you don't [kind of] (ph) miss a week.
(silence)
But the next week is normal.
CLIENT: (inaudible at 51:48)
(background noise)
[Here, give this back to you] (ph).
THERAPIST: Thank you. All right, so I will see you on Tuesday.
CLIENT: And I'll bring the (pause) (inaudible at 52:11).
THERAPIST: Is that right? (inaudible at 52:15)
END TRANSCRIPT
