TRANSCRIPT OF AUDIO FILE:
______________________________________________________________________________
<b>BEGIN TRANSCRIPT:</b>
THERAPIST: It stays, it's a lot cooler in the room (inaudible at 00:00:04)
CLIENT: Yeah. Well it's nice out.
THERAPIST: Yeah, really like let me know if gets too warm.
CLIENT: (inaudible at 00:00:10) like I notice that I am already sleepy so it's adding to my sleepiness.
THERAPIST: Oh, good. I'll just remind you next Monday -
CLIENT: Yeah -
THERAPIST: I'm not here. But we can certainly, I can maybe e-mail you a couple of times.
CLIENT: Okay, that sounds good.
THERAPIST: I don't think I have many times before or after though -
(CROSSTALK)
THERAPIST:  - that would be best for you. Then I'll see what I can do. I'll definitely e-mail you a couple of options.
CLIENT: Oh also, so I've been figuring out the insurance (inaudible at 00:00:36). Do you take Neighborhood?
THERAPIST: I don't. In fact, I don't even think as a private practitioner you can. Because I once looked into it. I think usually it's like clinics that do, like you have to be a group I think.
CLIENT: Okay.
THERAPIST: But yeah, unfortunately I don't.
CLIENT: Okay. So it's three others that that I can't remember off the top of my head that I could choose from.
THERAPIST: Your husband's I probably because he has, most universities you can get out-of-network benefits. And where is he again?
CLIENT: BU.
THERAPIST: He's at BU. I'm pretty sure that they would cover, I mean -
CLIENT: He has BCBS.
THERAPIST: Yeah I'm pretty sure that they would coverage such that I would just charge you like a small co-pay. But you're not, you don't think you're going to go on that one?
CLIENT: He and I have to talk about it now that I can officially see the costs of the other plans offered. So we have to–actually he just left, too, out of town for a job interview. And so but we have to kind of figure it out. We definitely have to figure it out. And I, yeah okay. Anyway so because I would have to enroll, I think, before the semester starts (inaudible 00:01:52) figure it out. But he left to go out of town again. And I really (inaudible 00:02:02) I was really upset about it.
Usually it's not that big of a deal and I'm fine but for some reason I got really upset I think because he like I had all last week off pretty much. The family that I work for decided to go take another trip out of town the last Wednesday, Thursday and Friday so I worked on Tuesday. And for the last two weeks he and I have pretty much just been hanging out and spending time together and it had been so nice when he left and (inaudible at 00:02:43) so sad. Plus I (inaudible 00:02:48) like unfortunately I'm back to work today. But I think everybody probably feels that way after a two-week vacation.
Yeah, I don't know why I was so excited about it. You must go through a lot of tissues, at least just for me alone.
I don't know if it sounds like that I'm tired of the whole job thing because that's what it's for. It's for more job interviews and just things that either comes along with all of that or if it was, I don't know what it was exactly. But, you know I just couldn't quite, I was like super nervous about him flying and I'm usually that kind of stuff doesn't really freak me out. But I was really nervous something would happen to him and I was just really sad about it. (Sniffling).
Yeah, I've been trying to, something you said last week. You said, you were talking about how as my anxiety kind of gets better I've been feeling sadder. And you said something about well it makes sense because anxiety (inaudible at 00:04:29) just helps to kind of like mask the things that you're really feeling instead to, when I've been feeling really anxious and trying to identify what the other feelings would be other, like what else I have negative feelings about in the situation and trying to like, you know, go on those feelings instead and try to deal with that. And it's kind of, it's, it's working when I cannot figure out what it is I'm feeling upset about but when I can't, it's not as easy for me.
THERAPIST: Um hmm. Well you're upset about your husband leaving.
CLIENT: Um hmm. Yeah. But I don't (inaudible at 00:05:29). I guess that's normal to be that upset about the husband's (inaudible 00:05:34), I think. He's also gone for my birthday. So that makes me really sad.
THERAPIST: When is your birthday?
CLIENT: Wednesday. I don't know. Yeah. I also just, days after we've, you know, Friday we went out with friends and we had some drinks and then Saturday friends came over and my girlfriends and I had some wine and the days after I drank my anxiety is thru the roof. And that's something I know about myself. And then I don't know if it's because I tell myself that's how I feel. And say like, "Ohhhh, you know, you drank a lot last night." You, I don't know if it's because I'm telling myself that I'm going to be anxious or if it's that it actually is something with, I don't know. But–
So Saturday and Sunday I was just like a ball of tension. Chris left Saturday afternoon. So I walked him to the train and then he left and I went home and just couldn't shake it all day until my friends came over and all day yesterday just by myself (laughing) like a lunatic.
THERAPIST: Like a lunatic?
CLIENT: Yeah (laughing). I just feel like a crazy person in my house when I was by myself like just, like I'm just sitting here, there's nothing that, like this isn't an anxiety-inducing scenario. You're just at your house. Just calm down. And so I just sit there feeling like "get a grip, get a grip."
THERAPIST: What do you think is scaring you?
CLIENT: I don't know. I have no idea. I guess being alone. But that doesn't really make sense because I really like being alone sometimes. (Sniffling). I have no idea. I can't figure it out and it's driving me crazy. But I just feel anxious about something. Then I do these other–
So, the family that I work for. I can kind of predict they will remember and won't remember certain things and all day yesterday I kept thinking like I should probably remind them that I'm coming late tomorrow. But then the other part of me thinks like they should know, this has been happening for weeks now on Mondays. They should just know. They're responsible adults. I shouldn't have to continue to remind them of these things. And then, you know I go back and forth like well it's, you know, the responsible thing to do. You're there child care provider. You should remind them this is the situation that's going to be happening. And then I eventually just don't end up reminding them. Like I just didn't text them to remind them today that today was going to be another day that I, another Monday, like the last (inaudible 00:09:40) Mondays.
And I don't know if this is just something that I do on purpose to have some sort of (inaudible 00:09:52) because I know what my fear was. My fear was that they would say, you know, that's not going to work. You're going to need to come the time that you're supposed to come. But instead of being responsible and taking care of that and letting, reminding them that this situation's going to happen I just don't do it. And so I feel like I do these things a lot to myself. I just like know that there could potentially be a situation that's not ideal but I just do it anyway. And I don't know why I do that.
I feel like I'm like intentionally creating this unpleasantness for myself for whatever reason. Because even when I, you know, yeah. So I'm like their most responsible person but -
THERAPIST: Well did the unpleasantness itself, it sounds like in this particular situation, you're concerned that they would kind of deny you something that is important to you.
CLIENT: Um hmm. Right. But it's like at this point in my life the responsible and mature thing to do is to–I know. I know them. I can predict it well enough that they probably won't remember and that they'll be kind of scrambling. And then I'm sure that they'll remember when I'm late. But I should just have told, reminded them and then I just like, it just, I don't know.
And I just do these things where I just think that people I think just look at people this way where it's like well, you should just know that. And so I'm not going to remind you because you should just know. And then I just have this kind of attitude sometimes. And it's not something I like about myself. But I feel like that this behavior in particular is something that I've just done a lot, or it's like I know that the situation I'm putting myself in is going to be more kind of unpleasant for me once it actually happens. So why don't I just take care of it?
THERAPIST: Do you feel like it's a lack of responsibility on their part not to keep track of it?
CLIENT: Oh, completely. I, that's the thing is that I, I think like this is your responsibility because this is your situation and I've give you enough, I've repeatedly told you and I repeatedly and so, I give people like x amount of whatever I determine and then yeah, I think like if you can't do this now on your own then that's your own problem, not mine anymore. (inaudible at 00:13:34). I feel like it wasn't very, it's not a very responsible thing for me to do. I'm just not very considerate.
THERAPIST: Well maybe this is the issue sort of where does your responsibility end and someone else's begins.
CLIENT: Um hmm. Yeah.
THERAPIST: Because you certainly feel that very deeply with your family.
CLIENT: Um hmm.
THERAPIST: And maybe there's a way in which you're able to sort of, at least in your mind, drop the ball more when there's less at stake.
CLIENT: Um hmm. Yeah.
THERAPIST: Or different things at stake. And I have probably less at stake, too.
CLIENT: Um hmm. Yeah, I think that's what it is and I think it's this like intentional, intentional (inaudible 00:13:34), intentional carelessness, intentional like that's not my problem. That's just not my problem. And, and in this situation it's different too, because I, in, at work I take care of a lot of things like, you know, I take care of like, a lot of stuff. And then I have, I have these very clear distinctions where I say like "and then it stops here". Like I'll do all your laundry but I will not put it all away. And I'll do, you know, I'll take the girl, I'll cut the girls' fingernails but I won't give them a haircut. Or I'll like I'll do this but I, you know, I have these very clear–and to them it probably doesn't, I don't know.
I feel like the, I just have these very distinct boundaries at work that I don't have in my other natural life. But it, I can feel it being really, like a power thing and a control thing and I know that's what it is. It's that, and I can feel myself doing it and saying like and not getting frustrated when things–my work situation is just strange in the sense that for me being a person who is so primitive controller has a desire for control, I have the ability to control a lot of things for the most part and then the biggest thing is these little girls and those things are really, they're not my children so a lot of the things are completely out of my control.
And so a lot of the times I feel really frustrated like "why are you doing that?" Why is this, how can they–
And so I have this kind of like, I feel sometimes having this backlash of these instances when I think like, when I, I guess kind of act out I guess, I don't know even where I just kind of go "eh", you should know. It's just, I don't know.
THERAPIST: It's like you're in a particular kind of dialogue with them in your head.
CLIENT: Yeah, definitely. Oh definitely yeah. And then, and that, and then I should, and then I kind of assume, but I do that with every relationship. I do that with Chris, I do that with my friends like "don't you just know that this is what I've been thinking in my head for the last five days? Like don't you know that I am just having this whole–and then if I do X, Y and Z then you should assume because of that this is how", you know what I mean.
I have these whole scenarios, I guess. But having the last two weeks off has kind of made me realize how unhappy continuing to do this job makes me. I have just, obviously the last two days were not really, particularly speaking to that. But for the last two weeks I was just so happy and so, for the most part, anxiety-free other than the last two days pretty much. And I just, I don't, I feel like going to other people's houses and watching their children for the last 10, 15 years has really, I'm pretty done with it.
And I just, I don't know if it's because of these, it's just something that I, nobody wants foot work. I'm fully aware of that. Fully aware that you know, nobody gets up out of bed and says like "Yes, let's go do this." But uh -
THERAPIST: I don't know about that.
CLIENT: (Laughing) Yeah. I'm sure there's a lot of people that, there's some people that do. But uh -
THERAPIST: I know about the getting up early part.
CLIENT: Yeah, (laughing). But I, I just, I get out of bed and I just want to stay. The thing is on my days off I'm up at 8:00 and I'm like making breakfast and I'm packing his -
And of course, it's because I'm on vacation and what-have-you but I just, it's making me kind of miserable. Going, I feel like I'm going into somebody else's life for ten hours a day and then I, after those ten hours I get to go back to my own. Not that like this is a part of my life and this is, this is my job and I am a part of these kid's lives and they're a part of mine and this is–and that's how I used to feel in these jobs. But over the last year it's just starting to feel more and more like I have to go into this person's world for these ten hours a day and I have to do this list of things and when that's all done, then I get to go to my life. And it just doesn't work really for me anymore.
THERAPIST: What is it like going into someone else's life?
CLIENT: Well it's not very fun. It, I feel like I go there just to like, do all the things that they don't want to do, that they, you know, the cleaning, the cooking, the laundry, the everything. I go there to do all the things that they don't want to do. And then I, you know, and play with the kids and watch the kids and then, you know, and then I leave and I get to go back to my life.
But this is what I'm paid for. This is my job. I'm fully aware that this is my job. And so I feel really, sometimes like stop fighting. This is, you're getting paid to go and do this. You chose this. This is, you know, you knew that this was the way that you could make (inaudible 00:21:36) money for you and Joe and this is what you've decided to do. So either do it or don't. But like so I just then get mad at myself. And you know I told them that I was leaving in May because I wanted to give them enough time to figure out the situation for the girls for school and everything. And so I know that there's this end in sight and that May is pretty close. But that almost just makes it worse sometimes because I just think like oh, I've got to wait just until May, just until May.

And the thing is seeing the girls is great like, you know Hetty and I went to this music class on last Tuesday and I got to see her really, Hetty is the baby, see her really, she really like got certain things that she hadn't been getting and there's some parts that are so rewarding and I just love it and uh, the part with the kids where it's me getting to actually experience the kids is great. But it's the other parts that are like, "Oh, get me out of here." (Laughing and sniffling).
So yeah. And then of course, I just start getting critical and resenting their parenting style and I'm just, that, it's just not my place. I mean not to them but in my own (inaudible 00:23:25).
THERAPIST: What don't you like about their parenting style?
CLIENT: Uh, they coddle the girls. The, you know, like when the older one milks certain stuff a lot. And there's this constant feeding into it. I'm like just behaviors that are acceptable–standing on top of dining room tables and swatting light fixtures and that that's an acceptable thing even though it's completely unsafe. And just things where like that there's this idea that, I don't know. It's just like a lot of, they're amazing parents and so they really love their kids. But they're, they had never been around kids before having kids.
So they don't, they're very you know, they also put a lot of emphasis on what I say. And so then I feel like well if you're going to ask me and then you're not going to do it then why are you asking me at all. And so, you know, we would have these, we'd have like summits. So we'd sit down and we'd have like 2-hour discussions. Like I'm asked to bring bullet points of the kids' behavior and then like talk about them for 2 hours. But then I'm the only one that shows up with a list. And so then I feel like well (inaudible 00:25:03) asked me to like criticize your child's behaviors here or like what are we–and then I have this, I feel really weird, uncomfortable. I don't know. It's this -
THERAPIST: Boy that sounds obsessive.
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: Not on your part.
CLIENT: No, no.
THERAPIST: That's really obsessive. It's like they're in school -
CLIENT: Yes.
THERAPIST: But how often do you do that?
CLIENT: Um, a couple of times a year. Yeah. It's intense. And she e-mails. She's a processor for her job and -
THERAPIST: Clearly a liability as a parent.
CLIENT: Yeah. And he, he's a tax guy. And so he's very, you know. He likes, I think they both like hard numbers. And I mean not actual. But you know what I mean, like hard, concrete, I think they like these things. And I just don't relate to that. I have more of like a, for kids, I have more of like a kind of in the moment kind of feeling of like if I don't, if like something feels right or doesn't feel right I kind of go with it in the moment instead of, so I just, we aren't compatible in that way. And I knew that when I took the job. But I took it anyway because I was so desperate. And I thought that I could put up with it for as long as I knew I was going to have to but it's, it's definitely very wearing.
And as the girls get older it's very apparent, you know, Sadie's 4 now and she's very bright. She's so, so, so, so, so smart. And she knows certain things are going to work with me and certain things that are going to work with her parents and if I'm gone for long enough, I come back. So I know today would, today's going to be a hard day because she's going to have, you know she's going to have meltdowns and she's going to have a lot of behaviors that are okay with her parents that she knows I don't put up with. And for me that's always like, "Oh, you're with your parents too long". Now we don't cry because we don't want to wear our hat, you know like. And so I do a lot of these kind of things like "Your parents ruined you". I don't say that to her obviously. But in my head I'm thinking like "Ohhhhh", I know how much you probably cried over the last two weeks but that drives me up a wall.
THERAPIST: Well it sounds like you feel they're very intelligent.
CLIENT: Yeah. So indulgent. So indulgent and just so spoiled. And I -
THERAPIST: Well it's such a contrast with how you treat yourself which is, you can be very harsh and very critical and you're hardly indulgent when it comes to yourself or when you feel like you're indulgent and you sort of like when you drink or something then you feel terrible about yourself the next day.
CLIENT: Yeah. Yeah it is. It's very opposite. And it's very, it's just opposite of how I was, you know, brought up. Not that I was brought up well at all but I just, even my, you know, my mom I feel like was the more stable parent. Just always took a very hard line with kind of like with whining and with, I guess not tantrums. My brother had some tantrums but with me I felt like, and with just any sort of, well I had kind of like a "suck it up" attitude. You're fine, suck it up, get with the program and let's go.
And I'm not really the same way with the girls. Sometimes I am because I do think that crying about putting your coat on in January just isn't going to fly. But I am kind of more of the mentality of like "Alright come on. Like, let's go, let's do this. Let's like, you know, let's get together. (Sniffling). And that's not, and it's very opposite of their parenting style which is like, "Alright well explain to me why you would feel that way. Why don't you want to put your coat on? It's win–you know, why does this - ." And I just think like, "Put your coat on. Let's go."
So I had a (inaudible 00:29:42) tricky level on. "Oooo, I want to show you this trick about putting your coat on" and these kinds of things. Just ends up being a big charade.
THERAPIST: Charade in terms of what?
CLIENT: Me and my, I just don't say anything pretty much anymore because I'm always afraid of what I sense the older one especially is so verbal and so, she remembers everything. And so I'm very afraid of something I say being repeated in this other way. And this, because they've before, the first year I worked with them, there are three separate instances when they approached me about things that felt really accusatory.
One was they had, Sadie was 2 at the time and they said the grandma saw her spank her baby doll on the bottom and they asked me about it. And I don't know if they were asking me if I had spanked her or, and I absolutely hate spanking and I hate anything like that so it felt really, I just felt really–I guess not attacked but I think I, I felt like I was being accused of something and I am.
And then there was another instance when they asked about Sadie said don't tie me to the potty.
And then there was another instance when they said they saw hands.
And after the third one I said, I sat her down on the bed and I said, "I don't think this is the best working environment for me anymore. I'm feeling really accused" and I tried to quit and because I just felt like, alright. This is the third time that I'm feeling really uncomfortable about the questions that I'm being asked and kind of the tone in which, you know, Andrea, the mom started crying, got all upset and said she was not insinuating anything like that, this, that and the other, and but I still - . So that was over a year ago. And they haven't insinuated anything like that ever again.
And I don't think, and she said to me, "I wasn't asking you anything like that. I just wanted to know if you'd seen her use, have these behaviors with you or if you knew if she picked something up on the playground." And I still don't know to this day if she was insinuating or wasn't or what she was trying to get out of it. But I just, I'm a childcare provider. It's always in the back of your head that you think like if something happens, I feel like it's going to come, like you're so responsible for these little people that matter so much and so it is this big fear of like "Oh my God, what if I got accused of something that I just didn't do." And for me that's like I'm terrified of that. (Sniffling). So uh -
THERAPIST: Well you're terrified of it in part I think because you feel so guilty.
CLIENT: Right. I do. I feel like I'm doing something wrong. I feel I'm not living up to their expectations and their hopes of me as this, I, you know I feel like they like think I'm this great nanny and I feel like I just don't live up to that. And so I feel like, and since I disagree so much with their parenting style, I feel like if I say anything that it'll come back and look like– because sometimes I just think like "she's a little brat right now." And I would never say anything like that but I feel like just don't say anything because it could come back.
And so a lot of times I just kind of like I nod my head or I do something and then I just kind of remove myself from situations because I just am so afraid of something coming back and it looking like I did something wrong, I guess. But it just, it makes it, makes me feel really unpleasant going, it makes going to work feel really unpleasant going. Makes going to work feel really unpleasant because I do constantly feel so nervous.
And mostly I guess it's just surrounding Sadie, the older one, because it's been more of like suggested this, things that (inaudible 00:34:28) more suggested are probably, Hetty calls me mama and it's, I think, there's just like this, there's always been, Hetty and I have more of a bond. I've been with her since the day she was born and it's just we're very bonded. And so for some reason I don't feel threatened by that relationship in that situation at all. Actually it feels like the reverse of that.
I think a lot of times Andrea the mom feels a little bit uncomfortable with the situation because of that. But with Sadie, the older one, I feel really like nervous about any interaction I have been misconstrued into something. I don't know, I just, it's this like layer of tension that I just feel like surrounds that from these early kind of instances. She had later said after she had had this one nanny from when she was really little, she was a year old and then she went to preschool for a month and then I started being her nanny and a year later, after she had had this last nanny, she apparently recounted some story of the other nanny spanking her or hitting her across the face or something and she, so she would have been just a year old at the time and then she was telling it as a 2-1/2 year old.
And whether it happened or not I don't know but I'm the, you know, Andrea, the mom was obviously really upset about it and asked Sadie to repeat the story and broke the whole story out and they had a nanny-share with another family that lives across the street and basically used the nanny. So then there was this whole meeting of the two families and we have to tell you this and that happened.
And as the new nanny I just felt like I don't know if that happened or not but this seems like, I don't know. It all seemed a little bit interesting, that a 2-1/2 year-old would remember something so as a 1-year-old. It all just felt like I don't know. I've been around kids long enough to think my instinct would (inaudible 00:37:07) to think like kids just say stuff sometimes. For whatever reason sometimes kids just say stuff, whether they had a dream about it or whether they–I don't know. But I was, Andrea was on maternity leave at the time. She and I had been together ten hours a day for three months. And uh -
THERAPIST: So you started nannying before -
CLIENT: The baby was born.
THERAPIST:  - the baby was born.
CLIENT: Um hmm. And I just, the whole situation made me feel really uneasy. And -
THERAPIST: Like you were under a microscope?
CLIENT: Yeah. Oh and that you know, even a year after the fact with this other nanny that she is still like, there what, if she, if this situation did happen then it's, you know, it's very upsetting and I would be very upset as a parent and very concerned. But I kind of always questioned it. And then it just made me feel really like well anything, anything this kid says is just taken as Bible. And so -
THERAPIST: Like a guilty until proven innocent?
CLIENT: Um hmm. Yeah. And then the reaction that it gets and it's this whole, but you know, the tears and then everybody's meeting and the whole big thing and it feels like wow! I don't know if I want to be here anymore. But then the feeling of like well, this is all we have. Chris doesn't have any, isn't making any money. We're accruing debt. I can make a lot of money here. So I stay. So yeah, it just -
THERAPIST: Do you, I mean do you feel like it replicates feelings from your childhood like you've no way out, you're stuck here?
CLIENT: Um hmm. Yeah. And I think that's what it was when I first moved here with Chris honestly. I have these, whenever I feel like I'm stuck in these situations it makes me panicked. And those are the feelings that I have when I'm, you know, at work sometimes. The girls go down for a nap and I'm just sitting there like I'm physically stuck in this house with them. Stuck here. And I am trapped (Laughing). I can't get out (laughing). I just feel like a caged animal. I have to get out of here. (Laughing). But yeah and I think yeah, you know, those situations make me very uneasy. So but those situations are going to keep existing. So I'm going to have to figure out how to cope with them. But I don't -
THERAPIST: Well a caged animal's such a vivid image.
CLIENT: Yeah. It's that pacing, that like circling that like feeling like "Oh my god. How do I get out? How do I get out of here?" It's not a very pleasant feeling. I don't know but at the same time I guess it's just not going to really go away because I'm always going to be, I'm always going to be not trapped, that's the wrong word, but there are going to be times when there are situations where you just can't leave from.
And if I do want to have a family, there are times when I'm going to feel like, there are going to be times when I can't leave, when I can't, you know what I mean? So it's like, so that scares me then even more when I start thinking, when I know that what I'm feeling is like I can't leave here. But then I know that going forward, what I want is to kind of, if I do want to have a family then I'm going to have moments when I can't leave my house because I have babies and they're sleeping. And when I, you know what mean? There are going to be times when I feel like, I just feel like I have to get under control.
THERAPIST: Well that they'll be situations like that is very sure but that your experience will be the same with those situations is not like a given because one of the reasons that you're here is to kind of help you work through some sort of some triggers and experiences that right now feel like so much apart of you but that are based from the past. And the situations now are different than the situations back then, but they trigger the same kinds of feelings.
You know even, I mean I understand that, you know, you need the money. But even this idea that like this is the only family, this is the only job is a particular kind of experience you're bringing to that situation.
CLIENT: Yeah. I guess it's part laziness. I don't know what it is.
THERAPIST: Then how's, what do you mean?
CLIENT: Because I could just get another job. Well I feel like not now. Who's going to, right now the idea of leaving this working situation for another four months sounds, seems really silly. But in the past it's like "Well why don't you just get a different job? Why didn't you just do something with less hours or with a family that fit better?" Why did I stay in this situation that I know isn't a good fit? You just, I don't know what could I do? I get nanny jobs really easily. Usually it's my like first or second interviews that I–. You know usually I go to an interview and then I just get the job. And I'm fully capable and aware. It would have been easy enough for me to get another job.
THERAPIST: Yeah, I guess I'm not sure why you're translating like kind of this feeling hopeless desperation to laziness.
CLIENT: Because I just, because I feel like I just didn't want to put in the effort to get another job. Like because if I, I could have.
THERAPIST: Well that's in retrospect. At the time it didn't sound like it was just laziness. But you're very, very critical of yourself.
CLIENT: Yeah I need to work on my self-esteem.
THERAPIST: And it sounds like this situation of your not reminding that family that you're going to be late today is sort of like, it just kind of reinforces that you should be critical of yourself.
CLIENT: Um hmm. Yeah like it's not, like no matter what any situation involving me that could be seen as negative is always because of me. It's, I always think of it that way. And it's always but like, well I could have done something in this situation to make it better. Or I could have done, I know what's going to happen. And so if you know what's going to happen why don't you just fix it?
THERAPIST: You know 'Patient M', we're going to need to stop for today. Do you want me to look now at an alternative for next week?
CLIENT: Oh sure.
THERAPIST: Would that be good?
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: So the thing is and I don't know, I'm pretty sure I don't know if this is going to be late enough for you in the afternoon but I know I've like a 4:00, ten after 4:00 next Friday.
CLIENT: Um, I don't (inaudible 00:45:29) until 6:00.
THERAPIST: Yeah, I didn't figure. The other thing is I could do something early that Friday this weekend (inaudible at 00:45:39) or earlier. I could do an 8:20.
CLIENT: Okay.
THERAPIST: Would that work?
CLIENT: Yeah, that's good.
THERAPIST: That would work?
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: That'd be great. So that would be 8:20 and that would be on the, so it's in a week and a half.
CLIENT: Okay.
THERAPIST: Okay?
CLIENT: Great.
THERAPIST: Do you want to card for that or -
CLIENT: No, no, I can remember.
THERAPIST: Okay great. So I will see you next week then. Okay, take care. Thanks.
<b>END TRANSCRIPT</b>
