Transcript of Audio File:
______________________________________________________________________________
BEGIN TRANSCRIPT:
CLIENT: Just a couple things. Next week I'm not going to be around, so we're going to have to reschedule that one. I can't do next week so I'll just get (ph) the following weekend, so I'm going to let you know. Because we have been testing at school and it's just heck big.
Everything is going good. Had a little bit of anxiety this past weekend when I was in class, and I've actually been getting a lot of it when I'm doing my psychology classes. We talk about — well, this week we talked about rage, and what leads up to the rage, and how particularly the student feels and what's going on. [00:01:05]
And the whole time as my professor is talking about it, I'm just thinking back to my situations with it, and thinking about, "Oh my God. That is so true. That's what I felt." I could feel it building and I could feel my muscles getting tense. I could feel my stomach just hurting, and I could just feel my blood just boiling and boiling and boiling, and then I could feel once it exploded — we talked about how you do get personal, how you do attack people where it hurts. And for me just sitting through it it's very difficult, because I do — I know it's a class and I know this is tough to experience, but I want to share it with my professors but I don't, because I don't want them to judge me, because it is my own personal problem that I'm working on and trying to get a hold of. That's the last thing I want is someone else to counsel me when they don't have the backstory and what I'm feeling. [00:02:23]
I think it's very anxious for me, because I do start to feel like I'm hyperventilating. I do start to get the attacks. I do start to get the uncomfortableness, and at times I just need to walk out. It actually happened in a couple other classes before when we were talking about substance abuse, especially with cocaine. When we talk about cocaine and what it does, it just triggers a memory, a fear that I have, and then it's really difficult to control myself, because I want to — I just start panicking, and I get really anxious and really shaky, and I just get uncomfortable. [00:03:25]
I know we started talking about the uncomfortableness of my drug addiction, and how even to this day I still can't really talk about it without getting very anxious. When there's stuff that triggers my anxiety, I get really anxious, and I try to do what I can to avoid it instead of facing it. To be honest, it's really not working for me, because I hate feeling anxious. I hate the anxiety feeling that I get, because I do feel like I'm not in control. I do feel very scared. I do feel very panicky. [00:04:19]
It's very uncomfortable. I mean, this happened almost a decade ago and I'm still fighting it. I'm still fighting the urge. And to believe it or not, after we talk about stuff like this where it triggers an anxiety of mine, the first thing I think of is I either need a drink or I need some marijuana. Like I need something like that, or a cigarette or something. That's my coping mechanism. That's how my brain is wired. I don't do them, but that's the first thing that pops in my head, was "I want to smoke marijuana," or "I want to have a couple drinks to help get that thought out of my head." [00:05:17]
I'm starting to get those more and more, even just sitting in class. I'm not doing anything. I'm not putting myself in a situation. It's just all the situations that have happened in the past, when we're talking about it there's just a trigger, and when that trigger goes off, I pay attention to it a little bit, and then the more and more I focus, because of what I went through I'm fascinated with learning it, it's just that extra point that goes over and the anxiety kicks in and I can't really control myself. [00:06:02]
And people ask me. They're like, "Are you all right?" I'm like, "Yeah, I'm fine," and then I get up and I go out of the classroom and I take a couple deep breaths and I try to calm myself and get myself back together. But there's still something inside of me that's not addressed. There's still something that I'm still afraid of, and I don't know what it is. I say I've come to grasp with my addiction and I've moved on, but whenever we mention certain aspects and just learning new material, it triggers something in the past and boom. [00:06:47]
I don't know if it's still part of the trauma from when I overdosed. I don't know if it's still part of the addiction that I have, that that addiction comes out because that's how it knows to get the best of me. When we are really in an uncomfortable situation that's the first thing we turn towards is those substances. It's been a real struggle this last year and a half, especially with the schooling and with learning about all these diseases and diagnoses that you do have, and here I am going through grad school diagnosing all myself, like "Oh, I have this. Oh, I have this." I think that's what puts the anxiety back into me, is just knowing it, and knowing what to look for. And actually living through it really makes me uncomfortable. [00:08:00]
It's something I really can't explain. Like the rage one — this was the first time it came up. It's fine. I do understand that. I have been really good with my rage. I haven't really blacked out and gone off. The last time I did it was a couple months ago, and that was that. Now I've taken some different approaches where I just digest the information and I just process it, because it's not worth me getting so angry about and getting so enraged. But I do see the rage, and I do see the anger come out of my mom a lot. There's a lot of times where she does just go off, where there's like a word and then you can just see it, because I have the same mannerisms. She just gets really shaky, and she just — [00:09:03]
THERAPIST: What makes her angry?
CLIENT: My dad's family. Everything she hears about my cousin and my grandmother just sets her off, and she just gets really angry and just starts yelling. And you can see the look in her eyes, because she gets like I get. I just have that look where I'm not me. And she just starts shaking, just going off and just saying all these negative things, and how much she hates them, and this, that, and the other thing. It's just — it's sad because, I mean, there's a point where it's just like, "Well, you've got to move on. You've got to work on helping yourself out." [00:09:58]
And I do feel bad because she feels that — we don't want to support it, but I go about it in a different way. My grandmother has been back for two weeks, and all my siblings have seen her. I'm the only one that hasn't. My dad sees her every night. My mom has even gone and seen her. I haven't seen her. I have no desire to see her. I keep making excuses why I don't see her. And for me, it's sad but it's not, because I feel like I don't have an emotional attachment to her. I feel all that emotion that I was supposed to have, that most normal kids have with their grandparents, I never had. I may have had it when I was younger, but after that it just slowly, slowly deteriorated, and it's just to the point now where I have no emotions. [00:11:06]
I still ponder every day about if something happened to her if I'd go to the funeral, and for me, that bothers me. Because I should want to see my grandmother. I should want to go to her funeral. I should want to do all this stuff, but I have no desire to. I think I still have that abandonment feeling from her from when I was younger, how she was never there for me, never saw me as living, as being part of her family. I was always an outsider. Like, "Oh yeah, that's good." And it's tough. [00:11:57]
It's tough because I do feel like that, and I do feel that way towards my dad's sister. My girlfriend and I had a conversation the other day, even coming home. I was like, "I don't understand why I hate my family so much." And she goes, "Well who do you hate?" I go, "Well I hate my dad's sister, I hate my dad's sister's husband, I hate my cousin, the one that used to live at my grandmother's house, I hate my grandmother, I hate my uncle that owns the restaurant, I hate my cousin that runs the restaurant, and I kind of hate my other cousin who's got nothing to do with the restaurant." [00:12:44]
And then there's all these other family members that they're fine. I don't hate them, but out of my whole family I hate like eight of them. I hate them to the point where I kind of would wish harm on them. Like I have with [inaudible]. I wish the worst on them, and I don't know why. They're supposed to be my family. They're supposed to be my support, and these are the people that I have all these hurtful thoughts towards. If something happened to them, I don't know if I'd be there to help them out, because they weren't there to help me out.
THERAPIST: Yeah, on one level they really failed to meet your expectations, and you're not really sure what to do with that disappointment.
CLIENT: I know for a fact that I hate my aunt because she stole a substantial amount of money from my dad. Her and my uncle. And I know that they used it to pay for my cousin to live at my grandmother's. So that's why I have a lot of hatred towards them. I have a lot of hatred towards my grandmother just because she was never there for me. All she did was be negative to me, and criticize me, and told me I was always fat, you know, pretty much gave me the impression that I wasn't loved. [00:14:10]
Then my uncle and my cousin with the restaurant — my cousins — I just hate them because of the restaurant. I hate the way they treated me. I hated the environment that I was in. I hated how they kept lying to me, telling me that I was like their son, their brother, and next thing you know I'm being treated the worst employee that they had. And I do — like you say, I do feel like I was betrayed a lot. Because growing up you have this high expectation that your family won't do anything to hurt you, and that's what I kept hearing when I was growing up, is "Never let go of family. Family will always be there." But as I grew up, as I witnessed, my family ended up hurting me the most. [00:15:00]
And for me that's unsettling. That's unsettling to the point where I want to — it's like I mentioned earlier way back in our first sessions. When people break that trust with me, when they cross a line that I find (inaudible at 00:15:22), I consider you dead to me. I can go in a room and not acknowledge you. I can go anywhere and say, "No, I don't talk to you," and not talk to you. It's been done. I haven't talked to — I don't talk to my own family, in almost years. I know I'm laughing because I'm nervous and all this other stuff, and I do it as part of my way of hiding stuff, but to me it's not the way I want to be feeling. [00:16:02]
There's just so much negativity and so much that's been done that I don't know if there's enough time to resolve what's been created in my mind. I just feel that no apology, no actions could change my thinking of them. And it's wrong, because I am kind of a forgivable person, but in reality I'm not. My girlfriend told me the other day — she goes, "I don't understand it is about you, that you hold grudges to the highest level that they can be held at. Your threshold of a grudge is way higher than I've ever seen." [00:16:58]
She's actually been witness to it. When I was in that fight with my cousins and my aunt and uncle, I didn't talk to them for seven months. They'd come to my house; I'd sneak out and leave. I didn't want to see them. Then my mother and my dad are getting mad at me like, "That's disrespectful. Why are you leaving?" "Because I told you, I don't want to see them." I don't. I don't want to see them. Even at the restaurant — my parents went to the restaurant for dinner the other night and they asked how I was doing. "Why doesn't he come visit?" I have no desire to see you. I have no desire to be there. It's becoming to the point where my family is more my friends, because I kind of feel like I have a good support group with them. But now I kind of feel my family is mostly Lucy, my girlfriend. She's the one who's been there for me through it all. [00:18:09]
THERAPIST: What is her ethnicity or background?
CLIENT: She's Polish — she's a little Spanish, English, Russian, she's all that. But she's been the one who's really been supportive through all this, and the one that's really been there for me. I can say this. Without her I don't know if I would be able to move on with my treatment and with my quality of life without her. It's just — she gives me the goods and the positives and the negatives, but she does — she's fighting the same battle with her family. [00:19:06]
Right now we both have a lot of hatred towards our family. Hers is more her immediate family, her mom. Mine is more relatives. And it's tough situationally, because we're both trying to coach each other in the right way, but yet we're both experiencing the same hardships. It's really difficult to help each other out because I don't know what to do. Like her and her mom I'm just — at the beginning I told her to cut her off, because I did it. That's how I handle things. If I can't handle you or if I can't deal with you, I shut you off. You're gone. You're over there and I'm — it's like a toy. I leave you there and I forget that I own you. [00:20:05]
And I know it's hard, because she wants that good relationship, that quality relationship that every mother and daughter is supposed to have. She doesn't have it. It bothers her. And it does bother me too a lot because I do see people walking all over her. I do see how upset she gets, and I want to be her support system. I want to give her good advice on what we can and can't do, but my advice is more harsh. It's more irrational than hers is. It's more extreme, as we call it. It's very extreme. [00:20:55]
I want to change it, I'm trying to change it, I'm trying to have an open mind about it, but I don't have a desire to, right now or ever. It's a motivational thing. I don't know. I think I've seen my grandmother once this year. I went up to the hospital and she was sleeping, and it was for probably a minute or two, and then I left. And that's the only time I've seen her this year. I see her maybe once a year, if that. It bothers me a little bit, but I don't know how else to react. [00:21:45]
What does bother me a little bit is if something does happen to her and we're at the funeral and it's very emotional with people crying, what are people going to do when they see me just no emotion, no nothing? That crosses my mind too. What are people going to do when they see me when I have no emotional attachment to her? I'll just be sitting there with a straight face.
THERAPIST: What do you think people would think about you?
CLIENT: They'd think I'm cruel. They would think I'm cruel. Like, "I just lost my grandmother. Why aren't you sad? How can you just not cry over this?" I don't know. I don't know. I don't have an emotion — with my grandmother, there's no emotional attachment in my head. I wish there was a switch I could flick on and off. There's not. There's like no filter there for an emotion part. [00:23:02]
Because to me she's just like any other old lady. She's like my friend's grandmother. I don't really know her. I've seen her once in a while, but I don't really know her. That's how I kind of perceive her in my head. I don't perceive her as my grandmother; I perceive her as like one of my friends' grandmothers. I'll put it this way. We went down to see Lucy's grandmother for her birthday earlier this year, and my grandmother's birthday was later. I felt more that Lucy's grandmother was my grandmother more than my own grandma. She's just fun to be around. She's just lovable. When I was down there, her and I sat and talked for hours and just had fun. There was a connection there. [00:24:07]
My grandmother — I can't tell you the last time her and I even sat down and talked. I don't even remember it if we did. Then I see my girlfriend's relationship with her grandmother. It's awesome. You can see the love. You can see the caring. You can see the adoration that they have for each other. Then I look at mine and it's complete opposite. I kind of look at it as her relationship with her grandmother is like my relationship with my parents, where we do truly care about each other, but her relationship with her mother is like my relationship with my grandmother. Did you follow that? [00:25:00]
THERAPIST: Yep, I do.
CLIENT: Where there's just a lot of negativity and a lot of hatred, and the more and more we try to fix it, we can't. To me that's — I find that to be ironic, how Lucy and I have so much similarities in not only our personalities, but in our families. We both have that negative piece in our family. Hers is more immediate than mine. It's something that we are working on fixing, but it seems like we've just hit a wall, and we're still trying to figure out how to make our plan to start climbing it. [00:26:00]
I feel like I've been at the base for 25-plus years, now that I look back on it. I really do. I feel like I've been down on the base, and I don't know what to do. Because, yeah, she's alive, but from what I hear from my dad she's just lying in bed. She can't really see, can't hear. She's unable to eat anymore. I just — I don't know. And I see how much it hurts my dad because it is his mom, but for me I just — I don't have that emotional piece. I don't have that empathy for her. I really don't. [00:26:53]
The one thing that I do fear at the funeral is that a lot of stuff is going to happen, especially from my mom talking about once my grandmother dies she's going to do this, she's going to do that. I'm just like, "Oh Jesus, here we go." Because once something happens — I've been waiting. I kept my mouth shut and I've kept my actions quiet from my dad, but if my grandmother does make it to see my cousin's wedding, it's going to cause a lot of controversy because I'm not going. I'm not going, and when people ask me, I'm going to say I wasn't invited. When they're going to be like, "Yes, you were," I'll be like, "No, I wasn't." [00:27:47]
This is my way, like my vengefulness. I'm getting back to the time my aunt had my grandmother attack my mother, where she told me that my cousins were living there, and my little brother had a pool party at my grandmother's, and my cousins were taken away by my other cousin because my aunt Trish told my grandmother that her kids weren't invited. So this is my way of getting back to her and telling her that I wasn't invited. I didn't feel welcomed. And I'm going to say that. My parents are going to make excuses, but that's not my excuse, because I already know they don't know my address. They won't send an individual invitation to me. They didn't even send me a save-the-date for this wedding. I've already got my plan — it's already there, and now I'm just in the process of executing it. [00:28:58]
(chuckling) And here's my funny laugh again, but I look at it and I'm just like, "It is childish, but it's how I think." It's how I go about doing things. It's how I kind of stir the pot to get back to where I'm in control again, to where people know both sides of the story as opposed to one. Because my parents are still upset that I keep saying that I'm not going, but they think eventually I'll come around and I'll go. They don't understand that I'm really not going. I told my cousins — I go, "I'm not going." They go, "I wish I didn't have to go." I go, "You don't." [00:29:50]
My goal is hopefully once they see me not showing up, not supporting this kind of bologna that's going on, and putting on this fake face that everything is all right after what I've known is done, maybe more people will start doing — maybe more of my cousins and my family will start seeing what's going on. It's very — my mind just — it's very negative. It's got a lot of negative plans in it.
THERAPIST: And if they saw what was going on, what do you think — would they do something about it? Is that what you wish? [00:30:40]
CLIENT: I don't know. I just wish that some more people would speak out; more actions would show. I just want people — I guess what I'm saying is I want people to hear my side of the story. I want people to hear how I was treated, how my dad's sister's kids were always put on a pedestal, and I was always the dirt. Now I want those roles changed. I don't want to be on a pedestal by any means; I just want to be heard. And for me the loudest words that I can speak is to not be there, is to set that precedence, is to tell them, "No, I'm not — no, I wasn't invited."
"Well what do you mean you weren't invited?"
"I never got an invitation." [00:31:38]
Because I already know that's how it's going to happen. I know exactly how it's going to happen. And I guess I get this sick smile because I'm kind of hoping for the — anticipating confrontation, maybe because I've been longing for a confrontation for so long. Because I've always kept my mouth shut and just held my tongue because of my dad, because of respect for my dad, but now enough is enough. I'm to the breaking point where I need to get my side heard. I need to speak out. I need to let my other family members know we're not the bad guys. My mom is not a bad person that my aunt keeps telling you she is. My mom didn't steal money from my father; my aunt did, and that's — I'm slowly weaning (ph) that. I know my dad is going to get upset with it, but I want people to know how they truly are. I want people to know what they do. I want people to know that they steal from their family; they use their family. It's not right. [00:33:00]
I'm tired of being silent in front of them. I'm tired of biting my tongue. I'm tired of "You don't say anything; it's not your business." Well, it is my business now. I'm a man now. I'm ready to tell my side of the story. I'm ready to let people know what's really going on. Because everybody still attacks us to this day, thinking we're the ones — "Why are they doing this to Trish? Why are they doing this?" No more. And even my dad is getting upset with his sister, but I know he won't say nothing, just because he likes to put on the happy face that everything is okay. It's not okay. It's not okay.
THERAPIST: It seems like one thing that upsets you is that they can get away with it. [00:34:00]
CLIENT: They have been, and they continue to. There's no accountability, and that's what bothers me a lot. It's just a lot of things that have happened to me that are negative as people do stuff and they're not accountable for it. There's no punishment, there's no confrontation, there's no nothing. I guess I was always the one who was always defeated. I was the first person to drop it, because I was told not to get into it when it's not my business. But now I'm the type of person who's going to hold people to their accountability. I understand a lot of it's going to be an emotional decision, but I can't keep my mouth shut anymore. I can't. I want people to know you're a thief. I want people to know you stole from my father. Get that pretty girl angel image out of people's heads. Put the devil in their heads now. [00:35:07]
I want people to know that because of her I never had a grandmother. I want people to know that. I do. I want people to know that. "Why don't you ask my aunt why I'm not crying? Why don't you ask her?" This is the stuff that goes through my head. These are all the plans that I'm planning on implementing, the "bombs," as they say, I'm going to be dropping. I know I'm going to get a lot of crap for it, but I don't care. I really don't care. [00:35:54]
If I moved away tomorrow and my grandmother died, I don't know if I'd fly back for the funeral. I say this to my girlfriend all the time too. If my aunt Trish died, I don't know if I'd go to her funeral. I don't know if I'd go. I just don't have that type of relationship with them. I don't have that emotional relationship with them. I have them as being a-holes that used me, that used my dad, that constantly saw us as weak. But really I wasn't weak; I was just held back. Now I'm not held back anymore. Now I think I'm planning on being my own person and going — instead of being held back from attacking and doing all this stuff, I'm going to be the attacker now. I'm going to be going forward. I'm going to be coming after them. [00:37:00]
But for me I do get scared, because I do get a lot of rage, and I am extremely scared that I'm going to get into one of my rages where, again, I could black out, things could be said, it could get physical, I don't know. Just because I have this much hatred. And when I have a lot of hatred and a lot of stuff, it just blows over. And if I can get (inaudible at 00:37:34) piece by piece, hopefully I can prevent the gigantic outbursts from happening. Because I do fear that. I do fear that it's coming if I'm around them long enough, and I think that's kind of why I avoid them, is because I don't want what's happened to Lucy to happen to them. [00:38:01]
It's scary to me that I can do that, and remember everything, and be conscious, but not understand what I was thinking, where I just go into this blackout stage. When we were talking about the rage in class, how they go into a blackout stage and you don't have anything, and having lived through that, it's scary to me. It's really scary to me how a lot of certain triggers can just engulf the rage. I kind of feel like the Incredible Hulk. When he gets really agitated, that's what happens. I feel all the signs, and I kind of get some of the signs when I'm around them and I can't say anything, so I leave before it escalates. I have to control myself. [00:39:08]
It's something that I'm working on. It's something that I'm glad we're talking about, because I know if I haven't been coming to treatment, and haven't been working on my anger issues and my control issues, I'd still be having a lot of rage. I never really got the rage till recently. The rage is fairly new. It's happened within like — actually that's probably a lie. I don't even know, because I've probably done it many times and not known it. I actually haven't really paid attention to it till recently. I'll change my words there. [00:39:57]
But before, I probably did it hundreds of times and not known about it. I just thought I was agitated, but now that I know about it, and I know what causes it and what can potentially trigger it, and how you feel it building up in you, my goal is to control it, is to prevent it from happening, because I guess it's what's gotten me into trouble before.
THERAPIST: What do you think it would feel like to let go of the rage?
CLIENT: Completely? I don't know. I guess I'd kind of feel weak. I think it's like a power thing with me, because when I do get enraged I do feel that I am empowered over that person or those people that I'm around. [00:41:11]
I think a lot of it would have to do with if I didn't let this stuff bother me and I didn't get enraged, I'd feel like I was very weak, and that people would continue to walk all over me and use me and just be like, "He's someone who I can take advantage of very easily." For me that's not settling. That's bothersome for me, because I don't like to be seen as a weak person. I like to be seen as a strong person who wants to help people, but also if you're attacking me and you're picking on me, I do have the strength to defend myself. [00:42:08]
I think that's probably the main thing. If I lost all my rage, if I really gave it up, I think part of me would feel defenseless, and I don't want that. I don't want to feel completely defenseless. I think that's part of a defense mechanism that I have. It's not the best one, but it reminds me that I'm still defending myself. I'm still looking out for my own personal wellbeing. Without it I don't know how I would be. I've been taken advantage of so many times that I feel like I was defenseless for a long time, where everything I did I couldn't defend my own self, and I didn't have anyone to defend me. [00:43:24]
So I guess that's my one fear, I think, if I were to let go of the rage, is that I'd be defenseless, and I don't know how comfortable I'd feel with that. To be honest, the more I think about it, the more I'd rather control it than lose it. Because I feel once I learn how to control it and to avoid it happening so often, I can still feel that I have a defense mechanism, but it's not used all the time. It's only there for emergencies when I'm really feeling down, and really feeling picked on, and really feeling like the only way I can get out of a situation is through this. [00:44:28]
THERAPIST: How does it protect you?
CLIENT: (pause) It protects me in a way where I just — it lets people know I'm not a pushover. I kind of use it — well, I guess it's been used as a way of intimidation, where you can push and push and push, but when I push back I'm going to push back very hard. I'm going to push back to a point where you understand you've crossed the line; if you cross the line again it's going to be worse. [00:45:28] I think that's what helps me a little bit just from my experiences with it. It just gives me that sort of dominance, for that little bit of time that it happens, over that person.
THERAPIST: It makes you feel powerful.
CLIENT: It does.
THERAPIST: I don't mean to stop so abruptly but I realized we're out of time.
CLIENT: That's all right.
THERAPIST: So I'm going to see you in two weeks. Is that correct?
CLIENT: Two weeks from today, yeah.
THERAPIST: Okay.
CLIENT: Thank you.
THERAPIST: Good to see you. I'll see you in two weeks.
CLIENT: All right. Have a good day.
THERAPIST: Bye-bye. [00:45:58]
END TRANSCRIPT
