Transcript of Audio File:
______________________________________________________________________________
BEGIN TRANSCRIPT:
CLIENT: Oh, we just got in last... late last night from New Hampshire. We went out for the weekend for Easter. And it was fun because we got to kind of like... Chris got to see the place where he's going to be living. Which he hasn't ever gone up and kind of like saw us that way. Which it (inaudible at 00:25) the other groups, but we walked around where our apartment is and stuff. That was fun, it was nice. It was... it was hard seeing my parents. Not hard in the sense of the weekend itself was hard, by... but hard being like, "Oh, yeah, that's probably be an issue, and that might be an issue." But more reassuring in the sense that the things that I saw that were issues, I know are going to be coming, I see a solution to them. And I see a way that this doesn't have to be terrible. And it doesn't actually have to be something that I'm kind of dreading. So that was a relief.
And yeah, so those things are all good. We had - we went up and my brother picked us up. And I know my brother... mine and my brother's relationship is weirder when we're in New Hampshire because we fall into these - I don't know if it's because that Chris is there too. And so they're not... we don't want to leave Chris out. And so they kind of do their guy thing, and they watch golf. And they - a lot of times I feel like he and I, because our relationship grew so much stronger for the last seven years while I've been living in various places, that when we - it's primarily over the phone. We normally get together. It's not all the time, but sometimes, it feels like we fall back a little bit into this other... into the rules that we're more used to when we were together with our family.
Which makes me a little nervous for when we move up because I don't - like yesterday, I would just get - I think - he was in a bad mood yesterday during our family gathering. My mom had to run... my mom had to run over to her house for Easter, she has a bunch of other... she has six brothers and sisters. And so they all come with their kids and their kid's kids, everyone comes. My brother is in this really bad mood. And he would just snap at me. And he would... he'd be watching the golf. And he'd... in another totally part of the house and then he would just hear a conversation I was having, and he'd just chime in with his... a jab for no reason. And it just drove me crazy. Like, "I'm not talking to you. Leave - you worry about you. And I'm going to be over here having this other conversation. This doesn't involve you." But now my feelings are hurt, and I think about it. And I think about it like, "Well, maybe whatever thing was stupid. And why was I saying that? And what was my - "
We were talking about a... a friend, I mean, my two cousins and I were talking about a mutual friends of ours, moving to England to be with... to marry this man that she's only been dating for a year. And one of my cousins was saying how ridiculous this is and was like... really ragged on the situation. And I was kind of trying to play devil's advocate and was saying like —I don't know. You get really wrapped up in that first year. And everyone was so... "Don't you remember that feeling?" And I was like, "I picked up and moved across the country with a guy after a month of dating." And my brother heard that and said, "Oh, we know who the bad ass is in the house now." And as soon as I heard him say that, I'm thinking like, "I didn't mean it like that." Like he didn't know the context of the conversation, so that's a whole separate irritating thing.
But then I felt embarrassed like, "Well, what was the motivation behind me saying that? Was I saying that because I'm (inaudible at 4:29) talking to those members, laughed or moved across the country?" You know then I don't - and then I start thinking about how, "Did they see it that way? Did they think that I was saying it like I'm trying to be... sound cool or something like that?" When I - that's not... I was just trying to paint a parallel between myself and this girlfriend of ours that we've known forever. I'm saying like, "People do those things when they fall in love. And they just move, and people just do it."
Anyway, he had a glimpse, getting under my skin. And then I just - I can't really let it go. It's obviously because I care about him so much and that what he thinks of me, I... is really important to me. But it's still ridiculous because he had something. (laughter) He just doesn't know... he didn't know what he was talking about. He didn't know what we were talking about.
Anyway, so the - I don't know. Like the - we had a great time Easter. My family social dynamics always makes me a little uncomfortable. (laughter) It's like... my family is like... you know with that many family members, we're together so much and there's so much going on. There's always some new dynamic and somebody is... this couple is breaking up. And they're in... and so the dynamics always make me kind of uncomfortable. And they always kind of stuff like talking loudly and being really excited. And their voice is like this all the time. And everyone else is kind of like... everyone is loud, but no one is super happy. And like... it's like I find myself trying to go overboard with my excited enthusiasm... enthusiasm. Because I know the dynamics just make - I don't... I don't want to say the wrong thing. And I don't want to rub someone the wrong way. And I don't want to say something embarrassing. I don't know. Which is your family, so it's ridiculous that I think about it that much. [6:54]
THERAPIST: What made the time great?
CLIENT: I was really happy to - Chris and I were - my brother's apartment complex is right near where the new apartment is that we're moving into. So Chris and I wanted to - are you talking about the whole weekend or that day... or yesterday? [7:20]
THERAPIST: Well, you're saying that the... the holiday was great, so -
CLIENT: Oh, yesterday, Easter. It was great because my... I got to see my cousin who is pregnant, she is due in June. So I got to see her little baby bump, and that was really cute. And I... my - let's see. My grandparents, they're so sweet, and I made really delicious food. I was really proud of the things I make. They are really delicious. (laughter) And, yeah, we did... somebody found some old pictures and we started looking through all the old... good old pictures. And it was just funny and fun. And it's fun to look back at that and kind of make fun of yourself. And just like, "Oh, my God. Look at what you're wearing." And just... and that was really funny. There was... there was - it was a nice time. I do always leave feeling like, "Oh, they're kind of tense." But it was nice, and it was nicer than I - one of my... my aunt and uncle are, who have been married for 24 years, are going through a divorce. And my uncle - it's my mom's sister who's going through the divorce, so my grandparents don't know. And so the uncle came, and that was always... that's tense. And so that just - and then there's like feeling like I have to give money out, said something, you know.
THERAPIST: What? What? (chuckles) [8:42]
CLIENT: One of my aunts, my mom's... one of my mom's sisters, who's closest to the sister who's getting the divorce, took it upon herself to write a nasty e-mail to my uncle. So to be amicable about how this... him going through the divorce right now is affecting her. She's engaged to be married for the first time at 51. And her daughter who's, the one who's pregnant - and whenever something exciting is happening for them, they're like, "Somebody in the family has to ruin it." Which was an absolutely ludicrous thing to say and I - so she wrote him a really nasty e-mail about how him deciding to divorce my aunt right now is ruining her happiness.
Anyway, it doesn't really - I mean, it's - this woman is... my aunt is... she's just not like a... it's all about her. But she always thinks it's someone (inaudible at 9:47) down here. So anyway, that... that's awkward. And I don't condone her personal... sticking her nose into their business. And second of all, making it about her, but saying - it's like when he comes, it's expected that everyone to give him a hug. And then he goes - it's like, "But don't talk to him." Like, "Give him a hug, say hello, but don't talk to him. He's going to sit with all the boys and watch the golf." And then - but be perfectly - be happy for her. And my aunt, who is going through the divorce, and then my aunt, who wrote the nasty e-mail - but in reality, "I don't think what you did - ", like, "You're like - why, Ahh." I don't know. It's not that I - it's not my place to say anything to her or whatever. But it's like, "Why is he being punished because he fell out of love with our aunt, but you are nasty and (inaudible at 10:45)?" I'm like - I don't know, it's just weird. It's just weird. So there's always those things that are existing. I don't know, they're really weird. [11:00]
THERAPIST: Do you feel like you need to be enthusiastic because other people seem unhappy or -
CLIENT: Yeah, I guess. Yeah, because it's makes me feel... everyone makes me a little bit uncomfortable because some people seem to just kind of like feel like, "Ho-hum." And everybody kind of when you start talking to the members of my family, it eventually goes to ragging on something. I was having a conversation with my aunt. And it went to ragging on people who have too many pairs of black pants? It's like I - she must have talked to somebody who specifically has four black pairs of jeans. And I'm like - and so - but like... and then immediately I was like, "What?" And I was like, "Odd."
And so - and then I was talking to my Aunt Marcie, who had wrote the nasty e-mail, and she's talking about what a pain in the ass her fiancé is because they start fighting. I'm like - they're talking about a house, and now he's second-guessing it. And so I am like, "Oh, that's... that's a thing, buying a house." And so I - yeah, I figured go to this other end of it. That's probably annoying that I do that. They are probably looking for some camaraderie and some - but I'm just not giving it to them. And I'm just - I don't know. [12:27]
THERAPIST: Do you think you're annoying because you... they want someone, they want to co-complain?
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: They want someone who's going to see... join in with their complaining?
CLIENT: Yeah, probably. That's what it seems like. Because that's the dynamic that exists in my family. When somebody starts, it's like, "Oh, yeah, I know." And then, "I know somebody who does this." And then, "I know this," and, "then I know." And then it just... make everyone - but I kind of almost like - I don't know. I always say things like, "Well - " I always say something about myself usually. Like, "I have two pairs of black jeans." Or I say something like that or it's like, I don't know. Like it's - people are silly with (inaudible at 13:13) I'll say something like that - I don't know, like rationalize. I don't know. I guess it's like argue - it's not argumentative, but it's -
THERAPIST: Well, it sounds like you're trying - you need - you feel you need to defend the people they are attacking.
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: Like they're attacking, "Oh, can you believe this woman is just going off to England?" And you're -
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: And I can understand that.
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: Do you feel like you identify with the people they're attacking? [13:38]
CLIENT: I think because I'm so nervous that I could be some... someone they're attacking because when other family members of ours aren't present, that's who gets attacked. And so I feel like what I do is I put myself in a place where I say like, "Well, you could say that about me." And so I just say it to their face. Because they say it like - and so if I just put it all out there up front, I think it's like almost a defense mechanism for me. Because I know that I'm not super (inaudible at 14:09) I know that I'm not free from their critique or their criticism because no one is.
I mean, as soon as one person leaves, it's like... or as soon as someone's not there, it's game on. And so I feel like my... my attempt to put myself in this position as... to overcome being attacked at the time, it's like, this way for me to control what could be said about me when I'm there. Do you know what I mean?
THERAPIST: Uh-huh. [14:46]
CLIENT: And so, yeah, I feel like I put myself in that position. And I try to be kind of like... not self-defecating, but to them - like when we were going through all the pictures, my mom and I were the only ones who had been like, "Oh my God. Look how like... look at our hair, look at our outfits." My mom and I would be the ones that would be saying like... like laughing to each other. And to our... my aunt about like... like - you know could be... you could make fun of yourself and it's not that big of a deal. Everybody goes through silly, weird, silly things.
And I think it's this way of kind of like protecting myself so that... because it's like if I take everything so seriously - my cousins take everything really seriously. And it's just hard to kind of like... it's hard to even talk to them. Because you're... I'm always so nervous I'm going to say something wrong. Or that I'm going to do something that offends them or - I don't know. Or say something that is going to be held against me. I'm always just so worried about what I'm saying. And I just try to put on this act of happy and... because I don't like the other choice.
THERAPIST: Which is? [16:04]
CLIENT: Ho-hum and serious. And - I don't know. It's like sensitive I guess. I'm sensitive... I'm really sensitive, but I don't - I think I wear it which means that's a bad thing too. I don't know. But, yeah, I don't know. Being around that side of the family is definitely not as in the moment hard as my dad's side of the family, but it's definitely still exhausting, definitely still work.
THERAPIST: It sounds really stressful. [17:00]
CLIENT: It is a little bit stressful. But some of us - I was like - it's not - I shouldn't say that. It's just a lot of women. And it's just so (inaudible at 17:13) they don't talk. (pause) It was fun. I feel like I'm making it sound like it was terrible, but - I don't know. Yeah. I just feel like everyone who like takes themselves so seriously in my family, they're the ones who are just... who get the most criticized and gets the most - they're the ones who rat out everyone else the most. And it's like, "Oh, my God. Can we just relax? What is - there's nothing."
The thing that frustrates me the most about my family is there's nothing to be upset... like, "What are we upset about? There's all... we have... we have all of us here. We're all happy, we're all healthy. We don't have anything to complain about. Everybody is functioning and living life how they want to live it." And everybody is in that (inaudible at 18:33) is really exciting life transition. A lot of... like we're getting married, and a lot of us are starting families and buying houses. And some of the aunts are becoming grandparents and my grandparents are becoming are becoming great-grandparents. It's like, "Those are all exciting things. Why are we ragging on each other about those things?"
THERAPIST: Because those people are miserable.
CLIENT: I know, but it's so unfortunate. It's just, oh, it's just stinks. And so I just feel like - I just I find myself defending the cousin who's not there, who's buying another house. It's like I know that by doing that, I'm just opening myself up to being... because if you go against what they're saying then you're just opening yourself up for attack. But it's like, I don't think it's ridiculous that they're buying a house. What's so ridiculous about that? Who cares? It's their choice.
I'm like - I just find myself always kind of like standing up against it, but I wonder if that's going to make me tired after awhile. Maybe not, maybe I'll just worn down and just say... like start to be doom and gloom, and start to be part of the misery pot. Because I definitely... I definitely participate sometimes. I don't want to paint this rosy picture of myself like I'm over there all the time with my halo. Not that I think I wear a halo, (chuckles) but like... but I'm... there's definitely times when I will say things that... just like, "Don't make me sadder, get in on ragging on somebody." But I try for the most part to stay on the opposite end of it. And I just... I want to always try to stay on the opposite end of it. And I just get nervous that staying there for awhile I might get... walk out, and just fall into the - I don't know.
And my aunt, who is getting married, had said something about like, "I thought it would be so neat if - " this is so uncharacteristic for her. "I thought it would be so neat if like... I'm talking to Jodie and she's not," that's her daughter, "Thought it was such a stupid idea. But I thought it would be so neat if all the sisters and me got up during the wedding and did this, a choreographed dance." And it was so shocking coming from this aunt in particular because I was like, "Cool, that's really cool." And she's like, "Yeah, don't you think so?" And I'm like, "Definitely, that's cool." And she's like, "Well, but Jodie won't do it." She said, "Would you do it? Would you be into doing that?" And I was like, "I'd totally be into that." She's like, "You should choreograph it, you should figure it out." And so then I'm in the conversation and I agreed to it. But in reality, I don't want to do that. I don't want to have - I don't want to do that at all.
Because this thing that is - in short, she's the one who wrote the nasty e-mail and just is notorious for criticizing. I've never heard her say a nice thing about anyone in our family. And I feel like if I do this, I don't - I just feel weird now, and I definitely just don't want to. But now, it's like set that I... I told her that I would do it. And I just feel really weird about it.
Even my other aunts just aren't really into that kind of thing. My mom... I got in touch with my mom. And she said, "What is wrong with you? Why did you agree to do that, that's so stupid?" I was like, "I have no (inaudible at 22:25) my mom isn't into it, my aunt is - one of my aunts is into it, but that's it.
THERAPIST: Do you know why you wanted to create it?
CLIENT: Because I wanted to make her happy and I wanted to please. I wanted to... because I'll just say yes. So pretty much anything. It's absolutely a problem. And so -
THERAPIST: That's a problem.
CLIENT: Yes. No, it's an absolutely... it's definitely a problem. So, yeah, I wanted to - she's just the kind of woman also that you know is mean to you behind your back and has said so many mean things about you. But when she's there and you're face-to-face with her and she's being nice to you, you fall into it. And you're like, "Oh, yes." Ahh, I don't know. [23:20]
THERAPIST: It sounds like you work really hard to smooth things over.
CLIENT: Uh-huh.
THERAPIST: I mean, what you're conveying is that they could be really unpleasant people.
CLIENT: Yeah, they can. They just can - I just know particular things that they make digs about. And so I know what areas of my life are up for critique. And so that always makes you uncomfortable. But some of my aunts are really nice and pleasant. (inaudible)
THERAPIST: It seems like you don't want to go there.
CLIENT: Uh-huh. What do you mean?
THERAPIST: You don't want to... you don't want to talk about what it's like to be the butt of the joke.
CLIENT: Well, but I'm not the only one, everyone else is.
THERAPIST: Who cares?
CLIENT: I know. I mean, yeah, it sucks. It's not... it's not - I mean - I don't know.
THERAPIST: It sounds like you have to watch your back every moment, there's a knife in it. [24:40]
CLIENT: Absolutely. I mean, that's why I offer my back up. That's why I'm just saying like, "Here it is." Because I just... I know what... what happen - you know what I mean? Because I don't know that I'm under reproach. Like it's - because it's not, I mean, some of the stuff is in - but most of the stuff that I know. Like my other cousins had even said to me afterwards like, "Yeah, I don't want to say anything about my wedding because how much your wedding got made fun of when you were planning it." So it's like (inaudible at :) at my wedding, no one is going to say to my face whatever I was planning they whatever about it they didn't like which I mean, (chuckles) whatever. But so - because to my face, everyone was enthusiastic and sweet and really like, "Oh, that sounds... what are your colors?" That sounds lovely." And all these things.
So it's just a hard thing to hear somebody to your face say all these things. And then... and then you know as soon as you leave, "Oh, my God, I just said all this stuff." And I know they're going to just rip apart one of these things that I have. At one point... at one point, somebody said - you would figure out that people were talking about you behind your back because another family member would say something that was totally ridiculous. Like, "Oh, yeah, I heard your aunt, on your dad's side, is making your napkins?" And you realize, "My aunt? My Aunt? No, I said, 'the caterer, is providing the napkins.'"
And you realize the only reason you would have gotten that... that is because I talked to this person about the napkins or whatever and you had twisted it in such a way. Because it was like, "Yeah, I heard that your grandma is paying for all - " anyway, it's like you have to immediately after realize whatever you said was just opened to be totally dissected and torn apart.
Which is a hard thing when somebody is to your face and being really sweet and asking you questions and seeming to be engaged. And so I don't know how to really deal with that because we're just having a nice conversation. And so in the moment, I'm just having that nice conversation. And when the conversation ends, the reality of the fact kicks in. And then I think like, "I said this, and I said this, and I said this." And those things are things that often that are going to be twisted or going to be not looked at well. And then, even after that fact when you hear other people coming to you and saying these things, it's like, "Well, now how do I feel about it?"
How do I like - it's now almost a year and a half after I got married, to hear my other cousins say like, "Oh, yeah, your wedding gets made fun of all the time." It's like what do I do with that? I don't know what to do with that. Because as much as I can say I don't care because it was my wedding and I had this fabulous time, which is all very true and I wouldn't trade anything that happened that day, it still hurts my feelings. It still sucks to hear. But because your family can't just be happy for your wedding, like (chuckles) what a ridiculous thing. (pause) I don't know. I just don't know. Unless I just decide to not share personal aspects of my life, which is ridiculous.
THERAPIST: Why is that ridiculous? [28:35]
CLIENT: Because anything else in my life is up for it. I know that that's it... I've heard them make fun of the fact that Chris is going to be a lawyer. It's everything is up for - and it's because it's, this is going to sound maybe conceited or something I don't know, but it's like a jealousy thing. And I know it sounds stupid, but it's on part of my aunt, the one who is kind of... Marcie, the one who is kind of mean. Her daughter lives in her condo with her husband, who's a chef. And they're having their second kid. And they still live off my aunt. And thinks - they're not very established yet.
So I know they're kind of pumped from a jealousy standpoint, but like... it's like with everything. Because as soon as we - if we don't have kid, it's like - I'm... I'm not having a kid, so that gets like, "Yeah, so why aren't - are you - are you pregnant? You're not pregnant? Are you - you're not pregnant?" And then everyone is speculating to me. It's like, "What is it, Chris doesn't want to have it?" It's like all of these things. But I know that it's just being talked about more behind my back. So it's... it's even omitting information gets me in the hot seat. You know what I mean? I don't know. It's a weird dynamic in my family. (pause)
I think it's like they're never going to be more secure, happy people. That's just the reality of that, that's who they are unless they go through some serious self-work and really are trying to change, that's... those are the people they are. And obviously, I need to figure out how to best protect myself from the situation because that's what I feels like that I need... needing to protect myself. [31:03]
THERAPIST: Well, you're - I'm just going to turn up the sound. Your comment about why [just give in] (ph) like that -
CLIENT: Uh-huh.
THERAPIST: - is really interesting.
CLIENT: Yeah, well, I just don't know what else to do. Because that's my way of controlling it. That's my way of... of saying like, "I know that that's something that you probably criticized me for." You know what I mean? She's moving with some guy that she's known for a year. I moved with Chris, after nine months, across the country. So, "Here you go. I'm just going to put it on the plate for you." Like, "I did that." And I'm sure you probably - but I did that because I was totally head over heels in love. And people do those things. And so I just kind of like offered it up. (pause)
I guess it gives me a chance to defend it too. To say, "I know that's probably something that you could or have maybe (ph) done before. And so here's my chance to kind of say (inaudible at 32:18) and just say like, "Yeah, I've been there, and I've done that. And this is why." So it gives me a chance to say... to have like... maybe defend myself. And so - and I have - I feel like I've gained a little bit back? (pause) [32:35]
THERAPIST: I know what my... my instinctual reaction, but I appreciate it's pretty... much more complicated than this. I'm like, "Why do you put yourself through this?"
CLIENT: Yeah, yeah. It's just not - I mean, moving home and doing that. That's part of my hesitation about moving home. I mean, that's... that's all part of it. (pause) I ask myself, "Do [people trust me] (ph)?"
THERAPIST: Well, no wonder you feel so anxious. [33:37]
CLIENT: And that's the same with... it's the same feeling that the other side of my family has, that they have. "I want to be close to you and... and so - and after moving here, then we can (inaudible at 33:46) we can be close. And if we're not close, why aren't close?" And that's going to be held against me too. But I don't want to be close because it's not a positive relationship. It's not something that is fulfilling and it's not something that leaves me feeling good. It makes... it makes me feel really bad and anxious.
And so - and that I'm nervous about the fact that I might be going into a - well, because it's the same thing that my grandmother and all my aunts and uncles on the dad's side say. "We never see you, we don't speak." And so then they get mad because - and it's this whole cycle. And it's going to be the same. I can only say that I wasn't closer to my cousin when I was leaving here and in California because I was living here in California. And I'd only really see them at big family functions. And moving home is not the same, I mean, I'm there.
And so - and there's this rivalry between my two cousins. The one who's pregnant and one is who's engaged. They're both only children. And they... they - the three of us got along really well. And they both - but there's always been a rivalry between the three of us. It's never - we would hang out all the time together, but there would always be a dynamic of two-and-one, always. And it still exists. And I feel - I see your just - over the last few years, I felt more and more like their pawn. And they aren't really close anymore.
But I still try to talk to each of them sporadically, just a quick phone call now and then. And like I said too my one cousin yesterday like, "Oh, my God. If she asks me if I'm pregnant one more time, I'm going to scream." And she said, "What do you mean?" And I said, "You know, every time I talk to her, it's like... she asks me if I'm pregnant." And she's like, "Well, how much are you talking to her?" And I asked - and then it's like, "Oh, not that much. I'm not talking to her that much." And I immediately have to... I feel like I need to play into this game that happened. [35:57]
THERAPIST: Well, it smoothes things over.
CLIENT: Yeah. (pause)
THERAPIST: Well, you're describing your family time threatened, very, you know -
CLIENT: Oh, yeah.
THERAPIST: - like everything is a threat. [36:21]
CLIENT: Oh, absolutely. Everything is a threat, everything is a criticism, everything is - I mean, there's no wonder that (laughter) things that everything - you know what I mean? Everything is a fight and everything could be taken in such a way. And you have to think about every way that you... what your saying could be taken. Or in my case is to just don't say about anything.
And I mean, you wonder why somebody does things, and you wonder why - and it's exhausting. My mom said recently that she, in the last couple of years, could only spend quality of - because I didn't do or say something that I have to think about, really think, rack my brain for the reason that somebody could be mad at me. I'm not going to use the energy. Because if it's not obvious, then it's not... and it's not encroaching on me, then it's not worth my time. But the fact that she even had to say that because that situation exists so much in our family is just crazy to me.
It's like "Oh, you didn't put my daughter on the e-mail chain for Thanksgiving, so we're not going to come to Thanksgiving. Or you didn't - " It's like - and then it's... it's all these silly things. (pause) And it just makes me crazy. These people have nothing to complain about, nothing, basically. [37:59]
THERAPIST: Yeah, I'm not sure I understand that statement.
CLIENT: They just make problems where they don't exist.
THERAPIST: But their problems are inside.
CLIENT: What's that?
THERAPIST: Their problems are inside.
CLIENT: Inside of them?
THERAPIST: Yeah, there are lots of problems. [38:19]
CLIENT: That's true. (pause) I just get frustrated because I don't know why we can't be happy for one another because I'm certainly not asking for them. (pause) I can say over and over like, "Oh my God. I'm really happy for her." Which is like - but it's the - at the end of the day, it's like, "Am I?" What kind of relationship do we have that would make me like so... you know - I don't know. It has to be a little bit reciprocal. And if it's not, I can't - I don't know. It just doesn't exist. (pause) I don't know, it's weird. I don't know what to do with it, like - I don't know. I don't know how to handle that situation.
THERAPIST: (inaudible at 39:43) do with the situation or with your feelings or at home?
CLIENT: Oh, yeah, all of it. I don't know how to - I guess I don't know what I want either. I mean, what I want is to... is for us to support each other. My mom - my dad says you don't speak... I want these things that can't really happen truly really. Because if I'm the only one that's really wanting it, then that's like a - I'm sure I'm not the only one that's wanting it.
But I don't - what do I do, do I move home and spend more time with my cousins and try to build a better relationship, an even more functional relationship? And then in the... in the process open myself up to getting attacked and feeling like I'm getting attacked and being nervous that I'm being talked about behind our backs until we hopefully get to a better place? Or do I just kind of go on living my own life, and still probably get attacked, (inaudible at 41:03) but not really care as much because I'm not invested and I'm not as involved. And I just don't know. And those are the two options that I really see. And I'm not seeing a third option.
THERAPIST: Do you wish there was an option?
CLIENT: Yeah. (pause) I shouldn't say that I - like there's members in my family that I do feel... I feel like I painted a picture that I'm so cold-hearted and I don't care about my family. But obviously, I'm happy for - I don't know. It's hard to realize that these relations - these... my cousins and I have been... when we were younger we spent every weekend doing something with our whole family. My cousins and I were so close.
And it's now hard as an adult realizing that when we were little kids, we were thinking about that we would all get married, and have kids, spend time, and me being... being (inaudible at 42:24) and it's not that. And not only is it not that, it's almost the opposite. Almost like now instead of joying, we're competitive and we're mean to each other. It sucks. It's a terrible relationship. (pause) I don't know. (inaudible at 43:02)
THERAPIST: (inaudible at 43:00)
CLIENT: Not just my dad. See, that's the thing about it, is that it's been so easy my whole life to just say that a lot of these things are because of my dad or because of the - it's not just him. It's a lot of different things. I guess that's why I'm here. (chuckles)
THERAPIST: That's true. You're already getting ready to go? [44:04]
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: We actually... we do need to stop.
CLIENT: Okay.
THERAPIST: So I'll see you Wednesday?
CLIENT: Okay.
THERAPIST: Take care.
CLIENT: Thanks so much.
THERAPIST: Bye-bye.
CLIENT: Bye.
END TRANSCRIPT
