TRANSCRIPT OF AUDIO FILE:
______________________________________________________________________________
BEGIN TRANSCRIPT:
PATIENT: So every two hours he wakes up and cries for more food and wakes my son up and then my son wakes us up and then...
COUNSELOR: Uh-huh.
PATIENT: Do you have a Kleenex, by any chance, I could clear up - my glasses are dirty.
COUNSELOR: Yeah, I was just looking for them this morning. Obviously somebody finished them and they don't have any in the main  -
PATIENT: Uh-huh.
COUNSELOR: So I can't really accommodate. Sorry.
PATIENT: Okay. Things will become clearer as we go along, I guess.
COUNSELOR: It's a good metaphor.
PATIENT: Keep this under my hat for another minute. So I'll probably go to sleep. I only got three hours of sleep. So let's see. I noticed that the floor is finished in the room.
COUNSELOR: They're getting there. We're getting there. Should have been actually done last Friday.
PATIENT: Well, it will be.
COUNSELOR: Yeah  -
PATIENT: Next Friday.
COUNSELOR: Next Friday it looks like it's going to be done by itself.
PATIENT: Oh, I was supposed to be keeping track of how my self-esteem or problems or self-criticism impeded communication? I think that's kind of in a nutshell what it was. And I think just to focus on that began to sort of give me a kind of a signal, or I became aware of certain things that I've wanted to communicate I haven't been doing, just because of these problems and sort of things that I've procrastinated about and just seem not really important or can be put off. In fact, because I tend to do this, to negate things that have importance to me, everything seems to be, in a sense, of a status that can be put off. I put off everything, because nothing is really important, because everything is - [2:24]
COUNSELOR: Somehow you discount the importance of the element.
PATIENT: Yeah, I discount the importance of like - it will just be one of those many things that I - so there's no urgency. There often is no urgency, other than some urgency that's imposed from an external source or like an external deadline or something that is very important to me, and I respond to the needs to that external deadline but yet it's my own deadline, some sort of career deadline, a personality deadline or whatever, that - I discount it, I should say, to use that word.
But what happened last Thursday is that one of the projects that I'm working on, I decided to - because I was - saw the real truth in what you said, of how I am preventing on myself from communicating in a lot of ways, I decided to do a professional thing that really gave me a lot of momentum to continue. What I did was content. I'm working on a book project for my portfolios, books of my - proposed books of my paintings and so forth, but it would also be a portfolio that could be used for getting a job if - so it's both of those things. [3:48]
But in any case, I decided to - one of these projects are painting of forts, U. S. forts on the West Coast. And I made these paintings, I have lots of paintings and I've made some drawings. And in some cases - I don't really have an overview of what this whole project is about, and what these forts really represent or whatever, you know. I took a couple of brochures from a couple of the forts in California and just skimmed through them, you know, didn't really read them. It's really the aesthetic quality that interested me the most.
But I realized that since my friend, who is the art director of - worked in publishing and an incredibly wealthy guy. Saw some of this project last month and he said he would like to see it when he came back to the United States in March.
But truly and really, I should get this together professionally, the way I would get together any job professionally.
COUNSELOR: Right, right, right.
PATIENT: So on Thursday I just started calling everybody I could think of in California who might have some information on all of these forts. First of all, I thought I would just call a tourist bureau in California, have them send me some brochures, and I finally got through to them after about five different numbers.
But to make a long story short, I probably spent about an hour on the phone and finally wound up speaking to about three people who were extremely filled - of use - helpful, and had a lot of information and were willing to talk to me and sent me material, and in fact one of them is an employee for the National Park Service there, who I didn't actually speak to but now I have a basis for really in fact for really describing what this whole project is about. I mean even if somebody wants to see it tomorrow, I could show this to them and have a reasonable professional and good presentation rather than a lot of something that's unfinished.
And as we were talking about this unfinished - the fact of my not finishing projects often is sort of central to my not making progress. I go off into some other type of tangent that's a little more fun for me and leave the other portion of the - sort of the work that's - let's say groundwork? Something like that. What is that work? [6:42]
COUNSELOR: Yes, groundwork.
PATIENT: Undone. And I had made - and by the same token, I had done eight paintings for the project before, and it was not an easy thing finding time to get the room all set up and after putting my son to sleep and so forth. But I really made an effort and have been drawing this week so I finally have like five more drawings or four more drawings and some of the drawings from The Puget Sound area as well. And we're - so I really feel good about that.
COUNSELOR: Right.
PATIENT: Even though there were some surprises and things broke down with my enlarger and my developer and stuff. But you know, I really feel that I approached it in the way that it had to be approached, to get as much done in as short a period of time as possible.
COUNSELOR: As opposed to what  -
PATIENT: As opposed to - oh, just saying, oh, well, I probably have enough here and then I'll do some layouts on the computer, get it all printed up. And I'd have a project that was only that wasn't as good as it could be, that didn't have the diversity of art that would really describe what everything was about. And I think that now I have something that's in-depth in terms of information and in-depth in terms of the visual aspect of paintings, which is really what it's all about. [8:13]
And there's something else as well. Because it's a real imposition upon the family for me to paint, because when I paint I do it - I devote an awful lot of time to it, it takes a long time, and it might take an entire evening to make one painting or one series or one - certain versions of one print, to get a really perfect painting.
So it required some discussion with Kathy about this, about what I'm doing and so forth, and there was a lot of their pulling on her part and her in a constant fear that what I'm doing is basically just a hobby. You know, it's not really anything that is really useful in terms of getting work, in terms of progress career-wise. It's just something that, as she puts it, people do when they retire.
And I feel that I was really able to speak to her clearly how I felt that this would be a useful element in my job search as well as an artistic pursuit of mine. I'm trying to do both things at the same time because I think it can do double duty, and she accepted that. Because what she feels more often than not is that I'm trying to - I am doing what I do to injure her, to spite her, to be malicious; that I do art to be malicious basically. [10:27]
COUNSELOR: A vendetta against her?
PATIENT: A vendetta against her. And I constantly have to convince her that my art and what I do is not all directed against her and hurting her. So I felt that was effective. And even though it put a burden on her because bedtime is 11:30 or so and I'm still walking around, painting and stuff until 1:00 or whatever, you know, I think she was able to accept it. I know that she was, she was able to accept it. And while in the past or if I hadn't felt that this was something that I was going to depend upon my - the emotional and a rational and sort of motivation and imperatives that I had that I would - if I had reacted as sort of as I tend to react, sort of withdraw and just not present it with the degree of  -
COUNSELOR: Faith.
PATIENT: Faith, I guess, yeah. So I thought I felt  -
COUNSELOR: So that was the real example of being assertive and - [11:56]
PATIENT: Being assertive and really believing in what I was doing. I think that's so useful. And if I could - and I really think that's the difference between success and not success; just staying with it, staying with it emotionally not just staying with it. And I really see how I've not stayed with things emotionally as you suggested.
COUNSELOR: Yeah.
PATIENT: So I think this is a useful insight but  -
COUNSELOR: Yeah, even in the context of just communicating things to people, not just in the context of finishing a project that obviously does implications for that.
PATIENT: Yeah. This is a concrete example so it's maybe easier to talk about it because of that.
COUNSELOR: Right.
PATIENT: And as I said before talking about this project being shown to our friend who is the art director at the University, I had a conversation with my friend John Baselton who I had mentioned before who is this person who I kind of talk about psychological or emotional things with. And we talked about Kirk Jacobs and why Kirk, who is our friend who is the head of University Publishing, who we've both known for years - and I talked about our conversations and so forth. And we're trying to analyze how Kirk, who is extremely creative and a great designer and so forth, was able to really get to the point of being fabulously wealthy when nobody else did, and how did he do it.
And I think that John was able to see that what we were talking about, the importance of relying on self-esteem and directing a career and a life towards things that promote self-esteem is - really has a lot to do with it; saying that if a person is in a job, well, this is not the right job for me, it doesn't feel right, it's not good for me and so forth, rather than just saying, well, I'm going to stay with it or stick it out or whatever and I'm going to... [14:31]
COUNSELOR: Yeah.
PATIENT: I think sticking it out is sort of  -
COUNSELOR: Like self-respect really.
PATIENT: Um-hmm.
COUNSELOR: Respecting your feelings about something.
PATIENT: Um-hmm. So I really think that this is a really good and useful insight that I've never really had about myself before and I really am pleased with it. And I'd like to stay with something like that. I don't know how one stays with something like that, how one internalizes it and so forth.
And another thing that - in the conversation with Kathy was about she feels very uncertain and I guess nervous about what's happening here. She calls you "that guy," as a matter of fact, so what is this guy doing. And is afraid I think that a lot of it is centering around marriage problems as with the other therapist was seeing before, but it's a different ballgame here. It's really likely - assured her that it really is dealing with my problems with self-esteem issues.
COUNSELOR: Well, I imagine I mean she certainly has a control not 'til - not knowing what's going on in here. [16:01]
PATIENT: Yeah.
COUNSELOR: Probably uncomfortable.
PATIENT: Um-hmm.
COUNSELOR: What do you imagine will happen, though, in terms of your relationship with her as you become, you know, a person - more respectful of yourself and then more assertive? What do you imagine is going to happen?
PATIENT: Well, I don't know. I suppose something good could happen. I suppose the relationship could improve. I mean that's a possibility I think. But on the other hand I don't feel as if our relationship has a lot going for it right now, or it could end at the same time. I mean there's a possibility for both things.
COUNSELOR: Yeah. I guess she could - the scenario that comes to my mind is that she could respond well to you being more assertive and maybe hear you better and maybe, you know - and if she sees you as an adolescent maybe that will make inroads in terms of that view, then maybe, maybe not, you know. Maybe she'll bristle at the idea of you becoming stronger and be threatened by that. So maybe there are more possibilities as well. But that probably was a good sign that she responded well to your being assertive, and that's sort of an indication that being assertive can also be a positive thing for the other person because they can hear you better. [17:44]
PATIENT: Um-hmm. And I think I was able to get what I needed, get what I wanted, as opposed to - like something this morning. I wanted to get a sweater, but I couldn't get a sweater from my closet because my closet is a little corridor between the closet and my son's room and it's filled with stuff from my son's room that has not been put back yet by Kathy and so I had to ask her if she had any sweaters in her closet that I could borrow. And that led to a situation where she was sort of critical of me and so forth because I didn't have a sweater. She didn't really say that, but it lead to a situation in which she said, change your shoes, put on your rubbers or whatever, you know, because you're not wearing them with the right shoes. No big deal really, but in the example of how I guess - and I wanted to say to her at that time but I didn't, you know, the reason I can't get my sweater is because you haven't cleaned up or put all of that stuff back in Matt's room yet. You know, I didn't think that it was - you know, maybe my question - what I'm saying is, how do I state something like that? How does one state something like that? The reason I didn't have a sweater is because I wasn't able - not really physically able to physically easily get into my closet, and the reason I'm not able to do that is because she hasn't put the stuff back in yet. I mean  -
COUNSELOR: Well, imagine you're talking to Kathy and say, well - it would be helpful to close your eyes - say exactly that as if Kathy were here.
PATIENT: Uh-huh. I guess I could say Kathy, I wanted to get my sweater but there's still like too much stuff in that corridor in the closet and so I can't find it or I can't get in there and I was wondering if you have one of my sweaters in one of your baskets.
COUNSELOR: What's your reaction to that? How do you feel about that? [19:59]
PATIENT: It sounds like what I would usually say - I don't know, I don't know. It doesn't really sound exactly - I don't know. It's kind of tepid I guess or something isn't it?
COUNSELOR: So it doesn't feel right to you.
PATIENT: No. it doesn't feel like I gained or benefited anything from my insights in that statement. I don't know. I don't know what would be a better way of saying it.
COUNSELOR: Well, what's wrong with it do you think? You said tepid; what do you mean?
PATIENT: Maybe there shouldn't be that explanation why I don't have the sweater. I mean maybe there shouldn't - maybe that's a case in which there shouldn't be an explanation. Maybe if she wants to know why I don't have a sweater she can ask me. Kathy, I need a sweater today. Do you have one in your closet? That seems to have a better tone to it and then put the ball in her court and then she'll find out why.
COUNSELOR: So it's something about making excuses.
PATIENT: Yeah, it's an excuse. The whole thing is an excuse, and it sort of negates me by being an excuse. Do you think so? I mean is that  -
COUNSELOR: Yeah, that sounds reasonable.
PATIENT: Uh-huh.
COUNSELOR: So that's it, fruit of the tree, tied like a knot. I don't really feel that there's -
PATIENT: You know, I'm so pleased that - I've had this to look at this week and I feel happy about that.
COUNSELOR: Yeah, I was a little concerned at the end of the session because, you know, I thought it was important what we went through. And my concern was that having this insight and seeing, you know, how you had difficulty starting with me, about something we were doing, I was afraid that you were becoming a little self-critical about the inside; like, oh, look at me, I can't even assert in here, and that was my concern. [22:20]
PATIENT: No, I - well, I said that but I don't' - I think last week I felt particularly vulnerable, you know, just hopeless, whatever, when you asked me to explain how I felt about myself, all those negative things I felt about myself, I couldn't do it. I think there were just too many things that I felt and I couldn't block and they were all blocked out and it was just too much to confront, and it was an awful lot to confront, and I can see why I couldn't do it. I was thinking about that.
I mean there are a lot of negative things that I can say about myself at any time, but none of them came to mind then because I wasn't really even functioning. It was one of those situations in which I couldn't speak. I was so depressed I guess or so anxious or what or whatever. And you know, I'm really, really just concerned about that, sort of these year after year of self-criticism, anxiety, negative self-image, self-esteem and so forth. It really - the total effect is - fills a sort of reality, doesn't it? I mean if there was a psychological reality is this the smallest whole - all of this whatever, baggage I guess or whatever.
COUNSELOR: You mean it becomes self-fulfilling? [23:58]
PATIENT: It becomes self-fulfilling after a while. How does one - well, I guess you have to approach one thing at a time, take baby steps as they say and  -
COUNSELOR: Yeah.
PATIENT: Did you see that movie, "What About Bob"?
COUNSELOR: Yeah.
PATIENT: That's a terrific movie; I love that. So taking baby steps, yeah, start one thing at a time. But still, I'm still left with this big burden of all this stuff, all this  -
COUNSELOR: You need to - not know what to do.
PATIENT: Just overwhelmed by it. And I think that was another reason that I couldn't say all of this negative stuff, because it really is so overwhelming. I mean even though I do have all of this ability, expertise, creativity and talent and so forth, the job of getting a job as a freelancer means that you constantly have to get a job, and I don't think I can stand it anymore. I mean unless there's some sort of magical breakthrough, which is - which I always hope for but which has never really materialized. It seems like just for survival there's - you know, there have to, down the road, be some really serious consideration and real serious effort of getting a job, and if that's the case, given the fact that I've been working on these sort of unique projects on my own for nearly 20 years, how does one make that leap from a world that's sort of unique to the world that everybody else functions in? It's more of a psychological change and it's understood to be a big chance by me certainly or by any perspective employer. Any employer would realize that it's - knows that that's a really different to make that jump. It can be a difficult jump. [26:24]
There was just an article in the paper on Sunday, about people who are entrepreneurs going back into corporations because the economic situation makes it impossible for any one person often to survive on their own, so much has to be done and so forth, and that's a really big issue.
I was looking at some books at McGraw-Hill bookstore about that yesterday afternoon. And looking at these books, information self-help books and so forth can be a big time waster or can be helpful. You just get into one of these things, read it for a week or couple of days or whatever, and it can be useful, you can get some insights, but can just be barking up the wrong tree also. I don't have a lot of time for barking up the wrong tree. That's how I felt about making these photographs. I really want to get this over. I want to get moving and just not procrastinate anymore, not  -
COUNSELOR: That's good. I think you know - I can tell just from the way you're talking it's sort of like looking for like strategies and sort of some kind of - I don't know if it's path but something like a pathway to proceed and not certainly what self help books propose or to present. And I think it's more important for you to sort of look to yourself and work on yourself and I think that the answers will emerge after you progress with your own issues. I think that's more important. [28:14]
PATIENT: Um-hmm. Yeah, I guess so. I mean sort of obviously you can see it from the outside and you can see how it looks from the outside and  -
COUNSELOR: Even if you look at the past week and how you handled this particular project I mean that emerged from in you inside and just to work, just to push through, and not to procrastinate and, try to say, that emerged.
PATIENT: I think so.
COUNSELOR: Within you really.
PATIENT: It did. And also I did another thing that it was extremely difficult for me to do in the process of making these charcoals, because I have two sets of drawings, the drawings from California and the negatives from Puget Sound. I was so tempted to start making some paintings from the drawings of Puget Sound, just to see what the paintings would look like, and not, you know, say, well; let's do one or two drawings. In fact, I did one drawing just to see if the quality was good enough to even proceed with it in the future.
COUNSELOR: Right, right.
PATIENT: And it was. But almost always, I sit down and look at another project and say, oh, I'll just do a little bit on this other project and let it get away from me and then I have lots and lots of unfinished projects, so I didn't do that. I made a conscious effort not to do that. [29:51]
COUNSELOR: That's good, yeah. Yeah, I think it's important that you look to yourself for the answers more and more. I get a tendency sometimes you'll ask me, and I think looking for self-help books is a way and the same type of thing.
PATIENT: Well, talking to somebody or looking at self-help books sort of triggers thoughts that might not occur also so I think that that's useful. And if I weren't here I wouldn't be happy inside. So that's  -
COUNSELOR: Right, right. I guess I'm talking more about what do you think or do you think that's a good idea, which strikes me as sort of looking for some like confirmation that you're doing the right thing, what you should be doing. We talk about we don't do that too much, talk about what would be the right thing for you to do.
PATIENT: Yeah. Well, when I was talking about Kirk Jacobs and his success being based upon his following his emotional needs, he was famous for going for therapy for years and years among all the people who knew him and he would get a really crummy apartment so he could pay for the therapy, it's a serious thing.
COUNSELOR: His priorities.
PATIENT: And that was something that, for him, seems to have worked out. I was thinking that it - wouldn't you said, using the emotions as a way to guide yourself, I really see it as a kind of a maze in which the negative emotions sort of form the walls of the maze and prevent you from going in a certain direction because you feel that it's not helpful to you to go in that direction so you go in another direction. [32:00]
And I've always I think taken too many things into account, taken too much sort of analyzing other things into account. John is the - my friend John always used as a sounding board to talk about any marital - about Kathy, the marital problems and so forth. And he said that he was always so frustrated with me when I would talk about whatever outrageous things were happening and then I would say on the other hand Kathy does have a point.
COUNSELOR: You know, I've heard that one.
PATIENT: Yes, yes, and that's - I've said it so many times here also, and that's - and when I say that, as you've said in the past, I'm negating my own validity of my own emotions, whether it - as you also said, whether it's informed or uninformed or whatever.
COUNSELOR: You know, it is essential; it's not a matter of being right or wrong, it's just having a right, a different type of right, to say things.
PATIENT: Yeah, right, that's right. So I feel really good about that and I'm just wondering where do we go next? What's the next - I think it's kind of a step or a plateau or something, it's an important spot, and I really feel that I can kind of incorporate that. I hope to incorporate it in my thinking.
COUNSELOR: I think it's going to be also an ongoing - I don't think it's, you know, something that's, you know, (clicking fingers) okay. So it will be - at this point it seems like that's a major scene and that's something that we should just keep working towards and working on. So there's no answer in terms of where do we go? In other words, it's sort of skirting that one. [34:00]
PATIENT: And sort of kind of facing to it or whatever. It's what it's all about I suppose.
COUNSELOR: But we'll both stay here.
PATIENT: Okay. How much more time do I have? I feel like I'm ready to go.
COUNSELOR: Really?
PATIENT: Actually, I really do. I really don't feel like there's - I don't feel that there's anything - I feel that that's so basic to the entire situation.
COUNSELOR: Right, right, uh-huh.
PATIENT: That if I could really have that under control that I would be able to do what I want to do, that that's the one thing that's been preventing me from doing what I want to do, preventing me from making charcoal drawings at night or - because it's rough, it's really rough, to go into the drawing room and start charcoaling in that dark room. As a matter of fact, the night before last I painted the wrong picture. I spent two hours painting a picture that I felt was the picture I wanted to paint and didn't even realize it was the wrong drawing until the next morning. I usually mark them and make a selection on the contact sheet of the ones but - so there are problems doing that. But it's sticking with this and continuing it that really is the important thing and I really feel I can see that as a guiding path for me. See if there's something else I was going to say also about something like that. I don't remember but - [36:00]
COUNSELOR: (Laughing)
PATIENT: Words fail me.
COUNSELOR: So you're just sort of blank on that one.
PATIENT: Yeah, because this is what I've been thinking about all week and this is what I've been sort of trying to work with and haven't really - I've really benefited from it and I just - just looking forward to something new, I guess. But I guess there's something - something new is something like - you know, sort of rehashing the conversation about the scarf, that's the something new. Each new situation sort of requires that to be incorporated in it so...
COUNSELOR: How do you feel about when I said it's like no natural like stuff or I don't get the point and you say, okay now do this?
PATIENT: Well, I'm sort of - in the back of my mind I guess that's what I was searching for, sort of a next step that I could see in myself that would be something to deal with, something that would be - when you say to look within yourself or for me to look within myself, that's the next step will become apparent like that because it will be the next step that I need or that's what I need to do.
COUNSELOR: You see it at this point is that there's no -
PATIENT: No, because you're - no, because there is a next step I think, and it will become apparent to me because these steps are apparent, I mean sort of a unique basis I guess for each individual who's dealing with problems such as this. So somebody else might have another next step or have other needs that they would have to address on their own in their own way. So I'm sort of interpreting what you say to mean that you don't have another next step before me, but I have another next step for myself someplace inside me or maybe widening this to making it a landing rather than on a staircase. So I mean... [38:30]
COUNSELOR: So you're not disappointed or  -
PATIENT: I guess maybe initially I was to some degree. Maybe not, you know. I'm just sort of accepting it and just sort of thinking about it in the back of my mind as we're talking.
COUNSELOR: Yeah, I'm not trying to impose a feeling on you, I'm just wondering if you're like being protective of me like you would with Kathy.
PATIENT: No, no, no, I'm not. I'm just trying to see in all of its depth what that really means, I guess so I can really accept that, because I know there has to be a next step somehow from - all right, and the next step will be apparent when it's time when something happens or that needs to be done.
I mean there's a whole bunch of things that need to be done, things that - I guess Kathy has been trying to impose upon me for something, things like organization and efficiency, things that I've negated or thought were unimportant and things that to her are just primary and it's - I can see foolmanship of me to have negated these things. Put foolish. [40:01]
It has to become part of the picture too, if I'm really going to do all of the things that I need to do. I'm going to have to use all the ammunition I can get and efficiency and so forth is kind of part of that ammunition; it's not an end of it itself in itself, as I think sometimes it might be with Kathy, because she always says that she's being so efficient so she can have so much more time for herself, but she winds up being efficient and not having any more time for herself so that - so I think that that sort of - I guess the one thing, talking about all of this wall that I built around myself last week and not being able to come up with the negative things about myself is just the fact that it's almost overwhelming; how I can see I've consciously not let myself be - learn things, specific things and emotional things in my past through years and years about getting things done, doing things, like this situation - I'm trying to put that in perspective too, I think, these paintings that I'm making, the series of drawings that I'm making now, are something that I was fully capable of doing let's say 15 years ago when I took my first courses in painting. [41:56]
I mean it sounds like I've done it all my life because my father was a artist, a very advanced amateur, and semi-professional. So I've always loved being in the drawing room and making images and so forth. But because of that I had been really arrogant about thinking I knew everything about it and I didn't realize how much I didn't know until, oh, something like the mid '70s I guess, you know, when I took a course in painting from the best artist I think in the world, and boy did I learn a lot. I mean did I learn a tremendous amount.
And the increased quality in my work was just astounding at that point. It just went from being just another sort of person who uses a paintbrush and has a good eye to being really astounding work. And the next step was really to produce a body of work but I've never really done that, and I've always bemoaned the fact that I don't have a body of work. But I've done that for a reason. I've sort of done this hot air balloon project which was a body of work in color that was - but I spent too much time on that without branching out into other things as well.
And the project that I'm working on now, couple of projects, you know, these forts and Puget Sound and so forth, these are all things that I could have done years ago, 15 years ago.
COUNSELOR: So what about your self-critical side? (Inaudible at 43:56)
PATIENT: I'm feeling fairly overwhelmed with the fact that I was so darned obstinate at that time, feeling that I knew everything, that I - [44:04]
COUNSELOR: So you think that was an over-compensation. You've actually not done so good about yourself and you've been sort of arrogant about the possibility of  -
PATIENT: Yeah, yeah, yeah, without learning professional things that would be useful to me.
Yeah. And I'm not really quite sure how I can judge that, you know, how I can see whether I'm being obstinate or when I'm really being confident. What I think I'm doing now is - actually I wanted to bring these things to show you today, the sort of things that I'm working on.
COUNSELOR: I'd love you to.
PATIENT: I'm working on - I just picked up the book design I had done for one of the book packagers last year, because I wanted to make color copies of it myself but I really felt happy when I picked it up and this secretary said to me, oh, these are very beautiful drawings. You know, I really - I haven't seen it in a year; I forgot what it looked like. So that basically that was just a nice pat on the back I thought I'd tell you about that too. But it was - but my background in design, my background is basically in the fine arts and the illustration background from art school, basically fine arts, sort of painting, abstract expressionist painting, and then I worked at Macy's, which was sort of a bottom of the barrel sort of design place really. Using that as a reference is not going to get anybody very far really.
So one of the reasons that I've gotten into all of these projects over the years is to get myself more credentials. But I haven't actually - they've all been self-initiated projects that don't necessarily ever see the light of day. [46:06]
COUNSELOR: They haven't been realized really.
PATIENT: They haven't been realized. I mean some of them lately I've been - sort of I've been working in conjunction with book packagers. You know, they've seen the quality of the stuff that I'm doing, but I just - but I've been trying to work in a vacuum without really being willing to put myself in comparison with the very best people who are out there doing the very best work. I mean I feel that right now the quality of what I'm doing is really good, I mean excellent. Kirk Jacobs said when he started these things that all of the things that I had in my portfolio were better than the things - projects that were brought to his company for him to script and him to see.
COUNSELOR: That's great.
PATIENT: So I feel at this date, which I feel is a late date, you know - it's too late. It should have been something that I should have done years ago.
COUNSELOR: Well, you're self-critical.
PATIENT: But at the same time I realize that I made a conscious decision not to work in the drawing room when Matt was born. Like nine or ten years ago I didn't work in the drawing room because  -
COUNSELOR: Two things sort of occurred to me, were coming out. I think there's an important difference between being confident and being arrogant, or obstinate I guess. And there's a difference between - I'm making these distinctions - you can put it in any other words you want to - critical and analytical. And I'm trying to figure out why you did something versus being critical of it, and I think that's an important distinction that you need to become more aware of. You understand why I'm doing that?
PATIENT: Yes, uh-huh. [47:56]
COUNSELOR: So it's a thought; end on those.
PATIENT: Uh-huh, okay.
COUNSELOR: I mean you struggle to sort of become more aware of  -
PATIENT: Uh-huh. Yeah, well  -
COUNSELOR: [Useful prophecy notes] (ph), what went on for you and what's sort of self-critical.
PATIENT: It is overwhelming though when I think of all of the things that I've done to sort of set myself off to not put myself in a spot to be criticized or to be judged in the world other than on completely my own terms. Everything that I do is so much on my own terms so it - is it always or rejected on my criteria. So what I have might be great or not. I mean Kathy's objections to what I do are the fact is really that it's great but nobody cares about it.
COUNSELOR: Right, financially.
PATIENT: I doesn't have a - and it doesn't seem like it could have a - she believes it has a possibility of having a financial  -
COUNSELOR: Reward.
PATIENT: Yeah, reward. And I realize, you know, something like War forts on the East Coast is not something that most people would immediately think that they were interested in, but I think it can be presented in such a way that people will be - some people will be interested in and that since that Kirk Jacobs is interested in press bindage, we're two or three weeks of getting it all together and that and a really impressive presentation is - I think that's worthwhile. [50:05]
But in fact this totality of everything, almost everything that I do, is towards this fine arts sort of esoteric or specialized viewpoint of things, which can be really terrific if I can find my way into someplace where there's the value that approach.
COUNSELOR: That takes a lot of faith.
PATIENT: That takes a lot of faith, a lot of faith, and a lot of faith in the face of tremendous  -
COUNSELOR: - lack of faith (chuckling).
PATIENT: - tremendous financial problems.
COUNSELOR: Financial - yeah.
PATIENT: Yeah. But I think that I've gotten this far on faith really, to some degree. If I didn't have faith I would have just stopped or given up a long time ago. But now, you know, I don't know what  -
COUNSELOR: But there's productive channeling of that faith and seems like - think with you sort of felt that you'd been diluting yourself in a way and I think by distracting yourself with different projects it hasn't been a productive use of that faith; it sort of does become more hobby-like than the occasional  -
PATIENT: Yes, absolutely. I think that may be so. That's right. Maybe Kathy is right in not - in saying that it's hobby-like and that I go from one thing to another, kind of like a dilatants without really  -
COUNSELOR: Yeah, there may be some truth in her observations in terms of how you're - I mean she's also thinking that all of these projects are intrinsically hobbies.
PATIENT: Uh-huh.
COUNSELOR: But I think where there is truth may be in terms of how you are approaching them and not so much the project. [52:01]
PATIENT: Absolutely. That's a really good point. I'm really approaching them in the dabbling end rather than approaching them professionally. As I said last week, if when I'm given a project I do research on it, I think about it, I look at other things that are being done, and then I proceed with it. That's why I started calling all those people in California last week, to proceed with it on a professional basis rather than on a hobby-like basis. And you know, if I go onto this Puget Sound thing, I talked to some people, city official - a friend of Kathy's and her family who used to be a city official in the Puget suburb and asked him if he knew anybody who was an expert on the architecture of Puget Sound area and he said he did and know something who would - you know, real experts. So you know, sort of that's the next step in the next project, to get in contact with him to show some of my work, whether I can put together something based on that and to really make these things into  -
COUNSELOR: Profession.
PATIENT: Professional, rather than just, you know, dreaming about it somehow or dreaming - wishing that I did it and saying that oh, golly, I didn't set up the paints again today because - I don't know why, whatever.
COUNSELOR: Okay.
PATIENT: There's progress I think.
COUNSELOR: So it sort of assignment to focus on self-critical some, because I think it's pretty insidious in there. You've just begun to become aware of that.
PATIENT: Well, I've always known that I was self-critical. Is this working? I've always - [53:57]
COUNSELOR: There's this awareness of - yeah. I mean there's knowing you're self-critical. Then there's knowing the reaches of it and how insidious it really is and how it's really infiltrated all different ways of being and I think that's a different type of awareness. One is more like global awareness; the other is a more subtle awareness, an in-the-moment awareness, which we talked about Session 1.
PATIENT: Yeah, right.
(Knocking on door)
COUNSELOR: I struggled giving you a -
PATIENT: Oh, is somebody else coming in?
COUNSELOR: No, no. Where I struggled giving you an example, because I felt like that's something you'll understand, as you develop that awareness, or the awareness to try to describe.
PATIENT: Uh-huh. I mean to me it's just a hallmark of people who are - I mean to me I think it's a hallmark of people who are successful. I mean they really can focus on what they want. I mean I see all of these people who have become financially successful because they've worked at that goal and they've gotten there. My goal has been some sort of aesthetic goal that I kind of achieved without really integrating it with the - my needs. I mean I can't really proceed with my aesthetic goals if I don't have money to buy the chemicals or  -
COUNSELOR: True, true.
PATIENT: - for making pictures. And I didn't take that into account because of self-crit - because of the fact that I didn't want to be in confrontation with the world. I didn't want to - I wanted to avoid dealing with issues and with people and with myself, and you know it's kind of late in the game to have to do it.
COUNSELOR: Well, it ain't over 'til it's over. [56:01]
PATIENT: It's not over 'til it's over, exactly.
COUNSELOR: You know? I mean the flip side is you could be 80 years old and not have done anything and now you've got about 40 years or so.
PATIENT: Yes, exactly, and in fact that I have done some things.
COUNSELOR: Yeah, that's the other side of it as well, that's true.
PATIENT: It's not having done things; it's just the matter of building some sort of coherence to it.
COUNSELOR: Right, right.
PATIENT: I think. Some sort of structure to it, some sort of focus to it.
COUNSELOR: Right, right.
PATIENT: Okay.
COUNSELOR: Okay, Don.
END TRANSCRIPT
