TRANSCRIPT OF AUDIO FILE:
______________________________________________________________________________
BEGIN TRANSCRIPT:
THERAPIST: Hi Laura.
CLIENT: Hi, how are you?
THERAPIST: Good, how are you?
CLIENT: Good.
THERAPIST: Long time no see.
CLIENT: I know. How's your Thanksgiving?
THERAPIST: It was good, went well. Smooth, without a hitch.
CLIENT: Good.
THERAPIST: How was yours?
CLIENT: Also good.
THERAPIST: Yeah?
CLIENT: We normally spend it with my mom's brother, my uncle, my mom's mother, my aunt and my cousin. But they didn't come this year. We don't really know why. Although my cousin went to rehab like two years ago so we think it's because we drink and they don't, really. But, anyway, my uncle is really volatile and he starts fights with someone...
THERAPIST: (inaudible at 0:00:30)
CLIENT: ...randomly every holiday.
THERAPIST: Kind of good that he wasn't there.
CLIENT: So it was good.
THERAPIST: Is this your mother's brother...
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: ...or your father's brother?
CLIENT: It's crazy.
THERAPIST: (laugh)
CLIENT: So, yeah, it was good.
THERAPIST: Small, then?
CLIENT: Yeah, it was just us and Fernão came, because, you know, whatever. (ph) And they came, actually - my cousin and my aunt came for coffee.
THERAPIST: Does your family like him? Or does he like them?
CLIENT: They met him. They love him. They really like him. They do.
THERAPIST: And he was comfortable there?
CLIENT: Yeah, he really likes them. But, yeah, so, I tried - well, I didn't try my best, I must tell you. I tried to do the "catch myself judging people." It was really difficult, because I think it's so unconscious. Like I just - I don't even realize when I do it. But, actually, I don't think - I don't know if I do it as much as I think I do. I don't think "I don't think I really like this idiot, why's she wearing that?" You know? So, I mean, once in a while -
THERAPIST: That might be a good observation to have, is that you also are telling yourself that you do it all the time and that's one of the things that you're beating yourself up about.
CLIENT: Yeah. (Laughs) But yeah, so, I don't know. I mean - I don't think, yeah, I don't think I do it as much as I thought. So that's kind of a good thing.
THERAPIST: Yeah, that is a good thing. And that's an unexpected outcome of this assignment. Is that maybe you had trouble doing it because it's hard to notice when we're doing things like that.
CLIENT: It is. It is.
THERAPIST: But also maybe that you're really not doing it as much, and you're probably doing it more to people that you know rather than people on the street.
CLIENT: I think so. I think that's true. It's probably more with people I know.
THERAPIST: You're catching it at like the holidays with your sister, or -
CLIENT: Yeah, I mean, I don't know if this is necessarily the same thing, and I feel really bad saying this because I wish it wasn't true, but it is. But, like I'll walk and see "Oh, she's skinny?" Be like, "Is she skinnier?" Like, you know, I hate that I do that because I'm not jealous of my sister and if she's happy and she looks it and whatever, and I don't, like, I'm still - I'm not envious. Like, I don't wish that she was fat and I was - you know? But like, it's still like I'm looking, looking. I'll notice that -
THERAPIST: It's comparing.
CLIENT: Yeah, it's comparing.
THERAPIST: And that's common for someone who has body issues.
CLIENT: Yeah, I mean -
THERAPIST: I think most people do it to some extent. But when you said it were you like, "Oh, did she lose weight, that bitch" or -
CLIENT: No, it was more like "I wish I could be like that" not like "Oh I hate her, I hope she eats like 20 pounds of chocolate or something."
THERAPIST: &amp; CLIENT: (inaudible at 0:03:07)
CLIENT: But it's more like "Oh I wish I had that self control." Which my sister's the same as me. Like, I mean, we're never, like, that far - I mean, we fluctuate but, like, within a small - but the same way. So it's like, it's not -
THERAPIST: This is your older sister or your younger sister?
CLIENT: Younger, younger.
THERAPIST: How much younger?
CLIENT: She's two years younger. Yeah. But -
THERAPIST: So, all-in-all it was a good week. Did you -
CLIENT: It was good.
THERAPIST: Did you have any time to read the book more?
CLIENT: I did read a little. I'm almost done.
THERAPIST: Good.
CLIENT: I read it and - I'm sorry, I don't know why I'm speaking so loud.
THERAPIST: &amp; CLIENT: (Laughs and inaudible at 0:03:40)
THERAPIST: I tend to do that sometimes, though, but I don't (‘inaudible at 0:03:46)
CLIENT: Yeah, so, I did read it and I'm almost finished. I was so tired that night. I wanted to finish it that night but I was so tired I went to bed. And then I haven't picked it up again. But the next time I do I'll finish it for sure.
THERAPIST: That's okay. And if you're mostly done with it I'm sure you got the gist of the book.
CLIENT: Yeah, I think I'm actually going to read through it again. Because every time I read it I'm like, "Jesus. This is exactly my issue."
THERAPIST: You're reading the Guide to Rational Living?
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: Okay. So, do you feel like it was helpful? (inaudible at 0:04:09)
CLIENT: Yeah, I really like it. And I would like another one once I finish this one. (inaudible at 0:04:14) or even simultaneously read this one again, because it's really - like there were really helpful things in there.
THERAPIST: But, I think a lot of it is very common-sensey (ph). But it's stuff that you don't tell yourself and don't remind yourself enough.
CLIENT: Exactly. Although I do get annoyed when it's like, "Anne came in to see me for five sessions" and then, like, after the sessions -
THERAPIST: She was fine?
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: She never had a relationship problem again.
CLIENT: Yeah, and I'm just like, "Really? I'm trying really hard." You know, I know it's -
THERAPIST: You're not getting therapy from Albert Ellis, that's why. You know, if you were you'd be cured already.
CLIENT: That's why, that's why, yeah.
(Laughter)
CLIENT: No, but I do like it anyway. But, yeah, so this week, I mean, actually I will - I think that - I don't know if it's that I'm improving but I'm really trying. Like I'm really trying to catch myself before I explode into whatever. And I'm trying to think of if anything happened.
THERAPIST: And you're kind of doing disputation on your own. Well, I assume when you catch yourself then you're disputing with yourself.
CLIENT: Yeah, and like when I start to get in that bad mood about something stupid I try to tell myself like, "No one's perfect. And even though I'd like to be ‘this', I mean, life is great and I'm happy with it and I'm going to accept it whatever." So, I've been trying to use -
THERAPIST: It sounds like you've been successful. Obviously it has been. Usually you come in with, "Okay, I want to talk about this, and then I have to talk about this. We'll talk about that later, and then there's this too." It sounds like it was a fairly calm week.
CLIENT: Yeah, it has been. The one concern that I have this particular week is that I did something really bad that I'm not proud of. The thing is like everything with Fernão (ph) is great. And the truth is I'm mo - I've been living with him. Like, that's - since he's gotten here, whatever. And it's been fine. Like, we have our bad moments, whatever. But, we enjoy spending time together. I'm never really like, "Oof (ph) I wish you would leave." You know? But it's starting to, like - I can't really explain it. But like - and that's a step. Like, living with someone is a step. But we never discussed it. So it's not - I'm feeling like I'm not really seeing, like, like, like progress - I don't know. It's progress, but like, I feel like when you don't talk about it it's -
THERAPIST: I don't know what you're trying to say, sorry.
CLIENT: No, it's just that I'm...
THERAPIST: Are you saying -
CLIENT: ...feeling our relationship is just like, kind of at a standstill.
THERAPIST: Okay. Would you like him to say, like, "Do you want to move in with me?"
CLIENT: It's not that. It's just that I feel like feelings are never discussed, and maybe it's just because whatever. But, like, we never discussed - Okay, it wasn't planned that I was going to live with him, but I feel like after I'd been there a while maybe he could've said, like, you know, "I like this situation" or "You know, if you want to go to your parents sometimes I don't - " like, I don't know. Something.
THERAPIST: To say, kind of, how he was thinking. What he was thinking.
CLIENT: Right. And even other than that, like besides that, the bigger thing is that I don't even know if it should be an issue. But, like, he hasn't said, "I love you" yet. And I haven't either because I'm just not - I wouldn't. It's just the way I am. And the truth is, the honest truth is, I'm not sure I'm in love with him either. And, well, I don't know how he feels. Well, I do know and that's part of the rest of the story. But I don't really know. And I know I'm really happy with him. There's nothing I feel like I'm lacking in this relationship. But the last time I remember being in love; or when I thought I was in love. And I'm not sure if it was love, or if it was, like, infatuation. But it was a very different feeling.
THERAPIST: When was that?
CLIENT: I was like 18.
THERAPIST: Okay, so it was a long time ago.
CLIENT: It's been ten years almost.
THERAPIST: And feelings sometimes feel different when we're younger.
CLIENT: Yeah, so, the thing is if I had to guess I would say that I am in love with him. But I don't know. It's weird. I didn't ever expect it to feel this way.
THERAPIST: To feel confused? Or to feel in love?
CLIENT: I don't know if I feel so much confused because of my feelings or because of his. Like, I'm like - because I'm a little nervous about the way he feels. I don't want to like, put myself out there. You know what I mean?
THERAPIST: But it's funny how your feelings would change if you knew how he felt.
CLIENT: It is funny, and it's stupid. But -
THERAPIST: That means that (inaudible at 0:08:40) not necessarily your feelings, but what you want to admit that your feelings are.
CLIENT: Yeah, yeah.
THERAPIST: So, what's the bad thing that you did?
CLIENT: Well I have been wondering, like, how he's been feeling. I mean, I could guess, like, without him saying anything how he feels about me.
THERAPIST: Which is, you think he's in love with you?
CLIENT: I think, I think that he, because of his background, I could tell you a little about it, that he is a little bit of an emotionally disconnected person. And that he may not - it could take him a really long time to realize he's in love with someone. I don't think he knows what love is on, on any level. The basic like mother-son, father-son love, whatever. Even sister-like. I don't - I think - and I can see it in him. Like sometimes he's great and caring and whatever and wonderful. And sometimes it's like he's just nothing. And it's obvious. And I know it's because of how he grew up and his issues or whatever. But I think he might be. I really do. Sometimes I feel like he is.
THERAPIST: He made a pretty big step by coming here.
CLIENT: That's the thing. And there are times where, like, he does things that I don't think a person who just likes someone or just a really nice person would do it. Like, it's more than that. But, it's my point of view and I don't know unless he - you know, I can't speak for him. So, whatever. Anyway. I saw his e-mail once. And yeah, I looked at it. It's not like it was just there. I looked at it.
THERAPIST: Did you sign in to his account?
CLIENT: He left it.
THERAPIST: It was open, like on G-mail, okay.
CLIENT: And I looked - I saw an e-mail that his friend wrote him asking about me. And he hadn't written back for a while. And so, I knew he was going to - I left for some time or something one day and I knew he was going to write back because he was like, "I'm going to do my e-mails" or whatever. So, when I came back he was cleaning in the downstairs and I went upstairs and his e-mail was up. So I got to see what he wrote. And I went as far as, I'm going to laugh, but it's not funny. I went as far as to copy and paste the part of where my name was, put it in a word document, print it, and then delete it. So that I had it so I could read it. Because it's in Portuguese, so it's going to take me a little bit longer.
THERAPIST: (Laughs)
CLIENT: Yeah, I know. And interestingly enough I left it at the nail place and they're holding it for me. But, whatever. And I read it. And basically what it said was - it was a girlfriend of his, one of his best friends, and he was just like, "Well, I don't really know what to tell you." I mean, he was like, "Things are - "he didn't really say things are going well, but from the tone of it it's like, "Things are going well, we have our bad times, whatever. But she's living with me. And things are better than from the beginning when I was complaining." Which I didn't read that e-mail so I don't know what he said. And it just basically said, "But the real question is am I really in love." And it said something like, "I would - "something like, "I would say no, I would tell you no, but then again I don't know - I don't think of love the same way I did when I was younger. So, I'm not sure." And he said something like, and I don't know because this is my translation which is not, obviously, the best. But it said something like, "I don't know - I haven't lost hope that I could fall in love with her eventually." Something like that. And I don't know if, I mean, it's literal, it's a literal translation so I don't know if that's like, I haven't lost hope is like an expression that they use or whatever.
THERAPIST: It could be something like - It could even be "I am hopeful." Like that. Or "I feel like it's going to happen."
CLIENT: Yeah. "I feel like it could happen" or whatever. I mean, whatever. And then it's just like, "She's really great, she's a wonderful person, and the problem is me." It said, "I'm difficult in these situations, as you know. Like, these things are really difficult for me. But it's the most serious relationship I ever had in my life so we'll see what happens in the future." It wasn't all bad. But - and it's my fault. I can't blame him. Because I shouldn't have read it. It wasn't - but to read that is, like, it's a little like, hm (ph), you know?
THERAPIST: I think it's also, when - and I, if I read it myself I'm sure that I would have a similar reaction if I could be honest enough with you to say. But there are some things in there that could be perceived to be hurtful. But there are elements, firstly, the translation. Words like "hope" and things like that can be entirely different. Especially in the usage. So, you don't really know what it means.
CLIENT: I don't, really.
THERAPIST: Secondly.
CLIENT: I will take it to my friend who speaks Portuguese better than me to decipher it, but whatever. Anyway, okay.
THERAPIST: And then secondly - I can't remember what I was going to say. You're reading, kind of, so much into the questionable portion rather than the good things, which is that this is the most love he's ever been. Kind of, this is this most serious relationship he's ever had. That things are going well. That he thinks you're wonderful. You know what I mean? And it's funny because it seems like you kind of have similar feelings. Like you're not one hundred percent sure.
CLIENT: I know, which is why it's stranger that I - but I think that he thinks I feel strong - more -
THERAPIST: Strongly?
CLIENT: Strongly about him than he feels. Like I get that impression. Because we had a fight that day because I was annoyed by this thing and also he was - he gets - he has anxi - like severe anxiety. He takes medication for it. But he translates his anxiety into physical ailments. Like he's also a hypochondriac. And he gets sick all the time. And it's like he goes to the doctor all the time. And the doctor tells him every time that he's fine. So, clearly this is in your head. That there's nothing wrong with this boy. And so it's really frustrating for me because I come from like Nurse Ratchet's family where, like, you were never sick and it didn't matter what you have. It's really difficult for me to understand because he's not only sick but he's in a bad mood, he has anxiety, he doesn't know why. And it's like; when I have anxiety I know why I have anxiety. You know?
THERAPIST: But some people with anxiety disorders don't always know that.
CLIENT: I know, but it's difficult -
THERAPIST: It's difficult for you to understand.
CLIENT: (inaudible at 0:15:07) And I don't mind. It's not like I'm completely like -
THERAPIST: Does he seek treatment for it?
CLIENT: He did.
THERAPIST: Other than that occasion?
CLIENT: Yeah, in Portugal.
THERAPIST: You ought to send him here.
CLIENT: I know. I think he should see someone because it's - I mean, he's really - and it's true, his issues - this is how he was raised is to bottle up his issues and whatever.
THERAPIST: So, is there any way that you can accept that those are the feelings that he was having at one time, but not say that this is how he's feeling in the future or try to interpret how he's feeling in the past and just say, "Maybe this was just how he was feeling that day at the time. It was mainly positive."
CLIENT: Oh, you mean the e-mail?
THERAPIST: Yeah, I guess we'll talk about the anxiety in another - in another -
CLIENT: Yeah, the e-mail. I mean, I'm not that upset about it. Like, it was hurtful but I know I shouldn't have read it. And things you say to your friends - like I say to my friends some things sometimes that I really, maybe, don't necessarily mean one hundred percent about him.
THERAPIST: You just need someone to complain to.
CLIENT: Yeah, someone to like vent.
THERAPIST: Were you guys fighting a lot up there in the beginning?
CLIENT: No, but it was stressful because he had to get so much stuff and -
THERAPIST: So, the things he was saying might not have been - It could have just been it's better than it was because it felt stressful. It might not have been -
CLIENT: Yeah, it's true. I mean, there are definitely more than one way to read into this.
THERAPIST: (inaudible at 0:16:31) Are you going to try to check his past e-mails? That's my next question.
CLIENT: Well, no because I already did do that. Before I found this one. And he's either deleted the ones he's written or I can't - I haven't looked hard enough. But no, I'm not. I'm not going to.
THERAPIST: So you've been reading his e-mails all along?
CLIENT: One time I looked through all the e-mails because he left his e-mails up and just because I was curious about what he said about me, really, obviously. And I found nothing. Nothing.
THERAPIST: Said about you at all, or nothing -
CLIENT: Said about me at all. But he does, you can see by his e-mails that he deletes a lot of things. So, you know, like spam and whatever. So it would be difficult - But I'm not going to look into that anymore.
THERAPIST: I think sometimes in the beginning of relationships, and maybe at the end when you think they're cheating on your or something, but you know, the beginning - because, I think you're so unsure of your feelings it's like you don't know how to feel therefore you're looking to him. So that you can say, "Okay, it's okay for me to feel this way." Or "Now I'm going to feel this way because he feels this way."
CLIENT: Yeah, it's true, it's true. Sorry, I'm looking for my lip-gloss in this nightmare bag.
THERAPIST: It's okay. This could take a while.
CLIENT: Yeah, forever.
THERAPIST: What would it mean to you to just accept your feelings as they are and not appraise them off of someone else's?
CLIENT: I would like to do that.
THERAPIST: What if you were in love with him and he was in love with you?
CLIENT: That's the question, I think. I mean, I would love to just - the truth is I do think I'm a little bit unsure, although leaning toward one side. But, and I would like to just accept that and not care - well, not that I wouldn't care but not base my feelings on his. But the thing is, I think the thing I've been struggling with this week is what if I'm in love with him and he just finds that he's not in love with me?
THERAPIST: It sounds like he's close and not everybody takes the same amount of time. Especially someone who's never felt this kind of love before and has difficulty accepting it and admitting it.
CLIENT: Yeah, I'm trying to tell myself that.
THERAPIST: So he might be a person who takes longer.
CLIENT: That maybe, like, although I feel like at this point our feelings should be clearer it doesn't have to - I mean, we're older - I mean we're older and like this relationship has been crazy from the beginning because we were together a month and then I got my home. And then I got deported, and then all this stuff. You know?
THERAPIST: When did you check the e-mail? This one? The last one?
CLIENT: This one?
THERAPIST: Yeah, when did you read it, I guess?
CLIENT: Well, what's today? Today's Thursday. It had to be Tuesday.
THERAPIST: It was after Thanksgiving and after the Holidays, so fairly recently.
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: My question is because you read it now, and because you know it's information, and because I do know you, and how emotions are likely to then affect other emotions and reactions; have you ever thought about confessing this?
CLIENT: I have. And it's like I think that the relationship would be over. For sure. I know the way he is. I'm pretty sure. I'm pretty confident. And I'm living in fear that he's going to somehow find out. I've already tried to copy and paste again to see -
THERAPIST: Do you think he moved to this country and he would break up with you over reading his e-mail?
CLIENT: Yeah. Or at least it would be such a huge fight that -
THERAPIST: Isn't there any way - I mean, you are sorry you did it.
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: And I feel like you're not quite sure that you're not going to do it again.
CLIENT: Yeah, I guess.
THERAPIST: But, if you probably told him it'd probably be less likely that you'd do it again.
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: And also if you told him it would be a good way of opening up. I mean, this is - if you feel like this is way out there, obviously, this is the wrong (inaudible at 0:20:23). I don't know Fernão (ph). But there is a way to bring it up to say, "You know, I've been feeling like I really don't know how you're feeling recently and I got a little crazy and I - you left your e-mail open and I checked it. And I read an e-mail." You know, say, "I printed it out." (inaudible at 0:20:39) "I quickly read an e-mail that I saw my name in. I didn't read really anything else. I just read that. "You know, and be like, "Just because I really am so confused with how you feel about me. And it's not your fault. It's my fault for not expressing that I'd like to know more. And I'd like you to - and I'm really sorry and I'm going to really make sure it doesn't happen again. But it just leads me to want to have a conversation with you because I don't feel like I know what's going on in your head and when I feel like that I get crazy.
CLIENT: Yeah. The only thing is, I mean, it would be - I'd want to tell him. Because I feel so guilty that I did it. And I'd prefer just to be honest. But the thing is that I don't even know how he feels. It's what I thought before I read the e-mail. It's exactly the way I felt when I saw it. And it's sort of similar to how I feel. So, I'm worried that it's an unnecessary conversation. We're not even going to focus on that, it's going to be more about "how could you have read my e-mails you crazy psycho." You know?
THERAPIST: Okay. I mean, I think a lot more people do that then they want to own up to.
CLIENT: I think pretty much any - almost anyone
THERAPIST: &amp; CLIENT: (inaudible at 0:21:47)
CLIENT: I've never even written e-mails about him, but I make sure my e-mails are signed out.
THERAPIST: (inaudible at 0:21:59)
CLIENT: I mean, you know, I'm really careful.
THERAPIST: But obviously he trusts you or he wouldn't have done that. And it's almost he's an idiot. He's not the type of person that's cheating or has their, like, five cell phones that they keep on them.
CLIENT: Yeah, no. But, I don't know. I don't think -
THERAPIST: I mean, if you think that that's the wrong course then it wouldn't really be -
CLIENT: No, I think it's the right way. But I don't think I can do it.
THERAPIST: Okay, well is there any way that at least you could take the positive out of this and just bring up the conversation? And maybe what he said to his friend isn't exactly accurate. And I'm sure he's not telling his friend every - how close - it's not like -
CLIENT: I don't know.
THERAPIST: I don't know. I know my boyfriend doesn't tell everything to his friends. They say like a lot less to each other than -
CLIENT: But why wouldn't he? I mean, if he were to tell the truth -
THERAPIST: Because maybe he hasn't admitted to it like you haven't admitted to yourself yet. He could not have admitted to himself yet either. And even if the conversation doesn't end with, "I love you" it sounds at least that you're both saying "I'm falling." Like, "I feel like I'm in the process." It could just be a conversation about being more emotionally sharing with each other.
CLIENT: Well, that's the thing. That day, because I was so upset about the e-mail, but I was also upset because he acted; he was sick, and he was whatever - and so I said something to him and I was just like, you know - I had an attitude with him, basically because my mom was there with this guy fixing curtains and I couldn't talk to him before then. But I said to him, like, you know, he noticed I was annoyed. And he said, like, "well what's the matter?" And I said, "well, you're sick all the time and there's nothing wrong with you. And it's not even that, but like, when you're in these moods, like, you seem very disconnected." And it's like, I don't know, I like to believe I always admit my flaws and the things I do wrong, but I'm sure I don't. But he was just like, "I don't understand what you mean." Basically like refuting it. And then, then at the end admitting it. And so it's really frustrating, because it's so simple. Like, I don't have a psychology degree. I don't know anything about it. But he was raised in a family - a super strict religious traditional conservative family. They have so many issues that they never discussed it. They don't speak about things to each other. It makes sense that this is how he deals with his issues. Like he's going to be this open person who wants to discuss every - No. It's like impossible.
THERAPIST: So, is there any way for you to have a conversation that's not as confronting and is a little more sensitive to the fact that this is his family and this is the way he was raised?
CLIENT: Well, I didn't say anything about his family, but he said, "This is the way I was raised. This is the way I know how to deal with my problems. I don't want to, you know; bring you into the sadness and all these bad things. Like, this is how I deal with it." Basically like he internalizes everything and that's
THERAPIST: &amp; CLIENT: (inaudible at 0:24:59)
CLIENT: Yes. I said, "I want you to." And he said, "Well, this is the way I am right now. Like, I'm not saying I'll never be able to open up to you. This is how I am right now." And I said, "Well, if that's the way you are and you're not willing to change it right now then I guess I have to accept it." I mean, it's accept it or - it's not the biggest or worst issue in the world. But it is very difficult for my personality.
THERAPIST: Eventually, maybe, he'll learn to open up a little bit.
CLIENT: But I just feel like a person who's so emotionally shut off, like, can't talk about any - he hasn't even said, "I like you so much" to me.
THERAPIST: Laura, though, do you think the way that you're reacting to him is going to make him more likely to open up?
CLIENT: No, I'm just telling you that -
THERAPIST: &amp; CLIENT: (inaudible at 0:25:48)
THERAPIST: I know. I can't work with his emotions.
CLIENT: No, I know.
THERAPIST: You understand this. What I can work with is your reaction.
CLIENT: I know. The thing is that he complains about it a lot which I do think is related to other things we've been working, is my - I get very - when I get annoyed about something it's obvious. Like, I can't get the annoyance off of my face. Anger. Whatever emotion it is. So, it's very uncomfortable for someone -
THERAPIST: To be around you at that time.
CLIENT: To be around me because they see that there's something to wrong with my physically, you know, on my face.
THERAPIST: Well, do you tell them, "I'm having a hard time; I just need to be alone for a little while." Or do you parade it around and show off that you're annoyed?
CLIENT: Well, if he says to me, like, "What's the matter?" I'll tell him. Like, if (inaudible at 0:26:35) stupid things, but I'll tell him. But he just doesn't like the fact that I let it show, or if I'm annoyed it's obvious. But I don't like the fact that when he's annoyed he internalizes is it so, you know, why is it fair that I have to accept you - you know what I mean?
THERAPIST: Yeah. Maybe - I mean, do you think he would be more accepting of you if you were a little more accepting of him? Or no? You think he's kind of -
CLIENT: He told me I was too demanding. And I hate that I'm like that, because I really don't mean to be that way. And I don't consider myself a demanding person. But it seems that I really am. Like, I'm very -
THERAPIST: Yeah, because you do one thing one way it makes sense for him to do it that way.
CLIENT: Right.
THERAPIST: Or your way seems more healthier to you so he should be doing it that way. But people come in their own time.
CLIENT: I know.
THERAPIST: It doesn't mean - You know, it's like some people do change, and hopefully he can change for the better, and deal with his anxiety more, and deal with, you know, his own issues in a way that - I mean, it's working for him, obviously, to some level. Because he's functional.
CLIENT: Right, he is. He's very functional.
THERAPIST: Because his whole - and, you know, and this could be the way that he deals with it. You know, who knows if he's going to want to seek treatment? So, can you accept that, and then in turn try to change your behavior? Change your demandingness? (ph)
CLIENT: Yeah, and I would like to do that. That's, I think -
THERAPIST: So what are you going to do if you come home and he's saying, "Oh I'm so sick, my stomach hurts. I don't know why I'm sick I just feel weird. Blah, blah, blah."
CLIENT: I'm gonna kill - no, I'm kidding. I don't know. I mean, I - there are times where I don't get annoyed. I don't get annoyed about that. It was because I read the e-mail that I was annoyed about that.
THERAPIST: Which is why I'm concerned; is the e-mail going to loom over you and continue to have you being annoyed at him? How long is it going to take for you to get over the e-mail?
CLIENT: No, I don't think so. I think that - well, you see, it's difficult because he has a friend visiting who came yesterday until next Wednesday or Thursday. So, I'm staying with my parents because - anyway I think it's a good opportunity for us to have some time apart just because we're constantly together and - No, I mean, I don't feel angry about it. I don't - I'm not - I guess I do a little bit. That's a lie. I do. But I think I can get over it.
THERAPIST: So what are you angry about? Let's work on this. What are you angry about?
CLIENT: I'm angry that he's not in love with me. (Laughs) It's so stupid. It's really stupid.
THERAPIST: So if he's not in love with you what does that mean?
CLIENT: Nothing. It doesn't mean anything.
THERAPIST: No, what are you telling yourself it means?
CLIENT: That I'm doing something wrong. That there's something that I'm not doing right. Maybe it's because I'm not talking Portuguese to him, or maybe it's because of my annoyance, or my overreacting.
THERAPIST: So, there's something - if there was something wrong with you, and that's why he wasn't in love with you, then what would that mean?
CLIENT: That I'm a fuck up.
THERAPIST: And would that be awful?
CLIENT: Yeah. It would be awful. It would be awful.
THERAPIST: And you'd hate yourself, and you would be worthless.
CLIENT: (inaudible at 0:30:04) Yeah, basically.
THERAPIST: If you couldn't make Fernão (ph) fall in love with you it'd be a waste of space.
CLIENT: If I couldn't?
THERAPIST: Yeah.
CLIENT: Yeah. Basically.
THERAPIST: Is that how most people do it? That they make people fall in love with them?
CLIENT: No. (Laughs) No. No.
THERAPIST: They're so wonderful that people just fall in love with them? Or isn't it like a -
CLIENT: No, because there are awful people that other people fall in love with, so -
THERAPIST: And they do things wrong all the time. And falling in love is probably part - it's probably hard to fall in love if you're not a person who's receptive to falling in love, right?
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: Like, it takes too people to fall in love. I mean, I guess there's those people that fall in love at first sight, but, what kind of love is that really?
CLIENT: I know, right?
THERAPIST: So, a lot of it is probably dependant on him. I mean, even if you did everything perfect is there a chance that he still wouldn't be in love with you?
CLIENT: Yeah, because, you know, people who don't like perfection, you know, like it's boring. It can be.
THERAPIST: And also if he was somebody that didn't know how to fall in love yet he could still feel the exact same way where - unsure. And if you, in fact, did something wrong and he didn't fall in love with you would that really be awful?
CLIENT: I know the answer is no. But I know that I feel like it would be. You know what I mean?
THERAPIST: Why do you feel like it would be awful? Could you not get out of bed and go to work the next day? Or next week?
CLIENT: No. No, I could and I would.
THERAPIST: Would you ever be able to fall in love again?
CLIENT: Yeah, but I start thinking, like, I'll never find any - you know, seems to be like -
THERAPIST: But, it might take some time. Which feels like, "I'll never fall in love." But you realistically know it might just take some time before you meet somebody. I mean, in reality it's probably more awful for him. He moves across the - awful.
CLIENT: True.
THERAPIST: He moved across the -
CLIENT: It's true.
THERAPIST: ...the ocean to be here, with you. So, it's not really awful. And if you couldn't be so perfect enough; perfect enough to make him fall in love with you. Would you be worthless?
CLIENT: No, I know I wouldn't. I know I wouldn't. But I know I would feel like it was the end of the world if it - if he broke up because of that.
THERAPIST: Why would it be your fault?
CLIENT: It wouldn't.
THERAPIST: And even if it was your fault isn't that what happens in relationships all the time? Somebody makes a mistake?
CLIENT: The truth is that I know it wouldn't be my fault, because he's even said in the e-mail it's - "this problem is mine." Like, "it has nothing to do with her." And I know that that's true. And I know that even the flaws that I do have, my annoyance, whatever, he's accepting.
THERAPIST: Maybe if you were a little bit skinnier, a little prettier, then he'd be in love with you?
CLIENT: The thought does go through my mind. But -
THERAPIST: You think five pounds is - influences love?
CLIENT: No, because I know, I know that it's not true. Like, I know it. I mean, if I was 30 pounds heavier he could fall in love with me. You know what I mean? It doesn't matter.
THERAPIST: Because you tell yourself that. Because you're so angry with him for saying something but it's really angry - it's like angry with yourself for not controlling the way he feels.
CLIENT: I know, it's so bad. It's really bad. This brain that I have.
THERAPIST: It's not bad.
CLIENT: (Laughs) I know, but.
THERAPIST: You can't control everything.
CLIENT: I know.
THERAPIST: Do you know that?
CLIENT: I know it.
THERAPIST: But you're never going to find out by reading his e-mails, what's really going on. He could be lying to this girl. Who knows, this girl might have just gotten out of a terrible break up and it's like (inaudible at 0:34:02) There could be a million reasons. He could, in fact, be in love with you. He could be not in love with you at all and just want (inaudible at 0:34:09). But you did not provide that for him. He could have come regardless, right?
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: He could've showed up without ever calling you. He has money and resources too. So, really, he's here because he definitely likes you and has strong feelings for you. And I think the only way you're going to know is if you ask. And it's been a week. Maybe he's thought about it more since he's written the e-mail. And at least you'll get the answer from him. So, do you think you could have a conversation? Be like, "I really want to know how you feel about me."
CLIENT: Yeah, I think I could. It's just I would need to -
THERAPIST: If you heard it from his mouth would you feel like [saying something] (ph) about the e-mail?
CLIENT: That's the thing is, I don't know. That I don't know. I think that if he says to me the same things. It's also, it can be difficult with the language. Like, they say the way they speak in Portuguese and he translates that into English sometimes it's very - it's not harsh but it's very direct. And it's a way that I'm not used to. So especially in a delicate situation it might be more difficult.
THERAPIST: But he might be more delicate too, I'm sure.
CLIENT: Yeah, he might. But, I wouldn't have a problem talking to him about it. And the only reason why I didn't bring it up that night is because his friend was coming the next morning and I just didn't want to deal with the - whatever the consequences were.
THERAPIST: Could you talk about it in a way that even if he said, "No, I'm not sure yet, but I really care about you and I think it's a problem with me." Is there a way you that you could be happy after that and still be a happy relationship? Or do you feel like if he doesn't say he's in love with you then you'll feel completely insecure in the relationship?
CLIENT: I know, I mean, I'll feel bad for sure. I won't feel insecure, but I'll feel bad. But, I think - I know that - I mean, I'm not sure how I feel; so I can't expect him -
THERAPIST: But if he said, "I love you" to you would you say, "I love you too"?
CLIENT: Probably.
THERAPIST: Would you feel it if he really felt it?
CLIENT: I don't know, it depends on the moment, maybe. But -
THERAPIST: So, maybe it's just the time to just say that I really care about you so much. And that's all the conversation has to be if you're not sure either.
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: Be like, "I'm really happy you're here. I kind of want to know how you're feeling too." And if he just says the same then just leave it at that.
CLIENT: Yeah, I think that's what I'll do.
THERAPIST: And it might just be reassuring to hear that, since it's - and be like, "I really want to talk about this more often because I feel insecure." Would that be really hard to do?
CLIENT: It might be hard to tell him that I feel insecure. Because I feel like, for some reason, and this is a crazy thing, that if you tell someone you feel insecure they notice it more. And like it's more -
THERAPIST: Do you think he hasn't noticed?
CLIENT: No, I think he prob - (ph) definitely has. It's so obvious. But it makes it more real, I think, if you say it.
THERAPIST: Do you think, though, that when somebody says it as opposed to showing all the time it's a little more endearing?
CLIENT: What do you mean?
(inaudible at 0:37:15)
THERAPIST: Are you going out tonight? Oh give me a call when you come back I want to know when you're home. Oh you didn't call me when you got home?" or do you think someone saying, "I'm really insecure sometimes, and like blah, blah, blah." I think when people admit their flaws, like, it's enduring, and it's loveable.
CLIENT: It's true. Yeah, no, it's true. It's true.
THERAPIST: And to make you feel better, I know you have a hard time discussing your emotions, but how about a way that doesn't turn into a fight?
CLIENT: We're not like very -
THERAPIST: Or like in a way that doesn't leave you feeling angry.
CLIENT: Yeah, that's the more difficult one. Because we don't really fight. We're not, you know. It doesn't happen easily.
THERAPIST: So what if he says the same thing he said in the e-mail? What are you going to think? Are you going to think the same thing? I'm doing something wrong? Or he should love me, I'm doing everything right?
CLIENT: I mean -
THERAPIST: He should love me, he moved all the way across the country.
CLIENT: a part of me - a part of me will think that, yeah. At least a part.
THERAPIST: What kind of person moves across the ocean without being in love with a person?
CLIENT: No, it's more like he should love me, I'm doing everything right. And it's by far the biggest. Yeah, I know, I know. But, you know, I'm being so modest.
(Laughter)
CLIENT: Yeah, it's really bad. But, I don't know.
THERAPIST: And what if he doesn't? Not yet? I mean, I don't think we have to worry about he doesn't at all. I think at least he loves you as a person.
CLIENT: Yeah, I think that's for sure true.
THERAPIST: And it sounds like he's even admitted that he's probably thinking it's going to happen.
CLIENT: I don't know. No. I don't know if that was really said. I got more of a negative vibe from him, but my -
THERAPIST: Well, that could be your interpretation. Estranged (ph) interpretation, and through e-mail to someone that you don't know that well. So don't you think you should hear it from him before you have all these thoughts?
CLIENT: Yeah, probably.
THERAPIST: Then you deal with it from there. I think all these things generally seem like it's going to go worse than it does.
CLIENT: Sorry, I just got really paranoid that my phone is on and he was like hearing this whole conversation. Sorry, well, it is on, but I think it's impossible to respond anyway. Yeah, I don't know. I mean, I would really like to just be happy with the way things are. Because we have a really good relationship. And things are going really well, and there's nothing to be negative about. Like, he's not, like, less caring than a boyfriend who's in love with - he's just, he's great. But, I wish I could just be happy with what it is.
THERAPIST: Well, maybe the way of - I mean, I don't think you can control people's feelings toward you.
CLIENT: No.
THERAPIST: But, I certainly think it's helpful to really express how you feel about him, and I'm not sure you're doing that all the time.
CLIENT: Yeah, I don't think I am.
THERAPIST: So, maybe you need to (inaudible at 0:40:22) and say how much you appreciate him and how much this move-in means to you and how much you love spending time with him. And sometimes it's hard but you love him so - or something short of that.
CLIENT: Easy, now.
THERAPIST: &amp; CLIENT: (laughs and inaudible at 0:40:36)
CLIENT: Yeah, I think it's true. I could do that.
THERAPIST: Because I think you're so concerned about what he's not doing for you, but you're not really doing it for him either. I mean, you've done a lot physically to be there for him. You've helped him so much with the move. But emotionally for someone who's complaining about how unemotional someone is the only emotion you really share with him is annoyance.
CLIENT: I know. Yeah.
THERAPIST: So, maybe your homework for this week is to reveal your insecurities a bit and show him that emotion. Because I don't think you're quite comfortable doing that.
CLIENT: Yeah, I know.
THERAPIST: What would it mean to be emotional and - I've already said that. Maybe don't say "I love you" but put yourself out there like that.
CLIENT: It'd be difficult.
THERAPIST: Why?
CLIENT: Because I'm always scared of rejection.
THERAPIST: You're just showing - you're not saying, "I love you." Is he going to reject your hug?
CLIENT: No.
THERAPIST: Is he going to push you away?
CLIENT: But -
THERAPIST: Reject your kiss? Or say, "Oh, I'm glad I moved here too." And then just go back to reading his paper?
CLIENT: No, but actually you're right. I think it's necessary. I think it's absolutely necessary that I do this.
THERAPIST: And if he does reject you you'll know a lot more about where you're going in the relationship.
CLIENT: That's true.
THERAPIST: If he's not a person that's going to be responding to loving advances then he's not the person for you.
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: You don't have that much to lose here. He's got a lot more to lose.
CLIENT: I know.
THERAPIST: I'm right?
CLIENT: Yeah. That's true.
THERAPIST: So, I think we're out of time for today.
CLIENT: Alright.
THERAPIST: But -
CLIENT: So, that's my homework?
THERAPIST: Yeah. Do you like that?
CLIENT: Yeah, it will be -
THERAPIST: Dispute when you're having irrational feelings about, "Oh, I shouldn't have to do this." Or "He should show me his first." You know, as women, we always have the, "Oh he should say it first. He should show me it first." Like, "I shouldn't have to feel insecure about the relationship. I should always feel loved." But there's no real reason.
CLIENT: Yeah, I know.
THERAPIST: And it doesn't make you weaker to do so. So I really want you to dispute, maybe even write it down, your disputations for fighting that anxiety about doing it and what it would mean.
CLIENT: Yeah, let me write this down. And also I think I'm going to try to make a note of when I get the annoying - annoyance face. Because I'd like to work on that at some point. Because it's not attractive.
THERAPIST: (Laughs)
CLIENT: And it's not helping me at all either. I mean - well, I don't know if I'll ever find a pen -
THERAPIST: You can rip off a piece from there if you want.
CLIENT: I have paper, I just don't know where I put my pen -
THERAPIST: Oh, here.
CLIENT: Oh, here it is. Okay, so dispute the -
THERAPIST: Like your anxiety.
CLIENT: Okay.
THERAPIST: Dispute your irrational beliefs that surround your anxiety, like, "I shouldn't have to do this." Or "I'm weak." Whatever they might be. "I'm weak if I show this." Like, "I don't want to show him how vulnerable and messed up I am."
CLIENT: Okay, in the relationship or whatever.
THERAPIST: And the homework is to show affection.
CLIENT: Right.
THERAPIST: You're going to be a love machine this week.
CLIENT: Show affection through words.
THERAPIST: Words; and actions.
CLIENT: Okay.
THERAPIST: If you want him to tell you how he feels you have to do the same.
CLIENT: I know, you're right. It's true. Especially, yeah. Okay. And then annoyance face.
THERAPIST: (Laughs) That's your own homework assignment. Okay?
CLIENT: Yeah. (inaudible at 0:44:10)
END TRANSCRIPT
