TRANSCRIPT OF AUDIO FILE:
______________________________________________________________________________
BEGIN TRANSCRIPT:
CLIENT: Yeah. So, I've tried not to freak out about the texting situation. It's fucking annoying, man. I feel so pathetic. So, Friday she texted me and she said she was packing. I don't know. Something like that. Everything, like, texted her back. Friday night she had left a hair clip or something that I found in my apartment. So, I took kind of like a cool picture of it and I was like hey thanks for leaving me a keepsake like until you get back or whatever.
So, she texted me back and she was like yeah, it wasn't accidental and then I was like. So, then I left it at that. It was like perfect. I don't have to respond, you know. Like, it's—then the next morning I was like have a good flight and all that. And then Saturday, that was Saturday morning. Saturday night, around like 7, she texted me and she's like, you know, it was kind of like we got bumped from a flight. It was kind of like, she's kind of like I made it. I hope you're having a good day. Whatever. [00:01:09]
So, here's what I'm freaking out about. Friday and Saturday because I was so happy that I got her text like Friday, once she said it wasn't accidental or whatever I didn't text back. I was like, you know, I'm just going to savor her. I just want to savor that I got a good text from her and I'm not anxious and that's fine. I left it, you know—. And the same thing Saturday. You know, I was like have a good flight in the morning and then in the evening she texted me again.
THERAPIST: And she didn't respond to that?
CLIENT: What?
THERAPIST: Have a good flight
CLIENT: Well, she did later.
THERAPIST: In the evening?
CLIENT: Yeah. Yeah. She was like, you know, we got bumped, but it was a long day, but we made it. You know, whatever. And I didn't respond to that. I was just so happy that I got that. I was like alright, she made it. Got a really nice text. All good.
So, I didn't, I texted her last night. For some reason, once I texted her, I just said, you know, how's it going so far? How are your folks? You know. Once I texted it for some reason I had a complete—not a freak out, but I was like dude, what, like. I started thinking about why didn't I text her back sooner. I, I cannot stop. Like I can't win with myself. You know what I mean? [00:02:18]
I was all happy that she had texted me and that I had refrained from over texting, whatever. I was just savoring the fact that okay, I texted her. She texted me back. All good. I can, you know what I mean? So, I texted her last night. I didn't hear back from her. And so now, yeah. Now, I'm completely freaked out. And, and what I hate that her texts on, on her iPhone. She has her receipt thing on. So, I hate the fact that I can see if she's read the text. I don't know why people have that on. Why they put that on on their iPhones. But, so that doesn't help, you know. So, I don't know.
Like I broke out in to a cold sweat last night because I saw that she had read it, but I didn't hear back. And I, and then I was like what the—the I just—oh, then I was like oh, fuck. I said how are your folks? But her father died and her mom remarried recently. So, it's not that, you know, folks is not a big deal, but, I, just, I broke out in to a cold sweat last night. Like, just I don't know, man. It's just so ridiculous. It's so fucking ridiculous. [00:03:35]
THERAPIST: When you say, you said twice so, I didn't text back, I just savored the moment. It sounds like it's, it's a moment where you're saying if you were to text back, there's a good chance she wouldn't then text me back.
CLIENT: Yeah, like I, I want, yeah. Like I want to be, I want to be the one to leave it at okay, she's texted me. There's closure. Like to me that's, you know what I mean? I heard from her. We're good. And that way I don't have to be like this for a while, you know.
THERAPIST: Except that if she says I had a lousy flight, it's kind of reasonable to say I'm so sorry.
CLIENT: You're killing me. You're killing me.
THERAPIST: What I'm killing you with is how you cut off your gut instincts about normal social conversation. You know, that to not be the one who's left the last texter. It's sort of like glasses (ph) no matter what bad, right? What it also feels like I'm feeling that I think is something that's a fantasy and not reality, as though one text is going to be, have anything to do with what makes or breaks the relationship again. Whether you responded or not. [00:04:45]
CLIENT: I know. I know. But I guess that's what I hate though, because yeah, that would have been mine. I was so happy to hear from her Saturday. And I didn't, I just kept myself from—and I mean I was, I was also busy. I mean I wasn't just sitting around. So, I just saw it. I was super happy I got it and I was in the middle of, you know, but yeah.
THERAPIST: Which is also reasonable, right?
CLIENT: Yeah. Yeah.
THERAPIST: Just as her getting yours last night might—
CLIENT: Right.
THERAPIST: —be that she saw it, but she was in mid-conversation with her family.
CLIENT: Right. Right.
THERAPIST: She'll respond today at some point.
CLIENT: Right. Right. Right. But, yeah, I'm, but—. Oh, yeah. I just hate the whole thing. I just really do. Because yeah, now then that's why I broke, see it's happened now too. Like I'm getting sweaty. Like I, that's the way I felt. I was like man, like I would have totally responded. Because her e-mail was so nice. She sent me one of those emoticons and, you know, like, I, if it any other. If I felt totally like, like there's a relationship or whatever. Like this is my girlfriend. Of course, I would have, you know. [00:05:44]
But because, yeah, and also the thing is, the one thing I do feel that is reasonable. You know, I went on a date with this girl two years ago. And I never heard back from her. So, you know what I mean? Like. I, I don't want to get my hopes up in some ways. You know what I mean? Like I really, really like her and I'm already pretty cautious or whatever. You know, and I'm just, I don't know. Oh.
THERAPIST: You're taking even what I'm saying as though there's like a right answer. That if only you do that, that it's going to alter the course of the future.
CLIENT: Right.
THERAPIST: It's not the case. That's the, assuming that is what gets you hung up on and then in so if I text her back that could also alter the course of the future.
CLIENT: Right.
THERAPIST: Both of which are not you just being yourself.
CLIENT: Right.
THERAPIST: Just be yourself and if, you know, if she enjoys that self, that's a good relationship for you. If she doesn't, it's not a good relationship for you. That's part of the risk I guess is just being you.
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: I hear you inhibiting being you. You know, in some of these moments. [07:00:00]
CLIENT: Yeah. Oh, man. Today's going to suck. And I already like on my way here that voice was just all over the place. Like I just, I stopped quickly to get a coffee and there's a fucking cop around the corner. He's like honking because I can't park there. So, I had to fucking figure out the parking. Then, then I got stopped at a green light because a fire fucking truck was going by or whatever. And, of course, I was the last one left when the light turned red. Like and my voice was just like. I dropped my glasses today in the apartment and each time it was like I just get very frustrated and I think it's—.
THERAPIST: What's your voice?
CLIENT: It's just like, you know, every little thing is going wrong and this is because it's all, it's all connected. That, you know, she's upset with you about something. That you didn't get back to her immediately on Saturday. I don't know. It's all irrational. I, I, I intellectually get that it's all irrational. What person is going to hold a grudge about an e-mail? Like, I mean a text. You know what I mean? That wouldn't make any fucking sense. [00:08:16]
THERAPIST: Or based whether or not to have the relationship on that.
CLIENT: Yeah. Yeah. Especially when there's nothing to be—I mean I was the one. I could have easily just texted her nothing Saturday. You know, I was like hey, I hope you have a good flight, you know. So, okay, I might have not gotten back to her once she got back to me, but, I mean. Yeah, like it's just irrational. If she's getting to know me I think she clearly knows I'm thoughtful and I really care about her. I mean, I think I've made that abundantly clear at this point, you know. So—.
THERAPIST: You texted her a picture of her hair pin?
CLIENT: Yeah, and—
THERAPIST: That's a very intimate—
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: —gesture.
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: If she was going to be mad—.
CLIENT: And also, quite frankly, I'm the one that tells her that I miss her. You know, I mean she, she'll tell me, but only when I tell her. You know, so I mean, I have, I've been putting myself out there, you know. [00:09:15]
I, I think I just hate the whole thing. I hate this feeling that I feel like, you know, if this doesn't work out I'm like, it just, I don't know. Somehow screwed and I don't know. I don't know. Or if it doesn't work out I'm really going to be—I'm going to really be like what is wrong with me? You know, like—
THERAPIST: Also, all this is happening over text which is the most ambiguous form of communication. You're basing—it is moment by moment.
CLIENT: Right. Right.
THERAPIST: There's not, there's not even a kind of mutual hanging up the phone.
CLIENT: Right. Right.
THERAPIST: Where you get even a little (ph).
CLIENT: Yeah. Yeah.
THERAPIST: It's, I mean it's, it just seems like it's sort of the most vulnerable way you could—
CLIENT: Communicate.
THERAPIST: Communicate all this stuff.
CLIENT: Yeah. It's just, yeah. I don't know what else to do. I mean, it's become easier. So, in some ways I'd feel way more nervous leaving her a voice mail or something. You know what I mean? It's just. I don't know. I don't know. Man. This fucking sucks. [00:10:23]
But yeah, and then this morning I mean that wasn't, that was honest. Like that's what I thought this morning. I was like you know what no, I miss her. And I'm going to tell her that I miss her. So, I sent her a text and I was like you know I was like, like every other morning lately. You know, I woke up thinking about you and I was like it's, you know, it's a welcome trend, you know. I put two little hearts and I sent it. That's—I don't know how much. That's pretty honest. You know. I don't know.
THERAPIST: So, then maybe also in edge of what you're describing then is protecting yourself, scared.
CLIENT: I'm scared.
THERAPIST: Not just including yourself with the texting.
CLIENT: No, no. No. No. No. I'm scared. It's all protecting myself. I'm being myself with her. But then what's happening is like Friday and Saturday I was just so happy. I just didn't want to ruin anything. You know what I mean? I was like okay, we're good. You know. I said have a good trip. She landed there safely. Let's just chill and also I was like yeah, she just got there with her family whatever. I was like, it's all good. I know you're there. I heard from you. Like I'm just, I thought those were very healthy moments, actually. It was good. There's no need to over text. It's we're good. You know, so I think all of that happened was yesterday. [00:11:42]
One I felt really bad because I did forget for a moment. I have a really weird short term memory sometimes. Like it's not good. I, again, momentarily forgot that her father had passed away. So, I was like how are your folks? And luckily I said how are your folks, you know. I said what the fuck. So, that was one. And then it was like oh, but I hope my text doesn't seem kind of distant or something. You know like, because all I said was how's it going so far? How are your folks? But even that, then wasn't—but what am I? How is that distant? I'm texting her and asking her how things are going.
It's insanity. I'm fucking insane. I mean what am I supposed to do? Put like douche emoticons? Like what? I'm asking someone how they're doing. Obviously, I'm, I'm a lunatic. That's just—
THERAPIST: You're very much original (ph) and being honest.
CLIENT: Yeah. Yeah. I just, yeah, I think I'm just really scared that. I'm scared first of all that I like her so much. And then I'm scared that if, if it doesn't work out, I'm just, it's just going to suck, like bad. [00:12:52]
And three, like I'm just sick and tired that this kind of stuff makes me feel this way. You know. And it's a beautiful day. It's like look at me, man. I, I get to come here on a fucking Monday. I don't have to worry about work. Like, I mean it's getting really annoying to not be able to just—. You know, because I was thinking like it's really is maddening and this is why I can't get shit done. It's not ADD. It's nothing like that. You know. Like that. I can't get shit done today. It's not going to happen. I'm going to—until I hear from her. This is what I'm, I'm just going to be kind of going through some kind of motion, but I'm not going to be doing any actual productive work, you know. And that's, that's maddening, you know, like, that's—. [00:13:57]
THERAPIST: It's just the part of it where the attachment disorder becomes so clear. So, that, you know, like the little kid who is insecurely attached.
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: When parents aren't there. When mommy's not there. He's very preoccupied with when she's coming back? When's she coming back? When is she coming back? Scared.
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: Instead of confidently knowing she's coming back.
CLIENT: Oh, yeah.
THERAPIST: So, I'm going to play this today. It sounds like you get in that place where you're just preoccupied by when is she coming back? So, you can't actually have your mind, your play, your creativity, your being in the moment—
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: —even when she's not there. [00:15:38]
CLIENT: Then I was like oh, I'll tell her a white lie or something. I mean this is how fucked up it is. I was like I'll tell her, I'll tell her that oh, somehow I didn't get your text. The one that she sent Saturday night. Or, or I was like or I'll say oh, I had a really stressful weekend. What the fuck am I talking about? I didn't have a stressful—I had a great weekend. Partly because I was thinking about her. Why would I lie? Like why? Fuck. [00:16:08]
THERAPIST: It's the scramble inside to try to secure the attachment again. Only, it's not broken. That's what you don't know. You know. I think we must be getting to know something about what was going on in your mind as a little kid left home by yourself. When your parents were gone. Especially when your mom was gone. How alone and how disorganized and how scared even. Like, you know, where is she? When is she coming back? Who's here for me? Why have they left? You wanted a beige carpet and your stomach. Your mind was your only company then. [00:17:37]
Whatever you're feeling now, it's okay.
CLIENT: I don't know. Just sad. [00:18:41]
It's just like, you know, I feel really sad and I kind of felt angry too. I feel like what the fuck. Like I don't even know this girl that well. You know, and like I'm so dependent on. Like, what the fuck. I mean, she's great, but I mean, what, what—. And then I'm angry because I know it has nothing to do with her. It has to do with all the stuff we're talking about and that makes me angry because then I'm like, you know, I'm just fucked. You know, like, I just—. So, then that, of course, then that makes me feel like well, nothing's going to work out. You know. Like I'm just screwed. Which I know is not true, but it makes, it's just what it feels like. [00:19:50]
Which then in turn makes me feel like, that's that feeling. I feel like there are other people. Like see they all think like yeah, of course, then why would she be with me? She's cooler than me. There's something more stable and put, well put together about her. So, why would she? You know what I mean? Like that's, that's where my mind starts going. It's just unbelievable. [00:20:17]
Then I get (laughter) and then I get angry because I'm like yeah, either later today. I don't know at some point I'm going to hear from her and I'm going to immediately feel better. And then I'm going to be like what the fuck. What? You know, it's like this roller coaster of insanity. Of just like, like you said, like just bouts of crazy insecurity about thinking this person is somehow—I mean really when you think of it, regardless of whether it's a text or whatever it might be. Whether she's leaving late at night from my—basically, the idea that I have somewhere is that in some moment she's suddenly going to be like oh, yeah, I don't like this guy. That's really what I'm saying right? [00:21:13]
I'm like. So, Saturday night because she didn't hear back from. Perturbed. So, she's like this guy's an asshole. He didn't get, you know. He didn't say sorry about my flight or whatever. Fuck him. You know what I mean? Like that's insane. Some people might do that. I think if they like you have like a one night stand or you know what I mean? Like, you're really, kind of—but not that, you know. Right?
THERAPIST: Yeah. I mean I don't, I'm just thinking about how you've probably lived with that feeling in any relationship your whole life.
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: That at any moment this could be the same way.
CLIENT: Yeah. Yeah.
THERAPIST: Pushing yourself away from me.
CLIENT: I think that's my only regret with Samantha. I think because what happened there was it was the first time ever I got exactly what I wanted in my mind. In my fantasy, you know. And because everything else was so fucked up and because I wasn't where I am now, that's what happened. Every minute I was worried that that was going to go away. That's, that's my only regret I have with that. Because I feel like that could have gone differently if I was who I am now, but I was just like whatever, you know. If I played it a little bit cooler, but I couldn't because I was constantly, you know. [00:22:44]
Like when I look back on that I was just like, I really was like a little kid. You know. I was like a teenage boy, like gaga over some girl. And, of course, that's kind of unattractive and or even if it's not. It's not that, if, if nothing else, it's just kind of off putting when it's just the beginning. The first few months of a relationship. I mean, the test you suck. You know, especially when one person is completely icy. You know, that's not going to work. But anyway, I don't know. It's, but what I'm saying is yeah, you're right. Every one of those relationships, even when they're crazy and it shouldn't work anyway. But it's still it's been this like oh I found something close to my fantasy. So, now I'm constantly worried that it's just going to, you know, disappear. [00:23:46]
THERAPIST: I'm wondering what got you to feel then was this is how well I think about myself. You know, like that I'm so anxious that it could disappear at any second, right? That says something about how you feel about you.
CLIENT: Right.
THERAPIST: Rather than assuming that of course it's going to stick around. If it doesn't work out, you know—.
CLIENT: Wait. What?
THERAPIST: In other words, what you've describe as having felt like a, an adolescent boy. You know or gaga. Is it showing, is it showing Samantha how you felt about yourself inside?
CLIENT: Oh, I see.
THERAPIST: You know what I mean?
CLIENT: That, that—.
THERAPIST: That you actually felt like she could be gone and never call her.
CLIENT: Oh, you're saying, you're saying that what might drive people away is that they see that?
THERAPIST: Yeah.
CLIENT: Yeah. Yeah.
THERAPIST: Or is it she may seem—.
CLIENT: Yeah. Someone that's so like vulnerable and kind of insecure. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Which doesn't help because then you constantly—that's the problem here. I'm so, first of all, I'm not, I'm not remembering that I'm a different person. But I'm so worried about that.
THERAPIST: Yeah.
CLIENT: That that's something that's going on. I'm just constantly like, you know. [00:25:05]
THERAPIST: You're so much more aware of that.
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: And sort of monitoring it, but it also, the feelings are still there and that's what's, I think that's what you're saying. It's getting so frustrating.
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: Why does all this feeling come out?
CLIENT: Yeah. Yeah. Yeah, because when you feel like that, that's what happens. You feel like well why does he even want to be with me? I'm an insecure loser. That's the problem. You know. It doesn't translate to well everybody's insecure. And she's probably very insecure. You know, she's probably thinking the same thing. I'm falling for this guy or whatever and I don't know. You know. Who knows? You know. But, yeah, it's just, I don't know.
THERAPIST: Or else she had parents who were more interested in who she was and loved her unconditionally who she was and isn't as insecure.
CLIENT: Right.
THERAPIST: You know.
CLIENT: Right.
THERAPIST: I mean it could be, I—.
CLIENT: Yeah. Yeah. Yeah.
THERAPIST: It's because of something you were deprived of by them.
CLIENT: Yeah, but see the problem with that is that doesn't. I mean that's a problem with that, but in terms of like the situation, it's neither here nor there. Because like well, what do I do? You know what I mean? I don't have a relationship or I, or I have to tell them that hey listen, just so we're clear, I was fucked when I was younger. So, you might notice sometimes I'm old like an open wound. [00:26:29]
You know like how do you? You know.
THERAPIST: It's not going to go away today.
CLIENT: That's what I'm saying.
THERAPIST: Yeah.
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: Like it doesn't mean it can't shift over time in here.
CLIENT: Well, yeah. I know that, but—.
THERAPIST: I don't know if you do know that. Because I think sometimes it feels like well, this is my fate.
CLIENT: Well, I, no, no. I think when I say that I think what I mean is like yeah, of course, over time this might improve, but—.
THERAPIST: The relationship right now?
CLIENT: Yeah. Yeah, that I'm just going to be alone, you know. It's very, very frustrating. Just—. [00:27:40]
It's hard when like intellect, like I can't seem to, to disconnect the, the reality from the what's in my, you know. That's driving me crazy now. Now that I see things. It's like I'm not giving her any signs that I'm insecure. It's the opposite. I'm like, you know. But, it's like I'm letting it eat away at just me. Like I'm, I'm just being stoic about it now. You know what I mean? Like I'm not showing it in any way, but—.
THERAPIST: You should really (ph). You'll never know what it feels like to have—.
CLIENT: Shitty.
THERAPIST: To talk about this here.
CLIENT: It sucks. Because out there I'm doing a great job. You know. Like, I had a great weekend. I, I think about her, but I'm not, I'm not dying to text her. I'm not. I don't want to, you know. But, but yeah. I mean that, to—. Especially after yesterday. At least like feeling just like totally came out. And then now in my mind I'm like okay, now I have to be careful. Because now, you know, I can't get in touch with her. You know. I sent her a text last night. Told her I missed her today. I can't do anything. Now I can't. It would just be too much. You know, like and so now I know that now it's just torture. Now until hear from her. It, it's just going to be—it is what it is. I'm just going to be passing the time somehow until I hear from her. Nightmare. [00:30:00]
You know it also think it makes me angry because it's like again I don't see my own awesomeness. You know what I mean? Like, it that, it's driving me, that's madness. I should, I should be—if I was any—if my mentality was any different, I would be the cockiest asshole there ever was. You know what I mean? I'm a 40 year old dude. I look great for a 40 year old dude. I've got shit loads of talent. I'm a nice guy, but I'm also a fun a guy. Like I'm all these things and yet it, this equation, it's like I don't exist. That stuff doesn't exist. That's fucking maddening. Like, I can't connect the dots to the same girl I was fucking the shit out of in my apartment all these days that we've been hanging out. So, is that not the same girl? You know what I mean? Like now she's sitting there and going that guy that fucked the shit out of me, I love, I had a great time all those times. Yeah, suddenly I don't like that guy. [00:31:09]
That, that's, I mean if that things like that do happen. If it happens she's insane. I mean, that's about her, not about me. You know what I mean? But, I can't connect those fucking dots in my gut. I can connect them up here. Well, actually, maybe I can't connect them up here. I don't know.
THERAPIST: Yeah, you can't hold on to that other side of you. It's like—.
CLIENT: It's just her. I mean. I don't know.
THERAPIST: So, and so here's the moment where you'll be able to find that side emotionally, right?
CLIENT: Yeah, but see now, reading in to it. It's a smiley face. It says everything's going great here. Now, now I'm going to read in to that. See. And I sent her a card. I said I miss you and then I said I'm thinking about you. She didn't say anything about me. Just a smiley face and everything's going great here.
THERAPIST: It's cooler than your response?
CLIENT: Is it?
THERAPIST: You don't know what that means? You don't that means she's insecure. You don't know if it means she's distracted. You don't know if that means she's less in to it. There's a certainty in you that it means she's, she's, that's it, she's gone. [00:32:31]
CLIENT: I don't know.
THERAPIST: But you were just talking about (inaudible at 00:32:45) right? I think another way of thinking about this is that it's kind of these two sides of yourself are very dissociated from each other. It's a dissociated self-state you get in to. That you get drawn in to that part of yourself. When you really have feelings for someone. And that side of yourself is a really, really, negative, negative self-image like. It's one kind of a caricature of the kinds of feelings about yourself that could be in that place that must have been stirring lying by yourself on the beige rug in North Carolina that forgets. That doesn't know the other side of you that you sometimes can feel. It, but it exists over here with a wall between you that is accomplished and successful and talented and, and is loved by lots of different people in his life. That those don't have anything to do with each other. Sometimes you get brought, brought back to a childhood mental state and it's hard the know anything else. Because I think then you didn't. I don't think you felt this way about yourself as a kid.
CLIENT: Which way? [00:34:05]
THERAPIST: In a positive way.
CLIENT: Oh. Well. Nope.
THERAPIST: This state that you're describing right now with her is all you had and you could go through the emotions and pretend on the outside with social exchanges, but I think this is where you lived as a child. In your head.
CLIENT: I don't know. And you're right. It's like making me, I, my normal thing would be like oh, that's awesome. Like how's your mom? How's your brother? You know. But something in me is just like, you know, don't put yourself out there, you know. But that's not, that's not healthy. I mean like now going to the other extreme. You know, it's like just because you're asking someone how things are going or you're telling them you're thinking about them does not showing them that you're some insecure loser. That's telling them you care. You know. [00:35:57]
THERAPIST: Knowing that your also right at the same time that showing you her care over and over if she's not showing you that back over and over.
CLIENT: Yeah, well that's true. That's true.
THERAPIST: Right.
CLIENT: No, what I guess what I'm saying was like, for example, in this case, like, yeah, okay she didn't tell me she woke up thinking about me, but what, you know, it's, it's not, I mean a smiley face and everything's going great. Here's a perfectly nice text. Like what. And so if she really was not going to reciprocate I just wouldn't hear from her or whatever. You know. But like, I, at some point I got to let go of the idea that just because I say something to you, you say the exact same thing to me. You know what I mean? It doesn't work like that. You know. Just like I didn't to her, right? So, and yet I can't stop thinking about her. It's not, you know. So, yeah, I don't know. [00:37:01]
THERAPIST: So, you could say glad to hear it?
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: You know, say you're responding, but you're not.
CLIENT: Right. Right. Right. Sorry. Exactly. Exactly. Or maybe you're right. Maybe it's at some point I just call her and be like you know what I just wanted to call and say hi, you know. People don't do that anymore, but maybe that'd be a nice surprise, you know. Oh, the whole thing is fucking juvenile. Yeah or it's sort of asking a question I can be like oh that's great. I hope you're having fun with your mom and brother. You know.
THERAPIST: You know maybe then don't expect a response.
CLIENT: Exactly. Exactly. [00:38:00]
THERAPIST: Actually, would be aware of her to—.
CLIENT: Yeah. Yeah. Exactly. Just like how—
THERAPIST: You get to be yourself.
CLIENT: How happy—I'm happy to hear and I'm also acknowledging that it would make me feel better that she knows I know that her dad's not around. You know, her mom and her brother. Wow. It's all idiocy. It's the more and more like I get in to this, it, I cannot believe how absurd this all is. You know. And yet, like it's just so sad.
THERAPIST: Do you know as it's happening that it's not really about her? Like you know you're trying with this today.
CLIENT: Yeah. Like I do know. I think the problem is I've wanted—of course I know, but this is what's happening now. You know what I mean? That's, that's what I'm trying to balance. Yeah, I know, I clearly know that it's not about her. Like, I know that if I didn't have all these other issues this would just be like whatever. You know what I mean? It'd be like oh, okay I heard from her or didn't hear from her. I'll hear from her later. And I did. You know, whatever. [00:39:11]
Yeah, I, I don't know any guys that over analyze texts like this. I mean they just wouldn't. You know. I'm generalizing completely. But, you know, I think it's, that's, again, that's what I mean by just that makes me feel like I'm stupider. You know, it makes me feel not very manly. You know.
THERAPIST: It's so hard when becoming self-aware of something immediately comes to something to beat yourself up even more with.
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: It's like there's not, there's no space open enough to be interested in what you're becoming aware of without judging yourself.
CLIENT: Right.
THERAPIST: Judgment immediately.
CLIENT: Yeah. Yup.
THERAPIST: I mean the way you described it earlier. Well, that makes me hate this because of this and then that makes me hate this because of this and.
CLIENT: Yeah. Yeah.
THERAPIST: There's not—it's like a cascading chain of self-hatred rather than just positive, like that's almost exciting that you could realize this is about something.
CLIENT: Yeah. I mean, I do feel that too. Like I felt that way all weekend or I've been feeling that way outside of here. I'm like oh, wow. Like I'm in a social setting. I'm totally being myself. Everything's going great. Oops I just heard from 'so and so'. That's awesome. Put it right back in my pocket. I don't need to like immediately, you know, like that does feel good. I, I think the issue is—.
THERAPIST: Not in here, maybe? [00:40:39]
CLIENT: Right. That, that here I've been just really getting in to it and that makes me feel sad and frustrated and whatever. But then with that the more I get in to things with her, I realize oh my God, I haven't liked someone like this in many years. But, I, I, you know, I feel very vulnerable and I'm very aware of what, what's happened in the past and I don't—I just want to play it cool. And just, you know, like it's just all these different things. You know.
THERAPIST: You know, this may seem strange, but those could be feelings that are actually stirring here too. That as you say more. As you know more. As you start to kind of reveal and expose more here. Even here you could feel like oh I'm being too vulnerable. I want to—.
CLIENT: Yeah. I do. I mean, yeah, I do feel that way in here. Yeah. That's happened from the beginning. Yeah. And I still like I can't get away from that yet. As long as I don't, I feel kind of, like I'm just being a pussy. You know. That is hard.
THERAPIST: And if you feel that here, that could kind of amplify outside situations and actually be even more involved here. But you're being more real here. [00:42:09]
CLIENT: But, wait. What? You mean like when I feel like, like last night when I broke out in the cold sweat it's really because I'm being so vulnerable here. Yeah. Well, yeah, that I figured. I mean that's the thing with this. Right? Like the e-mail. When I'm out there I have to be careful because I, I do feel much more like a bundle of raw nerves. You know. Is that, is that what you mean?
THERAPIST: Yeah.
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: Or like a pussy. What is, what's that? Who is that or what's that?
CLIENT: What do you mean?
THERAPIST: I mean, I, what does that mean to you here?
CLIENT: Just not very masculine and stoic and just able to be sure of yourself regardless of the situation. You know.
THERAPIST: Like that's being a man almost?
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: Is that your image of your father?
CLIENT: I guess. It's just a general image. Yeah. Yeah. Maybe it is that. Yeah. I don't know. Or it's just what I want to be. You know. It's like just someone that you take the good with the bad. And, you know, you just don't have extreme reactions. You know. I don't know. [00:43:37]
THERAPIST: So, maybe it means being like the women in your family?
CLIENT: No. No. No. No. No. Like, I, like, you know, I mean, that's a fantasy too. What I'm saying.
THERAPIST: I'm not saying it's actually is like being like them, but it feels that way. No?
CLIENT: No.
THERAPIST: Extremes?
CLIENT: Oh, the extremes. Maybe. Maybe. Yeah. But the man thing, I mean, I'm thinking of like a Steve McQueen type thing. You know what I mean? You know, where like, you know, I always imagine Steve McQueen like just doesn't. I don't see any, I never imagine anything ruffling him. You know what I mean? Yeah, he's kind of an alcoholic and he had some issues, but even that is romantic, kind of. You know what I mean? Even that is a manly kind of problem to have. It's all nonsense, but, you know. Or like Hemmingway or you know. It's just that kind of tough guy. Like love me. Don't love me. Text me. Don't text me. Fuck you. And I, there is something that's sad for them kind of. One killed himself and the other one drank himself to death, but—.
THERAPIST: Do you hear who you describing yourself who you want to be like and how it worked for them? [00:45:04]
CLIENT: Well.
THERAPIST: They probably felt the same pressure you felt. It's such a stereotype what it is to be a man.
CLIENT: Yeah. I know it is. I know. Yep. Yeah, and the very people I'm describing are not very lovable. You know one's very handsome and the other one is an amazing writer, but that's about it. There's nothing truly lovable about them.
THERAPIST: So, Wednesday at 1:20.
CLIENT: Okay. Thanks. See you.
END TRANSCRIPT
