TRANSCRIPT OF AUDIO FILE:
______________________________________________________________________________
BEGIN TRANSCRIPT:
THERAPIST: Okay. Good morning.
CLIENT: Good morning. I've spent the last 24 hours with my dad so really there is absolutely nothing that you can do that would be more chaotic. (both laugh) That's a typical visit with papa—equal parts crushing anxiety and really, really good talks. Yesterday more of the crushing anxiety; today more of the really good talks, this morning anyway. He just makes me so anxious. Yesterday we had gone down to the Corner and looked around the area –books, medicines, had dinner and were directed back. As we were parking I just said, "I want to say this in the most loving way possible, but I need to not be in the car when you're driving it ever again." (laughs) He was just like, "Okay." He took it really well. A couple of minutes later I said, "I'm really sorry. I hope I didn't hurt your feelings." He was like, "No, no, that's fine. Well you did hurt my feelings, but sometimes the truth hurts." [00:01:41] He talked in kind of a joking, bantering way. I don't know that I think that they should take his license away from him, but I'm already a little bit anxious as a back-seat driver. I get anxious when somebody else is driving and he's a terrible driver—he's terrible. He doesn't signal. (chuckles) We were trying to figure out how to get home yesterday. I've never driven that route. Take a bus and I've had people drive me home occasionally, but it's always been like one in the morning. We ended up all the way down this Street in the wrong direction, came back, you know. Nothing is in a straight line here so you just have to figure it out; and we figured it out actually without very much trouble. But he, I think literally, just cannot only talk about directions for the 20 minutes it takes to get home. It is just not possible for him. He would be like, "Oh—look at that church." And I'd be like, "Look at the road. Look at the person crossing the street with a stroller." (both laugh) So I had a really rough night last night. (crying) [00:03:26] He's really good about it. He's just very accepting of me being the way I am emotionally, but he also still does all of the things that set me off and he's not going to stop doing that. I feel like he's getting worse as he ages or, since the stroke six or some years ago now, I feel like he's more distractible or he started [ ] (inaudible at 00:04:19) but that's a terrifying thought for me. Your parents can age? God, I don't want to go there. He was born in '53.
THERAPIST: Early 60's.
CLIENT: He says he just feels like he always has. He's still incredibly strong. Last summer, we ended up in a turkey spot on the way back from a trip. His motor died as we were heading back [ ] (inaudible at 00:05:06) Anyway, it was actually quite a dangerous situation. It was rough water and the motor died right as we were trying to get back to the harbor but still far enough away that there was nobody around, nowhere. It was in the middle of nowhere up in the Bay, so it was government land/park, in a 15-ft outboard motorboat and the waves washed us onto a rock, which is how people capsize. Waves just kept over and over and over, and he jumped out. We all pitched in but he basically just picked up the boat. Something about it; maybe that I just notice more. I don't know how much of it is me noticing more because I don't live my life the way that he does anymore, and how much of it is him getting worse. He is just entirely unpredictable—not entirely—you can predict that he's going to do awkward things all the time. (laughs) [00:06:37] I get so anxious. It's like herding cats all the time. (voice breaks) Really, all I want to do is just sit down and talk. I think it always takes him a little while to realize that people want to listen to what he has to say, aside from work. He's got some grandiosity there, too, particularly as it relates to his work and his parish. He's always been the only priest there, which I think makes a difference. Yes, this morning I just kind of got up and talked to him before breakfast and he got up not much earlier than I did. Broke his china bowl that I had. (sniffles) I have a little china bowl that I put soap in and he broke it, which I got about two weeks ago because James broke the other one. (both laughing) I'm starting to think maybe the problem is that I have something breakable in the bathroom. (both laugh) I really like it, so I'm going to get another one. I kind of heard him breaking it and I was like, "Naaah. I'm going to go back to sleep." We just talked and then make over here, sat in the parking spot and talked. It took so long to parallel park. [00:08:45] You know when you watch people and you're like, "Don't. You know you have to keep cutting the wheel over if you want to get closer to the curb. You've got plenty of space. I'm telling you you've got space." I don't know what it is. I guess his mind is just not on it or something. I feel like I just need to shepherd him around and I don't know where that comes from but that's always what I end up doing for him and he's a grown man. (chuckles) I'm just trying to minimize the trail of disaster in his wake. [00:09:49]
THERAPIST: I see.
CLIENT: He's been in so many car accidents.
THERAPIST: Oh, really?
CLIENT: Yeah. Always minor, but every two or three years. (laughs)
THERAPIST: Oh, wow.
CLIENT: He was showing me pictures. He just got back from a vacation, he and Joanne. They go every year to part of work with the church and they also just really like it there. They like the people. They have a group of friends there. And he was showing me, flipping through the pictures of everything and it was in descending order and then I came across a picture of his car. The headlight was smashed. I was like, "What is this?" He was like, "This is the car I just sold to Amanda." He just bought a car and sold the old car to Amanda and was like, "You can either buy this one or the other one and she wanted the car that she had been driving that has like 350,000 miles on it." [00:11:04]
THERAPIST: Oh, my God.
CLIENT: Well it's a Volvo. A Volvo with that many miles on it versus a Ford Escort with only 80,000 miles but it's old, like a '95. I had a Taurus a few years ago that was a disaster, so Amanda wanted to go with the car here. We know what's going to go wrong. He was like, "Oh, yeah. I smashed the headlight the day before I gave it to her." (laughs) Neither of them had told me about this part, even though both of them had been calling me about the car situation for weeks. (both laugh) (pause) (sniffling) I do a lot of keeping it together around them.
THERAPIST: I guess so. [00:12:36]
CLIENT: (crying) What do you do? Hopefully something different than what I have been doing, which is keep together and then cry a lot. (crying) He's very good when I can't keep it together around him, but I never can get to the point of where I don't have to, you know? Where within the first half hour of being around him, I'm not just basically a nervous wreck. If we didn't go anywhere, that would be easier. He really likes to go places. He's like, "Let's take an adventure. Let's go on an adventure." That's what he used to say whenever we got lost, which was like every other day. (laughs) We're on an adventure, which is actually a really good attitude towards life, I think. [00:15:05]
THERAPIST: Well it seems to work for him.
CLIENT: It really works for him. Maybe it works for him. It works well enough, anyway. (voice breaking) I'm really tired. 
THERAPIST: Yeah. And you really can't protect yourself from him, I guess, very well at all. I don't mean like you have a veiling, just whatever the reason. I just mean there's no protecting yourself from him.
CLIENT: I think there's no middle bar. This summer, James and I took a vacation together instead of going on vacation with them and he said, "I think that was exactly the right decision." Really supportive, (sniffles) even though [ ] (inaudible at 00:16:19) so when I draw lines, he respects them. He really tries actively to support me, but yeah, I can't really. (crying) (pause) [00:17:46] He makes me feel like my world is just completely out of control—everything in it. I think of all of the other things in my life that are out of control.
THERAPIST: The metaphor that comes to mind is that you're so vigilant and so much having to keep your eye on the ball all the time, like he doesn't even know he's at the ballpark. [00:18:19]
CLIENT: (laughs) (crying) He's just not careful. He's careful in retrospect. We were at the bookstore yesterday and I bought these books which are a collection of this author, Dear Sugar, an advice column, really just a collection of essays that are just incredibly beautiful and mean a lot to me personally. I wasn't going to buy it because I can't afford to buy it this week. It's just like "I need to buy this." So I bought it and I was like, "Yeah, I got this. It's an advice columnist." [00:19:44] And he said, "Ha, ha, ha, ha, an advice columnist." And then he saw my face was like, "No, this is serious," and immediately he said, "Oh, okay." He's really aware, in my perspective—or aware of me but selectively aware? I don't know. It's like he knows that I work differently than he does, and I think he thinks that I work differently from Amanda and Jason, which is probably true if the honest truth be known. But he does not quite know what that is. I don't know. Yesterday I said, "I'm sorry. I've been really anxious today and I don't know why." And he said, "Oh, you know. Let's be honest. Visits from family are really hard," (laughs) which is really characteristic of him to say, "Yes, it is hard." [00:21:07]
THERAPIST: But it doesn't sound like he has any idea why or how it is hard for you. Like you're sitting there in the passenger's seat like this and he has no idea somehow.
CLIENT: Yeah. And I don't know whether that's because he doesn't know at all or whether it's because he doesn't feel like he can change it and so he doesn't, because he said, "Yeah, sure." I don't know why he doesn't know. I don't know how to tell him. [00:22:10]
THERAPIST: Maybe the thing that's much more relevant and how it works for him or how exactly you should tell him about it is that you've lived with this your whole life and it's—certainly I don't know about it but—it has such a huge impact on you.
CLIENT: It's gotten harder in the immediate moment since I moved out—like the less time I spend with him, the more concentratively difficult it is, if that makes sense. I used to be able to just kind of roll with it for the most part. But I think a lot of that was also that I used to just think there was no way I could have control over my life. [00:23:15]
THERAPIST: Yeah, I was sort of thinking it makes sense to me that it feels that way if I'm going to take something [ ] (inaudible at 00:23:24) that was incredibly difficult the whole time and that it was much more familiar and sort of part of the routine. 
CLIENT: It is certainly that.
THERAPIST: But I could be wrong. I'm just going to take some convincing, though.
CLIENT: I don't believe it enough to try to convince you. (laughs) 
THERAPIST: You're so careful with both your parents. 
CLIENT: (voice breaking) I don't know how not to be.
THERAPIST: Sure. [00:24:20]
CLIENT: (crying) I'm thinking about this might be the last time I got into a yelling fight with papa, a fight where he yelled anyway. I don't know what I learn yelling. I'm not really a yeller. 
THERAPIST: I remember that you really hate yelling.
CLIENT: Yeah. It was about three years ago after my first year at William &amp; Tanya. Amanda and papa and Jason and I went on a whitewater canoeing trip, and papa has done a lot of whitewater canoeing. He's real good. We used to live near—I can't remember the name—but over in West Texas it's famous for its whitewater. I think he used to canoe with his brother in college so he really knows his stuff. He was teaching us and we didn't have all of the equipment—like we didn't have floats, the things that basically can make your canoe light enough so that it's safe to take some of the bigger rapids. [00:25:59]
THERAPIST: So there are floats that you put on the canoe itself?
CLIENT: Yeah. They go on and inside the whole canoe so that most of the canoe is taken up with—just like air bags. Then there's like whitewater canoes, and ours were more kind of multi-purpose and battered and old. So we were up north, not where we usually go, up in a State Park. We did some pretty big water. It was a really good trip. I think I left after the first weekend, the three of them went on for another week. I think it was really hard for Amanda after I left because that was kind of at the peak of—papa just really didn't do anything on the camping trips—he was coaching us in whitewater and that is what he did. He did that really well, but the cooking and stuff—and Amanda and I both really like to camp cook. It's how we both learned how to cook, actually. We're very adventurous. Sometimes it's hard to eat afterwards, but most of the time it ends up being a main event. Jason wasn't quite old enough to get to the point where he realized that he needed to do stuff, too, so he wasn't doing anything either.
THERAPIST: How old was he? [00:27:27]
CLIENT: He would have been about 17 then. He is the youngest. It was more like he'd been allowed to get away with it for a long time.
THERAPIST: Yeah, I'm thinking at 17 you would have known.
CLIENT: Oh, yeah. Jason's been different. You know, Jason's the baby. If he'd been on a trip with people in his age group, he would have been the leader, or a leader; but he was just kind of slacking off. And he was being a real brat to Amanda during the second week. That was hard. Sometime in the third or fourth day, I can't remember what we were fighting about but it just came to mind that the last time that we were really angry at each other and it was really hard. It's really hard. And I have a really hard time not being a coward. (chuckles) It's as though the way the dynamic works is Jason flees the scene and that part of the fight. Amanda speaks for both her and I, and I always side with Amanda, even when in retrospect I'm like, "I'm not really sure whether I was on Amanda's side," but I always side with her. [00:29:14] As in most situations there was blame on both sides, or responsibility on both sides. (voice falters) I just feel sick to my stomach; just like so scared when that happens. And I feel so guilty, so bad. Paradoxically, I think because I'm so scared, (sniffles) when in those situations, when there are fights or when papa is really out of line, when I say something, he really listens. It's like, "Well if Tanya thinks this enough to speak up, then there's really something going on," (chuckles) which I guess is nice. You know, I've gotten 100 percent better at saying what I need over the years because I started at zero. (laughs) (sniffles)
THERAPIST: Much of the feel at all for what that fight was like, which I mention because . . . 
CLIENT: We've talked about it before. 
THERAPIST: Oh, we did? 
CLIENT: About him yelling when I was a kid. The pieces clearly didn't add up for him—well he said the pieces didn't add up. (laughs) It looks like they didn't add up even more than he was saying.
THERAPIST: Yeah. Which, in light of how clearly certainly you can commit lots of things, I'm attributing to something that makes it more difficult to convey, I mean something about your terror, probably.
CLIENT: Yeah. That is funny. Yeah I can't even remember if he was yelling or not, like whether or how much he was raising his voice; certainly much more intense, he'll swear, which he really doesn't usually. He'll occasionally swear if he's talking about something else that he's angry about. He's not actively angry about it. He'll be like, "That's fucking ridiculous," like to emphasize; but other than that I don't know. [00:34:01] In that moment, it feels like it's not necessarily that I'm a stranger to him, but I am somebody who he wants to hurt. It feels like that. I don't know. It feels like there is nothing I can do or say to stop him. That he's just pure anger and he's just going to keep being angry no matter what until everything in a 50-yard radius is demolished. It's not that he has ever been physically violent. The story I'm told is that he slapped Amanda's hand once when she was about two and after the look that she gave him he was like, "I'm never doing that again." I don't know if it was the look, but he was like, "Yeah, I did that once and that's not happening." Occasionally he'll hit things or throw whatever he had down to the ground. He's hard on [ ], (inaudible at 00:36:13) I guess. I guess since I've moved we haven't really fought much since I went to boarding school, or not that I remember, but the few times we have it feels like I'm seven again, like I'm a very, very small child and absolutely helpless. [00:37:02]
THERAPIST: This is the position that I keep having actually the more I listen to this is that you feel like a terribly anxious parent.
CLIENT: Yes. (laughs) (sniffles)
THERAPIST: With a child who is totally overwhelming and out of control. 
CLIENT: Yes. Except without the parental authority. (sniffles) (laughs)
THERAPIST: Yeah, I think that's part of the problem.
CLIENT: Yeah. I mean I do feel like whatever he does—certainly I noticed this yesterday in kind of trucking along with him—a lot of the errands we ran were ones I needed to run, but I certainly felt like anything he did I would be responsible for. If we got in a car, that would be on me. [00:38:19]
THERAPIST: Yeah, or you see your three-year-old plunge off into a crowd ahead of you in a mall or something like that, you're like, "Oh, Jesus." There's a jewelry store over here and a whole crowd of people he could get lost in and an escalator over there. [00:38:38]
CLIENT: I don't have kids. I don't know what that's like. (laughs) I can imagine.
THERAPIST: Yeah, I guess that's right. You'd be like, "Oh, shit," and jump down the elevator and plunge into a window. Is he going to grab something in the jewelry store?
CLIENT: He constantly perplexes and offends people because he really, really friendly with everybody in a way that people don't like. (laughs) Or some people really like it. Some people respond really well, but it's like, "What?" But then he's also a really difficult; like whenever we're in a store, I think he's a very difficult customer to deal with. Not because he's being snippy with the person, but because his [sick directions and wants] (inaudible at 00:39:30) and doesn't actually knows what he wants but he knows he wants something. (laughs) It's like trying to translate. (laughs) [00:39:47] We went in the bookstore and he's talking and flew through Cambodia, "There's a book about Cambodia that was published recently." And somebody was like, "Can I help you with anything?" and I said, "There's a book about Cambodia that was published recently." (both laugh) And yeah, I guess I like that. [00:40:11]
THERAPIST: Maybe I'm not conveying this very well, but I don't mean just like a parent who is a bit overwhelmed whose kids are really giving him the run-around. They're kind of tired and a little anxious or the kid runs into the toy store and could knock something over and you're kind of worried. That's one thing. I think you're much more profoundly anxious than that. I think a better way to put it would be like a 12-year-old mother of a four-year old who's like way in over her head and knows there is this huge and crucial responsibility in looking after the child and the world around it, but just doesn't have the authority, doesn't have the maturity, doesn't have the capacity yet. Something more like that. [00:41:16]
CLIENT: Yeah. I think I told you when I last visited James's parents I got sick and had to stay there and James's mom just took care of me. It was totally unprecedented.
THERAPIST: You mean in your life? 
CLIENT: Yeah. In that physical way. Papa has taken care of me emotionally at times in that way. Just sitting down and talking.
THERAPIST: It sounds like he can be pretty related when he's there.
CLIENT: When he's there, he's really there. And like I said, he's incredibly wise. The best analogy I can think of, he's like Garrison Keillor at his best. I don't know if you listen to Garrison Keillor. [00:42:17]
THERAPIST: A little bit.
CLIENT: I grew up listening to Garrison Keillor because papa loves Garrison Keillor. But it's just really getting the fundamental things and [he's saying, "If people are a mess, tell people are wonderful and you love them."] (inaudible at 00:42:27) Yeah. (voice breaks) I just feel so helpless. But also like, I feel so helpless as though I can't be helpless. I can't afford to. But I don't know where to go. [00:43:10] (long pause)
THERAPIST: It's crucial that somehow things be somewhat in your control and it's just impossible.
CLIENT: Yeah. I try too... it's worse when I'm depressed. When I'm well I'm just kind of like, "Well, I know that anytime I'm with papa it will be chaos and I kind of enjoy chaos at times and we'll just roll with that." If we were taking public transit the whole time, yesterday would have been entirely different, I think. But it's like he really could have killed somebody. He really could. [00:44:09]
THERAPIST: So this is an obvious and dumb question—why don't you drive? 
CLIENT: I'm afraid to drive in the city and, partly he just always heads for the driver's seat, even after yesterday. Maybe someday I should say, "Why don't I drive now?" 
THERAPIST: The reason I was smiling when you were saying if you're driving to the city 1) I can understand and 2) is just ironic that I know you'd probably be a lot more careful and defensive.
CLIENT: I think the weird thing about me and driving is on the way home from the family trip last year, papa drove and then when he got tired he said, "James, you take over." He never said, "Tanya, take over," and that made me so angry, so angry; but he finds it much easier to trust James as a driver than any of his children. I don't think I ever really brought that up.
THERAPIST: Like is it penis?
CLIENT: That's what I'm wondering. (laughs) Or the fact that he taught me how to drive, I could see that being anxiety related.
THERAPIST: As though he were only 16 and just learned to drive.
CLIENT: No. I'm a considerably better driver than you are at this point. Deal with it. I don't want to do that now. I'll deal with that later.
THERAPIST: Pissed off for now. Good luck with your move. Next week as usual. I'm out the following Monday because it's Labor Day.
END TRANSCRIPT
