<font size="4"><b>Chapter V</b></font>

At the approach of my nineteenth birthday, I left my
mother and the only home I had ever known. My mother's
love for me was, once again, questionable. Ambivalence
occupied the greater portion of my thinking:


"I love my mother, but I hate her for what she has
done to me."


Fear was my constant companion in the midst of unfamiliar
surroundings. I had taken what little money I had
and moved to Cleveland, Ohio. Regardless of all my emotional
complexities, the acquisition of certain respects and
motherly disciplines enabled me to repel, over a period
of time, complete character regression. When this ephemeral
period did arrive, it found my inner soul strongly
fortified.


Within my soul were dedications to truth, cleanliness,
and compassion. Without a doubt, my intelligence would
have perceived and co-ordinated my responses to other
basic principles. But circumstances prevented it. The principle

[p. <i>56</i>]

In view of my mind's condition and vulnerability to
degrading forces, I am, today, thankful for my mother's
inheritance of discipline and certain principles. For, in the
final analysis, I think that it was this that brought me
through.


The city of Cleveland afforded many excitements.
Beyond my scope of thinking were the pitfalls of filth and
squalor whose steaming mire spread itself over wide areas.
The stench of it polluted the better areas of the city. Its
viscosity made cleaning almost an impossibility for those
who touched it. In the little town of Woodlawn could be
found a similar element, but it was extremely diluted in
composition. The vices of Cleveland held a strange fascination
for me. I could not pull myself away.


In my newly-adopted home, I tried hard to proceed
along my road of dedicated success in a righteous and
healthy manner. But there was hardly room in the better
world for the uneducated, unskilled, and inexperienced.
The job that I managed to get at about thirty dollars a
week would not support my family-motivated plan.


The forces of vice held a strong attraction, and I felt
that in vice lay the answer to my "compulsive directives."
I proceeded and squandered my youth on the filthy elements
of "night life" and prostitutescommodities that are
plentiful in a city so big.


Within the merciless, ungodly circles of my chosen environment
lurked the infectious organic and bone-consuming
germs of syphilis and tuberculosis. Too, there were
the dope addicts, con artists, and alcoholics. They, I am
sure, had a better understanding of the "circles' " serpent
savagery. I thank God for my soul's fortification. If not for

[p. <i>57</i>]

Within our civilization of supposed science and culture,
tuberculosis and syphilis are among the leading contributors
of people who fill our institutions. General paralysis,
which is due to syphilis and which involves degenerative
changes of the cellular constructions of the brain
and spinal cord, comprises from 10 to 20% of the total
population of the people who occupy our mental innstitutions.
I need not mention the drastic existing incidence of
tuberculosis. It is a common catastrophe.


It is into this conglomeration of elemental pollution
that the unequipped and innocent step. The mention of
tuberculosis and syphilis, of course, is in reference to the
physical susceptibilities. There is still the degenerative
spiritual aspect.


To meet with a world of financial stress and strain, and
degrading ethics, is to meet with the threat of spiritual
regression. This is a world almost void of healthful elements
(physical and mental). Lack of culture and education
creates this world. The values of good living are
practically unthought of. Out of the filth and mire of its
existence come the sick, seeking and begging from the
educated and the cultured relief for their ills.


My feet had been firmly planted on this bog and there
was nowhere to gobut down. Like quicksand, these environmental
conditions slowly consume its victims, and
I was no exception.


After several disappointing experiences as a "cad" and
"panderer," I finally came to the conclusion that Cleveland
afforded me no great opportunities. I decided to leave.

[p. <i>58</i>]

My immediate needs for survival were now seemingly
more important than anything else. The pressures of my
fascinating world were forcing back the sufferings of my
past. They lay dormantlater to explode from beneath an
accumulating crust.


From Cleveland, I went to Detroit, where my success
as a panderer took a turn for the better. The money that
I proudly received from the many girls I had dealings with
I spent on cars and clothing in my attempt to reach
greater heights. I had a plan for success. It consisted of
getting enough money through illicit sources to go into
some kind of business; but my luck did not last. I was
soon to be stricken with the "infection of the mire."


I have many times since wondered where I might be
if certain events had not taken place. Today, thanks to the
sources responsible, I am physically well and enjoy good
mental health, but I cannot help but think of myself, if
not for the occurrence of certain events, as a pitifully sick
and haggard individual.


I slept by day, and stood proudly on the corners of
Detroit at night. I was a dying individual, both in the
physical and mental sense of the word. I was robbing
myself of nature's freshness and the vital ray of the day
and of what should be man's most cherished possessions
(principle and independence) at night. "There is little
room in the better world for the unskilled, uneducated
and inexperienced!" What was I to do? Where was I to
go? Downdowndown ! I was caught in a web of circumstances.
Surely not of my own making.


Finally, as if in mockery of my innocense, "the germ of
the mire" (syphilis) found its way into my bloodstream.
I was not aware of its omnipresence in my world of limited
activities. Its degenerative qualities brought about
the immediate need for treatment, and I was forced to

[p. <i>59</i>]

"Why? Why must this happen to me?" I asked. "Is
there no God of mercy?"


The demoniac germ seemingly thrived on the thought
of mercy. It began eating away at the cells and tissues of
my buccal cavity; and before its progress could be successfully
checked, it had eaten away half of my soft
palate. The pain and suffering were driving me mad. Into
the filing cabinet of my subconscious went another maddening
episode.


Four years had passed, and I had nothing to show for
my self-consuming efforts. Out of the recesses of my feverish
brain and memory came the fears .of failure. Stubborn
pride, a derivative of my defected ego, caused me practically
to sever ties with the people I had known. It could
be said that the acquisition of basic drives and motivations
had robbed me of the sensible purposes of living; I
was living to prove personal capabilities and not for the
ultimate aim of a peaceful and orderly spirit. As a layman
on the subject of psychology, I believe that I can safely
label the system of "living for the Joneses"without severe
criticism and complete disapproval of the experts
as "the robbing of the spirit." For, out of the habit of living
for social prestige and recognition comes the degradation
of principles.


The rigors of living were growing increasingly problematic
as I roamed the streets of Detroit in search of unearned
fortune and aided vice. In a desperate attempt
to ward off the miseries of failure, I was forced into unfamiliar
and frightening situations. I acted as "shill" for
the addicted sneak thief who boldly applied his trade. I
accompanied a mugger, waiting to pounce on some poor,
helpless victim. Want, fear, and pride were forcing back

[p. <i>60</i>]

After I had tried every scheme available to my limited
knowledge to support my parent-imposed ideas to "get
rich quick," success seemed an impossibility in Detroit.
My purposeful determination, which was basically parentmotivated,
made the acceptance of defeat a painful task.
The demanding forces of my ego drove me on. From city
to city I went, seeking substantiation of my hopeless
dreams.


After several months of traveling and searching, I
became weary and impatient. My nerves were becoming
extremely exacerbated. I had to stop somewhere. In the
thought of dying, I experienced temporary relief. The life
that I had partly chosen for myself, because of its repetition,
had become nerve-rackingly dull.


Friends of mine influenced me to test the possibilities
of success in Newark, New Jersey. But, for me, it seemed
there was no success. Life was no longer intriguing. The
pressures of living were forcing back my desires to live.
There was no rejuvenating force available to me, and life
or living was no longer important.


In a rat-and roach-infested tenement in Newark, as I
stared at the rotting wood of the floors and the dull, dirty
paper that covered the walls, the reality of myself as a
failure hit me. Feverishly, I searched my mind for a solution
to my nerve-entangled dilemma. Efforts at my biographical
retractions usually ended with my blaming
someone for my miserable predicament. There were times,
during those trancelike states of thought regression, that I

[p. <i>61</i>]

I frequently dreamed of comfort and security, and
later awakened to my musty, dismal surroundings. One
day, after the pressures of my predicament had forced
me into a state of mental agony, I decided to walk. I was
seeking some relief for my seemingly claustrophobic condition.
I felt as if the world were closing in upon me. A
few doors from where I lived on Washington Street, I
chose to pass the barber shop that I usually patronized. As
I approached the tall, dull window of its store front, I
experienced a strange sensation. I can best explain it as
a spiritual and emotional void. A powerful force from
within the shop seemed to pull me up to the window. It
was not my intention to stop, but I could not resist the
magnetism of the compelling force.


I stood at the window, staring at the man who occupied
the shop's only chair.


"He is paying particular attention to me," I thought to
myself and moved slowly on.


A few feet from the shop I came to an abrupt halt as
my feverish thoughts spun away.


"That man! He was sent by God to spy on me," I
thought suspiciously. "He was God!" That was my excited,
concluding thought.


I turned and raced back to stare into the window at
my merciful deliberator. The man had gone. It wasn't
until some years later that I learned I had suffered a
delusion.


The agony and anguish I suffered thereafter was unbearable.
Someone was to blame.


"That white man who pushed my head into the fountain,
he is to blame," I hatefully thought. "He caused me

[p. <i>62</i>]

Out of my knowledge of the subversive and seditious
elements of our society, I chose the word "Caucasian."
That was my cynical way of describing my tormentor.


My periods of regressive thoughts were now prolonged.
I sat for long stretches of time, sharpening with a
file, an old hunting knife, thinking of revenge. With each
stroke of the blade I made, it seemed that my thoughts of
revenge grew stronger. The rubbing of the steel seemed
to affect me strangely. In the thought of taking a life, I
felt honor. There was no rationalization.


"If a departure from reality is so extreme as to yield
to impulses, so powerful as to escape all inhibitions and
express themselves in chaotic disorganized fashion, without
regard to reality..." This is a partial definition of psychosis.
I had become psychotic.


My constant thoughts of revenge established in my
mind a savage ferocity. My persecution complex had motivated
the total feeling of hostility. Sleep had become
impossible.


"I must reap vengeance for all my sufferings," I told
myself.


My mind was obsessed with the desire to kill.


"I must kill! I must! Someone must pay," I told myself.


Some poor innocent soul was soon to fall victim to the
deranged thoughts and ideas of a madman, the culmination
of a mental aberration which was twenty-seven years
in the making. This man, it seemed, was destined to pay
for the mistakes that had been made by a parent or society.

