<font size="4"><b>Chapter Four</b></font>
[p. <i>[107]</i>]

Pierre L'Enfant envisioned Washington, D.C. as a European capital
of stately avenues and monumental edificesand to some extent,
it is. Swarming around the feet of those downtown monuments are
armies of workaholicsbright, ambitious, former high school nerds
whose nerdiness has finally paid off. Official Washington, unlike
New York, does not value artistic insight or style, traits which might
allow for a certain creative moodiness. It values power, and for the
legions of players who populate its corridorslawyers, lobbyists,
Capitol Hill staffers, and journalistspower is created by the assiduous,
daily application of smarts. It has little interest in, or tolerance
for, mental frailty.


Federal court was housed in a nondescript beige building within
sight of the U.S. Supreme Court, literally and figuratively. On my
first day of work in the building, a jury convicted Oliver North. It
would have been terrifying, except that the Post's national desk had
exclusive claim to that story and I was officially assigned to the metro
staff. I not only wasn't going to write that story, I wasn't going to
get near it. I spent my first day at work feeding tidbits and quotes to
the main writers.


But it would not happen again, I promised myself. My new boss,
Mary Jo Meisner, told me that one of my missions was to reclaim the
big stories on the federal courthouse for the metro staff. National stories
would, of course, run in the national sectionbut it would be
me, not somebody from the national desk, writing them, or most of
them. I had parachuted into the middle of one of the <i>Post</i>'s legendary
turf wars. This was a new level of play. No longer was there merely

[p. <i>108</i>]

So I ran. I darted like a rabbit through the courthouse corridors,
barely stopping to talk to people I needed to get to know, frantic at
the thought I was missing something on another floor. I ran to catch
cabs on unfamiliar streets. I bolted to catch subway trains, racing
down escalator stairs in feet blistered by the new shoes I'd bought in
honor of my new job. I was terrified at the thought that I might fail.
My send-off in Atlanta had been large, rowdy, and full of good feeling.
"You'll always have a job here," my editors told me as I left.
Which was unthinkable, of course, for one reason: that was the scenario
that had killed Fay Joyce.


Most of the time, I did not think about her; I focused on
thoughts of specific work-related catastrophes which could happen.
But at four a.m., when I awoke with visions of failure at my job, I
thought about her, and I wondered if I was headed down the same
path. Filled with vague dread, I would lie awake for hours. During
the day, I ran.


It was an exceptionally torrid summer, even by Washington
standards, and I spent most of my time in the courthouse pressroom,
a prisoner of the irrational notion that I would miss a story if I so
much as left the building for lunch. The east wing of the National
Gallery of Art, with wondrous treasures, was across the street, but I
never went there. At the end of the day, when the heat had diminished
a little, I collapsed in front of the television in my stuffy little
ground-floor apartment, in a row house on a shady street in Woodley
Park.


I had rented it in a hurry, noticing only the terra-cotta tile floor
in the kitchen and the tiny fireplace in the living room, overlooking

[p. <i>109</i>]

It was a miserable time, but I had expected to be miserable; that
was what moving to a new city was all about, I thought. And though
I had friends nearby, it was soon apparent that Washington did not
operate on the same informal standards as Atlanta. In Atlanta, I would
have dropped by a friend's house on my way home from work and
expected to be asked to stay for dinner. In this city of workaholics,
dinner parties were a form of after-hours networking, lined up weeks
in advance. People did little spur-of-the-moment socializing of the
kind I had always used for comfort and relaxation. Dating was a fantasy;
I had left behind no serious relationship in Atlanta, and all the
men I met in Washington seemed to live behind their desks.


And so the Beast began his stealthy approach.


Except that to describe it as "stealthy" isn't quite accurate; the
Beast, in my mind, was never a sentient being, with malice toward

[p. <i>110</i>]

Once, years before, I had taken an aerobics class in an un-air-conditioned
church gymnasium in the middle of the summer. Intent
on following the steps and determined to keep up with everyone else,
I had one night worked myself into a state approaching heat stroke.
I realized I had passed my limit only when I looked around to see
the class was ready for the next dance and I was still wandering aimlessly.
"Tracy?" people were saying, looking at me oddly. "Tracy, are
you okay?"


This time, not even odd looks could rouse me. The first symptom,
clear only in retrospect, was the loss of concentration.


Two weeks after I started at the <i>Post</i>, a federal grand jury handed
down a major drug indictment, naming twenty-six people in an
alleged conspiracy to import cocaine into the District from Colombia
via Panama. It was a three-day wonder of a story, and on the day the
indictments came down it led the paper. Late that afternoon, after
covering the press conference, I found myself on deadline, trying to
read a thick indictment. Indictments are like jigsaw puzzles, or stories
told out of sequence: in paragraph A, person B commits act C
on a particular date. The same date and event might be mentioned
twenty pages later, in connection with Person X. Making sense of
this is difficult, but I had done it often. Sometimes it was even fun,
deciphering the real story behind the legalese. But this indictment
made no sense.


Sensing trouble as the clock inched toward five p.m., my boss,

[p. <i>111</i>]

"Here," she said. "When I read these I put yellow Post-it notes
on things I may come back to." <i>She thinks I'm an idiot</i>, I thought. I
did not blame her. Every time I read a paragraph and went on to the
next, I forgot the paragraph before. What good would yellow Post-it
notes do? Twenty feet away, Mary Jo sat at her desk, waiting for my
copy to start coming in, clearly fretting at the delay. I shuffled
through pages, wrote a paragraph, shuffled through some more,
changed what I'd written. Finally Elsa said, "Here, let me make a
copy of this." In a few minutes, she was back with her own copy of
the indictment, which she skimmed through, marking important
dates and underlining names. Somehow, between the two of us, the
story emergednot a triumph of fine deadline reporting, but at least
accurate and more or less in on time. When the next day's edition of
the <i>Washington Post</i> landed on my doorstep, with my name on the
front page for the first time, I felt no sense of accomplishment. I
knew I had not done the story alone; I was beginning to suspect I
couldn't. And yet, it did not occur to me to say this to anyone, or to
ask for help. I was sure that if I could just gather my wits, if I could
just find my goddamn car keys, things would start to get better.


A few weeks later, during a break in some hearing at the court-house,
I was interviewing a lawyer connected with the case. Notebook
in left hand, pen in my right, I asked him his name. He told
me. I looked at the page, started to write, realized I had forgotten
what he'd just said. Pretending I hadn't heard, I asked him to repeat
himself; he told me his name again. A blank. I asked the third time.
Finally, letter by letter, I got it down.


"Bad day, huh?"


"Yeah," I said. More irritating proof of my stupidity. It was as if

[p. <i>112</i>]

I was a psychic sleepwalker, going through the motions of wakefulness
without the self-consciousness that attends normal wakefulness,
only vaguely aware that something is wrong. This is not denial;
a person who is drunk may protest that he is sober, but he at least
knows, at some level, that he has been drinking. A person who is
slipping into depression cannot know the changes going on in his
brain. It is impossible to understand that you are getting sick when
the hallmark symptom of that sickness is the loss of feeling.


Almost all feeling, that is, except anxiety. That was constant. At
night, to keep the jitters under control, I kept a glass of white wine
at my right hand. Two glasses would put me to sleep; then, about
four a.m., I would wake up, rigid with tension. There was no mockingbird
outside my window this time, only the roar of the antique
air-conditioning unit in my bedroom closet. Otherwise it was an
eerie repeat of the terrible spring of 1976, my junior year at Emory:
hours of hot, vacant darkness, lying in bed and looking at the ceiling,
waiting for morning to come. Weekends were blank stretches of time

[p. <i>113</i>]

I began to lose weight. Women in my family have always been
pear-shaped, and since puberty I have battled the Curse of Alta Mae
(the label came from a particularly unfortunate picture in the family
album of a female relative, wearing a 1920s-style flapper dress with a
large rosette pinned to her ample haunch). When I arrived in Washington
I was a size 12. Soon that dropped to a size 10, and even those
clothes started to feel loose. That was fine with me. If I could be slim,
I thought, perhaps I would be attractive. Maybe, if I had an acceptable
body shape, someone would at last find me worthy of love.


And then a most amazing thing happened: one day a friend in
the newsroom said, "I know someone who said he would like to meet
you."


The formality, the old-fashioned propriety, of his approach was a
big part of its charm. He was British by birth, raised in Canada,
twelve years older. A university professor with two children, his wife
had been killed in a car accident two years earlier. He was a neighbor
of my newsroom friend; we had met each other in passing a few
weeks earlier when I had dropped by her house for a drink and he
had been returning a yard rake. My friend had watched as he dealt
with his wife's death. She described their happy marriage, his grace
under the worst of pressures, his courage in confronting his grief, and
his strength in comforting their children. He had taken a sabbatical
after her death, rented out their house and moved to Montreal with
his children for six months to take up a temporary teaching post

[p. <i>114</i>]

All the glowing descriptions were true. But what my friend
could not have known was the intensity of Thomas's need to find a
wife. Once, a year or two after we met, I was helping him clean up
his study when I came across a scrap of paper on his untidy desk. It
was a list of women's names, some crossed out. I knew, or had heard
of, all of them; it was a list from his dating days, all women who
were single and unattached, and from the looks of it he had been
methodically going down it, name by name. Not surprisingly, most
were crossed off; Thomas had exacting standards. He was not looking
for a beautiful woman, he once told mecharacteristically, he didn't
care how that soundedthough obviously a woman who was unattractive
or fat would not have gotten his attention. The most important
attraction, he told me, was mental: "There is a level of
intellectual companionship I find absolutely essential."


Our first date was in August 1989- He presented himself at my
Doora well-dressed man in his mid-forties, of average height, wearing
a dark business suit of a severely conservative design that contrasted
as it was meant towith a silk tie of daring color and
design. For the first few moments, he seemed awkward, but then one
of us made some wry remark and I heard a quiet chuckle, and
instantly I thought: <i>This guy is really sure of himself</i>which was, of
course, exciting. We walked across the Duke Ellington Bridge to
Adams Morgan. I was wearing a flowered cotton dress with a lowcut
neckline. It was a balmy evening. I felt tingly and alive; at that
moment, the loneliness and fears of the past few months seemed like
a dream. We sat down at an outdoor table at a restaurant and ordered
wine.

[p. <i>115</i>]

"Tell me about your life," he said, and somehow that slight variation
on a banal phrase"Tell me about yourself"seemed infinitely
promising.


"What do you want to know?" I countered.


"I can't think of anything I <i>don't</i> want to know," he murmured,
looking at me. Thomas's concentration, when he chose to focus it,
was almost palpable, and at that moment I almost thought I could
hear the air between us humming. It gave me a kind of energy I had
not felt in weeks. I talked about myselfmy Southern family, funny
stories about my Tennessee relatives. Dinner came. Then, remembering
the social conventions, I said, "Tell me about your children."


He did, with warmth and detail. He spoke, too, of his wife, and
of the shock of her death. His youngest child, Peter, had been only
three then. Once he had asked Peter what he remembered of his
mother. Peter had said, "A lady in a red coat."


We sat in silence for a moment. My eyes felt hot.


"That makes me want to cry," I said.


"Imagine how it made me feel," he said. And then, simply, looking
straight at me: "It's been very lonely."


Killer loneliness: I knew what that wasbut I did not say so.
That was the old me, who had such intimate knowledge of loneliness.
The old, needy me was not the person I wanted to show
Thomasnot on a first date, not ever. She was whiny, clinging, desperate;
I hated her. I wanted to be the person he saw before him
and who, at that moment, I <i>was:</i> self-possessed, confident, attractive,
warm, a woman who sipped wine and told funny stories well. A bird
trapped in a dark room will fly toward the first patch of light it sees.
I had been in a dark room a long time; my heart was that bird. At the
evening's end, he took my hand and said urgently, "I want to see you
again."

[p. <i>116</i>]

"I think that can be arranged," I replied, attempting to be coy. In
fact, I could not imagine how time would pass between that moment
and the weekend.


We spent it together, with his children. Within a month, he had
asked me to move in with him. I agreed, instantly. "I want to marry
you," he said. At the time, I did not hear the shade of ambiguity in
his words: <i>I want to marry you meant Will you marry me?</i> "I will marry
you," I said.


He was in love with me; he told me so. It was almost frightening,
this intensity of feelingso different, he told me, from any love
he had known before. He felt lost in it, intoxicated, disoriented. And
so was I. For despite what was to follow, at the beginning I was
intensely in love. The world seemed transformed; the city that had
seemed indifferent to my presence now seemed enchanted, because
he was in it. His mother's family had been from Cork, and to me
Thomas seemed Irish to his bonesthe pale skin that resisted the
sun, the too large nose, sharp blue-gray eyes that could light up with
amusement. He loved stories of human foibles, the dumber the better;
he clipped newspaper stories about bungled robberies, burglars
who lost their car keys, drunks who mistook a police intercom for
the speaker at a drive-in hamburger joint, and kept them in a file
labeled "The Criminal Mind." He was fierce in his passions and at
odd moments prone to sentimentality, a trait he tried to hide. He
could be pugnacious, yet he was capable of having a brawling good
time. He taught me the words to "Finnegan's Wake" and courted
me extravagantly, introducing me to a city I had not known: Shakespeare
at Arena Stage, jazz at Blues Alley, Dionysian nights of beer
and blues at Wolf Trap.


We talked about a wedding the following April, followed by a
honeymoon in Paris. Work, friends, my old habitsall disappeared.

[p. <i>117</i>]

His children were then six and nine. Peter was a tadpole of a boy
who had just gotten his first barbershop buzz cut, in anticipation of
his first day of first grade. Melissa was dark-haired and chubby; from
pictures, I realized that she resembled her mother. The two of them
regarded me with friendly skepticism. Already, they had seen several
girlfriends come and go. But if they had doubts, Thomas did
not. He included me in their bedtime rituals; together, we read them
bedtime stories, and at his urging I kissed them good night. Thomas
wanted me in his life, there was no doubt about that. We were floating
on a hormonal tide, the sexual chemistry of love that is as intoxicating
as champagne.


And for us, just as nourishing. A month went by, six weeks.
Then, subtly, the high began to wear off. It was a while before I
noticed, but Thomas had begun to pick up on signs that all was not
well with me. I had never known how disrupted my sleeping patterns
were, but Thomas, a light sleeper, told me I got up three or
four times a night. He found my tossing and nocturnal ramblings
wearying. When he mentioned it, I shrugged it off. Then, one morning
in late October, we were driving in to work together, when I
remarked that this being-in-love business was feeling stressful.

[p. <i>118</i>]

"For some reason, I just want to burst into tears," I said. We were
rounding Dupont Circle; he was driving. In an odd way, I went on,
I wasn't feeling sad, just not as euphoric as I had the past couple
of weeks. And there was this wall of tears right behind my eyes. It
didn't occur to me that this was strange, or significant.


"That is a classic sign of depression," Thomas said. "That and
your sleeping disturbance is worrying."


"What sleeping disturbance?" I said. I protested: it was nothing,
It was just "stress," that was allthat all-purpose word people use
when they don't know what's really bothering them. It was also true
enough: moving to a new city, taking a new job, entering into a new
relationshipone with two children attachedwas certainly enough
stress for anybody. I told Thomas he was overreacting.


I had gradually come to recognize that the word "depression" had
two meaningsone medical and one vernacular. The medical sense
meant a serious mental illness, and that was clearly the way in which
Thomas was using the word. My application of the word to myself
fell somewhere in between. Maybe depression was an illness, but in
my case it was occasional and benign. Whatever was wrong with me
was more than just occasional disappointment or frustration with
lifebut, whatever it was, I was <i>not</i> mentally ill.


Yet with Thomas's remark, a new fear was born: maybe this affair
did not mark a new phase in my life after all. Maybe I was still defective.
And maybe Thomas was about to notice.


But there was also another problem: the issue of control.


Thomas wanted me in his life. But he wanted <i>only</i> menot my
furniture, not relics from my past life, and especially not my friends,
whom he considered provincial and boring. My attachment to them
was, he said, like refusing to give up the old high school gang.
"Leave your old life behind," he urged, and despite my increasing

[p. <i>119</i>]

"You would <i>do</i> that to me?" he said.


"I'm sorry," I said, miserably. Without a word, he went to the
wall, took the poster down and put it out the back door, next to the
garbage can in the alley.


"What are you going to do with it?" I asked. He stared at it for a
moment, then kicked it hard. The glass shattered all over the parking
lot; the poster crumpled.


"That worked," he said grimly. And that was that. I was forgiven;
we would talk no more about it.


A month after we met, I was supposed to go back to Atlanta for
a party Patti was throwing to celebrate completing her doctoral dissertation
in philosophy. I had promised her before I left that I would
return for it. My normal inclination would have been to get Thomas
to go with me; I wanted him to meet my friends. But that would
have meant leaving the children for a weekendtwo days of the

[p. <i>120</i>]

"That," Thomas said soberly when I told him, "was a very close
call."


I wrote to my mother to tell her that I was moving in with
Thomas. She responded in a vitriolic letter, telling me that if I did
so, he and I would be living in sin and, worse, leading little children
into sin; I was condemning myself to an eternity in hell, which was
clearly where Thomas belonged already; she would not be responsible
for the catastrophe I was creating. I had not expected her to be
pleased, but her rage took my breath away. I had never fully realized
the rigidity of her worldview, these barriers she had erected between
the respectable life she had found for herself and a childhood of
poverty. Marriage was the sacred token, the only pathway to the carnal
realm; sex outside of marriage was "shacking up," something only
poor, trashy people didand now her daughter was doing it. To her,
it must have seemed proof, after all these years, that her tainted past
could not be escaped. At the time, though, I could not analyze her
reaction; it seemed frightening to me, and wild, another unbearable
pressure in a situation which already had several. I gave her letter to
Thomas, who read it in silence. "Well," he said evenly when he was
done, "this woman will never set foot in <i>my</i> house." This woman?
<i>My</i> house? My stomach felt like lead. That night, as he watched me
from across the kitchen table, I called her. I tried to appease her, to
placate and plead. He listened in growing fury and astonishment.
When I hung up, his reaction was ferocious. He had expected nothing

[p. <i>121</i>]

"Where is your <i>loyalty?</i>" he demanded, incredulously. That was a
question I asked myself, lying beside him that night, thinking furiously
while he slept. I was fighting off a terror that felt a lot like nausea.
Was this going to be the cost of this new life I had longed
forto discard my past like old clothes, to cut myself off from my
family? Surely not, I told myself. I was overreacting; he was overreacting;
my mother had certainly overreacted. In a few days, everybody
would calm down. Besides, I did need to be more independent
of my family. It would all blow over, I told myself; somehow, it
would be all right.


Back at my apartment, newspapers piled on the doorstep, mail
accumulated unread, bills went unpaid, and the red light on my
answering machine blinked with messages I feared to return. To my
friends, it was as if I had disappeared from the face of the earth.


But to question this, or to give up the idea of being with him,
was unthinkable. If there was tension in our relationship, it had to be
my fault. Thomas had been happily married, for more than a dozen
years; there was ample evidence that he and his wife had been
absorbed in each other. All I brought to the table was a track record
of failed relationships. Yet I had a powerful urge to bolt. I couldn't
figure out why the one thing I had always wanteda husband and a
family of my ownwas so terrifying. One night I confessed this to
Thomas.


"It's not that I don't want to be with you and the kids," I said. "I
don't know why I am so frightened, but I am. Isn't that strange?"


I had hoped he would give me reassurance, "To me, too, it is
remarkable," he said. He was sitting at the kitchen table, looking at
me sadly. <i>I will not fail at this</i>, I thought grimly.

[p. <i>122</i>]

And so we set in motion a vicious cycle: everything that betrayed
my underlying depression, Thomas noticed. Whatever he noticed, I
met with evasion, lies, and subterfuge. The deception was all the
harder because Thomas wanted access to every corner of my mind;
true intimacy, he said, consisted in having no secrets, none at all. He
wanted to know every detail of my past, the name of every lover, the
story of every romantic misadventure, no matter how painful. He
wanted it all, every scrap; in fact, he felt entitled to it. And every
failure of mine to tell the whole story about something, he took as
evidence of deception. He was asking for a full accounting of events
I did not want to remember; he was asking, in fact, for an admission
of something that I could not admit to myselfthat for years my
life had been shadowed by the Beast.


Under those circumstances, it was impossible to be anything but
dishonest. After a while, it seemed that all my attempts to be authentic
were turning in on themselves, making me into a kind of liar I'd
never been before. Caught in a web of half-truths and omissions, I
kept apologizing for what I was doing, and I kept right on doing it.
The more I lied and apologized, the angrier he got. The angrier he
got, the more I began to fear him. The more I feared him, the less
self-confidence I had, and the less I could imagine being without
him. I kept evading and apologizing; his anger mounted, and began
to take on a tinge of sadism.


Increasingly, I felt like a zombie, moving through each day's set
of tasks, returning at night to a house where I had just a few of my
things shoved into a drawer here, a corner of a closet there, trying to
help Thomas be a parent to two children I barely knew. October
became November. I still had not really moved in; the talks we had
about subleasing my apartment and buying an engagement ring
somehow got shelved. My attempts to express warmth toward his

[p. <i>123</i>]

"Is it possible for you to be a little warmer toward the kids?" he
asked me one night. "If I see you ignoring them and picking up the
cat one more time, I don't know how I am going to be able to stand
it." And, on another occasion: "You have three people here who
really want to be with you, and you are keeping us at arm's length."
I felt guilty. I vowed to do better. And I also felt angry. <i>What's the
matter with wanting what I want?</i> I thought. <i>Why can't I just be myself?
Why do other people need so much attention from me?</i>


What began to enrage him the most was my remoteness, my
zombie facethis blank look I had. It closed him out, which was
the one thing he could not bear; to him, overt hostility would have
been better. We could be watching television, having a meal, driving
down the road, when he would say, "You're doing it again." The
zombie look was, in fact, the mask of depression, a clinical symptom
known well to psychiatrists. But the creeping emotional numbness I
was falling into made it impossible for me to know when my face
assumed that expression; all I knew was that suddenly, like a
kamikaze plane diving out of the sun, came Thomas's anger. I felt
like Ingrid Bergman in <i>Gaslight</i>, trying to please a fiercely possessive,
inscrutable husband and slowly going nuts in the process.


Any little thing could bring the tension to a head. One Sunday
afternoon, I was feeling itchy and anxious. Thomas was at work in
his study; there was a lecture he had to give at a conference coming
up soon. Melissa, the nine-year-old, was doing something on her

[p. <i>124</i>]

"Does anybody want to go for a walk?" I asked. In a functional
family, this suggestion would hardly have been worth noticing; after
a weekend of tending to kids and errands, any adult in the house
would be entitled to a break. But in this family, there were three
kids: Melissa, Peterand me. The reason Peter was nagging everyone
so much for attention, the reason he and Melissa were fighting
more than usual, was that Thomas was paying some long-overdue
attention to his lecture, leaving Peter and Melissa to me. Melissa and
Peter, temporarily deprived of their father's attention, were getting
only grudging notice from me. The only person I wanted attention
from was Thomas, and he was busy. Everything was out of kilter.


When I posed my question, Thomas came out of his study and

[p. <i>125</i>]

One fact was immediately clear: nobody wanted to go for a walk.
I had known that, and was secretly relieved. "Fine," I said quickly,
getting up from the table. "I'll just go by myself."


Before I knew what was happening, Thomas had stood up, crashing
his chair to the floor. The children scattered, knocking over their
own chairs in their haste to get out of the room. Thomas grabbed
me by the shirt collar, and I found myself with my back to the wall.
His face was only inches from mine, ugly with anger.


"You have taken your last walk," he said, still gripping my collar,
and there was menace in his tone. "<i>Do ... you ... understand?</i>"


"Don't you manhandle me!" I yelled. He let me go and stalked
out of the room.


Stunned and humiliated, I tried to figure out what had happened.
It was as frightening and incomprehensible as if a visitor from
another galaxy had just knocked at the door. Thomas's reaction had
been extreme; he had to be reacting to something. But <i>what?</i>


After a while, the children came back into the kitchen, acting as
if nothing had happened. I was sitting at the kitchen table when
Peter scooted up beside me on the bench in the bay window. He sat
on the windowsill, propping his feet on the table. His face was serious.


"Hey, sport," I said, trying to pretend that all was well.


"I'll go for a walk with you," Peter said. "Do you wanna?"


"No, thanks," I said. "I changed my mind."


I began to lose faith in my own perceptions. It was as if I were
standing in front of a mirror which was gradually getting distorted;

[p. <i>126</i>]

I steeled myself to accept some things with blind belief. If my
perception of something clashed with Thomas's, mine had to be
wrong. Every reaction, every innocuous encounter with another person,
was now suspect. How would I know when a man was flirting
with me? Thomas was of the opinion that all men were obsessive sexual
predators, and though that trait might be tamed it was never
absent; I thought men and women could have platonic friendships.
How would I know when I should fight for my point of view in a
disagreement with my boss? Thomas's style was ultimatums and
direct confrontations; mine was to avoid conflict. How would I know
if my old friends were bad for me? He thought the way I depended
on them was unhealthy; I had always considered them an essential
source of emotional sustenance.


With the same desperate energy I had felt trying to read Saint
Augustine's <i>Confessions</i> in college years before, I renewed my efforts to
stifle my raw emotions. I became obsessively eager to please him. But
it was all wrong. I was like a deaf person on a dance floor: all I could

[p. <i>127</i>]

One night I was working on a story on deadline when Thomas
called me from his car phone. Peter had a severe stomachache, he
said; he was on his way home to take him to the emergency room.
This was unusual. Peter was never sick; he was unusually stoic for a
six-year-old. But I was distracted: I had a story to finish and an editor
standing over me, waiting impatiently to talk.


"Okay," I said to Thomas. "Talk to you later." I hung up. About
ten seconds later, Thomas rang up again, his voice cold with fury.


"I don't want you to come over tonight," he said. "I will handle
this on my own."


Belatedly, I realized I had failed, again. But I wasn't worried
about Peter; I was terrified for myself. I had done something which
might cut me off from Thomasan error as catastrophic as if I were
a scuba diver who had lost his breathing apparatus. <i>You are so fucking
self-absorbed</i>, I thought, sick with self-loathing. I was a disgusting,
selfish bitch. It was an image of myself which Thomas's fury did
nothing to disturb. I began to apologize, once again; and once again
I placated Thomas, and persuaded him to detour by my office so that
I could go with him to the hospital. I typed something into the computer,
told my editor I had an emergency and would check with him
before the second edition, and bolted for the elevator.


Peter's stomachache turned out to be not appendicitis, as Thomas
had feared, but an intestinal virus. We made it back to Thomas's
house that night at nearly midnight. But the emergency room doctor
wanted to double-check Peter's white blood count before he went off
his shiftso I got up at five-thirty a.m., woke Peter up, and took
him back to the emergency room. I wanted to prove to Thomas that

[p. <i>128</i>]

Before, I had slid into depressive episodes relatively unnoticed;
now I was doing it in the face of an exacting, excruciating scrutiny. I
knew things were drastically wrong, but I still did not think of
myself as actually sick. I thought of myself as incompetent, selfish,
and screwed up. For his part, Thomas was clear about the fact that I
was suffering from depression, and he understood that it was an illness.
He just couldn't believe that finally, now that he had met a
woman he was really interested in, she turned out to be sick. I think
he hoped that one day the episode would disappear as mysteriously as
it had come. In the meantime, he found the experience acutely
painful. "I can't be with you today," he might announce abruptly as
we were meeting downtown for lunch. "You're being buzzy again."
That was his way of describing my jerky eye movements and oddly
tense body language when I felt acutely anxious, which was almost
all the time; the increasing anxiety was a major symptom of my
depression. He understood that; at times, his anger would subside as
quickly as it had flared. "You can't help it, I know," he would say,
with pity. "You're sick." I felt like a drowning person, watching the
rescue helicopter appear, then unaccountably move away. I <i>had</i> to
get well. I gave myself deadlines for getting well. They passed, without
result.


In mid-November, at Thomas's suggestion, I made an appointment
with a nearby psychiatrist, who prescribed a gradually increasing
dose of imipraminethe same drug I had taken for a year,
starting in 1986. Back then, I had never taken more than 150 milligrams
a day. Now I moved up over several weeks to 275 milligrams
a day. In addition to the medication, I saw this doctora woman

[p. <i>129</i>]

In this, I think, he was half right. Certainly all of the doctors I
had ever been to in Atlanta seemed to have an antidrug biasor, at
the least, seemed to consider antidepressants more or less like dietary
supplements, potentially helpful in rare cases but something most
people could do without. The psychiatrist I saw in Washington was
conversant with drug treatment. Since I had seemed to respond to it
before, her decision to prescribe imipramine was in keeping with
conventional medical wisdom, which held that whatever worked
before should be the first remedy tried in case of a relapse. This time,
however, the effect of the imipramine was minimal, even at a much
higher dosea phenomenon which, I later discovered, has a name:
"discontinuation refractoriness." A drug that has good effects the first
time around, and is discontinued, sometimes has little or no effect if
the patient resumes taking it. At the time, researchers at the
National Institute of Mental Health were just beginning to document
this effect in manic-depressive patients who were resuming
lithium treatment after a hiatus; there was no evidence to think it
might affect people like me, who suffered from depressive episodes
without any manic symptoms.


In theory, imipramine could profoundly affect the way I perceived
reality, but it could not alter the way I was <i>reacting</i> to it. That
required some exertion of conscious thoughtand that, in turn,

[p. <i>130</i>]

For the first time in years, I resurrected my journal:


December 7, 1989: I talked to Patti last night
and felt better; but then what she says so completely
contradicts what Thomas says that I have no idea
right now what's true ... I don't want to face the
kids. I am so ashamed I failed their father.


December 8: He's angry and hurt and he lashes
out at me, and either he's nuts or I am doing something
so awful to him that I can't see what it is. I
don't think he's nuts. But nothing seems rational
right now ... I couldn't give up control over my life
to him. He says if you love someone, you doit's a
mutual thing. That sounds reasonable. He says it
should be easy.... What if the problem here is that
I'm just unable to love? What if what I call love is
really just getting what I want?


The journal entries were one form of something I was doing a lot
of: compulsive note taking. My emotions were so jumbled and
intense that, at some level, I knew they didn't make sense. But it
was inconceivable that my moods might be dictating my perceptions,

[p. <i>131</i>]

As my depression grew deeper, the "reality" I was keeping track
of grew more and more distorted. It was a phenomenon I was to recognize
much later, in the scribbled notes left behind by White
House counsel Vincent Foster before his suicide. In those notes, I
could clearly hear the agonized voice of a mind struggling to reconcile
its perceptions with the immense pain it felt. ("Here, ruining
people is considered sport," wrote this highly successful lawyer and
counselor to the President, whose career was anything but ruined.
And, later, in what must have been a highly uncharacteristic tone of
recklessness, the flat statement: "The FBI lied.")


And so it was with me. In one undated scrap of paper that survives
from that period, I found in my own jagged handwriting: "Lost
self-confidencewondering if old self-confidence wasn't based on an
illusion."


And: "His children basically don't like me ... They find me cold
and ungiving ... If I'm this cold, perhaps I shouldn't have children."


And: "If I'm a charity case, I don't want to be with him. Better to
be alone."


But no amount of analysis could stop the inevitable unfolding of
events. One night in early December, Thomas said with finality, "I

[p. <i>132</i>]

Here, finally, was visible proof of the defectiveness I had tried all
my life to hide. In September, I had told my friends I was getting
married; now I was getting kicked out of the house. What hope was
there, if not even a man who had kept his family together through a
major tragedy could stand to have me around? No alternative explanations,
not even the intrinsic self-pity of that question, occurred to
me. In less than three months, this fairy-tale love affair had crashed
and burned. I was left with my old companion, the Beast.


It was Christmastime; from the pressroom in the federal courthouse,
I saw the tree go up in front of the Canadian Embassy next
door, watched night after night as dusk fell and the traffic flowed
down Pennsylvania Avenue, a glittering red and white river of cold
misery. I worked, or tried tobut like a machine whose circuits are
slowly winking out, my brain each day found a smaller and smaller
focus. I thought the same thoughts over and over again; on Tuesday,
I re-created the work I had done on Monday. I had passed up the
chance to cover a big drug trial in favor of working on a project I
thought more interesting. It was an idea born out of my experience at
Yale, about the degree to which class-action lawsuits challenging the
running of various city agenciesthe jails, the food stamp program,
shelters for the homelesshad resulted in federal judges taking over
the functions of city government. My editors agreed to this, and
pulled my colleague Elsa Walsh away from what she was doing and
assigned her to cover the trial. It was a decision that caused the maximum
amount of inconvenience for everyone. Elsa was in the last
stages of planning her wedding to Bob Woodward, the former
Watergate reporter who was now a senior editor at the <i>Post</i>. Covering

[p. <i>133</i>]

Meanwhile, I was realizing I'd made a bad move. As harried as
Elsa was, she kept getting into the paper with fascinating tales of the
city's drug underworld, while I sat in the clerk's office, slowly reading
the same court documents over and over, trying to gather my
thoughts about this major project I had so foolishly promised my
editors. Years later, cleaning out some old files, I found a memo I
had written to my editors about that idea. To my surprise, it read
clearly, marshaled a lot of disparate facts in support of a single, coherent
argument, and made a case about federal court intervention in
city government that was later the subject of a reform commission
report; a couple of years after that, the same story, updated, was written
by my successor at the federal court beat, and ran on page 1. I
had been on the right track after all. But I couldn't discern that at
the time. I could barely complete a thought, and when I did manage
to write a complete paragraph, I forgot it almost immediately.


I don't know when the idea of suicide first occurred to me. In
some ways, it had been in the back of my mind for years. Yet, oddly,
I would never have thought of it as an option. It was the perceived
<i>lack</i> of optionsthe final, unacceptable solution to a grave and insoluble
dilemma. I had always thought of it in the same way: <i>If all else
fails, if I have nowhere else to turn, I can do this</i>. There had been isolated
momentsfor instance, that long-ago episode with the aspirin bottle
when that option had seemed to present itself. But those had
been impulsive and relatively short-lived. The episodes of depression

[p. <i>134</i>]

This was different. This was bleak, grinding despairday after
day of it. I thought of the friends I had said goodbye to in Atlanta,
the great things they had expected of me. Now it had come to this:
the institutional tan of the bleak hallways of the federal courthouse,
a newsroom where I had no real friends, a gray city of marble and
snow and impersonal edifices. I couldn't go back to Atlanta; I could
barely bring myself to admit to anyone that yet another love affair
had gone sour. Thomas and I talked on the phone every daylong,
bitter conversations full of recriminations and pain.


"I offered you total devotion," he told me in one of those conversations.
"You offered me shit."


And yet, even at this desperate point, there were still moments of
pleasure, when Thomas and I put our trouble aside for an evening
and helped the kids do their homework, or piled up with Peter and
Melissa to watch a video. When I first met Thomas's children, I had
viewed them as rivals, conversational interruptions, and impediments
to whatever it was I wanted to do. Now, as Thomas and I drifted
apart, I belatedly began to discover they were individuals with charm
and humor; it was a tribute to their power that even at this low
point, they could lift me out of myself for a few hours.


Melissa loved snow and believed in magic. Every evening after
dinner, she retired to the porch to talk to her elves. She had an incantation
that was guaranteed to ensure enough snow to clog the roads
and close school for a daybut to be effective, it had to be chanted,
at high-decibel level, for at least half an hour. "Hey-yonna, ho-yonna,
please make it snow-yonna," she intoned, walking from room to
room and flapping her arms. It was hard to carry on a normal conversation,
but her exuberance made me grin. Peter trailed in her foot-steps

[p. <i>135</i>]

"Hey, sport," I said. "You're supposed to be in the shower."


"Okay," he said. "But first I have to find my basketball."


"What are you going to do with a basketball in the shower?"


"I don't know," he said, looking surprised at my lack of imagination.
"I just never tried it."


Christmas came. Thomas and the kids left for Montreal to visit
his parents, leaving me behind. "This is goodbye," he said as they
left, but neither of us believed it; both of us were incapable of actually
severing the relationship. I went to Atlanta and called him every
day, hoping to hear in his voice some softening note, some clue that
he might be able to forgive me for my failure. Instead I heard bitterness
and longing. He wanted to salvage something from the wreck,
even though his common sense said it was hopeless. Even when we
were at our best together, he found my most superficial traits maddening;
my ingrained Southern habit of being polite even to people I
did not like or was angry at he described in one word: "phony."
There was some truth to that. And yet his characteristic bluntness
could be caustic, even cruel. Once I brought over the wrong vintage
of wine for dinner. Thomas looked at the label and sighed. We were
standing on the deck, in front of the children. "You can drink this
shit, because I won't," he said, handing the bottle back to me, and
then he added, with withering contempt: "Someday, you will learn
that competence counts."


My craving to please him, my constant shading of the truth,
about whateverwhy I was fifteen minutes late, what my boss had
said at lunch that daybrought out the worst in him. "You have

[p. <i>136</i>]

The new year came in the middle of that hard winter, a season of
gray slush and evenings that started in midafternoon. Thomas
returned from Montreal with a pronouncement: he was ready to
resume dating other womenthough, he added, he would not rule
out our getting back together at some point. It was a pathetic crumb
of hope; any healthy person would have given up. I refused. And
despite his words, Thomas kept in constant contact; he called me at
least once a day, sometimes three or four times. We often met for
drinks or dinner. He wanted to be rid of me; he could not let me go.


Things were out of control.


There is a pounding noise somewhere. It's insistent. It's been
going on for a long time, maybe for hours; I can't tell. I have to find
it. But somehow gravity has turned sideways; every time I try to
stand, the walls slope down. There is another noisea loud thump.
Again. It's dark. I realize the thumping noise is me, falling down.
Gradually, part of the bedroom wall comes into focus. I have to
stand, walk, somehow find the pounding noise. My face is cold; there
is an icy wind in my face. It's because I am at the front door, and the
winter night is rushing in. Thomas is standing there, looking like
death. He pushes his way through, into my apartment, goes into the
kitchen. I'm standing, swaying, in the living room, my hands over
my face. None of this makes senseexcept that I remember going
for a drink with Thomas sometimehours ago? Was it today?and
then he was taking me home. I wanted to stay with him, but he said

[p. <i>137</i>]

The next morning, I knew I had not dreamed it: there was an
empty vodka bottle, several empty wine bottles, on the kitchen
counter. Thomas must have found every ounce of alcohol in the house
and poured it down the sink. I remembered the evening before:
drinks after work, the flirting between us, the sexual tension, then
his casual hurry to leave. His bald words: "I have a date tonight."
Why had he said that? It was deliberate cruelty. I remembered getting
out of the car like a person whose bones were broken, thinking
only that I wanted to go to bed, even though it was only about seven-thirty.
I had taken my nightly dose of imipramine, and to make sure
I slept, I had washed the pills down with a tumbler of vodka. Then I
had put on my pajamas and gone straight to bed. All I wanted was to
sleep, to escape my misery for a while.


On my right leg, there was a bruise that covered my thigh from
hip to knee.


Thomas called that morning while I was at work. I knew he
would.


"I called you," he said. "You kept picking up the phone, but you
wouldn't answer." He had panicked, gotten in his car, driven to my
apartment and pounded on the door. It had been nearly midnight.


I realized that I had almost killed myself. Thomas's haggard face
was imprinted in my memory: more fear there than I had ever seen in
anyone's face. He almost had a suicide on his hands; he must have
known people would say he had driven me to it. The thought of that,
the damage that would do to his reputation, had made him frantic.
The funny thing was, I had not been thinking about dying. It would

[p. <i>138</i>]

So he feared the damage I could do to his reputation. But he also
loved me. I think it was, by that point, against his will, but there it
was. There was a bond between us, a strange kind of friendship
which had not even existed at the beginning, but which had grown
stronger for all our conflicts. At some level, we both recognized that
the other was struggling, in anguish, trying not to drown. Even if
he had wanted to end all contact with me, he didn't dare. And so we
clung together, locked in a macabre dance of pity, need, and torment.
"I am not abandoning you," he said. But I didn't want his compassion.
I wanted his love. I was in sole, blind pursuit of it.


I stopped going to the gym, hiding my bruised leg. Thomas and
I never spoke of that evening again.


One day in mid-January, in midafternoon, the city desk called
me at the federal court pressroom. There was a hearing starting in
just a few minutes across John Marshall Plaza, in D.C. Superior
Court. Bart Gellman, who usually covered superior court, was tied
up on a story. I was needed to cover for him.


It was a sentencing hearing in a case that had been widely publicized
a year earlierthe infamous nanny murder. It was every parent's
nightmare come true. A couple in upper northwest Washington
had hired a nanny to look after their nine-month-old daughter, their
only child. They had done all the things parents were supposed to
do: they had interviewed the nanny in person, they had asked for references,

[p. <i>139</i>]

The couple could not have known who they were hiring, because
the nanny had lied to them. The name she gave them, Linda Johnson,
was not her real name; under her real name she had a lengthy
criminal record in her home state of Louisiana, a record that included
a charge of criminal neglect of children. Charged in the Washington
case with first degree murder, Johnson had later entered a guilty
plea to manslaughter. Now she was due to stand before Judge Henry
Greene for sentencing.


It was a wrenching case, made more so by the fact that the parents
of the dead infant were sitting in the courtroom, holding tightly
to each other's hands and struggling to keep their composure. Then
Linda Johnson entered the courtroom from a side door.


She was in her early forties, slightly pudgy, and her face bore the
marks of recent tears. She sat down at the defense table without looking
at the couple behind her, and the hearing began. It lasted for
nearly ninety minutes. When it was all but over, and the judge was
ready to pronounce sentence, Johnson was asked to stand. Did she
have anything she wanted to say on her own behalf? the judge asked
her.


Johnson stood, seeming to lean against the table for support.
Then, for the first time, she turned to face the couple whose daughter
she had killed. Her face was contorted; tears ran down her cheeks.


"I would like to say to Amy and Larry Banker, I'm sorry for what
I did," she said. Her voice was cracked, and it held a pleading, desperate

[p. <i>140</i>]

She sank back into her chair and sobbed. I looked at the parents.
Lawrence and Amy Banker were both weeping quietly. Lawrence
Banker held his wife's hand tightly, looking at the floor. But Amy
Bankervisibly pregnant with the couple's second childwas looking
directly at the woman who had killed her baby. She was shaking
her head silently, and what she was thinking was clear to any
observer: <i>No. This I will not accept</i>.


Both Johnson's defense attorney and the prosecutor scrambled to
their feet, and there was a small flurry among the spectators. In legal
terms, what Johnson had just said was enough to cast the faintest
tinge of doubt on her guilty plea, since the law requires a judge to
reject a criminal's guilty plea unless the accused admits to every element
of the crime. Now, Johnson had just tried to weasel out of a
crucial ingredient: intent. She had made the whole thing sound like
a freak accident.


After a few moments of listening to the lawyers, it became clear
to me that this was a legal battle that had already been fought, when
Johnson officially entered her plea two months earlier. Everyone
the prosecutor, the defense attorney, the Bankers themselves
wanted the guilty plea to stick; no one wanted a trial, with gruesome
medical testimony and autopsy pictures. And so, after a few minutes
of wrangling, Judge Greene decided: Enough. He would accept the
guilty plea and pass sentence. But before he did, he had something to
say.


"I see a very, very strong strain of self-protection," he said, looking
at Johnson, who was still crying. He noted that Johnson had
given the police three different versions of events before she told the
truth about what had happened. "She took steps to save her own skin.

[p. <i>141</i>]

And then he pronounced sentence: the maximum possible for
manslaughter under District of Columbia lawfifteen years to life.


It was right on evening deadline, a gray and rainy January day. I
walked across John Marshall Plaza to the federal courthouse pressroom
to file my story, close to tears myself and chilled to the bone,
though not by the weather. In Linda Johnson, I had glimpsed myself.


"At issue in the hearing," I wrote on my computer, conscious of
the scant half hour I had to file the story, "was a question that goes to
the heart of every accused criminal's guilty plea: Did Linda Johnson
accept responsibility for her act?"


<i>Did I accept responsibility for my actions?</i>


This felt like a dangerous question. It was not a question about
what made people act the way they did, nor was asking it a way of
taking on an inappropriate burden of guilt. People did what they did
for many reasons. I had heard a brief version of Johnson's life in that
courtroom: raised in dire poverty, abused as a child, uneducated, virtually
unemployable, knocked about by life. She had been dealt harsh
blows; she had many reasons to be a bitter and unhappy woman. But
still: there had been a moment when she had held the baby in her
hands, had shaken her violently, had knocked that tiny infant's skull
against a wall. She had done that, in anger, repeatedly. She had done
it. And yet


Everything she had said in court, everything that I saw in the
legal papers I had before me, showed a woman who could not, or
would not, make the final, fatal connection between her action and
its consequence. What she had said instead was spelled out in the
legal papers, only a small part of which I had room for in the story.


"I wasn't aware of what the crying was doing to me," she had

[p. <i>142</i>]

Here was remorse, and something else: self-pity. <i>Consider my pain
instead of the pain I caused you</i>, it said. <i>Look at my reasons!</i> It was human,
it was entirely understandable. But it was not honest. There would
have been at least some scrap of human dignity in confronting this
horror, looking it in the eyein saying, <i>Because I did this horrible
thing, that thing happened. The act speaks for itself; nothing I say or do will
ever atone for it. I alone take responsibility</i>. That was something a grownup
could say. The other voice was the voice of a child.


I saw this clearly, as I had never seen it before, and for the first
time I applied it to myself. There were reasons for why I was behaving
the way I wasample reasons, entirely understandable reasons,
reasons which were in large part out of my control. And yet my
behavior was causing consequences. I had done things that caused
pain and terror in other people. More important, my actions had just
the other night almost killed somebodyme. These consequences
were happening before my eyes; they were real. And this mattered.
At some point, somehow, I would have to take this fact into account,
or forever be the pitiful kind of person I had seen in court that afternoon.


But no sooner had this thought formed than I was overwhelmed,

[p. <i>143</i>]

The friends I had cut off contact with in the fall tried periodically
to get in touch with me, but I seldom returned their calls; even
if I had not felt the humiliation of having to admit to them that I
had failed at yet another relationship, I knew that Thomas did not
like them, and I wanted to be the person Thomas wanted. I knew I
was inflicting enormous damage on them; these were people who
keenly felt my sudden indifference. But it had to be that way, I
thought.


The old Tracy had never been good enough; so I would remake
myself into someone who was. It was not the first time I had made
this promise to myself: over and over again, sobbing over some
abortive love affair, I had said to myself, <i>I want to</i> change <i>my life</i>. It was
the reality of depression I wanted to change, but I had not known
that. Then, as now, I simply knew I wanted my life to be profoundly
different. I wanted that so much I was willing to put my future into
one bleak and unsparing formulation: <i>Change your life or die</i>.


<i>Change your life or die</i>.


But all my attempts at change were being thwarted by the Beast.
The Beast, in fact, was the very thing I was trying to change. But he
was much stronger than I. The Beast had me in a viselike grip, forcing
my gaze away from him and toward one tiny point in the universe:
Thomas. If I could change my life, I could save that
relationship. I could be with somebody; I could have a home and

[p. <i>144</i>]

I began to plan my death one night in early February. I had come
home, poured myself a glass of wine, and was sitting in an armchair
in my living room when the thought came into my mind: <i>Well, that's
it</i>. The room was quiet; I had had the news on earlier, but the television
was off, the phone was quiet, and on this day there was not even
a blinking red light on my answering machine. It was Thursday
night, and in the back of my mind the weekend loomed, a two-day
space of blank time that I had no idea of how to fill. In a strange way,
it was that thought which snapped the last tiny thread in my mind;
it was one more task, one more thing to do, on top of a burden that
had already grown intolerable. Something had to give, and the half-formed
thought came to me that perhaps there was a way I could
avoid the weekend, not just this weekend but all weekends to come.
For the first time in months, I felt some energy. I got up and went
into my study.


The actual means of death was simple: pills and alcohol. I had
learnedhad I not?how easily it could be done. I had another bottle
of vodka on hand, and a newly refilled prescription of imipramine:
lots of pills. I had looked up the dosage once in the <i>Physicians' Desk
Reference</i>, and found that the amount I was taking nightly was near
the maximum recommended adult dose. The <i>PDR</i> also went into
some detail about toxicity and contraindications, the main one being
that imipramine had a heavily sedating side effect even in normal
doses, and was dangerous to use in patients who were acutely suicidal.
It would be a simple thing to triple or quadruple the doseor
better yet, just take the rest of the pills all at once and swallow them
with vodka. I had read of people doing it.

[p. <i>145</i>]

But it seemed important to leave things in an organized fashion
apartment tidy, papers in order, a will written, letters to friends
dispatched. I was especially worried about my cats. I did not want
them to wind up in an animal shelter, so I wrote a letter to a friend
down the street, asking her to adopt them. Then there were my journalism
awards, which I wanted to send to my mother. I gathered
them all up, found an old packing box, and put them away, with a
note on top directing where they should go. That left the letters,
which took hours to write. I found myself trying to explain, and to
apologize, without thinking too much of the reality they represented;
if I thought about reality, I would not be able to go ahead with my
planto the extent I <i>had</i> a plan.


Even at this stage, my preparations were like strapping on a parachute
in an airplane that was about to crash; the whole time I was
preparing to hurl myself out the door, I clung to the hope that something
would happen at the last minute to forestall that terrible necessity.
And it was necessity I feltnot hostility, as psychiatric texts
would say, or vengeful rage, or a desire for attention. This was done
in secret, out of a need to alleviate pain which was as implacable as
thirst.


I was like someone in the last stages of cancer. I had a body that
had outlasted my mind's ability to endure pain, and now I faced the
possibility of opting out. But there the similarity ended. A terminal
cancer patient considers the prospect of suicide with all the mental
equipment he was born with. I was living in a twilight zone between
rational thought and irrationality. My choice was a rational response
to a set of irrational perceptions, the inevitable result of all that note
taking I had been doing.


This is one of the least understood aspects of depression, this
tenacity with which severely depressed people cling to the very perceptions

[p. <i>146</i>]

That is what I told myselfand at the same time, I postponed
my leave-taking that evening, hoping still for some clue, any other
option. I went to bed well after midnight and slept soundly for the
first time in several weeks. The next morning, I got up, showered,
dressed, and went to work as usualfor what reason, I could not say,
except that not going to work would have seemed abnormal, and I
was still deeply attached to the idea that I must try to seem normal.
I have no recollection of anything I did that day, until late in the
afternoon.


It was about four o'clock, on a gray afternoon which had not seen
the sun. I was sitting at my terminal in the pressroom at the federal
courthouse, typing another in that unending series of notes to myself.


"Right now I am thinking I want to die," I had just typed. "I
am ashamed of that. I feel it is a weakness." I was sitting there, looking
at those words on my screen, when, without conscious thought,
my hand went to the telephone and I dialed Thomas's number at
work.


"It's me," I said, diffidently.


"Yes?" I could hear irritation in his voice. It was a bad time of

[p. <i>147</i>]

"I am in serious trouble."


He understood instantly.


"Where are you?" he asked. I told him. "Stay there. As soon as I
can get away, I will come and get you. Don't go anywhere. Do you
understand?"


"Yes," I said.


Then I hung up and waited for the next, unimaginable thing to
happen.

