TRANSCRIPT OF AUDIO FILE:
______________________________________________________________________________
BEGIN TRANSCRIPT:
THERAPIST: I could never get the settings right on my phone because I realized when I put it into airplane mode, which is really what I did, people who called in wouldn't get my voice mail but would just be told that I was unavailable, which made it sound sort of sketchy. But if I didn't put it in airplane mode, then the phone would either ring or it wouldn't ring, but it would record and still be interrupted. So, thus . . . 
CLIENT: Thus. Good non-operating device. (sighs) I just feel like I have to say this—it's really fucking hot. (both laugh) It really is. Last weekend I went camping, and that was really—most of the weekend was really fun. I like camping. I grew up camping, so I'm just like—whatever. They're like, "Oh, but . . . this . . . that." I'm like, "There are flush toilets." Frankly, I'm amazed. (laughs) I'm used to pit toilets and cold showers. In the campgrounds we used to go to you had to pay for hot water, so you had to bring quarters with you into the shower. It was always like, "Do you have enough quarters?" [00:01:32] They do large meals for about 150 people, so it's like a big camping social thing.
THERAPIST: You're not talking about the campsite itself. You're talking about the event?
CLIENT: Both. The site has a semi-professional kitchen and they do sort of [ ] (inaudible at 00:01:55) retreat and other people do various events there. This was about 150 people. This had grown from 10-20 people to a lot more.
THERAPIST: What was it?
CLIENT: It's called Riz-con—"Riz" being part of the nickname of the person who started doing this. Initially it was some friends camping and also making weird ice cream because you can make ice cream with nitrogen. So now it is a three-day weekend/event of making weird ice cream and also camping. People bring various things, like someone brought a set-up for doing aerial silks and people bring drums and people bring all kinds of things. It was good overall. I liked it. The one thing that I wasn't thinking about until the second day I was there I was like, "Oh, right, this entire event is white," except for me, the salvation guy and this woman who had this ambiguously raced—kind of black/brown skin, kind of curly hair—like it appears in print ads where you're like, "I guess she's something." I was like, [ ] (inaudible at 00:03:33) 
THERAPIST: Like, "Oh, she's ethnic, I think."
CLIENT: Right, but she could also just be the kind-of Italian woman. You don't know. Or like the actor who plays Jacob in Twilight movies is white. He's just white, but after the first movie he dredged up an ancestor really far back, sort of; but actually he's not. So it was really white. Why I had gotten really hot setting out things and my hair was kind of a mess and I was like, "I really wish I had brought something to re-twist my hair or redo it." The problem is that I don't like doing that in front of a bunch of white people because they just stare and it makes me really uncomfortable. So I just wore my hair up in an afro and people still stared, but at least it wasn't like I was sitting doing something where people were just staring and staring. Also there is someone I thought that a lot of people had fancy French braids and things and I was like, "That's weird." [00:04:57] There is one girl who really likes to do fancy braids and so anyone who would sit still, she was braiding their hair. This is the same girl who—one time I was at a friend's sleep-over and I was twisting my hair in public, and she just stared at me, sat a little bit further away than you are, and just stared. I got up twice to move because I was like, "This is weird," and she just followed and stared, still had this distance, but stared. It was very weird. [00:05:36]
THERAPIST: That's pretty uncomfortable.
CLIENT: Yeah. At first I thought—we were in this sort of smallish room where there was food and chatting and I'm like, "Maybe it's just because I'm in this room and she's not really staring at me," or whatever. And then I was like, "Nope. She's just staring." I'm like, "she's going to try to braid my hair at some point. I'm confident of it." I had to think, "What did I want to do about that? How did I actually feel about that," to which the answer is "No, I don't want her in my hair for a variety of reasons, including that I think she would just snarl it horribly." [00:06:23] I think she would just snarl it and it's kind of intimate –to have someone actually braid my hair takes a couple of hours, so it's kind of very intimate and it's so long it's really intimate—it's like a special production. 
THERAPIST: I think I understand about it being a special production. [00:06:58]
CLIENT: Yes, exactly. [ ] (inaudible at 00:07:00) I know everyone else does. I also was pretty sure she was going to try to be a "pouty face" like, "But why won't you let me?" She held off until the last day, which was impressive. She was braiding someone's hair and was about to leave. I was sitting eating dinner at the same table and she started staring and then she asks this very weird question of, "How would you feel if I were to ask you if I could braid your hair?" It ended up being an annoying question. I'm like, "I don't actually want to answer 'how do I feel' about that," because the answer is, "I feel like you're being really creepy and I wish you would get the hell away from me." I sort of said, "The answer is no. I do not want you to do that." She got really sad and I said, "Thank you for asking for asking first." And then she went off on this defensive, "Well, of course, I would never just touch someone's hair without asking," da-da-da. I'm like, "You stare." Then she ended up being my ride back. (sniggers) So I just did something I don't like to do. I just took Valium and slept. (laughs)
THERAPIST: In the car?
CLIENT: Yes. It was a four-hour drive. Yeah, we were in a while away, basically. I thought, "This is going to be better for everyone if I'm unconscious." Also I get car sick, but mostly . . . safe. So that happened. [00:08:57] She was just—ughh. It was just an unfortunate ending to what had basically been a really nice weekend. I actually also ended up, unfortunately, cancelling dinner with a friend on Monday because I was so tired when I got back. I didn't think I could actually make it for dinner. The whole week was just very stressful.
THERAPIST: The week before or the week after? [00:09:35]
CLIENT: After I came back from camping on Monday, that Monday I was kind of tired and kind of stressed just coming back and the car trip. I thought I would just go to sleep and I would wake up and it would be better, and it really wasn't. I was really stressed and anxious all week. Part of it is this evening class twice a week is really tiring and I find it stressful in this weird way of it's super easy. I can't test out of it and I can't skip ahead. We have an hour lab so it's like an hour and fifteen minutes of lecture. [00:10:37]
THERAPIST: What is it?
CLIENT: (sighs) It's the required class in computers. It's even worse—using computers, the web, social media, Tech Web 2.0, web logs, etc. 
THERAPIST: For everybody that's required?
CLIENT: Yeah. (both laugh) And it's being taught by a colleague of mine, someone from Human Resources, and I can't cut it, and he takes attendance. You get two absences for free and they [ ] (inaudible at 00:11:21) you on points, which is something I loathe because I feel like a child when people do that. It's a requirement and the reason why you can't test out of it is because they want to make sure everyone who majors through the school knows these basic things, but it's kind of this hodge-podge of just stuff that doesn't really hang together, except for it's under the concept of technology. [00:11:55] I might learn two things I don't know, which is PHP and CSS, maybe; but I also feel like if I ever needed to know those things I would probably spend a week with a book and/or friends and then I would be able to do them—or I'd say we should hire it out. I just spent three hours in a lab learning the basic things we should have all learned in 1996, pretty literally, like starting a page with HTML and body and title. The way I feel about it is when I was in non-tracked classes like in middle school and somewhat in high school, I'm just sitting in there really bored, really frustrated. I kind of want to claw my face off and I can't do anything. During the lecture session I'm just on my laptop; but during lab, our computers are open and you can see your screen because it's a computer lab. He walks around sometimes to check on what you're doing, so it's really limited during the lab time to what I can do during the lab part that's not . . . 
THERAPIST: I see. You've basically got to do stuff with the class? [00:13:28]
CLIENT: Or is at least text-based, so there would probably be flashing images on my screen, except that I already know what we're doing. I actually turned in an assignment early because I thought that we were done, and his response was, "This can't be your finished assignment. I haven't finished teaching you this unit." I'm like, "Okay, (laughs) I guess it's not my finished assignment." It was sort of weird. I'm like, "I just went to the web and I . . ." but he wouldn't accept it. I'm like, "So it's just like 'You cannot know what I have not taught you yet,'" which is horrible. [00:14:21]
THERAPIST: I think is "infuriating" the word you want for this class?
CLIENT: It's kind of everything. I feel all these things about it. It's really infuriating because basically it's a class on something that I'm already paid to do and I'm beyond that level. I've been beyond that level for a very long time; and I really don't understand why he won't let me test out it. 
THERAPIST: Yeah, it's essentially like being in a foreign country where they speak a different language in an English class for non-English speakers. 
CLIENT: Yeah. It's just so horrible and also he's going at this really slow pace, which makes me super impatient and frustrated. I'm like, "Okay, if we're going to do these horrible, basic things, can this be quick?" No. It cannot be quick, and it makes me feel really stressed to sit there and have this person . . . it really feels like, to me, that he's kind of talking down to me. I mean I think he actually is a little bit condescending but, in theory, I think most of the class doesn't know, so it's not quite as condescending as intended. The teacher is sort of generic. My friends used to call him the fat, angry, bearded guys who run the Internet. He doesn't have the beard, but he definitely used to have one. He's a grumpy, older, geek guy with the greying ponytail and everything. He's also pretty good at  ] (inaudible at 00:16:22) I'm just like, "Oy, I can't stand that." 
I also had a little mini-meltdown in my head. This is talking about how if we were a user-interface specialist we could make a ton of money and he quoted something that was not that much above my current salary. I was like, "Oh, fuck. This is the most useless." It kind of reinforced that this is just a piece of paper. This is a completely useless degree right now. I couldn't get that job because I don't have an MLS; or it would be a lot harder to get that job because I don't have an MLS. And people wouldn't take me seriously without it. 
THERAPIST: Even though . . . 
CLIENT: It's exactly what I already do. Also, it kind of reminds me of all sorts of other people where I tell them things about computers or about a web face or whatever, and I get completely ignored.
THERAPIST: Because you don't have the degree? [00:17:29]
CLIENT: For a variety of reasons, including that I don't have that degree. Yeah, I mean it's like I'm a woman, I look younger, people perceive me as younger, I don't have an MLS. People are like "Oh, you're this techy person, therefore it makes no sense in libraries or they automatically assume I'm speaking gibberish. I'm like, "No, I . . . arghh." I have all these things which just make me really angry. Just the whole week I was feeling stressed, angry and exhausted. I don't get home from this class to my apartment until 11:00 PM.
THERAPIST: Wow. [00:18:17]
CLIENT: Yes, which sucks. And then I try to go to bed, which is always hard. I asked Chet if I can do flex-time two days a week; and I can't flex Fridays because the library closes at 5:00.
THERAPIST: I see. This is in summer?
CLIENT: Yeah. So I'm flexing Monday and Wednesday. Thursday I was just feeling like a rag and I was like, "I can't go to class. I just can't make it through," but I had an assignment to turn in. So I went in, turned in my assignment and went home. I just still felt horrible. On Friday, I had tickets to a friend's performance. I was at work thinking, "I can't go. I'm not entirely confident that I'm going to be okay making it through this entire day. I can't leave, though. I can't." For a little while I was just shaking with stress and anxiety, sitting at my desk shaking.
THERAPIST: On Friday?
CLIENT: Yes, which I don't usually do. Also I had [kicked up this big pit of anxiety] (inaudible at 00:19:41) about my teeth, which I also know was incredibly Freudian, but I was really anxious about my teeth. I'm always anxious about dental work and the gums around one of my teeth was bleeding and really tender and sore, and I was like, "Oh, I floss around my teeth every time I eat," and then I was like, "Oh, my God, does it look infected?" I was just incapable of being calm about it or rational or being like, "Your teeth are just bleeding. It's okay." I ended up getting a last minute appointment. I called my dentist on Friday and was like, "Can you just look at my teeth, please, for a minute?" and he did. He was basically like, "Yeah. Just relax." He was like, "There is some really minor damage. Just don't eat anything on this side for a week and you'll be fine." He made a joke like, "Does that feel $100 better?" and I was like, "Actually, it does." (laughs) [00:20:47] One of the things is he didn't charge me for it because it was so quick. But I'm like, "Yes, actually. I would have paid $100 to be able to stop obsessing about whether or not my gums are damaged and whether or not this is going to lead to [ ] (inaudible at 00:21:06) or a cracked tooth." It was just a bad week. [00:21:24] I had a horrible time sleeping the whole week, which is partially—it was a lot of things. My older cat that sleeps in my bed, when she is having thyroid problems she gets fussy and starts meowing for food really early. Sometimes she gets lost in my bedroom, which is super stressful. She's older and I don't want to do extraordinary measures to keep her alive. I think it's somewhat cruel to the pet, like I won't put her on a feeding tube. One of the signs that they're starting to lose their mental faculties is when they just seem like they are lost in a space they already know. So like she'll go into my bedroom closet and then meow plaintively like she's lost, so I have to go in, reassure her, or reach my hand in, which sometimes I end up hand-feeding her. That's also stressful and takes up more time in the morning because I have to do all of that. The end of the week, I don't feel this way right now but by Friday, I was just really freaked out and stressed and worried that I wouldn't be able to make it through this summer with this class emotionally. [00:23:10]
THERAPIST: What I'm wondering about is whether some of this has to do with your anxiety about how, not just infuriating, but this combination of infuriating and ignoring and unrecognizing that seems to come up a lot, where I sometimes get the feeling it's almost like you're being deliberately ignored for who you are or not recognized for what you are like. This is even more infuriating in a sort of helpless kind of way. I think something about it makes you really anxious. My impression is that this is related more to the teeth. Sometimes you feel like if you're that mad it's dangerous, so you [ ] (inaudible at 00:25:15) your teeth.
CLIENT: Yeah. Well, it's also like teeth crunching makes my teeth hurt. And then I'm like, "Oh, my God, what if it's like my teeth hurt and I never [ ] (inaudible at 00:25:23) ?" (laughs) and that's basically what I was worried about.
THERAPIST: Yeah, and actually that's something that's really destructive and then I think I'd be disgruntled a little bit. Anyway, it's not like you're losing your mind, which I think you were aware of yourself as well and, again, I think it's partly a reaction to feeling so helpless and being so angry, partly because of what's going on in the class, and the thing about what happened last weekend. [00:26:01]
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: Where, again, you were treated pretty badly in a way by that creepy, hair-braiding woman.
CLIENT: Yeah. Part of what made me angry about the hair-braiding woman was, thinking about it in my tent, "I don't think anyone here would give me any support on this." I'm actually pretty sure no one would.
THERAPIST: There is, again, that kind of helplessness, not having any other people there that know what's going on, on your own. It's like being mad but being almost deliberately ignored or misunderstood. [00:26:59]
CLIENT: Yeah. There's also this sort of—I was literally trapped at the campsite because you have to have a ride out.
THERAPIST: Sure. Sure—like in the class. I mean I guess you're not physically trapped there, but you're kind of, what would you say, academically trapped there or something? (chuckles)
CLIENT: Yeah. It does feel like I'm academically trapped. The other thing that happened when I was [ ] (inaudible at 00:27:30) I was really excited, embarrassingly excited. I was only embarrassed because I was trying not to express it at work. [ ] (inaudible at 00:27:44) He went over to either the teaching School or the business school. I can't remember. I think teaching to waste their money, which is going to be thrilling. He e-mailed saying, "I was thinking of getting these horrible videoscape tables in our library. What do you think?" I was like, "I think I'm going to black out with anger. Wow."
THERAPIST: He e-mailed you?
CLIENT: He e-mailed me and two other people asking for our insights. I haven't responded yet because I have nothing good to say, and also frustrating me was we had a sort of larger meeting, the working group, about this room and the tables, and I have not heard anyone say anything positive about these really. People don't want to use this room because they hate it. The instructors who came to the meeting wouldn't say that for political reasons. 
THERAPIST: But you had heard it from them. [00:28:57]
CLIENT: Directly. 
THERAPIST: They were going to throw you under the bus.
CLIENT: Yeah. I just know they will never say anything. It was so frustrating sitting there being like, "Okay. Now I feel like I sound like a crazy, negative person who is a luddite, which isn't true, and that I'm lying about what people had said."
THERAPIST: That's you being against technology again.
CLIENT: I know. I really hate it. It's the worst. So much. That social media bullshit. (sniggers) Also we're learning about Photoshop in this class, which I shudder to think, since I don't think we've seen Photoshop since 1957. Anyway, we used Photoshop in high school. It's one of those things where I'm just like lately I've been getting compliments on my excellent instructions that I wrote for videoscape tables. And it's a really hard compliment to accept. [00:30:28]
THERAPIST: (chuckles) I can see why you're suffering over it. It's just ironic, I think.
CLIENT: Yeah. I'm just like, "Thank you." And there is still this back-and-forth over what I'm allowed to actually say in that documentation.
THERAPIST: Yeah. I just had the fantasy of your instructions on this page saying, "Stay the fuck out of this room." [00:31:00]
CLIENT: I know. I am basically [lost in this "You can't do this. You can't do this," and the head of our team ] (inaudible at 00:31:05). I'm like, "But they should know they can't do that." At one of the working group meetings we were talking about some of the things we wanted and I was like, "Okay," and they were all things that would be things I would do. It's like, "We need to group sync this." I'm like, "And you want me to do that." And I said to the group, "Here's the thing, Karl, the head of our library, has already said 'no' to all of those things." The rest of the group was like, "No, don't say that." My job is to make these things happen. I'm like, "Okay, great. Just so you know, I've already tried all of these things and he said 'no' to all of them," so I guess—have fun with that. And she's already gotten two of them referred. She's the senior manager and, theoretically, at the same level as Karl; but it's also very depressing to be like, "You know, I want you to do things like the senior manager."
THERAPIST: And have the same idea.
CLIENT: Yes. [00:32:26] 
THERAPIST: That you had probably brought up?
CLIENT: Well, yeah. One of them I didn't really bring up very much because it's more work for me that I wasn't really interested in, was table talk directions. I would have to rewrite things I've already done. That fight was really insane since the reason why I was told not to, was because the table was supposed to be an intuitive interface; and to put directions on the table is to imply that it's not an easy, intuitive interface. Also, young people just know how to use technology instantly, but mostly because if you do that, that's acknowledging that maybe this is not flawless. I'm like, "Okay. I [ ] (inaudible at 00:33:29)." (pause) Yeah. Maybe the part about having this conversation with people is that—and by "people" I mean who are above the manager—is I'll get Chet, who is the senior manager or someone, will be like, "No, you shouldn't remove things. You should just reinput all the information. I'll be like, " Okay, here's the thing, someone else who is also a senior manager is telling me the opposite so I'm not making up what someone told me not to." And that person can actually just tell me to do it and I'm not sure I'm willing to get in the middle of that. I'm insubordinate to someone. I'm like, "Will you make that go?" and the answer is often, "We'll tell you that you should," but you don't get any support for it. It's such a (sigh) (pause) really exhausting position to be in. [00:34:55]
The class is really exhausting. It also keeps really reminding me of high school and middle school. I get the feeling of being when I wasn't in a tracked class, when I was in a class where, for me, the teacher is going excruciatingly slow and I'm not learning anything. For most of the class, it was fine and appropriate; but I would just . . . I don't know. It was a really weird feeling to sit there being super bored, but not really able to do anything about it and like in high school and middle school I really, really couldn't do anything about it because I just had to go to school; that's what you do. Also letting on that I was really bored because it wasn't challenging, getting teased, getting yelled at, social isolation, etc., I mostly didn't say anything. It brings up this sort of hopeless, unable to control my life or what's going on was kind of like teen-aged school feelings, which I don't like. I also never learned a great way to deal with that feeling, other than eventually I was allowed to take classes that were tracked again. [00:37:38] 
Eventually my junior and senior year, especially my senior year, we used to have homeroom in high school. You were in homeroom assigned randomly and so I was mixed with everyone. Part of the idea, which I think was good, was to sort of take everyone at different levels and throw them in with each other and you will learn about other people. What was super awkward was when they did things like give us our PSAT scores or SAT scores. I never wanted to say what I got and people would ask each other a lot. I would try to hide in the back and not say anything. I just didn't want to talk to anyone. It was hard to talk to anyone about anything that interested me, except when we were talking about schoolwork. I mostly felt super isolated and would usually read a book or put my head down on the desk or both. [00:39:05]
THERAPIST: Yeah. You were like alienated as well.
CLIENT: Yeah. It was really lonely and also really alienating; kind of a combination. The other thing which happened at one point and I am just still kind of . . . in one of the classes I had that wasn't tracked but was an elective so anyone could take it, there was a kid in the class who was one of the bad kids, was smoking and etc., and had a horrible temper, and was in very low-level classes—he was actually really fucking smart, but his parents didn't really care about him, the school system didn't really care, and he had a terrible attitude. He should have been in the accelerated classes with me and other people. It was just this really odd thing. I was like, "You're actually really awesome. I kind of want to be friends and talk to you, except that you are putting up this artificial front of being this dumb, bad kid for whatever reason; and it's really hard for us to interact past that." So we would talk in class, but never outside of class. I also felt really frustrated and mad that he was not able to get—like the school was really good. He could have gotten a really first-class high school education for a variety of reasons. [00:41:26]
THERAPIST: It's almost like a lot of these things work out pretty badly for you, but you were at least getting a decent education or a good education. You got that out of the deal and probably in some situations being recognized in a positive way.
CLIENT: Yeah. But for him it was kind of the combination of everything like he's from a poor family, no one expects him to be smart, and he had this big, bitter, resentful front, and I also think he had undiagnosed learning disability plus some other things. I was like, "You really should be going to college. You are totally smart." I think part of why he had such a horrible temper and attitude was that he knew it. [00:42:19]
THERAPIST: How badly does he fail?
CLIENT: At least by junior or senior year he knew and sort of handled it. What was frustrating in that class we took together was that the two teachers were trying to be supportive of him, but two teachers versus the whole school, and at that point—junior or senior year—it's like it's already happened.
THERAPIST: It's like the die has already been cast.
CLIENT: It was really depressing. I would also think how frustrated I was in easy classes and how frustrated he must be. He expressed himself by kicking desks over, which I could not, which was part of why he was treated so crappily.
THERAPIST: We'll stop for now.
END TRANSCRIPT
