TRANSCRIPT OF AUDIO FILE:
______________________________________________________________________________
BEGIN TRANSCRIPT:
CLIENT: How are things going?
THERAPIST: Good.
CLIENT: I'm sleepy. I'm exhausted. I didn't sleep well last night. I don't know why. I kept waking up almost every hour. I don't know if Cecelia was waking me up or I just was waking up, or I don't know. 
THERAPIST: Dreaming?
CLIENT: Yeah, she had a bunch of dreams. I'm having trouble remembering. I didn't write them down unfortunately. And then basically once I was up around 6:30 I kind of stayed awake until 8:00, and then I kind of fell asleep, but I still got up at 9:00. I should probably start exercising again. I think I'm very restless. I think it's post kick starter. You know I just feel antsy. [00:01:22]
THERAPIST: That was the feeling that you would wake up in the middle of the night even antsiness?
CLIENT: Yeah. I mean even going to sleep I think I wasn't—I was tired but—I don't know. I just feel antsy. We had band practice and that makes me sometimes even more because I'm thinking about the songs and I just get worked up a little bit. I don't know. (Pause) Yeah, I don't know. It's weird. I was so hyper focused and now I feel like I'm kind of at that place again where I'm having trouble concentrating. It's like I don't know what to do with myself. (inaudible at 00:02:17) even just a few minutes if I could like running or something. [00:02:26]
THERAPIST: There may be a let down happening too from all of the energy you need to pour into that.
CLIENT: Yeah it's like decompression or deflating. It's like oh all right that happened. And I think its because the next phase is not a particularly glamorous—there's nothing exciting per say about it. It's just all nuts and bolts logistical kind of stuff. Maybe that's part of what it is. I don't know. [00:03:04]
(Pause) Or excuse me. I'm sorry. I was also wondering like I hope I didn't... I already spend a fair amount of time online because I don't have a TV, I don't you know, I wonder like I hope I didn't get (pause) too sucked in like Twitter or Facebook checking all the time. You know what I mean? 
THERAPIST: Uh huh.
CLIENT: I feel like maybe... which would only make sense. I mean if there's a month of hours, and hours, and hours of social networking online and all this shit. Like now I think I feel like it's almost like a fix. So I wonder if that has something to do with it. [00:04:04]
THERAPIST: And it can have that kind of addictive quality.
CLIENT: Yeah, because you're meeting people just virtually you're all over the place. It's exciting. It's cool. But I mean I don't think that's—it's not something I cared that much about before. (Pause) I think in general it's just a let down. I just feel kind of like... (Pause).
THERAPIST: You describe it a little bit like a rush of (inaudible at 00:05:07) someone else liking you, someone else liking you, and how quickly that fills you up, but then it's over. It just reminds me a little bit of relationships. [00:05:21]
CLIENT: Yeah, exactly. That's what I'm saying like I don't want to get... Yeah, I can sense that. It's like yeah validation and then it's like a distraction. It's sensory stuff, but I don't want to get caught up in that. I mean or it could be something who knows. I don't know. Maybe it's that now I'm restless with this next phase. Like now I just want to get this record out and I want the band to get better and better. Maybe I'm nervous maybe like now I'm all right I want to finish other new songs and write good songs. I don't know. Like you know I think when you're ambitious and you're really trying to reach certain things I think it's just—especially when you can start tasting it, you know what I mean, like that part's over. So it's like now I can't say I don't have the money to put out a record. Like now it's just about doing things so maybe that's a little unnerving or something. [00:06:35]
THERAPIST: Now it's on you.
CLIENT: Yeah, now it's just there's no way to say oh well I can't... Like there are no excuses now where in the past I think I'd latch onto something. But now it's like I've got a band, I've got the money to put out the record, I've got new songs so it almost feels kind of overwhelming maybe a little bit. (Pause) It's probably like a little bit of all these things. 
THERAPIST: Uh huh. There's no more room for exposure too in an odd way. You can both be feeling really good and confident about what you've accomplished but also it's in your hands now. It's in your hands now. There isn't money to blame for being the obstacle. [00:07:35]
CLIENT: Yeah. I think now that I'm in this phase where now I fully see that wow I'm really able to make things happen. It's not about some weird random luck or whatever. Yeah, that's a little nerve racking too. But also I think I'm just tired. I think it was just a crazy fucking month. It's like my mind and my body are just kind of like just... (Pause)
THERAPIST: I think I would also imagine there's a rush of starting this too. Like even just the commitment to doing it and the facilitation of it actually being able to happen can feel really good, and exciting, and it seems like this is happening, and it's good. And it feels like you've said a number of times over the last month I feel like I'm reaping off the benefits right now of all the work I put in like something was culminating in a rush here. But once you're now in it then what? There's that. Okay, so you're here. [00:08:59]
CLIENT: Right. Right. Right. Yeah maybe part of it too is now it's work like now it is like going to a job. It's not about validation or its just about doing shit now, you know, artwork and just stuff that no one's—it's nothing to really share on the Internet or you know what I mean. It's like pushing papers or whatever. [00:09:34]
THERAPIST: It's not as glamorous.
CLIENT: Yeah, there's nothing glamorous about it. I don't know. I'm not sure. (Pause) I mean I only have about two of these days, and it's half water so I doubt it's doing that much, but I wonder now maybe... It's not helping. 
THERAPIST: Have you been this whole month? 
CLIENT: As the weather got cooler... When it was warmer I would just have one iced latte every day. That was it. As it's gotten cooler and I've discovered this combo it's half hot water, half light roast I'm sure it's not much caffeine at all, but still it's Starbucks. Two of those... I don't always finish two of them, but if you're already feeling kind of... So I don't know. Who knows. [00:10:40]
THERAPIST: It's Starbucks.
CLIENT: Yeah. Yeah. I mean even the light roast... Yeah. So I mean it's cool. In a way I'm not really stressing about it which is nice. I'm like oh yeah I'm fucking tired you know. This was a really intense month you know. (Pause) A lot of things change mostly good but coming here there's been a lot of change. (Pause) Change in weather even. [00:11:33]
THERAPIST: What's it felt like coming here more often?
CLIENT: Awesome. It's great.
THERAPIST: How so? 
CLIENT: First of all it's a nice routine. I mean really it's like going to the gym for your—so it's cool. Yeah, it's great. I like it like I look forward to it. It's really awesome. I mean this is another thing I feel like now I'm reaping the rewards of having stuck with this all these years. Because I mean you've been really nice and all of that is because it's years and years of whatever the professional relation. Like all these things I feel like are about investing time and sticking to it. [00:12:37]
THERAPIST: When you say you've been really nice what do you mean? 
CLIENT: Well the money. You don't have to do—I'm sure that's very gracious of... 
THERAPIST: It looks like that meant a lot to you.
CLIENT: Yeah, it's changed because now I don't stress about whether I can afford it, or I feel bad, or guilty. So now I'm excited to come because I'm like all right I'm on top of it and hopefully things will change and I can adjust it. But yeah it's just a really generous thing. [00:13:22]
THERAPIST: I think I wondered if there was even some kind of feeling about it the rush of feeling about that alone. I had a feeling the one time you talked about it. 
CLIENT: Yeah. I was just super excited that you would be willing to do that. Yeah totally, totally. That's awesome. 
THERAPIST: What must it mean?
CLIENT: Well I mean especially on something that you're so willing (pause)... Like if you're really ready to do something like this it kind of sucks that just because of that you can't. That's a bummer. It's not like buying shoes or something. It's about your emotional and mental health. If someone can find a way to help you that means a lot. [00:14:18]
(Pause) But yeah I just think now it's like... I haven't exercised in a long time now. I think I've been needing to anyway. But I think that now that everything else is good I think your body's important. You got to make, at least a little bit, effort. I think it changes your energy, and your mood, and a lot of things. And now there's really no excuse. I'm not... I need to somehow get more motivated on that front. [00:15:11]
THERAPIST: (Pause) What would stop you?
CLIENT: I don't know what it's been with that. I don't know why I haven't. I was in such a good stretch there. I don't know what the problem is. I really don't. I think I just feel... I mean some of it is I think it's because I feel good. Do you know what I mean? I just want to be home, and cozy, and I'm just enjoying this phase. But I think I'm forgetting that this is what happens at least with me. By default I just start feeling restless and lethargic. That's because I'm not exerting physical energy. It's like I sit at home, I go to Starbucks, I sit there. I drive now so I'm not walking the way I used to. I just don't like that. I can feel it. [00:16:13]
So I don't know what it is. I don't get it. It literally take 20 minutes. I'm a two minute drive from the gym. Fifteen minutes on the treadmill just interval really fast that's the best way to do it anyway. So I don't know what the issue is. I don't know. (Pause)
THERAPIST: It's work. 
CLIENT: It's what?
THERAPIST: It's work. 
CLIENT: I guess. Yeah maybe it's just another thing. I'm just like oh like even putting the gym clothes on and then coming back and showering. Or maybe because I like my routine now and I don't want to... I don't know. I don't what the fuck it is but it's not good. The place is open until 11:00. There's no you know... Maybe that should be my thing this next week. I should just be like I'm just going to go twice. You know just keep it very realistic, twice, 10 or 15 minutes, bust my ass on the treadmill because that's the way I did it last time. And once I did it, of course, I was totally into it once it got going. And then I'd go and I'd get on the treadmill 10, 15 minutes, and I'd be like fuck this I'm just getting warmed up and I'd run. I'm a decent runner. I can usually pick it up and run three miles, three and a half miles. [00:17:48]
THERAPIST: And it feels good once you're...
CLIENT: Oh yeah. Oh man when you're all sweaty and shit that's awesome. Yeah, I love that feeling. So yeah I think I just need to start without any pressure. (Pause)
THERAPIST: Start with small goals. 
CLIENT: Yeah. So I'm going to see Lucy on Monday a chick I really like. I kind of made plans with Gwen for tomorrow, but it's really weird this is the first time I feel like I shouldn't do that. Isn't that weird? That's weird right? Not weird, but I've only been on two dates with Lucy. There's no reason why... There's nothing exclusive per say obviously about it. But for some reason I feel like I just... I like this girl. I just want to focus on that. I don't know. [00:19:02]
THERAPIST: This shouldn't isn't I shouldn't go out with Gwen not just that shouldn't in general date two people at the same time?
CLIENT: I mean, of course, I've done that. I'm saying this is the first time in a long time where I don't want to do that. Like I just want to date this girl. 
THERAPIST: Just Lucy. That's what I'm saying. This is specific to Lucy as opposed to just in theory not doing it.
CLIENT: No. No. I have no problem with that. But yes the first time in a long time like I just... I don't know. I don't know. I don't know what to make of it. You know what I mean because it's definitely too soon to feel that exclusive about it. Or is it? I don't know. You know I've had such a history of dating five chicks at the same time maybe this is good. You like somebody and you just want to devote your time to them. [00:20:03]
THERAPIST: There's definitely no need to get married tomorrow. 
CLIENT: Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, no yeah. No yeah, right, right, right, yeah. I mean who the hell knows what's going to happen. I don't know. But there's just something about—it just feels nice like I just want to... I don't know. 
THERAPIST: That's where your interest is. 
CLIENT: Yeah. Like I'd rather save my energy and myself in some ways like mentally, physically, emotionally, even financially honestly. I'm starting to... I'm not very responsible when it comes to that. It's like you know it's fun to date, and I'm pretty gentlemanly when it comes to that. I don't go on dates and oh we'll split it and shit like that. I don't do that. I usually pick up the tab. 
THERAPIST: That can be expensive too.
CLIENT: Yeah. And I hate talking about it. I'm not trying to be a penny pincher. I'm just saying...
THERAPIST: Why do you hate talking about? 
CLIENT: I mean I don't know. I don't want to be one of those guys that talks about it like oh I'm spending a lot of money on dating. Whatever. That's what people do. That's not... But you know what I mean. It's a turn off to me when girls talk about that. (Pause) You know what I'm saying? There's something crass about it like money talk like that. Well then just don't do it. Don't talk about it. Something about it... Or I'm thinking maybe that's stupid. I mean Gwen's awesome and maybe I should see what happens. I don't know. I have no idea. [00:21:49]
Or I was thinking I could split the difference instead of going out just come over and we'll hang out. I don't know. Because now I kind of feel like all right I'm going to see Lucy Monday so I'd rather just have a mellow weekend. You know what I mean? Like some of it's just about taking care of myself because I know I'll probably go out tonight a little bit, and then go out again tomorrow night with a girl I may or may not be... You know I just feel like I'd rather just stay at home. [00:22:35]
THERAPIST: It's hard to hear what's wrong with those feelings.
CLIENT: I don't think anything's wrong. I also wonder if it's too impulsive. I do like Gwen. I don't want to be impulsive and the potential that might be there just because I had two awesome dates with this girl. I wonder if that's a little too... But yeah you're right. At the end of the day it doesn't matter because if I feel like I just want to relax and just have another weekend then that's what I want to do. [00:23:18]
THERAPIST: Maybe you're questioning what if you're giving up on something that actually has potential for something that seems great right now but what if it isn't. 
CLIENT: Right. 
THERAPIST: And I guess the question beneath that is to what degree is what you feel for Lucy versus Gwen actually genuinely a difference in your interest in a real person or is there something about you had the rush with Gwen and then the being disenchanted and now you're in the rush with Lucy and you just haven't had the disenchantment yet.
CLIENT: Right, right, right. I mean it does feel different in the sense that... I mean I haven't been on that many dates with Gwen. Three. We just have a real... It's just been a kind of intense connection and all that. But even after the first date it was awesome but I didn't feel this butterfly thing. I just didn't. Like I get excited when Lucy texts me. You know what I mean? And with Gwen it's awesome but if she doesn't then she doesn't. [00:24:33]
THERAPIST: And yet also by the time you're six months or a year into a relationship are you really being known? It probably won't be butterflies. 
CLIENT: Well yeah, yeah, yeah. No, of course.
THERAPIST: And that's also a question. What does that actually mean?
CLIENT: Butterflies?
THERAPIST: Uh huh.
CLIENT: Well I think it's the difference between really being into someone and potentially loving somebody. That's how I see it. I mean when I went out with Samantha, for example, or Michelle, Meredith, all three of those chicks I would never look at another girl. I didn't give a shit. I was just focused. Now that was kind of for the wrong reasons. That's different. You know what I mean. In this case things are so different... I know she has a kid. I know she's not perfect. I know it's not going to be some fairy tale, whatever. You know what I mean? But I really, really like her like in a way that's not just like (pause)... You can't explain these things. I don't know. There's just something about her like I just really, really... [00:25:54]
THERAPIST: (Pause) I think one of the things that you're grabbling with is taking in how you feel right now about someone who is exciting and holding the history of other people who have been exciting maybe not in the exact same ways but as much feeling. You know when you came in after the first date with Gwen it was you're saying nothing you've ever felt before in your entire life were your own words. And so what does that mean then? [00:26:39]
CLIENT: Compared to this.
THERAPIST: Compared to Lucy. 
CLIENT: Because I think that was very adult. I was just shocked at the adultness of it. It was nice. It was cool. It was just really good. You know what I mean? She's beautiful and all that stuff. That's the thing. I'm saying I don't want to not... I'm a little confused I think is what I'm saying. But with Lucy there's all that the kind of adultness of it then the chemistry's even more. You know what I mean? [00:27:21]
THERAPIST: So maybe some of the initial newness of what was happening with Gwen was sort of the changes in you.
CLIENT: Yeah right.
THERAPIST: Being in a relationship with someone that's healthy and afraid.
CLIENT: Remember what I was saying it was being in (inaudible at 00:27:34) like just the whole thing...
THERAPIST: Was so different.
CLIENT: Yeah. Yeah. And that's awesome. I'm not saying... Yeah. (Pause). That's probably what I'll do. I'll be like can I just come over and hang out. (Pause) I think also what it is I think with Gwen she's really beautiful and she's woman, but maybe after that babbling incident she seems so girly a little bit in that moment or not girly but something. Whereas with Lucy she's kind of quiet and not reserved but a little bit like she's... Like even her texts are very... There's no fucking emoticons or whatever. They're very dry—not dry—but well kind of dry. Her humor's really dry. [00:28:38]
THERAPIST: Contained.
CLIENT: Yeah, there's something contained about her. But at the same time contained but then when we were hanging out she took my hand. There's something in terms of just a romantic connection that's somehow different. I don't know. Who the hell knows. I don't know. 
THERAPIST: Well it also sounds like it feels mature. [00:29:02]
CLIENT: Yeah. There's something mature about it. There's something honest about it. I mean Gwen's honest too, but Gwen's definitely (pause) not been as like I can't follow her texts. Remember I was saying... With Lucy she might not text as often but then suddenly she does and then when she does it's very honest. Kind of like today she was like I really wish we could go out tonight. She had her kid a lot so it's hard. I was like well Monday will be here soon and maybe we can plan ahead for the next weekend. So she's very thoughtful and kind of... Yeah. I don't know. I mean who the hell knows. She could be a nut job. I have no idea. But for right now... [00:30:01] 
THERAPIST: (Pause) It's so new to be thinking about relationships with another more whole person from a place of genuine confidence in you. And I think there's probably still work to be done with that, but what you've been describing it's not the confidence at winning her over in a bar as a kind of object, and pursuit, and goal that gets met that solidifies your self esteem because it's met. This sounds more like you actually starting to evaluate who are these people. And maybe there isn't something about Gwen that has anything to do with a pedestal stuff but it just isn't as good a fit. You get to know actually really what's a good fit in a person instead of just the checklist of the pedestal. [00:31:12]
CLIENT: Right. Right. And then that way I don't feel the need to juggle because I think in the past the juggling was just about because you're getting attention. It's constant validation from different chicks on that. It's pretty fucking awesome. But it's exhausting and you can't focus kind of because you're constantly just spread too thin and its draining. 
THERAPIST: It depletes in more ways than one. Even financially I mean that's a legitimate thing. 
CLIENT: No absolutely.
THERAPIST: But emotionally you're saying that would happen too?
CLIENT: Yeah. Yeah. 
THERAPIST: When you don't need it as much for the attention so that more is always better now it's not. 
CLIENT: Yeah. Like now I just feel like I honestly either want to just see my friends or I just want to be at home with my cat. I love it. There are no issues. You know what I mean. It sounds ridiculous but there you have it. [00:32:21]
THERAPIST: Does it sound ridiculous?
CLIENT: Well the cat thing I still can't get over it. I still can't get over it.
THERAPIST: Can't get over yourself?
CLIENT: I'm sorry but see this is how retarded I am I have to show random—not random people—but this is what I've become. 
THERAPIST: Proud cat dad.
CLIENT: I took this picture when I woke up the other morning.
THERAPIST: Oh.
CLIENT: That is how I woke up. 
THERAPIST: Oh goodness.
CLIENT: I mean that's fucked up. 
THERAPIST: She snuggles. 
CLIENT: That's just ridiculous. I'm disgusting myself. A year ago I would've been like all right settle down there. That's unbelievable. I don't know. I can't get over it. It's just so awesome and new. It's really cool. [00:33:21]
THERAPIST: It almost doesn't feel like you it's so different.
CLIENT: Yeah, yeah, yeah. It's like... But isn't this how it works? I've read that sometimes people that work really hard on themselves, or whatever, that sometimes it is really fast whatever that next; after years of work or whatever it takes that all these things do sometimes happen very quickly. And they're not done with the work but just whatever that next... So maybe it's kind of like what the fuck I have a cat, I've raised five grand you know, I have a job where people seem to like me and there's no issues, and I have my days. I don't know. It's unnerving a little bit. [00:34:20]
THERAPIST: I think you've been working really hard in a number of different ways that make what is coming together right now kind of all come together at the same time including the fact that that ordinary life you just described, even though there might be other kinds of aspirations and goals, it feels so good. You would've once described that as that's the boring old farts like that's not what I want to settle for. The fact that ordinary starts to feel really good. 
CLIENT: Yeah, yeah, yeah. I think what I like about it is I think what's paid off is combining an ordinary life with not an ordinary—with my goals. There's nothing wrong with the ordinary part. It's just when that's all there is. But the ordinary becomes such a comfortable refuge. You know what I mean? You're playing shows. You're doing the things you want to do. Those things are tiring, and they're draining, but they're things you love so there's nothing better than going somewhere peaceful at the end of the day and having a litter critter you love. That ordinariness is great. It's crazy. [00:35:50]
THERAPIST: You also the way you describe it, it sounds like one thing that's happening to you you're feeling more love and affection. 
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: A kind of softer side of love.
CLIENT: Yeah, big time, yeah. Yeah, like sometimes when I'm with Cecelia—like I said even Dave's dog I almost kind of like...
THERAPIST: Just thinking about it.
CLIENT: Yeah, I almost got kind of emotional. There's something about—I don't know what the fucks happening. I think something has just opened up where I'm more accepting of people. I mean when was the last time I said anything about open-toed shoes? You know what I mean? I mean I still hate them, but I've just kind of gotten over certain things and just kind of I'm more—I don't know. I think once I decided to just be more compassionate I think that was the first. If you can really, really do it instead of just saying it it's a big deal. Yeah, it just kind of makes you a lot warmer. [00:37:03]
THERAPIST: Well I actually wonder if it's once you felt compassion here the idea of my helping you make this happen. 
CLIENT: Yeah totally.
THERAPIST: I could imagine it could feel like...
CLIENT: Yeah, somebody cares. Oh yeah. Of course. Absolutely. Yeah. I mean some of my good friends you know I've been lucky. So yeah definitely. (Pause)
I mean even yesterday it was such a small thing but I was kind of shocked. The drummer was like hey I kind of wrote this melody thing, whatever, and he's like I was thinking this would be kind of your thing. And I was kind of taken back by that because he's a good song writer like that could've just been on his record. He's like if figured we could turn it into—it's like your kind of style or whatever. We could turn it into something. I was like wow you know. That's a very gracious sweet thing. And, of course, he's part of the band so it's not like he's not just giving it to me. But still he didn't have to do that. [00:38:48]
THERAPIST: He could take it for his own record label.
CLIENT: Yeah, and he's 24. He could be much more insecure you know what I mean. And that was really cool. But see what goes around comes around. Last week we had told him that the three of us would pay more for the rent so that he wouldn't have to pay as much because he's 24. He's seriously broke. He moved here from San Francisco. So maybe I think these things have a way of—I believe in that you know. It's energy. [00:39:30]
THERAPIST: Or when you feel loved you feel more loving. I think that's what you've been describing. 
CLIENT: Yeah. 
THERAPIST: But I don't think you've always felt this (inaudible at 00:39:41).
CLIENT: No. Well I did but it was bottled up because I always felt shy or it felt like it was one direction only or something. I don't know. 
THERAPIST: Yeah. It doesn't always sound like you felt that lovable.
CLIENT: Lovable? Oh you mean that other people felt that way. Yeah, yeah, yeah. No, that's true. Yeah that's true. No I didn't. Are you kidding? It was the opposite. I hated myself. Yeah, no. That guy always thought people thought I was ugly. I was just very focused on those kinds of things. [00:40:31]
THERAPIST: That you own family did.
CLIENT: Right. 
THERAPIST: You can't love another cute fluffy thing that smells, and is alive, and whatever, this dog in all of it's coolness until you felt that towards yourself. 
CLIENT: Right. Yeah, that's true.
THERAPIST: It does feel like what we know about your mother. At least you got kind of knit picked and broken down into parts that were...
CLIENT: Well and not just me. I would also overhear everything everybody—which in some cases is worse because you're like wow they're saying these things about Trish, or Josh, or what the fuck like everyone's going through that. [00:41:35]
THERAPIST: That's how bad it is.
CLIENT: Yeah. Yeah. 
THERAPIST: No one's loved. That's horrible. 
CLIENT: Right. Right. But even that maybe that's also... I see a change in my mom. That's even a very sweet thing. It' not perfect and it doesn't make up for... That's a big deal. You know other people's parents even go to the worse—they get worse. You know what I mean. I don't know what's happened but she's just... I give myself a little bit of credit, but still I know lots of people that they can have as many blowouts with their parents as they want it's just entrenched. I give her a lot of credit. [00:42:27]
THERAPIST: (Pause) Well that's another way I think you're reaping the benefits of all the hard work you've put in even with her.
CLIENT: Yeah. It sounds weird to say it like that, but yeah I agree. Like once I kind of gave her a piece of my mind like really gave her a piece of my mind...
THERAPIST: And in several different circumstances over time.
CLIENT: Yeah. And each time got more articulate and more confident. No, I think she just was like wait a minute. 
THERAPIST: She couldn't help you as a child find that voice, but you've found it in the work you've been doing here. And sharing it has actually been effective even with your own mother. She's moving.
CLIENT: Yeah. And in some ways I think it's given her more confidence. All I've ever wanted... I was like you people are just so insecure. It's helped make her a little more... [00:43:36]
THERAPIST: Helped her.
CLIENT: Yeah, it's pretty cool. I don't know how much time we have but I told my uncle about the thing you said. So one thing he didn't understand is he was like—and maybe I didn't explain it right, but he didn't understand how even if they went as a couple to see a therapist what would be the enforcing part. How could they still make... If he's 22 or 20... You know what I mean? 
THERAPIST: This is where it gets tough on parents. The enforcing part is that they have to be prepared to lay down financial consequences. [00:44:21]
CLIENT: Okay. All right. So that's what you're saying and that's what I said. I think all it is, is things you've already thought of but now you have someone professional, whose neutral, someone who deals with these things basically on your team to help you.
THERAPIST: And someone holding you accountable to follow through on what you say. If you say to him you have to either enroll in a class or get a job in the next two months or else you can't live here anymore and you're cut off from financial streams, then you have to do that. And sadly in some of these situations it takes going there before some kids learn.
CLIENT: Well what do you mean you have to? You mean you have to do that because the therapist would be like did you do it or not? I mean obviously there's no legal I mean...
THERAPIST: Oh yeah. No. But in order for it to be effective, in order for it to be an effective intervention with a child you have to stick to it. As long as he senses that they're not going to do anything he can just keep living off them and not have to do much. [00:45:29]
CLIENT: Yeah, that's what I said. Basically I think what it is, is that it's just that person is backing you up constantly not just saying things but an actual concrete plan. So I got you correctly. Good. Yeah, I don't know. I don't want to tell him too much more because I felt like maybe he was a little uncomfortable—not uncomfortable. It's not him. I think she has so much pride and maybe she's so involved in it that she, I think, it's hard for her to go see a psychologist. I don't know. I don't know what it is. [00:46:13]
THERAPIST: And her pride will be destructive to her son. 
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: You're in the right here.
CLIENT: Yeah. That's what I told them.
THERAPIST: You can get on a name. (inaudible at 00:46:22).
CLIENT: Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah. No the thing is it's just sad because otherwise this'll just keep going and going. And I used myself as an example. I said otherwise he's going to have to deal with stuff psychologically when he's in his 30's. He's going to blink his eyes and... I said it's taken me a while. I've had to work hard. I'm glad I did. I'm still kind of young whatever. I get all that. But still if someone when I was 21 had helped me it would be different, and they're willing to help him. I was like you've really got a—that person will help you see things through so this doesn't drag on, and on, and on. [00:47:07]
THERAPIST: (Pause) I wonder what I means for me to give my advice.
CLIENT: It's awesome. It's helpful because I think they're just hesitant. His whole thing is I think he needs to see somebody. It's probably true, but you can't force him, and you're going crazy so you guys need some help anyway. I was like it'll probably also help you guys with your emotions. One parent wants to do things one way. You know what I mean? You're just going nuts. It's just the same thing over and over again. [00:48:08]
THERAPIST: Just getting an outside perspective to lay eyes on the situation.
CLIENT: Yeah. And the thing is I said what could it hurt too? Like lets say you go and it sucks well who cares.
THERAPIST: I mean you don't even have to think of it as family therapy. It's just a consultation. They can go once just as a couple. 
CLIENT: Yeah. So I have a feeling they will because nothing's changing. 
THERAPIST: So Monday?
CLIENT: Monday at 12:50.
THERAPIST: Monday at 3:10.
CLIENT: Son of a bitch. All right Monday and Friday at 3:10.
THERAPIST: Yeah.
CLIENT: All right. Thanks a lot. Have a good weekend. 
THERAPIST: You too. [00:48:57]
END TRANSCRIPT
