*TEXT-PV010405  19 October 1970
______________________________________________________________________________
PATIENT:   (3-minute silence)  I've been thinking about a, uhm, thing that happened last night, and—.  How, I don't know, what seemed to upset me the most was right in the middle of when this was happening I thought of Friday and what I'd said at the end of Friday.  And that sort of has popped up all through the weekend, every once in a while.  And I always had the same feeling I had here of—, I don't know.  Well, I, I think I was feeling afraid here, after I said that I wanted to have your penis in me, but I think when I was home it was more a feeling—, I don't know if afraid is exactly right, but— (deep breath), sort of how can I face myself, or something like that.
And I didn't understand why it came into my mind right in the middle of yesterday, I m,, well last night when this thing happened.  But what—, what was going on was, uhm, we're going up next weekend to PNOTS, and we'll be staying at my parents and the BFMs will be staying with us.  And I don't know, I, I mean I g,, I always go through the same thing whenever we're staying with my parents I think anyway, of, uhm, well, sort of a combination of wanting to plan things to an extent or wanting to have something going on, but on the other hand just wanting to wait and see what they do.  But really it, it's a hope that they'll do something I guess, and they never do.
So anyway, I knew that it would be so this time, as it is always, and I'd said to MSCZ several weeks ago that I thought we really should plan things the way we wanted to do them, and then go ahead with it, and he agreed.  But we didn't agree on how we wanted to plan things.  Because I kept feeling that we were staying with my parents so we couldn't just ignore them.  Even though often when we've gone up there they've said, "Well, we have this engagement or that so we'll see you later."  Uhm, and MSCZ kept pointing that out to me and saying, "Well, they do that so we shouldn't feel any hesitation of not including them."  But I, I don't know just couldn't.  And par, part of it was because I wanted to, at some point, well, in a way it was asking FYC and MEIR to join us for something, like going out for dinner or something like that.  And I, I just was feeling I couldn't leave my parents out if I asked FYC and MEIR and so it's—.  But anyway, MSCZ kept saying, "Well, they always have something they do—."  This is for the KQ|HT game—, and, and generally it does seem they go somewhere every time on Saturday night we've been up for the KQ|HT game.  And so he said, "They probably'll have something already and it won't be any trouble."
So last night I finally couldn't put off calling any longer.  I've been thinking about doing it for at least 2 weeks now (sniff), and I called up and I said, "I just wanted to check with you on any plans you've made and then plans we'd like to make."  Because again—, and MSCZ immediately started getting mad at me in the o,, in the living room.  I was in the bedroom calling.  And so he—, what he said my mother couldn't hear, but I could (sniff).  And saying things—, well this he really said after of how, "You know you should never ask your mother what plans she has, because she never has any" and, uhm.
But in any case, then I had thought our compromise—, because the BFMs wanted to do some different things, too, was that we would—, if she said, "We didn't have any plans," I would say—.  And she said to me, which I would have expected, "You can plan whatever you want" or "What would you want to do."   And so I went into, "Well, you can—, we'd like to go out to dinner and you can—, you—.  We'd love have you join us if you'd like."  Or something like that and MSCZ got mad.  That was when he really started shouting in the living room about how, "You know I can't stand to eat with your—, go out to dinner with your father."  And, "You shouldn't have said that."  Or "Don't say it."  And, "Take it back."  Or things like this, which was getting me very upset, since I was still on the phone.  And, I don't know, then I had to clarify a few other things about the weekend.  And I mentioned that I hoped at some point we'd be able to see FYC and MEIR, but no attempt had been made to get the family together in any form, uhm, according to my—.  My mother didn't indicate there had been any.
And, uhm, and then when I got off, MSCZ really—, got off the phone—, MSCZ really got mad at me and said I—.  I don't know, he accused me of wanting to sort of almost—, I can't remember his words but it was almost like parade my friends in front of my parents or something as if I had some motive that I don't really think I had.  But I didn't know what motive I did have, what I—.
I knew I had wanted to do things somewhat differently.  I'd wanted to have dinner at home.  There was another couple, friends of ours, that MSCZ doesn't enjoy for very long periods, that we haven't seen for a very long time.  Well, really the girl is—, it's FN, somebody I grew up with and, uhm, she's alright.  It's her husband who gets kind of boring.  So MSCZ had said he didn't want them to go out to dinner with us.  And my solution had been to have a Saturday night dinner at home that I did, and, uhm, so that then my parents were included if they were staying home, and anybody else that we wanted to have would be there.  And it seemed to be the best solution, for me.  But MSCZ didn't like it, so that was why we were going to go out and then I was going to ask FN and her husband for Sunday brunch, and FYC and MEIR if they couldn't come on Saturday—, go with us on Saturday and—.
I don't know, the whole thing was just—, it was getting beyond the way I had wanted to do things, and so I thought when I was on the phone I was doing it the way we'd agreed would be the best way to handle it.  And then when I get off, MSCZ attacks me and says all these things and—.  It just left me feeling, I didn't know.  I mean I, I understood I hadn't done things exactly the way I wanted and that's why it wasn't working so well, as far as I was concerned.  But I think at that point I didn't know what I had really wanted.  Because in a way I don't really want to go up at all.  But in another way I do.  Or since I am, there's something I want from going up, and—.  And then right in the middle of thinking about that and—, I don't know.  I, I mean I knew I was upset by MSCZ's getting mad at me unreasonably.  And because something else was bothering me that if it hadn't been I would have been able to have a much more "Well, he's just upset and he'll get over it, and he doesn't really mean some of the things he's been saying" attitude.  Or something anyway, instead of feeling terribly hurt and influenced by what he was saying and—.
And, eh, in any case, right in the middle of this I thought of Friday.  And then I—, then I just felt awfully upset.  And I didn't understand the co—, I still don't really  understand the connection.  Except this morning when I woke up, it just seemed clear to me, something that hadn't seemed clear before.  Or I knew that there was some—, some need on my part—, a desire on my part for the family to be together when I go up and, uhm—.  I don—, it's almost as if what I really want is to go up and be, in a way, the center of attention.  Not just because I'm pregnant, although that makes it more I suppose acute a feeling, and especially since I won't see them at Christmas when I would ordinarily and—.  And I don't know when I'll see them again.
But I don't know I have this feeling about—, or a mixed feeling of I'm constantly disappointed by what I want from my family and what I get.  And probably the reverse is true, that I—, they—, I'm dis, disappointing to them.  Or at least I know I used to be and (sniff) I don't do things the way they do somehow, and so we don't fit well together.  But I keep on wanting something that isn't going to happen.  And it just seem like this time I wanted to go up and have a feeling that special arrangements had been made since I was coming.  And the whole family was going to be gotten together or something and—.
And since it wasn't and I—, then the next best thing was for me to do it.  And yet that—, I was coming in from the outside and that seems sort of—, "phony" isn't the right word but—.  And, uh, I mean "aggressive," I don't know if that's quite right either, but somehow I felt as if I were being too managing and taking over too much, to try to do it all.  Except it seemed like that was the only way.  And then when my attempts to do it in, in a way that I felt wouldn't seem managing, and, and when they weren't working, when it was getting awkward, and then with MSCZ criticizing everything, I don't know.  I don't know whether that's why he upset me so much, but it just finally—, everything just seemed awful.  (pause)
ANALYST:  What's—, what, uh—, what did you recall then.  Uh, you- -.  About Friday?
    PATIENT:    Just—, just what I said of—, what I said at the very end of saying that about wanting your penis inside me and then this feeling I get every time I think that, that I said that.  Or that that is a feeling I have.
ANALYST:  You looked as though you had been crying when you left.
    PATIENT:    On Friday?
ANALYST:  Yeah.
PATIENT:   Yeah.  Well, that's when I st—, when after I remembered that I started crying last night, and it seemed that it—.  I mean it was—, somehow everything was all connected and I—.  Well, I still don't understand (haltingly, as if about to cry).  I think it's some kind of a feeling of well—.  It must be that thinking about Friday always—, ever since Friday anyway, always in that sense, gives me a feeling somehow I'm unacceptable and— (sniff), to myself I guess.  Because I had this feeling, how can I face myself.  That's what I'm feeling, and then last night—.  I think underneath it all is a feeling I'm unacceptable to my family in some way.  (crying)  And then I got really mad.  (sniff)  Or I was feeling angry, because I don't want to feel unacceptable, and if I am, out of things that can't be changed now, then I don't want to go on needing them in the way that I seem to need them.  And I don't want to—.  I don't know, I had this feeling that I—.  I mean eventually MSCZ tried to apologize to me or to sort of make up to me, and I just wanted him to leave me alone.  I didn't want anything to do with him either, because—.  And it wasn't that I was angry at him individually, but I just had this feeling that by his upsetting me so much, it showed my how much I was leaning on him, and I didn't—.  In that sense, I can't lean on him.  It can't help me and—.  I don't know.  (pause)
And it—, I don't know, I just had this very strong feeling last night that somehow this has to be the last time I go through whatever it was that—.  And yet—, and yet I—, I kept having the feeling I was missing—, I was off on the wrong track somehow, because my solution always is to, sort of intellectualize the situation and just decide, "Well, then I'm going to use this method of dealing with them from now on," and of course it doesn't work.  And I had that sense of it, too, that somehow I just knew I had to change, something had to change.  And yet my method of changing wasn't really going to accomplish anything.  (sniff)
Because—, well, then today I s,, uhm, I'm also getting Christmas presents and I want—.  I'd seen a shirt I thought MEIR would like, so I wanted to get his shirt size.  And my mother had said she'd get it for me and call me back.  But then I thought, well, I have to call FYC anyway to just do what I'd said about asking if she could join us—, she and MEIR could join us for Saturday night or could come over for brunch on Sunday and, uhm—.  Because again, so often we go up, we sort of sit around waiting for an invitation from them.  Sometimes it doesn't come, sometimes it does, but we always feel awkward.  And I just, I don't know, I didn't want to—.  At least I wanted to take the position of initiating things to an extent so that I wouldn't just feel I was sitting around and feeling neglected.  And, uhm, at least I'd know how things were, or how things stood.
And so—, well then it turned out FYC—.  I called FYC.  She was out, and so I called my mother, because she hadn't called me when I wanted to leave.  And then it turned out FYC was at my mother's, so I spoke to FYC, too.  And FYC, uhm, (sniff) and MEIR are going out to his parents on Friday, because it's his mother's birthday.  And then he stays for a hunt on Saturday.  And then apparently they're staying over night Saturday night, because "It seemed like the best thing to do," in FYC's words.  And she said, "And I don't know how soon I can get him going on Sunday, so I don't know if we can make it or not."  And in a—, I mean in the way my family does things I have to understand and accept that, but I felt very hurt by that.  Because here I hadn't seen her for just about a year, a little less than a year, and I don't know when I'll see them again.  Sometimes when they come to PKW they invite us to join them with their friends, but they don't make it an effort to see us in any individual way.  And so—, I mean it's very uncertain when we'll see them again.
And I don't know, I—, it's all part of this feeling somehow that we're—, we're a family and—.  I, I, I don't know, there's something I've always had about my family, and feeling it's a family and there should be some feeling of togetherness in it or something that— (sniff).  I mean sometimes I'm impressed by MSCZ's family and the way—, their attitude and—.  And yet they, they have whatever it is that my family doesn't have.  They would never think of being anywhere where there were family and not getting in touch with them and— (sniff).  I don't know, it seems like if, if it were MSCZ and I, we would make an effort to come in and—.  I mean it wouldn't even occur to us not to make the effort.  It wouldn't even occur to me to say, "Well, I'm not sure if we can make it or not."  And I don't know whether this need for them—, because in some ways we don't get along now—, so I don't know whether it's just because I still need something and, and—.  Something that I, I don't really want to need anymore, but I still do.  Or if it's real—, if it's something else.  I mean I guess that's part of what I didn't know last night, when I was upset about it was—.  Is this feeling about family something that I should be trying to get rid of or not?  (pause)
But then I, I remember what I was just saying after you asked your question about this feeling of being unacceptable and (sniff) maybe that's what the need is: to have proof that I'm not.  And instead I feel as if I'm constantly having proof that I am.  (silence)
Because another thing that (sniff) comes to my mind while FYC's on my mind that I'm—, I suppose I'm constantly trying to play down to myself or something, but it really upsets me anyway is the fact that even today when I spoke to her on the phone—.  Well, MSCZ asked me later today whe, when I spoke to him, "Did FYC say anything about you being pregnant", because she never has.  And I've always said to myself, "Well, I can't say anything about it," because I never wrote to her, I had asked my mother to tell her.  Because somehow I felt very awkward at the time when I would have written to her, writing a letter like that and, uhm, I assume my mother had and—.  And I also assumed we'd be seeing FYC and MEIR at some point over the summer or something, which we didn't.  But today when we spoke, she really didn't acknowledge it then, either.  It came up only because I brought it up.  And I don't know, I suppose that, too.  I mean here it is something that's very big in my life right now, and she's ignoring completely.  And it—, and again, anytime she was pregnant I never—, well, maybe for the wrong reasons I was very aware of her being pregnant, I don't know.  But it seemed big to me, too, that she was and, and it would have been very much on my mind if I'd been speaking to her.  And it was whenever I did communicate with her, however I communicated.  (sniff)  (pause)
But well, she's picked up something—, I was just thinking of—, I mean the telephone call, too, was kind of like, 'I don't have time now to talk to you.  I have  to run,' which I mean is probably true.  She was dropping off her daughter with my mother, and then going right out again for—, probably for some appointment or something.  But, uhm, I don't know, sort of typical of the attitude.  It's just like 'if we have time on Sunday we'll stop by and see you, but I'm not—, I don't know yet if we'll have time,' is really the way it is.  'I don't know if we'll have time, and, and that I don't know if MEIR and I will want to get up that early and get off that early' probably.  But, uhm, I don't—, there's something about it—.  And I was just of my mother and all those years when I used to resent her going off for committees and whatever other things she would leave the house for when we were home and, uhm, or at least when I was home.  I mean others were, too, but I was the one that I cared about.  And feeling again in, in this case, with my mother, that there was this attitude, 'when I have time for you, if I have time, I'm very happy to see you, but I'm busy now.  I don't have time.'  And it's very typical of our relationship with FYC lately, FYC and MEIR, but through FYC.  (pause)
 And, uh, I don—, the thing I keep thinking is (sniff) well, in effect that's what having—, making our own plans when we go up and stay with my parents is doing and I don't want to do it.  Somehow it seems to me an unsatisfactory, uhm, solution, which, eh, I mean by making our own plans, it seems that what we are doing then, or what I am doing is getting busy in turn and saying, "When I have time for you, I'd love to see you, but I'm busy.  I don't have time."  And it's—, it—, I mean it seems like I'm playing their game then and, and I don't want to do that, because whatever is underneath it all is still there.  And yet if I don't do that then I'm left feeling, with this feeling, and I've had it other times when we've gone up there, and I had it very much last night of waiting around and hoping to get a little crumb of attention here and there and— (sniff).  I just—, I don't—, I don't know, for some reason I need it.  And I don't think it's good that I do, but and yet, I don't see how you can just throw your family over either.  (pause)
Because, I don't know, I mean even I'm aware of this feeling to a certain extent with MSCZ's family who's not—, I mean who's sort of my adopted family, in, in the sense that I married into it, but— (sniff), and then it must be much more true with my family that there's something about knowing that you're part of it and there's nothing anybody can do to take it away from you.  And I don't know, there's something special in that, even though you may not agree about different things, and you may even not want to spend a lot of time with each other, but still the fact you're part of something that nobody can take away from you makes it special and that—.  It seems to me that there's something in that that I keep thinking makes a family unique and important and that is good to feel about a family, even though right now I feel as if my feeling is not a good one.
ANALYST:  Could it be that, uhm, the reason that you felt in the midst of all this feeling on, on, when you were making the call that, uhm, or after that, the reason that you thought of me was because of a very strong similarity of wanting something that, as you put it, you can't have.  And it happened to occur in the context of where I cancelled a couple of hours, as though what I were saying to you was, "Well, it's fine.  I'll see you when I have time for you."  So you might well have felt in precisely the same kind of a situation here.  (pause)
    PATIENT:    Well, I, I can see the parallel now, but and, and that may be it.  Last night I kept thinking it was something, well, I just didn't know. I mean it just—, I suppose I was wondering it had—, did it have anything to do with something to do with my father or something I didn't—, I couldn't see at all and— (crying).  Which has colored my whole feeling about my family.  I don't know, I just—.  (silence)
I don't know what make me cry even now, too, because in a way I don't feel nearly as involved emotionally as certainly I did last night.  But it seems like there's some kind of a feeling of having a need that isn't going to be fulfilled, and then just feeling completely helpless.  And not being able to sort of go on from there and accept that it's not going to be fulfilled and do something else about it (sniff).  (pause)
Although I, when, when you point out the parallels between Friday and then last night w, w,  or just my with my family, I keep thinking that certainly in, in the sense of remembering Friday, I had—, I have, eh, or at least had, I don't know if I still have now (sniff) a very strong feeling of—.  Well, one way to put it would be almost feeling nauseous or something, that how I could I have ever have felt that or said it or thought or anything.  That kind of a reaction and (sniff) on Friday I think I was thinking of it in terms of feeling scared, panicked and—.  Over the weekend it seemed almost like I was turning it on myself and sort of how could I face myself, but—.  It seem—,  I mean somehow tha, that seems to be a slightly different thing than—.  (2-minute silence)
I, I was—, when I was trying to draw that comparison I just ended up sort of thinking about well, first, literally last night when what I was saying was I want to see you, or today, too, uhm (sniff) and being sort of told, "Well, we aren't going to make any special effort to see you in return" or, you know.  It—, I mean translated it's sort of like, "Well, we aren't sure whether we want to see you or not.  We're not that eager.  Not the way you are," and— (sniff).  And I was thinking about other ways that—, how I, I don't know, I guess I keep assuming if I show an eagerness, then it'll be returned or something.
But I used to—, but eh, but it's false in a sense.  At least something that I'm doing is, because I was thinking that I, I used to sp—, well, I still have this attitude about gifts, but I think I had it more awhile ago—, that, you know, sort of like the more expensive gifts you gave—, not that it would come out sort of yelling it's price, but still it—.  The more I knew I'd spent on a present, the nicer it was, then the more I'd be s,, thinking I was saying something about, well, to the person, "you are special to me" or something like that, because of that.  And that somehow the present would do something that I couldn't do in any other way.  And of course it wouldn't.
And then I just began to think about this need I have, that I can't quite, I don't know, it seems like I describe it somewhat differently each time, or I feel of it as something different each time, but (sniff)—.  It was just—, I was just thinking now that it would seem at this point—.  Well, I even had this feeling last night.  I suddenly began to think, "How can I be about to become a mother and have a baby and be feeling this way, or reacting this way with my own family."  And, and this is part of what I was thinking just now, that somehow this need is something I should have outgrown or it's not appropriate for me at my age, and that, that was or does— , I mean it still is bothering me, too. (sniff)  Yet I don't know, that somehow maybe I'll always want to get my family together or see my family, but I can't put in the context of what my family is, how they are in true life, and what possibilities there are for our getting together (sniff).  (2-minute silence)
And I was just thinking about that parallel you drew again between Friday and then this incident with my family and—.  I don't know, I don't know, maybe this is getting me away from what really is going on, but there's something about it, too, that seems different just in—, well, I've already said this.  When I think about Friday, the feeling I get, eh, it seems like my concentration is on a reaction against myself for wanting it, but that somehow I don't—, I don't know, maybe I'm no—, I can't even admit this.  But it doesn't seem that I want—, I really would expect it to happen.  That, that in admitting this want I think if I do something right it will happen.  And with my family it is that, that I keep—.  I mean maybe I end up turning on myself, too, becau—, when things don't work out right and I think, "Well, what am I doing wrong?  What's the matter with me?"   But the concentration seems more on (sniff) if I want it enough and do things right somehow, it can happen.  And of course in my mind it's much more of an acceptable thing to admit wanting.  (silence)
 I was just recalling another solution that (clears throat) was very much in my mind last night and maybe there's a certain aspect of sour grapes about it, I don't know, but I was thinking that the best thing would be to just not go to my parents anymore unless we're specifically invited.  Because I mean like with PTN we're often just calling up, "Would it be alright if we came?  Will it be free?" and that kind of thing.  And I certainly have had all sorts of feelings about just using PTN (sniff) and, uhm—.  Even with PNOTS, I mean it was kind—,  it was sort of a half invitation that we have often gone up for—, at this particular time.  So I don't know who brought it up, but yet it wasn't a really specific hard and fast invitation on the part of my parents (sniff).  But then that—, I think I had that solution because then I was thinking if they really specifically invite us and we make no indication we'll be coming unless we get an invitation, then it would put them in a position of it would be a special visit.  And then I, I guess I was thinking then I'd get the kind of attention I was wanting (sniff).  (pause)
 But somehow it seems like—, I was just thinking again that (sniff) I know my mother is pleased.  I mean my father's as pleased as he can be ever about anybody coming, I'm sure.  And I know my mother's pleased, but somehow when we go up to PNOTS, it's bigger than just my parents.  It in, involves FYC and MEIR, not so much MLWZ and FHF, because I don't know, somehow they're in a position where we can say things like "Well, can't MLWZ and FHF be here, too," rather than waiting for MLWZ and FHF to invite us.  And I don't know whether it's because MLWZ is younger, or just what, what there is about that that makes me feel that somehow they aren't contributing to this in the same way but— (sniff).  It— I don't know, it just seems to be a combination of my parents, FYC and MEIR when we go up to PNOTS.  (silence)
ANALYST:  Well, our time's up.
