TRANSCRIPT OF AUDIO FILE:
______________________________________________________________________________
BEGIN TRANSCRIPT:
THERAPIST: Yeah, truly. I think I've been better about being on time lately, yeah?
CLIENT: A little better. I seem to be less stressed about getting here because I know you're probably running a few minutes late. I'm a little hung over. A friend of mine from college came into town and we started drinking and watching the soccer match at three. I blew off practice and except for the period of time when we walked from bar to bar, we were pretty much drinking non-stop. [00:00:58] I'm a little hung over. I didn't black out, though. He passed out on my bathroom floor, though. I'm not sure when he got up. Luckily I had some Gatorade in the frig. I don't feel so bad. A little lack of sleep, though. I have a wine and cheese tonight for E&amp;G.; I think I'm going to take it easy. I really don't even want to go but . . . I was trying to run the monthly expenses and figure out who paid what for taxes and seeing how much money Jess could take out of the account. I admittedly screwed up and included some things that she had already paid for. She just starts crying and gets all upset. I sent her a long text apologizing because I know what's going to happen now is this is going to be used against me. She doesn't know what's going on with the business. She doesn't get to see the books. She's like, "We need to see a financial mediator or have got to break up the firm." This, that and the other. [00:02:40] So I tried sending her a text. "I'm not intentionally trying to screw you. Screwing you is screwing the kids and I don't want to screw the kids. I love the kids. I don't want to screw the kids." No response. I just get an e-mail later saying do whatever I want to do, basically saying she has no way of knowing if what I'm saying is correct, so just do it &amp; she'll live with it. I'm like, "You're not going to respond to my text?" She never responded to that. I'm getting more and more tired of being in the same world with her. It's a pain in the ass. [00:03:44] Is it supposed to rain this morning? You're awful quiet. Did you have a rough night? 
THERAPIST: (chuckles) Is that a protection there? (laughs)
CLIENT: I don't know. I know I had a rough night. 
THERAPIST: (laughs) Sounds like you had some fun with your friend. 
CLIENT: I did and we went and saw kind of like a reggai/ska band that just happened to be the band that was there. They were pretty good. It's pretty interesting because I don't really know how to interact now with the opposite sex in a situation like this. This woman comes up and literally bites me on the shoulder. I was like, "I think that means she's interested," but apparently she wasn't. I can't remember why I figured it out, but she made some disparaging comment about me. I thought that was very weird that someone would come up to me—it was like a bite and she pulled my shirt away with her teeth. It seemed like some sort of suggestive . . . so . . . I don't know. I was pretty lit. I think she was, too. I've never really been a "bar scene" kind of . . . I go to a bar to see a band or drink. I don't really pick up women. My buddy—he can pick up women.
THERAPIST: Oh, really?
CLIENT: He doesn't mind getting shot down, so he'll ask every chick in the bar. I'm sweating. Maybe it's just the Guinness coming out of my pores. Are you hot?
THERAPIST: No. Do you want me to turn the temperature up? 
CLIENT: If you could. That would be great. [00:06:48] Screwing up the numbers and thinking I had extra money, I don't have extra money now. In fact, I don't think I have enough money to give her what she's owed. When I bought this bike it was $500, threw in a lock and some skewers—instead of having a quick-release, having bolts on the wheels. That came out to $550-something bucks. I'd already given him $50 for the downpayment to fix the other bike. 
THERAPIST: I see.
CLIENT: It's a nice bike. I really like it.
THERAPIST: What did you get?
CLIENT: I got a Schwin. This shop—it's one of the main bikes they carry, but I've never seen it anywhere else. Schwin is in the county between . . . 
THERAPIST: [inaudible]
CLIENT: Yeah. I have family who are all bikers. Mountain biking was like invented there and my second cousin is part of that whole scene. He goes mountain biking all over the world. He's been all over the world and my other cousins are really into it. Of course there, they've got these huge hills so they're obviously in great shape. You go up and down those hills. It's a nice bike. I'm not used to a bike that has brakes. The first time I hit the brakes I almost killed myself. [00:08:55] It's like (screech noise). (both laugh) But I don't know, it's kind of hard. It's like I owe my landlord, I owe Jess money, I owe everybody money, and here I am buying this expensive bike, which people have bikes and know bikes tell me it's not expensive at all for a bike. I could have gotten a single-speed for $350. So . . . It seems like it's well made and will last me a long time.
THERAPIST: Good. [00:09:54]
CLIENT: I keep forgetting to call the court. I got judgment on all the counts in the case but they scheduled a pretrial conference for a week from Tuesday. Why would I be doing a pretrial conference on that case? I've already won everything. I keep forgetting to call them and say, "Hey, what's going on?" I was supposed to be in court yesterday and I left the file up at the office. So I'm panicking trying to drive up to the office and have my clients hold off the court. It was continued anyways so . . .
THERAPIST: What does that mean?
CLIENT: Well in an eviction, all the tenant has to do is file for discovery and it automatically gets continued to two weeks.
THERAPIST: Does that mean it gets put off for two weeks? [00:11:11]
CLIENT: Yeah. And so she did it at the last second so it crossed in the mail, basically. She knows what she's doing. She's a gamer. She thinks she knows what she's doing. I make more money when people play games like that, I guess. They were friends of Jess's that were helping me out and I'm only charging them $75 bucks an hour. I should put a bill together and send them a bill because I need money. I just want to go back home and go to bed. The wine and cheese is up in [ ] (inaudible at 00: [00:12:29) so I need to be in the office later in the day. It doesn't make sense to try and go grab a couple hours and then go [ ] (inaudible at 00:12:48). (pause) It kind of left the [team] (inaudible at 00:14:03) short-handed yesterday. We have a couple of players that are injured and I guess some people just couldn't make it. We were playing a good, young team and it's not like I would have added a whole lot of help. I do have a large, outstanding receivables firm with title work I've done. It's like $2,000.
THERAPIST: Yeah. I think you mentioned it.
CLIENT: At least for the stuff that's older than six months I'm going to send a bill out for that. So it's been sixty days, not six months, and hopefully some of this stuff is closing this week and they'll mail me checks. I keep meaning to tell them that they use the suite number so there's like a day or two delay. [00:16:20] I haven't made any arrangements to see the kids this weekend. I need to do laundry. Tomorrow is supposed to be hot. My buddy goes up to the quarry in Rockport and is always inviting me. I never go so I thought if he's going Saturday I would go. I don't know if the kids are going to be around on Sunday or not. [00:17:17]
THERAPIST: He goes up to walk around or . . ?
CLIENT: Go swimming at the quarry. It's a nice place. It's owned by a trust and he just has friends up there that used to live in it. Somehow he's finagled the key, so it's like a gate. It would be better than sitting in my apartment doing nothing. (inaudible at 00:18:02) I don't think I'm going to buy a bottle of whisky this weekend, or at least not tonight. What number would you think is a lot of Guinness?
THERAPIST: (chuckles) Probably somewhat south of how much you drank last night. I don't know.
CLIENT: The tab for the bar was 15 Guinness. He had one more than I did. We also did shots of Patron.
THERAPIST: And what is that? [00:18:59]
CLIENT: Tequila. Good tequila. The other bar we probably at least had five or six apiece, so over the course of ten hours every hour one of them falls of, so we really kind of paced ourselves. I really didn't even start getting a buzz until the fourth or fifth Guinness. I never felt like completely . . . I just got to a point where I just could not drink any more, though. It was like, "Okay, I think I'm full." (snickers) Guinness is low alcohol so . . . [00:20:14] I don't know what sort of damage I've done to my liver. How do you know when you have liver problems, you know? I wonder if there is a way to have my liver checked? I guess with blood work they could check for it—toxins in your blood. I'm sure my liver wasn't very happy with me last night. You're extremely quiet today.
THERAPIST: I am?
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: Huh. [00:21:32]
CLIENT: Had a long week? It's Friday. Just want to phone it in?
THERAPIST: It's that I get preoccupied by this stuff with Blue Cross which, to me is just . . . 
CLIENT: It sucks.
THERAPIST: Yeah.
CLIENT: So you're sitting here thinking about how you're going to call Blue Cross again and all you're hearing is, "Wah wah. Wah wah. Wah wah. Guinness. Wah wah. Wah wah. Wah wah." [00:22:00]
THERAPIST: No. I guess it's not easy for me to figure out what to do with what you're telling me. I think you're often telling me about two sorts of problems.
CLIENT: Money and drinking?
THERAPIST: No. 
CLIENT: Anger and sadness?
THERAPIST: Closer. I guess what I have in mind is the problems where you're basically sort of hungry in one way or another or you're reacting to that, which is like eating more than you want or drinking more than you want. The other one is being pissed off about things that are getting in your way, often in the form of Jess, but also with other things to do with work. I think both of those make you really anxious because they really impair your control, like your self-control—like how you act and where you think clearly and stay focused on things. [00:23:54]
CLIENT: Yeah, I got very upset and during the E&G; meeting my head was very hazy. I got upset because of Jess. I didn't get upset because she was crying, you know? I'm really getting tired of her crying over the money problems, you know? Just stop fucking crying, you know? Leaving the file in the office. Doing these little fuck ups here and there. 
THERAPIST: So the crying, I imagine, part of the reason you're upset with her crying is because it's kind of a luxury to you? In other words, you don't get to cry over the money. You just have to deal with it. Whatever else is going on, it's on your shoulders mostly and you've got to buck up, make the arrangements, suck up what you have to suck up, and deal with it. So I imagine you got resentful of her being able to just fall apart, get upset about it and not have to take responsibility for it, which is kind of like her, in a way, getting support from you that you're not getting from her. [00:25:39]
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: Something I think you're kind of hungry for is support—something good from somebody else that helps take some of the weight off your shoulders. (long pause) [00:28:35] What is it? What's on your mind?
CLIENT: I don't know. Thinking about money. Where it all went. It does seem like I'm going to get a few more closings. I don't know when they're going to close. I know I'm going to get the orders, but rates have dropped. (pause) [00:30:18] I think I've probably said this before, but I always thought there was like a point to life, like you could just come to some sort of level where you're like, "Yay. I'm here. I made it," you know? And all I've realized is that it's not like that. You just keep going and going and going and going until you don't go anymore, you know? And it's either good or bad. For me, for a long time it's been bad, to the point where I don't even feel there is no hope of reaching whatever it is that I should be striving for. It's like I just . . . I don't know what's going to change my life. I don't know. I'm either unwilling or incapable of doing the things I need to do that would either make me successful or happy, and I don't know why. In a way, it's very exhausting. [00:32:47]
THERAPIST: Sure. (pause) [00:33:52]
CLIENT: I get so many e-mails that are just crap. Renew your membership. I don't want to renew my fucking membership. (pause) [00:35:14] You know this mistake I made with the money was in the thousand-dollar range of mistakes, several thousand, so I was thinking that I had the money. I was thinking like, "Oh, my God, I have money for once." Kind of getting paid for an extra month. Catch up with rent or what am I going to do with all this money? Then realize I don't have any of it. I've got bills to pay. [00:36:01]
THERAPIST: It's like even when you don't think you're short, you're short when you think you're ahead. 
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: It's just because you made a mistake. [00:36:30]
CLIENT: Yeah. The birds are singing. The rain must be done. Let the heat begin. Got big plans for the weekend? You're not sure?
THERAPIST: So I'm being a little contrary here for a minute. So what's so bad? Yeah, you're really short a bunch of money. You're behind with probably everybody, but you're also bringing in some money and it looks like that's at least going to continue for the next couple of months. My guess is that it's enough money to kind of keep paying for things, but not really catch up much. [00:38:26]
CLIENT: What's not so bad about that?
THERAPIST: And work is stressful but lately, at least from what I've heard, it seems like it's mostly manageably stressful. I mean clients are a pain in the ass. You've worked to get referrals which often don't come through or something falls apart, and that sucks. The clients and the other sorts of people you have to deal with, lenders and so forth, are pains in the ass; but at least lately it sounds like mostly manageably pains in the ass. I mean it's not leading to deals not happening from what I understand or to you not being able to function. Those things are stressful but it seems to be manageably so. [00:39:31] Jess's a pain in the ass and makes your life difficult, but you don't deal with her that often—three or four times a week—as compared to living with her. You have time to go out. You have time to ride your bike; time for some practice. [00:40:03] You're also really lonely, especially in terms of dating and all that. You also get out, especially in the last few months. Yeah, you spend a lot of time alone in your apartment feeling lonely and miserable, but you've also gone out at least once or twice a week. It's not a lot but it's nothing either. You have people asking you to do things that you can spend time with. I know I'm sort of being devil's advocate here; but I guess the thing that I'm thinking about or trying to sort out, framing things the way that I am, is I think we tend to take it for granted how completely awful and miserable everything is based on the circumstances and to some extent the depression and the anxiety. I guess I'm trying to get a clear picture at this point, which is different from six months ago, what are the circumstances and what is the depression/anxiety? And clearly now that you're feeling, I think, a little more functional than you were six months ago. [00:42:05] Are there some new ways that we can sort of tackle the emotional part of this in a way that would make things better? We're out of time for now, so I will leave you with that.
CLIENT: I don't know what to do with this but so what? Stay cool. 
THERAPIST: You too. 
END TRANSCRIPT
