TRANSCRIPT OF AUDIO FILE:
______________________________________________________________________________
BEGIN TRANSCRIPT:
THERAPIST: How about you?
CLIENT: It wasn't very exciting.
THERAPIST: Well that's good, I guess, right? Were you hoping for more excitement?
CLIENT: [inaudible [00:00:08] fun. Something. So I don't know.
THERAPIST: Just a day off from classes.
CLIENT: Yep.
THERAPIST: So how are you? House okay? Not exciting?
CLIENT: Um, very tired, for no reason. I forget if I was really tired last week. Did we meet last week?
THERAPIST: We did meet last week. And I guess we didn't talk about tiredness. But you were I think pretty frustrated with—
CLIENT: Well I think I was complaining about not having energy. Anyway, that has continued, despite my trying to do things. I'm just very tired. I'm not really sure why. I have to ask Linda if it's maybe the medication, or -
THERAPIST: I guess so last week when we were talking about it, I guess I was thinking about it in terms of lethargy, like not feeling the physical ability to get up, exercise, go. And when I think of tired, I think more of like falling asleep. So I don't know if those are different for you, kind of the feeling physically capable of keeping up, and feeling like eyes shutting, drowsy, can't focus. Same, different? [00:01:27]
CLIENT: No, I almost feel like it's getting worse. Like last week I think I had some amount of energy that just got used up really fast, and now I just feel like I have no desire to do anything. I guess it's very lethargic. So yesterday I was falling asleep on the couch, and dragging myself out of bed, and all that.
THERAPIST: For you, it's kind of both at the same time, the physical can't get up and go and feeling like you want to go to sleep.
CLIENT: Yeah. Yeah, so I don't know what's going on, why that's happening. [00:02:02]
THERAPIST: How is your sleep at night?
CLIENT: Good, it's fine.
THERAPIST: Okay, so it's not explained by that. Which sometimes it is.
CLIENT: No. I mean, this past weekend I attempted to go to a dinner party and have some fun, and was home later than usual and woke up at like 6 a.m. And I felt terrible all day. I didn't do anything else the rest of the weekend, because I was really bummed out. But I mean it's Tuesday now, so I got just—two hours of missed sleep on Saturday.
THERAPIST: Right, no. Or it shouldn't be. Like if that's having this kind of effect on you. It's too much.
CLIENT: Really I was pretty bummed out on Friday, because I had my most intense day at school, had a long time just going nonstop all day till like 7:00. Then I went to this dinner party and was hoping to just chill out. It was all my department friends. It was supposed to be like a ladies' dinner party. So it was really fun. But -
THERAPIST: But you couldn't enjoy it.
CLIENT: It was too much I guess, yeah.
THERAPIST: Did you enjoy it in the moment, or could you not even enjoy it while you were there? [00:03:02]
CLIENT: Well it's partially my fault. I was just dying for like a glass of wine, because I don't drink anything ever anymore. And I think that probably was part of why I felt terrible, but -
THERAPIST: But you want to be able to have a glass of wine.
CLIENT: Seems unfair, yeah. (laughs) I was telling my lab mate about it this morning, and she didn't see me the rest of the weekend, and we were supposed to do Halloween things or whatever. And I mean people seem like so confused when I tell them.
THERAPIST: Well, because it's a very atypical response. I don't think it's normal.
CLIENT: You know of course I wake up at 6 a.m. on Saturday, and I'm like "Gosh, this is just ridiculous." Even if I hadn't drank any wine. (laughs)
THERAPIST: Well I wonder if people also feel confused because it also doesn't seem—it doesn't seem to fit with how you present. You don't seem tired and lethargic. You seem energetic. But you don't feel that way. [00:04:06]
CLIENT: I mean, I don't seem it but I do feel lethargic. Yeah, yeah. I don't know.
THERAPIST: Right, I mean like sitting here talking to you, you don't seem lethargic.
CLIENT: Yah.
THERAPIST: Some of the things that sometimes a clinician will look for when people talk about not being able to get out of bed is sometimes that's also kind of apparent in body language once you get out of bed. People that are slumped forward, not making eye contact, sort of a dearth of any kind of physical activity. But you make eye contact, you shake your leg, you laugh appropriately when you make a joke. You're not missing those cues of what sometimes is kind of not there when people say they feel the way you do. And I'm not doubting at all that you feel it, but I think you do a really good job of covering it up. [00:05:02]
And I think maybe, so you explain it to your lab mates how you feel, and it doesn't jive with what they feel when they see you. Because you're not a lump.
CLIENT: Yeah. (laughs) I feel like it. I mean, I'm trying to be grateful because it's a million times better than not being able to relax, and being exhausted, not sleeping and whatnot. So I'm trying to be happy about it.
THERAPIST: But it's not what you want to be.
CLIENT: You know, and I'm hoping that I wasn't wrong when a few weeks ago I thought I was just going to end up feeling normal. As opposed to like some other new normal. But maybe I'm wrong about that, I don't know.
THERAPIST: I think you're just not there yet.
CLIENT: Just not there yet. I wish someone could tell me like "Oh, just chill out for a year, six months, whatever, and then expect to feel normal."
THERAPIST: It would be nice if we had that kind of accuracy or knowledge.
CLIENT: So but I mean as long as I can concentrate, it's cool, which I can.
THERAPIST: You can. [00:06:00]
CLIENT: So I'm happy I guess.
THERAPIST: And in those things you can see that there's progress from where you were.
CLIENT: Yeah, yeah.
THERAPIST: And I know it's not a stopping point. It's not where you want to be.
CLIENT: Josh is confused. Because I mean he—So they decided last week that he's better now, although he's not sure either. I don't remember if I told you, they couldn't decide if he was okay when he left the hospital and they couldn't decide if he wasn't after staring at his EKG for awhile.
THERAPIST: Last I heard, he was in atrial fibrillation and on a ton of meds.
CLIENT: Yeah, yeah. But it took them a while, the hospital, to decide whether his rhythm looked actually abnormal or not. And so things seemed to settle down. He started to feel better. And then he went back to the doctor, and the doctor again stared at his EKG for like half an hour, counting little parts of the wave, whatever, and decided he's most likely in normal rhythm and took him off of the drugs, and now he's feeling better, mostly.
THERAPIST: So I don't think I have heard that update. That's good news, right? [00:07:02]
CLIENT: Yeah, that happened last week.
THERAPIST: Okay.
CLIENT: Yeah. It's confusing, I guess. (laughs)
THERAPIST: It's hard to know what to believe.
CLIENT: Yeah, and I mean the fact this whole thing happened is still not good. But anyway, he's feeling better.
THERAPIST: Physically, mentally? When you say better what do you mean?
CLIENT: Physically and mentally. I think. But I'm surprised like—so lately he's wanted to try to go to the gym or for a bike ride. There's no desire, which is so strange for me.
THERAPIST: You want to join him. You want to want to join him.
CLIENT: (laughs) The other day he was telling me "If I can do it, you can do it." Which again is probably not the best thing to say. It makes me feel really bad.
THERAPIST: Can you just—how does that make you feel when he says things like that? [00:08:00]
CLIENT: I don't know, I mean—I can't imagine what it's like for him, if he can get his heart rate up to like 90s again. For me it would be up at like twice that.
THERAPIST: Right. 90 is resting for a lot of people, right?
CLIENT: Yeah, yeah. And that's at high as he can get it, and he wants to go extra just because he's just so like antsy. Which is how I would normally feel, like antsy. Needing to do something physical. So he just does it. I mean, the fact that he's on these drugs doesn't take that feeling away for him. So he tries. So I don't know how it makes me feel exactly. Confused. It makes me feel confused.
THERAPIST: Because you wonder...?
CLIENT: I don't know—what's going on. I just wonder what's going on.
THERAPIST: You start to wonder what's wrong with you. Is that what you hear in your head?
CLIENT: Yeah, yeah. I mean lately I find it even hard to get worked up though, about things. I'm just very tired. [00:09:06]
THERAPIST: When was the last time you had a physical?
CLIENT: Just a normal physical? Probably in July.
THERAPIST: And there was no—no explanation with thyroid or iron or any of that stuff for the tiredness.
CLIENT: No. I wish I—I'm starting to guess I probably should have kept a record of my own blood tests. I wish I had. Because you know, they tell you it's within a normal range, but...
THERAPIST: Well you can probably go back and look online. 
CLIENT: From school, yeah, yeah. But I've been having problems since I got to school. [inaudible [00:09:48] blood tests. Because I mean there was a while a couple years ago where I thought I might be anemic, because I was going with Josh to Memphis, which is like at 6,000 feet. So it's not really that high, but it's high. And I was having like a lot of trouble. And he—I was vegetarian at the time. He was like "Oh my gosh, you're probably anemic," and I went and got a bunch of blood tests, and I wasn't. I have a ton of blood tests from then. [00:10:15]
THERAPIST: So it's not something you tend toward. It would be an easy explanation, but it's not something that's ever been a problem.
CLIENT: No. And actually I was fascinated because at the time I was biking a lot and actually interested by all the different [inaudible [00:10:31]. So I looked them all up, and they were all fine and normal.
THERAPIST: So that's not our easy answer.
CLIENT: No. No, I mean I really think maybe the pill is having more effects on me. Combined with the Zoloft. I don't know. People were making Zoloft jokes on—apparently there's some really funny Zoloft commercial that they made into some sort of funny commercial about finals. I don't remember. This is far into my glass of wine. [00:11:10]
So I don't know, they were making jokes about this Zoloft commercial with some like egg or something that dances around. I don't know. I never watch commercials because I don't have a real TV, but (pause) sometimes I forgot even that I take it. I don't know.
THERAPIST: When you heard people joking about it, what kind of response do you have?
CLIENT: Oh, super upsetting. (laughs)
THERAPIST: You say as you smile.
CLIENT: Well, I was just thinking about how—I don't know if you ever see The Office?
THERAPIST: I have heard of it and I have seen some, but I am not a devoted fan.
CLIENT: Well this last Thursday, there was an episode where Dwight, who's sort of the office crazy person, finds a pill that turns out to be some anxiety pill. And the whole show is about how he's trying to catch the other crazy person in the office who takes this anxiety pill, and ends up finding out it's like this woman in the office that he really likes or something. I don't know. And then the next night, people were joking about taking anxiety pills. It was just a strange coincidence. [00:12:19]
THERAPIST: So two nights in a row. You feel made fun of by the show, and then you feel made fun of by your friends.
CLIENT: Well the show was actually like "Oh, this crazy guy probably should be on an anxiety drug too." I mean it actually wasn't making fun of it exactly.
THERAPIST: What was it like for you to see it? What was your gut response?
CLIENT: I mean, I thought it was kind of cool actually that it was on the show.
THERAPIST: Getting some recognition.
CLIENT: I don't know. I still wish it was something that I could tell people and talk about.
THERAPIST: What do you think people would have responded with if you had said something to your friends?
CLIENT: I was slightly tempted to. To say like—[00:13:01]
THERAPIST: Tell me what you imagine.
CLIENT: I don't know. I mean, probably I would've gotten some sort of uncomfortable silence, I would imagine.
THERAPIST: What would you want? As you're imagining saying something, what were you toying with in your head?
CLIENT: I don't know. I don't know what I would want, which is why I didn't say anything. (pause) I mean at the time, I was starting to feel a little woozy from the wine. I was like "Gosh, this is probably because of the Zoloft. I really wish I wasn't on it and could just make fun of it and not have to think about it affecting me."
THERAPIST: Would be easier.
CLIENT: Yeah. (pause) I don't know. I mean lately I feel sort of I guess drugged lately. Maybe just because I think about it too much. Or tired. I mean, I just don't feel normal. [00:14:00]
THERAPIST: If you were taking it and you felt good, it would probably have a different set of consequences for you. But you're taking it, people are making these comments that don't feel supportive, and you don't feel great. And you wonder, is it side effect that's making you tired? Is it not working well enough and that's why you feel so tired? Is it something else? But these questions sort of surround it for you.
CLIENT: Oh, and I left the party with this other girl early, who was leaving early, and for some reason started talking about how it's our bedtime. Have to go home, go to sleep. And I asked her if she was going to the Halloween stuff that I didn't end up going to the rest of the weekend. She said no, she doesn't like to go out late or do all this sort of thing. And I was like "Oh my gosh, please talk to me about all this!" But of course we didn't. She just went home, but (pause) I don't know. I got sort of excited that maybe -
THERAPIST: Somebody could understand. [00:15:00]
CLIENT: Yeah, yeah. But she knows—I was like "oh well, I really want to try to go." And she's like "You know, I just tell people I'm not going to go, or I just try to be honest." And then I was almost sort of jealous because maybe I should just sort of accept this.
THERAPIST: But you want to go, right?
CLIENT: I know, but you know. You know. Josh wants to go race bikes again. But he's not going to. So maybe I should just accept sort of (pause) I don't know. How I feel. But it's difficult.
THERAPIST: And we don't know that this is going to be how you feel forever.
CLIENT: Yeah. [phone beeps] Oh, sorry. Probably for my appointment.
THERAPIST: You're here.
CLIENT: I never have it on, because it makes me jump. Although it didn't just make me jump right now. Shows how tired I am. (pause) [00:16:00]
So I don't know. I guess I'll just keep waiting. See what happens.
THERAPIST: What have your thoughts been like?
CLIENT: Well like I said, I've been having just a hard time getting worked up about things.
THERAPIST: Which means, instead of getting worked up, what's the change?
CLIENT: What is the change? I don't know exactly. (pause)
THERAPIST: Because I wonder what's going on in your head and how that impacts how you feel.
CLIENT: (pause) I'm trying to think what's going on in my head, and I don't think I have anything that's been going around and round lately. (pause) I've had crazy dreams lately. Lots of things going on in my dreams.
THERAPIST: Huh. Different than usual? [00:17:01]
CLIENT: Every night having crazy dreams, which are some sort of bizarre combination of all the things that happened to me. Which of course I can't remember any of them right now, but...
THERAPIST: That can be a side effect of the meds.
CLIENT: Oh it can?
THERAPIST: Intense dreaming. Which also—so even though you don't notice that you're waking up, in order to remember your dreams you are coming out of sleep. So there's lots of levels of sleep, different depths. And we usually remember dreams when we've come out of that deep stage of sleep. Even if you don't recognize it. So I'm wondering if that's impacting—since you're having these really vivid dreams, and even though you can't recall the details now, you obviously remember having them. I'm wondering if that's impacting some of the tiredness.
CLIENT: Yes, it's been every night for awhile. That would be a bummer. Here I am thinking I'm sleeping all the time, and if I'm not really sleeping very well. [00:18:02]
THERAPIST: Well, you're sleeping a little bit differently. I mean, there's a difference between coming up—you know, being alert. Knowing that you're awake. Getting up, going to the bathroom, getting back to bed, not being able to fall—that's different than being able to recall a dream. So it's not—you haven't taken away improvement. But it's different than sleeping solidly and occasionally remembering a dream here or there, which is more typical.
CLIENT: (pause) I don't know. I mean, that seems weird that it would be a side effect of anxiety drugs to have a disturbed sleep with dreams.
THERAPIST: It's just one of the things that sometimes people notice, is that that they have more increased dream activity or more vivid dreams. Doesn't mean that you have to stop taking it at all. I'm just trying to understand what's going on. [00:19:04]
CLIENT: Yeah. It's almost like Melatonin. Have you ever tried Melatonin?
THERAPIST: I haven't personally.
CLIENT: It always would give me very sour dreams.
THERAPIST: So I mean clearly—so that happens to some people when they try it. Doesn't happen to everybody. Sleep is something that's very affected for you. (pause) What goes on in your—do you remember any snippets of...?
CLIENT: Oh, gosh. Oh, I wish I could. I should write them down. Just variations on like what's happened in the day.
THERAPIST: And they feel very real?
CLIENT: Yeah, definitely.
THERAPIST: What do you feel when you wake up? What's your response to that?
CLIENT: Well like this morning I was kind of trying to realize if I was even awake or not for awhile.
THERAPIST: Yeah, kind of disoriented.
CLIENT: I used to wake up and just have energy, so much energy. And so now I have this—I'm groggy and confused in the morning. Especially ever since it started getting dark too, because I wake up and it's still dark. [00:20:11]
THERAPIST: Yeah, it takes awhile to adjust to that. How long does that grogginess last, or do you feel like it continues all day?
CLIENT: Lately it feels like it continues all day. (pause) So I don't know.
THERAPIST: That's really frustrating.
CLIENT: It is really frustrating. And it kind of makes me think of Paris, when Josh and I went to Paris and we went to bed at 2:00 every night, and I always would drag myself around all the time. And in fact, he's applying for grants and he's trying to convince me to go back to Paris in January. And I told him I won't go. (laughs)
THERAPIST: Because you associate with that?
CLIENT: Well, also I can't do another month and another $3,000 in Paris right now. (pause) He's so funny. He told me that he needs me there to give him pep talks to go talk to people. He's supposed to be a sociologist. Sometimes I worry about his career choice, but (pause) I don't know. [00:21:15]
You know what I've been thinking about lately? This reminds me. So you're supposed to be with someone who's your best friend, right?
THERAPIST: According to...
CLIENT: According to like people's ideas of like a good relationship, right?
THERAPIST: Some people's ideas.
CLIENT: Some people's ideas. Which I always thought made sense to me, right? But it's really tough when your lives—I mean our lives—sometimes our lives are just so connected, like too connected.
THERAPIST: You worry that your life and Josh's is too connected?
CLIENT: Yeah. I mean I try to do things without him. But he doesn't do much without me. I mean, besides go to school.
THERAPIST: What does that feel like for you? So I mean like you feel this pressure to go to Paris, because he wants you there. He feels that he needs you there. [00:22:02]
CLIENT: Yeah. I don't know, I mean sometimes it makes me worry about our relationship. (pause) And then I wonder if I should really be so affected—so affected, by him and his moods and his health. It seems reasonable to me, though, that I would be. Even if our lives weren't totally connected, but...
THERAPIST: So you think of him as your best friend. And you wonder whether it's really a good idea to have your partner be your best friend, even though there's this idea out there that that's common. (pause) What have other relationships been like for you? I've never known you with anyone other than Josh.
CLIENT: Yeah. I mean, similar. Josh is—I've never made it so far in a relationship before. I've never lived with anyone else or been so close to anyone else. But I mean, similar.
THERAPIST: What broke up your other relationships? [00:23:03]
CLIENT: Most of them I knew weren't going to last from the start.
THERAPIST: Based on?
CLIENT: Based on where I was and where they were. Sometimes who they were. (pause) I don't know, I mean six months was like the time limit for other relationships. But they were mostly based off like mutual activities that we liked to do. Mostly activities. Sometimes school also. But yeah, I met guys doing yoga, surfing (laughs) what else? Running. (pause) So yeah, stuff like that.
THERAPIST: So how did you know at six months? What happened at six months that that was the end?
CLIENT: I mean (pause) one of the guys who I liked almost as much as Josh, you know, I moved. Another one just couldn't seem to get his life together. Kind of like my friend Charlotte—[00:24:12]
THERAPIST: Who ended that?
CLIENT: I did. I think I told you about my friend Charlotte who's really depressed and it's really frustrating, because she talks about all these plans that she wants, and then never actually seems to be able to accomplish anything, which drives me crazy. He was kind of like that. Couldn't seem to—had all these hopes and dreams, and I got really wrapped up and really wanted to support him. He just was depressing. He just couldn't get it together. So (pause)...
THERAPIST: So what's made your relationship with Josh different? How'd you guys get past that?
CLIENT: Past six months? (laughs)
THERAPIST: Well, past six months, but also past the shared activities thing, right? Because when you got together you had that. Similar to the other relationships that brought you together, you guys had the biking thing together. And now you don't. But I didn't end the relationship. So I'm wondering what made that different? [00:25:09]
CLIENT: I mean he's a lot more (pause) compatible with me than anybody else. You know. We talk for hours, and we (pause) are just better for each other in most ways. (pause) I don't know. I mean, it's a problem, for sure. If I go to the gym and he doesn't go, he'll be upset. Or if I go out with my friends and leave him at home, he's like all sad by the time I get home. Which I don't know, I mean it seems a little bit unhealthy to me.
THERAPIST: How does that impact you? When he's sad when you get home, what's that like for you? [00:26:00]
CLIENT: Well, I mean he wouldn't have come with me anyway, because he—I don't know, didn't want to go to a—I mean, obviously wasn't even invited to a ladies' party.
THERAPIST: Right. A ladies' dinner wouldn't have been the best venue for him.
CLIENT: I don't know, I worry about him sometimes when he doesn't have friends. Doesn't seem to want them or need them.
THERAPIST: And he did before? He had his biking crew, right? So this is different?
CLIENT: Yeah. Well, and he had his one best friend who he still talks to. Doesn't talk to him about everything.
THERAPIST: So is it that you're worried about him, or does it worry you about the relationship?
CLIENT: I don't know exactly what I'm trying to say here. I guess I just wish I wasn't so affected by him. (pause)
THERAPIST: It seems like you want maybe more independence? More independence of your own reactions? [00:27:01]
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: Yeah, that face is like "Nah, not really." I know you don't know exactly what you're trying to say, but when it doesn't jive, it doesn't jive.
CLIENT: I know. I mean, I'm still not completely over all of the feelings I had trying to run away.
THERAPIST: I think that's probably what you need to talk about.
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: If any of those feelings weigh you down.
CLIENT: Yeah, I mean I don't really feel them anymore. When we were in the hospital a couple weeks ago I felt trapped for a minute. It didn't end up staying.
THERAPIST: But they pop up.
CLIENT: Yeah. Sometimes.
THERAPIST: So when you say you don't feel like you're completely over them, but they're not as present as they were before—what are they? What is the piece that you're not over? What does that mean?
CLIENT: Yeah, I still don't understand what happened. Like why I felt like that. If that was just me not wanting to—just wanting to run away, like Josh accused me of, or what. [00:28:06]
THERAPIST: What would be the "or what"?
CLIENT: Or, you know, if I do just need—if I really did just need to be on my own. If I could have figured things out better on my own, gotten back to myself I guess. And I still feel like myself. I think about this stuff.
THERAPIST: Yeah. So do you wonder if he's holding you back from feeling like yourself, or the relationship gets in the way of you feeling like yourself?
CLIENT: I don't know. I mean I guess at the time I felt like I had more faith in myself getting my act together on my own than with him.
THERAPIST: Yet you stayed with him.
CLIENT: Right, because he told me that he was willing to help however, and running away from our relationship to fix things was not necessarily the right path. I don't know. I do find it a lot easier to start over than to keep working on something, for sure. That's a feeling I always have when there's something that's really tough. [00:29:19]
It always seems like I've done that over and over again, not because of running away necessarily; just because going to college and moving and just making things happen on my own.
THERAPIST: What do you like about fresh starts? Starting over?
CLIENT: I don't know exactly. (pause) There's nothing uncomfortable, there's nothing bad to work through.
THERAPIST: What do you imagine a fresh start would be like now?
CLIENT: When I actually imagine it, it seems terrible. I mean I'm sure it'd be very lonely, and sounds exhausting right now. So (pause) I don't think I really want to. [00:30:13]
(pause) I don't know. I wish that I had some control over like anything right now. I just feel like I have no control. Like things just keep happening to me and I don't seem to be able to keep things the way I want them to be or figure out how to get back to them.
THERAPIST: Yeah, so you feel very trapped and very powerless.
CLIENT: Yeah, yeah. And I don't even feel like what I thought was the crazy anxiety anymore, necessarily. Maybe like little bits and pieces, but not really.
THERAPIST: And in some ways it seems like the absence of that freaks you out a little bit. Because instead—like you said, I can't even seem to get worked up about anything anymore. And it's almost like you miss the familiar—[00:31:01]
CLIENT: Yeah, which is good, but...
THERAPIST: Right. But it's different. And it's unfamiliar. And a little bit uncomfortable.
CLIENT: It is. It's super uncomfortable. And also I guess I associate that with energy, too. Getting worked up about stuff is having energy.
THERAPIST: Yeah. I wonder if there's way to have energy without that. Because right now you don't have either.
CLIENT: I don't know. Right, I would like to have energy. I just don't know I guess where it'll come from. And I can't imagine what that would be like.
THERAPIST: Yeah. I wonder if you kind of used anxiety as your sort of energy and motivation before.
CLIENT: Maybe. But then without it, do I just have no energy at all, ever?
THERAPIST: Yeah, you don't want that. No. It doesn't have to be. Certainly there are people who aren't as anxious as you were that don't feel as rundown as you do. (pause) I think what you'd like to be able to feel is excited without the anxiety piece.
CLIENT: Kind of like—I mean my mom has lots of energy, but not anxious energy all the time. Like I still—when she tells me all the things she do, I'm still amazed how she does them all. But I would imagine that she just uses it very—in small amounts, without using it up all at once, and I don't know. I'd like to feel like her, I guess. She never seems crazy energetic, yet—[00:32:29]
THERAPIST: But she does a lot.
CLIENT: Yeah. (laughs)
THERAPIST: And you feel like she's always been that way?
CLIENT: Mmhm. Yep.
THERAPIST: How would you have compared yourself, like in high school, to your mom?
CLIENT: To my mom? I don't know, I mean I'm like my dad. I just am. I mean, we were out the other night. I finally told my parents about the puppy. I went over Saturday and told them about the puppy. Scared the crap out of them, because I told them I had some news. [00:33:09]
THERAPIST: Was that on purpose? You wanted them to be relieved it was a puppy and not a child?
CLIENT: I don't know exactly why I did it. I kind of waited till it got quiet around the table. Yeah, it was a bad choice I guess. (laughs)
THERAPIST: There's a drama streak in you, huh?
CLIENT: Tiny. Tiny little bit of drama. (laughs) So we were out, running around, and it was like 10:00 and my dad was like "When are we going to get home? It's late." So I mean (pause) I don't know.
THERAPIST: What was that about for your dad? Is he tired the way that you are?
CLIENT: Yeah, I think so. I think so. I've seen him be like that a few times lately.
THERAPIST: Interesting. [00:34:00]
CLIENT: Yeah, I don't know.
THERAPIST: How did you feel telling them about the puppy?
CLIENT: I mean it was good because I'd gotten positive happy reactions from everyone else. I mean, it's a puppy. And the puppy had not been—I mean, it's going to be fine. He's not going to be a huge amount of work. And our life is perfectly set up for a puppy. So we're fine. So I was very comfortable with it.
So I don't know. My mom reacted well. My dad didn't really react so well. He might have also said that we have to go because he was kind of uncomfortable with the whole situation. Including the puppy. He doesn't really know what to do with dogs in general.
THERAPIST: What else was he uncomfortable with? What was the whole situation?
CLIENT: I don't know, I mean he came over and started asking Josh's mom when she was going to move out, and didn't seem to want to see the puppy, and just seemed sort of—[00:35:03]
THERAPIST: He was just really uncomfortable in your house.
CLIENT: Yeah, I think so. Yeah. (pause) I don't know.
THERAPIST: In what ways do you feel like you're responding like your dad? So definitely the feeling like "this is the end of the night, let's go."
CLIENT: I mean, in all ways. Like he thinks way too much about his health all the time, and (pause) he's clearly anxious, and (pause) I don't know. I'm sure he builds things up to be worse than they are in his head. And he's just super serious about everything.
THERAPIST: And you feel the same way about you?
CLIENT: Yeah, definitely. For sure.
THERAPIST: What are you building up too much in your head right now?
CLIENT: I mean, not right now I guess. But like everything with Josh and Josh's health. I think I told you I got really upset at my dad once when he thought he was having a heart attack and he just biked too hard and he was getting himself all worked up about having heart troubles. And you know I kept telling myself at least I was getting worked up over actual heart troubles. (laughs) [00:36:22]
THERAPIST: Yeah. That seems like a big difference, right?
CLIENT: But still, I can imagine if my dad had something to get worked up over. I mean, he used to get so worked up over my grandparents and their problems and their health.
THERAPIST: How would you mom respond differently? Or how does she respond differently?
CLIENT: I don't know. First of all she doesn't want to talk about stuff like my dad does. A tall.
THERAPIST: So you don't know exactly what she's thinking.
CLIENT: Yeah. I mean did I tell you that my mom's friend—one of my best friend's mother is also my mom's best friend, and they talk. And the other mom tells my mom pretty much everything. And I heard from my best friend, from her mom, that she always thought my mom had no problems, because she just wouldn't really talk about it. And then my mom finally told her about I think her dad dying or her mom dying or both or something. Sort of, a little bit. [00:37:22]
I mean, my mom getting emotional about her parents dying was like telling some really nice story and getting teared up about it. My mom is like...
THERAPIST: So there's this disconnect, maybe, between what she's actually feeling and experiencing and what she's sharing with people, whereas your dad, it seems like there's very little filter between what's going on in his head and what he's saying. You get very much a kind of direct snapshot of what he's thinking by what he tells you. And with mom, who knows how closely related those things are? How much more there is that she might be experiencing that she's not sharing. [00:38:02]
CLIENT: Yeah. Yeah, I mean, she always seems pretty happy. We would know if she was upset. If she's mad, she'll be really quiet. That's about it.
THERAPIST: And it seems to me like you're a mix of those things. You have some similarities to your dad where you can get caught up in worrying about things and projecting the what ifs, and sometimes you'll share what's going on. But a lot of the times you don't. And like I was saying earlier, sometimes you project a much more energetic, bubbly kind of image than what you're feeling. Like there is sometimes a disconnect between what you're feeling and what people are seeing on the outside.
CLIENT: Yeah, well I feel super uncomfortable projecting anything else. But I also feel super uncomfortable not talking about what I'm feeling. Which is a problem.
THERAPIST: Because you have this mix. [00:39:00]
CLIENT: Yeah, actually I was thinking about what it would be like to really walk around being how I feel. I don't even know how.
THERAPIST: What would that look like?
CLIENT: I don't know. I really have no idea how to even—how to do it. I don't think I'm capable. I mean when I was super exhausted and not sleeping, I would think I would look terrible and my mom would tell me that I looked totally fine.
THERAPIST: They had no idea.
CLIENT: So I don't know exactly.
THERAPIST: And I wonder what it would be like to have maybe more of a parallel between what you're experiencing, what you feel like, and what people are seeing. Or at least maybe be able to have that parallel where it felt appropriate.
CLIENT: Well it doesn't feel appropriate to me, either to walk around moping or being a mess. I don't know, I guess this is very confusing actually, because I like to talk about things. (laughs) It doesn't work for me, but I'll talk about stuff. [00:40:06]
THERAPIST: And I wonder, is there a difference between talking about stuff and kind of being stuff. Like some days you'll talk about it, like "I feel horrible," but you say it with a smile. So you talk about it, but you're not really—there's still somewhat of a disconnect. And I guess what also struck me is you said as you were leaving that party, this other girl started to share a little bit, like "Yeah, it's my bedtime, I've got to get home to bed, I don't have energy for this other stuff"—so much of you wanted her to like "say more, share more." But that's also the exact stuff that you hold back from people.
CLIENT: Yeah, yeah. I tried. (laughs)
THERAPIST: You didn't want her to hold it back. So I wonder what it would be like if you could—if she could share that kind of stuff and if you could share that kind of stuff. Maybe not with anybody at the party, but maybe you found a place where it could be useful or appropriate. [00:41:13]
CLIENT: Yeah, I mean I barely know this girl. We're in classes together, and we talk about class things. So that would be a pretty deep conversation to get into.
THERAPIST: To jump into right away, yeah.
CLIENT: Yeah, maybe we should hang out first. (laughs)
THERAPIST: Inroads.
CLIENT: Yeah, yeah, so I wasn't really surprised that she wasn't ready to just like tell everything right there.
THERAPIST: But she did give you an opening, and you sense that having a very real connection in conversation, that somebody could really get this stuff, might be good somehow. So I wonder if that would be worth pursuing so that you would have a place to practice being a little bit more real. And you would also get maybe an opportunity to have a connection like that with someone. [00:42:01]
It was what you were so craving in group, that people might be able to understand what you were going through and have—be able to sit with people who actually were feeling similarities. And it was such a disappointment when that's not what happened in group.
CLIENT: Did I tell you I quit group?
THERAPIST: You only told me you went the first time, and it was such a disappointment.
CLIENT: I know, I really wish I hadn't. I had to miss one, the second one for a lab thing, and then the third one was the night we were in the hospital, and I just—Josh was like, "Don't leave me." I couldn't bring myself to leave. And I forget—I mean it's only 10 weeks. So I just told her "it doesn't seem to be working out." I was feeling really stressed and dreading going anyway. But then the next week I was like "Gosh, I really wish that I could go." So maybe I'll try again next semester.
THERAPIST: Well can you go back? I know you missed a few.
CLIENT: I guess. I missed half of it now.
THERAPIST: There's still half left. See if you can go back. I mean, I don't know what her feeling would be, how the group has gelled. Maybe it's too late to go back for the semester, I don't know. [00:43:07]
CLIENT: She made a big deal in the beginning about how it's skill-building and so if you miss then you're missing out on the skills they've been building on. (pause) So I mean I should have at least tried one more time.
THERAPIST: Well, some big stuff happened that you had no control over.
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: Well let's stop there for today. I want to check our schedules, because it bounced you around. And then maybe do a couple minutes of deep breathing. So I think I have us for the 13th? At 3:30, maybe? Yes.
CLIENT: Is $25 correct?
THERAPIST: $25 is correct, yes.
CLIENT: I haven't written a check for $25 yet. (laughs)
THERAPIST: That is right. Yeah, that's right with the recording. So yeah, and our next meeting is all the way next week. So the 13th at our sort of normal 3:30 time, which I feel like we never get to do in normal time. And then that works for me for the next few weeks without any interruptions. [00:44:12]
CLIENT: Oh wow. Okay. Nothing else has changed for awhile?
THERAPIST: No. I am actually sort of my normal schedule with no—barring nay more hurricanes, of course.
CLIENT: Yeah. Or snowstorms.
THERAPIST: Yeah. So I have the 13th, 20th, 27th, right up through the 4th, 11th, and 18th, can all be normal 3:30s for me.
CLIENT: Great.
THERAPIST: Let's see if we can relax. And not feel tired, but feel relaxed.
Let yourself take some deep breaths and just find what a natural pace for deep breathing would be for you today. (pause) And as you do that, scanning your body, taking notice of where you're holding tension. (pause) [00:45:05]
Think about taking a deep breath into any spot that feels tense, tight, or uncomfortable. (pause) And then as you exhale, intentionally let go of that tension. (pause) Think about dropping your shoulders. Dropping your jaw. Letting the tension melt away. Letting your body sink into the chair. And let the floor hold up the weight of your legs. Let your body relax. (pause)
Continuing to breathe at a relaxed pace, let yourself repeat that process. Inhaling and scanning, noticing where you feel uncomfortable. Exhaling and letting that go. Letting your body be more relaxed, heavy. [00:46:07]
Also take a moment just to notice what thoughts are going through your head. (pause) And then allow yourself to let go of those thoughts without any judgment, letting them escape your head for just a moment. Any important thoughts can come back to you. It's also okay to let them go for now. (pause)
And repeat that process with each breath. Noticing how your thoughts return. Noticing how you let them go. (pause)
Give yourself a chance to notice if anything feels different from when you started. (pause) Let yourself hang on to any relaxation your body's gained. (pause) [00:47:21]
And let yourself slowly, at your own pace, carry that bit of relaxation back to the room with you. (pause) How'd you do? You don't feel tired?
CLIENT: No, I feel confused, but I feel kind of great. Maybe I feel great and I just think I'm really tired, but I'm not. (laughs) So I felt confused. But I feel great.
THERAPIST: Well, I'm glad you feel good. And maybe if doing something like that allows you to access that, you can -
CLIENT: Maybe. Maybe I just have to notice that I feel great. I just associate feeling like this with being exhausted, but it's not necessarily. [00:48:02]
THERAPIST: Well, I don't know. I think you have a lot of different feelings. I mean, you come in and you say you feel exhausted and you can't move and you feel like falling asleep, I doubt you're wrong about that. But I don't think it's the only thing you're capable of feeling. Maybe you're also capable of feeling relaxed and alert at the same time. But tired and relaxed are not the same thing. And so doing the deep breathing and allowing yourself to feel relaxed is different than what you usually feel, maybe.
So hold onto this for as much as you can. If it disappears, it disappears, and we'll take another shot at it. So I will see you in two weeks.
CLIENT: Okay. Thank you.
THERAPIST: You're welcome.
END TRANSCRIPT
