<font size="4"><b>Fear Gripped Me</b></font>

OF the multitude of reasons causing minds to give
way, mine will most likely appear trivial.


Most people have a fear, some fear mice, spiders, thunder;
some fear to be closed in, some fear to be shut out.


My bogyman since a child has been the insurance man.
I so well remember the distress caused to my mother,
grandmother and an aunt by the continual revolting
pressure of these men. I had been warned about them by
a few people who regretted listening to their tales. I
hoped to avoid them in my life.


However, I lost my parents and discovered a small
policy in my name. A persuasive tongue urged me to
continue the payments. I had a sense of foreboding as I
did so. I was sixteen and it was 1926.


Whenever life assurance was mentioned I had a feeling
of fear. I now wonder if it was feminine intuition warning
me, or do we attract the things we fear?


In 1944, an insurance representative called uninvited.
My husband, thinking to help me, bought endowment
policies. The agent told us he was one of his firm's best
salesmen, so I asked him not to try and sell me any more.


In 1948 the sales talk began again. The agent seemed a
reasonable man, so I explained such talk distresses me.
I promised to give his proposal consideration and let him
know. This I did, but it was useless. The patter continued,
excuses were made to call at unnecessary times.

[p. <i>111</i>]

I asked him one day: "Why do you keep on at me, when
I keep telling you that you are making me ill?" "We have
to keep the money coming in," he said. I told him I
would hold him responsible if I suffered a breakdown.


I could write at length of the trouble I had, sufficient
to say I received one shock after another regarding policies
already held.


For over three years, my mind was made to dwell on
the one thing I had so wished to avoid. It had become a
mountain, an obsession. If one has a worry the obvious
thing is to do something about it, but on all sides I was
told nothing could be done about it. In recent years
insurance policies have improved greatly but in many
cases it would seem the methods used to obtain business
have not.


My husband too was nervous, so we did not help each
other. I felt the need to talk to someone and for someone
to talk to us, but I knew of no one to whom I could go.


I feel I am heading for a breakdown, so I go to my
doctor and tell him so. I do not explain my reasons fully,
for he is obviously a busy man. I cannot expect him to
have time for lengthy explanations from me. I ask him if,
perhaps, I could see a psychiatrist as I need to talk. He
says certainly I can and makes an appointment for me to
go with my husband to a London hospital.


On arrival here, I am interviewed alone by a student,
whose task is to fill in a questionnaire before him. I
am asked: "Any insanity in the family?" "What did
your parents die of?" "Any brothers and sisters?" "Are
they all right?" "What do they do?" I began to feel
extremely uneasy. Something had gone wrong. Where
was the kindly person to whom I might pour out my
problems.

[p. <i>112</i>]

At last I am interviewed by a psychiatrist, at a distance,
with others present. I hear him say something about
treatment. My heart sinks, for I believe I am being
treated as a mental patient.


Outside his room a woman doctor tells me I must have
electrical treatment. What treatment can solve my problem?
I am assured it will help me, so I lie on a couch. I
am being held tightly.


When I come to, I am lying on a rubber mattress on
the floor of a fairly large room. The place appears deserted.
Up till now I had only been anxious, but now I
became deeply depressed. I break down and sob. I
finally get up and go to seek someone. I am asked if I
would like to become an in-patient for a short time and I
accept this offer as I feel it might be a good thing to
get away from my husband for a short while. I go home to
wait for a vacancy.


After a week or two, I am admitted to the psychiatric
department of the hospital. I believe this place is considered
to be one of the finest in England. It could have
been a country club. Set in rural surroundings and everyone
so nice and friendly. No unnecessary restrictions
here, except perhaps one goes to bed early, but this you
expect to do.


I could write a letter and pop over the road to post it.
There was a telephone box outside the ward for the convenience
of patients. One could both make and receive
calls here. A most comfortable sitting room was available
with television and other things of interest. I could wander
round the beautiful grounds unrestricted. There were
tennis courts for those well enough who wanted to play.
Later I was allowed to go shopping. No gates prevented
one from going out.


Nurses and kitchen staff were very friendly and kind,

[p. <i>113</i>]

After a few weeks here, I was allowed home for weekends.
These weekends, however, were not easy for my
husband who had to come and collect me. A fairly long
journey meant he had few opportunities to rest. It must
have been very wearing for him.


I had had three more electric treatments and felt much
better, so I asked if I might go home. The woman
doctor, whom I was under, agreed to this, providing I
went to see her as an out-patient.


I did so two or three times at fortnightly intervals. I
walked on air as I ascended the stone stairs of the hospital.
It was wonderful to be well again. I had made arrangements
to go away for a holiday and, thinking it advisable
to see the doctor immediately prior to leaving, I fixed the
next appointment for three weeks' time. This was most
unfortunate, for during that third week strange things
began to happen.


I remember standing on the station platform watching
a train go out. It was all out of focus. Things began waving
about. Traffic on the road was blurred. It was not
safe for me to be on the streets. I seemed to be losing
control of my brain. After a few days of this, my visions
of a holiday began to fade. I should never be able to go.
I became extremely depressed.


My mountain was back. My husband and sister sent
for the doctor. He could not get me back to the hospital
in which I had been previously.


I knew I was ill. I knew something would have to be
done, but I feared being sent to one of the dreadful places
of which I had heard. I considered running away. But
I could not work, I could not trouble friends.


I am sent to the observation ward of a local hospital.

[p. <i>114</i>]

"He went home a long time ago," I am told. How
cruel this was! For, of course, my husband is distressed,
because he has not been allowed to keep his promise
and my depression deepens. Later a new patient came to
the bed opposite and is treated in the same way.


This was an awful ward; the barred windows, none too
clean; the locked doors, a most depressing atmosphere;
no friendly smiles. In a day or two I am visited by a
woman doctor. It is a relief to talk. But I am so depressed
I say: "I wish I was dead."


Many people have said these words, perhaps many
times, but I had said them in the wrong place. It was
explained to my husband that, because I was depressed
and threatened my life, I could not be released.


Next day, two special chairs are placed by my bed soon
to be occupied by two strangers. They do not introduce
themselves and I ask them who they are. They have very
kind faces, but I get no answer. "Are you a doctor?"
I say to the man. "Are you a welfare worker?" I ask the
woman. Only the man replies: "Yes, I am a doctor. Tell
me what is troubling you."


All that I told them was true. I was in a very distressed
condition. I was ill, but I knew I was.


I am taken by ambulance to the mental hospital.
On arrival here I am received by a sister and staff nurse
in a small room. I am weighed and they complete the
formalities. They do not speak to me. I finally speak to
them. I ask where I am. No answer. I ask again and I
am told in  hospital. That is what they call it, but
I was only too well aware that this was no ordinary hospital.

[p. <i>115</i>]

I remained in bed for the first few days, for I was
bodily ill. I had a feeling of complete exhaustion and the
nerves of my head felt inflamed.


I wished a doctor would come and talk to me. But the
days go by and no one does.


I write a letter one day. Ella, a young mother in the
next bed, noticed me sealing the envelope. "Put V.P.
on the back," she tells me and explains that this means
voluntary patient. Your letter would not then be
opened and read. Sister, however, happens to be coming
down the ward. She has heard and says: "You can't do
that. You're certified."


All eyes are turned upon me.


Ella said: "She can't mean you."


I remember the two strangers on those two special
chairs and I replied: "I guess she does."


"But," she protested, "you talk such sense."


"You just can't understand," she went on. "Those
you would expect to be certified are not, and those you
do not expect to be, are." She cannot get over her
astonishment. She was puzzled.


It may have been some consolation to me to know that
I was not regarded as peculiar by those to whom I had
spoken. But I began to think. I became fearful. Exactly
what did this mean? Could they do what they liked with
me? I was a prisoner, worse, in fact, for at least a prisoner
got a hearing. No one need take any notice of me. I
cannot contact the outside world. No one came to see
me, for my husband had been told to stay away. I did not
know this at the time, of course. I just thought it odd.


I also learned later that the husband of a friend of mine,
a dentist, had made a fuss. I had been visiting them
regularly and had been with them a day or two before I
went away. They thought it scandalous that I should be

[p. <i>116</i>]

A week, or perhaps just over, after my admission, I was
taken with two others for an X-ray. I was not at all happy
about this, for I had been through this procedure before.
I did so want to get well, if possible without further
treatment, but it now seemed my hopes of doing this were
to be dashed.


Each morning the ward was inspected by someone
whose status I cannot state, for we were never introduced.
I suspect she was an administrative sister, for she was similarly
dressed to the sisters, but her uniform and belt were
of a different shade.


I would be viewed from the bottom of my bed as
though I was a peculiar specimen, but she never spoke to
me. On two or three occasions I smiled at her and ventured
to say "Good morning", hoping I might at least get
a smile of encouragement from her. What a hope! So
many hard faces did I see about this place during my stay.
To me they were those of gaolers.


There were the jingling keys! One could go through
no door, without the humiliation of asking and perhaps
waiting for someone to open it for you. The only exceptions
were the doors to the lavatories where you found
only half doors and a big gap at the top and another at
the bottom and no lock.


There was nowhere one can escape to, no privacy, no
corner to crawl into even to have a good cry.


I feel I have stepped back 100 years. This is an "Alice
in Wonderland" sort of place. But this is 1952. These
things cannot be. I must draw the attention of the outside
world to these things.


On a notice board it is stated patients can write, without
having their letters opened, to the Board of Control,

[p. <i>117</i>]

Exactly what I wrote I cannot remember. I know it
was an ordeal to write it, for I could not concentrate
properly. Nothing was clear. I had to go to the notice
several times to be sure I had got the correct address.
The writing was blurred.


I wonder why that notice is here? How many people
have their hopes raised and write; and to what purpose?
In my case I had no acknowledgement until after I had
returned home. Also one is informed that "A patient must
be allowed to see a doctor if he or she asks to do so." I
wonder also why this is there? It means precisely nothing,
for, as I learned too late to benefit by it, the only way was
to write to the doctor.


At last having waited about ten days, I am informed
that I am to see a doctor. There were three of us that
morning from my ward. I was the last to go in.


He says straight away: "We think you should have more
treatment." This had evidently been decided upon after
attention has been given to my papers which had been
forwarded from the London hospital. So my hopes of
being able to talk and of having an independent opinion
fade. The doctor was not prepared to have a discussion
with me. He saw his task as being that of intimating a
firm decision.


I do not share his opinion. I feel it is wrong for me. My
head has an unnatural feeling. The nerves feel inflamed.
My brain is struggling to get back to its normal state. I
still want talks and a good tonic. We talk a little but he is
obviously late. He keeps looking at his watch. He wants

[p. <i>118</i>]

So it was I returned to my bed with so much unsaid.


The doctor had said I had not had enough treatment.
That was the reason I had gone back. But I had not only
gone back I had gone back a bit further. Had I not gone
shopping, bought materials, and made them up, while
waiting for admission to the London hospital? I was not
in anything like this state then or I certainly could not
have done it.


I am looking for someone who will understand. I
have listened to the psychiatrist talking on the Silver
Lining programme. How understanding he sounded!
A nervous depressed person must have love, patience
and sympathetic understanding given to him or her in
abundance. My feeling of a need of these things was not
then so unnatural.


To give these things would take time, however, and
here no one has any time. It is quicker to shock one out of
it. In the majority of cases there is an improvement
quickly. Almost without exception, all I speak to are
full of praise for what it has done for them.


I felt, however, it was not a cure for me. I had certainly
improved for a time but I felt that if I had more I
should go through this phase again as the effect wears off.
The feeling is difficult to define. It was like the spring of
a watch. You are wound up and feel better, but it has to
unwind. I heard my husband saying: "Have your
treatment. Why should you be different to anyone else?"


I know that my husband at last is to try and do something
about my problem. I know that if he is successful it
will do me more good than any doctor. But, although I
am fairly certain about this, I cannot be positive. If I
go on tormenting myself, I might go completely round

[p. <i>119</i>]

My problem to others must have appeared as too ridiculous.
Were there not people here with real worries? I
had been on my own since the age of 16, until my marriage
in my late twenties. I think I had my share of worry but
nothing had ever got me down like this.


The view taken was that nothing can be done about it.
I must accept it. Why should I want anything done about
it? It is not really a bad thing. Was I worried about
paying the insurance premiums? No. I cannot accept
this can't business. I want to be free of the thing that
has caused so much worry and trouble.


Other people have been made fools of, others have
been worn down by pestering agents. They don't end up
in mental hospitals, though some may come pretty near to
it.


I feel it is important, not only that doctors should
understand, but that the patient should feel that they
understand. I did not feel this. I know that, although one
is apparently ignored, eyes around have been trained to
observe. What they observe is, I expect, written in their
books to help understanding. Appearances, however, can
be deceptive. Can they have any idea of what is really in
a person's mind without talking to them?


Next morning early, I am informed I am for treatment.
I must have no breakfast. It is the same pattern over
again. Everything within me tells me to protest; the more
I am made to suffer, the deeper will my worry go.

[p. <i>120</i>]

Reason says I should make no fuss. I cannot go on as I
am, all would condemn me if I refused. It is the nurse's
job to give an injection. I feel weak. I cannot face an
argument with her. I should only be worn down.


I feel that I have been pushed down and down, since I
came here. I have found no understanding and there is
no fight left in me.


So in an hour or two I am in the queue.


I come round to find myself in a little cell-like room.
Before my memory returned fully, after every treatment,
I was always, so it seemed, back in the bleak room of the
London hospital.


Another patient comes to me presently. She says they
had a bit of a job to get me there, for I am not exactly a
lightweight. She also told me I had screamed and frightened
others. Afterwards for further treatments, I have
the ordeal of being last in the queue.


In my cell there was a bed, a chair and a dressing table
of sorts. Above me was a high barred window. The
mattress was old and well stained, one straw pillow, one
softer. But many nights I slept on a pillow of straw, for
there were not enough soft ones to go round and, on
returning from a weekend at home, I would find someone
had taken mine. The window was minus a pane of glass
and, as this was October, a few chilly nights made me
aware of the draught.


I decided to put my pillow at the foot of the bed but
was informed that this I must not do. I should get into
terrible trouble, so my husband fixed a piece of cardboard
in the hole. This served its purpose for quite a while,
then the weather affected it. It became twisted and came
out.


I would then wait till all was quiet at night, get out and
remake the bed so I slept with my head at the foot.

[p. <i>121</i>]

Although the treatments given here were the same as
given elsewhere, other factors can help, retard, or even
make a patient worse. To my astonishment the door was
shut upon me at night and I was locked in.


Where was the sense in having treatment for a depressive
illness, when all around things were done to distress and
depress?


How stupid it was! For the night before, an outside
door had been inadvertently left open. I could have gone
through it.


The humiliation, the helplessness one felt crushed the
spirit. Was I violent or troublesome? Of course not.
What then was the reason?


In the next cell to mine there was a saleswoman. There
did not appear to be much wrong with her, but she was,
I should say, a little more odd than I, yet she was not
locked in. One day she complained she could smell gas
so she was removed.


After a few weeks I went home at weekends and this
made it all just tolerable.


We had to sit at the tables some time before meals were
ready and were not allowed to get up till the word was
given. The sisters had their meals in the kitchen and so,
until they moved, we had to sit, until we could clear
away.


Exercise was taken in the yard outside. A high wall
kept you there. In the centre was a circular kind of thing.
I wondered if it could have been a well in the old days?
Now boards are placed to form seats. Since it was too
chilly to sit for long, we walked round and round. I felt
like a caged animal.


Into the yard came patients from wards above. Some
of those had been there some time. I remember the
elderly woman who daily drove her carriage up and down.

[p. <i>122</i>]

After four treatments I felt I should like to see the
doctor. In the London hospital one was interviewed after
each treatment. You would be asked how you were. This
seemed quite a natural thing to do. Not here though.
During the ten weeks I remained, only one staff nurse
occasionally asked: "How are you this morning?" Only
after I had completed six treatments did a doctor ask how
I was. One day I had a sick turn and was in pain. It was
no good telling anyone. Yet it is the patients who are
supposed to be odd. In ordinary life you get from almost
everyone you speak to a "Good morning. How are you?"
So you are made aware by these small things that this is a
different world with no connection with the world outside.


So I hesitated to ask to see a doctor. Such a request
would be frowned upon. I did not wish to trouble anyone
unnecessarily and I did not wish to be labelled uncooperative.
So I did not ask.


After the fifth treatment I feel an urgency. I have a
symptom I have not experienced before. I need reassurance,
an explanation of the whys and wherefores is
too much to hope for. I am almost certain before I ask
that I am asking the impossible, but I summon courage
from somewhere and I approach the staff nurse. I pick
on her, for she seem a little more human than others.
"You will see him in the treatment room," she says.
Why! Oh why! am I treated as a half-wit? For she
knows and I know, and she knows that I know, that, once
in there, there is not the remotest chance of any discussion.


However when I get there I quickly say my piece. A
hand indicates I am to take my place and that's that.

[p. <i>123</i>]

Shortly afterwards, I am troubled with odd headaches.
I feel terrible on awakening. I ask if I might have an
aspirin. For two mornings this is given to me, but on
the third it is refused. I expect it has been concluded that
I am putting it on, or perhaps it's all due to imagination.


Later an outside doctor treated me for blood pressure.


The doctor who has been treating me now leaves. He
goes abroad and so one day I see another. He asks me
why I am unhappy here. I tell him of my objection to
being locked in at night with a smelly utensil. He is
amazed. "Surely you are not? It is quite unnecessary."
I have apparently been overlooked. I should not have
been in that ward. We decide, however, that since I shall
be leaving in two weeks' time, it is not worth transferring
elsewhere.


I tell the night nurse I am not to be locked in. She
believes me, and does not lock the door. When, however,
she is off duty and a sister is on, my protest is of no avail.
The door is locked, and this two nights before leaving.


I feel I must get away. The atmosphere is no good to
me. I am in danger of becoming a nervous wreck if I stay.


Outside the kitchen windows one sees poor creatures
who will most likely spend the rest of their days here.
They pick up the bread put out for the birds, stuff it down
their necks, in their stockings, anywhere.


So I go before the superintendent and the Chairman
of the Board. Both are exceedingly kind. What a pity
my letter had not gone to one of them!


It had been pointed out to me that if I wished someone
to keep in touch after release, someone to call upon me,
I must remain certified. If I accept my discharge, no one
can call.


Although I am better, I feel unsure of myself. I am
a little fearful, my confidence gone. I feel I would like

[p. <i>124</i>]

What a charming person my visitor was. How relieved
I should have been if I had been able to talk to such a
person when in hospital.


I did not progress, however. I had a most uncomfortable
feeling in my neck and head. I could get no explanation
about this and became increasingly uneasy as it did
not clear.


I believe it is usual for most patients to accept their
discharge after one month's parole, perhaps after two or
even three. Mine had extended beyond this period and
so, one day, when I go before the Board, I was told that I
was to be detained for a month.


No one can be blamed for this for I had become reproachful
to my husband and, not surprisingly, he, too,
was in a nervous state. He needed a break and the doctor
did what he thought best for us. This time it is agreed
that I shall have no treatment.


The thought of being confined again in this place of
fear filled me with dread. I was upset. I felt this place
could not help me. A nurse took me to a different part
of the hospital, the place where I should have gone
previously. Once again I heard the jingling keys, the
lock was turned.


The surroundings here were certainly better but the
attitude of the staff was the same.


I wonder how many come here, only to feel more
frightened and so do not stay for treatment. How many
claimed cures are nothing of the sort? For I know of ex-patients
having to seek help elsewhere. Some go to the
Marriage Guidance Council seeking an understanding
person to talk to, some pay to have private talks with
psychologists and some turn to spiritual healers.

[p. <i>125</i>]

There is no follow up, so how can they tell! For three
years I received an annual questionnaire from the London
hospital. Among other questions were: "Did I feel I had
benefitted from the treatment?" "Was I now quite well?"
They wanted the answers to enable them to decide how
to treat other patients.


I go home weekends and on one Sunday, when I am
home, my husband collapsed. I could feel no pulse and
thought him dead. Neighbours came and were doubtful.
But at last there is a flicker, I suppose it was a faint. He
was not at all well but I had to return to hospital. I
explained the situation to the sister on duty.


In the morning I ask sister for a chit to enable me to
phone. One must obtain written permission to do this.
I am fobbed off. She must ask the doctor. So I have to
wait; hours of anxiety that need not have been. I see the
doctor go and expect to be given the necessary permission.
Nothing is said, so I ask again. She has not asked the
doctor. I am insistent. I must phone, my mind is in
torment. So, grudgingly, she writes the permission herself.
If she could do it at twelve, why not at nine?


There are the little dictators. A young nurse having
swept the dirt into a pile stops me as I am passing. "You!
pick it up," she says. The same nurse, when on duty in
the dining room and she has fish and potatoes to spare,
only offers the potatoes. The fish goes into the pig bin.


I try to put myself in their place. Why do they seem
to be unapproachable and hard?


They have their own grievances and frustrations. They
have a very trying job and must long sometimes to escape
themselves. They are not always well, and perhaps in
order to stay sane they must become insensitive to what
goes on around them.


Incredible as it may seem, there are some patients who

[p. <i>126</i>]

The Board sits on every fourth Monday. On the
Sunday evening before my month was up, I hear some
patients saying they are going before the Board. I have
heard nothing. I do not want to remain here another
month so I ask sister about it. "You are not on the list,"
she says but she made enquiries. I had again been overlooked.
This is rectified. Though far from well, this
time I take my discharge. I have no wish to be hauled
back again.

