TRANSCRIPT OF AUDIO FILE:
______________________________________________________________________________
BEGIN TRANSCRIPT:
CLIENT: Last time we (inaudible at 00:02) it was right before I moved and, yeah, well, moving is always kind of stressful. My room got packed up rather quickly because I just had a room and I hadn't really settled, but Jeremy, when I was helping him pack up his place, it, you know, was exhausting. But we did it and Jeremy was just a little bit antsy because he had never had movers before. But I'm glad we did have movers because it was very easy with two residences, parking permits. I mean, I got the parking permits and, like, put them up but people were parked in the tow zone, which, I don't know, I started getting, like, "What, you people need to move."
And I didn't like how I was kind of aggressive and, like, you know, I got aggressive because I was just very concerned about our moving truck fitting in there. [00:01:05] And I had put the sign up and paid 60 dollars for the moving signage (ph) and there was one car that the person wasn't there, so they couldn't move and I was like, "Oh, call the cops to get them towed," and the movers were like, "No, you know, it sucks to get towed." And I felt bad because, I mean, you know, like, moving is sort of like a stressful thing and I just didn't feel like I best—maybe I did represent myself and not a side of myself that I would like to represent. I don't know why the mover caring, like, what kind of person I was was important, but, you know, in another sense, like, you know, I guess I just have some sort of control over my behavior. I mean, I think we know deep down inside, like when we mess up or when we act irrational. And it doesn't make me proud or happy. [00:02:05]
THERAPIST: Is that what you felt happened?
CLIENT: Yeah, I just felt that I got a little bit irrational and I got upset because they were, you know, to interfere with the move and, I mean, everyone was moving that day. (laughter) It's a tough weekend. (laughter) And, you know, I mean, there's worse situations that the (inaudible at 02:28) probably had to deal with, rather than just one car in the whole spot. But you know, I mean, the movers were really nice and, you know, and we gave—I got them Gatorade. So they were very appreciative and worked very efficiently.
And so for the past week or so, Jeremy and I have been sort of—we've kind of been fine tuning the decorating and it's really nice. I feel a lot—I mean, I have to ride an hour in and an hour out, but I just read on the bus and I like that even though there is a commute, it's a routine. Like, I can come home to a home. It's really nice, I mean, and it's just sort of really, like, moving in together really sort of solidifying that we do make a good team and, like, we really do have sort of, you know, a good sort of feedback and interplay with like ideas, exchange of ideas, and we can bounce ideas off of each other. [00:03:31] But like, I've been really happy. You know, and I...
THERAPIST: It feels like a good decision for you.
CLIENT: Yes, it was a very good decision because, like, now I can, like—like, I've been having more time to, like, go to dance (ph). I'm now taking a class. I met with my advisor and he seemed very pleased with my research progress. Because I've read, like, 200 pages of this Chaos book and of course I, you know, skimmed a couple 50 pages of (inaudible at 04:06) when I saw they weren't relevant, but yeah, he was, like, really excited and, you know, recovering from brain cancer and stem cell treatment. He looked great. So I was, you know, really excited to see myself sort of, like, advance. And the class that I'm taking right now, it's a little bit above my head. It's in a subject that I thought I had an idea about, but I didn't. (laughter) So it's actually a lot of work. [00:04:40]
And I'm finding—I went to the doctor to see, like, why I've been falling asleep. She saw that I was, you know, low on iron reserves, but then I went to an endocrinologist and, you know, we're trying to cancel out all these sort of possibilities. But it is sort of challenging, like, I didn't take a nap today. I don't know why I didn't take a nap today. I mean, but normally, during the day, I have to take, like, a 10, 15, 30 minute nap. I just sat my head down and just—I mean, I even did it on the bus. I didn't fall asleep on the bus, but I was very close to...
THERAPIST: So you're really tired still.
CLIENT: Yeah, and I don't know if...
THERAPIST: And you had been increasing your iron because I know when I saw you last, you had gotten the iron results back, but nothing else.
CLIENT: Yeah, so I did—yeah, I'm taking two iron supplements of, like, 500 times my daily iron. [00:05:42] And (pause) yeah, I don't know. Narcolepsy runs in the family, so I don't know, like, whether this is a thyroid issue or, like, a hormonal issue, and that's what the doctor, like, we're all trying to rule out. Because it is sort of frustrating that I fall asleep so often, like, I mean... (laughter)
THERAPIST: It's a real interruption.
CLIENT: Yeah and I mean, you know, it's really hard. Like, I mean, I have all of these, like, sugar free peppermints in my office just to, like, keep on, you know, just—it's like I'll go to sleep or I'm distracted if I'm not eating or drinking caffeine. And that, you know, it's kind of disgusting sometimes when I think of how much caffeine I have some days just to stay up.
THERAPIST: How much are you having? What's a disgusting amount? [00:06:40]
CLIENT: I would say, like, three or four coups. I don't know, I guess that's how much an average American has these days.
THERAPIST: A cup like this or a cup like a teacup, like...
CLIENT: Probably like a (pause), kind of, like, an eight ounce cup. So I guess 32 ounces of coffee. That's (inaudible at 07:04) worse days, but (pause) I guess, you know, for some reason I feel, like, guilty about my caffeine consumption.
THERAPIST: That's actually not—like you said, that's probably pretty average for the average American. I mean, if you're drinking really an eight ounce cup of coffee, that's not what most people are getting from when they go to Starbucks. I mean, a tall is 12 ounces and most people are getting a Grande and they're drinking one or two of those a day? So if you're drinking out of a mug, which is closer to what a typical eight ounce serving, you know, what they used to think of as a cup of coffee, you're probably not having that much more. I think (inaudible at 07:49) obviously is a real problem with the tiredness and you shouldn't feel like you are fighting sleep all the time. There is something wrong there, but it doesn't sound like the caffeine is something to be worried about. It sounds like it's really, you know, figuring out what is making you feel so (inaudible at 08:05).
CLIENT: Yeah, I think maybe just, like, yeah. I think I don't feel so guilty about the caffeine, but I feel guilty about having to do stuff to stay up.
THERAPIST: Stay awake. And that seems like, you know, I'm glad you're following up with the endocrinologist and going back because there is a problem there.
CLIENT: Yeah, I mean, you know, and it's (pause), you know, it's just sort of—and I sleep pretty regular, like, from, like, 11:00 to 7:00, 11:30 to 7:30 every morning. So that...
THERAPIST: So you're getting close to a good night's sleep.
CLIENT: Yeah, yeah. And so, I mean, I thought that would help and some days it does, some days it doesn't. And, you know, like today I didn't fall asleep, but I had kind of a lot of excitement. Well, I was excitement (ph) because Jeremy bought me a dress. It was really sweet of him. I mean, I tried it on and it was the wrong size and there was only one at the store. And it's a very kind of boho—it's a free people (ph) dress and, you know, he saw how much I liked it. [00:09:17] And, like, I was like, you know, "I'll just get it next month." And he's like, "We'll talk about it." And like, I don't know, I guess—I mean, this week, I mean, I guess—I mean, I really—I don't know why. I guess he was, you know, just was really happy and he says that he's proud of us as a couple and, like, I mean, I was just, like, near tears because it was just so sweet.
THERAPIST: It's a really nice thought, yeah.
CLIENT: I mean, the fact that, I mean—yeah, I mean, you know, he knew I wanted the dress and I could've waited for it and I told him that, you know, he doesn't have to do that but he did it. And another thing which is really neat is that I'm going to wear it to his friend's rehearsal dinner for—his friend's getting married and we're invited to their rehearsal dinner, naturally—he's the best man. And I was just going to wear, like, black dress number one or black dress number two. I'm, like, and then when I tried on this dress, it was like, "Oh, this is so pretty," and then I thought the idea of wearing it to the rehearsal dinner and Jeremy was like, "Well."
At first he was kind of questionable about it. I was like, "OK, OK, you know, it's fine. It's not a big deal. It's just a nice dress and I just want to have it eventually. I'll get it in October. Maybe it'll be on sale. If it's not there when I get it, you know, that was God's way of saying, you know, it's not the dress for you." But and then he started to think more and more about it and now, like, he was like, "You know, it really could work for the rehearsal dinner." And it was really strange because, like, this is a polar opposite from, like, you know, when he was very controlling over what I wore and, like, I mean, it's just really interesting because, like—I mean, I...
THERAPIST: [What do you] (ph) really think is different? [00:11:12]
CLIENT: Well, I think one thing is that the clothes that I go outlandish in, like, say I am pretty boho I guess. Today, it's like he, you know, he really—he secretly does like this boho style and he thinks it looks nice on me. And he thinks that it's a good representation of me. And I guess it makes him proud to be with me. (laughter) I don't know, it's kind of (pause), you know, (inaudible at 11:42), you know, it's more accepting because he loves me. (laughter) I think that looks good, yeah. It is, because I feel more open to be myself around him. Like, I mean, there's times, like, when I'm a little bit goofy (laughter) and, like, he got this label maker to label things in our cover, because I got him all these jars and he puts all these things in the jars [blast canisters] (ph). And so he got a label maker just to be super—I would say organized. He calls himself OCD, but I tell him that's not a good idea, so super-organized. (laughter) [00:12:21]
But I was just having fun and I created a label that said "boyfriend." And I was just laughing and rolling on the floor (laughter) and he was just putting together IKEA stuff, like, ha ha. But then later that night, created a label and put it on me and it said "love of my life" and (laughter) I was just like, "Aw, I feel bad for teasing you," but, I mean, it was a, you know, light-hearted fun. I mean, but it was just, you know, I really feel, like, really positive. It's interesting because, like, you know, I mean, (inaudible at 12:53), like, six months, four months, three months ago, like, I can say, "Yeah, he's a really nice guy and, like, you know, I mean, we seem to work nice." But I had all this sort of aggression towards him because I was not living with him. Like, there was all this stress of getting my...
THERAPIST: There was a lot of resentment about never being in your own space and not feeling he appreciated how hard it was to pack your stuff and go from place to place.
CLIENT: Yeah, and I feel like much more relaxed and, like, it was a really good, you know, like, it was a really good decision. And I was about to see my mom, my whole family, and, you know, it's kind of interesting because I know my mom was really, like, not really accepting.
THERAPIST: She was pretty unhappy with your idea to live with him. [00:13:52]
CLIENT: Yeah, but, you know, in a same sense, like regardless, I feel like it was a really good decision. And it's weird—it's like today on the bus when I was—or taking the train, and I sat down, and normally I just sort of read papers on the train. And this lady, she starts talking to me. And then she just kept on talking about politics and she actually had a disability, so she was, like—when she was talking about politics, she was not making very clear arguments and she was, like, saying, "Oh, oh, oh, I just hope he gets reelected." And you know, that's fine. I respect everyone's position, but some of the points that she was bringing up, you know, I just said—I was like, "Well, you know, it's a tough election." She was like, "Are you voting?" And I was like, "Well, I still have to make up my mind on who I'm going to vote for and, you know, because I'm kind of caught in-between." [00:15:02] But, you know, I was like, some of the things that she was saying, I disagreed with her, but it was hard to, like, you know, say, like, "No, I disagree with that."
I know sometimes what I feel, like, with my mom, you know, like, it's going to be that challenge of playing like the someone that—because, like, I could stand up to my mom, you know, and, like, I will say that, you know, she does challenge me to say it was a really good decision. But, you know, like, I know she's going to be out to attack me.
THERAPIST: What were the similarities between what was happening with this woman and you and your mom and you?
CLIENT: Well, the fact that—well, with this woman, I couldn't—like, I felt bad that (pause), like, it seemed like we were in—like, first of all, I didn't want to discuss anything. I mean, I was just happy reading. I didn't even feel like talking. And then politics always gets me a little riled up and so I just wanted to walk away and say I don't want to talk about politics, but I didn't. I felt bad because she had a disability and I—like, it was, I felt kind of like she needed a friend. And it's kind of weird because, like, with my mom, you know, I'm going—I spent 300 dollars just to go see her and help out with her nutcracker. And, you know, it's sort of like I'm going out there on a limb because I feel bad. I feel guilt for, you know. I don't know, I just feel guilt for some reason. (laughter)
THERAPIST: All right. But let's explore that? What do you feel guilty for? [00:16:57]
CLIENT: Well I feel guilty for a lot of reasons, like the fact that I hid me choosing to live with Jeremy for a long time, that sort of this guilt that (pause), you know, that I'm doing something against her best wishes and it's sort of that I chose myself over the family and that (inaudible at 17:27) I can't be there. Because I know she has back issues, medical problems with her back and, you know, I feel bad that I can't be there and I'm not—you know, just that I'm here.
THERAPIST: What would be different if you were there?
CLIENT: Well, things would be very different because I would be teaching dance in her program and I'd be highly influenced by (pause) her views, her, you know. [00:18:05]
THERAPIST: And do you feel like that's what you should be doing?
CLIENT: In a sense (laughter). In a sense I feel guilty that I don't, like, that I'm happy I'm not that way. I'm happy that I moved away and that I'm trying to find, like, what does make me happy. I mean, I do...
THERAPIST: [Do you get that] you have some sense that there's something wrong with not being happy doing those other things?
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: Feelings of guilt often come out of these secret shoulds that we have in our heads, that there's some certain set of rules or a particular way that you are supposed to be doing something. You didn't use those words, but I get the sense that that's what you're thinking.
CLIENT: Well yeah, I mean, you know, I'm like—I mean, whenever I'm not doing, like, yeah, I mean, yeah. I really feel like my mom, like, I mean, I, you know, I work really—well (ph), sometimes I work hard now, but I mean, at least up to this point to get to this school, I worked pretty hard and, you know I...
THERAPIST: (inaudible at 19:18) very hard.
CLIENT: And I don't, like, go out and party or, I mean, you know, or just go on one night stands apart from, like, two. I mean, there's, like, so many other bad things that I could do. I'm just doing one, you know, like, one bad thing and, like, it's like my mom...
THERAPIST: Bad according to who? Who gets to determine what's bad?
CLIENT: Well mom did (laughter) and just doing one thing that she doesn't approve of, it's like...
THERAPIST: That's different than bad.
CLIENT: Yeah. I mean, and then it's just sort of like (pause), I was like, you know, going there to Florida, like, I can't say I'm very excited. I'm more apprehensive. Like, you know, it's really cool that my dad actually is going to be the pilot that's flying me there. I'm excited to see him and my sister. I don't think my sister even knows that I'm living with Jeremy. I, you know, never told her. I never see a reason to because, I mean, (pause) I don't know. [00:20:27]
THERAPIST: What are you not saying?
CLIENT: Well I just, you know, I'm just not telling her that I've moved in, live with Jeremy. I mean, I tell my sister, like, oh, you know, like, all the good things he does and the sweet things that he says.
THERAPIST: And what are you afraid would happen if you told her?
CLIENT: Well, she'd probably yell at me and then just sort of, like—you know, any time I had a problem she would blame it to the bad decision, but then she would start to get over it. Like, she's gotten a lot more accepting. She forgives easily. She was the one that when I was with Chevay (sp?), I think she was upset and said a lot of mean things to me, but then eventually she sort of was there for me, kind of in a weird way.
THERAPIST: But you feel like there would definitely be some consequence to pay before she got there, with regard to this decision? [00:21:27]
CLIENT: Yeah, I mean, yeah. She also has friends in, like, Bulgaria, friends that she's met from her blog and, you know, talk to on a daily basis. And you know, her friend from Bulgaria lives with her boyfriend and, you know, my sister sort of says it more like a fact. I was like, "Oh," you know. I was like, maybe, you know, my sister wouldn't freak out, knowing the conditions. I was like, you know, I just—there's no point, no point. And then like...
THERAPIST: It's really hard to do something that you know other people—important people and your mom, your sister—are going to be disapproving of (inaudible at 22:09). It's important to distinguish between what they approve of and what's right. There aren't any set rules about what's right and what's wrong and what you're supposed to do and what you're not supposed to do. The few things that fit those categories are very extreme and the rest is really up for interpretation. And so separating this is what they approve versus I'm doing something wrong, and important to distinguish what you think is right for you. Who gets to be in charge of having a judgment about your decisions?
CLIENT: And I guess that's what makes it hard is because I haven't done a lot of thinking on myself.
THERAPIST: But you have recently. I mean, this is a big one.
CLIENT: Yeah, that was a good decision in saying whether (inaudible at 23:08) yeah. (laughter) I don't know if I've made any other big decisions. I've made big decisions not to (pause)—well, no. I think that, yeah, I just...
THERAPIST: I think deciding whether or not to stop at the Masters or pursue the PhD. That was a big decision that I saw you make.
CLIENT: Yeah and it's actually—it's turning out—oh, and finding a job in teaching—that was actually another big decision that does feel very right.
THERAPIST: See, you have more experience in deciding for yourself, listening to your voice, making a decision about what feels right for you than you give yourself credit for.
CLIENT: Yeah, I guess...
THERAPIST: A couple of big ones.
CLIENT: Yeah I know. I guess I just—yeah. And it's interesting because it's just something that, you know, my family's happy. Like, my sister, she told me, "Oh, well, are you sure you're going to like teaching?" And she, you know, expressed some doubts and, you know. But I didn't take it personally and, you know, now everything's just sort of fine or, like, you know. And it's interesting when I internalize and take us (ph) personal, but then again, like when my sister expressed some doubts it was more like two or three sentences versus, like, an hour phone call and crying and... [00:24:36]
THERAPIST: (inaudible at 24:36) hard to hear from your mom.
CLIENT: Yeah, that's—she actually called me, like, after, like, I think a couple days after I moved in. And she just left maybe a week after I moved in. And she just sort of left a message on my phone. And I tried calling her back many times and I never was able to get a hold of her. And then I just got a hold of my dad and I was talking to him. But she sounded, like, very angry on the phone and I remember she—I was supposed to write out a promise letter that said that I promise in one year if Jeremy doesn't make up his mind about engagement that I'm leaving. I was like I don't even know if I'm going to graduate in a year. I'd like to. And I was like, I'd like, you know, but I was like—you know, that's just—it's kind of like...
THERAPIST: Is that a promise you want to make?
CLIENT: No. I wrote out the letter and then I just felt like, no this is wrong. I mean, you know, there's—I mean, you know, I guess if it would be different and was like three, four, five years, but I mean, you know, it's not as simple as, I mean, yeah, maybe, like, on the American gypsy shows or My Big Fat American Gypsy Wedding. [00:25:55] You know, they decide whether in a matter of a week whether they're going to get married. And they're 18 and they've never kissed and, you know, but that's them and I think, you know, this whole sort of (pause) success and marriage, you know, I think it's really—it has to deal with [on the person] (ph).
And if you're ready for it and, you know, I think that's something, like, you just sort of can feel it and understand it and sort of it makes sense. And like to say, oh, well you could propose prematurely, but then people start to have regrets. And I saw that with Jeremy's brother in how when he proposed to Christina, he was still isolating between this and sort of, like, this other girl, which he was always pursuing but she never saw him more than a friend, you know. And he had been with Christina for, like, four years and she gave him an ultimatum. You know, and ultimatums just aren't (pause), you know, sometimes they can motivate us to think, but, you know, I just sort of think that, you know, you don't always have to resort to them in the beginning and I don't know want someone pressuring me and in my life how it goes on. [00:27:20]
You know, another thing is that my priorities are not just number one, get married, have kids. I mean, those are equally priorities and commitments that I would like to make, but I would to finish my PhD and get a job. That's something, like, school and education has been a commitment, you know, I mean, I guess I sort of (inaudible at 27:53) over my head. You know, it's interesting. I noticed this weekend I have a hard time focusing. The other problem—I'll get to that in a second, but I guess just really preparing to, you know, see my parents and...
THERAPIST: [It's been a big piece of taking up] (ph) your mind space.
CLIENT: Yes it has and (pause), you know, I just have to say that I wish I didn't have that stress, but, you know, then I would have to do everything that my parents said. And like, you know, it just sort of reminds me of, like, my mom when she got married the second time. I believe it was out of wedlock or if that means, like, she was pregnant when she got married. I was like, well, you know, that's not very proper, you know, if we're going to start passing judgment. I mean, you know, and I don't think her mom showed up to her second marriage or didn't buy her a wedding dress. Or paid for the wedding. I guess because that was her second husband, or maybe there were other issues. I was like, but, you know, I didn't bring this up because it's like, you know, there's no point in, like, making other people feel bad about what happened in life. Life happens, you make decisions... [00:29:10]
THERAPIST: But you're hoping that she would have learned some empathy from that or also (ph) maybe learn to be maybe a little bit more flexible about what her ideas are, be a little bit more accepting of ideas that are different than what she learned (ph). Having things go a little bit differently than what her idea is.
CLIENT: Yeah, I mean, it's interesting.
THERAPIST: It would be nice to have that support.
CLIENT: Yeah, or just the ability to feel free to talk about anything and that sort of...
THERAPIST: (inaudible at 29:44)
CLIENT: I mean, that's one thing, like my dad, he just sort of—he's more like, "Oh, she's an adult, you know. What am I going to do? I was married at 21. I had a baby at 22."
THERAPIST: I wonder how many of your thoughts in your head are really echoes of things that your mom has said.
CLIENT: Probably a lot. I mean, there's a lot of—I mean, that's one (inaudible at 30:14) why politics, it makes me so—it makes me feel, like, riled up when I talk about them because, you know, I sort of see my—you know, I don't really agree with the Republican party full out and I mean, I'm a social liberal, you know. I don't care about abortion, gay marriage. I think people should do what makes them happy and what seems right to them. And I, you know, to tell my parents that, "Yeah, I don't like this whole Republican party, how they're pushing all of these, you know, this agenda. I don't like it."
THERAPIST: What would happen if you said that?
CLIENT: (pause) I don't know. I just wouldn't say that. You know, these are things, like, I could say with Jeremy and, like, you know, I mean, I've actually told my sister. I was like, "You know, listen. If they can balance the budget and, you know, eliminate debt, this is what I'm concerned with." And she agreed. And she's like, "Yeah, you know, that's a good point." And, like, she's like, "That's what Dad thinks too." [00:31:22]
But of course, like, on his Facebook profile, he has, like, Obama as the caveman, Obama this, Obama that. Like, he's the next Saddam Hussein. And she's like, "Well, this is—I mean, I can understand you don't agree with his policies, but let's not go overboard." Let's, you know, I just sort of take—I don't know. I mean, I kind of go along the lines of, like John Stewart, like, in terms of, like, he's funny, he's pretty, you know, points of, like, some errors on both sides and I guess, you know, I try to take each issue sort of individually. Like, with sort of healthcare reform, I think it's a good idea. But you know, that's not—well, it might be akin to Mitt Romney's policy before he was running for Republican. Anyway, it's frustrating and...
THERAPIST: You're frustrated to feel like what you feel or what you think isn't something that you can share openly because your ideas won't be critiqued—you'll be critiqued for having them. And it sounds like that's what you would expect to get back from your mom, especially maybe your dad. [00:32:39]
CLIENT: Yeah, I mean, definitely. Actually, my dad is very merciless when talking about politics. And like, you know, it's sort of like when I was like, oh, you know—I said something like, oh, that I wanted to dress like a hippy. And my mom gets very frustrated. She's like, "You know, Republicans can also dress Bohemian or, like, live the Bohemian lifestyle." And I was just like, "What? I didn't mean that politically." I was like why does everything have to be so charged (ph)? You know, why do I have to walk on eggshells? That's the one thing I don't understand. It's like everything, like, you step here, step there, crack crack crack crack. And it's like, it's frustrating, you know, because I mean, you know, it's one thing to be respectful, but it's another thing to avoid, you know, just saying, like, having discussions. [00:33:40]
THERAPIST: [It seems highly provoking] (ph) not to know what's going to happen when you step.
CLIENT: Yeah, I know.
THERAPIST: Or to know that something's going to happen but not know what it is. Well maybe that's part of what has you braced. There's always some sort of reaction and you could be stepping in a very dangerous territory.
CLIENT: Yeah and that's why, like, you know, being so far away from my family, I actually—it's kind of relieving in a sense, because I can monitor and control what goes to them and what goes out. And I see...
THERAPIST: You still have to careful, but it's a little easier from this distance.
CLIENT: Yeah. And I know Jeremy has problems. Like, I can see how tense it makes him to be around family and what I...
THERAPIST: Your family or his family?
CLIENT: His family, because, like, he says one thing to Ozzie (sp?), like, he told Ozzie (sp?) that he was thinking of moving in with me. This was back in, like, February, and they were thinking about checking out or—and, like, his brother mentioned Christina's cousin's apartment, which was going to be—they were going to—it was going to be available starting on September. And somehow, like, all of this whole news that we were moving in together and we were taking Ashley's place got around to the whole 30 members of the family over Passover. And I was just like (clears throat), you know, and just tell one thing to Jeremy's sister-in-law, Christina. And while we're OK now, in the same sense, like, she does gossip quite a bit. [00:35:16]
And so it's hard not—I mean, so I see how the land mines get set off or he's afraid of land mines getting set off, and I see how that makes him and I guess it's kind of like a reflection. I see that sort of, like, with my family too. Maybe that's why we understand each other. (laughter)
THERAPIST: Yeah, you have some appreciation for this (ph) life, to be careful and to worry about being judged.
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: I did want to take a minute to check in with hand washing and thoughts, see where that stuff was.
CLIENT: So that actually kind of took a tailspin a couple times. Well, the most recent time is when I had to hand in—I had to (laughter) do a urine sample and it was kind of awkward because I had to put it in our fridge. And it was there for 24 hours, taking (inaudible at 36:18), but, you know, I put it in a garbage bag and somehow just had to just sort of de-hemorize (ph) it. But then when I turned it in and it was kind of like—I had to carry it on the bus, which I thought was more funny. Jeremy was nice enough to drop me off right next to school, so I could avoid the traffic but I only had, like, a 20 minute bus ride, rather than, like, an hour.
And I dropped it off and I asked the lady, because I was like, I'm trying to stay in the present, because I just came with it and, like, it was a plastic version of a paper bag, kind of like the Whole Food bags that you get. And so I was like, "Oh, I have a urine specimen." And she's like, "Oh, well put it in the box." And I was like, OK, she's telling me to put it in the biohazard box but, you know, it's just sort of, like I said, samples or specimens. And so I was like, "This box?" And she's like, "Yes, that box, right outside the door."
So I put it in and then when I did, I was like, well, what do I do now with this bag, with the garbage bag that was around the sample. [00:37:24] And there was a trash can right inside the waiting room, kind of like that, and I put it in, like, the trash can, but it wasn't going in immediately because it was kind of big and bulky. So I kind of pushed it down and then I looked back at it and then I sort of, like, kind of freaked out that I...
THERAPIST: Yeah, what else did you touch.
CLIENT: Yeah, what else did I touch. And then I used hand sanitizer and then I washed my hands. And, like, I'm still trying to like...
THERAPIST: What happened to the anxiety when you did that?
CLIENT: Well there was a lot of anxiety and then, like, and that's when I started looking at doorknobs online (laughter), because Jeremy and I were thinking about getting new knobs for our cabinet. But that's when I, like, it's been hard to get it out of my head and, like, I've been washing my hands quite a bit. And then I remind myself I didn't touch anything. The trash can was empty, probably. I mean, it's first thing in the morning. It's in the waiting room, so, you know, there was—I don't know what trash cans are in the waiting room, what they're for, but—you know, I was just like, why did I set myself—like, I wasn't thinking, like, and I just—I don't know, I did it. [00:38:44] (laughter)
THERAPIST: It's OK not to be thinking. Most people, when they throw something in the trash, don't think about it. They throw it in the trash, they move on. They haven't thought about it. So that wasn't a mistake on your part. And you're stuck now and you need to find a way for you to get un-stuck.
CLIENT: Yes. And that was another thing when I was—another incident that happened, like, a week—I guess, two weeks ago is when I was changing supplies. Part of that supply—because I don't like to use the box and throw it out in the trash can just to avoid using the box, and some of it fell on the floor and I didn't want to pick it up—because it's a public restroom—off the floor. And then the lady in the stall next to me chewed me out for, like—she's like, "Can you pick that up? That's gross." And I was like, "Well, I'm kind of germophobic," and, you know. And then she's like, "Well, just use a paper towel." [00:39:49]
And then so I picked it up and then I just couldn't—I mean, it was my own garbage, but it was on the floor, next to a piece of toilet paper and I just—you know, and then I just started crying and because—I mean, I was, like, sobbing. And she's like, "Well, what's wrong?" And I was like, I feel embarrassed because I washed my hands, like, five times after. Even though I picked it up with a paper towel and it's a Psychics bathroom, not some, like, downtown bathroom even. You know, and I just, you know, I just was really upset that, A, I didn't use the box, B, I, you know—it was gross and I picked it up, and then I was worrying about it obsessively and I was just so upset about it, because, I mean...
THERAPIST: OK. Take a deep breath. Now let it go. It was gross, but not dangerous. It's OK that's those things were hard for you. There's a reason they're hard for you. [00:41:03]
CLIENT: Yeah, it's crazy how kind of like my stress going on in life kind of just reabsorbed into, like, yeah. It's kind of becoming more of an issue and it's something that I have to work on.
THERAPIST: Yeah, so we have to go back to focusing on that, because when you're able to focus on controlling that, it actually makes your stress go down. But when we forget to pay attention, when I forget to direct your (inaudible at 41:40) there, you end up thinking about all of the other things that's going on and it's not getting addressed. [And it's sort of being] (ph)—learning how to notice what's going on with you and not judging yourself for it. I'm seeing part of what was going on in the bathroom is you were feeling so ashamed, you were so embarrassed that this was a big deal for you. We don't need to judge you. It's a big deal for you. It is.
CLIENT: (laughter) Yeah, and I guess maybe that's the thing. (inaudible at 42:13), like, I guess recently I just feel ashamed very easily. Like, ashamed with (ph) my family and I guess ashamed with germs—I guess that's more of a bigger thing, but, you know, and it's tough because, like...
THERAPIST: But they add up together and it's hard to carry all that around.
CLIENT: Yeah. (pause) Yeah, I guess I have to stop being so hard on myself, and that's what Jeremy tells me. He's like, you know, "You're doing good. You're working hard," and, like, I don't feel that way.
THERAPIST: [Let's see if we can] (ph) get you let you go (inaudible at 42:55) so you can feel something different. Maybe (ph) feel some of the good stuff too.
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: Let me stop there for today. (inaudible at 43:04) next week. (inaudible at 43:05)
CLIENT: Actually, I'll be in Florida. And I don't know if I scheduled us for that week, but you should check that out.
THERAPIST: OK, so I did have you in my book for the 21st, but you're not going to be here. (pause) I'm losing pencils left and right today. OK, so take you off for the 21st. And then are you back for the 28th?
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: OK, so we'll do the 3:30 on the 28th. And do you want to go ahead and look at October as well?
CLIENT: Sure. So I have—I don't have anything for October.
THERAPIST: OK, so let's do the 5th. And you were (inaudible at 43:51) trying to shoot for three Fridays in a month?
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: So I can do the 5th. (pause) I'm away one week, I'm just trying to remember when it is. Oh, I leave on Friday the 2nd, so let's do the 5th, the 12th and the 26th, that way we're not missing two weeks in a row.
CLIENT: So that's it? The 12th and 26th?
THERAPIST: That works for me. That work for you?
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: And then, actually, I'm wrong. I'm here on the 2nd. I'm not here on the 9th. So let's meet not the 2nd as well of November.
CLIENT: OK, wait wait. Five, 12, 26.
THERAPIST: Yep. And then, for November, 2, 16 (pause) and then probably 30, because I'm guessing you're gone for Thanksgiving.
CLIENT: I'll probably be in the area because Jeremy and I are having Thanksgiving at his place.
THERAPIST: OK. Well let's leave—I think I am in the area, but I have no idea what's going on...
CLIENT: All right. (laughter)
THERAPIST: ...childcare wise. (laughter) So let's schedule to the 16th of November and then we'll check in with each other before then about the end of November.
CLIENT: So 2, 16, and 30, or...
THERAPIST: Let's 2 and 16 for now and let's not schedule beyond that. When we get closer to that, we can (ph) either the 23rd or the 30th, or...
CLIENT: Cross that bridge when we get (inaudible at 45:55). All right. OK.
END TRANSCRIPT
