Transcript of Audio File:
______________________________________________________________________________
BEGIN TRANSCRIPT:
THERAPIST: This is for you. [00:02:06]
CLIENT: Oh, it's not - it's for a little bit - a tiny bit. That's just because that's just because that's all I had. I'm sorry, and I'll - I'll clear it up as soon as, you know.
THERAPIST: That's okay. Did you do the banker's check?
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: Okay.
CLIENT: We don't have check.
THERAPIST: I see. So why don't you guys have checks?
CLIENT: I don't know. We've never gotten then. It's not normal.
THERAPIST: How do you pay your bills?
CLIENT: We pay our bills on line.
THERAPIST: I see.
CLIENT: And then - and we send out rent. I think that's - because it was like 400 right? Was that right or something like that?
THERAPIST: It was - it's very - I'll take a look. It's very close.
CLIENT: Okay.
THERAPIST: It's either 425 or 450.
CLIENT: Okay, great. Yeah, we pay our - we like there's a thing you can do and if we need checks we just have to fill it out like way earlier and just do it on line and get the address like. [00:03:00]
THERAPIST: Oh yeah.
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: It usually takes a few days.
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: I mean it only...
CLIENT: Yeah, yeah a few days; only a few days. But I'm never on - like unless its rent and I know, I'm just never on top of it. I like do it the day before. Oh, hot.
THERAPIST: Is it stretching? I realize that - I mean I'm not, not saying it's at all fault, I was just wondering. I realize that I did remind you like a bunch of times. Is it hard to - I mean is about paying bills in general?
CLIENT: Okay, sometimes I just don't have money, so that's the problem. But no, I don't know. I think - it's mostly if I don't have money. And, you know, I'm usually good about it. I don't know.
THERAPIST: Again, I'm not - I'm not commenting on this to be critical [00:04:03]
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: Like I'm more just, you know, wondering about it.
CLIENT: Oh, no. I mean I'm really - I'm the one who like pays all of our bills and takes care of it stuff. And it's usually - I mean with our like DishNetwork and the electric and everything it just comes right out of our, you know, it uses your card. For some reason that's like the easiness of that is just like I just think of things and when I think of them in the moment, it's easy for me to just go online and do it.
But I'm just - I have a hard time with like putting plans in action. Like for instance, you know, like I would know that I needed to come on Monday morning and bring a check, but the bank would be closed on Sundays.
And so Saturday I'd be thinking all day like go to the bank, like go to the bank, get the check; go to the bank and then Saturday it would just be done. And then Sundays are, you know, Sundays are - you know Sundays you just can't go to the bank. And so, I don't know.
THERAPIST: So why would you think about going to the bank all day and not go? [00:05:04]
CLIENT: Because I don't know. I would like get distracted or do something else or I don't know. We would usually just do something and then it wouldn't - I don't know, because I'm neglectful with my life. [Laughter]
I don't know. Yeah, I don't really have a good answer for that. (pause)
THERAPIST: And then I guess there's also thinking that money is just such an (inaudible at 00:05:40) for you.
CLIENT: Oh, yeah, yeah, got a lot. I've had a lot of money issues the last two days so it's especially very loaded these last two days. I'm feeling very frustrated by money. [00:06:02]
Just a couple - just like a work thing and things with Chris and it's all about money. Just get the tissue right now.
I set up this situation with my neighbors or the neighbors for the family I work with around the corner. They - I'm friends with their - I made friends with their babysitter; the girl who babysits their children.
The older daughter is a friend of and in the same preschool class with the older girl that I watch. And then they have two daughters that are the same age as the two girls that I watch and the older one is in the same class.
They live just around the corner and we'd see them all the time and eventually, you know, this relationship kind of developed. And so now their babysitter and I are friends and the girls are all friends and we would do play dates together. [00:07:02]
And my friend is leaving that position because she wants to pursue other things. And I had mentioned to them when I found out that I'd be - I knew that she was in a pinch trying to figure out a time between when my friend was leaving and then when camps were starting.
And I said, you know, I think you're in a pickle. Like maybe since I'm staying through June we could work something out. You know obviously I would have to clear it with Andrea, the woman I work for and we would have to make sure that it all worked out. But since you live right down the corner and the girls are all friends, it could be like a win-win for everybody.
And so I then found out she had hired another babysitter and she wasn't going to need me for June. But then she contacted me saying that she needs care for the next two weeks, not this week but the week after the week after, for just two mornings and one full day, and asked if that would be something that we could. [00:08:06]
And so I said, you know, I've got to talk to my employers and we can all work it out. And the parents all know each other just from whatever.
And so I brought it up to my employer and asked just how she felt about it and then what she thought and she, you know, said if you think that you could handle it, go for it. You know, we, you know, it's up to you.
And so then I brought it back up again with her later that same day and I said, you know, before I call Anna; the other mother back this evening, like I really want to make sure that like you'd be okay with this; like I'd still be at your house.
I'd still be taking care of all the chores that I needed to take care of and we'd still be - you know, I'd still be here and it would only be for, you know, 20 hours a week.
And she said oh - you know if you think you can do it then go for it. Like it's all - we're going to default to you. And I said all right. [00:09:00]
And I said, you know, it would just be great, because Chris and I are moving and we would really - we could use the extra money. And I made it very clear that it was about money for us.
And then I spoke to the other mother that evening and the next morning I went to work and I spoke to both of the parents (inaudible at 00:09:18) and I said, so you know I spoke to Anna and she's going to e-mail you this, this weekend. And, you know, as long as you guys are still on board with it and you're okay with it, like I'm going to move forward with her to make the plans.
And they okay, yeah that's great. Like cool. Like the girls will love that and I thought so too. The girls will love it.
And so this week I came to work on Monday and the dad said something about like so how are you going to work out payments with - like with the other family? And I said I'm just - I asked their babysitter, my friend, what she was getting paid and so I'm just going to ask them for that.
And he like kind of - and he said oh, like okay, and asked me like some question. And I felt like he's trying to ask me - I felt like he was asking that he - that they should all talk about a payment together. [00:10:12]
But he wasn't getting to it and the baby was distracting. And honestly, I didn't even want to go there. And so I was like all right. And so I just engaged with the baby and kind of - he left for the day.
And later that evening on Monday, Andrea the mom came home and said, "Did Todd talk to you about payment for when you're working with the other family"? I said, "Yeah, I just told him that, you know, I'm going to get $15 an hour and, you know, you don't have to claim it because I - they tax me for my - which is I think it was just great."
And I said, "You know if it's under $2,000 for a yearly job you don't have to claim it. And so it's all worked out and it's fine."
And she said, "Well no, that's not what I mean though. Normally in typical nanny shares the rate is lower for the families." [00:11:00]
And I was like - I was a little confused. And I was like yeah, you know, like okay. And so she was saying that - she was like, you know, so we would usually have a reduced rate since it's a nanny share.
And I was like, you know, I was a little confused and I just didn't really say anything. And she said, "Or you could do some free babysitting for us." And it's like well I'm not that big of an idiot that I don't realize that extra hours with the same; with no pay isn't the same as - like, I'm not a moron.
And I was like, you know, I didn't really know what to say to it. And so she said, "You know, why don't you think about it tonight and let me know tomorrow what you think."
And I just felt really frustrated because I addressed the issue three times with them and that wasn't addressed at all when that, when I asked them about the situation. [00:12:01]
And I just feel like I wouldn't have - I'm committed to this other family now. I mean this family is relying on me. And had I known that this was going to be the circumstance, I just wouldn't have agreed to it. And I just wouldn't have put myself - I have no leverage now. I have no power in this situation anymore.
THERAPIST: I'm a little bit lost. I don't even understand why your rate - I don't understand the whole problem.
CLIENT: In a typical - like so in a nanny - the reason families do nanny shares is because they want a nanny but nannies are really expensive. And so they would - and so multiple families; usually about two would get together and say we'll all get together and we'll hire one nanny and pay her $20 an hour, but we'll each only put in $10 an hour; each family.
THERAPIST: So you're getting a higher hourly rate?
CLIENT: So what will - yes.
THERAPIST: But they're paying less?
CLIENT: Yeah; well yeah, a higher hourly rate, but yeah. But the families will pay less. But that's in a typical nanny share that people are looking for for a current situation as opposed to a couple of weeks where I'm just bringing these other kids into their home. [00:13:21]
So I'm feeling frustrated because nothing for them is changing except for the fact that these two other little girls will be in their home.
I'm going to be - I'm going to their house before in the morning; 7:00 in the morning, get them ready; bring their food that they need over to the house where I work. I'm going to complete all the chores and the tasks that I normally do. These other girls will just be in the home as well.
And so I'm just - I'm pissed because I was - I'm pissed because I'm stuck now. It's like I'm stuck in this situation that I didn't anticipate. You know I anticipated making $700 out the next two - extra, out of the next two weeks and now it's looking like well that's certainly not the case.
And I just don't have any - like so what am I going to say like when she asks me like why don't you think about it and let me know what you feel comfortable with. It's like well I don't feel comfortable with any of it. I feel comfortable with what we agreed on beforehand which was - I mean money just - like that wasn't brought up to me. And now...
THERAPIST: Can I just - I'm not really lost with the numbers. You say you make $15 now. If they each contribute $10 then you'll make $20 an hour.
CLIENT: Well right now I make $17 an hour for the family I work for and then I didn't think that rate would change. I thought I would still be getting paid $17 an hour for my 50 hour work week.
And then I thought I would take this other family on and they would pay me the $15 an hour for the 20 hours that I was watching their girls. So I would be getting the $17 an hour for my one family and then the $15 an hour on top of that. [00:15:09]
THERAPIST: And you'd be watching them - you'd be watching working 50 hours and then another 20 over here?
CLIENT: No. I'd be working the - overlapping. So I would on Mondays be going to the call them Family B, the family that I don't normally watch. I'd be going to Family B's house and watching their daughter from 7:00 to 1:00, but at 8:00 a.m. I'd be going to Family A's house and staying with them from 8:00 to 6:00 like I normally do, with the other girls as well. So the hours are overlapping.
THERAPIST: Mm-hmm.
CLIENT: And so - but now Family A would like to renegotiate and pay me I don't know what; they haven't told me. But pay me less money while from like supposedly - from 8:00 to 1:00 while the other girl is with us, they want to pay me less money for the time that the other girls are with us, that Family B is with Family A. They'd like to reduce my rate for that time. [00:16:20]
Does that make sense?
THERAPIST: Yeah. I mean I honestly, I don't see why you expected to get paid double.
CLIENT: I mean I can see from their perspective why it makes sense.
THERAPIST: You particularly want to get paid per kid, not paid for the time?
CLIENT: I want to get paid per family.
THERAPIST: Rather than getting paid for your time?
CLIENT: Right. But I'm frustrated because it wasn't talked about beforehand. And so now - I just wouldn't have agreed to this other family. I mean like I signed up for one scenario and when we talked about it, it wasn't... [00:17:04]
THERAPIST: Well I'm not trying to give you a hard time. I'm really trying to understand because if it's the norm that people share to save money.
CLIENT: But this wasn't that...
THERAPIST: Yu, you just said that the - yeah, I guess I'm not exactly - I'm not sure I understand why you thought that that was going to happen. But I understand you didn't talk about it but I'm not sure why you assumed that they would just pay additional.
CLIENT: That my family that I work for?
THERAPIST: Yeah, I'm not sure why you - why you thought that if you watched them altogether that they would just be paying additional - they would just pay for two nannies all to you.
(pause)
CLIENT: I don't - I just - that's just - I don't know. That's just what I - the other family was paying $15 an hour. I don't know that's just what I thought. [00:18:00]
(pause)
CLIENT: I don't know. It's, it's not - like they're not - nobody approached it to me as a money saving. Like that's what - I wasn't approached - I don't know. Now I feel like an asshole.
THERAPIST: Why? I, I just, I honestly didn't understand where you're coming from and why you feel like an asshole.
CLIENT: Well because apparently it's so obvious to everybody else, but...
THERAPIST: I wouldn't say it's so obvious. I was more trying to understand your thinking.
CLIENT: Oh.
THERAPIST: The only reason I say that is - and maybe it's because of what I do. I think about getting paid for my time more than I think about getting paid if I see a couple of people and supervision (inaudible at 00:18:48) do group therapy.
I see a couple of people (inaudible at 00:18:50) at once. They pay - each pay me less than if I saw them individually because I'm getting paid for my time, I'm not getting paid for using the (inaudible at 00:18:57).
CLIENT: No, I understand that but I don't know. [00:19:07]
THERAPIST: Well, so did you, did you just think it was automatic that this is how they would think about it too. And you're not raising it and you just think it was sort of obvious that they would just pay you on the top of it and that's how it was?
CLIENT: I just thought that because I just - like I just make $17 an hour and so I just like I just didn't think about like, I don't know.
I guess if they had - I guess it would have made more sense to me if they had approached it with the other family and I don't know. Because they were e-mailing and I said well, you know, why don't the two of you get in contact because the, the other mother from the other family e-mailed. I said why don't the two of you talk to make sure that you both feel comfortable and what - everything that happens. [00:20:01]
So it would have made more sense if the two of them had come together and said like so we're agreeing that - I don't know it just seemed weird to me that all of a sudden - I don't know.
(pause)
I get the concept of being paid for your time. I'm not like an idiot. I just...
THERAPIST: Where's the "it's you're an idiot" coming from?
(pause) [00:21:00]
CLIENT: Oh.
THERAPIST: What is making you so sad right now? What is upsetting you?
CLIENT: I'm just frustrated and I have - I just wouldn't have done this. I'm committed to this other family and I just wouldn't have signed up for, for - I mean it's going to be a huge pain in the ass for me. And I just wouldn't have signed up for all of that had I known the circumstances.
THERAPIST: Well it seems like it's possible that you'll make than the $17; just not double.
CLIENT: No, I definitely will. But if I'm going to walk away with an extra hundred dollars, it's just not worth it for me. And had I known that beforehand, I wouldn't have agreed.
But I have no, I have no; I'm committed. This is it. This is what's happening and so it just doesn't matter. Whatever they decide I mean, what are they going to do; quit? [00:22:07]
THERAPIST: Well that's that thing. I mean it seems like that's the other piece; you feel that they have all the power. You can be the one to turn down the second family on a dime, saying this isn't what I signed up for.
CLIENT: The second family isn't the problem. They're not - they're paying me what I asked for, or not what I asked for. They offered - I said, you know, we talked about payment and they said, "We pay Anna this much and that's what we'll pay you for this time." And I said, "Great."
THERAPIST: I see. So it's the first family that wants a discount?
CLIENT: Yes, the family that I work 50 hours a week for. So they had like a reduced rate for the 20 hours that the other girls will be; not even 20 hours but for the time that the other girls will be with us they would like to reduce their rate.
THERAPIST: To; do you know what they want to?
CLIENT: They're going to tell me today.
THERAPIST: But again, like if you make - if you thought you'd make an extra $15 and instead you're only making an extra $10, that's still like not bad. Yeah, not bad. [00:23:10]
CLIENT: No, I know.
THERAPIST: So there's something. Since it's not like oh, well maybe I'll make a little less but I'll make more. I mean there's something really upsetting you.
CLIENT: No, that's just it. Like I just - I feel frustrated and I feel like I just - I don't like things coming out of nowhere. It's like well just tell me that beforehand so that I don't, I don't anticipate this one scenario and then all of a sudden it's this other scenario when, you know - I mean I just, I could leave this other family hanging but I mean I'm just - like that's not really an okay thing to do. [00:24:02]
So I'm just frustrated because I felt like from my end I, I don't know. I guess I should have brought up money and I didn't. I just didn't think that that would - I don't know why I didn't think that would change. Oh well.
(pause)
THERAPIST: Well, it's still upsetting you. I mean there's something to all this.
CLIENT: Yeah, it's just going to upset me. [00:25:03]
THERAPIST: Yeah. Well I want to talk to you about it.
CLIENT: I mean like honestly I thought I was - like you think you're going to get this like - honestly, I just thought I kind of like hit the lottery for two weeks. I thought like oh my god, like that's so exciting.
We can - like there's so much we could and need to do with that money. Like I have - I could pay off my credit card because I just had to buy these stupid glasses and go to the doctor.
And like I could - you know so I just think of all these things and I think like okay, I'm going to take - at the end of this week I'm going to take home this much money. And then I think of the - and then I'm just not. And so yeah, I'm frustrated.
And I just feel like for my family, the one that I work for usually, like it just felt kind of taken advantage of in the sense that nothing is changing for them; for their situation. [00:26:21]
I'm still doing the same work for them. I just wish that I had known beforehand. And I just don't do well with things just being; I don't know, thrown at me when I'm already - I just don't like feeling like I'm stuck in a situation.
I just feel like I'm stuck in the situation and I don't want to do it anymore. But I'm just not going to tell this family like that I'm - that in a week they're just out of luck.
THERAPIST: But in some ways that's cutting off your nose to spite your face because you're still going to make some more money. [00:27:01]
CLIENT: No, I obviously understand that. (pause)
I don't know that I'm going to make any more, I mean.
THERAPIST: Well that's the other piece. I mean somehow you feel like your negotiating power is completely out the window.
CLIENT: Well it is. What am I going to do?
THERAPIST: Well if they tell you they want X discount, you can say well I don't really feel comfortable with this but I'll do it for this X discount.
(pause)
CLIENT: I don't know. I just seems like a - it just leaves a bad taste in my mouth. I don't know why, I don't know why.
THERAPIST: Yeah, there's something - I mean there's something, I mean certainly there's a piece - a feeling of taken advantage of. It seems like that's a piece of it.
CLIENT: Yeah, but I don't know. I guess I'm overreacting, I don't know. [00:28:01]
THERAPIST: Yeah. Is it making you feel uncomfortable that I'm taking you off with you like this?
CLIENT: No, it's just making me feel like that their point is completely valid and that I have no - like what I'm saying is crazy. Like what I'm saying is like totally like has no standing and it's not valid.
THERAPIST: Well that's - yeah, I mean that's a big - I'm not at all saying that your point is crazy, I'm saying that there's a couple of ways to look at it. But in your way it sounds like either one person is right or the other person is right.
I can see the way you're looking at it too. I can also see the way they're looking at it.
CLIENT: Oh, I can see the way that they're looking at it. I can totally see the way that they're looking at it. I think that from their point of view I wish it had been addressed the three times I talked to them about it before.
THERAPIST: Well I guess that's what I'm bringing up with you because I know it's not quite nanny sharing setting it up that way. [00:29:07]
CLIENT: Mm-hmm.
THERAPIST: But if you had - did you have any questions about it or just did it seem obvious to you?
CLIENT: Questions about what?
THERAPIST: Did you have - did you - was it just very obvious that you'd get paid double? Like did you think it...
CLIENT: Yeah, I just thought that I - I mean I just didn't - I've never done a nanny share. Like I've never - I've baby sat for multiple families at a time, but those families have always paid me separately.
And I've just never done - I've never done a nanny share. I've never nanny'd for two families. If I'm babysitting for a family and then their friends need a babysitter too, both of those families pay me.
And so Family A, they've done a nanny share. They did a nanny share for a year. And so that's their perspective and I understand that. And I know that it's different than mine. But, you know, as the one being paid and the one who's - then that should have been addressed obviously. [00:30:05]
Hindsight being - you know it's like in hindsight yes, I obviously wish that I would have brought it up during those conversations but I just didn't. And yes, I'm mad at myself. I just didn't, I don't know. I don't know, I didn't think about it.
THERAPIST: Well it sounds like you were really hoping to get paid double. I mean you described it as kind of winning the lottery.
CLIENT: Absolutely. I mean we really need money. I just - I feel like a money hungry crazy person. But like I'm the only one that works and so we don't have a lot of money.
THERAPIST: All right, there's a way in which you feel really, really desperate, and in that sense you feel powerless.
(pause)
I mean families would be - I know you really need the money so maybe this is not entirely true, but the families not having someone to watch their kid would be far more screwed than you would. [00:31:10]
Although I appreciate that you would feel screwed too, or you would be because you need the money.
CLIENT: No, I'm just not going to do that. Like I wouldn't...
THERAPIST: Right, right. But I'm just talking. I know you're not. But I'm talking just in terms of who has the power. You feel like you have all the power. They have all the power and you have nothing that you can give.
It's like they really need you though. It's like you need them and they don't need you. They really need you.
(pause)
CLIENT: It just doesn't - I mean... [00:32:11]
THERAPIST: It just doesn't?
CLIENT: It doesn't - I'm just frustrated. It's, it's, going have - it's going to be what it is.
(pause)
THERAPIST: And I mean one piece of it is you don't feel you can talk to them about it.
CLIENT: Well they're weird. They're weird. They don't talk normally. Like they just - like they'll say - they'll like start to talk about something and then they'll like get really uncomfortable. And really I just I don't know. [00:33:14]
Like when the dad brought up - he manages people for a living; I don't know how, but he like he brought it up to me and I felt like I knew where he was going with it, and just stopped midway through.
And I'm like - you know it's like so I'm not about to start bringing it up again. Like I feel like you want to pay me less. Like, I'm not about to start that conversation.
And so he just stopped the conversation midway through and put on his helmet and biked away to work. And then later that evening the mom came home and brought it up again. And then like just stood there awkwardly - I don't know, I can't describe. [00:34:05]
Anyway, it's just how it's approached. It's all like this false like whatever you feel comfortable with and like whatever. It's like what does that mean, whatever I feel comfortable with? Like I'm not - I don't know what that...
THERAPIST: So you didn't say that you actually just expected to get paid the same from them?
CLIENT: No, I told her that.
THERAPIST: And that, and that's when she...
CLIENT: And she said, "Well in a typical nanny share." And I said, "Yeah I know, but this isn't really a nanny share this - I guess it is; I guess it's a nanny share." But it wasn't. It's just not really because I mean it is.
I guess all these terms are so like loosely defined that who the hell knows what anything is any more.
But like it's not these two families coming together for the purpose of saving money to have this, you know, have - it was, it was just a different circumstance. And so I just - I don't know. [00:35:16]
It's not the end of the world. At the end of the day it's just a few hundred dollars.
THERAPIST: Again, I'm not sure like it seems like you've lost all the extra money.
CLIENT: No, I know I'm just saying it's like it's just a few - like I'm sure I'm going to make a couple of hundred dollars and that's great. When I thought I was going to be making more I was more excited, but I'm not and so that's life.
THERAPIST: You don't feel - you don't feel - you don't sound resolved with it.
CLIENT: I'm just not going to be. [00:36:00]
THERAPIST: Yeah, well this is - I don't think it has anything to do with the situation. This is clearly triggering things for you.
CLIENT: That I've been cheated out of money? I mean like yeah, that's not a new thing. I just...
THERAPIST: Well you're cheated out of money that you feel you're dealing with people who are weird, crazy, or awkward. That you feel helpless, you feel desperate, you feel dependent on people who don't care about you; all of that.
CLIENT: Chris and I were fighting about money all (inaudible at 00:36:40), so that was really fun, adding to the fun.
(pause)
THERAPIST: What were you fighting about?
CLIENT: Just about money. And we had sat down last week and budgeted out the rest of our expenses through the end of this year and then expenses through the summer and then expenses; a rough estimate of like a budget for next year and we spent a lot of time doing it.
And at the end of our talk about expenses for this year and the end of this year and then through the summer, we had talked about his parents as a graduation gift to him, are buying our plane tickets to California for after Chris takes the bar.
They're going to give us like whatever a round - because they're not going to come for his graduation. So they said for your gift we'll get you whatever plane tickets for us would have been and then whatever a hotel would have been which is an extremely generous gift.
THERAPIST: Why aren't they coming to his graduation? [00:38:03]
CLIENT: Because they don't care about things like that.
THERAPIST: What?
CLIENT: They don't care about graduations.
THERAPIST: Their kids?
CLIENT: They don't care about graduation. No trust me, I don't get it either. My parents are coming.
But they don't like graduations. Trust me, I don't know. They say that and then the other breath they go on and on about how his brother who has a lot of mental instability and gets a lot of attention is going to be speaking at graduation.
So in one breath they say to Chris like we really hate graduations. Do you mind if we don't come?
And then the next breath they're talking about how great it is that Greg, Chris's younger brother, has been nominated to speak at his graduation the week before; his undergrad graduation.
Trust me, I don't understand it and I think it's kind of mean. But Chris says he doesn't care and it doesn't bother him so, I don't know. I told him it bothered me, but I don't want to keep picking at the issue. [00:39:06]
So, they're paying for that. And I have a week off with my brother who will be at camp and that's the week after Chris takes the bar. So we had discussed in the budget when we fly out to California maybe like borrowing one of his parent's car and taking a trip down the coast.
When we lived in California we used to go to like the coast and take little weekend trip. And we talked about like just taking like a drive down the coast for a few days and then driving back up.
And a few days ago he said, "You know, like I don't think that we're going to be able to do the road trip." And I said, "Why not?" And he said, "Well there's a couple of expenses we didn't take into account." And I was like I know what expenses you're talking about.
His friend; he has this big group of guy friends and last year they rented a cabin for our friend's bachelor party. And then the summer before they rented a cabin for Chris's bachelor party. [00:40:06]
And it's like these 20 guys all get together and have this great time. You know it's all these guys he grew up with. And they go and they have this man weekend.
He was like well, you know, like we didn't account like the guys' trip and we didn't account - and I was like that, that's it. That's where it is. You would rather go on this guy's trip than like that's your - we can't go on this trip. That's all I hear is that we can't go on this trip because you want to go on this guy's trip.
And like - and, you know, that really hurt. I don't generally like to bring - you know, it's like I know it's not his fault, but like for the last three years he's gotten a month off for, you know, December or, you know, after - in the winter. And he gets a month off in the summer usually. [00:41:02]
And like he goes to California for weeks at a time and does all these things. And like I don't say it but I'd love to be doing that. I'd love that. And I know that it's his school and he can't control it which is why I don't say it, but it makes me super jealous.
And so when we do plan these little vacations I get really excited. And then but instead it's like, you know, so I'll work the rest of this year and I'll work all summer and save up so that he can go on his man trip but I - we can't go on like on this trip together; the two of us?
And obviously I don't say that, but it's like because I don't want - you know it's like what am I going to think that in a couple of years when he's the only one working it's like it's my money, blah, blah, blah. And I don't think like my money but... [00:42:02]
THERAPIST: Well you feel less important somehow.
CLIENT: Yeah. And he was saying like that's - it's not the - he was like I won't go on the trip with the guys; I won't go on the trip with the guys. It's like, but that's what you said. It's too late. You already said - like that was your priority in your head when you were thinking about it.
You were thinking like well but, like this - to get this, like I could wipe out this. And that was what your mentality was. That's what you were thinking.
So now, even if you don't go on that trip I know when we go on our trip together that that's what you really wanted to do.
He's like you know, I just - I only see those guys like a couple of times a year or like a couple of days out of the year. I live with you. I spend every day with you. Well like that hurts my feelings. I don't know.
It's just always this money talk. It's all about - and so he's - and he was like oh. And so yeah, I want to think like well we - I don't know. [00:43:05].
CLIENT: So if I think like well I found this other way and we could make like, you know, $1,000 extra dollars like yeah I get - I think like maybe that I could solve that problem. Or maybe I could like fix, I don't know.
I just thought that I could, I just thought those - that watching this extra family would solve some of our problems but it - and it might or whatever. It will pay my cell phone bill; great.
We probably have to stop; huh?
THERAPIST: We have another minute or so. Well you feel there's something like sort of I don't know, degrading is the right word, but you feel kind of desperate and maybe even degraded like everyone else has the power to give you something or withhold something that you desperately need. [00:44:14]
CLIENT: Well everybody - I mean like I'm not going to beg Chris to go on - you know it's like I'm not going to beg Chris to - I'm not going to beg him to be his priority. I don't - you know if his priority would be to go on this trip with his friends then that's great. I don't want to beg you to want to come with me.
No matter how many times like now he says of course, like what, you don't think I want to do that with you? No, I don't know.
THERAPIST: You don't trust him in this way?
CLIENT: Well what would anybody else think? Like when you say - it's like no, I don't trust that.
When you say I don't think we can go on my - on our road trip together because we haven't thought about some expenses and when I say what expenses do you mean and you say the guy's trip, it's like what you're saying is we can't go on this trip because I want to go on this trip. [00:45:20]
And so no, no matter how many times you say after that of course I want to go with you no; I don't believe you.
THERAPIST: Well it seems like you also don't believe that it's not about him not wanting to spend time with you but it's that he doesn't spend much time with these other people and that he doesn't prefer then over you but that he would like to see them sometimes.
That also doesn't seem like an argument that flies with you.
CLIENT: That's finally - like I get that. I understand that and I understand wanting to be with your friends and hang out with your friends but like yeah, as his wife, it seems like I don't know. [00:46:05]
There will be plenty of other guy's trips. Like I know that there will be. Like I don't think the chance for us to just take a week off and just hang out together and take a road trip, it's really going to happen again. And so...
THERAPIST: And you feel really disappointed?
CLIENT: Yeah, I'm pissed.
THERAPIST: "M" we are going to - we are going to need to stop.
CLIENT: Okay.
THERAPIST: I'm also realizing the session to (inaudible at 00:46:45); they are going to Georgia (inaudible at 00:46:46), right?
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: I do wish you luck with that.
CLIENT: Oh, thanks I do too.
THERAPIST: And so I'll see you next week at this time and I did get your e-mail about next Friday and that's fine. [00:47:00]
CLIENT: Okay, great. Okay, thank you so much.
THERAPIST: Okay, bye-bye.
END TRANSCRIPT
