Transcript of Audio File:
______________________________________________________________________________
BEGIN TRANSCRIPT:
THERAPIST: Can you run over, cause I'm running so late?
CLIENT: Yeah. That's fine.
THERAPIST: Sorry, my shoelaces are going crazy.
CLIENT: So, on Friday one of the other things I've thinking about was, I had run into one of the senior managers at work (inaudible at 00:00:42) Christy.
THERAPIST: Yep, she's above Will?
CLIENT: Yeah, she's above Will. Her job is supposed to be like encouraging use of technology and instructions and things.
THERAPIST: Is she the one you had thought about trying to get a meeting with who cancelled a bunch of times?
[00:01:06]
CLIENT: Yeah. And I was on the committee with her and she's very supportive of me, like being vocal and asking questions or having suggestions, which was nice cause I was a little — everyone else in the committee was at a much more senior level than I am. So I was a little nervous. But it's really, what's very awkward is I never (pause), I have a hard time sometimes knowing like — so there are two projects that she's championing that I really disliked. So one was TeamWork. She had just said it has to go in, it's the best thing ever, cause someone had shown it to her. And it's been a nightmare. And so I was in a departmental meeting and she stopped by and she's asking everyone what they had worked on and, you know, is anything awesome going on. And I was just like, I don't want to answer this question, I don't want to answer (laughter).
[00:02:16]
And so she came to me, and I was like "oh, you know" vague and then she said "what about TeamWork (ph)? Is that going well?" And I pretty much just froze up and was like "uh, okay (inaudible at 00:02:33)" And she seemed confused sort of how I wasn't really talking and was just like "yeah" and stuff. Cause normally when I see her, I just talk to her in a normal fashion. And also when she asked me about TeamWork (ph), Karl was sort of sitting and just giving me this look like "yes...hmmmm."
[00:03:12]
So she also is part of the group that was like "mediascape tables." Awesome. And she also requested installing these sliding whiteboards that don't slide very well. So it's a good idea in theory. In theory it should be one continuous track that kind of goes around and you can slide whiteboards the length of a wall.
THERAPIST: You mean, like essentially you can slide a whiteboard to be positioned in any sort of position along the wall?
CLIENT: Yeah, and so you can grab another if you need more, you know. And I've used them, and while they're cool, the problem is the track doesn't align. So you can't slide the whiteboard the length of the wall cause the track comes in parts and it stops at the part. The whiteboard itself is super heavy, so I'm not able to lift it and I can lift a lot of things.
[00:04:27]
And trying to move them, every time I have tried it, someone's result is like pinched fingers or almost dropping it. You have to tilt it off, lift it, move it over, and tilt it back in, make sure it's perfectly snapped into the track. Yeah, it's a pain, and I'm just really waiting for this to fall on someone's foot because it's going to break a toe cause they're really heavy.
THERAPIST: It doesn't seem like it should be that difficult.
CLIENT: No.
THERAPIST: I guess that it is.
CLIENT: Yeah, it's weird. It's also one of those things where Christy just said she wanted them and so she (inaudible at 00:05:21) and when I brought up this problem to other people, they're like "oh, yeah, we should fix that," but no one has fixed it. And since the head of operations who you go to seems to have a personal dislike for me, I haven't forwarded that request.
[00:05:39]
So it's been two weeks trying to get a trash can in that room, and I give up. So all of that. And I ran into Christy on Friday in the hall, it was you know like waved your hand hello, and then she stopped me and asked what I was doing and then said "you know, I'm just so excited about the mediascape room, is it going well?" And again I had this moment of feeling completely frozen, you know, like "ahhhhh." So I told her that we were having a really hard time, we couldn't find any resources to help us with instruction, and you know, we're working on it but no one else does it for instruction purposes. And she was a little surprised, "oh, you know that's the great awesome challenge of your group is to, you know, learn ways to use it" et cetera (pause). It was super frustrating they didn't like, she was going somewhere, right, like -
[6:59.0]
THERAPIST: You mean, like she was physically on her way somewhere.
CLIENT: Yeah, she was on her way somewhere and stopped to talk to me. So, you know, we had this intense conversation about this in the middle of like one of the major hallways that echoes. But it also (inaudible at 00:07:22) talk about the importance of phrasing things positively, et cetera, I'm like "okay". But I think it's a problem. Like an instruction room is really needed. I really don't think we need a room for instruction.
[00:07:45]
And so renovating a room and saying "figure out how to teach in here" is really difficult, which I also think is kind of unfair because that's not, you know, it's not like they're "oh, most people use this for teaching, figure out how you want to do it." It's like, "no one does this, have fun, it's new technology." It's super frustrating. I also feel like, I don't think it like, yes, I understand conceptually we're like "oh, it's the sandbox theory of learning new technology where you just play with it." And I'm like yeah, okay, that's often how I learned how to use things. But you can't - it's hard to just play with something, like you don't have a class to play with, you don't have -
[00:09:01]
THERAPIST: Like, you mean, it's one thing to play with a new word processor or iPad or something like that which is meant to be used for one person to do stuff. And another thing to like play with a classroom for teaching a group of people something?
CLIENT: Well, that and it's not like "here's one way to do it, you should play and find other ways." Like we still don't even, like the way that it's currently being used (inaudible at 00:09:42) would be like, "okay, I think I can basically ignore all the technology and use it in a way where it's kind of similar to what we had before," which I totally understand (laughter) because you know, no one would be able to figure out like, no one else has another way to do it. So we're all like, "mmmmm."
[00:10:08]
And I tried to orient someone on the room on Friday, and it was just really hard because it was like well, I barely know how this room works, almost no one has taught it in, you can't really fix anything. Like, it's really hard to tell if the problem is something you're doing or the thing is broken, and I have no idea what the fixes are yet. I don't even know what the common problems are yet (pause). And so, I kind of wanted to talk to her about that, but she's so enthused about it, that I feel like it would be hard for her to hear a critique when she thinks it's the best thing ever.
[00:11:10]
And I'm not quite sure why she thinks it's the best thing ever. That's was the other thing that's unclear to me, is I don't, like I'm not sure what about the room she likes. You know, like she's never really articulated something she likes about it other than "new," "technology." I mean, like do you like the tables? Do you like that they're doing group work — like why did you spend all this money on it? What do you like about it? And I haven't been able to get anyone in that group who approved the purchase to articulate what they think is good about it, other than that it has technology (pause).
[00:12:13]
I just sort of, I guess it's partially like me running into someone in the hallway when I'm at work and going "hey, how are you doing?" and you're thinking "I feel kind of crappy" but the appropriate response is "I'm fine." And that's how I feel. Like I know what I'm supposed to say. And I'm pretty sure if I asked Chet or Harry in IT or Karl, that they would all say "you should stay positive and talk about how it's great." Yes, but I really don't have anything, I don't really have a lot of positives to say. I can't even really fake something awesome (pause). And it would be a lot easier if she wasn't friendly and outgoing.
[00:13:26]
THERAPIST: Right. Well, and it also sucks because you're really frustrated with the whole situation in that room. Like the fact that you didn't have any say, the decision was all kind of foisted on you by people who hadn't listened very carefully, the way they would actually use stuff like that. And it wasn't just that the people who brought this up made what seemed to you like a reasonable decision even if it weren't one you would have made, or they were just pretty dumb about how they went about it.
[00:14:20]
CLIENT: Yeah, I mean, they did a series of focus groups which got all this information about what patrons wanted in that room, and what they thought doesn't really mean they asked for, with the exception that they put some soft seating in. (inaudible at 00:14:37) Karl was like, "okay, (inaudible at 00:14:47) needs mediascape tables." The people who were in the focus group were like "wait, the patrons asked for all these things. Like one thing they all wanted was movable tables and the mediascape tables are like bolted to the floor, basically.
[00:15:12]
And so they wanted movable tables, they wanted a warm atmosphere, and there are a bunch of other things. And they wanted the room to feel less crowded. It's a small room and previously all the computers were jammed in. And I'm like "well, I don't think that really big tables with big monitors are warm and inviting or make the room less crowded." And all these people brought various librarians who were like well, this, that and the other thing, and Karl was just like "nope, we're buying these, but feel free to give more input. But we're buying them." (pause) Which, I mean, so many librarians were pissed because they had put a lot of time into doing the focus groups and, you know —
[00:16:28]
THERAPIST: Right. And the results were completely ignored.
CLIENT: Yeah, for reasons that are, I think, unclear to everyone (pause). And I don't know, I'm like, I really want to get laid off, which I told Chet.
THERAPIST: Oh really?
CLIENT: (Laughter) Yeah. Last week, on Tuesday, I was talking to him about how I'm feeling really frustrated with — there's a bunch of projects he wants me to work on that are long-term projects. And I just don't want to. I have no interest in starting something that wouldn't get finished until August, because I don't know if I'm going to be here. Actually, I would really rather not. And it's really frustrating for me because they'll ask me to work on things that are going to be kind of drawn-out.
[00:17:41]
And I was also talking about how I was really stressed, and they made things that are minor and usually that I just don't care about, like even the students doing training, which is really hard to deal with. Like normally I'm like "ugh, I have to train students." And then an hour or two later, I'm like "all right, content done." But lately I'm like, I don't want to train them. I don't want to talk to them on the phone. I don't want to just do any of this. I get really nervous about it and stressed and then put it off, put it off, put it off. So he thanked me for telling him that, and then he asked and I said yeah and I said something basically like that and that I would really prefer — I was talking about how stressed I was at work, and I said "I'd prefer to be laid off," and he was pretty surprised, which I don't know why.
[00:18:47]
And then he said "well, I don't know if I can suggest you get laid off because if that happens, I may not be able to have anyone in this position for two years." And I was like, I don't give a fuck (laughter). You know, I really don't care. Also, you just rewrite a job description, it's not rocket science. I mean —
THERAPIST: That's how it works.
CLIENT: Yeah. Like you can hire my exact job, but my exact job won't exist. Like no one's exact job will exist.
THERAPIST: Right. [They ditch you] (ph).
CLIENT: Yeah. Or you just hire someone and unofficially have them doing more (inaudible at 00:19:33). So, yeah, I'm also thinking like well, if I want to be gone, is there any — should I bother talking to her because ideally I don't want to deal with any of this again except how it's still several months away.
[00:19:59]
THERAPIST: Sorry, which her?
CLIENT: Christy. If I want to talk to her, I just really don't want to talk to her about Will. My concern about that is she thinks he walks on water, and that's going to be really awkward. I don't know if she'll be sympathetic at all. I think if it were anybody else, she probably would be.
THERAPIST: But she really wouldn't take seriously any criticism you had?
[00:20:45]
CLIENT: She hasn't in the past. Pretty much every time someone has — Will wanted something and also said like "that doesn't really makes sense" for this, that and the other reason. She overrides him and told him to do it, which is how he's gotten so much money for so much equipment. The IT will say "it's not necessary," blah blah blah, and she's like "no, I'm getting it" over and over. And she kind of rearranged money from one part of her budget to give him more money for technology, so she has a lot invested in him.
[00:21:47]
I guess what I really want is a sympathetic — someone above me who is sympathetic to just being, to work being a difficult situation, to like my various travails with Will, and to — I don't know if I want — I would obviously love for them to listen to my suggestions, but I would also really love to know what they were think — what was their rationale?
THERAPIST: I see. Like why did they arrange for all these focus groups and then ignore them, for one.
[00:22:36]
CLIENT: Yeah. Or just like, "why did you pick these? There must have been — someone had to have shown them to you and someone then talked them up, like how did that happen?" I guess, in part, I feel like if I knew why they thought they were awesome, it would be possible to craft constructive criticism about why they're not awesome, or why something else would be better. Because right now, it's just so vague. It's like "it's a great use of technology" and I'm like "okay, I don't know how to use it." "But that's just part of the awesomeness." Not very specific (pause). But again, if I —
[00:23:48]
THERAPIST: Well, it doesn't make a damn bit of sense to you. Like, I'm under the impression you've really come up with any reasonable rationale for many decisions, this one made by the people above you.
CLIENT: Yeah, this is just, I think, the biggest because it's the whole room.
THERAPIST: But it's among other things, like other things that have made you feel this way, it's quite alienating.
[00:24:37]
CLIENT: Yeah. And one of my friends made a comment that it feels like management wants me to be their robotic arms and just implement things and not have an opinion on it. And they could probably find someone cheaper if they really want that. And also, I don't want to do that (pause). Yeah, the question is sort of why am I there and why was I hired and why are they asking — saying "we value your feedback," when actually they have no interest in it.
[00:25:44]
For a lot of the time working at Cambridge, they've just been "we don't care, we're just doing things." And you're like "okay" (laughter), you know, and while it would be stressful sometimes, it's like if I have no involvement in anything to do with that, and it felt very easy to just be "it sucks." Or like one of the faculty assistants (inaudible at 00:26:15) like "sorry, the head of the department decided I have to do this other stupid thing, take it up with them." But, I don't know, now this sort of really fake veneer of asking for feedback or soliciting feedback. And I guess having some experiences where telling people things actually went somewhere (pause).
[00:26:55]
Like it's no one ever solicited my feedback ever, and that — I don't know. I guess I feel like this is a lot of the things, it's something that I would be good at or could do well. You know, like I want to help. I want to do a good job. I want to help my workplace. And I'm being prevented from doing it, and I don't really know where to go from there. Because at this point, like Christy is one, two, I think she's three levels of management above me. So that also feels, yeah, like wow, is it really necessary to go three levels of management up with a complaint? I don't know.
[00:28:32]
But then again, like (pause). I don't know, I feel like I shouldn't — it makes me feel like well maybe my problems aren't important enough for her to spend time on them or want to spend time on them. I'm sort of worried that she will just be like "I don't care, this is too petty, this is just too small, I have bigger fish to fry." (pause)
[00:30:26]
THERAPIST: I've never really heard you talk about a productive conversation with anybody on the library staff, with the exception a few years ago of some of the outcome of the meeting with HR and Will which never ultimately went anywhere, but which was kind of positive at the time. Like they got some concessions from him which he had never followed through with at all, but aside from that, I don't think I've ever heard of you being listened to.
[00:31:15]
CLIENT: So, I guess part of it is the (inaudible at 00:31:19) with Christy was for this new instruction space. And so, like we talked about a variety of things, we voted on various designs, et cetera. And, I don't know, on that committee I felt like my concerns about accessibility for the room — it's weird, because they were listened to by some people and ignored by the people who would have implemented it. But like, a couple of the people were like "yeah, that's really important to talk about." And I was there for some of the focus groups because I recorded them.
[00:32:22]
We would talk to the committee about them, like "people are really interested in this and interested in that." And so Christy definitely, I felt, like she listened to me on that committee and (inaudible at 00:32:40). She definitely was like "okay, what do you have to say?" And so, while there are a lot of problems with that room, the biggest problem in that room was actually sort of the political fall-out of Christy really wanting TeamWork (ph). That stressed me out a lot. And then the other thing was we were working in that room right as the economy crashed, so the funding was hacked to bits. So there were all these people who were like "we want to do this" but they couldn't do, and that was a very, well, yep, financial, yep (pause).
[00:33:40]
In creating documentation for that and training people on the use of that room, that was actually a fairly decent process. I was stressed about it because it was the first time I had done something that big. But it was my responsibility and I was able to get help with it, et cetera. The previous head of my department who left, cause she was frustrated with Cambridge, was really supportive of me. She got me money to go to two conferences, she was like "we really need to develop your career so you can really get ahead, I really want you to work on these technology things," and then she left. Also, no one else liked her. I thought she was really awesome, not a lot of people did.
[00:34:48]
And part of it is that she, like me, spoke really quickly and I was like "what, that's how you talk." That never bothered me. So I think in some ways the positive experience on the instruction room committee made me more pissed off about not having things go well.
THERAPIST: I see. There was actually appearing to be some promise.
[00:35:30]
CLIENT: Yeah. And oddly enough, in the beginning of some of the library transition stuff, they would have these — they were having these open discussions in the library. And they were just Cambridge College library people. And so it was kind of awkward because someone like Christy or Karl or someone would like open up a kind of topic, "if we were changing this thing or we were doing this thing, what do you think?" And the room would just go dead silent. And so I would often ask a question, and on two or three different occasions someone from HR or the speaker was like "thank you for asking something."
[00:36:20]
So I guess I had a period — there were some positive experiences. I think probably the last two years there haven't really been, which is depressing. I think part of what has kept me going in this job was the sort of experiences of being listened to and having what I'm good at valued (pause). And I think, sort of, my experiences with Will really — although a big part of my experience with that was that management did not give a crap about me, and that HR couldn't do anything about it.
[00:37:26]
I think that was sort of like my big takeaway. And since then, I've found it really hard to — like I feel just really uncomfortable when anyone at a high level asks me something or asks my opinion. Cause I'm just like, "I don't know where we're going." I feel like I really don't know what answer they want, and I can't really say do you —
THERAPIST: You mean like the kind of positive answer or what you really think?
CLIENT: Yeah. Mainly what Chet and Harry want me to answer, which is the happy positive answer like "of course we can do that, of course that would be awesome." But that's not — not typically what I've done in my workplace. Like in other jobs, the minute obviously there's some — "sure I'll get that done" but when it's been really impossible or really ridiculous, I just said "no, that's not possible unless you do X, Y and Z too." (pause)
[00:38:59]
So yeah, like I just really — it's that I feel I've lost a lot of faith and trust in the Cambridge Library. It's just a [massive] (ph) employer. As you don't know if it's something that, like, is fixable. And I don't know, sort of reaching out to try to fix it or mediate it or whatever, is going be like me running my head into a wall again, or if it could conceivably go well. Part of me is like, you know, "doctor, it keeps hurting when I do this, should I do this?" That's part of me, but part of me is like "no," but —
[00:40:07]
THERAPIST: I get they even sort of said as much. It's funny, in a way, like I've heard of a [conversation] (ph), but —
CLIENT: Yeah, you know, and it's a totally (inaudible at 00:40:17). It's like if it's never worked before, why would it work again — why would it work now?
THERAPIST: Maybe cause you would really want it to?
CLIENT: Yeah.
[00:40:31]
THERAPIST: And it doesn't seem like there's any good reason why it shouldn't or hasn't, mostly?
CLIENT: Yeah. Also, Christy is — well, it's wrong, so is Will — like Karl has been working for Cambridge for over a decade. Chet has been working for Cambridge for — and by working, like, in the library — they both work in the libraries continually for probably for 10 or 15 years. And I'm like "yes, you are kind of invested in 'we've always done it that way'". [inaudible at 00:41:13] Some people probably think, "well, Christy is really new, she's been here like four years maybe, so maybe she would not be quite as 'but we've always done it this way.'"
[00:41:30]
But, I mean, yeah it hasn't necessarily worked so — And I know that one response is to leave, like a lot of people said "why don't you quit?" And I'm like "well, (inaudible at 00:41:50)." But, there's a lot like — part of what I get hung up on is I'm like "but there's no reason why." There doesn't seem to be a reason why —
THERAPIST: You know, like the other thing that you've described is that the responses you get from most people in management generally don't make a lot of sense. I mean, sometimes they do, but usually I think you describe them not making as much sense, like it's unclear why Chet couldn't listen or be a little more responsive to your questions or frustrations. The other part is like, nobody is going to get hurt very much.
[00:42:51]
CLIENT: They did surprisingly talk to him last week, and he was all like "oh, I wondered why you've been seeming so resistant to why I never work on these things." And I'm like, "well why didn't you just ask me, jackass? You're my manager, sort it out." And it was just so crazy cause I'm like, "there's a really easy solution, it's called 'asking'. I've always been honest with you, so what the fuck?" And yet that seemed like, to him, was just like some kind of — he didn't seem to know what to do with "you seem resistant." (pause)
[00:43:58]
It's just to show — like, I also don't know if I'm using "well, we're in the middle of a transition" as an excuse or not. Like, you're in the middle of a transition so maybe this is a really crappy time to talk to someone about it. And on the other hand, I'm like I don't want to be here in three months, so that could change my opinion (pause). And I do want — I mean, I do kind of feel like I do think — I could almost tolerate like "look, this is the situation, this has led me to why I want to quit, even though allegedly I'm an employee that you really want, or a type of employee you really want. Like, maybe something has gone wrong." But she may also be like "well, I could lay you off if you really want to, since you want to." So, I don't know.
[00:45:07]
THERAPIST: Which is what you're saying —
CLIENT: — that I'd be happy with, in a weird way, like that wouldn't be a bad outcome. It would feel like a weird outcome to me (laughter). But, yeah it's true, I wouldn't be mad about it.
THERAPIST: As you said, yeah.
CLIENT: I think, yeah, my desire to just leave and be laid off is really conflicting with my sort of general "but I don't want to lose my job," except that I do. But only in a way that gets me unemployment (pause).
[00:46:28]
THERAPIST: I'm not quite sure what else to say.
CLIENT: Yeah. Now I feel kind of weirdly final about it. I mean, on the other hand it's sort of like "do I want to work on it?" And I'm torn that as I talk about it, I think the answer is I would like to try (inaudible at 00:47:00) and deal with the, I guess, give it the good ol' college try. It really doesn't —
THERAPIST: We'll stop for now. See you Friday.
CLIENT: Okay.
END TRANSCRIPT
