



[p. <i>175</i>]
<font size="5"><b>First Person Account: Paranoid Schizophrenia—A Daughter's Story</b></font>

<b><i>by Jackie Powell</i></b>


<b>The article that follows is part off the <i>Schizophrenia
Bulletin</i>'s ongoing <i>First Person Account</i> series. We
hope that mental health professionals—the <i>Bulletin</i>'s
primary audience—will take this opportunity to learn
about the issues and difficulties confronted by consumers
of mental health care. In addition, we hope
that these accounts will give patients and families a
better sense of not being alone in confronting the problems
that can be anticipated by persons with serious
emotional difficulties. We welcome other contributions
from patients, ex-patients, or family members. Our
major editorial requirement is that such contributions
be clearly written and organized, and that a novel or
unique aspect of schizophrenia be described, with special
emphasis on points, that will be important for professionals.
Clinicians who see articulate patients, with
experiences they believe should be shared, might
encourage these patients to submit their articles to
<i>First Person Accounts</i>, Division of Clinical and
Treatment Research, NIMH, 5600 Fishers Lane, Rm.
10-85, Rockville, MD 20857.—<i>The Editors</i>.</b>


I can clearly remember my formative years as a time of
confusion, anxiety, and desperation. My mother was 25
years old when she was first hospitalized after becoming
aggressive toward my father because of his adulterous
ways. Their 4-year marriage had been onerous for my
mother. As I remember, there was a gradual change in her
behavior over a few months. She was no longer able to
provide the personal fortitude needed to keep the family
together. My father spent most of his time working or
drinking. I remember the arguments when he would come
home the next day intoxicated and smelling of smoke and
alcohol. Arguments became an integral part of our family
dynamics. Occasionally the arguments progressed to a
pushing and shoving match, but on this particular day, it
escalated into something more lethal. My mother
approached my father with a shotgun after he attempted to
walk away from the argument.


I do not remember the details after he ran out of the
house and she continued after him. I ran to my grandmother's
next door, and my uncles tried to intervene. The
sheriff's entourage arrived shortly after my uncles' intervention.
I vividly remember her screaming when the sheriff
and deputies struggled with her on the ground as they
tried to place handcuffs on her. Not really understanding
the magnitude of my mother's pain and misery, I stood
with my paternal relatives as people from the community
gathered around whispering derogatory comments and
making speculative statements.


During those few months before the hospitalization,
it was difficult for my mother to remain in her work environment
in a hosiery mill. Although supervisors described
her as an excellent employee, she suddenly starting accusing
co-workers of plotting against her. The delusions were
vague but tenacious. She had exceeded the limit on all her
credit cards, and long-distance phone calls exaggerated
the usual expense of the phone bill. She called relatives,
high school acquaintances, and any other soul who came
to her mind. Some discussions were cordial and reminiscent
of times shared, but other calls accused people of
harassing her or of being "jealous" of her. The calls were
usually made late at night or during the early hours of the
morning. She was unaware of the inappropriateness of her
behavior.


She slept 2 to 3 hours a night and spent most of her
time pacing in the house or walking up and down the road
in clothing inappropriate for the weather or for societal
expectations. She altered some of her clothing into a new
form of fashion. She gave other items away to people in
the community or threw the items in the trash, noting that
she no longer needed them. She had developed a hostile,
almost sarcastic character. There was no reasoning with
her at this time. To confront her meant igniting her anger
and belligerence. By age 6, I realized that it was better to

[p. <i>176</i>]

The small African-American community where we
lived provided little support or empathy for my mother or
my family; my mother merely assumed the persona of
someone crazy or having "bad nerves." There was an
awareness in the community of the need for medication to
treat her bizarre behavior, therefore, when my mother
returned and her symptoms had abated, people inquired
about her compliance with her medication and her "state
of mind." They would say, "Sally Mae, are you still taking
your medication?"


It was 6 weeks before my mother returned home. I
visited her once at the State hospital. My mother and I
cried through most of the visit. To my mother, being in a
State hospital was like being in an abattoir. Before the
visit ended, she gave me a monkey she had made out of
socks during one of her therapies. I kept this monkey for
many years. Later, it reminded me of the pain I experienced
seeing my mother in the hospital.


She appeared very different when she returned. She
moved slowly and she had gained weight. Her eyes
appeared dazed, her speech was slurred, and at times her
hands trembled. I tried extremely hard not to be afraid of
her, but I did not know this person who used to be my
mother: The mother who made me laugh when we
watched television together, the mother who listened to
music and danced With my friends and me, the mother
who combed my hair for school each day, and the mother
who made sure I was safe at night did not return home.
She was no longer exuberant, and enjoyment seemed foreign
to her. She appeared numb to the world that she felt
had destroyed her life. From this time forward, my life
was no longer the same. Somehow we became symbiotically
united, and I knew that I would always need to take
care of her in some way.


My mother and father divorced shortly after her
release from the first hospitalization. She returned to live
with her mother. Their home was about 13 miles from the
house I had called home for 4 years. My father's family
decided to have my father and me stay with my paternal
grandmother. Monday through Friday, I went to school
pretending to have a "normal" life, but knowing that other
kids knew about my mother's hospitalization through their
parents. On Friday nights my father drove me to my
maternal grandmother's home where I stayed until Sunday
night. This pattern continued until I went away to college.


My mother was no longer my mother. She no longer
felt comfortable making the parental decisions that I
needed her to make, nor was she able to set limits on my
acting-out behavior. She passively allowed my father's
family to be responsible for child-rearing and I merely
visited her. Gradually, I found myself treating her like a
child and thinking that I knew what was best for her and
me. I loved her dearly, but I resented her even more for
taking away my childhood. Somehow this disease
stripped her of her charisma and excitement about life and
left a shell that ruminated about the past, no longer connected
or interested in day-to-day events. She was able to
verbalize her love for me, but her affect did not demonstrate
affection: Something was missing. She was no
longer available to help me face the normal vicissitudes of
life. There were no longer any boundaries on language or
information. If my mother remembered something, she
spoke it. She impulsively verbalized historical family
garbage and ill deeds and dumped this information into
the lap of a child.


I learned to live two lives, the life with my mother
and a more superficial life in the community. I learned to
call my paternal grandmother "Mother," and the community
soon learned the same. During acute psychotic
episodes my mother would rage about how I was taken
away from her and how cruel my father's family had been
to her. She would reveal frightening stories that I could
not remember, such as being made to sleep on the floor, or
being dragged by the sheriff. Unfortunately, there was no
way to validate my mother's accusations. No family
member would talk about her condition. It appeared that
they wanted her medicated and paralyzed. So the task for
me was to differentiate between what was delusional and
what was real for my mother during these episodes. I
believed that the truth was somewhere in the middle and
that for my mother her perception was 100 percent reality.
I soon followed my family's strategy. My mother became
a secret that I learned to avoid exposing in order to protect
the two of us from being scrutinized.


After the first hospitalization, it was almost predictable
that every 4 years my mother's behavior appeared
to change in the fall. I would find myself becoming prepared
for her to decompensate and looking for subtle
changes in her behavior. In my mother's community, no
effort was made to explain mental illness to family members.
The effort focused instead on medicating the patient
without treating the entire family, a strategy that perpetuated
the lack of support and understanding in this particular
community. Although my mother tried desperately to
recuperate from each psychotic episode and each arrest,
she became increasingly reclusive and paranoid. Each
episode was precipitated by an erotomanic delusion or
delusions of persecution in the workplace that followed
shortly after the psychiatrist decided to taper her antipsychotic
medications.

[p. <i>177</i>]

As the taper began, my mother would believe that she
no longer needed to take medication and that nothing was
wrong long with her: Everyone else was crazy. For the first 10
years or so after her first hospitalization she worked in
factories and restaurants. However, after a few years, the
taper would occur and she would create elaborate stories
about her co-workers plotting against her.


She would also obsess about married men, fantasizing
that they were going to leave their wives to be with
her. Occasionally this would progress to her calling the
wife or waiting for the man at the diner. The result was
usually trespassing issues and threatening behavior. Men
would come and go, but my mother continued to yearn for
the family she never had and the marriage she dreamed of
incessantly. Eventually, she gave up the idea of maintaining
a full-time job.


Now my mother's income is derived from disability
Social Security income and any financial support I might
give. Over the years her ability to maintain a logical conversation
has diminished. One has to search to find a connection
between the theme of a dialog and my mother's
response. Her language in jest is more nonsensical and
tangential. She has become increasingly perseverative
about minuscule things. She lives alone in an apartment,
making lists (mostly the food menu for the day) and posting
them on the walls. She spends most of her time cooking
thinking of new ways to "create" dishes that usually
taste very strange to me. She is very cynical and critical of
others. There is an obvious air of grandiosity and entitlement.
She goes to the grocery store and will occasionally
walk around the neighborhood to "clear her mind." She
avoids going to the laundromat and now washes clothes
by hand at home. She also avoids answering the phone
and uses the answering machine to screen all her calls.
She still feels that most people are not benevolent. After
25 years of neuroleptic treatment, she has discontinued all
medications and periodically will call her case manager.
She is convinced that she no longer needs medication.
People in the community continue to ask her about her
medication and now she lies to them.


As for my relationship as an adult with my mother, I
would be lying to say that I do not think about her condition
daily. I also grieve over the loss of my mother as I
knew her before the first episode. For brief moments, my
mother gets better and she is more aware of who I am as
my own being. Sadly, I have to acknowledge the brevity of
this connectedness and merely treasure the moment. I visit
her once or twice a month and this seems to be enough for
her. The visits are short and usually involve her cooking
and updating me on what has been going on in the neighborhood.
I often invite her to visit me, but familiarity is
important to her and she typically declines the offer. When
she does visit, I get very little rest because she is awake
throughout the night eating, watching TV, reading cook
books, or just sitting in a chair. When my friends happen to
be around the two of us, I typically say that my mother is
very odd to forewarn them in case her conversation
becomes tangential or she injects a neologism. Most of my
friends accept this without question, but others feel it necessary
to inquire more. I usually ignore their questions or
minimize the significance of her thought disorder.


My mother calls me once a week and I quickly assess
her mental functioning and her medical status. She is 50
pounds overweight for her height and body frame.
Approximately 5 years ago, she was also diagnosed with
hypertension. She sees an internist only when her symptoms
interfere with daily events (that is, shortness of
breath on minimal exertion and headaches). When antihypertensive
medications are prescribed, she takes them
until the symptoms subside. She is unaware of the severity
of her medical condition and of the impact of her obesity
on her overall health.


My mother's condition has greatly marked my career
as well as my personal life. Ironically, I am a mental
health professional and I work primarily with patients
who have schizophrenia. I have deliberately adjusted the
language of this article to reflect more of my emotional
anguish and less of the psychological and psychiatric terminology
that I think would take away from my personal
account. I am no longer the 6-year-old who saw her
mother taken away, but I struggle daily with what is real
and what is delusional where my mother is concerned and
how I can protect both her rights and her safety in an era
of limited psychiatric involvement caused by elevated
health care costs. Heavy caseloads and minimal patient
contact do not allow the continuity needed to provide adequate
care to the chronically mentally ill of our nation. I
hope that my personal account will touch readers in a way
that will encourage the reevaluation of health care systems and
policies.


<b>The Author</b>


Jackie Powell is a pre-med student at the University of
Minnesota, Minneapolis, Minnesota.

