TRANSCRIPT OF AUDIO FILE:
______________________________________________________________________________
BEGIN TRANSCRIPT:


(Note: In a portion of the recording, there is a faint electronic tone that sounds intermittently and cuts off the dialogue. We have noted these instances with the word "tone.")


COUNSELOR: (inaudible) 1971, client 0729107. One, two, three, four.


PATIENT: (inaudible)


COUNSELOR: Sorry to be late.


PATIENT: Oh, that's all right. (inaudible)


COUNSELOR: Well, I suddenly remembered I had to have my [tire overhitched] (ph), and it's not as easy with a car. It's quicker walking. 


PATIENT: Oh. Where do you live?


COUNSELOR: Just across the (inaudible) [back of the] Center for Distant Learning. (inaudible).


PATIENT: (inaudible)


COUNSELOR: Yeah.


PATIENT: (inaudible) (sighs) I'm all right.


COUNSELOR: Okay. [What are we going to do with it?] (ph) (inaudible) ... no special significance.


PATIENT: [There's some of them.] (ph)


COUNSELOR: Christmas. 


PATIENT: Well ... (sighs). [I don't think I can think about it because my brain is cold]. (ph)


COUNSELOR: Mmm. Did you walk over?


PATIENT: Mmm hmm. It's this time of year, I guess. [You begin to] (ph) feel like this is some sort of insanity (inaudible) here. Seems like there's one week in the year that ... it gets just terribly cold. [Then it never] (ph) gets above zero very much. (inaudible) [Actually everything outside] (ph)


COUNSELOR: (indaudible) why (ph).


PATIENT: Yeah.


COUNSELOR: Why here? 


PATIENT: Well. Let me ask you a question. Have you ever read What You Always Wanted to Know About Sex but Were Too Ashamed Too Afraid to Ask? 


COUNSELOR: ...Were Afraid to Ask. [0:02:11]


PATIENT: Yeah. By David Reuben.


COUNSELOR: Yeah. Yeah. I don't think I've read it solidly through. I got it and (inaudible) somebody borrowed it and I haven't gotten it back.


PATIENT: Well I began reading that and, you know, that's like reading a psychology book. Somebody in therapy, it could be almost ... you know, because you started. You know, I think that if I were to critique the book, the only thing I would say is that in his effort to remain light and gay and airy, he doesn't explain that there are x number of things that can possibly be done, extremes are very overt because ... I guess that you tend ... I tend, when I read a book like that, to identify with some of the things in it, you know. And some of the things are fine, he certainly I think does away with a lot of myths, but some of the things were a little scary too. When he talks about perversions, that's scary. But somehow, I was able to muddle through that. And it did give me some insight into the fact that other people do have problems in the same area, which I'm not by myself. Especially in the area where he talks about prostitution, you know, the fact that one of the prostitutes he interviewed ... I don't know, is he a gynecologist or is he a psychologist?


COUNSELOR: Psychiatrist (ph).


PATIENT: Psychiatrist, is he?


COUNSELOR: Yeah. 


PATIENT: One of the prostitutes he interviewed said that if the American woman ever found out what a prostitute was doing and woke up to that fact, that they would be out of business. But at least it gave me some insight, it articulated in a very nice way some of the questions that I (inaudible at 0:04:27). So that ...


COUNSELOR: It seems helpful in that way.


PATIENT: Yeah. It tended to screw me up a little bit too in the fact that it ... the interesting part ... I never have read any of the "how to" books, but of course I've seen them always referred to. And even though this one tries very hard not to be a "how to" book, it has some of the "how to," "you should" kind of phenomena in it, and that's a little hard to take. It didn't have as little influence that I thought it would. I thought it would be like reading just another interesting book. That's a very vulnerable area for me, at least, right now. 


COUNSELOR: [Seems like] (ph) it would be frightening to look at at all. And then somehow, if you can immediately identify different terms (ph) and different aspects of it ...


PATIENT: Right. It's divided up into chapters, you know, you wonder if you're going to be able to make it through the next chapter. Susan suggested that I shouldn't possibly read it. Of course some of that's her problem, you know, and some of it's she I think was a very real concern. I don't work in that sphere. Susan and I work in very different spheres and the fact that she oftentimes will not pile into a brick wall, she'll kind of go around it or put it out of her mind. I have to kind of hit it straight on. And so I didn't put it down, and I'm glad I didn't because it helped, some, to know that other people were struggling too. [0:06:31]


COUNSELOR: [Did you see his article in the news?] (ph)


PATIENT: Yeah. This is rather much, I think, what is important. I haven't really ... the question, interestingly enough, has not overtly come up, except when Susan was pregnant with Matthew, it did. And we explained how it was. And the only problem I would have is when do you know as a parent when a question would come up? 


COUNSELOR: [If you do] (ph) the asking [that's one thing] (ph).


PATIENT: Yeah. Yeah. But I certainly know how babies are made. Very good book in the Life Time series called How Babies Are Made. Have you ever seen that?


COUNSELOR: I don't think so. 


PATIENT: It's quite explicit. It starts out with lower forms of animals and cutaways, and there are cutaways in paper, kind of a relief paper. But they're on a one-dimension print and it's good. And there's one hang-up. When it gets up to people, it says "And Mommy and Daddy lie in bed and love each other. And then Mommy's tummy starts to grow." Well that's ... you know, skips a few things, but for their age, I'm not sure that that's not all they need. (inaudible) [for another time] (ph). [0:08:15]


But, yeah, he seems to be, I think, on the kind of right track as far as what he's saying about freedom in the ... I don't know what kind of impact he's having. Where I read that if you ... it was on the front page, when you turned over to page four, well if you turn from page one to page four, you ran into Ann Landers, who is the epitome of liberal hang-up. Ann Landers is about as liberal as Queen Victoria. And I think she hangs a lot of people up. Implicit in Ann Landers is an interesting phenomenon that's not implicit in David Reuben and that's the fact that sex is an obligatory phenomenon for a woman. It's a sacred thing for a woman. You know, there's a real dichotomy, a real division in the sexes. And Ann Landers really comes down very affirmative on sexual relationships. I guess she's gotten a lot of letters talking about how bad people felt rather than facing that directly, she took the negative side. 


(Sighs) Then I had a good talk with my advisor yesterday. Finally, I think he listened. He really listened. I told him that I just wasn't getting my research done because of the other sort of incidental things going on over there, and that I wanted some advice from him as my advisor. What do I do? Because he had been consciously and unconsciously putting these little obstacles in my way. Now you know, it's not like he was making the course more difficult, now on the contrary, he just wasn't realizing that I wasn't getting the research done. 


COUNSELOR: It sounds like it felt good that somehow he could really hear you this time.


PATIENT: I think he did. I hope he did. Now I may be mis-reading it. There was a point where it was really kind of sticky. I thought he was going to cry. And that's unusual. As it ended up, I think he really did hear me, and that felt really good. There's a lot of pressure in which you're under. You have your PhD.


COUNSELOR: Not long ago.


PATIENT: Not long ago. You can remember.


COUNSELOR: (inaudible) all the pressure.


PATIENT: You can remember the pressure. The idea of when you're starting out, you have such a long way to go that you don't mind it. But when you're getting toward the end, that it seems like such a SHORT way to go, that you don't want anything to get [in your way] (ph). 


COUNSELOR: You want to get done.


PATIENT: You want to get DONE. Get the pressure off. I don't mind doing these things, but gosh, just give me the paper. And I'll be glad to go (inaudible at 0:11:45). I don't know, you know, I have this ... when somebody asks me to do something; I have these real feelings of guilt if I don't do it, if I say "no." I said "no" yesterday, and that's what precipitated all this. I said "no" to one of those fellows that asked me to do something. And he couldn't understand that because I just ... I just don't say "no." And ... well, that doesn't feel very good at all. [0:12:26]


COUNSELOR: The saying "no."


PATIENT: Yeah. And his response (inaudible) quite upset when I said "no." So he immediately ran to my advisor who is also in charge of this other a** (ph) thing. I don't know, the whole problem began to evolve. What happened was something that I haven't told you that kind of, I think, is necessary to fill you in on the situation because it doesn't seem so bad now. But it sure seemed terrible yesterday at 3:00. I mean, you know, I had to go back and face the music, and it was just a terrible feeling. 


I'm one of the public health service grants (ph), which means that I'm supposed to be doing research on time (ph). Well the way it's set up there at the clinic is you also, while you're doing your research, get a residency requirement out of the way. But it's not ... that's not a ... something that you come right out and say. You kind of use the shady side of the granting procedures to do that. Well we had always ... I had always thought that at the end of my chief residency-ship, which has just been completed, that I would receive a certificate like everyone else, that piece of paper that said yes, in fact, I had done that so that if anyone ever asked, I had the piece of paper. The piece of paper is not very important because I don't take very good care of those pieces of paper. They're all scattered all over the house, unframed and all that, so (chuckles) ... but not having the piece of paper meant a lot. And we ... I had been led to believe that I was going to have that piece of paper, and he told me about two months ago that in fact I WASN'T going to get that piece of paper. That kind of took the wind out ... the credibility there is robbed (ph). I had told him something else in confidence, which he had betrayed. Once again, that knocked off the credibility. This is my advisor. He had used me sometimes as a confidante confessor, which I find a little bit uncomfortable. That same compulsion to pull a little more of the weight rather than just listening to him, you know, because he is a very ... he's got a lot of irons in the fire. So that there are all these situations that are hard, once again, to work under at best, but when you realize that he is your advisor and you don't want to push too hard too far because you don't want a new advisor. That's (inaudible).


COUNSELOR: So you've been in a very delicate type of position.


PATIENT: Terribly delicate. Yeah. If he was just my boss, that would be one thing. That wouldn't be so bad because you could feel like you could always get another job. But to have him as your advisor ... and I guess I could always get another advisor. Problem is there's a lot of work that's already been put in under this one. And you wouldn't like to really just start right over. So it's a rather complex situation and I really felt good when I think that he heard me yesterday. I was really very relieved. 

I don't know what else to talk about. I have one thing I want to talk about. When is my 20 weeks up, do you know? Do you have a record? [0:16:35]


COUNSELOR: I have ... I think this is the ... (inaudible) minutes that to rest this morning, I haven't. 


PATIENT: That's the first time you've ever gotten up and moved around the room. We can always sit here and pollute (ph) our chair.


COUNSELOR: It is possible, I guess. (Chuckling) Yeah, that's funny you get rooted. I usually write down the numbers so I can ... yeah, this is the 18th. (She counts the appointments).


PATIENT: When do you take your vacation? 


COUNSELOR: (Finishes counting appointments). Twenty. May 20th. 


PATIENT: May 20th - that's the day after my birthday. Okay. What happens then? Do I ... can we stay together?


COUNSELOR: Yeah. As far as the ... I checked with Jeff, and as far as he's concerned, it should be a kind of ending period as far as his research and he wants ...


PATIENT: Yeah. He wants to do the test. Okay. Fine. But you and I can stay together?


COUNSELOR: But if you want to go on, we can go on. And I'm going to be available. I figure I should stop doing 15 so I can back up my book. But otherwise, I'll be here and I don't know what I'll do after that if I'm around then set up somewhere in Central Park, we could go on after that. But certainly we could set like August 1st [however far you want it.] (ph)


PATIENT: That sounds good because, you know, it isn't going to get any better, I tell you! (Chuckles) I may have to commute to have therapy, but I may do that because when I start writing this dissertation, I'm sure that all the insecurities that I never, ever thought about [they're going to be tumbling out] (ph)


COUNSELOR: Well I ... apparently it doesn't matter [with this] (ph). He wants 20 sessions, YOU (inaudible at 18:36).


PATIENT: And it still feels comfortable, it's okay with you?


COUNSELOR: Yeah.


PATIENT: Okay. That does take a ...


COUNSELOR: [And relieved?] (ph)


PATIENT: Yeah. Golly, you know, I knew the Center was closing, I didn't want the idea of starting all over, you know with a short time to go. I'm sorry it's closing, golly, you know. I don't understand all the politics involved. It's scary for me because, you know, to hear you had planned on, I guess, on being here for a while and now [you're not] (ph).


COUNSELOR: All of a sudden your budget disappears (chuckling).


PATIENT: Right. 


COUNSELOR: Although it's a trend in the whole field of psychology, not just here.


PATIENT: To get away from this sort of thing?


COUNSELOR: To take it out of the university. Pull the (inaudible at 0:19:44) separate the academic and the clinical. (Inaudible) 


PATIENT: Yeah. How do people become clinical if they, in their academic environment, never get exposed to it? There'll be nothing like this, this community mental health center [will be by] (ph) the post office is not.


COUNSELOR: Yeah, that's [as far as students] (ph), that's the student mental health center, the one down the block, yeah. And that's connected [with the department cut] (ph) [and just related to] (ph) taking care of students [who get into difficulties, academic kind of thing] (ph). [0:20:27]


PATIENT: (inaudible) What did we talk about? I don't know. I don't guess I do. I feel tight, really tight about the quarter. I feel like somehow I ... I passed off this book it's ... it seems silly, though, to let a book cold-cock you. It really [had an effect] (ph). I want Susan to read the book, and I know that is really sick. Because what I'm saying by wanting her to read the book is, see I can't say it. I want him to say it for me. And he has more ... (inaudible name?) had more impact on you than I will. And [I feel like I want to do that] (ph).


COUNSELOR: Does she [want to read the book] (ph)? Or is this something she (inaudible)?


PATIENT: I think she's scared of it. She's really scared of reading that. She was, I think, really scared for ME to read that, but she's awfully scared herself because I know when I ... when she told me that she got it, she said, "And I read part of it. I read the part on impotency. And I thought it was a very bad book," she said. So I, you know, not going to push that she read it. [0:22:17]


COUNSELOR: (inaudible) uncomfortable scary.


PATIENT: Yeah. It really is. It's uncomfortable for her ... I think it may be more uncomfortable for her than it actually is for me. The problem is that she doesn't even feel comfortable bringing it up in therapy. And I said, "That's an awkward situation" and I don't know how to encourage her to look at it. And yet it does have an effect on me. 


Somehow ... I told you last week that our sexual problem, our immediate sexual problem, had gotten better. We at least made love a couple of times. We came ... started preparing for this week, which puts her back in her classes where she's teaching and me back in classes, and the combination of that, we just don't have any time. And that's fine. I can understand that intellectually, but somehow that doesn't get the job done either. It doesn't help much not to have the time. And I'm trying to understand this in the broader sense of the thing, and it seems like maybe we have to be able to work out some way that if we DON'T have the time, we make the time. It's that important. But that doesn't seem ... its priority is very low. It produces a lot of guilt, especially on her part, because of this obligation type of phenomenon, the typical Ann Landers approach of, you want to keep hubby home by the fire, and then you have to stay home by the fire too. [0:24:14]


COUNSELOR: And it doesn't feel the spontaneous expression of a feeling kind of thing.


PATIENT: No. No because the thing about it is, is that when she's working on something like she's working on, she can't let go. That sounds very much like the typical big businessman who orients and segregates his life so that he has business from 9:00 to 5:00 or 9:00 to 8:00 in the evening and he comes home and from 8:30 to 9:30 he has his cocktail hour, from 9:30 to 9:45 his sex, and from 9:45 on until about 11:00 his television, you know, that sort of very regimented life. And she tends to have that kind of ... that inability to let go of the things that she's thinking about. And there's no way that one person can work it through. It just doesn't work very well. And then [I have a point what to say] (ph) 


COUNSELOR: Sounds like it would be very hard for you, then, to kind of appear and then start, in some way, spontaneously acting, leading up to sex [if that's what you felt like] (ph).


PATIENT: Yeah. Yeah. I guess that is one of the problems. I sometimes have felt that I put blame on a lot of other people, a lot of blame on my advisor; this whole business of people won't let me be myself. Well, what am I really saying? I'm saying that I'm frightened that people won't like me if I AM myself. I think that's what I'm saying. I'll be rejected. I guess that's what I'm saying about the sex too, it's the fact that I will be rejected. And I just can't take that very easily. It's not at all her fault. I don't lead and ... I don't facilitate things like that, and that's not her fault. It's getting less and less easy to live under that umbrella of the fact that other people are imposing themselves (ph) upon me. And doing away with that, being a martyr, is what I counted on a lot of times, to excuse certain things that I did. [0:27:03]


COUNSELOR: It's uncomfortable to kind of [be moved like that] (ph).


PATIENT: Yeah, it is uncomfortable and it feels good too. It feels more realistic and more mature and more ... it gives me a better feeling that's healthier. I guess what I'd like to be able to do is to initiate that, and if I WAS rejected, to be able to live with the rejection fairly easily. But the rejection comes down so strong, that it kind of hurts so bad, that I would rather not try and then be rejected, if that makes any sense. 


(Phone rings)


PATIENT: How do you know who called?


COUNSELOR: I'll find out.


PATIENT: You'll find out.


COUNSELOR: They answer it downstairs. But usually I turn it off (tone sound)


PATIENT: ... [find Joy of Sex for you] (ph). [0:28:29]


(Tone sound)


PATIENT: ... much of the problem is not outside, but how do I begin looking at what's inside? I don't really know. How do you start to equip yourself to be able to handle things like that without building up these great big defenses? 


(Tone sound)


PATIENT: ... right, that you're okay and (tone sound) ... because it (tone) ... you do to get around (tone sound) ...


COUNSELOR: ... sounds like to be hurt [is very upsetting] (ph).


PATIENT: Oh yeah.


COUNSELOR: (inaudible at 0:29:45) is it possible to accept being hurt? 


PATIENT: Yeah. Because it ... to not accept being hurt ... to not be hurt is either that you can de-cerebrate (ph) it some way or that you build up so many defenses that you don't really KNOW when you're being hurt (inaudible) consciously. That's not what I want to do. That's what I'm scared of doing. What I want to be able to do is to be able to BE hurt and to work through the hurt independently. I don't know if it's possible to do it independently because certainly yesterday, for instance, when I was hurting so bad around 3:00, I talked with Susan; I talked with (tone sound) that seemed to help. But (tone sound) it was almost like they had their problems too, and I don't guess I could (ph). Now I was letting them see something of me, and that's scary because being rejected ... they can reject, they can really, at that point, shoot me down. [0:31:22]


COUNSELOR: Like you were kind of opening yourself up to saying, "Here I am and I'm hurting and I want some help."


PATIENT: Right. Right. And that (tone sound) ...


COUNSELOR: It sounds (inaudible) and that feels unfair to them [in some ways because I'm putting pressure on them] (ph) and I'm saying, "Listen to me, I need you right now."


PATIENT: Yeah. Yeah, exactly. That's unfair to make them have to be there. (Tone sound) ... and they're not really my friends. You know that's (tone) ... we would probably understand if they said, "I just can't hear what you're saying (tone) ... and I have such terrible problems (tone) ... I turned up (ph) the lights (tone) ... and we waited a half an hour (inaudible). I didn't go (tone) ... that's been in the back of my mind. It's funny, because I went all the way around my arm to get to that (tone) ... you know, so I thought of all sources (ph) and [our phone often has] (ph), you know, people often call our number and have the wrong name, predominantly black men asking predominantly for a black woman usually different (tone) ... [0:34:54]


COUNSELOR: ... know whether you (inaudible) the place and the person (tone) ...


PATIENT: ...[asked that] (ph) the idea because somebody that I knew (tone) ... this person. (Tone) ... too high a voice (ph). (Tone) ... I've been really scared (inaudible) kind of in the background, will we get another [phone call] (ph) (inaudible) ... that person (ph) (inaudible) really for me (tone) ... that could really ... can really startle that person. I really (tone) ... and (inaudible) but when I'm stopped, it (tone) ... that happens (ph) [a lot of times] (ph). We live right there on the corner 57th and Maryland (ph) and that happen and it doesn't really bother me. (Inaudible) say we walk into the hospital, [going home from] (ph) the hospital (inaudible) black man and woman. The black man stopped me and asked me if he could borrow a dime for a telephone call. God, I'm scared to death. It's not that he had a gun on me and asked me for all my money. And I don't like to do that and I don't like to live that frightened way. That just is really, for me, very destructive. And yet I don't know how to handle it. I don't know whether I should wait for something else. But I just ... I guess I [have suppressed it] (ph). Obviously that's the highlight of our week and ... [0:38:36]


COUNSELOR: [It seems like a very helpless feeling] (ph) (inaudible) wait for something else. What else can you do?


PATIENT: Yeah. Yeah. After it happened, Susan said, the next morning, she said, "You know, Russell, I don't think I want to talk ... I don't think we ought to talk about this with a lot of people." And that's her standard comment when something goes wrong. "I don't think we ought to talk about this with a lot of people." And I said, "Well, I can't promise you that I won't, because I need to work this out and I'm really frightened and I need to work this out." Well Sunday, we went to church, where there's a time when [it's called "concerns of the people"] (ph). Anybody can stand up and say whatever they want. Well, I stood up and told ... related the threat. And I began to wonder ... it brought on all sorts of aspects. Why did I stand up? It brought the whole idea of the beard thing, came tumbling into the picture [here for an] (ph) interesting reason. Do I grow the beard? Do I shave the beard for attention? Is it wrong to want attention? Is that what I do everything for - is attention? "Notice me. Please notice me." Is that my sole motivation on everything? I don't know. I'm not sure. [0:40:04]


COUNSELOR: But that's what you were thinking?


PATIENT: This is what I'm beginning to think - that ... because after I stood up and related the incident, Susan wrote out the fact that she wanted to walk home by herself after church. Well I knew that she was really upset. That was her way of punishing me through the rest of the service was to write something neat (ph) like that, and it was the worst thing she could do. Well I walked home, [it ended up] (ph). I didn't even walk home; I walked over to the hospital because I just couldn't face her consternation over my needing to work something through. She wasn't enough to work it through with. We were both into the situation so much that we couldn't almost help each other and what I was asking for was help from other people. But this whole idea about was it somewhat of an attention-getter too, like the person that just cries and cries and cries over a funeral. They cry some because it's grief and much ... I've always thought that it was because it was attention they got. This was their time to really get attention. So that there were all these phenomena that began to sprout up in the bomb that evolved that made it even scarier, because I began to analyze other ... what looked like peripheral things but which were equally important to me. And so I didn't know how to handle the bomb threat, I didn't know how to handle the fantasies about having a bomb thrown through the window and waking up flaming, half-flaming, dying ...


COUNSELOR: It really touched (inaudible) [scary way] (ph).


PATIENT: Yeah. Then when I said what I did, I didn't know how to handle the idea of was everything that I did just for attention? Could there be some other basis to it? It's really frightening when you have to look at yourself because I think the one thing that this book that I mentioned earlier did for me was it didn't put a judgment on the things you did. It wasn't good or bad. The things that I had always considered "bad," "no-nos" the things that Susan certainly considered "no-nos," he considers you have it, if that's the way you want to use it, that's ... use it that way. So that ... that's where the book helped me in certain respects, but the book didn't talk about attention getting. I'd like to read a book about "all you wanted to know about attention-getting and were always afraid to ask" or something. It didn't help me in that area. [0:43:18]


I often feel that Susan really doesn't like me as a person. She doesn't like my type of person, somebody that tries to get attention and is very verbal. I can't figure that out. But I know [let's have that] (ph) feeling and ... with some basis. We are quite different. She, in public, is very quiet. She handles things by becoming quieter. Conversely, I handle situations that I'm uncomfortable in by becoming louder, more talkative. And those kind of antagonize each other. Because when she is ... when she would like to be very quiet and kind of fade into the woodwork, here's her husband who she feels oftentimes is a family representative too, that he's over there getting louder and louder. Usually it's not so much loudness, now, as it is just monopolizing the conversation.


COUNSELOR: But does it feel like this is kind of a real representation of that - that somehow, she wanted to fade into the background and not say anything to anyone, and you wanted to stand up in church and say, "This happened and I'm scared and what can I do?" 


PATIENT: Right. That's exactly what I felt, is the fact that, fine, fading into the background is fine for her, but why does she have to impose that idea on me as the way to handle that situation? Why can't she just accept the fact that that's not the way I handle situations and say, "Okay, that's not the way he handles it." But no, she ... it's like sometimes still, before we go to a party, she'll say, "I don't know if you should talk about this and that." But interestingly enough, after our big blow-up on Sunday, I understood what she was saying. She was saying to me that I'm vulnerable in these areas. "Please don't bring them up." Now that I could ... now that's valid. I mean, you know, that's valid and I respect that. But for her to ... the way she always phrased it, I never could see that. The way she always phrased it is "Don't you dare talk about that because you're going to make an ass out of yourself if you do." Instead of ... it's interesting. I never ...


COUNSELOR: That's a big difference. [0:46:04]


PATIENT: There's a hell of a big difference because ... and then, I think that's what began to make ME understand the fact that this shifting the blame business is kind of a failure to really take a look at you. Gosh, I wish I really could make it neat and shift all the blame to ... for all my problems to everybody else. That's (inaudible) very comfortable. But it's not exactly the way it gets done. And I think that that's the one good thing that came out of that big argument was the fact that what she was saying was that she had not worked it out, and that she would rather me not have said anything about it. So then I could say, "I haven't worked it out either, but that's the way I have to work things out, and I'm sorry if the two conflict. What do we do if the two conflict?" And I guess we came up with the idea that we had to accept whatever the other person had to do to get it worked out. She feels, once again, very strongly my standing up in church was the Parr's (ph) family standing up in church. 


And that's an image that I think a lot of people have, the image I had. Until I was about eight or nine years old, I didn't think my mother had a brain because she always agrees with my father on EVERYTHING. I felt like he just had this kind of symbolic ... really, I thought it was a real button that he pushed and it kind of erased the blackboard in her mind and he would just write upon it. And he was that powerful. And I once told them that and of course they thought that that was quite funny. (inaudible at 0:48:11)


So I don't know how that will work out. But I know that I'm okay now. And Jacquelyn, I don't know when I say I'm okay if I'm okay because I put it out of my mind. You know, just in hopes that it will never happen again, or whether I'm okay because I've brought it up long enough to look at it. And when do you know? When do you know if you're okay on one of those or the other? One seems to be destructive, and the other one seems to be constructive. And see, that's the situation I'm working, I guess that's what hangs me up more than anything else is that one is good and one is bad. One is healthy and one is not healthy. One is black and one is white. 


COUNSELOR: It's (inaudible) because I kind of hear you saying, "I'm okay, it's gone. But if it comes back, that means I wasn't okay." 


PATIENT: Right. Right. 


COUNSELOR: It's like, "Okay, it's gone, now you're okay. Half an hour from now, I may be having to work on it again." But it's like, that isn't necessarily bad. At least that's what I sense very hard.


PATIENT: I guess it's because this is ... I'm opening up now, you see, and by opening up, I realize that I put a lot of things away too soon. I put a lot of things away before I even handle them at all much because I couldn't handle them. Like the business with my father and how I let everything he'd say go right into a neat little filing drawer with his name on it: "Father says". And most of the time didn't try to handle it in any way. Because the last statement in the "Father says," drawer is that "[You're all right.] (ph) He doesn't understand." [0:50:22]


And I'm scared of putting things away. The reading the impotence part of David Reuben's book made me realize that I have been pretty damn lucky not to be impotent with all of the things that I had martyred myself on like sex. And today, you were mentioning what if I precipitated or made moves toward sex. Makes me think even more that yeah, I've been sitting around because it's easy to sit around and you don't get hurt when somebody comes to you. But that's something that ...


COUNSELOR: Also (inaudible) if somebody, well, being more explicit than that, doesn't want to, then this immediately feels like a rejection as compared to the way she's feeling, is "I don't want to" and the way you're feeling is "I want to." But they don't happen to jibe at that moment. Like, it becomes more personal.


PATIENT: Yeah, when you say that it sounds very much like a test, doesn't it?


COUNSELOR: There's no out in some way if she does (inaudible) ...


PATIENT: Yeah. Right, there's no out. There's no out.


COUNSELOR: Is it possible for her not to want to and still not be hurting you? For that not to be a rejection?


PATIENT: Yeah, if I don't use it as a test. If I don't use it as a test. That's interesting, because ...


COUNSELOR: ... because then again, as a test, it's an "all or none" thing.


PATIENT: Yeah. That's very interesting. I miss a lot, because it is the "all or none" thing. You don't know how true that "all or none" statement is. It's all the way to a climax or none. And ...


COUNSELOR: You can't just give her a pat and (inaudible).


PATIENT: Right, and I think I would get ... I think I would have a lot more physical contact and a lot more affection if it weren't a test. (inaudible) it's helping. I'm getting to where I'm seeing myself in the whole perspective and ... that turns the world upside down for you. I can help ... I really feel that I can basically help other people. But I'm no good at being helped. I wasn't really good at being helped, but I think I'm getting better (chuckles) at being helped. [0:53:37]


(They get up from their chairs)


PATIENT: That's beautiful. See, I can't stop at 20 sessions. I'm just getting started. It's funny because I know Susan's therapy well enough to know that it's a very mutual type of give and take relationship there. And in a way ... I know that this may put pressure on you, and I'm glad you haven't asked me to take anything, I think what I really needed was to open myself up and maybe one of these days, there will be the chance for me to be therapeutic [to you] (ph) if nothing else you can get a toothache (inaudible). I can be a therapist. That's really helped me, to have that feeling. You're the first person I really didn't feel like ... I was imposing upon you. I kind of block out the idea that you come here in your own environment. That hasn't ... I haven't been able to handle that yet, and that you might have a good day or a bad day. Because you don't ... I haven't looked for it. It's a little bit funny, but truth helps.


COUNSELOR: It may even be true that you AREN'T (ph) imposing on me! 


PATIENT: I beg your pardon?


COUNSELOR: I may be true you AREN'T imposing on me! (chuckles)


PATIENT: Thank you.


END TRANSCRIPT
