TRANSCRIPT OF AUDIO FILE:
______________________________________________________________________________
BEGIN TRANSCRIPT:
(inaudible for first [00:00:09)
THERAPIST: Well I'm glad you're here.
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: It's always okay to send a check after too.
CLIENT: Okay, I didn't know that. I was like well -
THERAPIST: I'd rather have you here.
CLIENT: Okay. (laughs)
THERAPIST: Ideally, paying at the time of the session is typical -
CLIENT: Alright.
THERAPIST: but I'd rather have you here then not come.
CLIENT: Yeah. I always have that fear of showing up to say like the hairdresser and not being able to pay them. Kind of an awkward —
THERAPIST: I knew you were coming back.
CLIENT: (laughs) That's true. But, yeah, well I, um, I had a presentation—I had that class presentation this week. It went alright. I had put something on my slide that I had originally—like I remember talking to the teaching assistant—like he had told us that, like he talked about it with us, and it seemed very reasonable at the time. [00:01:10]
But then when the professor asked me, "So tell me again: what is this beautiful miracle that you're sighting?" and it was actually—I was describing it in terms of another phenomenon, you know. And I can see that the guy in my group—which I had previously done, which is sort of like judgmental and stuff—I found out from my friends who were with him in undergrad studies said he's a super-perfectionist.
But anyway, I'm up there and Jeff, of course, is looking at his watch; looking at the clock; and looking kind of distraught, and I'm just like, "Okay." So I didn't feel good about it. And the guy before me—the experimentalist—also he got, there was a lot of things on his slides that he didn't know about. [00:02:05]
So our presentation didn't go, um, as smoothly as planned, and (pause for .02 seconds) then I guess looking for reassurance I turned to Jeff, the perfectionist—didn't know he was a perfectionist until later that day—um, but I said, "Oh, I think we did alright," and he's like, "No. No, we didn't." And then he stormed off.
And I was just like—well, it's hard when you don't—I think we all just sort of know when we do good and -
THERAPIST: What do you feel like you didn't do well?
CLIENT: Well I just sort of feel like I could have been more prepared; I could've—like, you know—right before—right after the presentation when I was reading like, "Where in this paper does this sort of thing say, what, you know—about the importance of the end disappearing?" (ph)
THERAPIST: Umm. [00:03:08]
CLIENT: So later I read, um, (pause for .02 seconds) you know just one of their papers. And right underneath, they're talking about why the end disappears and they do this sum (ph), and then they explain why. And I'm like, "Why?" you know—and then I remember the teaching assistant told me—and, you know, I guess I got upset because like I just, I mean I put it up on the slide and it was fair game. I just—whether I didn't read, whether I didn't care, whether —.
THERAPIST: So someone asked you about it and you were unable to recall at that time.
CLIENT: Yeah. The professor asked about it, and um, you know, it's just sort of interesting because I sort of see that it's hard to read things from your research paper because each research paper is not very pedalogical. (ph) It's sort of like: this big fact, this big fact -
THERAPIST: Um hmm. [00:04:08]
CLIENT: and they don't—it's not very, well it's not easy to read.
THERAPIST: Right. Like a textbook, building on the -
CLIENT: Yeah, there's no building. It's more just (pause for .03 seconds) presenting everything to you like it's already been known or like (pause for .02 seconds) the past assumptions. There's no context really, unless you read like—you know, I mean of course there was context maybe in that field as they were building up -
THERAPIST: Um hmm.
CLIENT: so like if you were familiar in that area, you know, you would say, "Aha! Of course—it's great that that end disappears because now we don't have to worry about what level energy level it's at when we do this experiment, or what temperature it's at." 
And so it's hard for me—I sort of see—like I don't naturally have a context. I mean, I think we were talking last week sort of the framing, sort of getting the big picture to calm all the little thoughts. (pause for .03 seconds) [00:05:18]
I sometimes—I have that problem of not prioritizing. It's a real difficulty for me, um, and, um,—yeah, I think that's something that mentally and eventfully I suffer from. I guess it's all just sort of mentally (ph), it's prioritizing. I will prioritize my work over sleep and um, my health.
I was actually—I think Jeremy got really upset when I was staying up late Tuesday. I didn't even—I did go to bed at about 1:30 but I did it on the sofa so I could wake up at 6:00 am and have my ten alarms go off and not wake him up. But I think it kind of like made him—like he was distant from me. [00:6:12]
I was just really exhausted and I was trying to get my homework done, trying to do—I think it was really just—every other week when homework's due, it's just—I could do it right away but I sort of have (laughs) have this philosophy that the amount of time that you put in versus what you get out is avsentonic. (ph) (laughs)
So I kind of, like I said, sort of put it off. And um, you know, so it's just interesting—cause yesterday I came home; I got my hair done; and that's something to talk about in another sense, so it's kind of a social anxiety situation with that, but I just came home and I just sort of—it's interesting because to actually show your affections, and it seemed to me that he felt more loved when I was actively showing my affections rather than just trying to survive and hand in my homework. [00:07:32]
THERAPIST: Um hmm.
CLIENT: And in one sense I got frustrated cause it's like, well, you know, I can't be affectionate and pay attention to you 99 percent of the time when there's homework. And I, you know, but then I also realize that sometimes just (pause for .04 seconds) it's just really interesting. And it could also just be with him. Maybe he's had a rough day at work and not to have warmth, which is usually myself. [00:08:10]
I don't know. It's something that—it's just sort of like, maybe I do the same thing to him. Like if he's not warm, then I'm like, "Oh, oh. Why are you sad?" or "Why are you frustrated?" (pause for .05 seconds) But I guess that's just sort of natural.
And when I got my hair done it was actually—I sort of had this feeling that it was going to be the more expensive process cause they have a glaze and that's just sort of like a toner and a single process, which is $60, which is not bad in terms of salons, but it's not chump change. And um, then the lady -
THERAPIST: Is this the same place you usually go? You're familiar with it? [00:09:02]
CLIENT: Yeah, and so I sort of expected that. And she chose a really nice color. I really like my hairdresser. But then they invited me to a complementary makeover just because when you dye your hair, it gets kind of messy, so—and then the lady, I was talking to her and she was like, "Oh, well let's start from the very beginning," and she took off my makeup and then when she put on makeup, like it was nice but she didn't do a very good job at concealing some of the old scars, the acne scars or acne marks. 
I started to get very upset cause I get very embarrassed by my acne scars. And like, you know, it starts to get expensive if she's like, "Oh, you know, I recommend this product and that product," and a couple of them are really nice, but I'm just like—you know—I'm already thinking: Okay. Well, I had this process done to my hair. I got it cut and blow-dried. She's recommending shampoos for me, and then there's this makeup lady. And um, then she didn't even conceal my face very right, so I feel very self-conscious. [00:10:24]
And then so when I go to take off the robe that they give you so you don't get hair dye on you or whatever, hair scrapings, I put concealer on my face and I feel better, and she's like—cause she was asking me what makeup products do you want, and I was like, "Oh, well, I'll just take this and this," and she's like, "Whoa. Are you even interested in this other eye shadow?" and I was like, "Well, um, " I was like, "Yeah, but—of course I was. It was very nice but I'm thinking this is getting expensive, $13 a pop. [00:11:02]
I was like, "Well, no. My boyfriend gives me an allowance and we're trying to save," and she's like, "Oh. For a new house?" And actually we are kind of saving up for many things, a house eventually, but you know it's just not good to spend lots of money. I already bought stuff, which was my original $200 allowance last week, so I'm not trying to like spend a lot of money here but obviously I was spending a lot of money. 
Then I get to the front desk and she's saying, "Oh, these are the shampoos that were suggested for you," and she starts ringing them up. And I was like, "No. I don't need this." She's like, "Oh, well, um, why not?" you know and she's like, "Our computer says that you haven't bought any in a while," and I was just, "Well, I don't really need it." [00:11:59]
And she's like, "Okay. Well, maybe I could suggest a different styling product," and I was like, "No. These two shampoo and conditioner will be fine." And finally, I didn't have cash for a tip and she's like, "Oh you can get to an ATM," but then I sort of escaped and I was worried about how I put concealer on over my face. And here I—I mean after I got my hair done I was very happy, but it was all these new sort of random variables.
But the good thing was; I had not washed my hands after I had got off that (ph) and up until I ate lunch, and really just had to—oh, and there was a thing where I had dye on my hand and it was orange-reddish. I looked down at first and I was sitting next to this lady that was plucking her eyebrows, or plucking God-knows-what, and I just sort of started freaking out: like where did this red come from? Where did this orange—and then I was like, cause I was trying to text someone. So I was texting with my pinkies and wondering if I, you know, and then I eventually saw that it was—wait a minute—I remember this dye got on my paperwork and I compared my mark, the sort of swap of red on my thumb to the paper. [00:13:20]
Then once I got outside I clearly sort of realized, cause it was bright reddish-orange and if it would've been blood—like I've had enough acne scars to know what blood looks like (laughs) and it's not bright orange, orange-reddish. So then I just, I washed it off when I went to the bathroom, but -
THERAPIST: So when you left to go get your hair cut, what did you plan on purchasing that day?
CLIENT: Um, well I planned on getting around the hundred dollars for the blow-dry, the cut and the process. [00:14:00]
THERAPIST: So you wanted the services but you didn't want any stuff.
CLIENT: Well, I was hoping to skip by on the stuff.
THERAPIST: Um hmm.
CLIENT: And then she did bring up a good point that the shampoos that I was using would strip the color -
THERAPIST: Umm.
CLIENT: um, and that I should go for something more delicate for my hair. So I agreed with that point, that you know I don't want my freshly dyed hair—so I, you know, (pause for .03 seconds) I was thinking about getting a conditioner—
THERAPIST: Umm.
CLIENT: but that's about it. Um, but then I realized; oh, well I could need a blush.
THERAPIST: Umm. You could need one—to please who?
CLIENT: Myself? 
THERAPIST: Okay.
CLIENT: (laughs) Cause the kind of blush I bought wasn't doing well. Um, I actually—I mean the exact color, like—I mean, I was sort of curious cause I was frustrated with blush. That's one thing I did tell her I was interested in when she did my makeup.
THERAPIST: Umm. [00:15:05]
CLIENT: I was like, "I'm just really interested -" I said, "The number one thing I'm interested in is doing blush cause I have no idea and, you know, me just buying it at the store like, I waste money by picking up—even though it's Maybelline—it's just not, it doesn't show up on my face. So that's like $7 down the pot cause it doesn't work on me.
THERAPIST: Umm.
CLIENT: Even though I like this other blush that was $30 and lasted me two months that did work but I was trying to save money and I just, you know, so I thought; okay, I do need a lesson on blush so this will be good.
THERAPIST: Umm.
CLIENT: Like I was open, and I was thinking about it before I got there, (pause for .02 seconds) but the rest of the things like—they were awfully pushy.
THERAPIST: Umm. Yeah, it sounds like they were, almost bullying you. [00:16:02]
CLIENT: Yeah (laughs) and it's just like -
THERAPIST: What were you feeling when you were kind of, going back and forth with them?
CLIENT: Well, I was just like (pause for .02 seconds) I felt pressured, kind of like the peer pressure; like you don't want to let them down and it's hard to say no, and when you say no they'd say, "Oh, well come on." It feels like: well, no means no. 
THERAPIST: Um hmm.
CLIENT: It's not like a, like a scary thing, a dangerous thing but it is—like I felt really guilty cause I was like, you know I'm supposed to not be spending. I already spent my allowance. This is supposed to be extra, and, you know, (pause for .03 seconds). And I later told Jeremy—I didn't tell him how much it wound up being—but I did tell Jeremy about the shampoo at least, and later about the blush.
And he liked the blush. He's, "Oh, it looks more natural." And I said it—and it will last me literally for years, and so he's like, "Well that's good." (laughs) And he's like, "Well I just bought a whole lot of buffalo for us for fall," cause his friend imports meat. And I was like, "Well, comforting me with you spending money actually does comfort me." (laughs) 
But, I mean, I guess, um, (pause for .03 seconds) yeah, I guess I just felt sort of guilty cause there are things that I—I mean I hate to feel pressured, you know, like I'm letting them down or, you know. And when I wasn't so thrilled with the makeup and I sort of started freaking out about my acne scars, like the lady was like, "Oh, well, you know, blah, blah, blah," and I'm just, "Oh, no, no. I've got to cover this up." [00:17:52]
And I told her that I generally like more concealer and she's like, "No. Just stick with yours." And I was just like—I'm trying—I don't want her to think that she didn't do a good job but I'm honestly not happy.
THERAPIST: But you aren't able to say that.
CLIENT: Yeah. I mean, I just said that I generally use more concealer, and then once I put more concealer on, um, and I was like, "Oh, thank you so much. I was just, you know, I just had to put some more concealer on, but I like what you did. Thank you so much." So (pause for .04 seconds) it's interesting how like, this time I didn't freak out about: oh, she's using these brushes and moisturizers on other people's faces -
THERAPIST: Umm.
CLIENT: I didn't really worry about that. Um, I think—and it sort of brings into context—maybe the worrying about, like maybe it all sort of roots down to social anxiety in a sense. The jars -
THERAPIST: You were being more anxious about something else instead? [00:19:05]
CLIENT: Yeah. Yeah. (laughs) I mean, cause it was really a concrete—and I really see that when I have like, I'm anxious about other things, I don't worry so much about germs.
THERAPIST: Good. It sounds like you were more focused on: were you being upsetting to someone? Were you disappointing Jeremy by spending more money than you guys had agreed upon? Were you disappointing the makeup person by not liking what she did or by not taking her suggestions on what to purchase? Were you upsetting, you know, somebody else—the hair person because you didn't want to buy all the products they suggested.
In the hierarchy of what is anxiety-provoking for you, I wonder if having someone mad at you or disappointed with you is worse than contamination of germs or disease. [00:20:00]
CLIENT: Yeah. I think the (pause for .02 seconds) Yeah, and I think it is a lot cause my sister and I were talking. She actually really liked her gift; it made me happy cause Jeremy and I, we gave her a birthday gift. It was makeup, cause she's obsessed with makeup right now, which is part of the reason why she got me obsessed with nail polish. (laughs)
Uh, which isn't a problem because they're affordable and it's under control. Jeremy sort of, he knows, and I know that I can't get more polish than I can put on. But anyway, he—(pause for .02 seconds) my sister and I were talking and we see that our mom sort of lays a lot of guilt and a lot of like, kind of emotional abuse: like if you don't do what I think is right, then I am going to make you feel bad for it. [00:20:57]
THERAPIST: Umm. How does she make you feel bad?
CLIENT: Like either not talking, or just saying something that's mean, and it's not—I mean, she can be very supportive when like, but she's not very understanding. You know when you do something—say like when I moved in with Jeremy, she's telling me, "No. You can't do it," um, you know, "Why don't you guys just—you guys need to get married first."
THERAPIST: Umm.
CLIENT: And, "I don't approve of this." You know, she was crying and then later, when I showed up, she said she was depressed. And it was like, you know: Here I am, like flying out to Florida to just basically say I'm sorry for making a decision for myself that I think is right.
Um, you know, I mean, and of course I—you know I was spiteful, but I'm, like, I can't imagine like not—my sister, she got upset with my mom. She sort of tried to allege that my sister's not in pain or just doesn't know how to get over pain or is just sort of addicted to being in pain. My sister just stopped talking to my mom. She was like, "I can't do this. This is poison to me. I want to get better. I want to have kids." [00:22:17]
It's kind of weird because—I would go back and forth in sort of my sympathy and sort of like just wondering, "Are they really—is she really in pain or she just doesn't know how to be not in pain? And how come, with the surgery, she wasn't skipping (ph)?
THERAPIST: Umm.
CLIENT: You know, and what is, like,—you know, like, and so I started to realize that maybe it's a double-layered thing. She doesn't—she's not used to dealing with moderate pain but now she's currently in pain, severe pain, so that definitely makes her unable to—you know. [00:23:00]
But she needs to work on—once she deals with her major acute pain and her labral hip tear—that, you know, she'll—she needs to learn how to be happy, or be happy with the result of getting a surgery say. But, you know, we were just talking about how there's a lot of shame that her and I feel, and for just things that, you know this feeling of guilt—yeah, I spent too much money. I was a little bit frivolous with the money so I feel that that's kind of embarrassing cause Jeremy will go, "Well why are you spending money?"
THERAPIST: Umm.
CLIENT: And "That could go to better things rather than frivolous purchases." And I don't want to look like Jeremy's mom who goes out and buys Louis Vuitton purses, and doesn't have any savings and is almost broke, even though she's getting $200,000 in bonuses over the past few years. [00:24:07]
THERAPIST: Um hmm.
CLIENT: So, I mean, I'm not buying Louis Vuitton purses; I'm buying hair products and I do it, like, well if it was hair products it should last me four months, so (pause for .02 seconds) so I think of it as an investment if that was justifying, and that's what Jeremy told me. He's like, "I don't care. I use Bumble and Bumble."
THERAPIST: Umm.
CLIENT: I mean, of course, it takes him a year to go through a bottle of Bumble and Bumble, but it's not, you know, I guess I just feel bad because I want to be able to save, and I want to be able to not just spend money. We spent lots of money on decorating, but, yeah, to make people happy and make them think well of me—yeah, that is important to me. [00:24:58]
THERAPIST: Yeah, and it's interesting because the problem at the salon is that you had—it sounds like you had Jeremy and the salon people, and you couldn't please them both.
CLIENT: (laughs) Yeah.
THERAPIST: Um, and I'm wondering where Janet fits into that equation.
CLIENT: (laughs) (pause for .03 seconds) Well -
THERAPIST: What would have made you happy? (pause for .03 seconds) If you weren't trying to please the salon people by buying or please Jeremy by not buying? Where are you in that?
CLIENT: Well, Janet really wanted to get—well, I really wanted to get my hair done cause I was feeling just not, a little bit under the weather. I just wasn't feeling pretty—I needed a change or something. I guess I get that way. I start picking on myself.
I know this is other problems but it is true. (laughs) 
THERAPIST: It was something that you wanted.
CLIENT: Yep, yep.
THERAPIST: You wanted to go get your hair done.
CLIENT: I did, and um -
THERAPIST: And you—and there's no guilt in that, cause that felt like what you really wanted. [00:26:02]
CLIENT: And that's what was planned. It's cause I'm going to a wedding and I had roots showing, and I wanted to look nice for the wedding, and that's what I wanted. I also was thinking about getting a conditioner because my current conditioner, like I notice my hair has been a chia pet, (laughs) and I'm tired of waking up like a chia pet. I want soft and silky hair.
Um, and I realize last time that I had used the conditioner that she suggested—or the line, Living Proof—that my hair was actually silkier and nice, and so I was thinking about getting a conditioner, um, because um, you know, and I had gotten the shampoo that was—I saw that said color, um, color-friendly, or for color-treated hair.
THERAPIST: Umm.
CLIENT: And I was like, "Oh. I like Aveeno." I mean, you know, and I was like I'm saving money. I noticed that there wasn't much affect on my hair. I was just sort of a less chia pet. [00:27:07]
So I was thinking of, yeah, I think the blush and the conditioner would have—and the hair done—so I was like well these are things I have been looking for, and I was looking for a nice blush because the current one I was using had, you know, I wasn't happy with it. I was thinking about, you know, I could go to CVS and just try on another one, but I may as well just learn actually how to put on blush. But I think what didn't make me happy was actually someone doing my makeup and making my acne apparent, cause I work so hard to try to cover it up. You know, she said, "Oh, let's start from a fresh thing," and I guess I was thinking, "Oh. She's really good at makeup. If I say natural, but no foundation, maybe she knows how to blend concealer better," or like (pause for .03 seconds). [00:28:12]
But I guess, you know, she's like, "Oh, we're going for more of the natural look," and like I guess each zit for me is a very personal thing (laughs) and needs to be covered up.
THERAPIST: So when she said, "Let's start fresh," what was your gut reaction?
CLIENT: 'Oh my gosh, she's going to take off my makeup and my zits are going to be out there, exposed. I hope no one important is in the room.'
THERAPIST: Um hmm.
CLIENT: That was my gut reaction.
THERAPIST: Would you rather she hadn't taken it off?
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: What stopped you from being able to say no?
CLIENT: (pause for .06 seconds) Well, because I was just, (pause for .04 seconds) cause I didn't want to—I guess I was curious, like of what she could do. Maybe she could do better with my face.
THERAPIST: Umm. [00:29:03]
CLIENT: And I was hoping that my face wasn't that bad that it wouldn't be embarrassing, but I was embarrassed. Um, (pause for .03 seconds) because (pause for .02 seconds) yeah, and I guess—she's like, "Oh. Your concealer did a really good job." And I was just like—I looked at her and she's like, "Well, I'm not saying that, you know, your face is bad. It was just really impressive."
THERAPIST: Umm.
CLIENT: (pause for .02 seconds) And, yeah I guess -
THERAPIST: It felt like a critique.
CLIENT: Yeah, it did. And it's just—and I told her in the very beginning that, you know, I've been breaking out and it's frustrating. But I've recently switched my birth control. Why I was telling her this—and then I felt kind of self-conscious, like what kind of weirdo does she think I am? [00:29:57]
But then I realized that women often do tell each other that: oh, they're on this kind of pill to clear up their face. For me, I just felt like after her saying that that I was just like—I don't know. There was part of me that—yeah, I think -
THERAPIST: So you were critiquing yourself for a lot of things.
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: And you felt uncomfortable about exposing your skin.
CLIENT: Um hmm.
THERAPIST: You felt uncomfortable it exposed, sort of, this information that you felt like she responded badly to.
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: And, um, you felt like you couldn't say no.
CLIENT: Yeah. (pause for .03 seconds) I mean eventually I did have to say no, and I was almost near crying because, like, I just like (pause for .02 seconds) I just felt so pressured.
THERAPIST: It doesn't sound like a very nice experience at all. You were hoping to go get pampered, have your hair done, feel good.
CLIENT: Yeah, and then I -
THERAPIST: It doesn't end up working out that way.
CLIENT: I mean, after I had my hair done, I was really happy. And then once I had my makeup done, it was just (pause for .03 seconds). Yeah, I expected to come out like, oh, even more pampered like a movie star. Instead it was not like a movie star. I was like, "Oh my goodness. I wasted time when I could've done research. I'm supposed to make a poster." [00:31:16]
And then the whole rest of the day I couldn't really focus cause I was so like into, "Oh, my face." I was just very self-conscious so I really didn't get much work done.
THERAPIST: I wonder what would have made you feel like you could have set your own boundaries, said what you really wanted to say yes to and what you really wanted to say no to.
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: What would you need to feel, sort of, permission to do that?
CLIENT: (pause for .03 seconds) Well, I think really telling myself that, you know, sort of like coming to terms with the situation. She's a business woman and she gets money for things that she sells, and I'm a customer, so of course she wants to get me to buy them.
THERAPIST: Right. [00:32:13]
CLIENT: But it's not a necessity for me to buy them even though she spent the time; that's part of her job, it's the business part. And you know, I don't have—there's no obligation for me to buy. That was not in the word 'complementary', and I think I need to -
THERAPIST: Very much not in the word.
CLIENT: (laughs) I think I need to tell myself that I'm not obligated to make these people happy. Um, (pause for .03 seconds) and I think that's—
I see that in my group dynamics like (pause for .02 seconds) you know, I wanted, like I later sent out an e-mail to my group, um, you know cause I talked to the teaching assistant and I said, "Oh, I'm so sorry that I messed this up. You spent so much time," and he was like, "No, no, no. It's fine. Don't worry about it." And he was just smiling and happy, and I was like, "Oh, well, anyway thank you so much."
And I walked off, and I told the group and said that I talked to the teaching assistant, and he said we did fine. 
THERAPIST: Um hmm.
CLIENT: And, you know, we can work out the kinks for the next presentation, and overall we did cause a lot of discussion and curiosity. So I sent out this reassurement (sic) e-mail; cause I was like, let's have some group enthusiasm. I just felt some sort of obligation cause my part of the presentation didn't go so smoothly, to sort of smooth it out, and no one e-mailed me back.
And it was like, this is typical physics men. They don't have any—I mean, especially which is, this is one of the reasons why I want to get out of the science field is that people are just awkward. 
THERAPIST: Umm. [00:34:00]
CLIENT: And I try and make them happy, and try and like reassure them or deal with them, and they just—I mean -
THERAPIST: You're not obligated to make them happy, just like you're not obligated to make purchases on a complementary facial.
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: That's important recognition. What is your obligation here? And where are you going beyond, feeling pressure beyond what your obligations in a situation are.
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: Whether it is social, or you know, work-related.
CLIENT: Yeah. And it's really interesting, like I'll go to the airport and smell all of the perfumes and spray some on me, and I won't feel any obligation because I'm like, "Ah. These are expensive," or like, "Oh, but I'm curious," or I'm bored.
But I think cause I see these people. I go to the salon like every three months and so, you know, it's—um, I sort of see it in my interest to keep a good impression and it didn't—but I need to realize that it doesn't matter in the big picture. [00:35:03]
THERAPIST: And buying everything they recommend isn't necessary for them to have a good impression of you.
CLIENT: Yeah. 
THERAPIST: You come. You pay for the services that you want or need. It's not that you're walking out without paying your bill.
CLIENT: (laughs) Yeah.
THERAPIST: That would leave a bad impression. 
CLIENT: Or like leave, or start a fight.
THERAPIST: Yeah. I mean, saying no is not being rude. And that, I think, maybe I'm wondering if that's part of what you're feeling to: if you're not taking them up on everything they suggest or offer, is that also somewhat rude. Cause I know you're very conscious of being kind to others, being polite to others.
CLIENT: Yeah. (sneezes)
THERAPIST: Bless you.
CLIENT: Oh it's fall, it's fall. Yeah, and I think with Jeremy's mom I've gotten a little bit better. Jeremy just, you know, it gets to a certain point where it's just; no, you don't have to. I guess it's because she gave me a lot of experiences or opportunities to learn how to say no.
But, um, but yeah, I think that's something I do need to work on: is being able to say no and not feeling guilty; to feel like I'm upsetting them. You're right, I mean, and I guess that's sort of seeing the big picture. Seeing what is a good customer? A good customer comes, pays, is polite. But it's not someone who buys their products and does everything that they offer. [00:35:46]
THERAPIST: Yeah.
CLIENT: (pause for .04 seconds) Yeah, and I guess, yeah, (pause for .05 seconds) I think that sort of, and I think that, yeah, same with being a good daughter doesn't mean doing everything that my mom thinks is right.
THERAPIST: You are allowed to make decisions for yourself. You are an adult: an adult customer, an adult daughter, an adult girlfriend, an adult lab partner.
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: You are allowed to decide for yourself what feels right -
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: and have permission to do. (pause for .03 seconds) We're going to wrap up there for today. We're on for two weeks.
CLIENT: All right. I will be back I believe in November?
THERAPIST: So I have us for—two weeks is Friday the 26th.
CLIENT: Okay. Awesome.
THERAPIST: So we skip next week, which is the 19th, then you come back.
CLIENT: Let me just check that. [00:38:02]
END TRANSCRIPT
