<font size="4"><b>Chapter Seven</b></font>
[p. <i>[253]</i>]

Life did not get easier. But living did.


As a child, I had been connected to the earth, following my
grandfather and his mule across the newly plowed field, dozing in
the afternoon sun in the grass outside the barn, imagining I felt the
earth turn a degree on its axis. It was a connection I lost later, with
living in cities and breathing artificial air. But while it lasted, it gave
me the peculiar ability of knowing when it started to rain, even if I
was deep in the bowels of some windowless building. I could feel it,
some difference in the static charge of the air, like a ghost touching
my cheek. "It's raining," I would say, and people would look up, surprised,
and go to a window: Why, so it is.


So it was with the changes in my brain that marked my first
steady steps toward health, starting in the fall of 1990. The changes
began in a space no bigger than a molecule.


Every morning, I held between one and three green-and-white
capsules in my hand. Every morning, I swallowed that dose, and a
few billion molecules of fluoxetinean intricate array of interlocking
carbon, hydrogen, sodium, oxygen, fluorine, and chlorine atoms
made their way into my brain. Once there, they found their way to
sites on the ends of particular neurons whose function was to absorb
a neurotransmitter called serotonin. There, like a key fitting into a
lock, the fluoxetine molecules slid into a spot on the neuron normally
reserved for serotonin. That blocked serotonin molecules from being
reabsorbed, increasing the number available in the synapse. As
Satchel Paige might have put it, this was a pill that jangled my brain
juices.

[p. <i>254</i>]

The effect was not magical. I was the product of the same environment,
with the same values, the same IQ, the same capacity for
emotion. The difference was that I felt <i>sturdy</i>. Resilient. Not happy,
not blissed out, not numb, not hyper. Just: myself.


It took a while. At first, I felt like a wanderer on a storm-damaged
landscape, seeing things that looked familiar but oddly askew.
I kept trying to retrace my steps, and finding old paths blocked, or
twisting off in new directions.


I still hoped for another chance with Thomasand, for a brief
period, that seemed possible. We saw each other frequently for the
following year, and by the fall of 1991, the subject of living together
had been broached again. Thomas suggested that I move in after
spending Christmas with him and the kids at his parents' in Montreal.
Some things about our relationship seemed very different.
There was less tension between us, which I welcomed, not realizing
that tension had been a measure of our connection. The responsibilities
of two children, which had overwhelmed me when I first knew
Thomas, now seemed taxing but manageable. Partly that was because
I was healthier and more self-confident; partly it was because the
children were growing up.


Peter, now eight, was continuing his lordly odyssey through
childhood. Anything was fun to him, even lying on our backs on the
front lawn at dusk and counting "butt bugs," which was his name
for fireflies. Melissa, now eleven, hovered on the cusp of adolescence,
a bud about to burst, a child of incipient beauty and strong passions.
One night when everyone else was outThomas away on business,
Peter sleeping over at a friend's houseshe and I sat out on the deck
long after dark talking about school, and then I heard her voice in
the darkness saying, "I am happy now, just being here with you."

[p. <i>255</i>]

"Me, too," I said. And it was true: somehow, we had become
friends.


And more: I felt, for the first time, like a parent, or at least the
way I imagined a parent might feel. Melissa and Peter had become
partly "mine" somehowthough I kept reminding myself this was
not true, that not only did I have no legal connection to their father,
but no one could replace their true mother. I knew this, and yet I
was connected to those children in some way that made it okay to
feel delighted when Melissa got her first phone call from a boy or
when Peter's reading scores improved. Thomas's children had
dragged me, kicking and screaming, out of my self-absorption; at
times, I had bitterly resented them. Now it felt quite different. And
they needed me: one night, Melissa mentioned a detail about their
mother's death that Peter had probably heard before but, being so
young, had never really absorbed. Peter got very quiet. Then he
began to sob. Melissa, uncharacteristically, did not speak to him; I
realized she was struggling with her own emotions. I went over to
Peter and sat down on the kitchen floor beside where he was standing,
leaning against the refrigerator. Without saying anything, he
crawled into my lap and curled himself into a ball and continued to
sob. I put my arms around him. We sat that way for a long time.


Later that night, as he was climbing into his bunk bed, he said
something stunning: "I have said goodbye to a lot of people to be
only eight years old." It was one of those mind-blowing assessments
that children can come up with. I wanted to say, "Well, you won't
have to say goodbye to me," but I didn't. I suspected that might not
be true.


Things between me and Thomas were not right. It was ironic,
considering how hard I had worked to get healthy, but it seemed to

[p. <i>256</i>]

The way it happened, then, was slow and, in the end, bitterly
comic. It started with a fight over my bad driving on New Year's
Day 1992, on our way home from Montreal. Over the next six
months, he grew surly and distant. There were late-night phone calls
he did not explain, mysterious "nights off" I feared to question. <i>You
just have to trust him</i>, I told myself, though my instincts were going
off like fire alarms. I avoided thought with nonstop activity, which
was easy to do: Thomas had gradually relinquished many day-to-day
decisions to me. I planned menus for the kids, took them shopping,
went to parent-teacher conferences when he was out of town; I even
made plans for the family vacation, a trip to South America Thomas
and the kids had talked about for a year. Every day, Thomas became
more of a stranger. Yet only once did I venture to broach the subject
of our disintegrating relationship.


"So you are leaving me, then," he said flatly.


"No," I said, frustrated. "I'm saying that we have to talk." And
then each of us waited for the other to say what was waiting to be
said, and neither of us had the courage.


In June 1992, Thomas told me he had realized he was interested
in someone else and wanted to "take a break." The trip to South
America had been planned for the following month. I'd made the
hotel reservations, planned for time off from work, arranged the complicated
airline itinerary. Who was going to use my ticket? I asked

[p. <i>257</i>]

The travel agent had been in the office when Thomas came by to
make the switch, but she hadn't realized the significance of what had
happened. Now she looked like she was about to cry. She kept saying,
"But he seemed so <i>nice</i>," Then I remembered that the tickets had
been bought on my American Express card. Thomas had paid me for
all of them; I was short of cash, and he had agreed to let me owe him
for my ticket for the time being. Now, as far as American Express
was concerned, these tickets were still mine. Could I cancel the
fourth ticket? I asked. Regretfully, the agent said no; I couldn't cancel
one ticket without voiding the whole transaction.


"Fine," I said. I was angrier than I had ever been in my life. "Cancel
the whole thing. Can you do that?" She nodded. I turned around
to leave. And then I thought of Peter and Melissa, and I couldn't
do it.


"Never mind," I said to the agent, who looked relieved. "Just
leave a message at Mr. McCrary's office saying that his companion's
ticket has been canceled, by me. Just tell him that." She nodded; she
understood.


It was then a few minutes past six, the agency's closing time, and
the plane was to leave around ten the next morning. By the time I
got home an hour later, there were four or five messages from
Thomas on my answering machine, each one more apoplectic than
the one before. It would take him at least twelve hours, I thought, to
reach someone at the agency and figure things out. In the meantime,

[p. <i>258</i>]

After that, there was little to say. He apologized; he said he
wanted to remain friends. I hung up on him. I was so angry I did
not even go back to his house to get my belongings, much less say
goodbye to the kids. For a while, I wanted to kill him. It seemed
odd, this desire to kill someone I had loved, but I seriously considered
it. I thought I could get away with pleading temporary insanity.
With my psychiatric history and the statement from American
Express (which had by then thoughtfully sent me a receipt for the
other woman's ticket, just for my records), what jury would convict
me? Whatever was not fury was grief. I missed the kids. I dreamed
about them, fragments in which I held Peter in my arms, or I heard
Melissa, laughing delightedly at some joke. Eventually, I wrote them
letters of goodbye.


"If I ever have a little boy, I would like him to be like you," I
wrote to Peter. To Melissa, I said I wanted to be honest: I remembered
our fights, and I was sure she did, toobut I wanted her to
know that that night we had spent talking on the deck, just the two
of us, had made me happy, that I had valued my connection with her
all the more because I had thought we would never achieve it. And
then I mailed the letters; it was the best I could do.


At times, some old depressive thought would emerge: <i>There must
be something wrong with me, or he couldn't have treated me like this</i>. But
increasingly, I found those thoughts muscled aside by a more realistic
view. He had treated me badlybut I had allowed it to happen.
For the first time, the end of a relationship did not bring on an orgy

[p. <i>259</i>]

Even so, the line got blurred. There were still times of anxiety,
weeks when my thoughts were despairing and traveled in slow, plodding
circles. At such times, Eleanor sometimes advised me to
increase my dosage of Prozac for a few weeks, up to perhaps forty or
even sixty milligrams a day from the usual twenty. But as time
passed, she advised me to simply wait it out.


One day, walking past an art supply store near my apartment, I
impulsively went in and bought a notebook of sketching paper, a
handful of soft lead pencils, a sharpener and an eraser. It was a feeling
I hadn't had since childhood, needing to put lines on paper. I started
to get up early in the morning so that I could draw before work. I
experimented with shapes and color; I tried to capture the line of my
cat's body with just two or three pencil strokes. Words crept into
those pages, but words were now only of passing importance. In the
past, I would have endlessly explained and justified things to myself.
Now I just drew. Loneliness was a cat asleep in an empty bed, my
own face in a mirror, the dim bulk of an armoire in a shadowy room
at four a.m. The images bypassed everything else. Drawing helped
me feel.


Depression, as I well knew, did not consist merely in feeling sad;
it was often heralded by the absence of feeling. My sketchbooks
became a kind of diary, a daily self-monitoring device which helped
me guard against sliding into that numbness. It was also a guard
against self-absorption. Drawing required <i>seeing</i>, which required

[p. <i>260</i>]

And slowlyvery slowlyI began to see things with some
objectivity. I even found a certain kind of black humor in the way
things had ended with Thomas. It had been a spectacular way to get
dumped. Thomas believed that anything worth doing was worth
doing well, and I had to admit that in the end he had lived up to his
credo. As time passed, I began to think the story through, to imagine
telling itenhancing certain details to make it better, the way
Southerners have always told stories, with a certain poetic license. "I
had a lover once who left me for another woman," I would say, "and
he took her to South America on my American Express Gold Card."
It wasn't even that far from being true.


But Thomas would always defy all my attempts to neatly summarize
our affair. It had been a complex, brutal thing; through him I
had learned an important lesson, which is that intelligence, violence,
and compassion can coexist easily in the same person. He had saved
my life by recognizing the severity of my depression and taking me
to the hospital when he did; he had helped me reclaim my life by
leading me to books that helped me to understand the enemy I was
facing. He had helped me face some agonizing truths about myself,
had helped me stand when doing that seemed impossible. He had
also savaged my self-esteem, over and over, with a kind of verbal cruelty
I'd never encountered before. He had betrayed me. And he had
taught me a great deal about my capacity to tolerate hurt, abuse, and
betrayal. I would never again be shocked at some woman's complicity
in an unhealthy relationship; I would never again be shocked to

[p. <i>261</i>]

But the main thing I took away from that was simple. <i>Next time</i>,
I told myself, <i>I'm going to find a man who will be good to me</i>.


At work, I had moved from covering federal court to a spot on
the metro staff's Projects team. All during that tumultuous summer
and the breakup with Thomas, I was doing research on teenage gunshot
victims. For several weeks, I rode with D.C. ambulance crews,
roaming the city until all hours, seeing a procession of drunks and
sick people and, of course, young men lying in pools of blood on the
sidewalk. It always seemed to be three a.m. at those shooting scenes,
and there always seemed to be the same crowd therethe same
blank-eyed teenagers, the same plainclothes detectives, the same
small children dancing in and out of the adults. Some of the ambulance
crews wore bulletproof vests; there had been instances, they
told me, where the shooter was lurking in those crowds, making sure
his victim was dead, and the marksmanship of these guys was notoriously
bad. The nightly scenes of chaos and tragedy took me, if only
briefly, out of my own head and away from my own troubles, and
they matched the disordered life I was leading. I slept at odd hours,
watching rented videos until dawn, eating cold pizza for breakfast at
noon. It was a brutal assignment, but it led me to a story about a
young teenager's shooting and its aftermath, which soon absorbed
me; later, my editors would nominate it for a Pulitzer Prize.


One particularly horrific night, we picked up a woman who had
stumbled onto the Anacostia Freeway into the path of a car. As the
paramedics struggled to load her into the ambulance and avoid four

[p. <i>262</i>]

It was two a.m. before the Washington Hospital Center helicopter
came and took her away, long past the <i>Post</i>'s last news deadline.
I went home and immediately poured myself a stiff Scotch.
Then I sat in the dark living room while the liquor crept into my
veins, and I had another drink, and after a while my hands stopped
shaking and the mental image of what I had seen faded a bit from my
brain. When I went to bed, the sky was growing light.


I woke up in midafternoon with my whole body feeling sore. It
wasn't the flu, I knew; it was stressand a wicked hangover.


It wasn't the first. I'd had lots of hangovers that summer. Usually
I didn't even keep Scotch in the house, but that had changed too, a
few weeks before: a swift jolt of Scotch after a night with the ambulance
crews was much more relaxing, and a lot more efficient, than
sipping a glass of white wine. But this time, shocked by my experience
of the night before, I realized that, once again, I had started
misusing alcohol to cope with stress.


<i>This is really nuts</i>, I thought. <i>I can't do this anymore</i>.


The slow drift I was onfrom occasional use of alcohol to occasional
misuse, toward dependencywas a story being played out all

[p. <i>263</i>]

Unlike the paramedics, I could quit this assignment if it began
to affect my health, and I thought I should; fortunately, I had almost
finished my research. But in another sense, my position was not that
different from theirs. My decades-long pattern of recurring episodes
of depression meant that I, too, frequently suffered from anxiety. It
didn't matter if the source was a job or an illness; being constantly
exposed to low-level psychic distress created a huge temptation to
"self-medicate"find a short-term cure for the symptoms and just
keep going. I had known all this for years, in an academic sort of
way. I had even gone so far as to admit that I had misused alcohol on
some notable occasions. But me, in danger of becoming an alcoholic?


With a sense of acute shame, I finally brought the subject up
with Eleanor. Her advice was simple: Stop drinking. Any short-term
anxiety relief I got from alcohol was more than paid for in its long-term
depressant effects, she said.


I agonized over definitions; I tried to backpedal and rationalize,
to figure out a reason to get rid of the Scotch but keep the bottle of
Chardonnay in my refrigerator. But those fake distinctions could not

[p. <i>264</i>]

Even so, I knew that without some other means of coping with
anxiety, the temptation to use alcohol would still be strong. I had a
feeling that if my choices were starkuse alcohol to control my anxiety,
or give it up and sufferthen alcohol would become a consuming
topic. That, in its own way, seemed another form of dependency;
either way, it made alcohol the focus of my thoughts. Eleanor's solution
for that was something that at first seemed hardly any better:
antianxiety drugs.


<i>Great</i>, I thought. <i>I can either become a sot or a pillhead</i>. But as
Eleanor and I talked, her rationale began to make more sense. Her
recommendation was a drug called Klonopin, one of a class of drugs
called benzodiazepines. That genre included other drugs I had heard
about, such as Valium and Xanaxthe latter a drug I had taken
briefly in the fall of 1989. I knew that such drugs could be addictive.
The difference, Eleanor explained, was that Klonopin took
longer to get into the bloodstream than most benzodiazepines. This
was important, because an important part of the mechanism of
becoming addicted to a drug was the "quick kick" phenomenon, the
instant gratification provided by fast-acting chemical compounds.
Those compounds also tended to be the ones that induced a kind of
mini-withdrawal when their effects wore off, which in turn tended to
create the psychological craving for more. In some situations the
quicker-acting drugs, such as Xanax, were useful, Eleanor said. But
to treat chronic and intermittent anxiety for longer periods, they carried
a much higher risk of dependency.


The fact that Klonopin took twenty to thirty minutes to get into
the bloodstream made it useful for serious episodes of anxiety but

[p. <i>265</i>]

It was an approach that appealed to my pragmatic nature. Like
many people, I had started out with an ingrained distrust of prescription
drugs; I equated them with illicit purposes or hopeless
causes. Early experiences had done little to dispel my reservations.
But over the years I had learned that psychoactive drugs, used
responsibly, often did exactly what they promised: they could heal
and relieve pain. Sometimes, as I knew, they could even perform
something that looked like a miracle.


To some it might seem that I was well launched on the road to
chemical slavery; having found one crutch, Prozac, I had now supplemented
it with another. But to me, taking these drugs seemed no
different from taking insulin if I had been diabetic or antiseizure
medication if I had suffered from epilepsy. To be sure, this view
assumed that depression and its related mental symptoms were distinct
and observable physical ailmentswhich wasn't quite true. But
it was getting closer to becoming true every day, thanks to advances
like PET scans and other brain-imaging techniques.


But though I was starting to read more extensively in the scientific
literature about research into the brain, my newfound confidence
in drugs was not really based on anything rational. It was a kind of
body knowledge gleaned from my experiences before and after

[p. <i>266</i>]

And so, for a time, a little bottle of orange pills went next to the
green-and-white ones in my medicine cabinet, replacing the liquor in
the living room. As the months passed, I went through all the usual
stages of grief: anger, denial, sadness, bargaining, and finally, acceptance.
Indeed, my reaction to the loss of my relationship with
Thomas and his children was absolutely normal: the reaction of an
emotionally steady person who had suffered a significant blowno
more, and no less. So the orange pills were used regularly for a time,
then retired. At some point since that moment on Indiana Avenue
when I had turned my face up to the sun, I had stopped being a victim
of depression, and become a survivor.


It was a strange interregnum, that period between the fall of
1990 and the summer of 1992. It began at the point at which I
started my first steady progress toward health, and ended when I
parted from the person who had accompanied me on much of that
journey. And yet, throughout that whole period, I comforted myself
with this thought: <i>Whatever happens, it will be all right</i>. For the first
time, apart from some wordless moments of childhood security
before I became acquainted with my particular doom, I believed it.
With or without Thomas, I would survive; my happiness did not
depend on him. I no longer faced annihilation by abandonment.

[p. <i>267</i>]

The unbearable weight lifted in tiny increments, day by day.
Amazing, to realize how heavy it had been; amazing, to understand
how much effort it had taken to carry it. For the first time, I developed
a small, shaky faith in the future.


Something else began to happen: time seemed to expand. I was
no longer constantly dealing with mood swings, anxiety, and the
assorted life crises caused by being in those mental states. I was no
longer devoting great chunks of time to introspection and analyses of
why I was unhappy. There seemed to be more hours in the day, and
during those hours I seemed to have more energy than I remembered
having before. Having a natural abundance of energy had enabled
me to pursue a career despite the handicap of chronic and sometimes
incapacitating depression. Now, as that weight lifted, I had energy to
spare.


And I wanted to be needed.


Until I knew Peter and Melissa, my idea of being needed had
fallen into two categories. One was the martyr modeto find a man
and make myself indispensable to him. That was one way of getting
love and security. The other was the avoidance modeprotecting
myself by staying away from those who might use their own helplessness
to demand love and security from me. But with Thomas's
children, I had learned that being needed was neither an emotional
quid pro quo nor an encounter with a bloodsucker. It was a deep
pleasure. One day Peter hurt himself on the playground and came
running toward me, his face contorted with tears. Without thought,
I dropped to my knees and opened my arms, and when he fell into
my arms something inside me resonated like a bell tolling deep
underwater.

[p. <i>268</i>]

I wanted that feeling again.


The old ways of filling up time didn't work anymore. Just spending
extra hours in the office wasn't the answernor was shopping, or
going to the gym, or reading books. "You know what you should
try?" said Robin, whose own weekend work schedule made me look
unemployed by comparison. "Go to Elizabeth Arden and get a facial.
It's such a treat." But I wasn't in need of pampering. I signed up for
scuba-diving lessons. That was not the answer either. It was connection
I craved. I wanted the thing I had been offered by Hugo in the
hospital, by Peter on the playground. I wanted to get out of my own
head.


I had tried. But in those group therapy sessions years ago in
Atlanta, bridging the gap between myself and another person had
been excruciating. Every venture outside my own consciousness
seemed to be accompanied by the sound of shattering glass; it took a
mighty effort to leave my soundproofed box. I could see the same
story in the eyes of the others, too. Like me, they harbored the inner
certainty that something was wrong; like me, they defended themselves
with exaggerated shame at being imperfect, or with furious,
defensive hostility. To expose ourselves was like submitting to a
caress on burned flesh. And yet, escaping the prison of self was what
it was all about.


It wasn't just about some transcendental moment of connection;
it was about immortality. One of the lessons I had learned by being
around Thomas's children was that they reflected my most trivial
ideas and ways of being in the world. Once I'd told Peter a joke.
"Why did the chicken cross the road? To show the possum that it
<i>could</i> be done." After I'd explained to him that dead possums were a
common sight on back roads in the South, he thought the joke hilarious

[p. <i>269</i>]

The course of action that presented itself to me, after I thought
about it for a while, seemed self-evident: I volunteered to mentor a
high school student.


Her name was Lisa, and she was not what I expected. She was a
straight-A student who was already being courted by several colleges.
She was also so drop-dead beautiful that once, when we were eating
dinner together, I saw a strange man cross the restaurant floor to
leave his business card by her plate, hoping vainly that this poised
seventeen-year-old would give him the time of day. Lisa was blas; it
had happened before, she said. I had expected to meet some teenager
who was a victim of poverty or parental neglect or both. Lisa came
from a loving, stable, middle-class family. I couldn't think of a single
thing she needed from me. I also wondered what her mother would
say if she knew her daughter was being "mentored" by a former psychiatric
patient.


But after several weeks, it came to me that perhaps I did have
something to offer her: my own experience with the perils of overachievement.
Lisa was black, and I knew our lives would always be
different in fundamental ways. But in a few ways, she and I came
from similar backgrounds. We were both from middle-class families
with roots in the South; with her and her mother, I had the sense
that the word "home" meant the same Southern landscape, the same
food, even the same hymns I had known as a child. We were both
products of a culture steeped in fundamentalist Christianity, which
placed prime value on education and the kind of respectability that

[p. <i>270</i>]

I saw a piece of myself in the part of Lisa that so highly prized a
certain type of accomplishmentachieving perfect grade point averages,
winning essay contests, getting scholarships, setting out on the
path that would lead someday to a comfortable income. Over that
school year, I talked to her about the perspective on life I had
acquired, at some cost, after my own youth as a superachiever. I told
her how I'd imagined my own tombstone in my diary, when I was
fifteen"Here lies Tracy Thompson, she made straight A's"and
how empty and sad that had made me feel, even when I had thought
straight A's the only thing about me that people could value. Perfect
grades and scholarships were wonderful, I said, but don't make the
mistake I made, and conclude that they are what makes you a worthwhile
person. Don't fall into the trap of always needing the good
opinion of other people; don't do harm to yourself in trying to please
them.


I don't know if she found my advice useful. She was not as desperate
to please as I had been at her age, and so perhaps my mistakes
were wasted on her. But she seemed to weigh what I said, and file it
away for future reference. As the year went by, she would sometimes
diffidently mention things that had happened at school, and I realized
that she wanted me to know about her achievements, that my
opinion had come to matter to her. We became girlfriends, going to
the movies, meeting for dinner, talking about men. After a while, I
stopped worrying about whether I was "mentoring" properly.


At the end of the year, Lisa left Washington to accept a full
scholarship to the University of Virginia, one of the schools that had
courted her so assiduously. I decided to reenlist as a mentor.

[p. <i>271</i>]

I had been looking for something I needed; in the process, I had
discovered that I already possessed true luxury, which existed in feeing
able to give. Before, I had been like those people who haunt flea
markets, who collect pieces of other people's livesa bit of jewelry,
a mirrorand hoard them, whose pleasure consists in having. I had
collected proofs of love and esteem; I had been a bottomless well of
human need. Now I felt as if I were cleaning out my garage, finding
treasuresor at least usable items. <i>Take this</i>, I felt like saying. <i>Does
anybody need an end table? Can anybody use this perfectly good lamp?</i>


When I thought about this in the context of my struggle with
depression, I stumbled on a radical notion. Perhaps this was one of
the costs of depression I'd never considered. Depression had not simply
robbed me of pleasure in life; those around me had suffered an
ongoing loss too.


There were risks in saying that. For one thing, doing volunteer
work gave me a considerable sense of self-worth. It made me feel
importantbut that, in itself, proved nothing about the actual value
of what I was doing. There was also the risk of assuming that I was
the helper and not the one being helped. And there was the risk of
arrogance. The religion of my childhood had been vigilant about
squelching pride; we were helpless creatures, our Bible taught, we
were nothing without God. "Just as I am, poor, wretched, blind ..."
we sang. It was a religion suited for a culture of poverty and defeat;
the afterlife it promised had been, for my mother, a rock of stability
and hope. But for me, it had only bred a kind of reflexive self-deprecation.


I had always considered self-deprecation a bad habit that harmed
nobody but me. Now I reexamined that idea, and found a kind of
self-indulgence lurking in it. Confusing hubris with self-confidence
fostered a kind of willful blindness, a deliberate dishonesty. A person

[p. <i>272</i>]

Worse, this habit could also become a kind of emotional armor.
As long as I presented myself as weaker than I was, people could not
demand as much of me. If I was skillful, I could even use that technique
to turn the tables and demand things for myself. The tyranny
of the weak: my grandmother had done that. I had thought that her
refusal to be anything but a victim had been a conscious decision to
manipulate others. But it was just as likelymaybe more likely
that she had begun simply by indulging herself in a lie, by refusing
to acknowledge the strengths she possessed. The effect was deadly. It
was the emotional equivalent of putting a healthy arm in a cast and
whacking people over the head with it.


How could I avoid that trap?


The answer had been percolating in the back of my mind for
some time. It was summed up in that button I had found a year or so
earlier at the American City Dinerthe one that said "No Whining
Allowed." That phrase combined two concepts which were very popular,
but which rarely got mentioned in the same sentence. One was
the search for self-esteem. The other was the concept of "tough love."


The latter, the idea of expressing love by imposing discipline,
seemed to appeal most strongly to people who wanted to be the ones
<i>applying</i> the discipline; I didn't notice anyone queuing up to receive
any. In fact, American culture bombarded us with the opposite message:
Whatever happens, whatever you've done, don't think ill of
yourself. The <i>Post</i> sometimes ran stories about someone who had
committed a crime, but was described by family and friends as "a
good person," someone "trying to get his life together," someone

[p. <i>273</i>]

But where did the truththe awkward, inconvenient truthfit
in?


Years ago, a co-worker had told me about a self-improvement
seminar he had attended at a local junior college. "It was great," he
said earnestly; it was clear he'd bought the whole spiel. "This guy's
theory is that your brain only processes the information you allow
into it. Think of yourself as having this grid, or a filter, which allows
some information in and keeps other information out. All you have
to do to think positively about yourself is to rearrange your grid. If
the only kind of input you allow is positive, then the only kind of
thoughts you can have about yourself are going to be positive too."


"Okay," I said. "But what if you <i>think</i> that you're terrific, but
you're really an asshole?"


My co-worker looked disgusted. "There's a person like you in
every office," he said.


I had been teasing him, but I'd also been genuinely puzzled. At
the time, I had been wrestling with my own inability to tell if <i>I</i> was
really terrific, or just an asshole; my opinion varied daily. To arrive at
a more realistic assessment of myself had taken many years, and my
approach had been the opposite of my friend's: my self-esteem had
been wholly dependent on how other people thought I was doing,
not on what I thought about myself.


Now, at long last, I realized: it was bothboth loving myself,

[p. <i>274</i>]

The trick was unsparing, unsentimental honesty. There were bad
things in view when I looked in the mirror; my job was to figure out
what they were, to see them in proportion, and not to flinch. "No
Whining Allowed." The button was stuck on the bulletin board
above my desk at work as a silent reminder: tough self-love. Learning
how to love myself had given me a reason to survive a debilitating
and terrifying episode of depression; it was the rope I had hung on to
in the pit of despair. But being tough on myself was the pulley. It
was the thing that got me out.

