TRANSCRIPT OF AUDIO FILE:
______________________________________________________________________________
BEGIN TRANSCRIPT:
CLIENT: I don't exactly know why this came up, he was feeling sad or—I don't even know. Apparently I said some stuff about how—(sniggers) I don't even remember. I could review the G-chat, but I just don't care that much. 
THERAPIST: Also, I don't think I mentioned last week I'm out next Thursday and Friday, so either at the end I can look at my schedule for next week. We can try to figure something out or I can e-mail you later today.
CLIENT: Okay. Either or. 
THERAPIST: Okay. Fine.
CLIENT: I said some stuff that made him feel bad. We had this big weekend with all these people at our house and stuff. I wasn't there for Saturday. I left Saturday morning. I guess on Saturday night—I had asked him not to have a party because there were already nine people staying at the house. I was like, "Just party after and then just come home with the people." I guess he had some people over. There were twelve people total—maybe it was less, maybe it was more—I don't know. So it was somewhat of a party and apparently they were up late drinking and dancing to music until 5 AM; and then really shitfaced drunk they had gone out to the club before. So one of the guys that's staying with us, a friend of Franklin, starts talking trash to Franklin about I don't know what, about somebody's luggage that had been left in my car and I drove to Chicago—whatever. I guess he wouldn't back down and this is the story from everybody else, not just Franklin. He wouldn't back down and Franklin had just been sitting there like, "Okay, dude. Just calm down. I've opened our home to you. Stop. Relax. It's all good. We're about to go to bed." He wouldn't stop until Franklin finally couldn't take it anymore because he's in his face screaming, yelling drunk, apparently. This was the report even from the guy's girlfriend, but she was pissed. Nobody could stop him. [ ] (inaudible at 00:02:09) It ends with 6:30 AM that they're having this scuffle in the hallway, Franklin trying to get him to leave with his girlfriend like, "You need to go stay at another friend's house," a friend who happens to live close by. Like, "Get out. You can't stay here." They're fighting. Franklin ultimately gives him a black eye and a bloody nose. The girlfriend pushes her boyfriend down the stairs because she's so mad at him because he pushed her or something because he's all drunk and angry. Franklin gets him in a choke hold and he bites the shit out of Franklin, breaking skin. 
THERAPIST: My God. [00:02:48]
CLIENT: During the scuffle of him trying to push him down the stairs, there's blood smeared on the wall from this guy's nose. Franklin cuts his leg, not severely, but a deep little cut on the metal, dirty, disgusting stairs thing. I come on Sunday and I get to the gym. I came back from Chicago, went home, showered, and met him at the competition thing. Literally one of the first people I talked to—I went to say "Hi" to Franklin, who was taking pictures and I said "Hi to other friends—one of the other friends, actually the ex-boyfriend of this girl that Franklin is talking to. That's how we know him, through the group. So I come up to him like, "Hey, Jack." He's like, "So, I heard shit went down at your house last night." I was like, "I wasn't there. Proceed to tell me what happened." He was like, "Oh. I wasn't either. I don't know. I'm not the right person to ask." I was like okay. I go right over to Simone and Caleb. Caleb is the one who started the fight and Simone is his girlfriend. (sniggers) I say, "Hey, guys. How come Jack just said that shit went down at our house?" They literally both look at each other and look at me . . . [00:03:58]
THERAPIST: You didn't know at that point that it had to do with them?
CLIENT: No. I knew nothing. So they looked up to me and then they started explaining. They started showing me the black eye and she's showing me she has marks on her arms. He had marks on his chest. She said, "We came in today and Caleb apologized to Franklin and told him he was really sorry and they made up." First of all, Allison, the girlfriend of the other guy, Loman, whose house they went to when they got kicked out of our house, was like, "All I kept saying to everybody was 'If Trina were there, that would not have happened.'" I was like, "No, it wouldn't," because a) there wouldn't have been a party; b) if there were a little get-together, it would not have lasted until 5 AM dancing; and c) I told Franklin, "How freaking lucky is it that my landlord wasn't home or was passed out,"—because he's kind of a drunk—"and didn't call the freaking police," because this kid is out on the porch screaming and yelling. Franklin had to go back out. [00:04:53] That happened, right? So I said to Franklin on Tuesday, "Listen to me. There is something that makes me nervous. I don't enjoy that kind of partying. I wouldn't have been happy being up that late and I feel nervous that you like that kind of stuff." He took it all crazy, as he usually does, and was like, "Well, I just don't think that we have a chance. I don't think this will work." I was like, "Why do you have to go to the most extreme? Can't I just say how I feel about something?" And then I also said a bunch of stuff about how we haven't even had the opportunity to see much change in it. We haven't had the opportunity to see whatever is going to work. And then he got all sad that I said I hadn't seen any changes because he feels like he's been doing so much and feels so bad. I'm thinking, "Okay, yes. You have been showing me that you want to change, showing me more love, buying me this earphone, which is not, to me, a change—come on. I actually don't know how to [read them to me to see your phone.] (ph) I tried to explain all this stuff and he's all upset and he's just like, "I just have to think. I don't know now what I want to do. Maybe I'll find a room at a rooming house instead to save money." Just crazy. I said, "We'll talk when I get home." [00:06:05]
Meanwhile, I have my exam yesterday for my final exam, so when I got home I had to study, but I wanted to talk to him first. He's sitting there with a bottle of wine. He doesn't really want to talk. He's like, "I just don't know yet." I start crying. I'm just so frustrated and upset, like what the hell? Sheesh—whatever. He hasn't been studying for whatever crap he wants to be studying for. He hadn't yet gotten a therapist. Whatever. It doesn't matter. I haven't really seen that much change. Come on. We haven't even had the chance to move out and see what's going to happen. I tried to explain that to him gently, but it just felt like very typical in terms of him making sure that if there is a situation, regardless of who brings it up, I end up feeling worse about it than he does and have to be the one apologizing. It just felt very characteristic of that behavior. [00:07:01] 
Then we kind of made up. He's like, "Calm down, babe. It's all good." There's no "I'm sorry" for overreacting, nothing like that, obviously. So I'm like all right. (sniff, sniff) I'm over it. My eyes are all puffy. I'm like, "Okay, I'm going to go study for 2½ hours now." What does he do? Does he do something like study some fitness stuff like he wants to or be productive and be online doing something or reading or anything? No. He watches a movie and drinks the whole bottle of wine. I know in his head it's like, "This is justified because my feelings are hurt and I just need to relax," but you're really doing the opposite. Not only are you doing the opposite of being productive and showing me any kind of change, but you're doing something that I've asked you not to do before—after spending an entire weekend drinking your brains out and smoking forever in your whole life, the whole night, every night until 5 AM. [00:07:57] It just pissed me off. I didn't say anything to him about it because I just didn't feel like climbing that hill and dealing with what I know his reaction would be, which is the same as always, which is, "Well, I just had a stressful day," and da-da-da-da. It was literally like, "Oh, my God. You literally just ignored everything that we just had a conversation about." I'm in there f**king studying. I'm not telling you you have to study, but do f**king something besides watch a movie and drink a whole bottle of wine. Really? So that happened and things calmed down a little bit. He's like, "Well, maybe we should split up the phone lines, just in case it doesn't work out." And I'm like, "Whatever you want." I was honest with extending the whole phone thing as a courtesy because it's cheaper as a family plan and I get a discount from school, but whatever, which is what we decided to do. We're just going to keep it because it's easy enough—I spoke to one of my friends and she said they don't charge you for splitting it up later. You just have separate plans and it's not a big deal. Whatever. I'll cross that bridge when I get there. [00:09:05] He's just been acting very martyrish and over-dramatic this week. I also floated something to him about something to talk about in therapy and he kind of was like—what was it? It was about his compulsion to talk about other women. He was like, "I'm not going to talk about that in therapy." I'm like, "What?" That pissed me off, so a lot of things are seeming to—slowly but surely he's kind of inching away from originally where he was so extreme about wanting to win me back and all this stuff. Slowly inching back to kind of "I'll do what I want to do". Yesterday I said something about having sex or making out—I don't know. Something like, "Oh, we should make out," something like that. He was like, "I don't want to plan those kinds of things anymore because when you say it and it doesn't happen, I feel unattractive." I was like, "What?" And, of course, I put on my sensitive hat because he's f**king ridiculous. I was like, "That's really no way to feel unattractive. My being tired or not in the mood or forgetting have nothing to do with how attractive you are to me or to anybody else. This is another thing that I believe will be really important to explore why you might be feeling that way with your therapist because it's one of the reasons you gave me as to why you were talking to other women in the first place, right? Feeling unattractive." [00:10:38] 
He shuts it down. "That's not something I need to talk about in therapy." I'm like, "What are you going to talk about then that has anything to do with what sent you to therapy?" which was this whole incident. At that point I just have to back off because I just have to see what's going to happen and let this unfold. The fact that he would be like, "That's not something that needs to be talked about. That's just something that I need to work out myself." Obviously not, because your way of working it out yourself before was by getting attention from other attractive women who told you were attractive and they want to sleep with you. I've just been kind of frustrated this week. Things have calmed down for me—his being overdramatic earlier in the week. He also said to me yesterday when I was encouraging him to try to go out with friends on Saturday at some point because I was going to be babysitting for five hours of the day and then going out in the evening with some girlfriends. He was like, "If I'm a loner, I want to feel okay with that." I was like, "Okay, but you're not a loner. You love hanging out with people. This weekend proved it. You have a crew. Loners don't hang out with people until 5 AM dancing and drinking with them and they don't have a crew and you're not a loner. I kind of said that but then dropped it because I just think he was being murderish and just like, "Oh, woe is me. I'm so sad." [00:11:59] I think, overall, I'm just like, "Ehh." We'll just have to see what happens because I'm really feeling less confident about his promises to me and fulfilling a part of my terms and conditions essentially. I'm not really sure how that will unfold and it's also prompting me back into the roommate search because I'm like "Ehh. I don't want to have to deal with asking you for money like that. I would rather not have to depend on you for as much," which I would have to if I didn't have a roommate. At least things would be more tight. He's still going to give me money for the credit cards and the phone bill and this other loan that we have, but I'm going to still be trying to updating my thing and I'm getting a lot more people who are responding that are more my age and stuff like that. I'm meeting with one girl. She kept forgetting to tell me her age so—who knows. She sent me her Facebook link and from what I could tell she looks maybe like 25—maybe closer to my age; but she's Russian. This is totally ridiculous. She's Russian, I've deduced from her Facebook page. She claims she's a waitress at a restaurant in the Square. Franklin's ex is Bulgarian and she's a waitress at a Russian restaurant in the Square, so I'm going to have to ask this girl what restaurant she works at and if it's the same one that his ex works at, that's an automatic "no", even if she's cool because that's just way too awkward. I don't even want Franklin to be there so that she can see his face or hear his name just in case. That's very uncomfortable. [00:13:51]
So she's coming to see the room tomorrow after I get back from babysitting and then on Sunday I have a woman who is 30 who is a vegan vegetarian yodini (ph) yoga instructor, who seems nice other than her e-mail I did make sure to write back and explain what my situation was and that I eat a lot of meat and cheese and don't separate dishes and don't want to. She wrote me back thanking me for my open explanation of stuff and that she still really wants to see the room. Maybe this is me being judgmental, but I somehow feel like vegan/vegetarian/yoga people are, I feel in general that people aren't that way, so I'm a little nervous about how that could go, but she could be very nice and maybe [ ] (inaudible at 00:14:43).
THERAPIST: You don't want somebody who's going to look at you sideways when you eat a hamburger, even if she's willing to eat a carrot with you.
CLIENT: Exactly. Or sleeps until 3 PM or be drunk or snort weed in the living room or go outside and have a cigarette on the porch, that kind of thing. Or don't watch TV every night instead of reading or doing yoga. So I'll have to gauge. I'm still going to be picky until I find the right person and I think that I do have some wiggle room there in terms of Franklin being able to help me and stuff like that, but I think that I do want to find somebody sooner than later based on my sense of his decline in enthusiasm as to what I would like to see from him. [00:15:31] I have a couple of other promising females. One is a 29-year-old who sounded really nice, but she hasn't responded back so maybe she found something or was not interested after I explained more about myself. (chuckles) I don't know. But I'm going to keep refreshing the posting and see what I get. I've got another girl who is 24. I've got another person asking if she could move in with her boyfriend and their kitten. I was like, "Err. Absolutely not. No." (both chuckle) I've got another 21-year-old who's just moving out of her mom's house, so I'm filtering all of those kinds of people and we'll see what I get. I think that it's nice to feel that I don't have to rush to find somebody. [00:16:14]
THERAPIST: Sure. So you can be a little more discriminating.
CLIENT: Yeah. But at the same time, I still have the worry of "What if I pass up this yoga lady and she ends up being the best one I find in three months? Then I have to wait six months to find a better one." But I think that I'll get a good sense of people when I meet them and I could always ask to meet them again. It's early enough in the month now. In the ad I put "September 1st earliest, but October 1st if you're looking for October." I guess some people will be already. [00:16:53] We'll see how the whole moving out process goes with Franklin and what's going to go on. He's going on Sunday to finally drop off the first rent. He needs to give first and security or first and last or something. I'm going to go with him just because I want to see it and know where it is, so that's happening. Yeah, the move out thing should be interesting because we'll see when he's going to leave, what he's going to take, how awkward it's going to be. I'm sure he's going to be all—I keep using the word "martyr" because it's the best word I can think of; acting like a martyr. "I don't know. I hope I'll have room for this. Maybe I'll get a storage space." It's very irritating. I'm not sure what his end goal in behaving like that is, or if it's just totally unconscious. I think another thing I'm uncomfortable with is, honestly, he hasn't talked to anybody, I don't think, about actually what's going on. I think he floated relationship issues to one of his friends, who is the one whose child died who's near Franklin's sister; so he's not a good person to talk to. In the first place, apparently his response to whatever Franklin had told him was like, "F**k it. If they're trying to get with you, then just hit that and don't tell anybody. If not, send them my way." Just not very helpful. He said he hung out with another friend recently and that he did talk to him about stuff, but he's frustrated because he feels like all guys only want to look at females and whatever. I'm like, "I don't think that's the case; but also, if they are single guys, they are going to be looking at females. If they respect that you have a girlfriend, then just agree and say, 'Yeah, she's hot. You should go try to talk to her.' It shouldn't be a big deal. I'm with my friends all the time and they're like, 'Oh, my God. Look at that guy,' and I'm like, "Oh, my God. Go try to get something . . . " Whatever. It shouldn't—it feels awkward that it's so bothersome to him that when he's out with guys a lot of times they want to talk about females. It's like, "You can change the subject, Franklin. You can tell them you're uncomfortable. You can tell them to go talk to them and go have a drink at the bar by yourself while he does it." I'm not sure why he's coming up with these excuses not to hang out with people. [00:19:17] The bottom line is he hasn't really talked to anybody about this. He hasn't told his family about this; and I'm not going to be the one to do it. I mean I could, of course. I have relationships with all of them, but it's not my family. I'm telling my family in my own way. I haven't spoken to my father and stuff about it, but I plan to. My mom knows what's going on and all that stuff. So what's going to happen? [00:19:48]
THERAPIST: You sound, I think more so than in recent weeks, kind of in that mode of being on top of things, having things all worked out, being clear about what your plans are—including how you're dealing with him—what you're critical of about how he's been, getting a roommate. It sounds a little like you're sort of going over it and making it clear to both of us that you're not happy how he's been, here are all the reasons, kind of laying them all out, put in the context of what you've been upset about with him with how he seems to be kind of backsliding from who he was a few weeks ago, the apartment stuff, getting a new roommate—I guess that usually means you're feeling kind of anxious and maybe a bit overwhelmed by something and you kind of have to get all the ducks lined up to help you feel less anxious. [00:21:26]
CLIENT: Yeah. I'm definitely feeling more anxious and it's based on his recent reactions of that backing out and giving me the whole break-up threat thing again.
THERAPIST: So I imagine that means you're feeling anxious about—which I guess is what we were talking about last week—is the possibility that this won't work out, which you had really been hoping for and kind of holding onto in a way.
CLIENT: Yeah, exactly. I think exactly. Based on recent stuff going on in our relationship it's just made me feel like, "Oh, God. I'm not really sure this is going to happen. I'm not really sure I'm going to be able to feel confident in you as somebody to move forward with my life." I was talking about it with my girlfriend, my boss, last night over drinks. We were talking about a lot of aspects of it and, of course, it's all very difficult and confusing and you go back and forth, but one of the things that she brought up was how mother-like I am with him and how I'm always taking care of him. Something that she thought about in her break-up, which was a couple of years ago now but had some similar aspects as mine and that she's very heartbroken over, was the thought of, "God, if I go forward with this and we have kids eventually, I want somebody that I can sit there and they will be the one to say 'go do your homework,' as opposed to being the only one to do that with the other person not thinking about how important it is." [00:23:17] Yeah, that's something I think about. It's something I think I'm foreseeing difficulties based on the really short span of time between when Franklin was gung-ho—"My life is changed. I want to be a whole new person. I want to do all this stuff," and da-da-da—to a few weeks later where it feels almost like, "You're being too picky. I don't know about that. That's not something I should talk about in therapy. You shouldn't say these things to me." So, yeah, I'm feeling anxious about that. I think also another part of it could be the fact that this course has been really difficult for me through the summer, based on everything that's been going on and it's a really intensive course—six hours a week and then 200 pages of reading a week, three essays and an exam. I took these in yesterday. I'm really relieved that the class is over, but the reason I feel like that anxiety is coming from that a little bit could be the fact that I'm like, "Yes. I have three more weeks left in August. I want to go [ ] (inaudible at 00:24:26), out with my friends," or whatever, and feeling anxious about the idea that in doing that, am I going to feel from Franklin like, "I'm so lonely. You're going out so much. You're not texting me enough," and feeling anxiety around that—wanting to be able to enjoy the rest of my summer but feeling anxious that he's going to have his feelings hurt because it's our last few weeks of living together. I think that's certainly some of what is manifesting itself as anxiety and me just wanting to be like, "I have this and I have this and this organized," so I can try to at least feel like some things are in order, even if my thoughts aren't completely. [00:25:14] 
I don't want to have to apologize for staying out late or for wanting to go out a lot and be out of the house. I don't want to have to apologize or feel bad for that; and I feel like I do. (pause) 
THERAPIST: It could be that you're trying to sort of keep organized of the things that you can and feel on top of those things because, yeah, there is something here that matters a great deal and that you're pretty out of control of, which is not how he acts. I don't mean that, although it's also true that you're not in control of that. (chuckles) But how you feel about him and how that leads you to get pulled into the way he sees things.
CLIENT: Right. Exactly.
THERAPIST: Where he could make you feel bad for going out when there is no reason you shouldn't. From a cool distance you know that, but in the heat of the moment with him it's different. Yeah, things like that. [00:27:17]
CLIENT: For sure. So I'm trying to sort that out.
THERAPIST: (pause) I guess it does seem like somewhere in your mind you have confidence that this is really going to work between you two.
CLIENT: Yeah, of course. There is. But it's clouded by more doubt than the doubt outweighs the "this could work." It's ironic that this happens to me when I'm in a five-week month (chuckles) because he's not going to worry that . . . 
THERAPIST: It's a longer month?
CLIENT: Yeah. (chuckles) It's just kind of ironic and coincidental, I guess.
THERAPIST: It's more stretched out?
CLIENT: Yeah. Exactly. The biggest thing for me, which I've been talking about with friends and all that, is wanting to stay true to what I want in this situation. Even if I back out of little things—like you said and in the immediate moment let him mold a little bit of how I respond and think—even if that happens here and there, if I'm keeping the bigger picture in terms of wanting him to move out, wanting him to be in therapy, wanting to see him complete these things that he said he'd complete, and taking my time to spend more time with my friends and my own game, little confusions and other little issues . . . 
THERAPIST: Won't matter so much. [00:29:33]
CLIENT: Exactly. Or won't matter so much that will seem less crucial to how the whole thing is happening. I'm not letting it change my decisions. My friend, Jennifer, the one who I've been talking with who also had an even worse situation happen—her fiancé cheated on her—has been asking me. I've been stressing to her this week about what's going on. A lot of her questions have surrounded the idea of, "Okay, so he's confused and he doesn't know what to do. He thinks that. He thinks this. He's blaming things on you that he's feeling unattractive. How does that change your perception of what you want to see happen—and if it does, why? Why does it change that? What is going on that's making you feel differently than you felt a week ago when you were so sure of what you wanted?" She's really good at talking. She's a therapist, (chuckles) so she's good at this stuff in general. [00:30:38] I think it was good for her to ask me those questions because I was able to answer with, "No, it doesn't change anything about what I want to happen. It just makes me feel more angry at him." She's like, "So, okay. Let him be confused. Let him sit there and not know if this is what he wants and threaten to break up a bunch of times in your relationship. He'll either step up and get his shit together and do what he needs to do to prove to you or he'll realize that he's not good enough for you or that he doesn't want to do this stuff to be good enough for you and that's it." She had a point, I think. That was really helpful. Today I'm feeling a lot calmer than I have been and I think that also has to do with not having to study any more. That was just stressful. [00:31:25]
One thing that he actually was really helpful. Luckily the proctor had given us the entire exam on a review sheet. They could have had open book to study from and it was on the last two small questions I kind of was like, "I can't look at this screen any more. I can't look through these books any more. I'm tired." I went in crying like, "I can't do this," and he was like, "Well, I'm going to help you." He came in and he sat with me and read the questions out loud and looked up some stuff online for me. I think even he didn't want to contribute a super lot in terms of the content, but it was really helpful for him to be there and I really appreciated that. It was a really big help for me. It got me through the rest of the study sheet, and that was awesome. [00:32:10] Today we're going to go out to dinner after work to celebrate my class being over, so that should be nice. Tomorrow we'll have basically the whole day apart because I think he's going to go to Six Flags with some friends, which he said "no" to. He was just going to do it if I wanted to do it as part of the celebration, but I'm babysitting so he's just going to stay home and work on himself was his original plan. I'm like, "So what are you going to do?" "I'm going to stay home and work on myself, I think." I was like, "Oh. Sounds non-productive. You can think during work." If he said to me, "I'm going to stay home and study for this thing" or "I'm going to stay home and work out," that would have made more sense. (sniggers) Anyway, he, I think, is deciding to go. This is his crew members. It's people that he knows and can be himself with. I don't know what time they'll be back, but I'm sure if they want to go out that night, he'll get it. I'm going out that night, so they'll be able to convince him to come and meet wherever they're going to go, hopefully. Just go. I'm planning on going out for drinks and whatever with my friend, Karen. Go. It's no big deal. People spend time apart all the time. He just doesn't understand how a relationship (sniggers) works. It shouldn't be an issue. [00:33:34]
So I'm looking forward to the weekend and my mom has been on another week of vacation. Must be nice. One of the women that she—she has two AA groups. One is an actual AA group. The other is professionals. It's kind of like a group therapy thing. One of the women in that group—or maybe it's just one of the women in her AA group. I don't know. But either way, she has a lot of money and gets a lake house every summer and my mom goes up there for a week and hangs out and gets sun and knits and helps make food and cooks; so she spends another week of vacation. You lucky dog. (laughs) She'll be back on Sunday and we're going to meet up. Do you know where [Inaudible] is? Have you heard of that restaurant? 
THERAPIST: Sure. [00:34:21]
CLIENT: Well there's one here now, too, but the original was quite a ways, and they also have a new place next door called Organic. It's a really, really good burger place. 
THERAPIST: Next door to here?
CLIENT: No. To the other place. That's down the street from my mom's house. Actually, this place has a better burger, so we're going to meet up that day and have burgers. They have a little chef's bar right by the open kitchen that we like this at, so we'll have an early dinner there. That will be good. Just in terms of other stuff, I think I'm just trying to take it day by day. I've been trying to take things with less severity in terms of how I react to things. It's been hard, but I want to try to just not react and feed into what he's almost fishing for. (pause) [00:35:21]
THERAPIST: You're feeling increasingly like things are falling apart with the man you had envisioned spending the rest of your life with. 
CLIENT: Right. The whole thing is ridiculous. Right. I think it's, again, the fact that I feel like he's backing out of his original enthusiasm and dedication to the cause, I guess, is making me feel increasingly anxious about the whole thing. 
THERAPIST: I guess, you've said that at other times and one thing that keeps going through my mind as you say it is (pause) I think it was a little more mixed, even from the start, wasn't it? I mean he was very sad when you told him that he needed to move out, and he did, I know, really say he was committed to doing whatever it takes; but to find him texting with somebody or find some more messages . . . 
CLIENT: The girl that e-mails him [ ] (crosstalk at 00:37:04) Also not feeling sure that he wasn't deleting messages.
THERAPIST: Yeah. Like a couple of other things even during that time, like drinking or other things . . . 
CLIENT: Yep. Drinking was one of the things. Yep.
THERAPIST: With his sort of doing anything that he could do that I remember you being upset about. I guess I'm bringing it up because it sounds maybe as though you're kind of remembering that as a time when things looked much more positive and like it was going to work, and now it seems less like that, for some reason, dividing things that way when it was kind of mixed from the start. [00:38:24]
CLIENT: I think I was able to focus more, even though it was mixed in the beginning; still I was able to focus more on the stuff because it's kind of his enthusiasm about the good stuff . . . 
THERAPIST: And maybe because you wanted to?
CLIENT: And maybe because I wanted to. Exactly. Yeah. I was trying not to be cynical. [00:38:45]
THERAPIST: Which, honestly, is again working hard not to be cynical; in the wake of what had just happened it's sort of striking.
CLIENT: Yeah. Right. Because it would have. (pause) [00:39:33] I don't know if it's just completely mixed emotions about the entire thing, which I think is normal for something like this?
THERAPIST: Of course it is. Of course it is. I think one of the things that seems to be emerging—which I think has sort of been there the whole time, including before all of this came down—it seems like unconsciously you tend to overlook or reorient to things in the service of keeping hope alive about the relationship, which I can understand. It's not hard to understand why you would want to do that or some of the reasons why you would want to do that. But I think you do it to some extent without being aware that you're doing it, which is why I'm kind of waiving arms about it at the moment. It's not because I'm trying to take a position about what you should do, but because I think sometimes it's not really clear that you're looking at things a certain way or trying to look at things a certain way in the service of that. I think I take your friend's point as well about how you know he's moving out as long as you're committed to doing a lot of things with friends on your own over the next few weeks. That's probably not going to have a lot of practical implications, which is very important, but just as a matter of understanding what's going on with you and how you're navigating this, I guess it seems to me relevant. [00:41:34]
CLIENT: I think also, honestly, because of his extreme reactions when it comes to me saying anything, it's like maybe this won't work. It's almost ingrained. It's almost as if I have to be optimistic about it because if I'm not, maybe I'll start being pessimistic about it around him and then he'll get sensitive and then I'll have to deal with him being sensitive and he'll blame it on me. I think that almost unconsciously is why I do it.
THERAPIST: I see. Because if you're not holding hope, no one is. [00:42:14]
CLIENT: Well, no. Because it's like if I'm not holding onto hope and being positive about everything, then I'm going to be the one who is making this fail.
THERAPIST: Oh, I'm sorry. I misunderstood. 
CLIENT: He's like, "Don't say that kind of stuff. Don't say it may not work out," when I think I'm just being realistic. (chuckles) 
THERAPIST: Also, I think importantly and related to other things in the relationship, why shouldn't you have moments where you get also to feel like it's going to fail or be upset or less than level-headed? 
CLIENT: Right. Again, it's just all so very characteristic of him behaving in a way and reacting to things in a way that makes me the one to blame and so we'll have to see how that continues, I guess. [00:43:21] What my friend said to me last night was, "Honestly, maybe you're not ready to hear this yet, but I think that you're . . ." she said that based on the way that I was talking about some stuff and everything that she knows has gone on, she's like, "Obviously take this for what it is. You don't have to tell me yes or no, but my sense is that you're kind of over all of this and done with it." I was like, "You may be right. I don't know if I know that yet," but she may be right, even though I think that she was seeing more of my pessimism when I was talking to her about stuff yesterday than maybe I'm presenting now or maybe I try to hold onto. I think feeling good today and having good communication with him today and last night has me on the optimistic side and I drop to pessimistic if he's being bitchy like he was yesterday. I think it changes based on the day. (laughs) 
THERAPIST: We should stop for now, but I'll e-mail you later about next week.
CLIENT: That sounds good. I'm open . . . lunchtime on Wednesday I have something, but just let me know if we're meeting and we'll go from there. Thanks. Have a good weekend.
END TRANSCRIPT
