TRANSCRIPT OF AUDIO FILE:
______________________________________________________________________________
BEGIN TRANSCRIPT:
THERAPIST: How are you?
CLIENT: I'm doing okay. I just finally, finally, finally got the letter from hell, saying that they don't give me health insurance. So I can like, after this I'm going to go to the FedEx and fax it off to them. To myself, then this. And generally, I feel like all my patience for, like, everything is eroded, and I get irritated and I agree with how strict he's, like, so easily, and how everything gets me upset, and I don't really know what to do about it, if anything, because... like, maybe I can... in theory, I can control how I react but I can't really control the fact that I'm getting upset in the first place.
THERAPIST: So what—what have you been noticing?
CLIENT: I mean, sometimes things, like, triggering it will be things like Sydney, like, last night he was, like, up till... like, he had gone, he was going to work on his programming problem. And he was going to go for a couple of minutes, and I was going to go to sleep and he was going to come back, and then I woke up at five in the morning and he wasn't there, and I had looked, and then it turns out he was on a trip barge, because he had like done all this procrastination. Well, working late because he couldn't think of solutions. Like he had gotten this idea that he was having, it was—he was having trouble implementing it, and then, like also... because the reason he had gone out in the first place was because I was, like, in pain from hunger. And so he had had some pasta, which was put away with leftover pasta and he gave me some, and so I ate it, and (pause) then I was still hungry. And there was more leftover pasta. I don't know why I had even made such a small bowl. I thought it originally was the contents of the leftovers that I got and he was all like, "Oh, well, I put the cheese grater in the sink already," and I was like, "Okay." You know, I was in a towel with no glasses. So it wasn't really like I was going to see to be getting myself food, and he was like, "Go get something else." And I was like, "What?" And he was like, "Well, it's not my responsibility," because he was like, getting upset about me being dependent on him. So he was getting all upset over that. I mean, I've gotten upset over other things that like, last week on Saturday night, his maid's carriage run out late and I had to sit and wait in the car for like, a half hour waiting for him. Because it was supposed to end at ten, and it ended at ten-thirty. And I was upset, because we were going to go to Veggie Heaven afterwards. But Veggie Heaven closes at eleven, and also there was no parking. I'm like, things like that I'm—and I'm like—
THERAPIST: Frustration tolerance is really low.
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: Or lower than usual.
CLIENT: Yeah. (pause) And I don't know if it's Sydney, or... it's been other things too, and I just—yeah. And I don't know, maybe it's the whole job stress. Because I haven't heard—originally, when I went to the interview on Tuesday, like, I thought it went well. But I wasn't sure. Because she didn't even ask me that many questions. Because I was like, I guess she was saving those questions. Like the librarians were going to ask. And one of the questions, I really was like, "Oh, tell me about a time when you've had troubles with a patron." and I was like, "Actually, I haven't really had that many patrons." And I did internal reference, so I was working with other museum staff, and they were all really, really nice to me. So I couldn't really give her a good answer to that. And like, you know, there was one that was like, "How would you deal with, like, all of these different people at the reference desk at once?" And I was like, "Well, I'd find out what they all wanted." You know, I guess I made the implicit assumption that they'd all got there at the same time and wouldn't just take them on first come first serve. I'll find out what they want, I'll do it in order. You know, something that's a two-second question, like "Where is the bathroom?"—obviously I can do that first because it will take two seconds. Other than that, I guess whoever seems the most impatient and in a rush, you know, serve them first so I can get them out of the way, and have the other people be less agitated by not being around someone who's agitated or rushed. And she was like, "Well, like, how would you be able to tell?" I'm like, "They'd be acting rude and be visibly impatient? Usually that's how you tell?!" So she was like, "Yeah, fair enough." And so like, the other questions, you know, she didn't really have that much to ask me. Like, that was pretty much it for what she asked me. And like, she was like, didn't ask me much about what I did in my previous jobs or anything like that. So, like, you know. And she said she was interviewing ten people. Some of them were actually, like, fun interviews and stuff. So I guess that maybe it was significant that I'm a person that got an interview? And maybe that she would let, like four people would be moving onto the next stage, like meeting with the library staff, and she would let me know by Friday. You know, whether or not—
THERAPIST: As in today?
CLIENT: As in last Friday. And so I was like, "Okay." Because I thought, "Well, you know, that's before Rosh Hashanah," or whatever. And Friday comes, and I've got no answer. Also, I had the nerve thinking of back that day a few hours later. And so on Friday, after business hours at like six, like right before Shabbat, I wrote her another e-mail and I was like, you know, "Have you heard anything yet?" Or something more along the lines, I guess, of, "Have you—do you have any more information about if you've made a decision? Just so you know, if you try to contact me on Monday or Tuesday I won't be answering the phone or e-mail because it's Rosh Hashanah. You know, but I'm still very interested in this job." After Rosh Hashanah, there were no calls, and no e-mails, and nothing yesterday or Wednesday either. And I still haven't heard anything. I thought I was going to find out either way whether or not I had made it. So I don't know if they're being rude, or have other things to do, or they've picked four people and want to see if those four people worked and if they don't then they'll let me know, but they were going to tell me the next day whether or not they've moved on. And they were going to fill it by a week ago. So I'm pretty antsy about waiting to hear, and having not heard back yet. And it was, like, a perfect job for me. You know, a respect like this is what I want to be doing.
THERAPIST: So I wonder if the fact that you haven't heard is impacting how you're responding to other frustrations. Because not hearing is a pretty big frustration.
CLIENT: But I think I was still pretty low on patience before that, so I don't know. Maybe I wasn't as low, but... [00:06:41]
THERAPIST: This may have exacerbated it to a point where it's clearly noticeable.
CLIENT: Yeah. Like I don't know what to do. I don't know if I should send another e-mail. Because, you know, I sent that first one, and I don't want to be too annoying, but...
THERAPIST: Yeah, it sounds like you've done good follow-up. You've sent your thank you, then inquired on Friday when you hadn't heard anything.
CLIENT: And then if it's a week later, should I send one more inquiry? Or should I just let it go and assume that I didn't get it unless I hear otherwise?
THERAPIST: What would—what would inquiring again do?
CLIENT: I guess let her know that I'm still interested in it, or possibly remind her if she has the information and just didn't give it to me. I don't know, I just feel like maybe I should but then I feel like maybe I shouldn't. Because I didn't want to bother.
THERAPIST: She didn't respond to your e-mail.
CLIENT: Yeah. She responded to my thank you note but didn't respond to the e-mail I sent last Friday. So... I don't know. I guess it could have gotten lost in the rush of things. I sent it after business hours, and like, by Monday or Tuesday it could have, you know. But then again, it's been a week. It's really unprofessional to say you'll respond at a certain time and then not respond at all even a week after that time. Especially if you say you're going to respond either way.
THERAPIST: And she said she'd respond either way?
CLIENT: Yes. I'm pretty sure. I guess it's been over—it's been a week and a half now, so I could be misremembering. But I thought she was going to let me know. Because when she responded to my thank you, she was like, "You know, we'll let you know as soon as we have more information." And presumably they must have come across some information now. You know, presumably they contacted the people they were going to interview. I don't know.
THERAPIST: It's a hard situation. I don't know, you know—I'm not a career coach, so I don't know about the etiquette about inquiring again is. It needs to be your decision on what feels right.
CLIENT: Yeah. Because I know it kind of can be like, "You should call!" Which I don't actually have a phone number anyways. And I'm like, "No, I shouldn't call." "You should send another e-mail! You should send an e-mail every single hour of every single day, until I find out!"
THERAPIST: And that feels like a bit much for you?
CLIENT: Sure. I mean, maybe not every hour but maybe ask every other day of the week. That's something I think they'd say.
THERAPIST: Badgering to you.
CLIENT: That feels badgering to me. I'd get pissed off if I was getting e-mails every other day about something. [00:09:21]
Yeah. I guess it was just that, and then the whole waiting for the letter, and it came up on the 30 days for, like, health insurance. And when I talked to the—because they called the guy today, and he was—at the office, he was like, "Oh, send it in packed. We have this form that you should print out, and send the cover feed if you can." And he said that by faxing it in today it should be fine, and I don't even need to apply for a hearing, I can just fax in that sheet of paper—you know, with, like, my relevant information on it. So... which means I guess maybe they'll just reconsider the decision and I won't actually have to go down to court, or whatever it is that they have the hearing at. Because that seems really nerve-wracking, and... something I didn't want to do.
THERAPIST: So there's a lot that you've been—I mean, you've not just been waiting for this phone call, you've been waiting for the insurance and the letter.
CLIENT: I've been waiting for this letter. Until then I'll get done asking me. You know, I went down there in person last week, on Tuesday, after my interview. I was [xx], and while I was [xx], I went down there and talked to the financial officer. And she said she'd write me a letter, and she was waiting on it because stuff about wording it and not wanting me to open a whole can of worms with like the university Hillel and—because she was also confused on the point that it didn't understand that A, the Hillel wasn't the university, and B, that they don't give insurance to people who are only working there five hours a week. Like they also don't give insurance to employees who are working there twenty hours a week. Like, they only give insurance to their full-time employees. It feels like standard practice, in the fact that, I only make 1200 a year, of course they're not going to give me insurance. The insurance would cost them more than that. So, like, no one gets benefits there but people that are above their salary, as far as I know. Maybe in some weird industry they do. But a reasonable person should have been able to figure that out without me having to get that letter. But yeah, waiting on the letter was so nerve-wracking and I have it in my purse right now.
THERAPIST: Yeah. So I think that, that that feeling of being nerve-wracked, that's—you've been waiting on that for a while.
CLIENT: For months. (pause)
THERAPIST: That really wears you down, and the resources for coping with everything else. I think with like, you know, having your boyfriend be late, or being hungry and having it be really inconvenient to get something to eat, your resources for coping with those kinds of frustrations are really limited when so much energy is going toward waiting on the letter, being nervous about the health insurance, waiting on a response from the interview. I also noticed that you're wearing your brace today, which you haven't been the last couple of sessions. So I'm wondering if your pain is worse or your back—
CLIENT: I think it was more I was using the computer this morning without the wrist brace, so I decided to put it on. Now I'm feeling fine.
THERAPIST: Okay.
CLIENT: Also, it's good for me to wear it while I'm driving, and I drove down here. So... I think...
THERAPIST: So it's not that your pain is worse.
CLIENT: I don't think so. I mean, it was hurting a lot yesterday but I think in general, I think it's at the same level? I don't know. It's not that noticeable. [00:12:57]
THERAPIST: So you said you're feeling angry about things more quickly than you normally would.
CLIENT: More frustrated, yes.
THERAPIST: More frustrated. What's your mood like?
CLIENT: (pause) I feel like it can be okay, but then it gets... I just get frustrated again, it's just, I don't know. I guess I've also been feeling, like I've had more suicidal thoughts because of the whole feeling like I'll never get a job and never get health insurance, and like, therefore I'm not worth anything and therefore I might as well just die weak because it would make it easier on everyone.
THERAPIST: You might as well just die.
CLIENT: Yeah. Because I can't see anything worth looking forward to right now, because everything just sucks. And I'll never get a job at the rate I'm going. (crying)
THERAPIST: How frequently are you having thoughts like that?
CLIENT: Usually at night, usually daily at least, if not moreso. Like I still haven't gotten to the point where I'm formulating a plan or anything like that, but...
THERAPIST: When those thoughts come, how long do they stick around? How long do you consider them?
CLIENT: At least a few minutes, I think.
THERAPIST: And then what happens after that?
CLIENT: They go away, eventually. Usually it's when Sydney is around and he tells me I shouldn't, and then I have a nice long argument with him. Because he's all like, "You're not like that, you're useful, you're not giving me any proof, you're just saying you're not useful and you're not saying why." Tell me a reason why I'm actually useful. And he never does. And—which, of course, appeals more to my believing that I am right—which I think so, because he never has a good counterargument, so of course I'm right. And so...
THERAPIST: As we sit here today, do you still think you're right, or is that more of an in the moment thing?
CLIENT: I don't know, I go back and forth on it. Like some part of me thinks that, "Okay, some day I will get a job," but it's been so long. And so hopeless. And I thought this job was perfect for me, and I thought I did well on the in-person interview, and like, got my outfit together and everything, and like, you know, tried to be friendly and personable and answer all my questions, and I guess maybe the whole, "I don't know, I don't have that much patron experience," you know? Like I didn't reveal the fact that I actually only worked on one reference case, total. I just said the work that I did was at the museum, it was for the museum staff, they were all very nice to me.
THERAPIST: Sounds like a good answer.
CLIENT: Yeah. Because the last thing you want to do is complain about problem patrons. But, like, I guess maybe she would have wanted a more, like, concrete, "Oh, I helped him with this, and this, and this," and I was too on the spot to lie, and I didn't want to lie. And I would have had to fudge a lot to come up with something that was even half true to answer that question, and that half truth would be, we did have this crazy half-Spanish researcher who had come two summers ago, and was there at the very end of my time there last summer, two summers ago he asked for copies of all the resources, he wanted copies of everything, pretty much copies of the entire archive and stuff. And I guess I could have said how he had come back this year, and my staff and I, you know, the rest of the team, we all dealt with him in a pleasant manner. Because he was also an important donor and stuff like that, so... I forget why we had to put up with him, but... But the thing is, he came in maybe like my last week of work, and I never really dealt with him. I was like, you know, there was the reading room, door was closed, I was inside the review, I could see him.
THERAPIST: But you didn't interact with him.
CLIENT: I didn't interact with him at all. He was like totally fine with me when I did interact with him, so it never occurred to me that I could have called him a angry patron. And I don't even know, I guess what they did is, they give him some stuff, and then you know, reacted politely while grumbling behind his back about how annoying he was, which I couldn't really give that as an answer either. So I can't—he's crazy Spanish researcher who's crazy, and he didn't even come up because I haven't had that experience with the patron. He's not my patron. He's just some dude who wanted to use the reading room and look up stuff, and yeah. So maybe they could have wanted someone with more experience, but they at least could have sent me a letter that said, "Oh, we picked people with more experience."
THERAPIST: Yeah, you would have a better sense of finality and understanding whereas right now you're still sort of left hanging.
CLIENT: I'm going crazy, like I haven't found any other jobs worth applying to in the past couple of weeks and I mean, I guess I'll have to apply to the ones that are more of a long shots or other ones...
THERAPIST: Have you been still looking?
CLIENT: I've been still looking.
THERAPIST: Good for you.
CLIENT: Yeah. I haven't really applied to anything since that interview, or since I like, got that interview really. So it's been a couple of weeks now that I haven't applied. Because—And, also, Jewish holidays, but yeah. I did want to talk to—when I was talking to the Hillel person today getting the letter because she had to type me a new one for me because she wanted to reword it again.
THERAPIST: This is the Hillel lady?
CLIENT: The Hillel lady. She was all like, "Oh, what are you doing here when you're not here and not [xx] and stuff?" And I was like, "Oh, I'm out volunteering as marketing," I said, "but it's so well I'd be looking for more permanent librarian archive jobs." And so she actually mentioned that, oh, Hillel could totally use an archivist, and—well, they have to ask about funding and stuff, and you know—
THERAPIST: This is something to follow up on.
CLIENT: Something, yeah. So she has a yoke and she's totally going to ask about it, yeah. But I don't want to get my hopes up because I'm afraid it's going to lead to nowhere, because they need funding. It would only be part-time anyway, so I'd still have to deal with like, health insurance stuff. But—
THERAPIST: But it could be something to add on, or to add onto a resume if you could do something part-time.
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: Or a limited project.
CLIENT: And I think it would be paying more than, like, a beginning from [xx]. Because [xx] is only ten dollars an hour.
THERAPIST: You've really networked.
CLIENT: Sort of.
THERAPIST: No, you did!
CLIENT: I accidentally have, right? I guess I could e-mail her and send her my resume, just in case she wants it.
THERAPIST: I'm proud. Since you accidentally networked, maybe intentionally following up on it, since it's an opening... you know, she said—this is something they can use, they need to find funding, you could probably offer to help with writing a grant?
CLIENT: Maybe. If there are grants they'd be applicable for. They might have something for it, for part time that is.
THERAPIST: So some—definitely something to follow up on, because even if they don't have something they could offer full time or with benefits, if they could find something that's time-limited or part time, you know? It's something to add onto your resume for experience. [00:20:39]
CLIENT: Yeah. It's just, like—
THERAPIST: It's an opening.
CLIENT: It's an opening, if it happens, which I don't know that it will. And that just, like—because I really don't want to be dependent on my parents anymore. And it's like, getting frustrating to be dependent.
THERAPIST: Yeah. There's another thing eating away at your ability to cope with other stressors.
CLIENT: Like at least at this point I know I'm not, like, super-strapped for cash because of the, like, closing on the house happened.
THERAPIST: Oh, good.
CLIENT: So if I ever tell, it's there, they have sold the house. They have paid off the mortgage on the new house, they are no longer paying tons of money for anything. And they certainly spend way less than, like, either of them makes. So—
THERAPIST: So you feel a little bit less guilty about asking them?
CLIENT: A little bit. It's just that my dad is a little more annoying about it, the fact that they think I can just magically come up with a job, and... like (pause) I can't magically come up with a job. And they just... I don't want to be (crying), you know, just sitting around all day not doing anything. That's kind of frustrating too. Like...
THERAPIST: It's very hard, to feel like you have a purpose.
CLIENT: Well, I'm also sort of scared with the whole health safety net stuff. Because the fact that you only go to these certain hospitals. What happens if I leave the state and get hurt? You know, then I'll end up having to spend, like, thousands of dollars on medical bills or something, and does that mean I can never leave the state again? I left for the wedding, and I'm going again to this wedding that Sydney was invited to, and that I was also invited to in October. Which I also might have to switch an appointment around for.
THERAPIST: Okay.
CLIENT: But, um, like, maybe I shouldn't, because if I, like got hurt somehow... Like I didn't get hurt when I was at the wedding, you know, but I, like had to keep on putting off doing the follow-up appointment for my hand. And I just sort of cancelled it, because I was just like, you know, I don't know when I'll get insurance, it might be never. It might be a really long time and—I don't even know. Maybe it covers a general physical for preventative care but that's it. Like the other things. Like I was doing worse last week because I had my period, and like, I'm sick of that. Because I did the whole pill. And the problem is I had switched to the Blue Cross... well, I guess they're both—when I switched to the insurance that Sam is offered they stopped paying for my Seasonique, which is the one that lets you get your period every—
THERAPIST: Four times a year.
CLIENT: Yes, four times a year. Then what my doctor did, is he gave me my—prescribed me another one that's like, for two months, take just the active pills on the third month and take the placebo pills afterward but somehow it sort of got messed up when I transferred the prescriptions over to the health center—Hospital. And now they're saying they're not going to let me, like, renew it often enough that I can not get my period. And that scares me, like getting it. And I was like, "Okay, well, maybe I can get a hormonal IUD or something," which I don't know how they're going to start it, it would be really painful, but even if they did, that would be really expensive and I don't have insurance so they can't do that either. And, like, I don't know what to do. I don't want to get my period every month. I'll go crazy. Every month. Instead of every three months. (crying)
THERAPIST: What is it like when you get your period, emotionally?
CLIENT: My frustration level is even, you know, my threshold is even lower than it is with all the other worries, and I'm miserable and cramping, and just keep on wanting to die, and I hate everything, And I just want my period over. So there is a reason why I try to get it less often. (sniffling)
THERAPIST: Sounds like that's part of what's contributing to...
CLIENT: Possibly, but I think it's bad when it's on my period too.
THERAPIST: Yeah, sounds like it's been getting—getting worse...
CLIENT: And I don't have my period anymore.
THERAPIST: ... a perfect storm of things building up.
CLIENT: Yeah. Like, I don't have my period anymore but I still feel crazy.
THERAPIST: Still crazy, I get it.
CLIENT: So, like, I don't know. But I'm sure it didn't help when I had my period, and it just sucked. And now I think—like because they didn't write in the description why they put it through. Like I take the active pills for two months and—
THERAPIST: And how many—right now, how many months do you have?
CLIENT: I have ten refills that I have. But I don't know that they'll let me refill it after three weeks.
THERAPIST: I see.
CLIENT: After four weeks. Especially because my old insurance wouldn't refill things a week early. But I guess I could do it out of pocket or something, or see about transferring because I'm paranoid, but I just transferred a prescription, I don't want to have to transfer it again, and then have to go to two different locations to get my prescriptions. And I don't know if Planned Parenthood would let me renew it that often either. And if I planned to see a doctor there, and—to talk about it, and I would probably have to have him transfer that. (sniffling) I don't know. Some insurances require it, some don't. I don't know which one Summerville is like.
THERAPIST: I could call and find the details of that. You know, you could look before and see what was available.
CLIENT: Yeah. (pause)
THERAPIST: Well, it's a lot of projecting now. What if, what if, what if? What if they won't let you renew it in three weeks instead of four? What if the insurance doesn't come through by then, meaning insurance might come through by then? Three weeks from now might be a different story.
CLIENT: Well, it's less than three weeks from now, because like it's, I took the—I waited a little bit on the pills, so I actually only have like two active weeks left so I have to refill it in two weeks. So... And the insurance is not going to go through in two weeks. Like I could guarantee it will not go through in two weeks. (pause, sighs) So... (pause) that's not going to get fixed. You know, and also the fact that they cut off some, because I had fourteen refills and then, like, when they transferred it in they were like, "Too many refills." And then they put it in, with like, ten refills left. And even if you...
THERAPIST: Have you ever asked to be able to fill two at once? Two month's worth at once? What if you were going away on a trip?
CLIENT: Well, then I'd be screwed. Um, I know that... well, when I was on Blue Cross they wouldn't, because, like, one time the prescription was actually written so it filled like three months at once, and they would only fill one of it but they didn't make the extra refills, so it only had like four refills, or three refills of it, because it was supposed to be three refills of, like, three sets. In three packs. Which was really messed up, and I didn't even realize that at first, but I guess I eventually figured it out or someone told me, but yeah, you can only get one month at a time. So I don't know—what I'm thinking if Health Safety Net is even less covering of things. I doubt they'll let me fill more—get more than one at a time.
And it was such a pain, when I put it in I'd have to wait an hour. You can call like 24 hours in advance to get your stuff refilled, but you have to wait—24 hours in advance. Like CVS, you can call one hour in advance. So...
THERAPIST: I'm afraid it's going to require a little planning. Thinking ahead.
CLIENT: Yeah. I'm trying to minimize my trips to there as much as possible, but... (pause) yeah, I don't know what to do about the whole needing to get my (pause) drugs sooner than they think I do, which is why, you know... If there would be a way for them to get it in, if they could put me to sleep somehow or something to get the IUD in, like I'd rather have that because then it'd be a constant dose of hormones and I'd get my period less often, and I wouldn't have to worry about running out of pills.
THERAPIST: Well, I guess before you consider that, you need to have the insurance thing worked out, and then have a conversation with your gynecologist about whether that's something that's a possibility for you.
CLIENT: Yeah. (pause) People talk about insurance in that like you get multiple months' worth of birth control pills.
THERAPIST: There are some prescription plans that let you order three months at a time.
CLIENT: Oh, online? Oh, yeah, I think it was actually—yeah, I got a letter from them at Blue Cross the same day or the day after I got a letter from Blue Cross saying, "Oh, by the way, yes, your insurance is ending." And I was like, "God, my insurance is ending, so I can't really do this. And I have no proof Health Safety Net does this, and I don't want to have to transfer only to have to transfer again.
THERAPIST: Right, you're sort of in limbo here because you don't know what you're going to...
CLIENT: I'm sick of transferring prescriptions. Like, I really don't want to transfer more prescriptions. But I know I'll have to at some point.
THERAPIST: I understand wanting to minimize the switching, and wanting to feel like you know what to expect. And right now there's so little that you can really know what to expect.
CLIENT: Yeah. I don't know how to make myself less frustrated with things. Because now that the things I'm frustrated about, they're big under. Like these are things I can solve.
THERAPIST: Right, so much is under your control. Do you think that's why you feel so frustrated? And so these are the times where, in the past, instead of solving the problems, because a lot is out of your control in terms of problem-solving right now? So it's about kind of getting your resources (pause) buoyed up. So this is a time where it would be helpful for you to take walks, get lots of fresh air and sunlight, make sure you're eating well and you're not hungry because when you're hungry, you tend to get more easily upset about things. This is the time to take really good care of yourself. And do that, and you have more resources to cope with this uncertainty and all of these things that are not in your control.
CLIENT: I guess I just think I don't have those underlying resources anymore. I just don't get enough from anything at this point.
THERAPIST: Some of those things are under your control.
CLIENT: Some of them.
THERAPIST: You can make yourself healthy meals. Fulfilling meals. You can put on a pair of sneakers and go for a walk. Those are things you can do. And even though sometimes it's hard to get yourself going in that way, experience has shown us together that you tend to feel better when you do those things. Even when you don't feel like doing them.
CLIENT: Yeah, the problem is I don't really have anyone to walk with right now, because Sydney is still a pre-med student. Like we still haven't started running yet.
THERAPIST: You know, you can walk by yourself. It's perfectly light out.
CLIENT: And perfectly boring, and perfectly sucky, and makes me not want to do it, because then I'm just walking for no good reason.
THERAPIST: Well, actually walking for a very good reason.
CLIENT: Okay, but I'm just walking.
THERAPIST: Yep.
CLIENT: With nothing to do.
THERAPIST: What would you be doing instead?
CLIENT: Internetting.
THERAPIST: Does that make you feel better?
CLIENT: At least it has something to talk about right behind. To like read something or whatever. (pause) And if I had places I needed to go, I could walk, that would be one thing. But like, usually things are either too far away or if they're really close, they're, "Okay, I walked for two minutes in each direction, that's nothing." Like, for five minutes in each direction, that's ten minutes walking, that's still not much either.
THERAPIST: Do you ever listen to music or a book on tape, or a podcast?
CLIENT: I guess I need to figure out where the hell my iPod is that I haven't used in years and I don't have headphones for it anymore, because they've broken. And like carrying, figuring a way to carry it around. (pause) I'm also sort of very picky that something will catch me unaware that like, I'll have to cross the street or something, like that just doesn't seem like a good idea.
THERAPIST: Yeah, and you'd have to be more cognitive of your surroundings, or choosing a place where it was safe for you to be distracted. Because certainly doing that is more holding to yourself, and if you're walking with someone else, you tend to stay more aware of your surroundings.
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: But there are things that you can do to lift your spirits so you can cope with the things that you have to cope with. And it's up to you to decide what you're going to take advantage of and what you're not. (pause) Like, I can't make you take a walk, I can't make you get something healthy to eat. But I know from having worked with you that those are things that have helped you to—not solve your problems, but helped you to cope with them. And to feel a little bit better as you weed things out.
CLIENT: It's just also the fact that the waiting is indefinite.
THERAPIST: You are. You've been waiting for a long time.
CLIENT: Like, I don't even know what's the point of coming up with all these things because they'll never get fixed. Like if I never get a job, I can go on all the walks ever and I'll still be dependent on my parents. And I really don't want that.
THERAPIST: I can understand that.
CLIENT: I really, really don't want that.
THERAPIST: The problem with being human is that we don't know what's going to happen in the future. We don't know that you're never going to get a job. We don't know when, or if. We don't know.
CLIENT: I think maybe three years or something. I don't want to wait three years, you know, until people are collecting unemployment because they've worked before. And I'm not collecting unemployment. Like all I'm doing is sitting around costing money. (pause)
THERAPIST: You're looking for a job.
CLIENT: Eventually.
THERAPIST: Give yourself credit for doing what you can, and then do what you can. So your job today is to follow up on the Hillel stuff.
CLIENT: And then fax in the letter.
THERAPIST: And fax in the letter.
CLIENT: Because I need to do that.
THERAPIST: Yep. Can you do both of those things today?
CLIENT: Probably.
THERAPIST: Well, then, that's your job today. (pause) [00:38:25]
CLIENT: Then it's just all so big companies involved are happening to me. It makes me even less motivated to write more cover letters, and I hate writing cover letters so much. But, like, there's no way around it.
THERAPIST: Nope. You can't get a job without doing that, or some hardcore networking. You've got to do one or the other.
CLIENT: Apparently if I worked in a different field I wouldn't have to. Because Sydney is like, has these two recruiters now, because like they will have him, figures. They're all like, "Sydney! You should talk to recruiters." but they're specifically tech recruiters and they're like [xx] and so he has to solve problems like the one that he was working on now in order to get this interview, and it's a really hard problem.
THERAPIST: So it's a different version, right? You have to write cover letters, he has to do homework.
CLIENT: The homework isn't something real, and he doesn't always have to do it. It's not for every company, just some companies make you do that, some don't. But he doesn't have to write any cover letters. Not a single cover letter. He's working with recruiters, and these are people who are like, "Oh, we have all these different jobs that you'd be qualified for. You know, we're going to get you one of those jobs." And like, there aren't recruiters in my field, and I feel like such an idiot for going into my field. Because there are no recruiters.
THERAPIST: But you like it.
CLIENT: Yeah, but it doesn't matter. If I can't do it anyways, if I don't have a job, then I'm just sitting around doing nothing. So it would be better to have a job that I don't like than to sit around and do nothing all day. If it was a job that had benefits and stuff. But, like, there isn't. So all I can do is sit around and wait. (pause) Really, really sucks.
THERAPIST: You're in a really hard place. And you've been here longer than you want to be.
CLIENT: If I had a cover letter generator or something that would just write me a cover letter, and, you know, type, "These are the different traits that I want addressed." And then it would pull up these paragraphs addressing the different job responsibilities that I'm saying I have experience in. And then I could, like, edit it somehow.
THERAPIST: And then if you could invent it, then other people would use it.
CLIENT: Yeah. Except I don't know how to program!
THERAPIST: So I guess you're stuck writing your cover letters.
CLIENT: Yeah. I mean, I do a lot of copy and pasting.
THERAPIST: Yeah. At this point you must have a lot that you can pick and choose from, put together in the way that you need them to be put together.
CLIENT: Yeah, I just like, I guess I could put them all together in one giant letter. Because I keep on having to go through and go, this one, this one, this one—
THERAPIST: Recall which job was a better fit than another.
CLIENT: Oh yeah, like which letter that I've written before is like similar to the one I've written, with the right paragraphs. And then I have to actually remember what I've applied for and stuff, so... change the rest of it. Maybe I should just do a document that has all the different job-related paragraphs that I have.
THERAPIST: That might help you streamline the process, or even printing out a hard copy of a couple of the different genres, so that you can see, oh, this one is for a job that has these requirements.
CLIENT: Maybe, but I think the computer would be better, because then I'd have to retype it, so...
THERAPIST: Yeah, you'd have to retype it.
CLIENT: Copying and pasting seems a lot easier. And then I just put it in one giant document. And then, like, if I'm in a different location I can still—
THERAPIST: Well, if you feel—if that would be helpful to you, maybe it's worth spending some time, you know, doing that, creating a giant document of all the ones that you've written.
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: Something that would facilitate greater ease in coming up with the next ones.
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: I think staying active, staying moving, whether it's moving in terms of making things easier for yourself or physical movement, I think that will help you kind of move through this feeling, of feeling pretty hopeless. (pause) And find new ways you're not just sitting there. Because if you're just sitting there, that's when these thoughts take a lot of space in your head, and these feelings get really big. (pause)
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: You said you wanted to change a date in October so you could take a minute to look at our calendars before you go?
CLIENT: Okay, let's look at my calendar... (pause) So... (pause) So it would be Friday the fifth that, I can't do that.
THERAPIST: Okay.
CLIENT: I'm not sure what to change it since, like, the eighth... well I guess I could just come in on [xx] and just, like walk here.
THERAPIST: It's up to you. I could give you a time on the eighth if you wanted.
CLIENT: Hm. (pause) (mumbling) I'd still be going two weeks without it. Do you have anything on October first? Or is that all booked up now?
THERAPIST: Nope, I can give you, um... either, uh... 12:30 or 1:30.
CLIENT: I'll take the 1:30 for that.
THERAPIST: Okay.
CLIENT: And I guess could I also do the eighth?
THERAPIST: Yep.
CLIENT: Also at 1:30?
THERAPIST: Yep. (pause)
CLIENT: Okay.
THERAPIST: And we have scheduled Monday as well, this coming Monday. At 1:30.
CLIENT: Yeah. Just [xx] the holiday. This blackout.
THERAPIST: Okay, so I'll see you Monday. Okay?
CLIENT: Yeah.
END TRANSCRIPT
<script type="text/javascript">
&lt;!--
function __showhidenote(id){document.getElementById(id).style.display=(document.getElementById(id).style.display=='none')?'':'none';}
//--&gt;
</script>
<br /><br /><center><a href="#top">back to top</a></center>

