<font size="4"><b>One: Demerol</b></font>
[p. <i>[17]</i>]

Late in the fall of 1949, while
serving as a resident doctor in the tuberculosis division of
Boston City Hospital, I suffered an attack of swelling and pain
in my right foot. My condition was diagnosed as gout, a disease
with ludicrous associations of old-fashioned gentlemen,
outthrust legs and immense bandages. But I was only twenty-nine
and in no mood for laughter. Unable so much as to think
of enduring bed rest in the dreary, solitary quarters I occupied
atop the grimy red brick hospital building, I limped from
room to room, from ward to ward, in almost unbearable agony.
For the first time in my life I entertained the idea of using a
narcotic upon myself. Earlier in the year I had undergone a
hemorrhoidectomy, following which the attending surgeon
had given me several injections of demerol, and I could still
recall the pleasant transformation of feeling which had followed
each of these injections.


At the end of the third day of the gout attack I decided to
try some demerol. I filled a syringe with 3 c.c. of the drug and
placed it on the telephone table next to my bed.

[p. <i>18</i>]

I undressed slowly, taking extraordinary care in the removal
of my right shoe so as not to aggravate the shiny red throbbing
area which pressed against its inner surface. Grimacing, I recalled
the recent past through a haze of pain. For the last day
and a half every nerve within me had seemed to radiate from
my afflicted foot. None of the "specific" medication I had used
had done any good. I had only experienced some slight relief
from immersing the foot in cold running water.


Seated on the edge of the bed, prepared to use the syringe, I
thought only of the agony I was about to blot out; the ethical
wrong involved in administering a narcotic to myselfthat
could hardly concern me. As I picked up the syringe and
dabbed my arm with an alcohol pledget, I had a sensation of
distaste, perhaps mixed with fear, at the idea of plunging the
needle deep into my arm. However, my suffering overcame
every other feeling. Biting my lip, I held the syringe poised
high for just a second before making the rapid yet fateful
downward stroke that would change the course of my life
beyond belief.


The needle caused a sharp pain as it pierced the skin and
entered the muscle of my arm; pushing down on the plunger
caused a queer stinging sensation. When I had withdrawn the
needle, I pressed the alcohol pledget tightly over the puncture
wound to stop the bleeding and to ease the discomforting
stinging. The bleeding stopped, I turned off the light and
climbed into bed to await the cessation of pain, making certain
meanwhile that the weight of the blanket and bed linens was
away from the inflamed foot.


Within a few minutes I began to feel my abdomen tightening;
my mouth had a dry, metallic taste and the skin around it
tingled. There was a strange lightness in my head and a feeling

[p. <i>19</i>]

The shrill jangling of the phone awoke me. While shaking
my head to clear the fuzziness, I wondered how long the
phone had been ringing. It was 3:40 now. Speaking to the
nurse on the other end of the line about a patient who had
suddenly started to cough blood, I thought of how indistinct
everything appeared, how hoarse my voice sounded and how
dry my mouth felt. Assuring the nurse that I would see the
patient at once, I jumped out of bed and winced in sudden
agony. I dressed hastily and hobbled out to the ward, thinking
along the way of how quickly my head had cleared.


There were a few moments of uncertainty while I spoke to
the nurse, but when I realized that she had apparently noticed
nothing peculiar about me, my confidence and composure
returned. It took the better part of an hour to attend the
patient; by the time I was done my foot was once more a
glowing furnace. I obtained another 3 c.c. of demerol, returned
to my room and gave myself another injection. In bed I idly
watched the aura formed by my cigarette in the darkness,
while I waited for the narcotic to take effect.


Before long I again felt the abdominal, mouth and head
symptoms, although now the nausea was more severe and I
retched for a short while. Then the pain disappeared and I felt
comfortable and carefree, aware of the drowsiness seeping
through me. I snuffed out my cigarette in the ashtray and
waited for the embrace of oblivion.


When I awoke later in the morning, my arm was sore. My
mouth was dry, my muscles were stiff and I felt groggy and

[p. <i>20</i>]

The severe pain continued for five days and, in order to
subdue it, I slipped back into my room three times a day to
give myself an injection of demerol. Besides a fourth injection
which I administered at bedtime, I took one or two more injections
whenever the pain awoke me during the night. Within
a few days I was using about 15 c.c. of demerol a day.


When the pain diminished I did not stop: it seemed foolish
to suffer any amount of discomfort when I could allay it so
easily. I did not take any demerol during the day that the pain
disappeared completely. But the following night, after being
awakened by a call, I gave myself an injection in order to fall
asleep again.


Through the next few days I used the narcotic only at
night, for insomnia. But reasons began to present themselves
for which I would need it during the day as well: a severe
headache, nervousness, annoyance over some professional
disagreement at a conference, or mental depression. It was simpler
to take an injection and forget than to face such unpleasantnesses.


Three weeks after the initial injection I was again using 3
c.c. of demerol four to six times a day.


Two weeks later, no longer receiving an adequate effect
from this dosage, I increased the dosage to 4 c.c. This change
brought with it a distressing side effect. After hurrying to my
room and administering the drug, I would sometimes awaken
later to find myself sitting in a chair, slumped over my desk,
the needle sticking in my arm, the syringe still containing

[p. <i>21</i>]

And so it happened. One night I awakened to find one of
the affiliating residents trying to rouse me from sleep; the
incriminating syringe and bottle were in plain view on my
desk. Somehow I managed to convince my visitor that I had
been suffering a great deal with my gout and had merely
taken a single shot to ease the pain.


Gradually, I became aware of a number of symptoms which
could only have been produced by prolonged use of demerol:
constant pallor, loss of appetite, irritability and emotional
lability. Any one of a multitude of ordinary problems was
enough to upset me and make me want to scream. Guilt and
fear of exposure, in addition to the direct antisocial effects of
the drug, caused me to spend all of my leisure time in the confines
of my room, hiding from and shunning people as much
as possible I stopped going out entirely. At mealtimes I arrived
in the dining room either very early or very late in order
to be able to eat alone. I retreated from all conversations. The
only people I still seemed able to get along with were the
patients, with whom I spent sometimes eighteen or twenty
hours a day. In my room I turned off the light as soon as possible
to discourage visitors.


At hospital conferences, which occurred once a week, I
took a seat in a back row to avoid being observed. Even so, I
often became extremely argumentative, vociferously disagreeing
with many of the statements of the other doctors as if
they represented personal attacks on me. Medically and morally,

[p. <i>22</i>]

In the latter part of February, 1950, I paid a week-end visit
to some friends in Saranac Lake, New York. Without thought
of whether or not I might need it, I brought along an ample
supply of demerol together with the equipment for administering
it. On Saturday night I attended a party. There was a lot
of liquor, and although since taking demerol I had developed
a definite aversion for alcohol, I drank all evening, perhaps in
an attempt to recapture some lost sense of social being. Not
long before, I had been the one to drive everybody home;
now I became sloppily drunk and knocked a pile of records
from a table, smashing them to pieces. The next morning I
experienced my first blackout and was unable to recall anything
that had happened in the latter part of the evening.
Driving back to Boston Sunday afternoon, I became aware of
an inner voice warning me that the worst still lay ahead.


Although there were no further indications for the use of
demerol, I continued to take it, becoming ever more secretive
and apprehensive. At times I was sure that no one suspected;
at other times I was just as positive that there must be someone
who knew. I had frequent nightmaresfrom which I awoke
to put myself to sleep again with demerol. At no time did I
consider the idea of abstinence: I scarcely thought in terms of
addiction and nonaddiction, and I felt quite certain that I
could stop any time if I desired to do so.


One afternoon in March of 1950, I awoke suddenly to find
three of my fellow residents standing over my bed. After explaining
how they had been attracted by my sobbing and
screaming, they informed me that they knew I had been
taking demerol regularly for some time. Despite the fact that

[p. <i>23</i>]

At first I stubbornly refused. It was abhorrent to me to
admit that I was addicted and needed help. Furthermore, I
dreaded the consequences of being exposed as an addictthe
scandal, shame, losing my job, my life and future medical
career ruined.


There would be no scandal, my colleagues assured me. They
had thought it all out. I would be placed in a private room and
a false diagnosis would be recorded on my chart. All the facts
would be kept confidential. Besides themselves, only the physician
attending me would know the true nature of my illness.


I yielded, arrangements were made, and I was immediately
transferred to a private room of the medical division in the
main building of the hospital.


The attending physician placed me on a gradual withdrawal
regimen which resulted in complete abstinence by the third
day. It was then that I experienced my first withdrawal symptoms:
sweating, muscle cramps, retching, restlessness and insomnia.
The knowledge that a single injection would end my
agony made it the more difficult to endure. On the fourth day
I had some sort of attack which, though not actually witnessed
by anyone, was described as a withdrawal convulsion. While
sitting on the edge of my bed I suddenly blacked out and fell

[p. <i>24</i>]

Following this incident a conference was held in the corridor
outside my room. Only later was I told that it concerned
the chief medical resident's wish to put me under full bed
restraints. This would be a markedly dangerous procedure to
follow with someone having withdrawal convulsions, which
are similar to epileptic seizures. Resistance to the straps binding
the patient fast to the bed can result in torn muscles and
broken bones, to say nothing of the terror at being tied down,
which is, of course, exaggerated in one undergoing withdrawal
from drugs. Fortunately, the chief medical resident
was dissuaded by one of his assistants.


On hearing this story, I became aware for the first time of
the unpreparedness of the average physician called upon to
care for a narcotic addict. As a medical student, he is instructed
in dosagehow much of a drug to give, under what circumstances,
and how frequently. But he is not acquainted with
the dangers of the drug itself: never, in the course of his study
program, is he taught how properly to handle an addict or a
patient in withdrawal, and almost never is he properly warned
of the added danger of the drug to the physician, who has it
available.


After a week, all evidence of physical dependence had disappeared
and I felt well enough to become impatient about
my discharge. Hearing my physician come down the corridor,
I fairly exploded in anticipation of leaving. I rattled off my
plans for returning to work, for resuming a normal existence.


My physician regarded me pensively. When I had finished,

[p. <i>25</i>]

Upon my release, he said, I should resign from the staff of
the hospital immediately!

