<font size="4"><b>CHAPTER XIII: Digging Out the Conflicts</b></font>

IN THE present state of our knowledge, the most promising
therapy for the alcoholic is the psychiatric, fortified
by the others according to the patient's needs. The psychiatrist
needs drugs, all the physical aids that he has
found effective, for he must keep his patient sober long
enough to try his own techniques. How he attains this objective
is secondary; it may be by benzedrine or by
the conditioned reflex or by keeping the patient isolated
in a hospital. But it must be done one way or another, for
the psychiatrist can make no progress unless the patient's
mind is cleared of its alcoholic fog.


On one point all physicians agree: a first requisite of
success is that the alcoholic must recognize his condition
and honestly wish to rid himself of his disorder and wish
it for his own sake, not to please his wife or to hold his job
or for any other motive whatsoever. Occasionally chronic
drinkers reach this point without outside help before they
topple down to the last depths. They see that they are
losing a great deal more than they gain from the alcohol
and so are in a frame of mind to take stock of themselves
and do something about their drinking. But the true compulsive
drinker who finds in alcohol a temporary but
none-the-less real panacea for all his anxieties and irritations
clings to it. He doesn't want to be restored until he
suffers so deeply from humiliation and a sense of guilt
that the burden is unbearable. Even when he has hit the

[p. <i>133</i>]

As long ago as Revolutionary times Dr. Benjamin A.
Rush published an annual pamphlet entitled <i>The Effects
of Ardent Spirits upon the Body and Mind</i>. He listed
among the remedies proper to "destroy the desire for
ardent spirits" this same conversion, which he called a
sudden sense of guilt or shame. He tells of a gentleman in
Philadelphia who in a fit of drunkenness attempted to kill
his wife, whom he loved. When he learned how near he had
come to being a murderer he was so shocked that he never
tasted another drop.


Sometimes the incident that gives the alcoholic this enlightenment
seems a trifling one, but it comes at the moment
when he is ready for conversion. One such instance
quoted by Dr. Rush is that of a farmer who always returned
from market drunk and was a menace to his family.
One day, noticing that the sky was clouded over, he did
not stop at the tavern, but hurried home to get in the hay.
When he opened the kitchen door his six-year-old son
called to his mother, "Father has come home and he isn't
drunk." The father was so shamed by his little son that
he stopped drinking.


A third example, which has a humorous twist, is that of
a village toper who had a pet goat that followed him
about. One day the man took the goat into the tavern with
him and drenched the poor creature with liquor. The two

[p. <i>134</i>]

Although there was no psychiatry in his day. Dr. Rush
was a good enough psychologist to list as one of the strongest
means of overcoming the desire for drink the substitution
of another passion or another interest. The late Dr.
Menas Gregory, who did much for alcoholics in building
up the Psychiatric Department of Bellevue, emphasized
this aspect many times. You can't take away alcohol without
finding something to put in its place. You can't leave
a vacuum. The conversion must be to something as well as
<i>from</i> something.


In the past two decades, in which the psychiatrists have
been busy studying the alcoholic personality, they have
learned a great deal from research that helps them in
diagnosis. The Rorschach Test, for instance, although it
did not show them what they were looking for, did uncover
the several easily recognizable types as well as the fact
that alcoholics of all these types have certain characteristics
in common. These ten little ink blots, five of them
black and five colored, plus a trained psychologist, a paper,
and a pencil, give a quick personality "X-ray" of the patient
that is of great diagnostic value. In telling what the
blots look like to him the patient projects himself. By the
way he interprets them, in part or as a whole, by the absence
or presence of color shock and various other reactions,
he uncovers his intelligence, his emotional quotient,

[p. <i>135</i>]

When I took this test I became so interested in it that I
wanted to own a set of the blots and managed to get one,
with which I experimented on my friends. It was fascinating
to see how people whom I suspected of being emotionally
unstable reacted to the red blots, which always
suggested to them blood, or something violent. The color
shock was instantly perceptible.


I made no attempt, of course, to interpret the test in
detail. According to some psychiatrists it distinguishes
between psychotic, neurotic, and feeble-minded drinkers,
the constitutionally inadequately endowed, those who drink
to narcotize maladjustments, and alcoholics who have developed
from social drinkers. But whatever the differences,
the test shows that these drinkers are very much alike
in their emotional disturbancepoor restraint, high ambition
and poor achievement, and a strong disinclination
to accept adult responsibility. Some psychiatrists believe
that another characteristic shown by the tests, the alcoholic's
swing from periods of low tension to high tension,
may have a physiological basis.


The Rorschach Test differs from certain others in that
it is purely an individuality picture and does not attempt
to relate the person tested to others or to his surroundings.
Other tests, which depend on mass production of
statistics, have a different emphasis. One of these, recently
devised by Dr. M. P. Manson of California, is designed to
screen alcoholics from abstainers and temperate drinkers
by a list of questions that can be answered by a simple
"Yes" or "No." Remembering that during the late war

[p. <i>136</i>]

By questioning groups of excessive drinkers and abstainers
of similar income and social levels he worked out
a list of seventy-two questions that throw into vivid contrast
the normal and the alcoholic personalities. Among
them are such diagnostic ones as "I am afraid I will not
be able to sleep at night," "I feel myself alone in the
world," "I often feel guilty without knowing why," "I
often pity myself," "I become sad quickly," etc. The test
pointed up the same neurotic or psychiatric trends that
others have shown to be characteristic of alcoholics: their
emotional swings, their anxiety, their supersensitivity,
their failure to accomplish their objectives, and their resentful
moods, as well as feelings of aloneness and unhappiness
in their personal relationships.


As the theoretical knowledge accumulates, such tests or
surveys are useful in highlighting different angles of the
alcoholic problem. Particularly interesting is a study of
drinking habits made recently by Alcoholics Anonymous
and evaluated by Dr. Jellinek. This developed a fairly
constant drinking history. By the age of twenty-five the
average alcoholic had begun to drink excessively and to
have "black-outs" (being unable to remember what he did
or said after a certain point of his spree). This, according
to Dr. Jellinek, is not a sign that the drinker is an alcoholic;
it is only a danger signal that he is on the way.
A little later the alcoholic begins to "sneak drinks," taking
them on the sly. Some two years after he experiences the
first black-outs he finds that he doesn't stop with the three

[p. <i>137</i>]

Perhaps a year later the alcoholic begins to prescribe
for himself "the hair of the dog," and after this first morning
drink, one, two, or three years later, comes the continuous
drinking. These, according to Dr. Jellinek, mark
the onset of the acute stage of compulsive drinking. Somewhere
near thirty-four the alcoholic begins to feel "unreasonable
resentment" toward anyone or anything that
interferes with his self-importance and at the same time to
suffer from "indefinable fears" and "tremors" and to go
to great lengths to protect his supply of liquor. This is
the beginning of the chronic stage.


It takes an average of another three years (by the time
the alcoholic is about thirty-seven) for the physical effects
of excessive drinking to make their appearance. At this
stage the alcoholic begins to go to the hospital. His rationalizing
has begun to fail him. At thirty-nine or thereabouts
he is usually ready to admit that he needs help.


This is the average age picture. Men who lose control
at a later age shorten up the process by as much as six
years. They reach this lowest point somewhere between
thirty-eight and forty-four years. This survey of Alcoholics
Anonymous makes no effort to delve into the early histories
of alcoholics and try to discover the reason for
drinking, but it does show that there is a definite pattern
of drinking behavior.


All of these statistics are helpful to the psychiatrist in
understanding the alcoholic and they confirm his concept

[p. <i>138</i>]

Particularly interesting, because its roots are so similar
to those of alcoholism, is stammering. Stammering, like alcoholism,
is a symptom of emotional immaturity, or the
tensions of anxiety and insecurity. The National Hospital
for Speech Disorders in New York City, which is doing
research on this ailment, finds that the severity of the
stuttering is often in direct proportion to the tension generated
by the stutterer's fear or anxiety. Stutterers often
speak without the slightest impediment when they are
alone; others stutter only in the classroom, or in the presence
of those who overwhelm them with a feeling of inferiority.
So the hospital is making splendid use of group
therapy, teaching children to speak and sing together.


The similarity first impressed me one winter when I
made the acquaintance of young David, the son of the
neighbors in the apartment next door. David was about
fifteen, a quick, attractive boy who had a passion for
boats, so he used to come in and borrow my books on sailing.
It distressed me that David stuttered. As the winter
lengthened I became much attached to the boy, seeing myself
in him, my early insecurity and anxieties. For although
he was a particularly self-contained youngster, I
noticed that he was always on the alert, as though he were
stiffening himself for some expected attack. Something or
somebody had hurt David and he was constantly on guard.

[p. <i>139</i>]

When I knew David's parents a little better, I talked
about his impediment with them. He had begun to stutter
several years earlier and they never could discover the
reason; he wasn't an unhappy boy; he did well at school
and, as far as they could see, was normal in every way.


I persuaded them to send David to the National Hospital
for Speech Disorders and see what could be done for
him. Under the guidance of the psychiatrist at the hospital
the cause was gradually uncovered. David's father
was a member of a sales force of a large wholesale organization
and was moved frequently from place to place;
consequently David had been dragged out of one school
and put in another in quick successionthree moves between
the fourth and sixth grades. He was a bright child
and had been able to make the adjustment as far as his
studies were concerned, but the adjustment to a new set
of children, the feeling of being continually an outsider,
had been too much of an emotional strain.


The psychiatrist explained the boy's state of anxiety to
his mother in the terms of an experiment made at the University
of Chicago, in which a certain number of hens were
separated from three other similar flocks. Every second
day a new hen was added to the isolated group and an old
hen taken out. In each instance the new hen had to be
pecked by the others and to defend herself before she was
accepted by the flock. As a result it took her some time to
gain weight at a normal rate. Suppose that same hen had
been taken out every few days and put into a new flock.
It was easy to imagine that she would soon be in a state of
nervous exhaustion from pecking herself into so many
new communities.


That's what had happened to David. In each new school

[p. <i>140</i>]

David recovered. He learned to ease his tensions in the
classes in relaxation (Dr. James Sonnett Greene, the director,
is a strong advocate of the use of relaxation) and
he attended Dr. Greene's remarkably successful experiment
in group therapy, a public-speaking club in which
the members practice "acting against their symptoms."
The atmosphere was gay and the speakers laughed at
their own misadventures. Even the songs they sang were
specially written to overcome troublesome words.


There are over twelve million speech and voice cripples
in the United States. According to Dr. Greene, the best
hope for their recovery is broadly that now held out to
alcoholics: psychotherapy, especially group therapy, combined
with all the other physical, chemical, and surgical
aids that have been devised.


This pioneer hospital is making history in the treatment
of stammerers. We have no comparative institution for alcoholics
unless it be the Washingtonian Hospital in Boston
its interesting history will be recounted in a later chapter
but it is natural that our approach should not be
along quite the same lines, for although the roots of the
sicknesses are very much alike, the manifestations are
vastly different. Alcoholism is more damaging to both the
sufferer and his community and is a much more complex
problem, since it has wider social, legal, and public-health
aspects. But it is interesting to compare the two illnesses,
for they are vivid examples of what an early warping or
stunting of our emotional natures can do to both our
bodies and our minds.

