<font size="4"><b>Panic Control Treatment</b></font>
[p. <i>419</i>]

<b>DESCRIPTION OF THE STRATEGY</b>


Panic disorder (PD) is characterized by the sudden
onset of intense fear or discomfort accompanied by various,
and often intense, physical sensations that develop
abruptly and reach their peak within 10 minutes.
Although it is necessary for these attacks to be both
recurrent and unexpected in order to meet diagnostic
criteria for PD, it is clear that even after an initial attack,
most people begin to associate the physical sensations
they experience with a particular event or situation. For
example, if an individual experiences "unexpected"
heart palpitations and shortness of breath in the morning,
they are more likely to associate those symptoms
with the large cup of coffee they drank for breakfast
rather than make no association. Similarly, if an initial
panic attack is experienced while on a crowded subway
during the stress of an early morning rush hour commute,
it is likely that the situation may be subsequently
avoided or endured with dread.


Thus, when people are fearful of activities or
events, they will tend do things that they feel will prevent
the events from occurring. The result is that many
individuals with panic engage in elaborate safety and
avoidance behaviors, such as keeping medications on
hand or leaving a situation before the anxiety can
begin. Because the feared situation is avoided or tolerated
with the aid of a safety behavior, the individual
will usually assume that when the feared event does
not occur, it is the result of these actions rather then
the event's rarity.


For many individuals, the process of experiencing
an "unexpected panic attack" in particular situations is
followed by the subsequent avoidance of those situations
in an attempt to prevent the recurrence of unpleasant
physical sensations. This cycle often results in debilitating
avoidance and eventual treatment-seeking
behaviors. Therefore, it comes as no surprise that the
most effective forms of treatment for PD with/or without
agoraphobia are ones in which the somatic symptoms
of panic are reproduced and experienced acutely
by the individual in such a way that they can reality
test the actual danger of these symptoms, termed <i>interoeptive
exposure</i>. This form of treatment is in contrast
to the typical treatments for PD, which tend to
focus solely on external situations that evoke panic
symptoms (situational exposure).


Thus, much as agoraphobia is avoidance of external
fears and situations, interoceptive avoidance is defined
as the avoidance of situations or activities, such as
exercising or drinking caffeine, in which the individual
is likely to experience feared somatic sensations.


As a result of this new concept and new research
aimed at understanding the importance of interoceptive
cues and avoidance in individuals with PD,
Barlow and Craske developed a new psychological
treatment for PD they called "panic control treatment"
(PCT), which has interoceptive exposure as a central
component of its treatment model and has been met
with wide acceptance by fellow clinicians and sufferers
of panic attacks.


Fundamentally, PCT combines the principles of
traditional situational exposure with the newly developed
interoceptive exposure and psychoeducation
about the physiology of panic, which all work to

[p. <i>420</i>]

<b>Physical Sensations</b>


The physical sensations of panic include shortness
of breath, heart palpitations, chest pain, sweating, and
dizziness. During PCT, the individual is first educated
about the underlying cardiovascular and hormonal systems
that are involved in producing these physical sensations.
This is generally introduced within the context
of the fight-flight response. The fight-flight response is
the way the body responds in order to enable individuals
to escape danger or defend themselves if escape
is not possible. To accomplish this, a host of rapid
changes occur within the body that act to increase an
individual's ability to fight or flee. For example, blood
is routed away from the gut and into the limbs, and the
heart races in an attempt to get more oxygen to the
muscles. Clients are shown that although this response
is adaptive and generally helpful, panic attacks are
inappropriate reactions that occur when there are no
real threats in the environment and thus are maladaptive.
The therapist's goal for this portion of the treatment
is to help the client to understand why the
physical sensations occur, for example, helping the
client to realize that a pounding heart is the result of his
or her body's natural fear response rather then a sign of
an imminent heart attack.


Also in this module of the treatment, the therapist
will introduce hyperventilation as a possible source of
uncomfortable sensations that occur during an attack.
This is often further demonstrated by having the client
participate in a voluntary hyperventilation experiment.
During this experiment, the client is asked to stand
and breathe very fast and very deep, as if blowing up
a balloon. This exercise is continued for approximately
90 seconds or at such time that the client feels
that he or she cannot continue. After the completion of
the exercise, the therapist will question the client
about the sensations he or she experienced during the
exercise. If these sensations are similar to those experienced
during a panic attack, the therapist will help
the client to understand that some of the symptoms
experienced during a panic attack may be due to over-breathing.
Often, clients will notice that although they
experience similar physical sensations as those that
they experience during panic attacks, they are not fearful.
This is to be expected, as this exercise is completed
within the safe therapeutic context. To help the client
to avoid overbreathing during a panic attack, the therapist
instructs the client on controlled diaphragmatic
breathing.


The final component of this module of PCT is the
introduction of the concept of interoceptive conditioning
and the implementation of interoceptive exposure.
The therapist begins by first conducting a series of
symptom induction tests that serve to identify sensations
that have become triggers of anxiety and fear
in the client. These tests include the following: shake
head from side to side (30 seconds); head between
knees (30 seconds) and then lift quickly; run in place
(1 minute); hold breath (30 seconds); complete body
muscle tension (2 minutes); spin in chair or twirl in
place (1 minute); hyperventilate (1 minute); and stare
at a light (1 minute), then read a paragraph. Each exercise
is meant to simulate sensations the client may
experience during an actual panic attack. Clients are
asked to rate both the intensity of any sensations they
may experience and the amount of fear and anxiety
they experience as a result of those sensations.


Once the therapist and the clients have identified
those sensations that the client associates with fear
and anxiety, the therapist will proceed with the hallmark
of PCT, interoceptive exposure. It is essential at
this point in therapy to identify and prevent any safety
behaviors and subtle avoidance behaviors that clients
may use to decrease their anxiety exposures. The
rationale of interoceptive exposure is to allow the
client to face the feared sensations repeatedly, until it
is no longer able to evoke fear. This has the ultimate
effect of reducing both anxious thoughts and the conditioned
fear reaction. During interoceptive exposure,
the client is asked to engage in a specific exercise
repeatedly (at least three repetitions), pausing between
repetitions in order to allow the anxiety to dissipate,
while recording both the appearance of physical sensations
and the amount of anxiety they produce.


<b>Cognitions</b>


Conducting interoceptive exposures allows the clinician
to begin to introduce the cognitive module of PCT.
Individuals who suffer from panic often misinterpret
the physical sensations they experience as a sign of an

[p. <i>421</i>]

Although these consequences may seem inevitable
to the client, the therapist will try to normalize the
experience. An individual's perceptions about any
particular event depend upon the likelihood that the
event will occur and then how bad the consequences
would be. Individuals with panic tend to engage in
probability overestimation, which is characterized by
overpredicting that an unlikely event will occur. For
example, when predicting that something bad will
happen, such as getting into a car accident in the middle
of a snowstorm, experiencing anxiety and fear
would be quite appropriate. However, when experiencing
fear and anxiety after predicting a car accident
in the summer on clear roads where an accident is
very unlikely, the anxiety and fear are inappropriate.


To counteract probability overestimation, the client
is encouraged to objectively evaluate the likelihood of
the event in question occurring, a method that requires
analysis of facts rather than feelings. For example,
consider the following automatic thought offered by a
female client experiencing panic attacks: "If I have a
panic attack while away from home, I will faint and be
very embarrassed." The therapist will encourage her
not to accept this thought as fact, but rather to be
skeptical and test it out in systematic fashion. The
client should ask herself how many times the
predicted event actually happened under the exact or
even similar circumstances. She should also consider
whether there is any other evidence to support her prediction,
such as a propensity to faint. The ultimate
goal of this exercise is not to reassure the client that
the feared event will not occur, but rather to allow the
client to arrive at a realistic, appropriate estimate of
the events likelihood.


People with panic often engage in another form
of negative thinking called <i>catastrophic thinking</i>.
Catastrophic thinking is an error in thinking in which
an individual perceives the consequences of an event
occurring as catastrophic when actually, they are not.
Common catastrophic thoughts displayed by individuals
with PD include "I will lose control," and "I will
faint in a public place." The client is encouraged to
understand that although there are negative consequences
of events such as this occurring, they are
not as disastrous or terrible as he or she would automatically
assume. Similar to countering probability
overestimation, the goal of countering catastrophic
thoughts is to be able to realistically assess how bad it
would be if a feared event actually occurred. Clients
are encouraged to imagine the worst possible consequence
of a feared event and to evaluate their ability
to cope should it occur.


<b>Behavioral Avoidance</b>


The third component or module of PCT focuses on
an individual's behavior predispositions that are influenced
by anxiety. As previously mentioned, people
who experience panic attacks in particular situations
tend to avoid or escape those situations or develop
safety behaviors. The behavioral component of PCT
requires the client to confront the anxiety-provoking
situations and is referred to as <i>exposure therapy</i>. The
first step in this component is to establish an exposure
hierarchy, which requires clients to list feared situations
and rate the degree of anxiety they think they
would experience if they entered those situations
alone and without any safety behaviors. Clients also
rate the likelihood that they will avoid the proposed situation
under those conditions. This hierarchy will
serve as a guideline for situational-exposure exercises.


The goals of situational exposure are to help individuals
realize the realistic dangers of particular situations,
as well as their realistic ability to cope with such
events. Exposure helps to weaken conditioned fear

[p. <i>422</i>]

This is a critical point in therapy for agoraphobic
patients, and it is essential that the therapist express
this to the client, as the client's natural inclination is
to avoid these feared situations.


During a situational exposure, the therapist instructs
the client to remain in the situation until his or her anxiety
decreases to a significantly low level. This decrease
in anxiety is called <i>within-session habituation</i>. The
client should notice that the within-session habituation
time decreases with continued exposure to the feared
situation. In addition, between-session habituation
should occur. This is evident by a between-session
decease in the initial level of anxiety experienced at the
start of the next exposure exercise. Because individuals
with panic do not simply fear the situation but also the
occurrence of "scary" physical sensations in the situation,
it is essential that while doing situational exposures,
the client experience these sensations. Although
this may happen naturally if the task is difficult enough,
the therapist may often increase the sensations by introducing
symptom induction during the exposure. For
example, consider a client who avoids riding on the
subway for fear of experiencing a panic attack. The
therapist may instruct the client to ride the subway
repeatedly on separate occasions, until the anxiety he
or she experiences is significantly lower the usual. The
therapist may also instruct the client to hyperventilate
during a subway ride, in order to amplify the positive
effects of situational exposure.


<b>SUMMARY</b>


Panic disorder (PD) is a debilitating condition in which
individuals experience unexpected panic attacks and
then become very anxious that they will happen again.
They avoid external situations associated with panic
attacks, as well as situations that may produce physical
sensations of an attack. Panic control treatment (PCT)
utilizes the traditional components of situational exposure
therapy, in which sufferers confront situations
associated with panic attacks (such as crowded public
places) and psychoeducation about the nature of panic.
PCT also adds the new component of interoceptive
exposure in an effort to target the prevalent and often
debilitating avoidance of situations and activities
that induce physical sensations of panic. This treatment
has been designated by the National Institute of
Mental Health as the treatment of choice for panic
disorder.


<i>Shawne L. Basden and David H. Barlow</i>


<i><b>See also:</b> Evidence-Based Practice (Vol. III); Guided Mastery
(Vol. I); Relaxation Training With Children (Vol. II)</i>


<b>Suggested Readings</b>


Barlow, D. H., &amp; Craske, M. G. (2000). <i>Mastery of your anxiety
and panic: Client workbook for anxiety and panic</i>
(3rd ed.). Boulder, CO: Graywind.


Barlow, D. H., Gorman, J. M., Shear, M. K., &amp; Woods, S. W.
(2000). Cognitive-behavioral therapy, imipramine, or their
combination for panic disorder: A randomized controlled
trial. <i>Journal of the American Medical Association, 283</i>,
2529-2536.


Barlow, D. H., Ruffa, S. D., &amp; Cohen, E. M. (2002).
Psychosocial treatments for panic disorders, phobias, and
generalized anxiety disorder. In P. E. Nathan &amp; J. M.
Gorman (Eds.), <i>A guide to treatments that work</i> (2nd ed.).
New York: Oxford University Press.


Carter, M., &amp; Barlow, D. H. (1993). Interoceptive exposure in
the treatment of panic disorder. In <i>Innovations in clinical
practice: A source book</i> (Vol. 12, pp. 329-336). Sarasota,
FL: Professional Resource Exchange.


Craske, M. G., &amp; Barlow, D. H. (2000). <i>Mastery of your anxiety
and panic: Client workbook for agoraphobia</i> (3rd ed.).
Boulder, CO: Graywind.


Craske, M. G., Barlow, D. H., &amp; Meadows, E. A. (2000).
<i>Mastery of your anxiety and panic: Therapist guide
for anxiety, panic, and agoraphobia</i> (3rd ed.). Boulder,
CO: Graywind.

