<font size="4"><b>Chapter XXI: Beginnings</b></font>

THE Yale Plan was the spark that fused scattered interest
into a definite objective. The clinics showed what a community
could do and at the same time marked the limitations
beyond which it was necessary to have State or Federal
aid. Such clinics as those piloted by Yale, being ambulatory,
had no provision for hospitalization for those who
needed a period of enforced abstinence, or for prolonged
individual psychiatric treatment. The cost would be prohibitive
unless they could use existing State facilities or State
funds.


For the past two or three years, there have been indications
that the next step is about to be takenhesitantly, tentatively,
but advancing none the less. Several of the more
progressive States are either actually setting up pilot clinics
or making preliminary studies toward including them
as a part of their public-health programs. Connecticut was
the trail blazer and the District of Columbia was not far
behind, with its outpatient clinic that was set up in 1945
under the Bureau of Mental Hygiene. The psychiatrists on
the staff volunteered. Soon Washington had several clinics
operating part time, with two evening sessions and one
afternoon session a week. There was no charge for treatment
and the patients were mostly self-referred. These were
so successful that in 1947 Congress passed a law providing
for a special clinic for alcoholics and financed it by increasing
the liquor-license tax by 10 per cent, which would

[p. <i>220</i>]

Several States have plans for clinics under way, among
them New Jersey and Virginia, which have reached the
planning stage. Fourteen States have appointed commissions
to study the problem of alcoholism and to make specific
recommendations for handling it.


A most complete and ambitious public-health project has
been launched in Buffalo under the sponsorship of the New
York State Department of Health. It has been designed as
a pilot experimental demonstration unit for future State
and municipal units and is being closely observed by many.
Its experience should be inspiring to interested groups
throughout the country as the first efficiently organized
community effort to fight the deleterious effects of alcoholism.
Labor and management will find in it much to guide
them in their planning along the same lines.


This project is unique in its integration with the various
State, county, and voluntary agencies which help to make
it effective. It is (as is often the case when we uncover the
human story behind an institution) the cumulative result
of one man's interest in doing something about a problem.
It is the child of the brain and emotions of a Buffalo physician.
Dr. Milton G. Potter, who had had a personal experience
with alcohol. He was convinced that alcoholism
was a medical problem.


Dr. Potter and a group of other doctors interested in
alcoholism made the Erie County Medical Society especially
active in stressing alcoholism as a medical problem. The
Society appointed a committee to study the matter and
work with all other agencies in the field and was influential

[p. <i>221</i>]

The Erie County physicians induced the Medical School
of the University of Buffalo, one of the best and oldest in
the country, to develop a program of teaching and research
in the field of chronic alcoholism. Then they approached
the hospitals. This was not so easy, for few hospitals have
either the space or the inclination to treat alcoholics.
Chronic cases are likely to clutter up their facilities for a
long time and acute cases are especially objectionable. They
did persuade the Edward J. Meyer Memorial Hospital, a
county institution, to allocate approximately forty beds
for the treatment of acute alcoholics. This was so great a
stride that it made the physician feel like the giant in the
seven-league boots. Soon, through the efforts of these doctors,
all of the fourteen general hospitals in the area swung
into. line.


At about this time the Western New York Committee on
Alcoholism was organized to operate over seven counties.
Dr. Potter approached the Council of Social Agencies.
With the assistance of both alcoholics and their families
and pending the time when they would have more funds
they undertook a vigorous educational campaign. In furthering
this, the Erie County Medical Society undertook
a project in its own special field. Several surveys had shown
that a discouragingly large number of doctors throughout
the state are unwilling to treat alcoholics, partly because
such patients are so unrewarding but largely because the
doctors themselves have inadequate information about the
best methods of handling such cases. The Erie County Medical
Society, in co-operation with the Western New York
Committee, presented a series of lectures to doctors on the
diagnosis and treatment of alcoholism. The Erie group furthered

[p. <i>222</i>]

Buffalo was selected as the location of the pilot experimental
unit chiefly because of the active interest of the Erie
County Medical Society and the desire of the University
of Buffalo Medical School to set up such a unit as the basis
of their proposed research project on chronic alcoholism.
The school offered to provide space for the center and to
operate it. The Edward J. Meyer Memorial Hospital offered
to reserve for patients under study and treatment by
the clinic staff twenty of the forty beds allocated to alcoholics,
and surprisingly, the voluntary hospitals of the area
offered to assign available beds for the private patients of
the unit. Two additional considerations were the facts that
the unit would be able to call on the staff of the State Mental
Hygiene Hospital in Buffalo and that the Erie County
Health Department, which was an especially good one,
would be able to help with all of its facilities.


So the State Board of Health gave the University of
Buffalo a grant of twenty thousand dollars and in December,
1948, the university set up the Rehabilitation Center,
with a half-time medical director, five part-time psychiatrists,
one social worker, a psychologist, and a voluntary
consulting staff.


This was a modest start. The doctors themselves and the

[p. <i>223</i>]

The center flourished from the very beginning in spite of
the fact that the appropriation lasted less than six months
and the doctors had to go back to Albany and fight to have
the project included in the regular budget of the Health
Department. The doctor who was the spark plug of the
whole idea led the fight, and with many members of the
State board supporting the Buffalo group, they managed
to get across that hurdle.


In the first year the center outgrew its facilities and had
begun to expand. Among its plans are a building to house
a certain number of in-patients, who after their first few
weeks of hospitalization are retained on parole for one to
two months, going to work during the day and returning
to the institution at night.


However, the chief value of the unit is its demonstration
of the way in which all the agencies of the community that
are concerned with alcoholism can be integrated into an
effective over-all campaign. The Western New York Committee
on Alcoholism has its headquarters at the Medical
School. With $11,600 from the Community Chest it has
put on an educational campaign which has as one of its
objectives the interpreting of the unit to the people of
Western New York. In turn, the doctors interested help

[p. <i>224</i>]

A member of the staff lectured to a group of high-school
boys and girls studying general health and also to a mental-hygiene
class of the University of Buffalo on the subject
of alcoholism, its nature, and its treatment. Each student
received a brochure entitled <i>Alcoholism Is a Sickness</i>, one
of the series which the Committee uses in its campaigns.
For the university students the first lecture was followed
by a second covering the broad contributory factors and
emphasizing the necessity for developing a mature philosophy
of life. Some six weeks after the lectures the classes
were tested to see how much of the material was retained
by the pupils and consequently how effective had been the
presentation. The results were encouraging in that almost
every student remembered that alcoholism is a sickness and
that it can be helped. Only three of the high-school group
still labeled it as a drinking habit. Alcoholics Anonymous
led all other sources of help and not more than half the
students felt that they would recognize symptomatic behavior
in themselves.


Dr. I. Jay Brightman, Assistant Commissioner of Health
of New York State, has pointed out that any public-health
program has prevention as its primary purpose: primary
prevention, or the complete avoidance of the disease, and
secondary prevention, or the arrest of the course of existing
disease. Primary prevention calls for a program directed
to potential alcoholics, students in college, high school, and
grammar school. Future teachers, health educators, public-health
doctors, and general practitioners must be reached
while they are in professional schools. These are the people

[p. <i>225</i>]

Another instance of co-operation with other agencies
in Western New York is the relation of the unit with Alcoholics
Anonymous. Patients are referred to Alcoholics
Anonymous and accepted from them for diagnosis and
treatment. The relations are close and flexible.


This unit works with the courts also. When cases are referred
by the courts, the staff of the unit determines whether
it is possible to do anything for them. If the problem is
chiefly medical, the staff recommends that the criminal
charge be dropped and the patient turned over to the unit,
but if the alcoholism does not appear to be the important
factor, the patient is referred back to the court, with that
report.


Dr. Potter, as Chairman of the New York State Medical
Society's Committee on Alcoholism, proposed at the annual
meeting of the Society in 1950 a resolution, which was
carried, requesting the American Medical Association to
appoint a similar special committee on this subject. He
believes that one of the greatest steps forward will be when
the medical profession accepts this problem as its own. The
next step will be for medical schools to provide an organized
course for students, thus "catching them young."


So the beginning has been made in New York State. The
Board of Health does not expect to establish such rehabilitation
centers in other cities within the next few years on
a university level, but it does expect to encourage city and
county health departments in establishing them with State
aid. And it does plan to assist voluntary agencies by paying
the fees of consulting physicians for diagnostic and
therapeutic services. The ideal of rehabilitation centers in
every city, tying in with voluntary centers in smaller towns,

[p. <i>226</i>]

Although there are now but a handful of clinics administered
under a State Board of Health, several cities and
a few large teaching hospitals are also conducting interesting
experiments. Outstanding among them is Bellevue,
which for several years has had a psychiatric clinic for the
development of group therapy for outpatients. In early
1948 this clinic began to work with alcoholics. In order to
compare therapeutic techniques and at the same time to
determine the best conditions under which to operate, the
clinic ran two parallel groups at the same time, and so was
able to shift patients from one to the other without discontinuing
their treatment.


These groups were made up of patients who had tried
Alcoholics Anonymous, psychotherapy, conditioned-reflex
treatments, Benzedrineall the therapieswithout success.
They were limited to five or six patients who had similar social,
cultural, and economic backgrounds and, more important
still, similar emotional problems. That the emotional
problems should be similar became evident early in the experiences
of the groups. At first psychopathic and neurotic
patients were combined in the same group, but the result
was not successful. The psychopathic patients, being much
more outgoing and aggressive than the neurotic ones, took
control and dominated the discussion periods with descriptions
of their more magnificent benders, or purely theoretical
discourses on alcoholic problems, while the neurotic
patients, tense and inhibited, had no opportunity to talk
about their conflicts and anxieties. The psychopaths scorned
the neurotics and the neurotics resented the psychopaths,
so the results were poor.

[p. <i>227</i>]

Later, the neurotic patients were separated from the
psychopaths. It was found that neurotic patients require
a great deal of individual attention within the group.


These treatments are semiweekly and last an hour and a
half. By wire recordings of group sessions, Dr. A. Z. Pfeffer,
Dr. Philip Friedland, and Dr. S. Bernard Wortis of Bellevue
were able to report to the American Group Therapy
Association how the clinic works.


In one group of six. Miss W. is a singer, twenty-one
years old, and has been an alcoholic for five years. A month
after her first drink she was taking a pint of liquor to ease
her tension before each appearance at a night club. Later,
she began to go on once-a-week sprees that lasted two or
three days. She had tried Alcoholics Anonymous and was
helped for a time, but felt that she was not solving her
problem. Her home life was full of bitterness and tensions,
with a critical, ambitious, possessive mother who tried to
dominate her and an alcoholic father to whom she felt close
in spite of his brutality when he was intoxicated. The part
of the discussion that follows deals with a musician who has
fascinated her for several years. In several previous sessions,
she has come to the point of understanding that her
attitude to Fred was tied up with her father, but she was
always blocked. This time the therapist helps her to break
through the block.


MISS W.: Well, the first job that I worked on, Fred was
working the B. Hotel and everybody said he was a big
star and I thought he was a big star. Then he quit his
job to come to work in this little Spanish club that I
was working in, because I was working thereand immediately
yes, this was my first job in show business.
I was only there about a week when Fred walked in and
saw me and quit his job at the B. Hotel and came to
work where I was working for much less money. Of

[p. <i>228</i>]

THERAPIST: Almost as if you had lost yourself, huh?


MISS W.: Yesumhumm. Almost as though I were
obsessed by him, you know, if we believed in those type
of things, voodoo or witchcraft. I mean, I just, Iwhen
he was around I didn'tnow this should be interesting;
I don't think I ever told you, I mean, maybe this will
help bring somethingheI used to watch for him, you
know, to come in at night to work and I was sitting and
talking to someone, a newspaperman came in to interview
me, and Fred walked into the room and I remember
just like I'm sitting here now that I didn't know I
did it, I left the man in the middle of a sentence and,
just as though I were hypnotized or without any will of
my ownIthe man sat there with his mouth open 
and I just got up and walked across the room and
walked over to Fred and I didn't even realize when I got
there how I had gotten there.


THERAPIST: So the problem becomes, what does Fred
mean to you? Why did Fred have such a tremendous
effect on you?


MISS W.: Hm-m. [Pause] We ... from the minute I
met him 

[p. <i>229</i>]

THERAPIST: Yes, what was there about you? What was
there about him?


MISS W.: Hm-m. [Pause]


Mrs. R. then suggests that an apparent dissimilarity
between Fred and her father which Miss W. vehemently
points out may be a clue.


MISS W.: All that's true, but there are so many other
things, too, that I don't understand.


THERAPIST: What? What else?


MISS W.: Thisthis personalthisthis personal 


THERAPIST: Yes 


MISS W.:angle that I built up 


THERAPIST: Yes 


MISS W.:supernatural anglethis 


THERAPIST: Almost as if everything that went before
that moment was kind of building up to it.


MISS W.: Yes, and I [Pause] yes, and what you just
said. Because he came in withahat that time he
was with J. B. and he came in with the entire band and
they all introduced me, this one and that one, and this
and that one, and I looked at him, and I had the feeling
that I had known him beforehe looked very, very familiar.
Now I had never seen him, he was a Puerto
Rican and I had never seen that type or anything close
to it before, and from that minute on I was absolutely
enthralled, I was ...


THERAPIST: So then there is the clue, isn't it, as there
was something about him that made him feelseem 
familiar to you?


MISS W.: Yes.


THERAPIST: So it means that you have to go further
back and see who it was that had that same appeal to
you as Fred did.


MISS W.: No one that I could ever think of. [Whispers]
NoIunless it was a book that I read or something
as a child.

[p. <i>230</i>]

THERAPIST: Have you had any dreams?


MISS W.: [Pause] Well, for years I've been having the
same dream. I've been looking for himahsearching
for him, in my dream, I would go uphe lives in a
Spanish neighborhood ...


THERAPIST: Have you searched for any other men,
looked for any other men?


MISS W.: No.


THERAPIST: Under any circumstances?


MISS W.: [Whispers] NoNo [Normal voice] I have
looked for him in true lifein real life, I mean, I
planted myself outsideif I called upI've done crazy
things. I called up places and found out that he was
rehearsing and walked in. Iwherever heI made his
life miserable. He hated me. He loathes me to this day.
THERAPIST: What do you think this searching and this
appeal has to do with your mother and father?


MISS W.: [Pause] I don't know. I mean, I can't connect
him in any way with anywith my mother or father or
anyone else in the world. [Pause] I mean that is a separate
entity, it is something that happened and something
that really and truly messed up my entire life and
ah [Pause] if I go out with a man and if he has a
tooth twistedthis is ridiculous, I know, just a little
bit this way, something thatthat reminds me of Fred,
I keep gazing at him, or if someone has an accent like
Fred's or if someone hasn't, I will convince myself that
he does remind me of him or ifor I search for his face in
a crowd. Just now I was in a restaurant and I saw a
man and I became very interested in him because he had
a certain shape face like Fred. Now, I mean, that is an
obsession and in many, many ways


THERAPIST: Tell ustell us something about your
father.


MISS W.: Why, he's completely differentone hundred
per cent different. Ahhe'sFred's effeminate, which

[p. <i>231</i>]

THERAPIST: I asked you about your father before and
you very vehemently said your father has nothing to
do with it 


MISS W.: I'm sorry 


THERAPIST: But whywhy'd you stop talking about
your father?


MISS W.: Oh well, my father's just the opposite. He's 
there's no connection between Fred and himself. It's
likemy father is a veryahFred is short, slender,
andahfeminineandahcute, charming, trick
ways. My father is slender and very tall, and very, very
gruff and very rough and very masculine and very ah
[Pause] loud, you know, big, hearty voice andah 
just the complete opposite of Fred so that I can't see
where the connection would be.


MRS. R.: You say he's exactly the opposite physically,
and most every other way, so why? Do you know?
[Pause] It seems to me there's something there.
MISS W.: [Pause] Well, I don't think necessarily that
ahwe must associate ourselves with our parents so
closely sexually.


MRS. R.: We do though.


MISS W.: Not everyone.


MR. Z.: You evidently have, too, because one of the
reasons I believe that you went for Fred instead was

[p. <i>232</i>]

MRS. R.: Well, let's get this straight 


MR. Z.: Well, I added that part as an afterthought because
you were very young then and youthe only
actual relationship you had withnot actual relationship
but, let's say, in terms of thinking, was your father,
perhaps unconsciously.


MISS W.: [Whispers] Yes.


MRS. R.: You say you're very like your father


MISS W.: [Whispers] Yes.


MRS. R.: Well, you didn't like yourself very much.


Maybe you want to get away from yourself. Is that
why you go for somebody opposite?


MR. Z.: By the way, that's what I want to know.


THERAPIST: Mrs. R.What?say that again.


MRS. R.: Well, I don't know 


THERAPIST: Go ahead.


MRS. R.:ahyou say you're very like your father
and yet, of course, underneath you don't like yourself 
a part of yourselfmuch or you wouldn't drink. So it
is perhaps because you want to get away from yourself
that you go for somebody who's opposite from your
father, whom you are likeyou know what I mean.


MISS W.: Yes, but Fred drinks like a fish.


MRS. R.: I don't mean drinking. Drinking isisI
meanyou say Fred and your father are opposites.
You are like your father.


MISS W.: Right.


MRS. R.: Right. Well, you know very well you don't
therethere's certain parts of yourself that you don't
like. You hate yourself underneath at times and


MISS W.: Right.


MRS. R.:certain parts of yourself. So instead of

[p. <i>233</i>]

MISS W.: You're completely right. Yes, I never understand ...


THERAPIST: Well, go ahead.


MISS W.: Yes, you're completely right. [Pause] I think
she's completely right in that respect. But why to the
point of obsession?


THERAPIST: That's incidental.


MISS W.: Is it?


THERAPIST: That's just indicative of the strength of
the feeling.


MISS W.: Ummmm. [Pause]


THERAPIST: Yes, what is it?


MISS W.: Is that why I always like feminine men?


THERAPIST: Is it?


MISS W.: [Pause] Perhaps, yes ... There's a certain
somethingwhether it's a softness or whether it's the
opposite of my father in effeminate men or whether it
is Fred againand I associate them with Fred because
I know Fred is homosexuala certain charm that they
seem to have for me. I don't mean these swishy things
that go aroundyou knowthis way, or anything, but
a certain quaintness about them that, let's say, a hundred
per cent masculine man does not have for me.
Now, II don't know whether that's the opposite of
my father or whether that's Fred.


Although it is too early to make any final appraisal of
the results of this group therapy, it was reported that
Miss W. is getting along much better in her work and for
the first time is trying to choose her friends among non-alcoholics.
Mr. Z., a thirty-nine-year-old designer who had
been an alcoholic for fifteen years has not had a drink since
he joined the group. Mrs. O., who has been under treatment

[p. <i>234</i>]
