TRANSCRIPT OF AUDIO FILE:
______________________________________________________________________________
BEGIN TRANSCRIPT:
COUNSELOR: You seem kind of quiet.
PATIENT: I am quiet. I'm trying to figure out where to put this. Maybe I won't be so quiet once I do that. It is not just that but I kind of got here late.
COUNSELOR: Yes. Not too bad. 
PATIENT: Not too bad.
COUNSELOR: Three minutes.
PATIENT: Three minutes. Could be worse. So we haven't spoken in quite a while.
COUNSELOR: Yes, yes. 
PATIENT: Oh, golly. Is the camera on?
COUNSELOR: Yes.
PATIENT: Do you mind if I tie my shoe? This has been untied three times in the past 45 minutes. It was a nice trip, and it was pleasant for two weeks. It was really lovely, very great. Kathy was able to get her assistant to do the cat sitting at her apartment, at the last moment. 
COUNSELOR: So that worked out.
PATIENT: Well, that's where the problems began. When we got home on Saturday night everything seemed fine at the apartment initially as we got there. But there were some strange smells going into the apartment. Seems like Kathy's assistant, Tanya, hadn't cleaned Tigger's litter box for the two weeks we were there, and cleaned it at just the last moment before we got back. Because I saw a number of cat litter bags, of fresh litter we had provided her, and the fact that there was just fresh litter downstairs just thrown out, dirty litter rather, in the plastic bag, but she had obviously just changed it before we got home.[0:02:12] 
So, Tigger, to make a long story short, had used a big basket that Matt uses to keep his Nintendo power magazines in as a cat box. And it didn't smell that bad, but Tigger had thrown up also and I was cleaning that up off the floor. And when I was right next to it, I looked into it and there was poop and pee in it and it was... And then when I started to pick the magazines up, there was a lot of pee in it. He had undoubtedly used it for two weeks, but I had what was a big, big mess. And the urine had soaked through the basket into the rug and soaked through the rug into the wooden floor and it was just necessary to dismantle Matt's room totally. Take all the furniture to take the rug out so we could throw the rug away. Then we had to buy another rug on Monday. 
So these are things that could have happened to anybody, I suppose. If I had stayed I was probably the only one in the world and probably Kathy who would have been able to know the ins and outs of Tigger's behavior at this time. But Kathy's assistant is I guess, one of those people, the worst assistant Kathy's ever had as far as not being able to take the responsibility and take the read between the lines and analyze instructions. And to be truly a passive-aggressive person who if she doesn't have all her notes written exactly the way she like it so that she can understand them easily and so forth, she is not able to do things correctly. Even though she is an incredibly smart person, her personal judgment and so forth, aren't perhaps up to the corporate world yet. She is a graduate student. [0:04:24]
In any case, it was a mess. So it just has made it necessary for Kathy to take a couple days off of work. For one thing to buy the rug. She and I bought the rug on Monday, and I guess yesterday was Tuesday and she wanted to take another day off to throw all the stuff away that was from previous years and so forth. But this entire- this is a long story, getting into the fact that this was a conflict between Kathy and me that was so awful and so really dangerous that I can't quite understand it.
One of the things is in the process of cleaning the room, Kathy wanted to clean the windows, which are pull down windows, those replacement windows that fold in so that you can wash them. And these windows are... they have these mechanisms on them that always break. And one of these mechanisms had broken, maybe six months ago, and it was still kind of working a little bit until then, when Kathy wanted to fix it. 
What is this? This isn't going to be working too well here today with all of that noise and so forth. [0:05:57] 
COUNSELOR: Yeah, they're changing the floor in there.
PATIENT: So, I was making lunch while Kathy was cleaning the windows. And then she called me for help. The windows mechanism had totally snapped out of the side of the window casing and she wanted- she was holding very heavy equipment, very wide, as wide as these two panes, really high, almost from floor to ceiling, incredibly heavy. She was holding it because it had gotten all lose on one end, and sideways, and both the windows were open, it was just extremely precarious, and beyond her ability to hold it and get it back. I don't think she had ever been completely aware of exactly how these windows operate. Because I've learned to live with them because they are on the studio side of the apartment and I have been in this situation before, and know kind of how to deal with the broken windows and how to get them working.
But at that point she was saying, "Put it back in, put it back in," to me. And I thought she was looking at the mechanism that had sort of popped out, that you had to be shoved in before you put the window in. [0:07:27]
COUNSELOR: Right. 
PATIENT: But the window had to be popped back in and this mechanism had to be popped in at the same time. And I kept saying, "I can't do it, I can't really do it." Because of the way she was holding it and so forth. And I guess we went back and forth three times on this. Then it just deteriorated into angry shots of, "Can't you understand me? Don't you know what I'm even talking about? Can't you even understand the simplest thing? You're holding the window to be put back in and you don't even know that?" And so forth. So it went on like that and then finally I said, "How can I put it in when I can't get at it?" Then finally after a long exclamation I explained the situation to her and it was basically her viewpoint was that there was no communication was going on and I am just so unable to understand the simplest instructions that I had screwed up another situation.
COUNSELOR: It is your fault.
PATIENT: Yeah, it is my fault. So I said, "What can I do here?" 
"Nothing! Get out of here. Go eat your lunch." Because I was making lunch. So I said, "OK. If you know how to do it, do it yourself." So I went back...
COUNSELOR: How did you feel at that moment? [0:09:10]
PATIENT: I felt really incredibly angry. If she wants to do it herself, do it. I didn't think she even fully understood what was going to be necessary to get it back in, to work. Because it was more complicated than she thought it was, I think. Or, I don't know what she thought it was. In any case, so I sat down and had lunch and within three minutes or so I heard a huge fall. She fell down from the chair that she was on. In fact it was one of those falls where she could have killed herself. She fell flat on her back on the floor, her head hit the fan that was on the floor and she wasn't hurt at all, apparently. Even so, this entire communication business has gotten to the point where it is dangerous. I mean it is really... 
In some sense they say, hey um... I mean it was a real situation that was set up to go in that direction, by her. And first of all, for her to be standing on a tiny, little wooden chair, with narrow, one of those bent wood chairs on a shiny wood floor was...
COUNSELOR: Doomed. 
PATIENT: Doomed. The reason that she continued doing it on that chair was because I had, well, that was pretty much the end of that day except I had come in and, admittedly without much sympathy, some sympathy I said this is horrible, let me bring in the step ladder and do it together and do it from the step ladder. The stepladder was right around the corner so I brought it in. 
COUNSELOR: What was her reaction? After the fall? [0:11:26]
PATIENT: She said she was shaking and she was upset...
COUNSELOR: Was she upset at you?
PATIENT: She was just upset with that fall.
COUNSELOR: It shook her up.
PATIENT: Yeah, it shook her up. So I brought the stepladder in and I put it next to the window and then she said, "Well, turn it." And I asked her, is this the way she wanted it? "Well don't you even know how it should be? Can't you see how it should be? Use your head use your head. Figure it out. You do it, just figure it out." Then she left the room. 
COUNSELOR: How did you respond to that?
PATIENT: At that point I didn't say anything I just left the room. We both left the room at that point. There's virtually no response just my repeating it, "Figure it out!" Just a non-response.
COUNSELOR: Do you remember how you felt?
PATIENT: I felt scared that she had for one thing, on the spot to not fix the window.
COUNSELOR: What do you mean?
PATIENT: Because this is, I said, "Has this become an intelligence test now? Is that what you're doing?" And in fact that's what it was. It was an intelligence test to see whether I could actually...
COUNSELOR: So like performance anxiety?"
PATIENT: Yes, performance anxiety. And then eventually after a minute or so I went in and put it all back together. There was a certain way you had to do it, push in that mechanism and push in the window at the same time. And nobody could have done it that wasn't tall, and had long enough arms to be able to do these three things at once. [0:13:38]
But in any case, yesterday, we took another [inaudible 0:13:41] My studio at this point is totally cluttered with all of the contents of Matt's room- boy this is going to be fun with this thing.
COUNSELOR: Yes, I realize it is very loud. 
PATIENT: And she was- I wasn't even- at this point yesterday I hadn't even unpacked my suitcase because we started all this business with the mess in Matt's room. So my suitcase was still covered with all the contents of Matt's room. So it was important to me to get things moving into Matt's room, but Kathy wanted to take up the cleaning of certain things, so after the men came to fix the windows yesterday and I wasn't able to be there on time because I got caught on the bus in the flood in the transverse on 72nd Street, so I was there about ten minutes late. And Kathy spoke disapprovingly to me that I took the bus instead of taking a taxi, and it took 35 minutes to get home. [0:15:11] 
COUNSELOR: What did she actually say?
PATIENT: Well, I said- It was just, "What, you took a bus?" That sort of thing. 
COUNSELOR: Belittling?
PATIENT: Yes. I had plenty of time to get home taking the bus. I was stuck in the bus with closed doors for 25 minutes.
COUNSELOR: And when you tried to justify...
PATIENT: Yes. And then when I the bus doors opened I walked home. I got home in ten minutes. Well, I walked home in twenty minutes; I guess I got home ten minutes late. 
COUNSELOR: What stops you from saying, "Don't talk to me in that tone, it was a decision that I thought was right, don't talk to me like that."
PATIENT: Well, let me just continue with this, because that is the next part of it.
COUNSELOR: OK.
PATIENT: After that, the guys leave after fixing the windows and Kathy made it clear that she wanted to go through all of Matt's books to give away those books that she thought were no longer appropriate and to save other books. I knew that. But in any case I wanted to get the books moving and I started moving some of them into Matt's room and putting some of them on the bookshelf and going through all of the books that I was replacing, putting them into various categories on the floor, set aside so that Kathy could go through them and make another decision. I just wanted to get the stuff moving. [0:16:47]
COUNSELOR: Yes.
PATIENT: I was doing what I thought was helpful to it. She came into the room, saw what I was doing and just swept all the books out of the bookcase and threw them on the floor. As if I went and knocked all the books off your shelf. At that point, she said, "Can't you follow any instructions at all? I told you I was going to do this and now you've screwed everything up again and it's all wrong." I was reasonably trying to say that I was not putting the books on the shelf against her wishes; I was trying to cooperate and do the pre-selecting for her so she could do it faster. I don't even think she understood that. She was so filled with rage that she didn't exactly quite know what the situation was. So I tried to tell her about that and I really kept repeating that until I think she began to understand what happened. That I wasn't somehow plotting against her, doing something to hurt her. Still, she was incredibly furious. At that point I just left and, she'd asked me to do some grocery shopping, so I went and did the grocery shopping at that time just to get out.
But it was a situation, these two days, which had been so extreme and so dangerous in one case...
COUNSELOR: Dangerous. What do you mean by dangerous?
PATIENT: Physically dangerous for Kathy to do what she did. I mean she is in so much pain about my not having work, she says, "I'm under so much stress because I don't have any work and so forth that that is why I'm doing these things, or that is why I'm so upset or whatever.
COUNSELOR: Sounds like you're responsible for putting her in peril.
PATIENT: Yes, I'm responsible for putting her in peril. So how can I say to her, "Why are you acting like this?" Or how can I say to her, "You can't act like this, you have no right to treat me like this," or whatever. Which I would never say. I can't even imagine saying those words; "you have no right to treat me like this." Anyone can treat me however they want. Like it is my feeling. That's the first time in my life that I said, "you can't treat me like this." I've never said that, or never really even thought that I could say something like that. [0:20:20]
I think that I'm pretty awful to have people treat me however they want to treat me. That's the problem isn't it? I think that I'm pretty awful.
COUNSELOR: What are you feeling?
PATIENT: I was just thinking the other thing, the other response that I have is that I'd like to blow my brains out and have my brains all over a wall someplace. That there's really no... this has gone on for so long I feel really bad about it. 
COUNSELOR: Yeah. Stay with that feeling right now.
PATIENT: Obviously I'm crying now. I can't justify myself to Kathy. What can I say in terms of my not getting work? I'm not getting work. And I can't really do anything to get work. Can't do anything other than try to put together a new sort of portfolio. Which I'm doing, but it takes months.
COUNSELOR: Right. Stay with you feeling sad right now.
PATIENT: Yeah, I'm feeling sad. I've wasted my life. I've wasted a life that had a lot of potential and I've... I don't have many more options and I'm dependent upon Kathy for my income and I'm just like, what, a pawn? An appendix more like, more than a pawn. An appendix is just something that's dangling there, unnecessary. I really can't justify. The thing that made me tear up was when I said that I'd never said that to anybody who had no right to treat me like that.
COUNSELOR: And that made you feel...
PATIENT: Those made me feel like there's nothing here. There's nothing of value here. I was just overwhelmed by the feeling that there is nothing of value that I see. I try to act as if things that I'm doing are worthwhile and so forth, but when, I guess when somebody- admittedly a critical person- has lived with me for 15 years and doesn't see anything of value, just sees nothing other than a... not even a failure. Just sort of a failed mind. Failed. Just failed in all sorts of ways, it is not just failure of lack of ambition or whatever. It's like I can't follow the simplest instructions.
COUNSELOR: So she must be right. 
PATIENT: So she must be right. Yeah. So she must be right. How can I say, "You have no right to treat me that way," when she is right? [0:24:07]
And then that leads- I guess intellectually that's not really true. But that's the way I'm feeling. And if that's the way I feel what am I supposed to do to live in this world? I don't know what to do to live in this world.
COUNSELOR: How does it feel talking about this right now with me here?
PATIENT: It feels OK. I don't... I mean, it's a subject that, the trouble is it is a subject that I like to explore but it doesn't get resolved.
COUNSELOR: You just sort of come to the conclusion in a way.
PATIENT: Come to the conclusion and then I do some new layouts. Think up another project to work on, something that we've talked about.
COUNSELOR: And hopefully that will confirm the conclusion?
PATIENT: It won't confirm the conclusion, but hopefully it will distract me...
COUNSELOR: In the meantime.
PATIENT: Yes. But this conclusion, what do you do when you reach this conclusion? There's two things to do I guess. To fantasize about dying in some sense, or sort of divert the pain by working on my portfolio.
COUNSELOR: Something helpful.
PATIENT: Something helpful. 
COUNSELOR: Something to prove that you're not a waste.
PATIENT: Yes. But I don't take it to the next step. The next step of working on the new portfolio is sort of a significant, or moderate expenditure of money to get paintings made of various things and so forth. And I'm always trying to nickel and dime that stuff, trying to do it in a much cheaper way so that I can figure out how I can do it so that I can do it at one hundredth the cost of what it should take. And I wind up with stuff that doesn't look as good as it should be. [0:26:14]
COUNSELOR: What's going on for you now?
PATIENT: I'm thinking just about that. Also thinking that this nickel and diming sort of does at some time... I'm just thinking it is dumb. Getting a new special size portfolio for these layouts that would be of comparable size and proportion just like another portfolio presentation book that I have. And I've never done it. I've never even looked for it or called the company that makes it or anything like that. And I did stumble across it when I was at that art show I told you about a couple of weeks ago. I was able to track it down and it turned out that the place that I buy my portfolios at has them, has them in the back room. I could have gotten those portfolios three years ago if I had just asked for it. I just assumed, oh no, they don't have it. In fact I did ask several times before and they said they didn't have it. I didn't make a point to get the stock number or whatever to prove to these people that I knew exactly what I wanted. [0:27:36]
COUNSELOR: Right.
PATIENT: And when I did have that stock number, they were able to say, "Oh, well let me speak to so and so, they'll know what you're talking about." 
COUNSELOR: This is another example of...
PATIENT: Of how I essentially have such low self-esteem that I don't even pursue something basic to my well being like getting a new portfolio to show my work in. I feel like I've deteriorated over the years. Presentation has never been great with me.
COUNSELOR: I'm going to ask you to try a little exercise that is a little different than what we did last time. I'd like you to close your eyes and play, I don't know how difficult that will be for you, but play your really critical side. What would you say to Tom right now strictly from your critical side?
PATIENT: This is difficult. Whenever you ask me to do something I sort of feel so hopeful now...
COUNSELOR: It triggers hope?
PATIENT: Yes.
COUNSELOR: Why?
PATIENT: I don't know, just to be obstinate perhaps or just to be, I don't know. I don't know why exactly.
COUNSELOR: What did you mean "obstinate?"
PATIENT: Why would I say that? Because I can't figure out why I close my eyes and feel immediately hopeful instead of full of despair. I don't know why that's the case. Why am I smiling instead of weeping now? I don't know why. There's a certain... It is weird that I feel that opposite feeling other than what you asked me to feel.
COUNSELOR: Do you have a sense of feeling anxious about those, uncomfortable?
PATIENT: I felt performance anxiety when you asked me to do another performance of some sort. I feel anxious about that.
COUNSELOR: Is the anxiety about doing it right or...
PATIENT: Doing it right. Talking. I don't like to... it is easy for me to talk about myself because there's a lot to talk about. If I have to talk about anything else other than art, let's say, there's not much to say. There are not a lot of words coming from me.
COUNSELOR: So when you say performance anxiety, you are always performing in front of an audience. And in this case I'm the audience.
PATIENT: Yes.
COUNSELOR: So you want to do right by me. 
PATIENT: Yes. I was amazed in Puget Sound how little I spoke to people. People who are friends of Kathy's family or whatever. I said enough so that I registered my presence, but that's about it I think. There's no real freedom in being able to speak, no real freedom to be able to think of anything to say or initiate or whatever. So that's part of that I think.
COUNSELOR: So just to bring it back to this situation again, let's take it one step further, there's a sense that you don't want to disappoint me.
PATIENT: Yes.[0:31:00]
COUNSELOR: Life sort of got in the way.
PATIENT: But if I... I guess if I were to close my eyes and think about this feeling of just letting all the negative feelings about myself come out, what can I visualize other than a big empty hole with nothing there. Years of attempting to do things, just trying, trying, trying, maybe half way, not really fully. And not being flexible enough to try other things. But in some sense, just failure is the word, whatever it is. 
COUNSELOR: [inaudible0:32:06]
PATIENT: I mean I just see myself just as this appendix of Kathy. I can't exist without her. Just financially. When she said that in the past I...
COUNSELOR: How do you feel when you think about that right now?
PATIENT: Well, for me to be dependent on my wife, on somebody who hates me and whom I hate is a hopeless feeling. It further intensifies the lack of self worth that I'm not going to be able to get out of this. 
COUNSELOR: That you're really stuck.
PATIENT: That I'm stuck. That this is the end. This is... I've been stuck in this so long there's no way out of it. I was thinking this morning that this is an attempt to break out of whatever spot I'm in. But there are other things I need too. I had jokingly mentioned that, just to learn skills of presentation that might be superficial. But perhaps in conjunction with a deeper emotional restructuring of my self-esteem, some cosmetic and superficial techniques might be beneficial as well. I'm wondering what you think about that. [0:33:51]
I took Matt to practice last night and was looking at the catalogue for the 81st Street Y, which has courses about [inaudible0:34:09] techniques for interviews, make yourself look great. Would that be useful for me?
COUNSELOR: I don't mean to not talk about it, but I'm also really aware that we kind of shifted away from what we were doing and I wonder if you're aware of that happening or how that happened?
PATIENT: Just trying to put a good face on things I guess.
COUNSELOR: Yes.
PATIENT: But I was...
COUNSELOR: That's sort of like coming up with a new plan.
PATIENT: A new idea. I have a new idea. I have a new idea that I'm not going to complete.
COUNSELOR: To get away from sort of looking at yourself.
PATIENT: Yeah, sure. I just come up with new ideas all the time. I don't know if it is to get away from looking at myself, that's part of it. But all my life I have come up with new ideas and I don't know if it is to get away from looking at myself, that's probably part of it. But I like to come up with new ideas. I just sort of...
COUNSELOR: But there's something about always running away instead of running toward something. It is almost like you're always running away from this negative image. Always doing a project to overcome this negative image.
PATIENT: Yeah, sure. Trying to... yeah. That's one way of saying it I guess.
COUNSELOR: [inaudible 0:35:54]
PATIENT: No, you're right. Trying to change the image or rebuild the image, or build a different reality is another way of stating it. Another way of saying of course is examining the negative image. I'm not quite clear on how dwelling on this negative image is really, and really dwelling on it, dwelling on this negative image is going to lead to a positive outcome, really.
COUNSELOR: So that doesn't seem very constructive.
PATIENT: It doesn't seem very constructive to dwell on the negative image. 
COUNSELOR: So you have some misgivings about actually doing this kind of exercise?
PATIENT: Misgivings?
COUNSELOR: Mixed feelings?
PATIENT: Mixed feelings, maybe a little bit. Maybe, I guess so, that's part of it.
COUNSELOR: Can you express that to me in a more direct fashion?
PATIENT: A few weeks ago, a few sessions ago, talking about examining these negative... something. I started getting really negative about it over the week or so that I was doing it. I started getting really depressed over the week or so that I was doing it. I was thinking a lot about my family and that sort of influenced the basic way that I looked at the world and myself. Dwelling on that, on something that I thought was dealt with and behind me, years ago, which was quite difficult and quite painful to me until about twenty years ago. When I began to be more dependent upon myself emotionally instead of my parents. It was the center of the pain in my life, I think, this horrible relationship between my parents. [0:38:15]
I don't think I covered it up really; I dealt with it and talked about it a lot with my friends. I really felt like that is their problem, I've gone beyond that now.
COUNSELOR: So it feels really resolved in some way for you?
PATIENT: Yes. And to sort of reexamine this without also going through the resolution that I came upon myself at that time I think is not too, it is not clear to me that this is a helpful direction to go in. Because it was a big process to get to that point. And it wasn't swept under the rug. It was really dealt with. People evolve certainly, and there is still no doubt that it is a big part of my basic structure of my upbringing, life and framework, emotional framework. And it might be worth considering again, but probably is, but that was my reaction to it. I felt like I've dealt with this before...
COUNSELOR: Why am I doing this?
PATIENT: Why am I doing this again?
COUNSELOR: And you don't see any benefits, you just see pain by doing this.
PATIENT: Yes. I feel like I was just stirring up things that were painful. At that time there was some resolution by being able to feel that I was getting stronger emotionally being on my own, more emotionally having the ability to ask girls out for dates at that time, and I felt it was really important stuff that I was doing at that time.
COUNSELOR: So in the same sense this exercise here doesn't seem useful to you, apparently? [0:40:37]
PATIENT: Well, I'm not sure that if it feels... 
COUNSELOR: The cost is outweighing the benefits.
PATIENT: It is more... talking about it is the reluctance or inability to get into that mode seems more like a blank wall. When I closed my eyes I didn't see black, I saw more like a blank red wall in front of me. I mean it was like a real presence. I don't know what it necessarily represents. I just wasn't black; it was just something different that I saw when I closed my eyes. But there's no doubt that I feel overwhelmed by these feelings.
COUNSELOR: Right.
PATIENT: [inaudible 0:41:40]
COUNSELOR: I'm sort of confused because on one hand I get the sense that there's a part of you that doesn't want to do this. But I got kind of lost in terms of that. Can you clarify that?
PATIENT: You're saying there's a part of me that doesn't want to do it. It isn't an easy explanation of what those parts are. It might be more than one thing, more than one thing. One of them might be reexamining painful things with my parents; I'm definitely not convinced that that was useful. Which doesn't mean that there might not be some value in it that I don't see. It is just my take on it was...
COUNSELOR: How did it feel to actually say that to me?
PATIENT: Awful. I feel awful about accusing you of something like that. Suggesting to you that you didn't know what you were doing or whatever. I'm sorry. I'm sorry I said that.
COUNSELOR: The reaction, you're apologetic. Very uncomfortable with this sort of thing, "I didn't find that useful."
PATIENT: Yes. I feel like sitting here for the next ten minutes saying I'm sorry.
COUNSELOR: Mmhmm. [0:43:17]
PATIENT: You could see it when I was saying it, it was obvious. I could see from your reaction that you could see I was uncomfortable saying it.
COUNSELOR: Right, right. 
PATIENT: That makes me, then I ask myself, "how can I get a job when it's so obvious what I'm saying..."
COUNSELOR: Now you're trying to be self-critical.
PATIENT: OK, I was trying to analyze the reasons why I felt like something like that might not be useful. I guess that was one of, maybe the big reasons for that. And then there's another stage fright reason, so there's a couple of reasons.
COUNSELOR: But, you know, the point here is that you have a right to express that. 
PATIENT: I feel like in a previous life before I was married I would have felt comfortable pretty much, saying things like that to people. I feel like there's been so much compromise or lack of my being able to state honestly what I feel. Because I have no financial grounds to stand on, I have no, I don't have the credentials to be whatever...
COUNSELOR: Whatever they may be.
PATIENT: Whatever they may be, to allow myself to say these things.[0:45:11] 
COUNSELOR: Yes.
PATIENT: I feel like I've lost credentials and hope over...
COUNSELOR: The marriage?
PATIENT: The marriage. That's parallel with the lack of growth in my career. I think they both are intertwined and if Kathy is mad at me because I'm not getting work, that's the relationship between those two is certainly parallel. I don't know how intertwined they are, but things have certainly deteriorated on a parallel rate, I think. And even until this sort of turn down in work in October or so, October or November of this year. I had broken so much ground with new clients and potential clients that I thought that things would really open up for me.
COUNSELOR: Yes.
PATIENT: And to see all these potential clients failing as well, is just... The job market is, who knows how much the job market is really narrowed? 50 percent, something like that.
COUNSELOR: It depends on the niche that you're talking about, the market that you're working in.
PATIENT: Yeah. And the only way that I can really make some sort of showing is to have these really impressive projects that I have to present in really impressive ways.
COUNSELOR: Right.
PATIENT: So that's what I'm constantly thinking about. I can't sleep. I often get three hours of sleep a night. And I'm not even worrying. I'm just sort of in a state of vice on my mind, almost. In the past I used to worry about things. I don't even worry about things now. I just am sort of built a shell around myself sometimes. And there's no real thinking that's taking place or even worrying or even planning. Sometimes there is. [0:47:44]
COUNSELOR: And you think that's bad?
PATIENT: Yeah. Actually sometimes there is an immense amount of activity when I'm planning new projects. And sometimes it does turn into that, and I guess being so exciting that I'm lying there awake and I can't sleep and it does turn into a good outcome.
COUNSELOR: I just want to give a focus to this session, something for you to think about. I want you over the week how to track how your criticism gets in the way of self-asserting. Allowing you to say something. Depriving you of the right to say something. Whether you understand the situation or not, or whether you're right or wrong, that is almost irrelevant. You do have a right to express your feelings, and you do have right to protect yourself from being belittled.
PATIENT: Do I have a right to do that? I mean, do I? Where is it written that I have a right to do that? In my mind, I have it written that I don't have a right to do that I guess. I guess that it is written in the notebooks of the healthy population that they have a right to do that.
COUNSELOR: You have to write it in yours.[0:49:17]
PATIENT: But my self-criticism prevents, definitely does, prevents me from doing anything. Just do nothing.
COUNSELOR: You know we saw it in this session the small way that you couldn't tell me that you disagreed or that you didn't find something useful. You struggled with it.
PATIENT: But I didn't think I was really struggling with it. I was really surprised that it was so obvious to you.
COUNSELOR: Well, it is subtle. But that's the whole point of what we're doing, to make the subtle explicit. Make the input explicit. That's why I asked you to track it during the week so that it becomes more explicit. And as it becomes more explicit it gives you the ability to do something about it. 
PATIENT: What can I do at that point when I become aware of what I'm doing, or see examples again and again and again of what I'm doing? What do I do that is going to allow me to be a...
COUNSELOR: What do you think? What do you think you can do when you become more aware?
PATIENT: To be Donald Trump and manipulate people.
COUNSELOR: Well it is not necessarily that you manipulate people. What could you do?
PATIENT: Do I see positive outcomes from this alternate scenario? What does it say on this sheet?
COUNSELOR: [Laughter]
PATIENT: What could I do? What could I do? I guess that gets a low mark on that question.
COUNSELOR: Well let's take up with this next time.
PATIENT: I know what I could do.
COUNSELOR: Think about it and then...
PATIENT: All I know is do some projects. Do some research, do new projects.
COUNSELOR: Well you're very creative there. That is actually a good example how there is no shortage of solutions when it comes to that. 
PATIENT: No there's actually too many of them.
COUNSELOR: I have great faith, I think that you're a very creative person so; I think you know that on some level as well.
PATIENT: Oh, I'm creative.
COUNSELOR: Some emotional blocks not allowing you to come up with [inaudible0:51:50] here... but to be continued.
PATIENT: But the creativity has come to be a sort of negative statement in my...
COUNSELOR: Sure, sure. I don't know why that doesn't surprise me... [chuckles]
PATIENT: [laughter] It is just beginning to, not totally convince. 
COUNSELOR: Let's nip that one in the bud.
PATIENT: Nip it in the bud, OK.
COUNSELOR: Well...
PATIENT: I feel...
[0:52:23 abrupt ending to the tape]
END TRANSCRIPT
