TRANSCRIPT OF AUDIO FILE:
______________________________________________________________________________
BEGIN TRANSCRIPT:
COUNSELOR: How you doing?
PATIENT: I'm good, actually. It was a very interesting weekend.
COUNSELOR: Really.
PATIENT: Yeah. My father called me last - in the middle of last week and said he was coming into town. So he said "Oh, you know, I'm coming into town and I wanted to know if I could stay at your apartment," and I said "Sure, absolutely." And he said that he was going to the opera and he had an extra ticket, do I want to come, and I was like sure, you know, and then whatever.
So I just called Cole and told him my father was coming in, and I thought, you know, this might be a very good time to talk to him, because I'd wanted to talk to him for so long.
COUNSELOR: Your father.
PATIENT: So Cole's like - said yeah, and he automatically started like even pushing me further than I was comfortable with to you know, "You really have to talk to your father and what are you going to tell him." And I'm like "I don't know, I don't know, like whatever. I'm just going to talk to him." He's like, "Well, you should call him before he comes in," and I'm like ah. You know, he really pushed me and he made me really uncomfortable, like I really started getting a total aggit, (ph) I think. I felt like I had acid indigestion and everything.
But I decided okay. I let him push me a little, which kind of bothered me, because I thought, well, am I don't this because I want to or because he's telling me I should, and I don't want to make him, you know - I knew I wanted to, but like had I had it my way I wouldn't have spoken to my father until he came in on Saturday. He's like "Oh, you should call him before he even comes in, because you should just tell him how you feel before he gets here." Because a lot of what it has to do with is my father comes and he doesn't have time to see me and I think, well, where is he and why is he - you know, who's he with, and this has been going on for like seven years.
I mean my dad will come to Chicago and he'll say "Okay, do you want to have dinner," and I'll say "Yeah." But he'll be here for a weekend or a couple of days and all he'll have time for me for is a little dinner. And it's always seemingly very secretive; like he's like "Okay, well, if you want to reach me you can leave a message for me at this number," you know. It's never "This is where I am, call." It's always like I can get a message to him.
So in my head it's always been like okay, I know he's always cheated on my mom, and probably when he comes to Chicago he's here with another woman or he's, you know - so this is how I've always felt. [2:23]
So I called him Thursday night. He was coming in on Friday and late after work, and I just said, you know, "I really want to talk to you, do you have a minute," and he said yeah, he was getting ready to go to sleep. And I said, you know, "I just want you to know that it really causes me a lot of anger and pain; that every time you come to Chicago, I feel like you're just squeezing me in for a quick meal and I - it really bothers me and it's been bothering me for a long time."
And then he started making excuses: "Oh no. Well, I just assumed you had other plans, and you can come to dinner with me." I just said da, da, da. And I said, "Well, it's not just now. I mean it's been for the seven years it's always been that way. And I feel like I should be your priority when you're in Chicago. I'm your daughter. Family is my priority, and if I'm going to come blah, blah, blah." I told him all this, right? And he's like, "Well, I hear you. I don't necessarily agree." I mean he's like "We love you and we're here for you and blah, blah, blah." So...
COUNSELOR: What was that?
PATIENT: Blah, blah, blah?
COUNSELOR: No the - you know, the kind of blah, blah, blah.
PATIENT: Well, it just what it was is he's like, you know, "I think we should talk more about this." He's like "Certainly you can come to dinner with us. I just thought you wouldn't want to." And he said, "Well, why don't we talk about this when I'm there," and I said, "Okay."
Because what happened is we were going to go to the opera, and he's like, "Well, do you want to meet for a bite for lunch before?" So I was going to meet him at 11 at the Museum and go. And I figured it's like he's staying at my apartment; why is it always so formal? Why is it like "Okay, we'll meet at 11 for lunch and then we'll go"? You know, like that's it, that's my dad coming into town; that would be the extent of what I was going to see of him. [4:06]
So I said, and you know, "I feel like the opera," because he mentioned something about he was going to go and sell his ticket. So I felt like, but would I want to go? So I thought oh, you know, why did you invite me to the opera? Mom must have suggested it to you because you were... You know, he's like "No, I wanted to take blah, blah, blah." So anyway, so I said, "Well, why don't we meet Saturday and we'll talk?" He's like, "I'll be up early." I said, "Well, okay. I'll meet you at 9:00 o'clock at my apartment."
So I went to my apartment and I was - you know, for like all day Friday I was feeling like sick and nervous.
COUNSELOR: He came in on Saturday?
PATIENT: He came in on Friday. But he had a business meeting in, and then he had dinner plans Friday night, and so did I have plans also on it. So we decided to meet on Saturday. And I mean I knew I wanted to talk to him about all the things I learned from my mother about his having had another child before my parents were married - I told you this.
COUNSELOR: No, you didn't.
PATIENT: You don't remember, oh yeah. No, I think I did tell you. But I found out like last spring. I was having conversations with my mother about - you know, she came up to visit - about their relationship. And my mother said, "Oh, you're old enough now, it's time you know that, you know." Because of all my questions she said, you know - she told me that when she and my father were in college and they were - she had been pinned, so that means they're going to get married. And she was away with her family traveling and he was a year older, so he was like in New York with his family or in school, starting school or something like that. So apparently then he got another woman pregnant and she wasn't Jewish and his parents didn't want her - or he didn't want to marry her. I don't think it had - I'm sure it had nothing to do with religion. [6:00]
But in those days she didn't want the abortion so she wanted to get married and he didn't want to get married and it was like a whole big scandalous thing. My dad was in school and they went - but the family went and told the school that my father had gotten their daughter pregnant and he like - and my father's father was a doctor and he was on the staff there, and for some reason there was pressure on my father and my father dropped out of the school, and then my father's parents were pressuring him to marry my mother, just to like kind of brush the whole thing under the carpet.
COUNSELOR: Wow.
PATIENT: I know. I mean this is what I just found out. These are the pretenses under which they got married, which you know, it's unbelievable. So...
COUNSELOR: And you found this out about a year ago?
PATIENT: I found it out last spring. Yeah, not even a year ago, but you know... Then my mom had her reasons for wanting to get out, and my dad wanted her to come live with him and she said, "I'm not living with you. You either marry me or we break up," because her family was totally against her marrying him. So she was just going to go live with him and they were going to totally alienate her. So she kind of pushed him into it and - well, this is my take, now that I've had a conversation with my father about it yesterday. But yeah, it was really like they never should have gotten married in the first place, basically.
So I just learned this last March but I never talked to my father about it. You know, I've had issues with my father for a really long time; that I don't think he loved me and he's very patronizing and he tells me "I love you" because he thinks I need - you know, and I've talked to my mother about it. My mother has always said, "Well, you should talk to your father and you're wrong and he really does love you very much" and you know...
So I've always had this like - you know, my father's always pushed me away and it's always hurt me a lot and I just - you know, at this point, now that I know everything I know, I think or I've thought in my mind, well, it must be because he's had so much to hide. Of course, he doesn't want his kids to know all the secrets, so of course he's going to be distant. You know what I mean? And these are the things I've formulated, ideas I've formulated in my mind, anyway. [8:03]
So I went to my apartment and my father and I were just like bullshitting and "Oh, so how's the weather and how's work," and, you know what I mean? And then so he said, "So like what is this about you feeling like a second-class citizen?" Oh, because I also told him Thursday night on the phone that I felt like that I was really needing on perfecting all my relationships, because I felt like they pushed me to be independent when I wasn't ready for it and, you know, they really pushed me away too early. So I guess he took that as being I feel like a second-class citizen because I feel like I was pushed away from the family.
So Saturday he said so what is this about your - you know, like after we were there for a while. And I said, well... And it was so hard for me to talk to him, too; I don't know why. I mean I guess because he's my father.
COUNSELOR: What was the feeling?
PATIENT: I was scared to death to talk.
COUNSELOR: I see.
PATIENT: I was so scared. And Cole kept saying, "Well, what are you scared of and what are you going to tell him?" And I'm like, "I don't know, I don't know." And he's like, "What do you mean you don't know? I know what you were going to tell him. You know, you've been telling me about it." I was like I don't - it's like I just thought, well, I always, when it came to dealing with my father, you know, it was like I don't know. I was like frozen, you know, with fear.
So to kick it off I said, "Well, you know, I just feel like you're very distant from me and you don't want to be close to me and I don't understand why and it's always really hurt me, and for the past seven years, you know," and I went on and I told him about that again. He explained to me why he thinks he is the way he is and how it had to do with his upbringing, and when he was an infant his mother was not available to him because she was like going through post-partum depression and his dad took care of him. [9:48]
And he said he had splashes back to infancy where all he remembers is his father and he never did that bonding with his mother and he thinks that was probably very traumatic for him and he's always, his whole life, had trouble forming like intimate bonds like with people and when it starts to get too close he backs off. And that's just - he was trying to explain to me why he probably is that way and that it had nothing to do, you know - that's who he is, you know, which I understand, you know.
COUNSELOR: What did you feel when you heard that, what he was saying?
PATIENT: Better. I mean better.
COUNSELOR: Better?
PATIENT: Because I mean all my life all I've known is that my father - I felt pushed away and not wanted or not loved enough, you know? And I didn't understand why. So hearing a straight-forward answer - I mean I know my parents are adults and they're human and not perfect and everybody does things for a reason, and I mean I'm an adult too, so it's not - I can separate myself from it. It's not like I'm your child and I have to have - you know what I mean? It's like, okay. That's an understandable answer. I mean I believe he was being honest. That's why he felt he felt that way.
COUNSELOR: Did you feel compassion for him when he was telling you this? Like could you feel his pain and the pain that he said that (inaudible at 11:07)? Was it more like he was giving you a reason?
PATIENT: Yeah, it was more like he was giving me a reason. I mean I felt a little bit of compassion for him. But it's like here I am, trying to work out everything so I can be closer to my family, you know, so I can have what I need. And I mean I guess if he worked it all out and just accepted it, that's fine, that's his choice, but still, like work through it and make - maybe his priorities are different than mine. I really, truly know he loves me, and I really always have, and even though I've said that and I've said, oh, maybe I'm just qualifying the situation because, you know, all the other horrible things I've said. But the truth is I do know - I really do know he loves me. There have been times where I've felt that he didn't as much as I needed him to. [11:56]
But anyway, all that. Let me just step forward, because I think I had like somewhat of a revelation; is that when I was telling Cole what I was going to talk to my parents about, I realized I wanted to ask my father if he loved my mother, because I just did. I mean I didn't think he loved her and, you know, from what she told me, you know.
So the second half of the conversation was, I said, you know, "I'm going to ask you a really personal question and I hope you don't mind," and he said, "Go ahead," you know. And I said, "Do you love mom?" And the thought - gist of it is he doesn't, they don't love each other. They're friends, that's it, friends.
And then he went on to explain to me everything that my mother had told me and more, about, you know, the circumstances under which they got married. And he said, "Well, you know about my liaisons and has she told you about hers," which I never knew my mother had any affairs, and I said "No." He said, "Well, that's for her to get into with you if she wants." I mean to me that totally irrelevant at this point it just doesn't matter.
But he just told me about why they stayed together all these years and how much resentment he had for her when they first got married. But she stuck through him in a really tough time when they first got married and my dad had been kicked - you know, dropped out of school and they wouldn't let him back in and they had to go - his parents, you know, wouldn't help him. From what my mother said, they had to pay off this woman and pay the court bills and my dad said they were like, "As far as school is concerned, take care of yourself." And my mother's family had basically disowned her for marrying him and not giving her anything; she came from a wealthy family.
So they traveled across the country, and he had to go and try to explain the situation to all these people in different schools and try to get into another school and just be honest about what had happened. And my mother stuck by him and my mother - he had gotten accepted at - back into the University of Georgia and he - my mother got pregnant really quickly. And she worked to support him through school, and then she worked even while she was pregnant and he just - you know, he said, "It's really tough when you know all our friends that we went to school with have all been divorced and married three times and we - she stuck by me and when -
And I felt like when we were going to - they were going to get a divorce, I guess, many times, but he said he felt like he should stick by her because she wanted him to. And she had stuck by him all those years, when he was going through school and through the hardest times and she didn't want us to be brought up without a father or have to worry. [14:40]
So the whole thing is I just realize that my parents don't love each other, they're friends, and that's it. And through the years they've had pacts about - my mother told him a long time ago if you're going to see other - I mean she knew he was seeing other people. I guess, you know, they kept renegotiating their deal, he said. And she said, you know, "Just don't rub it in my face. I don't want to know about it; I don't want to see you when I'm out. I don't want my kids to see you out with other..." you know.
And so I guess over the years they just, when that didn't work anymore, they'd stop and they'd talk about it again. And then periodically they'd talk about divorce and why they shouldn't get - and so, you know, and here they are, you know, and they're just friends. I'm sure - I feel like my mother I'm sure - I mean maybe I'm not, maybe I just am more close to her, but I feel like she's got to feel more - he seems more just accepting of the whole thing. I would assume she has more pain about it than he does. But she didn't want to be divorced; she didn't want to be alone, you know, so she chose to stay in the situation.
And he told me a lot of other things, but the bottom-line is that I think now the reason why I've always felt like I need so much love is my parents didn't have any love in their marriage, and I never really was quite aware of that consciously. I mean maybe I always knew it and maybe it scared the hell out of me. And they've always loved me; they've never loved each other. [16:07]
COUNSELOR: Why do you (inaudible at 16:12)
PATIENT: I just I can't - I mean I can't - I guess maybe I've always known it but I can't believe it. I can. I mean it makes so much sense to me.
COUNSELOR: I don't know. I feel very moved by that. I mean it's really heavy stuff.
PATIENT: I know.
COUNSELOR: But you smile.
PATIENT: Well, I feel better that I know now. I mean I don't know if that's all of it, but you know... I feel horrible for them and I don't know... I said to my dad, "So what's the status now? Do you think you'll get divorced?" He's like, "You know, you don't know what's going to happen." I was like, "I understand that." He said, "For now I mean we've stuck together for 35 years. Unless one of us meets someone else we can't live without and fall madly in love with, you know, I guess there's no reason to change the situation. But if one of us does meet someone else..." He said he's told my mother over the years. My mother was a beautiful woman. Karen had everything going for her, but she was scared. She didn't want to go out and date and, you know... He's like, "She could have found someone and found love and been happy, and I've told her that," you know, but she chose what she chose.
It's just really weird, you know, talking about your parents that way.
COUNSELOR: Yeah.
PATIENT: But it makes sense to me. I mean I think it takes a lot of my fear away and it makes me understand, I think, that would clearly be a reason I was so scared not to be loved and needing his love and knowing I'm - you know? I guess.
COUNSELOR: There seems to be some relief in hearing it. [17:54]
PATIENT: Yeah, absolutely. I mean I'm still - I don't know really quite what I feel, but I'm certainly glad I had the conversation and I've been thinking about having it for years. And you know, I know I have done my part now to tell my dad how much I love him and want to be his friend and understand his situation and don't resent him for it, you know. But you know, maybe we can be closer now. I mean maybe - I asked him, I said, "Do you have a girlfriend in Chicago," and he said "No," and that made me feel better. I mean that made me feel like, okay, so he hasn't just been snubbing me for someone else and hiding from me.
So you know, because the point a few years ago, I said I wanted - there's so many things I wanted to say to my father and I just felt like, God, he's getting older and he's kind of - he's a little overweight, but if something happens that if he dies, I'll hate him. You know, I don't want to hate him when he dies.
So it is a huge relief, because these are things that I've always wanted to talk to him about and now I have. And if he still chooses to be distant, I know it doesn't have to do with me. You know what I mean? I know he loves me and I know he's proud of me and that I'll be really sad, but I've done what I can do and he knows how I feel. So yeah, there's a lot of...
COUNSELOR: It made you feel very... What is that feel?
PATIENT: It did. I mean Saturday I felt good. Yesterday I woke up feeling like a little scared again, just like their friendship. I mean he's never going to change.
COUNSELOR: What's the scary part?
PATIENT: I don't know. I wasn't so scared. It was just like not quite accepting the situation is like the scary part. It's just like not wanting - just really having to let it go.
COUNSELOR: (Inaudible at 19:53) I'm not sure I know.
PATIENT: Well, I mean I guess in my head I've known bits and pieces of what's going on with my parents for a long time but now I know the truth; there's no love there I know why their situation is what it is and I have to accept it. There can't be any fantasy anymore. There can't - not that there ever was. I mean it's never like, oh, the perfect happy family. I really thought we were a normal family when I was growing up, I really, really did. I mean I don't remember consciously thinking we had problems at all. I mean they were good parents and they - they really were good parents and they were there for us and they gave us everything we needed and we did family, you know...
But I just - I mean what I have to let go is any idea of, you know, my parents loving each other, I guess. It's just not the truth; they don't.
COUNSELOR: I was wondering what this all means, now that you're in a relationship that you're thinking about sort of making a commitment to for the rest of your life, you know.
PATIENT: It's scaring me a little bit. You know, Cole has just continually been telling me my insecurities are my problem and it's me. And I went last week and I said, you know, I need you to be more supportive and understanding, love me no matter what, and you know, he's like, you know... Part of what I told him he understood and he respected and he accepted, and the other part he was just like, "No, and it's your problem not me, stop blaming me for your feeling insecure." And I was very confused because I didn't know - I didn't feel like that's what I was doing. I felt like he was making me feel insecure. I didn't feel like I was insecure and I was putting it on him. But he said "No, don't blame me for this, this is you. I'm not making you feel this way." [22:03]
And it really confused me because I didn't believe that. Now I believe it a little bit more, after talking to my father and after talking to my mother. And she said I've always been sensitive and always been, you know, somewhat insecure, and I do have to stop looking at other people. Obviously I know - to make me feel better I know I have to stop looking at other people. But I didn't feel like those feelings were caused by me. I felt - you know, by my nature. You know, like not just, okay, I'm insecure and I have to learn how to deal with it. I felt some people obviously smooth it over and some people trigger it. Cole definitely triggers my insecurities because of who he is, but does he cause them is the question. And I'm still not quite sure, but I believe more now that he doesn't and I just have to be okay with myself and I just...
COUNSELOR: It's a tall order.
PATIENT: It is.
COUNSELOR: Really?
PATIENT: But you know, he's like, "Lauren, I love you." I mean he's like, "You're terrific, you're bright, you're pretty, and you have a great bod - " You know, all the things I want to hear. And he's like, "I don't know what else I can do for you." I mean he's like, "I can't make... that's all I can do, that's all I..." He's like, "That's not enough for you. You're making - you feel miserable and..."
COUNSELOR: And the misery is always feeling like it's not settled, it's not going to - any minute now it might end and Cole might just totally get fed up, and then so that's kind of the day-to-day sort of difficulty?
PATIENT: Well, after last week, after the beginning of last week, like after I left here, I felt really, really horrible.
COUNSELOR: Horrible how? [24:02]
PATIENT: Just miserable, sad, not happy. I didn't know - and I felt like a lot of it had to do with Cole. I just didn't know. Like he's not making me happy, he's not... Had lunch with my friend and you know, my friend who knows him also sees it as I see it, kind of the reasons why I was feeling insecure because of him, you know, the things he does. Some, you know...
COUNSELOR: You mean the fights and how dismissive he is and just that stuff?
PATIENT: Yeah, that kind of stuff.
COUNSELOR: Puts you down when you're fighting?
PATIENT: Yeah. And I just felt like I was, you know, I don't know, I don't know if this is cool. I really felt that way. I just... And it scared Cole. I mean he sent me roses. He's never sent me flowers before.
COUNSELOR: Did you end up calling him last week?
PATIENT: He called me. No, I didn't call him. And I went back and had lunch with my friend and then he called me and he's like, "What's wrong? You sound horrible." And I'm like, "I am. I really feel shitty today. I really feel lousy." And he's like, "Why?" And I was like, "It's just a lot of reasons." And he's like, "Because of me?" And I said, "Some of it." He said, "Do you want to break up?" I said, "No. Do you?" He said, "No." I said, "There's some things I need to talk to you about and I just am not happy anymore," I'm not happy with him.
So he got really scared and he just... Some of the reasons I told him, you know, "You really have to start being more supportive and understanding of my feelings." I said, "I've been here for three, and no matter what, even if I don't understand the way you feel, I'm still supportive of you, and you, you don't give that back to me and I need that back." And, you know, he understood that.
And I talked to him about not really respecting my feelings, and he understood that too. But then later, like the next night when we had dinner, he - and I mean and he thought about it, for I didn't see him that night. And he called me and he's like, "I understand what you said and I love you and I - you know, you're right," and blah, blah, blah.
Then the next night, when we talked about it more and I started to talk to him about my insecurities, and he's got this huge thing with people blaming him. He's like, "Not me, it's you." Because he thinks everybody's trying to blame him and point the finger at him, which I'm not. I'm just saying this is the way I feel and you have to understand it, you know, because he does. Because anybody who's going to deal with me has to understand the way I feel or accept the way I feel; they don't have a choice, just like I don't have a choice about anybody else's feelings. I can't control anybody else's feelings.
So we kind of - he got all mad, I don't know, and then he started saying all this stuff that I love you and I don't know why, you know... So that I'm just confused. I'm not sure where my feelings are coming from, if it's just my nature to feel that way and he triggers them, which some people will and some people won't, and that's okay, you know, and acceptable.
COUNSELOR: Can I stop you? Can I ask you how are you feeling now, you know? I mean, what's happening?
PATIENT: Now I'm getting more anxious talking about it, yeah.
COUNSELOR: You know, it's funny, because when you first came in - and this doesn't happen just with you - but I started to feel kind of anxious, I think, just listening to you talk. And then more just recently I was noticing that my anxiety had gone down and I was kind of wondering what you were feeling, you know, because I think sometimes anxieties sort of pass back and forth between two people.
PATIENT: Um-hmm.
COUNSELOR: What was that "um-hmm"?
PATIENT: Well, I mean I was feeling more anxious, and the funny thing is the anxieties between Cole and I definitely pass back and forth. Either he's feeling really anxious or I'm feeling real... I mean it's like really...
COUNSELOR: Hmm. What's the anxiety? (Inaudible at 27:57)
PATIENT: I just... The whole thing with Cole and I, I guess, is such a mess. I'm not sure, I'm not sure, and that makes me anxious. I'm not sure whether I'm right or I'm wrong, or it's right or it's wrong, the relationship, or... Last night I went to sleep thinking about Trey and what a great guy he is and how happy he made me.
COUNSELOR: What do you think of that?
PATIENT: Now I'm starting to wonder if I could stay with Cole. Am I settling? I mean I'm in a situation where my life is a lot more difficult because of him, because he's a difficult person, and he absolutely wouldn't see it that way. He would see it as me being, you know, screwed up. But he's got everything else I want in my life, you know what I mean? But he's more difficult. He's not fun and outgoing and... No, he's outgoing and he's fun, but I mean he's not... He's difficult he's really difficult.
COUNSELOR: A challenge.
PATIENT: And it's draining and it makes me miserable sometimes. And I never felt that way with Trey, ever. And he's so happy. It's like I don't understand how you can be so unhappy and I have everything I could possibly want in a relationship, you know? He's like, "You're going to end this some day because you're miserable." [30:12]
COUNSELOR: You're going to end it? You're going to find a way to...
PATIENT: Well, I'm trying to work through it, but I can't get him to work with me, because he just thinks what he thinks.
COUNSELOR: But that's really the knot, the kink of the knot.
PATIENT: It is.
COUNSELOR: Um-hmm. What's it like, this uncertainty?
PATIENT: The uncertainty isn't scaring me so much anymore really.
COUNSELOR: It isn't?
PATIENT: No.
COUNSELOR: How do you feel now, talking about this, just the uncertainty? Explaining it to me or just...
PATIENT: I feel like I'm working it through a little bit I guess. But I'm kind of at the point where I feel like I just kind of chill out; that it will kind of work itself out. I don't know.
COUNSELOR: What was that?
PATIENT: I don't know whether that's right or wrong. I just feel like...
COUNSELOR: Do you feel like I'm looking for a right answer?
PATIENT: No, you don't, not at all.
COUNSELOR: You don't?
PATIENT: Uh-uh.
COUNSELOR: What do you think I'm looking for in an answer?
PATIENT: I don't think you're looking for anything anymore, I really don't. I just feel like you're listening to me and hearing what I say. [31:52]
COUNSELOR: There's this matter-of-fact tone in your voice there. I'm just trying to figure out - I think it's a - I'm very sensitive to it. I think it makes me feel a little -
PATIENT: Really?
COUNSELOR: - shut out.
PATIENT: I don't feel like that at all today, I really don't.
COUNSELOR: Maybe it's my problem.
PATIENT: Well...
COUNSELOR: Sometimes it's my fault.
PATIENT: I'm sure I've made you feel that way a lot, but now I just... I guess I'm realizing that I'm going to figure it out for myself, that I'm not looking so much anymore.
COUNSELOR: How does it feel that you feel that you're going to figure it out yourself or you have to?
PATIENT: It feels better now but I don't feel - I don't know. I guess that my whole meeting thing can't go away in one conversation, but I guess I've been working on it and I feel like it's not a need I have anymore, for someone to take care of me and that. But you know, I may feel there's something tomorrow, but I don't feel that way today.
COUNSELOR: I don't get that sense of you today, but I think there's a part of me that kind of misses you.
PATIENT: I knew you would.
COUNSELOR: My disconnection half; oh, she needs me (chuckling).
PATIENT: I don't know but I've felt this way in my life before and I mean I just - that's why I say I feel like I'm two different people. Sometimes I just like am okay. And then when I'm going through a lot of crap I just fall apart so then I'm like aahh. So I don't know. Hopefully I don't feel it anymore. Hopefully I'll understand. [33:49]
I mean I told my dad that - you know, talking about the cheating and how I'm scared to death, and he just went off on his "Well, everybody cheats and that's not really..." You know, and I'm like, oh yeah. I'm like hopefully - he's like people, you know - I said people used to get married a lot younger and hopefully now people are waiting for the right person. I don't know. I mean maybe that's his justification to himself that it's okay, you know what I mean? People do it for a reason and it's unrealistic to think that they're not going to. And if it's something that's really important to you - this is coming from his mouth - then you can tell the person you're with that it's really important. And you know, you make a deal that it's apt to happen, you talk about it or you know what I mean, do something, but basically he's pretty much said and it had been done.
COUNSELOR: Why do you laugh when you say that?
PATIENT: I don't know. I don't believe that. I mean I don't want to believe it. And because my father says it, you know, it seems like it has a little bit more validity, but I know it's got to be bullshit. I know it's not.
COUNSELOR: But you do that because it's just so outrageous in a way or like you don't believe it?
PATIENT: It is ridiculous. I mean I guess he feels that way but I don't agree and I certainly hope he's wrong. There are lots of happy marriages. I mean there are lots of unhappy marriages, but there are those that work too, so it can work. That's the route I would choose.
COUNSELOR: Um-hmm.
PATIENT: And he can justify what he did as much as he wants and if that's what he needs to do to make himself feel better, then that's just what he's doing, saying everybody does it, and it's sad.
COUNSELOR: What do you even touch with those kind of things? You feel that it's his kind of style and he is - kind of sad and - [35:53]
PATIENT: I feel badly for him and my mom. I mean it's just really sad that they just - I guess it's nice that they made the decisions that they made, some of them for us. And I guess fortunate for us, my sister and my brother and I, but it's sad that they've had the life they've had and you know, they should be able to be happy and love; it's sad. The funny thing is I think that Cole's parents pretty much have the same type of situation.
COUNSELOR: That your parents do?
PATIENT: Yes. To a different degree, but I think that they love each other and they've stayed together, and certainly from some of the things his mother has said to me, you know, she's made choices. That's kind of ironic. Trying to think of the people I know that do have parents with happy marriages. I don't know if I know any, I really don't.
COUNSELOR: What's the feeling that goes along with that? You smile and it feels outrageous but it's actually kind of scary when you think about it.
PATIENT: It is scary and I just hope that our generation has a better shot at dealing better. I think we do, because I think people don't get married so young and try to wait for the right people and work things out. And like my dad said, "We agreed, and once you get married at 20, 21, you're a kid. You haven't been through anything and you're bound - it's bound not to work out. You don't know yourself. How can you know what's right for you, you know, for the most part? You can't. But people don't do that so much anymore so... I mean the ten years between 18 and 28 or 20 and 30 are so - you know, you change so much that, hopefully, you know yourself well enough. [38:05]
COUNSELOR: What's going on?
PATIENT: Huh? I bet you're still thinking, ah, so do I know myself well enough? Am I going to do the right thing for myself? Am I going to make the right choices? You never know. I'm trying to think of anybody I know whose parents are still married. I really... Are your parents married?
COUNSELOR: They are. They are still married, yeah.
PATIENT: Are they happy?
COUNSELOR: Um, well, you know, I think that my parents are... They're good companions for each other.
PATIENT: Yeah.
COUNSELOR: It's nice that they've got each other at their age.
PATIENT: I don't know. I feel better.
COUNSELOR: What was that like to ask me about my parents  -
PATIENT: I felt like I shouldn't be asking you.
COUNSELOR: Why?
PATIENT: It's none of my business. I don't know.
COUNSELOR: It's not the right thing for you.
PATIENT: Right.
COUNSELOR: But you did anyway.
PATIENT: Yeah.
COUNSELOR: Why do think you did anyway?
PATIENT: I was going to apologize.
COUNSELOR: You were?
PATIENT: Yeah. I don't know.
COUNSELOR: Why? Is it awkward for you to ask about it?
PATIENT: Huh?
COUNSELOR: Is it awkward for you to ask about it?
PATIENT: Well, no, because I thought, you know, when I said it, it's like oops, treading on, you know...
COUNSELOR: Treading on what? [40:00]
PATIENT: Not thin ice but just like into territories I shouldn't be. I don't know. I feel like, yeah, you're here to - I mean I guess we're supposed to be friends, I don't know. Are we?
COUNSELOR: Um...
PATIENT: Not really.
COUNSELOR: It's not a friendship.
PATIENT: No.
COUNSELOR: But it is a relationship.
PATIENT: Right.
COUNSELOR: I mean I like that you asked me, you know? It makes me think that maybe you wonder about me. I like that. But I just wonder, you know, there are sort of people come in with some expectations about their roles.
PATIENT: Right.
COUNSELOR: And so I think that's probably what made it kind of uncomfortable or questionable. But you did it anyway.
PATIENT: Yeah.
COUNSELOR: So I was kind of wondering about that.
PATIENT: Because I'm like that. I mean I talk to people. I smile, you know...
COUNSELOR: What do you mean you talk to people?
PATIENT: I mean I'm interested in other, you know. It's for me normal, I mean. If I can ask my father if he loves my mother, I can certainly ask you if your parents have a good relationship, you know. Like what's more - which is more customary.
COUNSELOR: (Inaudible at 41:38) time with your father and then...
PATIENT: Not really. It's completely what I expected. I mean I didn't expect my father at all to say no. He had to love my mother. You know, I knew. I just wanted to hear it from him and I wanted him to know I knew and I wanted him to tell me the truth. [41:56]
COUNSELOR: But that experience of having him telling you about himself as (inaudible at 42:02) I was wondering about that. But you two talk like  -
PATIENT: Two adults.
COUNSELOR: Two adults, two people, sharing each other's experiences.
PATIENT: Well, if I can't have a loving, warm, nurturing father, I'd rather have a friend than nothing, you know? And him. And I mean  -
COUNSELOR: What is your  -
PATIENT: What?
COUNSELOR: - [father-in-law] (ph) like?
PATIENT: Justin?
COUNSELOR: Yeah.
PATIENT: That was probably just residual anchor. The truth is I mean I think every - we should be friends with our parents when you're an adult, absolutely, but  -
COUNSELOR: But you give up some (inaudible at 42:55).
PATIENT: Yeah, I guess I'll always miss the fact that I'm not going to get that - I know they love me but they're, you know... the warm, supportive, nurturing parents they're not, and... They are in a way. I mean they were in a way but they couldn't be in another way, because they don't feel that for each other. How can you feel that for your children that you had together when you don't even feel it for each other? I don't know. That's just something I have to give up completely if not - what they give me is what they give me and that will be enough, and it is. It's just I always wanted more and I'm just not going to have it, but that's okay, you know.
COUNSELOR: I guess I would just suggest that there are probably feelings that go along with giving (inaudible at 43:53) the same old party line?
PATIENT: No, I think I'm just sick of feeling it, at all. No I'd rather just wrap it up and throw it away. [44:08]
COUNSELOR: (Inaudible at 44:09)
PATIENT: I know.
COUNSELOR: How are you feeling now?
PATIENT: I don't like the fact that I'm confused about Cole every time I walk out of here, but I feel less so today; that all these discussions always puts a question mark in my mind, you know? Or maybe I look at the question mark as always there when I'm here, you know?
COUNSELOR: Sometimes I feel like but look at the question marks, Lauren, look at the question marks, Lauren, and you're kind of like I don't want to look at the question marks. (Laughter)
PATIENT: I know. I know. It's because (inaudible at 44:56) still scare me. I'm not ready to let that go if I have to.
COUNSELOR: Just the  -
PATIENT: Cole.
COUNSELOR: Cole.
PATIENT: It's so weird because I feel like I'll do anything to make that work. Why? Why? I feel like if I can just get through to him, we can be really happy together, you know?
COUNSELOR: I think that's a good feeling that way.
PATIENT: Yeah, but I'm not doing it. I'm not getting through. I mean little by little I have definitely made progress. But like when I told him, when I was feeling so horrible and I wanted him just to support me and understand, you know, and he had to turn it around on me, he had to, and I don't know if I can live with that. I don't know if I can live with someone who's going to always turn my feelings around on me. Even if they're wrong, so let me figure it out, you know, but be there. [46:00]
COUNSELOR: I was thinking that might be helpful somehow to explore what it means when he turns it around and can't be there for you at that time to (inaudible at 46:14) how you're feeling (inaudible at 46:17)
PATIENT: Right, and that's where the question comes in is it me. Should I just feel it, say fine, feel the way you feel like that, you know? Should I be able to just accept that and not be so sensitive to it and not make it - should I not need that from someone, regardless of what relationship I'm in? Is that a feeling I feel because of everything, you know? Is that me? Is that my problem? Which is what he says.
COUNSELOR: Well, when you were here last week you were wrapping up and you said, "It's our problem," right? (Inaudible at 46:59)
PATIENT: Well, yeah. Well, it's always that you're together, it is.
COUNSELOR: I mean he's turning away from you (inaudible at 47:08)
PATIENT: It is complicated. It complicates it sort of, you know, what are your rights in a relationship.
PATIENT: It just doesn't happen.
COUNSELOR: Oh, you think so?
PATIENT: Well, it wasn't with Trey. I mean it wasn't. Emotionally it wasn't complicated. I mean there was a lot of other stuff going on, but we dealt with it because we really liked each other and respected each other and we were really good friends.
COUNSELOR: But I thought you were bored with him.
PATIENT: I was - I wasn't bored with him. I just wasn't completely satisfied. I don't know, God. [48:04]
COUNSELOR: Is that a problem with Cole?
PATIENT: No.
COUNSELOR: (Inaudible at 48:07)
PATIENT: It's a constant challenge though and I'm unhappy about it a lot of things. I just want to be peaceful and happy and it's really hard to be that way around him, because he's so tense and anxiety ridden so much of the time. But maybe - and he tells me, "It's not you, it's not you." So maybe if I can learn to just listen to him and separate myself from that and say okay, you know... Not internalize it and take it personally, which is what I've done all along. To me it's - you know? We'll see. I mean like still, you know... (inaudible 48:47)
COUNSELOR: Okay.
PATIENT: Okay.
COUNSELOR: Things will be continued.
PATIENT: I know.
END TRANSCRIPT
