<font size="4"><b>Lipids: Psychosocial Aspects</b></font>

Lipids are fats that circulate in the blood, and
include cholesterol, triglycerides, and phospholipids.
Lipids are usually transported in the blood from one
tissue site to another in the form of lipoproteins,
which are combinations of lipids and proteins. The
most well-studied and clinically relevant of these
lipoproteins are high-density lipoprotein (HDL) and
low-density lipoprotein (LDL), but the major lipoproteins
also include chylomicrons, very low density
lipoprotein, intermediate-density lipoprotein, and
Lp(a). Total cholesterol concentrations include cholesterol
from all of the lipoproteins. Because about
70% of cholesterol in the blood is carried by LDL,
there is a strong relationship between LDL-cholesterol
and total cholesterol.


Lipids play a central etiological role in atherosclerotic
cardiovascular disease (CVD). Evidence from
epidemiological studies, clinical investigation, and
basic science research has concluded that persistently
elevated concentrations of total cholesterol, LDL-c,
and probably triglycerides predispose individuals to
higher risk of developing atherosclerotic heart disease
and thrombosis, and high concentrations of HDL-c
are cardioprotective.


DETERMINANTS OF LIPIDS


Both genetic and behavioral factors have influences
on lipid and lipoprotein concentrations, and the
influence is about equal in magnitude. Among the
most important genetic influences are gender, inherited
factors, ethnicity, and age. However, it is the

[p. <i>584</i>] | [<a href="psyc.get.jpg.aspx?display=page&amp;legacyid=1000284044-I00138&amp;api=new&amp;maxwidth=700">Page Image</a>]<br />

Anxiety and depression have been implicated in
the development and progression of CVD, although
the mechanisms linking these variables to disease end
points are not known. Because much of the variability
in lipid levels is also unexplained, investigations of
how and whether mood states, such as anxiety and
depression, are associated with lipid concentrations
have been initiated.


MOOD AND LIPIDS


Several different mood states have been examined
in relation to cholesterol and other lipids. These
include depression, anxiety, hostility and aggression,
and impulsivity, although the majority of the work in
this area has focused on depression and anxiety. For
example, depression has typically been found to be
associated with low cholesterol levels, while anxiety
is typically found to be associated with high cholesterol
levels, as discussed below. While these general
patterns in the literature have emerged, there is still no
definitive consensus regarding the mechanism linking
mood and cholesterol, and the nature of the causal
relationship between mood states and lipid levels is
not yet known.


The lifetime incidence of depression in the United
States today is approximately 13% in men and 21% in
women, and is increasing. Depression is a significant
risk factor for death among cardiac patients, although
the mechanism linking depression to risk of death is
not yet adequately explained. Studies of depression
and cholesterol levels generally have focused on a
few, separate groups of individuals. Either clinical
depression or dysphoria has been examined among
healthy, hypercholesterolemic patients enrolled in
lipid-lowering (primary prevention) trials; among cardiac
patients enrolled in lipid-lowering (secondary
prevention) trials; among large groups of healthy
individuals enrolled in epidemiological studies;
among postpartum women who experience a prominent
and sudden drop in blood cholesterol after giving
birth; and among one or a few hypercholesterolemic
individuals (single-case study) undergoing pharmacological
lipid lowering. Relatedly, cholesterol concentrations
have been examined in psychiatric patients at
elevated risk for suicide.


Most lipid-lowering trials have revealed the
expected decrease in cardiovascular-related deaths but
also a surprising increase in non-illness-related mortality
primarily due to an increase in deaths from suicide,
homicide, accidents, and violence. Although the
findings are intriguing, these large trials have not been
adequately designed for the examination of psychiatric
outcome measures, and the link between non-illness-related
mortality rates and mood simply cannot
be adequately tested in these studies. However, they
have provided a clear rationale for smaller-scale
investigations to specifically test the putative relationship
between cholesterol and negative mood.


The majority of these investigations have reported
an inverse relationship between cholesterol and
depressive states, and this holds for studies of those
with spontaneously low cholesterol as well as for
investigations of hypercholesterolemic individuals
undergoing lipid lowering. However, there are some
disparate results, with a few studies showing no relationship,
and even a few showing a positive relationship.
All of these investigations tend to vary with
regard to the assessment of depression, the use of psychiatric
versus healthy populations, and various,
likely important characteristics of the population
examined (gender, age, ethnicity).


The investigation of postpartum women, although
small in number, has reported more consistent findings.
Pregnancy increases cholesterol concentrations
by about 40%, and blood levels of cholesterol drop
rapidly following birth. Most, although not all, studies
of healthy women have shown a moderate, inverse
relationship between serum cholesterol levels and
depressed mood in the postpartum period. Thus, these
data support the notion that precipitous decreases in
blood cholesterol have negative effects on mood, and
thus suggest that the change in lipid concentrations is
causing the mood effects.


The findings for anxiety patients are in contrast to
those among depressed patients. Generally, elevated
total cholesterol levels have been reported among
subjects with anxiety disorders, particularly panic

[p. <i>585</i>] | [<a href="psyc.get.jpg.aspx?display=page&amp;legacyid=1000284044-I00139&amp;api=new&amp;maxwidth=700">Page Image</a>]<br />

What might explain these sometimes contradictory
findings? At least some of the discrepancies can be
explained by examining the specific populations
tested. For example, evidence for a relationship
between transient depressed mood and lipid levels
among nondepressed populations is stronger than is
the evidence among clinically depressed patients.
Evidence for a negative relationship between cholesterol
and depressed mood among those treated for
lipid lowering is more consistent among primary prevention
trials than among secondary prevention trials.
At least one study has determined that age is an
important determinant of the relationship between
cholesterol and depression; a negative association of
lipid levels and depression was found only among
older individuals. With regard to anxiety, the presence
or absence of comorbid depression is an important
factor to consider, as is the presence or absence of
sleep panic. Finally, uncovering the causal relationship
between cholesterol and mood states will clarify
the mechanisms involved.


MECHANISMS


How do psychosocial factors influence lipid concentrations
in the blood? Anxiety, depression, and
hostility, as well as stress, may exert influences on
lipids directly, indirectly, or both. For example, stimulation
of the sympathetic nervous system, as occurs
during anxiety, aggression, and with some other mood
states, increases blood pressure, catecholamine concentrations,
and cortisol release. Ultimately, lipolysis,
or the release of stored lipids into the circulation,
occurs, resulting in changes in circulating lipid levels.
Arousal of the autonomic nervous system also alters
lipid metabolism by influencing regulation of lipoprotein
lipase and hepatic lipase, the enzymes responsible for
the metabolism of specific lipoproteins. Cholesterol
influences neuronal membranes, and can influence the
production and metabolism of several neurotransmitters.
The best documented of these effects is the
reduced serotonergic function that occurs with
decreased cholesterol levels. Serotonin has prominent
effects on mood, such as depression, aggression, and
impulsivity, and thus provides a putative mechanism
linking decreased cholesterol with negative mood
states.


More indirectly, affect and mood changes alter
behaviors, such as diet, exercise, interpersonal interaction,
and sleep patterns. Many such behaviors have
already been established as important influences on
lipid concentrations in the circulation.


There is a strong public health focus on reducing
blood cholesterol levels. Low cholesterol, either
induced or naturally occurring, can have complex
influences on psychosocial factors, and particularly
mood.


--<i>Catherine M. Stoney
and Diane Bonfiglio</i>


<i>See also</i> ANXIETY, HEART DISEASE, AND MORTALITY; HEART
DISEASE: ANGER, DEPRESSION, AND ANXIETY; NATIONAL
CHOLESTEROL EDUCATIONAL PROGRAM (NCEP)


<b>Further Reading</b>


Agargun, M. Y. (2002). Serum cholesterol concentration,
depression, and anxiety. <i>Acta Psychiatrica Scandinavica,
105</i>, 81-83.

