<font size="4"><b>11: Sold into the Hands of Madmen</b></font>

It is the primitive civilization which functions with a
"oneness"; when one string is pulled, they all move simultaneously.
Their culture is group-centered. If one person gets
out of line, he is punished. A tribal "big brother" ideology
cares for the "health" of its charges. But the characteristic
of a democratic, free society is individual responsibility, a
right to one's own opinions, a right to be oneself—not regulation
of his hormonal activity by a set of "values" prescribed
by a group. It is a person's privilege not to conform to any
group. He is entitled to use his own conscience.


Yet a sinister transition has taken place, back to medieval
barbarism. In place of ordinary anonymity, there is an all-out
campaign to make records of everyone and see that he
is "cured." You may be "sick and don't know it!" "You have
a problem, even though you are not aware of it; it is in the
unconscious!"


Does your body function normally? Horrors, you are ill.
A scheme must be conjured up to get you to a hospital or
clinic, to burn out the very core of your being. You are
persecuted with secret science, magical contact of one's body

[p. <i>38</i>]

How is such a thing possible? Somehow the world got out
of touch with reality. There are absurd definitions of "maturity."
The standards advised apply to mature cattle or
mature puppets. There is an epidemic of madness, but not
in "patients." It is a quack science, made up of maniacs, who
prey on normal, healthy people.


A chronic state of protest to this tyranny is mature; it is
not "chronic illness." There are too few of these mature
people. Irreparable damage to the body is a matter that
should be known beforehand, so that the individual has an
opportunity to refuse such "treatment." As it is now, fully
competent people, of high morals and bodily healthy, are
turned over to destruction. It is a monstrous falsehood that
it is essential for a society to have its best citizens sacrifice
their faultless bodies. Liberation from slavery means putting
an end to the power of doctors to control the bodies
and mind of free citizens. Since they can't confess their hypocrisy
to the world, they plan a sneak attack and blacken
the character of innocent people in order to destroy their
health by "therapy."

