TRANSCRIPT OF AUDIO FILE:
______________________________________________________________________________
BEGIN TRANSCRIPT:
PATIENT: So, I want to talk about where I am with Jemma and some big decisions I want to make in our relationship. They all fold a little bit into some of the issues that came up last week about boundaries. The basic starting place is that I just am giddy with pleasure about how much good feeling I have about where I am in my life. I am just overwhelmed with a sense of appreciation and gratitude for what has brought me to this place. I'm in a place where I feel very, very safe with my instincts and myself. What I'm doing and saying is just like no other experience I have ever had in my life. It's almost out of superstition that I don't want to go and try to examine what's brought me here. But this is relevant. What that has led me to is just tremendous freedom from any anxiety about engaging with almost everybody that I'm coming into contact with in my life. I'm flirting in a way, but just being very, very open and out there... As a result, all kinds of random meetings... I meet somebody and we talk for a few minutes. I find out she's looking to meet somebody new. I fix her up with a friend of mine. They start going out and then it turns out she can be helpful to me on a deal that I had no idea she had some contact with. There have just been a series of some amazingly wonderful things that are ensuing from the fact that (phone rings) I am just doing...
PATIENT: (offline phone conversation at 2:25-2:39)
PATIENT: So as a result of just feeling so good about being out there and having all of these connections and wonderful things coming from them, I've come to feel that I really, really want to continue to just spread out and connect with more and more people. Engage with more and more people and do more and more things... I think I owe it to Jemma to say to her that... To the extent that we're having a very intense and exclusive relationship, that is not going to work for me anymore. I have to take the chance that the opposite of that might not work for her. It's going to be hard, but I really think I owe it to her... I'm going to have that discussion with her tomorrow night. We're going to spend the weekend... There are a lot of other things coming up in the next few weeks. It's her birthday on January 28th. I'm sure she has expectations of a very good present from me. There are holidays and things where I'm meeting more and more of her friends and family. But the amazing thing is I think Jemma has a large part of why I am where I am today. It's attributable to the wonders that have come out of my relationship. So it's kind of ironic (clears throat). And the most wonderful thing about her is her fantastic honesty and authenticity. She's just been a model for me. What good things come from being as authentic and honest and non-bullshitty as you can be with people... That's what's made her an absolute, wonderful pleasure. I may not meet anybody quite like her, but I really want to try. Actually, I had a date this morning...
COUNSELOR: Really?
PATIENT: Mm hmm.
COUNSELOR: Why?
PATIENT: Just because it just feel so kind of bold (ph) to get out there and see what else is out there. I could continue to go deeper and work harder on my relationship with Jemma and find even greater feelings and pleasures in knowing her...
COUNSELOR: There must be something that you don't like about it or you wouldn't...
PATIENT: That I don't like about...
COUNSELOR: Your relationship with Jemma.
PATIENT: Yeah. There are a few things. That is true. I think there are certain limitations in her life that are confining to both of us. She has what I think... She's taken the position that her 16-year-old daughter really needs her time and emotion and attention for the next two years. I don't quibble with her if that's her view, but it doesn't work for me. The kid is 16. I think she's old enough to lead a more independent life than she's allowing her to lead. Her need to be with her as much as she is, is sending me a message that she's not trusting of her and not... I'm just put off by that. That's one area that I don't like. Secondly, I also just have a sense that Jemma will not ever be happy with a lifestyle such as I'd prefer, of eating in kind of grungy places and avoiding conspicuous consumption of fine dining and music. I have a traditional mainstream life that Jemma enjoys, filled with a lot of the trappings of an upper middle-class existence that really repels me. I don't see her as typical of the Jappy (ph)-type approach of, "What can I do for you?" I mean, she's willing to hold her own and pay her own way, but still it's just a value and a part of her life that I really abhor. I totally disconnect her from the activities, but still, it gives me zero pleasure to participate in that part of her life. And there are a few other things around the idea that she's very much a product of kind of living with a successful doctor for many years. She enjoys a mainstream, very traditional, bourgeois kind of approach to life. That is a place that... I've been in that lifestyle and I've sampled it and have had the good fortune to have a good exposure to it. I've done enough of it. If I never have a particularly luxurious meal or stay in a luxurious hotel again or do anything of a luxurious nature until the end of my life, I will be happy. I've done enough of that and I want to go in directions that have little to do with material luxuries and more to do with the expansion of human (ph) potential and experimenting sexually. I've suggested to her to do a little bit more wild things in our sex life and live a little bit more on the wild side, so to speak. She doesn't particularly feel comfortable with that, which I can appreciate. So I just think there are enough differences in our approach to life, that the huge pleasure I get from being with her and the sweetness and incredible decency and (inaudible at 9:17) that I feel when I'm with her is offset by her need to be with somebody a little bit more willing to risk and to be out there.
I see this also, in her approach to her divorce settlement. She's taking a very provincial view that I think is very self-defeating. She's continuing to work at a very low-paying job, well below her capacity because she doesn't want to earn too much money, because her husband could use it against her. That is just stupid and I've told her that. I think she has a lot more potential. She's 47-years old and she should understand the life that 47 is not as it could otherwise be at 40. She ought to get out there and make the most of her life. If it turns out she starts making a lot of money, good for her. A mentality that says, "I want to earn little and not do too much, God forbid, my husband will give me less money..." That is just... It sickens me. So I did as you've asked me about my feelings about her. I'm coming to see more clearly than ever that there are just some big places where our value system differs. The biggest, single value that she has in her life which is honesty and authenticity and hiding nothing and dealing (ph) no manipulation and just being out there is a pretty eminent value. I share that with her.
COUNSELOR: You're the one who knows her and it's your relationship. You're the only one who's going to be able to decide what you're going to do about the relationship. As you're talking about her wanting to ensure an ample settlement with her husband and her interest in material things, it does ring a lot of bells for me in a way. I think that you often experience women as how do I say this... Well, maybe I should leave it to you. But there is something similar in some of these feelings that you have about her. That may, for all I know, very well be exactly who she is.
PATIENT: Yeah. I think there's a little bit of that.
COUNSELOR: And you're going to be the only one who'll be able to figure it out for yourself. But, the part where the position that you feel that you're in, is to satisfy and satisfy and satisfy the woman's needs, and it's been expressed mostly in financial terms as you speak about women in your life, I wonder... That sounds like there's some stuff there to think about or to explore.
PATIENT: I accept that. It was striking to me that this woman who I went out with the other night, who I just am suddenly crazed about, I don't know if it's reciprocal or not, but we had a wonderful first date. She's been away for a couple weeks and I just can't wait for the second date. But notably, she offered immediately to split everything. She's a very successful photographer. She's published a number of photography books and she comes from a horse farm family with a lot of wealth. She has a lot of money in her own right. She stands to inherit a lot of money. She's a well-to-do woman who lives very well. I was just so struck by the fact that she was so willing to immediately create a sharing arrangement in a way. That was important to me. (13:22)
I know financial issues are going to be coming up between Skyler and me and how we deal with problems. So, you're right. I guess what I'm seeing in Jemma is what I've seen in so many, many women. There's a little bit of a sense of entitlement that the men should pay. The men should pay for dinner and pay in the divorce and pay this and pay that. It sadly brings up that they're disempowering themselves by being so dependent and being so insistent on not doing their fair share, financially. They're really making themselves into a second-class... being the junior partner. I see that about her and I think I've tried to suggest that it would be so much more empowering for her to take a greater share of the financial burdens in every aspect of life. That's just an ingrained, cultural thing that I don't think will ever change in her. I think that many, many, many women come from that same place. It's just probably, who knows, been inherited for so long that women have been kind of second-class citizens financially. That's why I want to be out of a big-spending culture. I want to be in a place where money is not a constant irritant. If I date women whose values are all about just hanging out and talking and reading and doing things where money doesn't come up, I think it's going to be less than a problem. It will smooth out... That's one of the real reasons I want to meet and engage with other women and continue... My real thing with Jemma, is how can I segue into a relationship with her that works for both of us? I would have to just kind of feel my way through that as we talk about where I'm coming from and where I'd like us to be, which is to continue to be close and supportive. If it's good for her, it'll be great for me for us to continue to have sex together. But if it stops, if that's not good for her then I think I'm prepared to accept that our sexual relationship will end. (16:06)
It's been wonderful, but I'm just feeling like it's not enough. I want to get involved with some other women. It may be more than that. I think I'm beginning to feel that monogamy is not where I want to be at this stage of my life. I'm feeling so clear and good and joyful, and it's really important that I just share that general joy that I have in the full range of my relationships with other women. So if I meet somebody and we're having fun and becoming friends, if it could lead to sex, great. If it doesn't, okay. But I don't want to feel limited because I've got a committed, exclusive sexual relationship. I want to talk that through with Jemma. I don't know. She may well come back and say it's okay (cough) for us to keep sleeping together on a non-exclusive basis. I think in a way that would be good for her. Sooner or later she's going to be divorced and will need to think about getting remarried. She should begin to (cough), I think, have some intensive experiences with other guys because I just see that I'm going to be... It's possible that after an interval, maybe I'd come back to her and admit I'd made a mistake. But I somehow doubt it. So if she meets somebody and falls in love and goes off, I wish her well. That's hard to (cough) say that, but that's where I am. I think I need to really come clean with her now while I feel that way before too many other of her friends and family get to meet me and become convinced that this is where her life is going. So that's a big decision I made this week. This business about, and it comes out of this tremendous pleasure I'm getting in this freely... I once read a book about flirting. It said flirting has nothing necessarily to do with sex. It's just kind of a banter with somebody else where you're doing things to make him or her feel good about themselves and they can take pleasure. You might comment on somebody's clothes or appearance or the twinkle in their eye or something they've said. It needn't be anything more than just a desire to make them feel good and see where things come from. I was thinking about that in the context of our relationship. Some of this boundary issue stuff that came up last week. I guess, what I'm feeling is that because now I am so pleased and happy and getting such benefits out of the flirtatious interactions that I'm having with women and even some men, I guess I felt that that's kind of what I would like to see more of here in the sense of an interchange between us. (19:58)
COUNSELOR: You want a flirtatious interaction here?
PATIENT: Yeah. Sort of. Yeah. Well, it kind of rings a little silly, but I guess it would be nice. It would be the... I guess what I'm hoping to get from you is perhaps more... Again, it's the same thing of more feedback, more of a sense of... You've been in a unique place in my life. You've seen me go from this incredible depth of despair I was in at the beginning of our work, and then through all of these various zigzags and thoughts about what changes I should make - should I leave Chicago and move to Ohio? So you've been witness to a remarkable change in my emotional life. And within the limits of your need to do what you need to do professionally, it would just give me huge pleasure to get more of an engagement with you, in the sense that...
COUNSELOR: Can you say more what you mean by that? What is it you're imagining that you would like to have happen?
PATIENT: What you did a minute ago, where you reminded me of some issues that I've talked about with women and money before. I would like, I guess... I guess I would to get more of a sense of your feelings about me, reactions to me, comments about aspects from previous sessions that may either repeat themselves or be so completely dissimilar that it kind of strikes you as odd. I'm kind of taking this turn now, and I see that it's a different course from two or three weeks ago... Or, just, I don't know. I guess there's a great pleasure I get in talking. I guess most of our sessions I'm talking. As I talk, I'm thinking and learning. I guess I keep coming back to the idea that there's a whole other way of our interacting, which would be much more of a dialogue. (23:05)
COUNSELOR: I'm thinking of... I'm still not sure what that means for you. But I'm thinking of you saying that flirtation is a way that you make the other person feel good about them. I'm thinking of how often you tell me of how wonderful you're doing. I'm also thinking of last week when you had the idea that you could help me by doing well. And so, it does seem to me that there is at least one way to think about one part of what we're talking about right now. The way that you imagine getting close to me is by being extremely pleasing to me. The form that that takes and making me feel good... The form that often seems to take is that you're doing extremely, extremely well in your life. I'm happy to hear that you're doing well.
PATIENT: So you think it may be...
COUNSELOR: But I'm wondering about...
PATIENT: You think it may be manipulation or that I'm just trying to say that only to try to stroke you and flirt and say...
COUNSELOR: What do you think?
PATIENT: Pardon?
COUNSELOR: What do you think?
PATIENT: I think it's a little bit of that. You may be right. But I think it's also very damned authentic, too. I don't think it's dishonest. I think this flirtation bit is really, even though it may be a little bit manipulative in the sense of really (whatever that means) trying to generate a response from you. I guess in that sense it's manipulations. I want to get you to say something bad. If I make you feel really good, then you'll say, "Hey, great. I feel great." And therefore, I'll be that much more energized to say nice things back. So there is that sense of manipulation, I guess, in what I'm doing. But I think that that's a very authentic part of myself that I've just come to grips with recently. It feels so liberating from a lot of the chains and tyrannies from my mother and lots of other things.
COUNSELOR: I wonder...
PATIENT: About?
COUNSELOR: I'm just... I would just leave open some question about how much of a liberation this is.
PATIENT: Okay...
COUNSELOR: Because how is that me feeling good is the paramount concern here. And how is it that that's the only way that you could get something that you might need here, as if you make me feel good.
PATIENT: I'll tell you why. I think, because what it says is, for the first time in my life I'm doing something other than just obsessing and angsting about my own life. I'm actually trying to... In some ways, I'm oblivious to my own issues and just intent on focusing on the people that I come in contact with and trying to make them feel good. And in doing that, it's just nice to focus on them and stop focusing on me. It shows me that that's what's freeing. I don't have to stop and worry constantly. I say this to Lindsay - what's she going to think. Then I cheat myself out of time that I should be spending solving other problems. All these kind of terrible, ridiculous dialogues that I've had with myself over the years... I've stopped.
COUNSELOR: I can't follow that. What is the dialogue?
PATIENT: Well, I think in the past...
COUNSELOR: In regard to...
PATIENT: (overlapping) I probably would've sat here and angsted over to the extent that... I think the old Aidan of maybe a year ago would have been so depressed, conflicted, exasperated, anxious and nervous that I would've just sat here and totally been mindless that you existed or any joy or pleasure that you'd be getting out of our time together. All I'd want to do is sit here and whine (phone rings) and complain and talk about how bedeviled I am by this, that and the other thing and not get out of my own way. Now, I think I'm a place where I stopped angsting about all of that. And I can say, all right, well there's another person in this room and I'd like to have my interaction with her be as much a part of what I'm doing here... Have this experience be as much about her... She's in some kind of program. You're doing this, not for $150 or $200 dollars an hour. You're not... Maybe I'm misunderstanding, but I had the impression that you're in some kind of research project and you're in some kind of training role. Maybe it was a misimpression I had. But there's something... (28:47)
COUNSELOR: You came here for therapy.
PATIENT: Right.
COUNSELOR: The way that you're speaking right now is as if the purpose of this hour is to make me feel good.
PATIENT: Yeah. Not the sole purpose, but I think I'm saying that I can be... I want to just put it out there, for whatever it's worth, wherever it goes, that I am not going to be mindless of you. I don't think I want to self-obsess. I did come here for therapy. I recognize that. And I guess to the extent that you're saying that I have a right to just sit here and go on and on and whine about whatever my issues are and not take into account you're being here...
COUNSELOR: Well, I'm not sure that I can... Maybe it's not possible to clarify this at the moment.
PATIENT: Yeah.
COUNSELOR: But there is something here about... I sense on your part that the way to make this work is to figure out what I need and to satisfy my needs. I'll say that there's a way that it reminds me of some of your concerns about women and money. They're not really interested in you. They just want you to satisfy them with money. And now, here with me, am I really interested in understanding you and helping you to understand yourself, or do I just want you to make me feel good? The coin that you'll pan (ph)... I'm not charging large fees. I'm a trainee. So the way that you'll pay me and satisfy me is by telling whoever it is that I'm great and you're doing great and that shows that I'm great. The flip side of that is that if I sit here for too long being quiet and not providing feedback, well, you might be angry and get me in trouble.
PATIENT: No. Or just feel that maybe you're just totally bored and de-energized and just tired of listening to my... (31:36)
COUNSELOR: So you haven't managed to satisfy and please me. And that's infuriating, I think.
PATIENT: Yeah.
COUNSELOR: For all of your efforts, you bend over backwards to tell me and let me know that I'm wonderful...
PATIENT: Right...
COUNSELOR: And then if you don't get a response from me from doing that, you're going to report me to the authorities.
PATIENT: (chuckles) Not that. To the extent that (inaudible at 32:04), yes. No. You say that and it makes me feel ridiculous about it. I guess I'm looking for win-win, to kind of use a trade phrase solution, so that I can get... I guess I once read in a book that I can get what I want need by making sure the other person gets what they need. And so, my sense is that the more... And I think this comes from some of the questions in the greeting sheets, too. The more I get you to like me, appreciate me, feel good about Aidan, the harder you'll try, the more committed to a successful, therapeutic relationship you'll be. To the contrary, the more you think I'm a jerk, or an idiot or just saying stupid, dumb, whiney things, week after week after week, the less committed and energized you might be about... The more distasteful this session will be, where you'll look forward to just getting out of here and let the 30 sessions go and then chalk me up to being... So I'm kind of invested in seeing that because it's the end of a long day. It's like I come here at 6:00 and I know...
COUNSELOR: So you need to energize me...
PATIENT: I need to energize you. I need to at least do a little bit...
COUNSELOR: Pump me up so that I can give you something.
PATIENT: Okay. You could say that. Or at least to make this...
COUNSELOR: It sounds like the end of a treadmill.
PATIENT: Okay. But what's bad about it? Why is that bad? If I'm doing that with everybody in my life, if I'm pumping up everybody in my life to make them feel good in the hopes that I might get something good in return, what's wrong with that? How is that disserving me? Maybe this is why I've been feeling so good recently, because this tactic of making others feel good seems to be paying dividends for me. I'm feeling good about making others feel good. And then every so often, the other's feeling good and then they'll throw me some bone and now it's all kind of spiraling in a positive way. So that tactic I'm just bringing into our work together. It may not be the appropriate place to be doing that....
COUNSELOR: This sounds like my comments are turning into criticisms and you're doing something wrong here. That's really not what I mean.
PATIENT: Okay. But you did say something about; well this is therapy after all. Your suggestion that I may be doing something other than therapy, or that I came here for therapy...
COUNSELOR: (overlapping) I'm struck by that you came here for help...
PATIENT: Right.
COUNSELOR: ... and for understanding. And yet, you feel that in order to get that, you really have to be on my good side. And you have to be on my good side by making me feel very good about myself. That sounds like a tough position to be in. And you sort of mentioned your mother and your (inaudible at 35:57) but I wonder. I wonder about this treadmill of pleasing women and pleasing women and pleasing women. The only way to get them to smile upon you is to make them feel good about themselves.
PATIENT: Yes. That's exactly it.
COUNSELOR: It's as if the only thing that would be of value in you is the extent to which you can make a woman feel good about herself.
PATIENT: Yeah. Well, not the only, but it's maybe it's...
COUNSELOR: I'm exaggerating for the fact.
PATIENT: Yeah, maybe it's the quickest way, the fastest way to get what I want from a woman, which is what I want more than anything else in life - lots of tender affection from all the women in my life. So the way to (inaudible at 36:55) out to manipulate them by making them feel as good as I can and then wonderful things will come from that. I'll feel great. The more women I can do that with, the bigger Aidan female fan club will be. I think it reminds me of a movie I once saw, "The Man Who Loved Women". The first scene was, the guy's burial grave. All of these dozens and dozens of women were showing up at his funeral. That's probably a little fantasy that I enjoy. That at my gravesite, there will be thousands of women saying, "What a wonderful guy Aidan was. What a sad loss it is for him not to be here." And why I say that...
COUNSELOR: (overlapping) This is a complicated thing. Because if there are thousands and thousands, then no one is going to be very important. And that must be a key as well. Because if any one is too important, then it's just too dangerous, isn't it, for you?
PATIENT: To the extent that it confines me...
COUNSELOR: Well, she'd hold your being in her hands, wouldn't she?
PATIENT: Right.
COUNSELOR: She could crush you, right? If she's one of many, then she can't hurt you too badly.
PATIENT: Okay.
COUNSELOR: But if she's just one, that seems like a risky situation. You'd need to keep making her feel good. And woe unto you if you slipped (ph).
PATIENT: I hadn't really looked at it that way. I guess the way I was more looking at it was, I'm not even aware of the possibility of my failing to have a successful relationship with a woman. It's like beneath the realm of any expectation that I have. My relationships with women are not going to be uniformly successful.
COUNSELOR: I think it's a constant anxiety here in this room.
PATIENT: Yeah. To my extent, perhaps.
COUNSELOR: I mean, whether you're having a successful relationship with me is something... I think you worded that quite a bit.
PATIENT: Yeah. I guess I have no choice. I guess, because of the nature of our relationship, I have no choice but to worry about that because I have no way of really getting you to put your cards on the table. It'll always gnaw at me. Like I've said so many times before, there are so many clear cut ways with every other woman in my life but you...
COUNSELOR: Going to bed...
PATIENT: Yeah. Going to bed with them or them going out having fun with me, dancing with me, hugging me or whatever. You're the one woman on the face of the earth that I can't push to the limit to say, all right. Julie, tell me, is there something really positive happening between us? I could ask you that question, but you probably wouldn't answer it. So you're in a unique position in my life, never being able to tell me yay or nay. Aidan, you're a neat guy and this is a fun hour or Aidan you're wasting my time and the quicker these 30 sessions are over, the better off we'll all be. So I'll never get any answer from you. So I guess I could just say that because you're not going to and I'll just have to recognize that Julie Elders is the one woman in the world I will never understand where she's coming from. So then maybe that's my challenge, to try to break all the rules...
COUNSELOR: I think we have to...
PATIENT: ... break all the rules and force you to do it. Somehow just keep trying and one day it'll just slip out. "Alright, Aidan. I give up. I'll tell you. You really are a schmuck," or "Aidan, I really am pleased that we had this chance to work together," you know.
COUNSELOR: That's a little different, the last thing you said. I was going to say; I think it's worth looking at how the only two options you allow me is a thumbs up or a thumbs down of you.
PATIENT: Um, yeah. But...
COUNSELOR: As if there couldn't be much more complicated kinds of aspects to this experience on both sides.
PATIENT: Yeah. I get the feeling that these encounters are getting more and more complex and challenging and exciting for me. I get the feeling that they are challenging for you. I have to believe that it's kind of a little bit outside of the normal. As you've said, you're here for therapy, as I suspect most of the people that sit in this chair are here to just talk about themselves. I get the feeling that by constantly bringing this back to my relationship with you and trying to coax things out of you and constantly coming up against your boundaries, as you say, I'm putting you in an uncomfortable position. Maybe at some point you're going to say, that's it. I'm tired of all this, Aidan. I'm just going to tell you once and for all. If you want to know where I'm coming from, here. Now, let's get on with this and go on to something else. (43:21)
And that comes back to this business that we got into last week about boundary issues. I felt this very pure (inaudible at 43:30). You said, "You're really pressing against my boundaries." And I spent a lot of time thinking about that. I originally felt some embarrassment and shame and thought back to all the other people's boundaries that I've stepped on. And then I got over it pretty damned quickly. And I said, so what. So I've stepped on people's boundaries. What it does for me, and I'm not going to explore because there are probably all kinds of things around... My mother maybe stepped on my boundaries or why I'm so willing to just blunder into other people's boundaries. What it does do, this kind of in-your-face approach to my relationships with others and with you, is it brings the gratification of some kind of immediate feedback. And so by constantly pressing up against your boundaries, I guess I'm getting some pleasure out of forcing you to respond in a way that may be uncomfortable for you, and again maybe not. I guess I'm trying to do it in a way that has a certain amount of graciousness to it. I think that you can see that my intent is benign. It's not malevolent. I'm not here to be a prick just to make your life difficult. But just because...
COUNSELOR: Maybe there are moments when you feel like making my life difficult. I mean just to allow for that possibility.
PATIENT: Okay. But not for a bad reason, I think. Just maybe because I think it's interesting for you to think about challenging the rules that you're operating under, I guess, is part of my whole thing to get everybody from Jemma to challenge the bourgeois rules that she lives under, and for everybody in my life. Maybe I see myself as an ing�nue provocateur, to get everybody to throw off all their chains. I'm throwing off my chains. Julie will throw off her chains. Jemma will throw off her chains. Everybody in my life will throw off their chains. We'll all be magically free.
COUNSELOR: I'm stuck.
PATIENT: You had a wry smile as I said that, so I know... okay. (cough) (46:00).
END TRANSCRIPT
