TRANSCRIPT OF AUDIO FILE:
______________________________________________________________________________
BEGIN TRANSCRIPT:
COUNSELOR: Session 10.
(Inaudible background conversation.)
CLIENT: Oh, I'm just hot right now.
COUNSELOR: Let me try to check with you. You know, this is the last time I'll be here. Now next week, I'll be over in the Central Park Bank Building. And I'm trying to set up a schedule. Do you know where that is?
CLIENT: Yeah.
COUNSELOR: Okay. Yeah, first, could you come earlier in the afternoon? [0:01:09.6] 
CLIENT: Yeah. Can I see you every two weeks or does it have to be weekly?
COUNSELOR: No, it can be every two weeks. Would that be better?
CLIENT: Yeah.
COUNSELOR: Is it kind of crowded?
CLIENT: No, that isn't what the problem is.
COUNSELOR: What's the problem?
CLIENT: Well, I thought I could save money.
COUNSELOR: Oh, I see, I see.
CLIENT: Oh, I'm so hot. Is it hot in - no, it's not hot. Well, what are you going to have over there, the same thing, the clinic?
COUNSELOR: It's the same thing pretty much. [0:02:01.5] 
CLIENT: Well, there's nothing new. You know, I reacted childishly one day this week. I have a friend who's always been patronizing. I know it sounds like I'm always complaining when I come in here how badly people treat me. 
COUNSELOR: I guess it feels like you're always complaining, but those are the kind of things that are on your mind.
CLIENT: Well, not really. I've sort of (inaudible). It's kind of, she's always implying that, well, you know, she's 40, so she's sort of patronizing people anyway. But I went to a barbecue at her house. And, you know, I'm left handed and I was cutting up chives for her and she said oh, you're left handed. And she went on and on about how left handedness bothers her and left handed people don't do things right. And then she was talking about the word left handedness comes from some Latin word which means sinister. 
And I just thought, well, I just sort, well, I was quiet the rest of the evening, and I told her that she was prejudiced, not, I mean prejudiced against people in the sense that she doesn't accept them or if she does she's always pointing out what she thinks are their faults. And I didn't think it was right. [0:03:42.8] 
COUNSELOR: But it really aggravated you.
CLIENT: Well, not really, not after - I made a decision that anybody who is this way and doesn't accept me the way I am that I'm not going to be, I'm just going to drop them. And I really mean it because I don't have to take that.
COUNSELOR: Like, you don't have to stand that. If they're just going to criticize you, then you can just live without that.
CLIENT: Yeah, if I think it, if they're pretty, if they do it all the time.
COUNSELOR: Constantly.
CLIENT: Constantly, right. So that made me feel better.
COUNSELOR: Made you feel better to decide that.
CLIENT: Yeah, yeah. Well, I've been feeling (inaudible at [0:04:48.5]). You know, I bought these three books on positive thinking. And I know, I remember what you told me. They do sound like fairy tales a little bit. They don't relate too much to my problem because it's usually, they're usually trying to build up a person's confidence to become successful in business a lot, to make money. There's not too much about personal problems.
COUNSELOR: No other part you're interested in. [0:05:15.1] 
CLIENT: Yeah, I don't want to become rich or anything. I mean if I thought I could, but (inaudible).
I don't know. I felt that there was some good things and things that I'd been thinking about. Ideas that I'd been having on my own about if a person - people used to always tell me that you're not as attractive or you're not going to attract men or you're not going to be attractive in general if you don't have confidence in yourself. 
And I would, my answer to that would be well, how does anyone know if someone else has confidence? That's a private thought or private feeling and how does anyone know it. And I'm just beginning to realize that it does show and it influences your behavior. [0:06:12.2] 
COUNSELOR: And you're beginning to realize how much it influences your behavior.
CLIENT: Yeah, would (inaudible). It was especially evident, you know, in my dealing with this last, this man that I was infatuated with. 
COUNSELOR: Especially evident that your, how you felt about yourself showed.
CLIENT: And I was able to see it.
COUNSELOR: That was embarrassing?
CLIENT: No, it's not - you mean what was embarrassing?
COUNSELOR: It was embarrassing to be able to see it in your or just that . . .
CLIENT: Well, I've never been able to forgive myself for some of my behavior. I thought that I behaved with too much anxiety (ph). And I think a couple of cases before that, I acted this way with men as if - well, this also pointed out that sometimes you don't see yourself in a certain role that you want. 
For example, like if a person doesn't see himself as a speaker then he can't speak. If you see yourself as a speaker, you can be a public speaker, which I don't know if that's really true. Like I suppose like if I saw myself as a corporation president then I could become one, so I think that's a little extreme. But I think in my case it would be that it could be true that I've never seen myself as being attractive to men. Maybe, I don't know if that's true, but it's possible.
COUNSELOR: Maybe you never have seen yourself as kind of a person that would appeal to men. [0:08:11.3] 
CLIENT: Yeah. I don't know if that has anything to do with the problem, but that's a possibility.
COUNSELOR: But it sounds like also you don't even really know if that's true, if that's how you feel.
CLIENT: I think it's generally true. I usually have trouble believing that it's possible for me to have a long-term relationship with one person as some women do. I know some girls in school who are living with somebody. You know, a lot of people live together now; they don't get married.
COUNSELOR: It feels hard to imagine that could happen to you.
CLIENT: It always has. I might daydream about it, but it doesn't seem, I don't quite see it. And . . . [0:09:01.4] 
COUNSELOR: It feels like that wouldn't happen to you.
CLIENT: And, you know, I was just thinking that perhaps if there had been instances where men were interested, if they were, maybe I didn't know how to react. Maybe I was uncomfortable because I didn't really, it didn't seem natural, was a natural thing to happen.
COUNSELOR: So you're saying maybe something could have happened if you had felt more natural.
CLIENT: Possibly. But I don't know.
COUNSELOR: But maybe even you're saying when you were in those situations you just felt very uncomfortable if things like that started to happen.
CLIENT: I think I did. Or even with men who never made passes or never got that familiar with, maybe they would have liked me better if I (inaudible at [0:10:01.1]).
It didn't seem at the time that I was uncomfortable, but thinking back, I think that I was, as if oh, now, this man is interested right now. Will he find fault with me? Will I lose that interest?
COUNSELOR: Kind of a worry.
CLIENT: Anxiety.
COUNSELOR: Tenseness, you know, all the time about holding his interest.
CLIENT: If it's really there.
COUNSELOR: So if you really like him.
CLIENT: But, you know, a funny thing yesterday, I don't know what it means. I went shopping with a friend and I bought a blanket for my niece, a crib blanket for my new niece. And my friend bought a dress for her niece. And looking at those baby clothes, I didn't feel maternal. Well, I've known this before. I've known quite a while that (inaudible). And of course that might be that I don't want children, maybe has nothing to do with anything. [0:11:18.8] 
COUNSELOR: What was thinking it had to do with?
CLIENT: Well, it made me think that I don't really want to be a housewife.
COUNSELOR: It made you think that maybe even if you could be one, you wouldn't choose to be one.
CLIENT: Oh, I would be married and not have children. Or maybe I would want children. 
COUNSELOR: But maybe you don't want children.
CLIENT: Well, when I see women with children, with buggies or when they have two or three tots with them, I just look, I feel sorry for them. I don't feel jealous
COUNSELOR: You feel glad that isn't you.
CLIENT: Yeah, like oh, they're so tired now. [0:12:05.4] 
COUNSELOR: And I'm free.
CLIENT: Yes, yes. I have felt that way two or three years that I felt very free.
And . . . and another thing. This friend I was with went to call her boyfriend to tell him where she was, even though she had no plans for the evening. And I asked her why, why does he have to know where you are because it seemed like an odd thing to do. Well, she says, well, I want to see him. And I don't know. 
Now when I see that women are overly dependent on men, I just think, I just think that it's foolish. Not that they're going to lose a boyfriend, but I just feel that they'll get along much better because I feel like I behave too independently with the man that I liked. And I'm really set against it, you know, being too dependent or giving up your values or your habits for somebody else. [0:13:30.8] 
COUNSELOR: You really wouldn't - you're saying . . .
CLIENT: I find it, it does annoy me when other women do - I don't care what they do, but the more I see it, the more I feel that I wouldn't do that. Well, for example, you know, she told me that her boyfriend told her not to wear makeup. And I just said well, I wouldn't do what he says. You know, I just feel that's a personal habit. If a habit annoys him then you should, then he should either accept you with your habits or leave you alone. 
And I think that maybe I was beginning to feel that way because I've had to make my own life without the attention of too many men. And now I feel that perhaps it's a good thing because I've never become dependent on a man. I've had to be independent, so now I feel independent. And I wouldn't give it all up even if there was somebody. 
COUNSELOR: And because of your background, you've learned or you've kind of turned into an independent person and even if there were a man, you wouldn't change your habits of living just because he wanted you to.
CLIENT: No, only in the sense that you have to - well, I couldn't live exactly the way I live now. You have to live as two people live and compromise. But I would still want to remain mostly myself and still, I think I could still give to another person. At least I feel genuinely headed towards that. [0:15:17.4] 
So I just felt that, well, I didn't read this in a book, it's just things I've been thinking about. And I said well, I can use my experience, you know, to make me very weak or it can make me very strong. Because, well, you see I see so many men, like for example men on the fact that they would go to parties without their wives. And I can see that relationships between men and women seem to be very fragile. Of course, these were certain types of men. All men don't do that, all men don't play around, but some do and some women are jilted. 
And I says, and I'm saying well, all my life I've been worried about getting a man. But what's going to happen if I get one? What if it doesn't work out? 
COUNSELOR: Like it isn't stable even if you get one.
CLIENT: Yeah, it may or may not be stable. And what am I going to do? Am I going to fall apart? And . . . [0:16:22.8] 
COUNSELOR: Because you think, I want to learn to live with other men even if I had one or if I don't, you know.
CLIENT: Yeah, I think it's one or the other because I think sometimes if you want something real bad, you finally get it, you can be very possessive about it. Oh, I finally got this, and then fall apart.
COUNSELOR: You don't want that to happen.
CLIENT: I don't, because I really suffered emotionally. You know, the past two years were two, two fellows and I just don't want to - I'm not saying I'm going to be happy all the time, but I just don't want to be that boon (ph).
COUNSELOR: You don't want that to happen again, so you want to build a way of life in which you can be more independent.
CLIENT: Yeah, certainly.
COUNSELOR: Because it was so painful, all that that happened.
CLIENT: Oh, I might, I'll feel pain again I'm sure, but . . . No, I don't ever want to hate myself. [0:17:37.4] 
COUNSELOR: Is that, do you mean like you did before?
CLIENT: Yeah. Like maybe I still do, but. . . And, you know, I think that one of the problems I've had in this case was that, is that I've never been able to forgive myself for the way I've behaved. Well, actually I didn't behave so badly, it's just little things I think I did. I didn't do anything rash like call him up or . . . Well, I think one time when I was jealous, once I asked him what was his idea of a real woman or what was his idea of a sexy woman. And oh, that was, when I just think about it is so . . .
COUNSELOR: Humiliating? [0:18:29.2] 
CLIENT: To debase myself to him that way, to express doubt, it must have made him feel that, you know, she's really nothing. 
COUNSELOR: Whatever it was that you said though, to him. 
CLIENT: Yeah, expressed doubt or asked him what he thought a woman should be. And see, if I see him talking to another woman or friendly, I think that he's comparing her to me when actually my mother says is really, people don't really make those many comparisons because they really aren't thinking about people that much. But I think one of the problems in this case with him is that I can't forgive myself for the way I behaved. I just . . . 
COUNSELOR: Because you're still sort of  - 
CLIENT: I'm still ashamed of it.
COUNSELOR: - ashamed of it, yeah. Really ashamed of the way you exposed yourself to him. [0:19:26.1] 
CLIENT: Yeah, I really am. But I'm trying not to be. I suppose because I still care what he thinks, and I shouldn't do that.
COUNSELOR: You mean if you didn't care what he thought then you wouldn't care what you said to him?
CLIENT: Oh, that's a good question. Yes, I would care because he still knows. But no, I don't think I'd care as much I think. I'm ashamed for myself. I'm ashamed for my, I'm ashamed to know it myself. It's bad enough that I know that I did this and it's worse having him know it.
COUNSELOR: So there're two parts to it.
CLIENT: Yeah. But perhaps as I get away from the problem, as time passes I'll care less and maybe I won't, maybe I won't be so ashamed that I did it. [0:20:28.4] 
COUNSELOR: But the part now for yourself, you're ashamed just that you would what, lose your pride or what . . . ?
CLIENT: Yeah, lost my pride. It revealed self-doubt.
COUNSELOR: It's showing (ph) that you don't think much of yourself. 
CLIENT: Well, you know, that's the thing about this woman. You know, mom and I were talking about this, and I was thinking that talking of the possibility of sort of staying away from, dropping people with whom I've made the wrong start. Now certainly, this woman patronizes me because I haven't been the most confident person. After all, she met me six years ago when I was much worse than I am now. And I think I've given people who are bent that way, who lean toward that way, a chance to make potshots at me and to - you know, anybody that I would know that gets pleasure from torturing someone else would certainly find me a good target. [0:21:46.9] 
COUNSELOR: Because you're easy to do that to.
CLIENT: Yeah, I'm easy to do that to, so I would rather, people that I've gotten the wrong start with I'd like to drop and just keep my other friends and make new friends and just wipe that part of my life out. Now some people are going to be around, like next year like this guy and maybe a couple of other people. 
COUNSELOR: What you'd like to do is make a fresh start and give people new and different impressions of you. 
CLIENT: I know a lot of people that don't patronize me because either they don't know too well or didn't reveal that side of me.
COUNSELOR: That's what you want to get rid of is being patronized.
CLIENT: Because I do, I am guilty of showing self-pity sometimes to people.
COUNSELOR: Showing that you feel sorry for yourself?
CLIENT: Yeah, yeah, with people who I know well, not everybody but some people that I knew well. 
COUNSELOR: When you say guilty, are you saying that you feel ashamed or that gets you into trouble with things? [0:23:10.3] 
CLIENT: Well, guilty because I think it burdens them because it makes them feel uncomfortable. Or guilty doing it to myself. I don't know, guilty.
COUNSELOR: Burdens the people that you're with and . . .
CLIENT: Well, not that much, just, well, I lose - well, I don't respect myself after I do it. Mostly it's damage to me. Like I was thinking the other day, why should I be so ashamed of the way I behaved with him because I really hurt myself and I didn't really hurt him.
COUNSELOR: So what you're saying is why should I be so concerned about what he thinks of what I do to him when it's really what I did to myself. 
CLIENT: Yeah. Because what he thinks of me doesn't really matter. It has nothing to do with my health or food or job, just the opinion of one person. [0:24:14.4] 
COUNSELOR: So it doesn't count for everything, doesn't count for all that much.
CLIENT: No, I don't think it does, only in the sense that it, it only counts insofar as it affects me.
COUNSELOR: Counts so far as it brings you down.
CLIENT: For what all that means, that's what I've been thinking about.
COUNSELOR: Kind of going over all that in your mind, about being ashamed or . . . 
CLIENT: But mostly I've been just trying to convince myself that, you know, I'm as good as anybody else. But I think I told you a couple of weeks ago that perhaps I have more confidence than I have thought. If I can feel that, I can be independent because, well, I don't know. I wonder about other women sometimes. Sometimes I wonder when they're interested in men why are they so dependent on what their boyfriends think.
COUNSELOR: So what you were saying is that if you felt that you were from the inside really independent that would really do something good for your confidence.
CLIENT: Yeah. [0:26:03.1] 
COUNSELOR: Because part of not having confidence is feeling like too dependent on men.
CLIENT: You know, there's another problem, but I don't, I didn't want to bring it up because it really deals with another person. Well, you know, this guy  - 
COUNSELOR: Wait, why didn't you want to bring it up?
CLIENT: Well, because I don't think you'd know the answer because you don't . . . Well, this man, this guy was not very friendly to me during the last few weeks. And I don't know if it's because - well, I thought that maybe if a man knows a woman has been interested in him, he doesn't feel the same way, and  - 
COUNSELOR: This is the same guy? [0:27:21.3] 
CLIENT: Yeah, and she has revealed sort of a dependence, that maybe her presence becomes a prison. And maybe he thought that I would chase him or my presence was uncomfortable. Or, it could have been because of the few times, you know. 
I didn't tell you, but during the year, occasionally, he will ask me if he can come over. And I'll always either - well, he won't come to me expressly to ask me, but if I happen to see him, he'll, you know, he'll ask me to, and I'll just sort of toss it off as a joke because the last three months I've really been behaving casually. And I thought that maybe that was a blow to his ego. 
Sometimes men, they're not interested in a woman, but they want her to be interested in him. And I thought well, maybe he felt that he was rejected by me. Not that he was hurt, but it was a blow to his ego. And I thought it could be one thing or the other.
COUNSELOR: Either, you mean he's not being very friendly to you?
CLIENT: Sometimes, but  - 
COUNSELOR: But it's like you're wondering what's causing that, what's that from.
CLIENT: He was friendly but most of the time not friendly, maybe occasionally. And first I thought it was hatred, but then he would really, then one day he would be very friendly and ask to see me. Well, maybe the day before I thought that he hated me and I said well, if he hated me he wouldn't talk to me at all. So it's really hard to figure. 
He would come out with this, and then the following day he would be unfriendly. Unless, maybe I'm just over interpreting, maybe he's not the friendly sort. Maybe he's just in a mood. Maybe he was just in a mood, you see. But like I said, you wouldn't know that. [0:29:38.0] 
COUNSELOR: No, but I don't know what goes on in his mind. But it sounds like it leaves you confused or something, or worried.
CLIENT: No. Well, I was just surprised. It doesn't really bother me.
COUNSELOR: You were puzzled by, yeah.
CLIENT: Yeah.
COUNSELOR: You were puzzled. What would it mean if you could figure that out, why he was acting that way?
CLIENT: Well, if his ego was hurt, it would certainly make me feel better than if he thought I was chasing him, which I haven't done anything overt.
COUNSELOR: You'd really like to give him the impression that you don't care about him.
CLIENT: Yeah.
COUNSELOR: You'd really like to hurt his ego.
CLIENT: Yes, I would. Maybe that's, that would (inaudible at [0:30:35.8]). 
COUNSELOR: I guess you say it sure doesn't sound, but I sure feel that way.
CLIENT: Yes, I feel, I was hoping that that was it.
COUNSELOR: You really like it if you'd made him feel bad.
CLIENT: Yeah. The other thing - well, that's something I can't help. If he feels that way, feels that, if he's uncomfortable, if my presence makes him uncomfortable.
COUNSELOR: Then what?
 CLIENT: But then why was it just the last few weeks? Well, I don't know. He's never been that (inaudible). It's hard to say. He's a moody person. Moody people are friendly sometimes; sometimes they're not. But I could certainly understand his hating me if he, if I was an embarrassment to him.
COUNSELOR: And that's what you would like not to be happening. [0:31:33.8] 
CLIENT: No, I wouldn't like it but I can't help it if that's the case.
COUNSELOR: If that's how he feels, you can't do anything about that.
CLIENT: No.
COUNSELOR: But you'd like to be the one who's being, you know, putting him down rather than him being the one who's hating you.
CLIENT: Yeah. Of course, I have had a chance to do this. Whether it hurt his feelings or not I don't know.
COUNSELOR: You have had a chance to . . .
CLIENT: Well, I said I've had a chance to turn him down or to reject him. You know, naturally I would do that because I know that he's not interested in me because of, well, because of the way it's done and said. 
There was one time that I was going to go for a drink with him and he, you know, he ran off. He left after. We had a teachers meeting and he ran off after, and I knew it. And I says well, he must have been trying to get a reaction, so - this was on a Friday. So the following Monday I didn't say anything about it, didn't say a word. Whereas before - I thought perhaps he expected me to come in oh, why did you do that, I don't think that's very nice. [0:32:53.5] 
COUNSELOR: And you thought I will not give him what he wants.
CLIENT: And I will not do that. And I didn't do it. So, Tuesday, he said oh, you know, I had to stop somewhere and I didn't see you Friday. Well, I knew better than that. And I thought wow, you know, why would he even try and insult my intelligence by, you know, why if you're going to do, if you're going to be dishonest, why make it worse by trying to explain it with another lie? I just thought it was so absurd. But I think  - 
COUNSELOR: So you could laugh at that. 
CLIENT: Yes, well, I do think that he has tried to manipulate me emotionally. In fact, I think that's what was happening, you know, at the very beginning.
COUNSELOR: So it would really please you not to have that happen to you, be free of that, to not be manipulable. [0:33:45.3] 
CLIENT: But I was thinking how could he still think me a fool after all of this, after I - I haven't reacted to anything he's done or said since. And at the same time I haven't been unfriendly so that he could think that I was (inaudible).
COUNSELOR: So you haven't done anything that would lead him . . .
CLIENT: Doesn't seem like it.
COUNSELOR: So how could he still think you a fool?
CLIENT: If he does . . . But I think I'm going to stop pondering all of that and stop  - 
COUNSELOR: Aren't you getting tired of that, you mean?
CLIENT: Well, yeah, because all of it, all, the whole, what I'm doing is worrying about what he thinks. That's what it's all boiling down to and I just want to, you know, just forget about what he thinks and stop pondering those questions trying to guess what he's thinking. [0:34:44.6] 
COUNSELOR: You'd like to  - 
CLIENT: I think I'd be better off because it's not important. It seems trivial.
COUNSELOR: And looking at it now, it seems trivial to waste, because it seems like wasting time thinking about how he thinks about me.
CLIENT: Yeah, don't you?
COUNSELOR: Well, I don't know.
CLIENT: You don't answer questions.
COUNSELOR: I don't answer questions.
CLIENT: Well, I think it is. I certainly think they're more important. I think I should be thinking about me.
COUNSELOR: That's what you want to concentrate on is yourself.
CLIENT: Well, not in a selfish way. 
COUNSELOR: Not in a selfish way but in a tension way, I guess.
CLIENT: Yeah, enough to straighten my problems out. Well, even in this sense, if I'm going to worry about somebody else and lose weight, I'm not thinking about myself. I mean I - some people say you know who's number one is yourself, and I think that's true. And then I think you feel better about other people if you like yourself. [0:35:53.2] 
COUNSELOR: So tell me about shifting an emphasis of what you're concentrating on to yourself.
COUNSELOR: Actually, when you have problems, you're thinking about yourself. You're being self-centered when you worry about how people think about you. But - it's being self-centered, but I think the other way of being self-centered is more constructive of thinking of doing good things for yourself not - I mean there's one type of self-centered and there's another type of self-centered.
COUNSELOR: You're saying I want to change from one to the second kind.
CLIENT: Yeah, the kind where you're looking after your own interests and . . .
COUNSELOR: Taking care of yourself.
CLIENT: . . . taking care of yourself and liking yourself and liking what your problems are. And then, then maybe then you can forget about how other people think about you and maybe you can concentrate on other people. 
COUNSELOR: In the end, maybe it will make you be able to concentrate on other people in a different way, too. [0:36:56.1] 
CLIENT: Yeah, if you're not worried about what impression you're making on them, sure you can enjoy them.
I wonder how much of all this I believe. Well, I believe it.
COUNSELOR: But some of it you don't believe. Are you just talk?
CLIENT: I think I believe most of what I'm saying. I think so.
COUNSELOR: But you're saying is it a speech? Am I just saying that or do I really believe it? [0:37:58.1] 
CLIENT: No, I don't . . . yeah.
COUNSELOR: It feels like you believe most of it.
CLIENT: I do. Well, I don't know. When I say I don't believe it, I think I mostly mean in the sense that I don't know if many people really reach that. I don't know how independent most people are. I mean, I don't suppose there's anybody that's really that independent. 
COUNSELOR: Are you feeling like maybe you're more independent than other people?
CLIENT: I don't know. I don't know if I'm less independent or more or about the same. Maybe I'm reaching for something that, you know, can't be. But it's  - 
COUNSELOR: You mean  - 
CLIENT: Well, in some ways, yes, for example, I don't have a roommate and I don't want one and I don't feel the need. Well, most people I talk to say they need a roommate. Does that make me independent or selfish? [0:39:04.1] 
COUNSELOR: What does that mean? Is it good?
CLIENT: Maybe I'm just selfish and I don't want to live with anybody.
COUNSELOR: Is that part of it? Does that feel true when you say it?
CLIENT: Yeah. I think I want to throw my junk around where I feel like. I don't want to share. I like people, you know, but I like privacy, too.
COUNSELOR: You like being by yourself and arranging things the way you want them.
CLIENT: And it doesn't make any difference to me if I go to a restaurant or a movie alone or sometimes I'm with people, but I don't hesitate to go alone if it's something I want to do. And a lot of people won't. [0:39:53.5] 
COUNSELOR: You'll go by yourself whereas  - 
CLIENT: I will.
COUNSELOR: - a lot of other people can't do that.
CLIENT: I will. I know there are a lot of other people that will, but I know a lot of people that won't.
COUNSELOR: Are these like things you're talking about living alone and going places alone, these are like signs to you that you are independent of that.
CLIENT: Yeah. And . . . well, you know, and sort of like habits. Well, for example, I had a - I know you have to stop.
COUNSELOR: No, we have, remember I told you we'll go 10 more minutes.
CLIENT: I have a friend who liked to go the symphony. He was a man, but he was just a friend. And we used to go to the symphony. And one day he came - (laughs) - no, really, the symphony is very . . . it's just something I do. I don't worry about who does it. I just don't, I absolutely don't care. [0:40:58.3] 
COUNSELOR: You just want to go for the music.
CLIENT: Yeah, he brought these brochures to school, and he says, I'm going to pass these around and see how many people want to go. And I said, you want to see - I said, people don't ask you to go bowling, they don't ask you to play, why are you going to - did I tell you about this before?
COUNSELOR: No.
CLIENT: Why are you pushing people to go to the - you're just going to become an agent, you know, cultural ambassador for the school.
COUNSELOR: It seemed a little ridiculous to you. 
CLIENT: Well, I could see this with students, but I can't see it with adults.
COUNSELOR: But with teachers?
CLIENT: I can see saying to someone would you like to go to the symphony, would you like to get tickets for this or that, and the person says yes or no. But I can't see passing out brochures and saying oh, we should go to the symphony. 
It's so beautiful because I feel that people are doing what they want to do by the time they're in their late 20s or 30s. Occasionally, there's a person who's been meaning to do it and he says oh, well, thanks for reminding me of that, I'll go. But I usually feel that people pretty much do what they want to do and it just seems ridiculous to try to get a group of 10 or 20 people to go out for the evening because I don't like going out with crowds. 
And so he really got mad and he told me that I was a snob and that I think classical music is for the elite, which is absolutely not true. I think it's for anybody who likes it, and I certainly, I'm not elite at all because most of the people that go to the, that come down there, that ones that support it are pretty wealthy. I'm not one of them. [0:42:50.1] 
But - I just felt that he wasn't as dependent because he needed to drag all of these people along. 
COUNSELOR: And it made you feel, yeah.
CLIENT: And try to persuade them to . . .
COUNSELOR: You kind of looked down on that and felt good in comparison.
CLIENT: Yeah, maybe my attitude is wrong. I'm sure he - it's a nice gesture to show this kind of friendship.
COUNSELOR: It's a nice gesture, but it struck you as showing something about him if he couldn't go alone.
CLIENT: Yeah, that he couldn't go with two or three people or, usually we needed, usually there were three or four people to go anywhere. But why this gang, I didn't know. I just . . . (laughs.) Or maybe he wanted to show people that he was cultured or something.
COUNSELOR: But you felt I wouldn't need to do that.
CLIENT: But see, well, the thing is what happens in these instances is that there are people who've been either/or. They'll go to the symphony or they won't go. They don't care that much. And what they expect you to do is to get them a ticket or . . . and we got into this bad where people were saying oh, well, let me know when something's coming, as if I'm supposed to look in the paper and let, and pass the word around. And I feel that if people want to do something, they can look, they can look in the paper themselves.
COUNSELOR: You didn't feel like being the ambassador. [0:44:25.7] 
CLIENT: No, or . . . I have done it. I have mentioned people that some artist was coming or that when I went downtown I would get a ticket for them.
COUNSELOR: Why they can't do that themselves?
CLIENT: But I wonder why can't they do it because people do things independent of me and I respect them. If I want to go bowling with that group, I'll go even though I'm not very good at it so I don't go. And if they'll ask me and I'll say no, but they don't pester me about it.
That's an example. I don't know if that's really, but that's an external thing, kind of trivial to me.
COUNSELOR: It feels trivial when you talk about it?
CLIENT: Yeah. I suppose real independence is feeling that you, you're as important as anybody else.
COUNSELOR: Feel an equal.
CLIENT: Inside, equal, right. Because I've met plenty of people who perhaps even, perhaps haven't finished high school and they feel that they're as good as I am. They don't feel because  - 
COUNSELOR: So you're saying it doesn't  - 
CLIENT: - because I'm a college graduate that I'm better than they are. [0:45:49.3] 
COUNSELOR: So are you saying it doesn't depend on external things?
CLIENT: No, education.
COUNSELOR: It's somehow the way you feel about (inaudible).
CLIENT: Yeah. These are people that have confidence, and other people with masters degrees who don't have as much. But I was talking about this to a friend once, and we said sometimes ignorance is bliss. For example, if you're very ignorant, you don't know what there is to accomplish in life. So you really don't have any idea of what you don't know.
COUNSELOR: I think you were equal without knowing . . .
CLIENT: Well, they're equal in the sense that they're human beings and they're certain worthwhile, but one time there was an arrogance there that . . .
COUNSELOR: It bothers you.
CLIENT: Well, maybe they don't care about accomplishments. I'm not sure if confidence should be built on accomplishments, but I think very often some people are confident because they don't know . . .
COUNSELOR: Enough to be unconfident?
CLIENT: No. (Laughs.) I think I remember talking to you about this before. [0:47:02.3] 
COUNSELOR: I remember the area, but I don't remember the exact thing.
CLIENT: Well, we've mentioned that this concert pianist seemed like . . .
COUNSELOR: Oh, I remember that, yeah, concert pianist. What I remember about him was he seemed in some ways confident and in some ways not.
CLIENT: Yeah, yeah. And we decided that he felt that he could play the piano but perhaps he was uncomfortable with people. 
But no, a friend of mine made the observation once that it was the less-endowed people on the faculty that felt, that seemed to carry themselves with more, like a know it all attitude. And we got into this thing about well, maybe, you know, they just don't know that, you know, that there's, there are people to look up to. [0:48:02.9] 
COUNSELOR: It seemed pretty funny to you.
CLIENT: Yeah, pretty funny. It seems funny sometimes.
COUNSELOR: But I guess, is one that you're saying maybe, you know, I could be confident if I were a little stupider, but I'm not.
CLIENT: No, I don't mean that because . . . in a way, yes. Well, there's a different kind of confidence. There's the kind of confidence I think that you, I am a human being, and I have accomplished so much, no matter what it is, even if it's a grammar school diploma, but I am me, I'm important and I'm on this, you know, I'm on earth, I'm in this world and I have a place. That kind of confidence everybody should have. [0:48:58.9] 
But I think some people are really arrogant as if they're really, because they're a teacher or because they have a degree that they really accomplished a lot. This is what I find laughable.
COUNSELOR: Oh, I see. There's like something special about them.
CLIENT: Yeah.
COUNSELOR: They're really important because they're a teacher or they've done something.
CLIENT: Yeah. And, you know, like they haven't read a book since college. This is what I'm talking about.
COUNSELOR: But they've done one or two things.
CLIENT: Yeah, just nothing, and then they feel better about themselves in every way than some really, people that I look up to, some people that I look up to I think have accomplished a lot, don't feel as well accomplished or as well read.
COUNSELOR: So how people feel about themselves don't always go with what they're really like, their real accomplishments. [0:49:58.7] 
CLIENT: I know. And some people, there are some people who are very confident of themselves and they have poor characters. They're not honest. They're gossips. They hurt people's feelings. I wouldn't feel very good about myself if I were that kind of person.
COUNSELOR: We're going to have to stop.
CLIENT: Okay. Let's see. Can I see you in two weeks?
COUNSELOR: Sure, I'll see you in two weeks.
CLIENT: Okay, and that's, could you tell me how to spell your last name?
END TRANSCRIPT
