Transcript of Audio File:
______________________________________________________________________________
BEGIN TRANSCRIPT:
THERAPIST: Hi, come on in.
CLIENT: Hello, sorry I'm late; don't want to talk about it.
THERAPIST: Come on in.
CLIENT: Yeah. Excuse me while I catch my breath.
THERAPIST: Sure.
CLIENT: Yeah, everything is going good. Kind of had a blow up with my girlfriend on Sunday. It was her (inaudible at 00:34) this weekend. And we went over to her aunt's house. And I don't know if I mentioned before, but my girlfriend and my... and her mother don't really get along too well. They kind of have... they have issues. Her mother has Lupus, another one of her mother's sisters has Lupus. And then her aunt... her other aunt is bipolar and there's another aunt that's an alcoholic.
So it's kind of a... it's kind of an awkward situation because my girlfriend and her brother don't really see eye to eye with their mother. The cousins don't see that... my girlfriend's mother has three sisters. So her... my girlfriend and her brother, don't see eye to eye with her, with their mother. Her cousins don't see eye to eye with their mother, the one who is bipolar. The other one, who has Lupus, she has three children. One son is always there, the other two want nothing to do with their mother. And then the final one, who's an alcoholic, her two daughters are there.
But her... her oldest daughter is divorced, took over her house, lives upstairs. The mom and the... the dad are downstairs. And she lives upstairs with her two kids. And she's still kind of seeing her ex-husband whom she broke up with him because he was an alcoholic. So to make a long story short, we get to this party, to this celebration and dinner and everything. And my girlfriend has been on and she just starts drinking red wine. And to me I was fine and all, I just - I... I was okay with it. I had a couple beers. But to me, I start to you know - because we were there, we were there for a couple hours. But my girlfriend had close to a bottle of wine. And I could see the glossy eyes on her. I could see her starting to slur her words a little bit. And I could see her just getting really intoxicated.
And when we get in the car, I don't know what it was, it was time to leave, I just snap. Because whenever she puts herself in awkward situations where... she doesn't really interact well with her family. They constantly put a lot of anxiety to her. And they... they... they irritate her a lot, she gets really pissed off. She just, along with her cousins, just turns to alcohol. And to me, before I thought that was cool, "Yeah, whatever, when we were young enough." But the more and more we're together, the more and more I've been with her, and the more and more I care about her, I don't want to babysit. Because she gets to the point where she gets so intoxicated, I get scared. Because I found her one day in bed, when I came home from whatever it was, she was drinking wine. And it was like her eyes were ready to pop out of her sockets. And she was not coherent at all. She just really scared the shit out of me.
And then there was a time where she was really intoxicated. I got her out of the car, and I left her and just said, "Can you stay there for a second?" She was like, "Yep." So I leaned her on the car, and went to turn and shut the door, and she fell flat on her head and hit her head on the ground. And then I got really concerned that night because when she hit her head, she was extremely intoxicated, kept saying her head hurt. And I didn't know whether to take her to a hospital or not because I didn't know if she had a concussion. But I also know she was extremely intoxicated.
So I guess that part of me, the protective part of me, gets irritated when she goes too far. And it's only with certain drinks. It's only with red wine where she just takes it too far. She drinks way too much of it and she can't control herself. And there's times where in the summertime, she drinks ShipYard Summer Ale which is their summer beer, where she just loves something and can't stop. And we kind of used to joke before, but kind of not is like... I told her like, "You can't have Ship Yard Summer anymore. You can have one or two, but that's it."
Because when she gets really awkward and gets really in uncomfortable positions, she does what I used to do. I used to cope with drugs. She copes with alcohol. And to me I just - I don't know what it is, I get really irritable... irritated. And it pisses me off because I don't like being that person that babysits her. Because she is that person who when I was smoking marijuana everyday, was telling me that I was a child and I need to grow the F-up. And here she is we're at a party doing all this, and she's getting so intoxicated she's blacking out. And when I call her out on it and say, "You need to grow the F-up and do this." She starts breaking down and crying and thinks I'm attacking her.
And to me, it makes me feel very, very bad. Because I'm not attacking her, I'm not - I don't intend to hurt her in any way. I don't mean to hurt her in any way. I mean, the way it comes out, "Yeah, I'm irritated because it's just - I don't want to have to carry you down. And when you're walking you look like you're going to fall and I got to hold you up." And this that and the other thing. "I don't want to do that after two hours of visiting your family." To me, that's not fun. I can stand your family, I can stand everything that is going on fine. But the part that irritates me is coming home is when... that I have to deal with a... a heavily intoxicated person. And that's the type of person where, back when I was younger, even with my friends you can ask them, if they got ever intoxicated like that and we were out, I'd leave them. You can't control yourself, I don't want... I don't want nothing to do with you.
And with her it's different because she is my responsibility. I do love her unconditionally, but we have these episodes. And then she goes, "I'm working so hard," because she's seeing her therapist and working on her problems. And she goes, "I'm working so hard, and you never praise me." And to me that was very hurtful when she told that I never praised her. But what I did was I did praise her. I have been praising her. I have been letting her know what a good job she's been doing and how proud of her I am that she's actually sticking with the program and trying to work things out. I know it's more difficult because of her work schedule. Well, she travels a lot more than I do where she can't get as much treatment as I'm getting. But she's still getting the treatment. And it's just when I... when I have this conversation with her about bringing up to her person about talking about what makes you uncomfortable at these parties, talking about the... the... the uncomfortableness that causes you to drink so much. She kind of gets defensive. She'll open up - I hope she opens up to it. But she just won't - and I'm just like... she's like, "Well, then we won't go to these things." I'm like, "I'm not saying that. I'm not saying we're not going to go and hang out with your family. When I - I don't want to do that to you. But what I do want is I want us to find a way to start having other solutions to prevent you from drinking so much at these family events."
Because between her and her brother - I mean, her brother last year was playing a drinking game at Thanksgiving. I didn't, I was (inaudible at 9:13) with my girlfriend. But he told us, he goes... him and his wife were playing a drinking game for whenever something that usually happens in the family drama happens. And the next thing you know the both of them were plastered. And I'm just like, "Come on." And it's like the whole family. It's just like whenever there's a get-together, there's people drinking before people get there. There's people drinking before... while they're there and they're drinking after everybody leaves.
And to me it's just very - I mean, it's not uncomfortable to me. But because I can say no, I can - I have the strength to be like, "I don't need that anymore, I'm all set." But her, she doesn't really have that strength. She doesn't really have that willpower. Because there's just too much nonsense going on at once. And she's just overwhelmed that she just shuts down and drinks and just hopes everything goes away. But I get pissed off with it because I kind of... it's kind of like me where I want her to face her problem. I want her to look it in the eye and figure out how she's going to find a way to solve it instead of just covering up her problem and drinking all the... the booze and... and just be... being an intoxicated mess. I mean, it... it really does piss me off. And I don't know what it is. It seems like - I don't know.
I guess she feels like she has to cover it. Because earlier in the day, we're going to her aunt's house, her mother's sister. But her mother didn't end up going which we didn't understand why. She ended up going with her boyfriend to his family's house. Who my girlfriend and her... her mother's boyfriend, they don't get along. They actually found out that he was bankrupt. He was heavily into drugs. He's constantly been arrested for drugs. And he's in small-claims court all the time. And they brought this, her brother... my girlfriend and her brother, brought this attention to my mother about their concerns because they paid to have a PI run a background on him and all this stuff. And then they presented it. And I guess their mother still thought... acknowledged it, but also because of her Lupus disease, doesn't recognize it. So she ultimately chose to stay with her... the boyfriend. Which is - it's her choice, but I don't think that my girlfriend or her brother are over this decision.
And to me, instead of dealing with their mother and talking to her because they feel like they can't, they just drink. And it's only like certain things, like if... if we go to - I mean, again it happened last year at Thanksgiving where we had to leave before it really got bad. But it's just like whenever she's around her cousins - and it's funny because it's all the moms and the dads will sit on one side and all the cousins will sit over here. And all the cousins will get smashed, talking about how fed-up their parents are. (inaudible at 12:42) And it's... it's... and it is frustrating because I don't really like that environment for her. Because she is... she... they're all the same. They all have that jean where the common dominator in that family is nobody likes their mothers.
And to me that's sad because I'm not... I'm not from a... a household like that. I mean, I guess in a way I am. I'm not - I... I don't know. Because my mother never hated her mother, and my dad never hated his mother. I don't hate my mother. But I go and get involved in this family and three out of the four daughters that have children their children hate them. And it's frustrating. It really is frustrating for me as an outsider looking in. Because ultimately I want to tell her like, "Yeah, that's fine. We won't go and hang out with them." But in a way, I can't. Because I do know the difficulty in saying no to family, and not working with family, and being able to see your family. I mean, it all comes back to me and the restaurant. I mean, I wish I could just shut it down and not go there anymore and not think about it. But as I'm... as I quit and as I'm just sitting at home on Thursdays and Fridays sitting there pondering, doing my homework and all this that and the other thing. Watching my bills go this way and have nothing coming in. It is going to my head of, "I have a job there waiting for me, why am I not taking it? I can work if I want. I can, it's there. I just have to make the call." [14:39]
THERAPIST: But that's not the only job you can get.
CLIENT: No, I know that. But for right now in my head, I think it is.
THERAPIST: Yeah, I mean, that's why I guess I'm bringing out.
CLIENT: Uh-huh.
THERAPIST: I know you know that, so I guess one question is what's the... why... why the difference between what you know and what you feel? [14:55]
CLIENT: I don't know. I wish I knew. Because I'm kind of feeling that guilt again. Because I - yesterday when I came home from school - and I was at my parent's house last night. And my mother is talking to my aunt, who owns the restaurant. And she's talking about how she can't do this, she can't do that. Telling me how they don't have the staff anybody anymore. Everybody wants these days off, this day off, they can't work. This that and the other thing. And part of me is saying, "Good, I'm glad they're finally getting this." And the other part is saying, "Well, I mean, I should work, why don't I go work?" And I'm... I'm kind of getting torn because my aunt has to have surgery at the end of the month for her knee because she can't walk anymore. And that's the guilt that's coming in is because I am around, I am available. Why am I not... why am I not working? And then when I talked with my sister, she's like, "You're doing the right thing." And talking to my girlfriend, "You're doing the right thing. You need to end that relationship, not... not on a personal level, but on a working level." [16:22]
THERAPIST: Do you feel like you're looking to them for validation?
CLIENT: To my girlfriend and my sister?
THERAPIST: Yeah. Like with them saying it's the right thing, do you feel like you need to hear that?
CLIENT: No, I don't. Because I know in my head it's the right thing. But again, the emotion part is eating me. It's eating at me where I don't like to see them. It's kind of in a way, I could - my old job in insurance, Okay? That company burned to the ground and they bailed and everybody quit and did all that. I could have no problem with that. But me having emotional and a family relationship to the restaurant, I want them to fail, but I don't. Because knowing if I could help prevent them from failing, I want to in my mind and in my heart. But physically and mentally, I don't want to be involved in it. I've just been through way too much there.
And I just think until me, my cousin, my uncle, my aunt can sit down and have a conversation and get over the past. Like I mentioned before, I still don't believe that they're over my past there which I can't blame them for. But you can't tell me that it's over it and done with when you're still treating me like I'm still drug addict who is stealing and doing all this stuff, but I never did. I was only using on their... on their premises during work to... to cope with my issues to... to -
Kind of like my girlfriend. I used to do it to block out everything about them. Kind of like how she does the alcohol with her mother and dealing with it, and dealing with the situation. When I was working at the restaurant, I was... I was snorting cocaine. I was needing four and five and six and seven and eight and nine and ten Vicodins a day, just to... to get over the fact that I enjoyed being high there. And I... kind of zoned me out from everything that was going on from the chaos. Same with the cocaine. It kind of... when it got hectic and crazy, I just snorted a lot of cocaine. And it kind of comforted me. I felt that comfort, I felt that relaxation. When I was doing it looking back on it, I don't - I... I'm not proud of what I did. But I do know the reality of why I did it. It's because I was hurt. I was being... I was just being picked on and I couldn't take it anymore. And I couldn't turn to anybody there because I know no one would listen to me. So I was turning to the drugs. I was turning to - because they would... they didn't... they didn't say, "Jordan, what the F are you doing? Jordan, why are you doing it like this?" This that and the other thing.
THERAPIST: They were dependable. [19:58]
CLIENT: They were dependable, exactly. They were... they were what I needed. And then I'd got in the mindset, it was like... so I couldn't work without them. I couldn't go there without them. And in a way since I've worked there sober, it's been a real, real struggle. Because when it does get tough and when I do get frustrated, I do want to turn to alcohol. I do want to turn back to drugs. I think that's why I turn to the marijuana. Was because the marijuana and like I told my... my girlfriend last... when I was doing it, it sounds like it helps me clear my mind from it. It helps relax me. And I... and I guess she didn't understand it until now a little bit. But I do have different ways of hiding my emotions, of covering up what I'm really feeling. [21:00]
THERAPIST: So it seems her drinking, it sounds like it really worried you?
CLIENT: It does.
THERAPIST: And it made you disappointed in her too?
CLIENT: It does. Because I know how serious it can get. I know because of those choices and putting yourself in those situations like the ones I was in. Accept I took it too far. I know what - I don't want to say I can see worst-case scenario coming her... worst-case scenario coming out from her. But in a way I kind of lived out her worst-case scenario where I overdosed on cocaine. And I'm lying in a hospital bed with my eyes in the back of my head, nose bleeding, and stuff like that. I kind of - I've lived it, I've witnessed it. I don't like it. And I guess that's what bothers me a lot. Is in order to avoid those situations you got to... you can be involved in them, but you got to be really tough. And I guess that is why because of these - even to this day since when I go back to the (inaudible at 22:16) and I have a horrible day, I want to turn to... to drugs. I want to turn to alcohol. But mostly I want to turn to chewing tobacco. Because chewing tobacco or just any substance is what I like to do. I don't know why.
THERAPIST: What do you think the need for it is about?
CLIENT: I don't know. Because whenever I do get overwhelmed, when I get stressed out, when I get uncomfortable, I've always turned to it. Whether it be alcohol, whether it be drugs, whether it be tobacco. That's the one thing I guess - you know how some people have high blood pressure or high sugar and all this stuff, they tend to (inaudible at 23:11) an easy solution, a quick fix?
THERAPIST: Uh-hum.
CLIENT: I think that's kind of what I look for when I get uncomfortable. When I get too emotionally riled up and too anxious when I cant' function anymore.
THERAPIST: So the fix is for you get... being riled up, that's what you're wanting to fix?
CLIENT: That's what - exactly. It's wanting to just calm down and not think about stuff. And not get engaged or... or pissed off or just calm myself down. It is - and that's kind of what it was. It's kind of like what I feel every time that I'm... I'm at the... at the restaurant. It's just - and even when I have good days, it's fine. But those one bad days, you know, that's what scares me the most is when everybody is on me, everybody is critiquing me. And I don't think I'm doing bad, that's when the anxiety kicks in. That's when the drive to do alcohol, to do drugs, to smoke a cigarette, to have a... a chew. Those are the things that get me. And I'm not saying that they... they help me. Because the more I do it, the more and more that I want more of it. So it's kind of defeating the purpose because before I was doing it as a relaxation, but now as I'm doing it I'm slowing getting re-addicted to it. And it's... it's very scary for me. Because I do - then that's the one thing I do, you know I have a concern about is becoming an addict again. [25:03]
THERAPIST: Do you feel that you're being... getting re-addicted to it now?
CLIENT: I feel like I'm leaning towards it. And it's like I said to my cousin and my uncle is like, "I'm not quitting... I was quitting for the hours and stuff. But I'm mainly quitting for myself." Because I do feel those cravings, I do feel those needs to get high trying to take over my body.
THERAPIST: Do you feel like they're coming stronger?
CLIENT: Uh-hum.
THERAPIST: Why do you think... I mean, was it around quitting? Is that when you started feeling that?
CLIENT: I think it was after I... I smoked marijuana before. And it's been three months since I've smoked. And I think maybe because it's all that chemical left my system, and because it was in there for so long, I think it's my body craving something.
THERAPIST: Yeah. [26:02]
CLIENT: It's craving the marijuana. It's craving the alcohol. It's craving you know whatever it is.
THERAPIST: What do you think that craving is about? What do you mean... what emotional needs are you craving?
CLIENT: Worth, self-worth. Being someone who is... is proud of who I am, of what I do. Having other people be proud of me for who I am, for what I do. Because I guess I really haven't' gotten it. Even as a kid, I was always a heavy kid. But I was the one who used to - family... my family used to criticize me for my weight. And criticize me for being a fat kid. And every time I go to my grandmothers, "Well, why are you eating this? Why are you feeding him this? Why are you letting him eat this? Why do you eat so much?" I guess there's just a need to fit in, a need to kind of be that perfect person just for a day. But I know that I'll never be that perfect person.
THERAPIST: So do you think that going to drugs or alcohol is a way to retreat from those feelings? So you don't have to feel them as intensely?
CLIENT: I think they mask them, yes. I do think that, yes. I do think that when I'm on... when I'm... when I was high or when I was intoxicated, I didn't really think (inaudible at 27:45) I didn't think of anything. It's kind of that way. You know how people say when you do stuff, you... you're on... when you're high or you're drunk or whatever, you feel invincible?
THERAPIST: Uh-hum.
CLIENT: That's kind of how I feel mentally. I feel like my mind is so clear. And that nothing can enter it no... no matter what people say, you know can hurt me. Because it's just like that force field, that shield, that whatever happens just bounces off and goes away. And then after that it, once the... the effect wears off, then all of a sudden, everything starts eating at me again. And it's like a vicious cycle. And it's only - and that's... this is why I do get nervous because I didn't smoke marijuana until I went back to the restaurant. I went back to the restaurant and was like, "Oh, it's only marijuana." Well, that's how it started beforehand. It started with only marijuana. Then it moved to prescription pills, then moved to cocaine, then move to whatever else. [28:56]
THERAPIST: Do you feel like you're... the drugs are also luring you because they are a way of soothing yourself?
CLIENT: In a way, yes. But you got to remember, every time I stepped into the restaurant since I started it 12 years ago, for the first 5 or 6, the only thing I know about that restaurant is drugs. That's all I know.
THERAPIST: Were you exposed to them there or - [29:28]
CLIENT: Yes. That was when I was really first exposed to cocaine and prescription pills.
THERAPIST: Who exposed you? Who was doing them?
CLIENT: Their previous - Okay. So Abe bought it from this gentleman whose family ran it. The gentleman's nephew was running it, but he was also running a huge cocaine deal. He was a dealer. He had six houses, seven houses whatever. Tons of money, living on the edge, hiding it by using the business. Well, he ended up getting caught. And he ended up spending six years in jail for distribution of cocaine. Because one of his clients got pissed off at him because he wouldn't hook him up and then ratted him out to the police. Well, he was - put it this way, he did so many drugs he was out of his mind. And then I started working there because, he came back for it from my aunt and uncle because they didn't... they just bought the business and they were looking for staff. And they were trying to help him out. And he was the one who introduced me to the hard drugs. He was the one who help introduce me to where I could find these drugs. He was the one that he... he gave me a lead, kind of like whenever because I had known this gentleman since I was a little kid.
Because my aunt and uncle used to rent the... the restaurant out in the early... late 80's, early 90's. So I had a previous relationship with this guy. I trusted him, I... I respected him. At the time I thought I did. But he was the main person. If I didn't know him before, I would have never have done what I done. But I did have that sense of trust. I did have that sense of some comfort... comfort with him, if you want to say. So, I mean, that there was there. And then going to college, I had that comfort with my friends. I had that comfort with the people around me. But I also had people who needed me. I have a guy who could get me what I needed. And I have people who will buy what I have. And that's when the vicious cycle started. That's when I just started getting over... over my head. And when I was... at first I was like, "Yeah, whatever. I'm not going to do nothing." And then all of a sudden, you got to try the product that you're... you're distributing and make sure it's okay, and make sure it's good quality. This that and the other thing. And -
THERAPIST: You got sucked into it? [32:16]
CLIENT: I did because it was a way in. I kind of was growing up, I was kind of a risk-taker. I did crazy things. I was kind of a person who liked living on the edge a little bit. And I was like, "Okay. I'll do this, I'll take whatever." And I was a... a huge risk-taker. And I guess for me I, you know like I mentioned before, I did like the attention. Because the attention that I was getting was so consuming to me, it was like... I felt so powerful. I kind of felt like someone who was in charge.
THERAPIST: Yeah, because it seems like not only attention, but people needed you.
CLIENT: They needed me and they knew who I was. People, who never met me, still knew who I was which is kind of what I liked. It was kind of that euphoria of being the President of the United States. But, "There's Jordan." Well, what... like it's just like, "Oh, they get a glimpse of me." It's just like, "Oh, wow, that's... there he is." And it's just kind of that lifestyle kind of it - I didn't choose it, I didn't want it. I kind of just fell into it. And I had everything I needed to love the business. And that's what I was doing.
And it... it was horrible because the kid that was working there was the one who use to run the drug business out of the store. Well, he was showing me all the secret compartments. Showing me, telling me that this is the best place to make deals. Because when people come back, you put it in the ice cream cone and you have them call you with the ice cream. People don't know that the drugs are in there. It was -
THERAPIST: Wow. [34:13]
CLIENT: He had it down to a science.
THERAPIST: Wow.
CLIENT: And he goes, "There's people here, you give them stuff and nobody has any idea what's going on." He said that's why he was so successful in doing it for so long. Because nobody - and that was my downfall was (inaudible at 34:29) it's not impossible. I don't give a shit. I'm here all the time, might as well make some extra money on the side. And that's exactly what I did. I mean, am I proud of it? No. In a way, do I wish I got caught? No. But I wish someone who knew what I was doing could tell me to cut the shit. And... and the repercussions of what it was leading to. But for me it was just the euphoria of being known. There were times that I'd be working 13-hour shifts and I'd be outside 6 of them. "What the hell you doing outside for 6 hours when you're supposed to be working 13?" [35:13]
THERAPIST: Did your aunt and uncle ask you?
CLIENT: No, they never could find me. And I also had the guy who was covering for me. Which didn't really help. Because it was - I was giving him a piece of the pie and it was just - it is what it is.
THERAPIST: So is your worrying about your girlfriend also a worry about yourself?
CLIENT: Yes. Absolutely it's a worry about myself. Because I... I don't want her going down the path that I have.
THERAPIST: Well, it sounds like you're the one going down the path that you have again.
CLIENT: No, I don't. And I kind of feel now that you mention it, I kind of feel like when she does this, I kind of feel like I see myself again. And it's like a splitting image of... I see her doing it and I'm observing and that's when I get engaged. That's when I get pissed off. Like, "No, you can't do that. Why are you doing this? No. This is what's going to lead to that." And for me that's a... a... a... a - it kind of is exactly what I'm feeling. Is that I am feeling this sense that that's me. That is me doing what I did to hide my problems, to cover up what I was really feeling instead of getting it out there. And that scares me. It scares me a lot.
Because before when I used to do that I either - and I told her this, I go, "This was two years ago or this was six months ago, I would have got up and left you." Like I have before. And now it's just like I want to be there, I want to be her support. I want to help her get through this. Because in a way, it's going to help me, hopefully helps me get through it. And I just want that. I want to be that support system. I want to be that person that's there for her. But also I want her to be there for me.
I do feel bad when I do get on her and express my concern. And it does feel like I'm putting her down and it does feel like I'm... I'm treating her poorly. But that's not the intent. The tone of the voice could come down. Yeah, I agree. Because it does sound like I'm yelling at her. It does sound like I'm picking on her. But the message is totally different than the delivery. The message is, "You need to look out for yourself, you need... you have a problem. You need to address it. And I'm here to help you address the problem. I'm here to hold your hand and help you move on." And that's what I hope I get from her. Is I do want her to hold my hand and help me get through it. But then again, I can't help her to.... she can't help me get from my problems if we can't get through her own.
And that's where my anger comes in is because I know she's putting in all this effort. I know she's doing all this stuff, but she's still also hiding from something. And that's kind of how I feel. Is I am, like you mentioned earlier, I am hiding from something. And I don't know what it is. And I don't know how to find it. But it does bother me that every time that something happens to me that makes me extremely anxious, makes me uncomfortable or something that makes me angry, the first thing I want to turn to is an alcoholic beverage. Or to smoke pot or not so much to do cocaine or any of those other hard drugs or chose tobacco... chew tobacco. It seems like instead of turning to someone and talking about something, I'd rather sit in a shell by myself and cope with alcohol or marijuana or tobacco and just sit there and kind of beat myself over it. [39:35]
THERAPIST: For what you're doing?
CLIENT: Uh-huh. And I - it just - I can't... I can't explain it. I'll be on... I'll be high or whatever and I'll just completely shut down and forget about everything. And then the next day, I'll feel terrible. And then I'll wake up, and that problem is still there. And it's just like, "Well, what did I really accomplish? How much longer until can I mask it?" But it definitely, since I stopped smoking marijuana, since I - it was good. I stopped smoking marijuana. And then as soon as I went back in the restaurant, that first shift, half through that shift, I craved it. I wanted it. I needed it. And I told myself, "No, you're fine. You're going to... you don't need it." And then I worked the whole next week. And then the... the urge and the... the addiction and whatever it is that was inside of me, was craving it. I needed it, and I... and I wanted it. And I wanted to so bad. And I knew where to get it, but I didn't get it.
And ever since I... I distanced myself a little bit from it, the cravings have kind of gone away. They have kind of subsided a little bit. But they come back when I... when we're in class and we talk about all these guys that are on substance abuse. And the effects of cocaine and stuff and with me and school, cocaine is a very sensitive subject. I've never told anybody, none of my classmates or my professors about it. But when they are talking about it, I do get really uncomfortable. I do get really anxious. And I kind of want them to move on to the next topic. Because I just - I can't... I can't take it. [41:40]
THERAPIST: It feels overwhelming?
CLIENT: Yes.
THERAPIST: Now, Jordan, we're going to need to -
CLIENT: Okay.
THERAPIST: - stop for today. So it's back at 3:15? Was that -
CLIENT: Yeah, 3:15 works, that's fine.
THERAPIST: Great, great. Let's do that.
CLIENT: Thank you.
THERAPIST: Okay.
CLIENT: It's just once a month?
THERAPIST: Yeah, so let's - this... this Tuesday of the month, is it -
CLIENT: It's always a Tuesday. I'll let you know usually.
THERAPIST: Okay.
CLIENT: But it's usually this is the second Tuesday... second... it's usually the second Tuesday of the month.
THERAPIST: Okay. I actually usually have someone scheduled at 4:00.
CLIENT: Okay.
THERAPIST: They are not here today, but we can... I can (inaudible at 42:14) just a heads up.
CLIENT: Yeah, I'll e-mail you and let you know. Yeah.
THERAPIST: Schedule is getting a little bit tight, but I -
CLIENT: Yeah. Okay.
THERAPIST: - will do my best to find something during that timeframe. Okay?
CLIENT: All righty. Thank you very much.
THERAPIST: I look forward to seeing you next week.
CLIENT: All right. Thank you.
THERAPIST: Bye-bye.
END TRANSCRIPT
