Transcript of Audio File:
______________________________________________________________________________
BEGIN TRANSCRIPT:
THERAPIST: So, what's been going on?
CLIENT: I had a bunch of meltdowns. By the time you called me back on whatever day it was that I called you with the appointment, I actually had taken an anti-anxiety pill. But...
THERAPIST: Did that help?
CLIENT: It did. Most of them - all but one of them had to do over something financial that led into the bigger oh my God I'm spending all this money and I don't have a job. And, you know, it's already one thing, okay like I'm getting having my rent and I pay groceries with my half. You know, it's like at most I spent $40 on all my groceries. It's probably less than that.
THERAPIST: That's very reasonable. You do not, I mean we can't get you to spend less.
CLIENT: However we've been going out to eat a lot more than I'm used to because Sydney likes going out to eat a lot. Like we finalized it, we had like this sort of discussion last night that we really needed to happen and it finally did. And so, because he, in terms of who was paying and stuff he thought like he was paying all the time and I thought that I was paying all the time. Or not that I was paying all the time but it was just, you know, I realized that he likes going out more times than me, he is sort of little resentful that the fact that we usually had to go to more expensive places than he might be used to if there was going to be a place with something that I could eat and I was like we're going out way more times than I would be wanting to. If I'm paying for half of it then that's still way more than what I'm used to. [00:02:00]
Like I am fine going out once a week. And, you know, he doesn't even think of like going out to lunches, going out to drink. I guess it's one thing if he's getting something that's like $5 and that's not much but if it's like more $10 or $15 then that is something. And like when he had a job that was less for him, a lot less for him, but I don't have a job. And so every time I go out that I have to pay, I feel like I'm spending my parent's money on something that - really I'm just like throwing away my parent's money because okay we might be getting food but like I would be fine just have puffs and cheese for lunch at my house every day. And already like Kosher cheese is like expensive but that's one of the expenses that I'm willing to...
THERAPIST: Right, well it's important to you.
CLIENT: And it's way less expensive than going out to eat.
THERAPIST: Going out to restaurants doesn't feel important to you.
CLIENT: Yes.
THERAPIST: It's a luxury not a need.
CLIENT: Exactly. And for him it's more like a need. And I guess for the other part of it was like need - so like he has enough money for whatever and - like, when he was in, when he was growing up, they hardly ever went out to eat, whereas when I was growing up we went out every Sunday night. So [it was always a scene or a] (ph) fight about where we were going for dinner but then - but he hardly ever went out. And then when he went to college he went out a lot more. And even though this money was in his college fund and way more than he needed, and his parents weren't giving him any additional money, did not need to spend anything on him at all - like his mom tried to guilt him like all the time for the fact that he was going out to eat on a regular basis and throwing away money. So it sort of triggered that for him too but I didn't know that until last night because I thought it was normal like my family went out once a week and it was like if it's money that they don't have to help you with, then why are they guilting you? [00:04:16]
And I don't care about him spending money on it and throwing away his money for something that...
THERAPIST: But he's going to go out with you...
CLIENT: If he's going to go out with me and then if I have to cover it more than I'm comfortable with then I am throwing away my parent's hard earned money. You know, and if I had a job, I would be a lot more fine with it because then I could make a budget and be like okay I have like $500 a month for food, which is a lot. But if I had a job that like paid...
THERAPIST: But you would feel like it was your decision.
CLIENT: It was my decision and then it would be a budget that I could actually fund. And right now, because Sydney is like you going to have to budget and this should be [t-scripted and valued] (ph) and then prescripted. And I'm like okay well if I do that, you know, my expenses are way more than my income. That's not actually going to help me feel calm at all. I can't think of - I can't justify having a $500 a month budget for food. It's insane for me. If I were going out for ice cream or coffee on a regular basis. But, you know, an ice cream cone, even if I'm getting you something expensive at a nice place it's like, for myself it's just...
THERAPIST: It's not a meal.
CLIENT: Yes, I feel like $6.
THERAPIST: So did you guys come to an agreement about sort of the amount of times that going out would feel comfortable? Or switching it from going out for dessert instead of a meal?
CLIENT: Well going out for dessert instead of a meal wouldn't be enough for him, though he doesn't usually go out for desserts. But we agreed to go out last night. I was okay with once a week but he wasn't. He wanted to do more than - but I think he would be okay with twice a week. [00:06:10]
THERAPIST: It would - I know it's more than you would do on your own but does it feel okay? Could it be split like you pay once, he pays once?
CLIENT: Yes, and then I mean I'm paying to go out to eat once a week which is like - I know. I'm like, you know, it's not like oh no what we get to other events on the weekend? Like could we do that multiple times a weekend? I'm like if you're going out to lunch multiple times a weekend that actually is impossible for me because one of those days is Saturday. You go out with your friends on Saturday, I'm not coming along with Ashley. But like this Sunday I'm like if you're going to - because the other thing is because he has this tension with his roommates, it isn't a safe space for him to hang out with his friends, whereas -
THERAPIST: Yes, hanging out for a weekend.
CLIENT: Yes. I hang out with my friends, I have them to my place or go to their place or something. I'm not going out with them to restaurants.
THERAPIST: Right.
CLIENT: So, I said if you want to do that, I don't really want to be paying for when it's something you do and I don't do. And he's like oh I didn't expect for you to pay for that. I'm like good because I would not want to - that seems kind of - like I understand why he does it. It's not something I could do. If I were to get together with my friends in some sort of mutual place it would be for ice cream and not for lunch. I would eat lunch at home and have my very inexpensive meal/meal I've already paid for, and go out for dessert.
THERAPIST: Well it sounds like you guys had a good talk about it.
CLIENT: Yes, it still...
THERAPIST: It's hard to talk about things like money and different habits. Those can be tense conversations.
CLIENT: Yes. Only this time I wasn't having a meltdown but like, the previous meltdowns were all like - and one of them was like something so simple as I had, I am working on the biggest upgrade now. The nice set that I got at [inaudible at 00:08:15]. I got these double blended needles and they came in a set of six different sizes and each size has six different needles. If you're working on a double blended needle project you usually use either four or five. I usually use five. So they give you that extra needle in case you break one. [00:08:41]
So I had made stuff similar to this before with this size needle. I've broken one of them actually while waiting for my date with Penis Boy my years back. [Chuckle] The other one I broke recently. And so these are nice needles and I have four needles and I can knit the sock on four needles but it's sort of driving me crazy that I don't have the full set and A, they're really nice needles so if I got other ones they would be different and B, not having full set with my OCD tendencies is bothersome. So I ordered a replacement set, or so I thought.
I should have doubled checked this and stuff but I didn't. I was like oh yes I - where are the knitting needles? I'm 2-1/2. Then my 2-1/2 size needles come and then I realized that actually no I was knitting these on 1-1/2 and just like these look odd. And so their return policy is if they make a mistake shipping for returns is free. If you make a mistake you have to pay for it. So these needles were only, the set of needles was $8. I had - oh that's the other thing because I had wanted them before I went to Israel and then I'm like after all that.
So I paid for shipping. Normally shipping if over orders of $50 is free and I had gotten these nice set of interchangeable other needles, that was way more than $50, but then I felt bad about that. I'm like what am I going to do with these needles that I actually don't need?. How am I going to get the ones that I need? I have to pay either the $8 plus shipping for that or I have to pay for shipping one-way or possibly both ways for the new needles. And I just totally melted down. [00:10:31]
THERAPIST: And do you think it's really about the amount of money for shipping or is it something else that you're melting down about?
CLIENT: It's because I made a mistake that cost me money that I -
THERAPIST: Don't feel comfortable -
CLIENT: - consider myself having, considering that I'm also very [inaudible at 00:10:46] about going out to eat that I shouldn't be spending either.
THERAPIST: So it's a lot of guilt.
CLIENT: Yes. So - and I know this so I haven't even decided what to do. Sydney is like oh well, you can order the new ones. I'm like well none of the stores around here sell them. Like they're available in one of two places. One is the online place that I bought these from and the other one is in another town, which is the yarn store in Providence and if we were to go there then I wouldn't have to pay for shipping but...
THERAPIST: They're going to be just as much.
CLIENT: Way, way, way more money on gas. So that would be a stupid idea. And it would also be a waste of a trip to Providence to only get these needles. So...
THERAPIST: I'm assuming they won't send them to you.
CLIENT: I haven't tried - when I tried customer service when I was having my meltdown, they were like please hang up and try again. We're all full. So there wasn't even a queue system.
THERAPIST: It's frustrating.
CLIENT: And I haven't tried them since. And that was Tuesday.
THERAPIST: How do you think your parents would actually feel about spending money on going out to eat, spending money on the needles? Because you're feeling very guilty about spending their money. I'm not sure. [00:12:07]
CLIENT: Spending their money on the needles they probably wouldn't care that much because they're $8 for the set of needles plus whatever $5 shipping. I don't know how they feel about if I'm like paying multiple times a week to go out to eat like how they would feel about that. I think to them - you know if I'm paying to go out to eat once a week that's fine. That's something that they always did when we were growing up but I think we were doing two to three times a week, if they knew, which they don't - they have access to my accounts but usually what I'm doing is I end up paying cash anyways. But I don't know I think they would not think it was a good idea and why would you be spending all that money that you don't have to be spending when you don't have a job? Because it's not a trivial amount. For Sydney it kind of is.
THERAPIST: Have you guys ever talked about sort of like a budget because I know they do fund some of your existence. Have they ever talked about how much, do they know how much they pay for rent, how much they pay for discretionary -
CLIENT: They know how much they pay for rent. We never talked about discretionary funds.
THERAPIST: Would that feel more secure for you to know, so if like a certain amount is okay in their minds and over that feels too much? I'm wondering if having some clear boundaries might help you to feel secure with some decisions you're making and feel guilty for what is appropriate because you may be feeling guilty about things that they might not...[00:14:07]
CLIENT: I'm just afraid that their discretionary flex budget would be like okay on your money how are your little [inaudible at 00:14:14], you shouldn't be spending more than that on like-item things.
THERAPIST: This is your voice, though. I mean you're making guesses and I'm wondering how accurate they are.
CLIENT: They're happy to support me with rent and items related to my healthcare and food, but I'm pretty sure it's food within reason and I'm pretty sure this goes beyond within reason.
THERAPIST: Going out to eat is more recreational then?
CLIENT: Yes. Than just like maybe you need to eat. So I don't know. I could ask them. I mean I see them like -
THERAPIST: Yes, you'll be traveling with them.
CLIENT: Yes, so...
THERAPIST: Do they know that you're dating someone new?
CLIENT: Oh yes, they do. Actually that helped. Like we went out [inaudible at 00:15:02] for my birthday like the night before my birthday, and that put...
THERAPIST: Yes because the other piece to this is they've always been very interested in having you date. They want you to find someone; they want you to be happy. And I'm wondering if part of going out to eat a lot, yes, he's used to that but you guys are also in a fairly new relationship and it's kind of fun going out and courting and...
CLIENT: We're already boyfriend and girlfriend. He doesn't need to impress me and it's not really impressive when I have to pay half the time and I pay way more than I would ever think of paying for food ever. And it is important to him but its' not important to me. I want him to be happy but it shouldn't have to be at the expense of my non-earned - like if we went out to eat and it were $40 and I would pay for it, if I'm paying out of the money I'm earning for [inaudible at 00:16:01], that's four hours of [inaudible at 00:16:05]. I mean when I not sick of missing all the dates like I [inaudible] five hours a week, that doesn't - if I'm doing this once a week I'm going over the amount that I'm making. [00:16:26]
So - and I don't know if it would let up even now because at this point I don't think he was trying to run but he still wants to go out all the time. And I would go out if it was a bit reasonably less that we went out and that was like a mutual decision because both - well actually I don't even think Aaron ended up making dinner last night any way but sometimes Aaron's cooking is good; a lot of the times he does really weird things that in my opinion don't taste good. I always got around this. Last semester I had my Thursday class so I wasn't eating whatever he was making anyway. And if there was something really, really tasty, I might have it as leftovers and if not I would have other leftovers or make myself pasta. So I was okay going out last night but we didn't need to go to lunch like on Tuesday and Wednesday both. So, yes.
THERAPIST: You need to find a level that you're comfortable with, whether that be because you've gotten a true idea from your parents about what they consider a reasonable amount of discretionary spending or making a firm decision for yourself. [00:18:05]
CLIENT: I can't imagine that they would be okay with daylight spending. To say less expensive places, even if I was paying to go out to eat twice a week that might get up to $400 a month of discretionary funds.
THERAPIST: And that feels like way too much to you obviously from your...
CLIENT: Way too much. If I had a job, it would be fine. But I don't so that is way too much for me and twice as much as I'd be making with my regular month [inaudible] schedule. So that's $200 a month of their money that I'd be spending. Especially because you know my parents right now - like my dad had a stroke and my mom's working at the store but not full time and so she's still collecting the difference in unemployment money that she was, between what she was getting from unemployment and what she was making at Bass. So she's getting what? She said it was $500 a week. So I guess that's like $25,000 a year with between Bass and unemployment, which is not a lot. Actually more like $28,000, do the math with me instead of my moms.
So that's not a lot of money. And my dad is making I don't know like probably high - it's definitely six figures from the store, finally, less than $220,000. And then they have the new house that they bought but has the mortgage on, and they have the old house which they haven't sold yet which they were renting out but the renting - they have finished the renting out, or they finished the mortgage on that house before they moved to the new house. They expected to be able to sell the old house. They weren't very lately renting it out and the money that they're renting it out for covers the cost of the property taxes on it. So I guess they're renting it for about $1800 a month or something and I guess that's about as much as property taxes are. [00:20:30]
So that's like - so they're still paying that new mortgage out of their own money even if they're not technically paying for it like maintaining two houses. They don't have all the money in the world to spend on all the things. So...
THERAPIST: So how did guilt turn into panic?
CLIENT: The two are related and I've felt like a failure for breaking, not breaking the little needle but ordering the wrong size when I could have prevented it and now I have to pay extra money for this mistake. So it's I don't have a job and the last month I have not done anything towards looking for a job or at least in the way of anything more than reading job ads. I have not written a single cover letter while I've been sick. And this week it was all packing for Israel and originally panicking about the fact that I had to move my stuff from one room to the other before I went to Israel. And then I talked to Aaron yesterday and he was - because no one's coming in on - like they want to redo the floors in my room since when we redid the floors on that side of the house we didn't do my room because it wasn't like I really had somewhere else that I could move my stuff to and I really didn't want to move my stuff out and move it back. [00:22:07]
So we had done Rebecca's floor before she moved in, like between people there. And the TV room and stuff. That was a two-day endeavor but I really didn't want to have to move out all my furniture and then have to move it all back in. So, my floor needs to be redone. Aaron was going to do that between when I moved out and when the new person moved in. And so we were going for having someone come into the new room [inaudible at 00:22:39]. Joan left and so we don't have someone for April 1st yet. And Joan didn't move out until Sunday and when she did, she was doing her packing on Saturday night and Sunday so she left a ton of crap and all her furniture. It was like okay you guys can do whatever you want with my furniture but that still meant we had to deal with the furniture. And so we didn't even get, the furniture didn't get disassembled and moved out until Tuesday.
And then, and also we had to clean floors. Also some of Joan's random crap is still there. We got rid of a ton of it but she left all these different things and I'm like do you want them? If you do why didn't you take them with you? If you don't, why didn't you go through and throw things out and why did you leave this for all of us? You knew when you were moving. Clearly you didn't have to wait for the last minute. Like she had a job but I'm pretty sure that last week that she was there she wasn't working. She left herself a week or so but she's spending all this time going out with her friends and stuff like that. And I'm just like oh well if you were me and I had to move that day, I would like get my stuff done so I wouldn't be doing that to the housemates. And I'm thinking wait is it everyone who moves out that does it and I'm like no. [00:24:07]
Because when Anne lived in the room and moved out it was fine. She took care of all her crap so it was really Joan and Derek who did this particularly. At least this time I didn't have to deal with all of it and [inaudible at 00:24:23] had a different options like Aaron had his friends do the heavy lifting and stuff but still, it wasn't ready to move into until Wednesday, Thursday. And Wednesday I was learning my Megillah reading and stuff and Thursday I had [inaudible at 00:24:42] and then I wanted to go to volunteering because it was like okay well, yes I'm going to Israel but I have missed the last couple of weeks for being sick and I don't want to miss another week too. So I wasn't going to have much time to move things around anyway. So luckily...
THERAPIST: So there's a lot going on at home too.
CLIENT: All this craziness and...
THERAPIST: So let's look at what's actually in your control and what's not because the things that are out of your control, the things that happened in the past, you can't do anything about them. It doesn't do you any good to feel badly about it. The needles got broken. Your thinking that you're a failure for that seems like a bit of a...
CLIENT: No I'm not feeling like a failure for breaking the needles. I'm feeling like a failure for ordering the incorrect needles when I could've double-checked it.
THERAPIST: It was a mistake.
CLIENT: It was a mistake that I didn't need to make.
THERAPIST: That's true.
CLIENT: How does...
THERAPIST: But does making a mistake make you a failure?
CLIENT: Yes when it's an expensive mistake that I didn't need to make and also I don't have a job either.
THERAPIST: You're plopping other things in. The difference is failure is so global and saying I'm a failure is very global. There are obviously lots of things that you're very successful at. This was a mistake. Yes, it was a preventable mistake. I'm not saying that you can't feel badly about a mistake but stopping yourself from labeling yourself a failure as a whole, as a person, because it's - one is discrete and one is so all-encompassing. And I think that the feelings that go along with labeling yourself as a whole are a lot more overwhelming than if you keep it tied to yes, I failed to double-check that and I made a mistake that I could've prevented. And you got a consequence. You already got the consequence. You got the consequence for having to pay for shipping or figuring out... [00:26:54]
CLIENT: Well I haven't done anything about it yet, so I don't...
THERAPIST: But I mean you're stuck with that now. And that's your consequence. You don't have to add on labeling yourself as a failure as a hold. You can't go back and undo that piece. But some of the other things you're feeling badly about you can. One of the things you're feeling badly about is not having gotten any work applications out.
CLIENT: Yes.
THERAPIST: Well that's something you can plan for. Yes, you're going away now but you'll be back and you can make a change on how you're handling that. That's still in your control.
CLIENT: Okay, well if I still like [inaudible at 00:27:33], even if I get to the point of sending out three cover letters a week again, I still think I'm - like until I have a job I'm still going to have all that guilt. And I don't know how long that will take.
THERAPIST: Yes, but -
CLIENT: It might take -
THERAPIST: - you don't know how to predict that.
CLIENT: - a long time. And at least like when Kim, she graduated in August and as of now I think she's still looking for an archivist job and so she's at her not-so-well-paid-and-they-have-no-benefits-because-they-refuse-to-let-them-be-fulltime-workers tech job at [inaudible at 00:28:11] but she's still making enough to pay all her rent and stuff like that. So she has student loans and she has to deal with them and stuff but she's sort of stuck at her sucky job until she gets a better job. But at least her sucky job pays for what she's doing. Whereas my not-well-paid-at-all-but-well-paid-for-what-I'm-actually-doing-for-it job that I only have five hours a week of is fine - [00:28:45]
THERAPIST: But not enough to cover.
CLIENT: - but it's not enough to cover my expenses. And so if I'm doing this - and also once it -
THERAPIST: You can't jump ahead to August.
CLIENT: Well not even August, I was going to jump ahead until May. Once it becomes May I won't even have that for a while because the kitchen closes down in the summer. So it's not even a full - it's not even a job that I have all year around. So, I think I can jump ahead until May because that is something I know for a fact once the school year is over, there will be no [inaudible] until the Fall in September. So...
And Sydney is all like well you're building your career and your parents would be supporting you. It's like they're watching me and it's better that you're volunteering and getting this experience. That's going to look really good on your resume than doing some random part-time job or something but I don't know if that's actually true and maybe I should find a 40-hour a week job in a field that I don't, that isn't where I feel - like I wouldn't take something that would make me miserable. If it were a corporate environment where there's lots expected of you and there's tons and tons of pressure. [00:30:20]
THERAPIST: Have you looked at other things that might be -
CLIENT: Not much yet. I mean, yes, there was the job at Joan's company that I did not take because I was like this would make me miserable. And that was probably the right decision. But that's something that - I don't know. It's something like that comes up again. Now I'm thinking because I've been feeling so guilty about not having, making money, maybe I should do that but then I wouldn't be volunteering or getting anything in my field. But what I really need is something out of the field that's half-time that I can still volunteer. But I don't know if that's something like - then I'd have to do two jobs searches that are jobs that I actually want and I job that I need to get while waiting for the job that I actually want.
THERAPIST: I'm wondering if it would make sense, I mean you mentioned about how much [inaudible at 00:31:24] will stop over the summer and summertime jobs are probably near getting posted. I wonder if it makes sense to look at if there are summer opportunities that might fill that gap. You know you have some skills in being able to do Jewish education or Hebrew or something like that that maybe a summer camp -
CLIENT: Don't you think teaching is probably less like - and then the summer camp then would be offsite and then I'd be still paying rent and - I guess I'd be getting bored there but then I'd be not in New Haven for the summer. [00:32:00]
THERAPIST: There's nothing local?
CLIENT: No. There aren't any summer camps in New Haven. I think there's Ramah in Conover but that's -
THERAPIST: Pretty far away. That's in Wisconsin.
CLIENT: It's not something I can commute to. They also hold a lot of summer camps, I don't know if there's any Jewish day camps. I can look into that but Jewish summer camps -
THERAPIST: I think the JCC in Franklin has a day camp.
CLIENT: Okay, well -
THERAPIST: Which is not, which is I mean that's a do-able commute. They have a rather large, there's a large JCC in Franklin that I heard of. I have no idea what they offer but I know they have some sort of day camp thing [inaudible at 00:32:37]. But I mean is this just - you know you mentioned - I'm trying to think of what's actually in your control to alleviate some of the burden and expanding your search to fill the summer gap might be an in-between between taking something full-time that's not in your field that would prevent you from being able to do your volunteer work and prevent you from being able to look at something else full-time versus not having anything around. This might be another alternative, something that would yes probably take you off the market for a little while but give you a short window when you're doing something out of your field rather than feeling like you've committed to something for a long time.
CLIENT: Yes, undoubtedly usually, like a lot of the academic jobs are all started in September and I'd rather work at something academic or non-profit than corporate anyway if I could help it.
THERAPIST: So maybe when you come back from Israel looking at are there summer opportunities that might, I mean and this is the first thing that popped in my head. There may be other things that come into your mind if you think about this third alternative for your job search.
CLIENT: I'm not sure what kind of things I could - and also, well I don't even know what kind of jobs or what kind of degrees they want you to have for summer camp. I feel the littler the kids probably the more professional you have to be. Like if you're taking care of babies, they're going to want people who have experience taking care of babies since babies are really, really fragile. [00:34:23]
THERAPIST: That may be true.
CLIENT: I don't want to be in charge - I'd be fine being an activities teacher like art or whatever. I don't want to be in charge of the care of tons of small children.
THERAPIST: I think - it sounds like - I would imagine that there are things other than being the camp counselor, in charge of the whole group thing. But this is something - it's look into because you have two different degrees, you have lots of life experience, and I think there's a range of things you can offer. You know, you have all your knowledge about spinning and knitting and you have your religious knowledge, you have your knowledge from library school; you have lots of things to offer. And rather than thinking about what you don't want to do and what's not in your control, thinking about what are things you can do. Where are the things - what is in your control of being able to expand yourself as, you know, in a temporary way. I mean this is not your career but it might be something that can help alleviate some of the guilt and burden that you're feeling about your spending more money than what you're able to take in right now.
And I think getting some control back over the things you can and focusing on what you can control, what you can do, will feel a lot better to you than looking at what's not - what you've not been able to do or mistakes that you've made. It just feels horrible to look at the mistakes you've made and just assume that that's everything. [00:36:19]
CLIENT: [inaudible] But I don't feel like I'm doing anything. Like currently it's not like I'm doing anything useful or right or anything that is helpful in any way. Like okay I have these degrees. But that - okay so I'm smart but smart doesn't equal anything at all useful in terms of getting me a job right now. Like right now you don't need to be smart to have a job; you need to have the right education and apparently I don't have the right education. I have the right education for things I want to do, but in terms of things that are actually around and available not so much. So okay I have this talent that doesn't matter. And I'm good at knitting but what is that going to do? Absolutely nothing either. And anything I'm good at is not solving any of my current problems. So I think I have a right to feel like a failure because, you know, with all my talents it doesn't get me anything.
THERAPIST: But what does giving your feelings - what does allowing yourself to feel like a failure get you?
CLIENT: Accuracy and/or punishing myself because I think I deserve to be punished for -
THERAPIST: Is that what you want?
CLIENT: It's not what I want but it's what I deserve and/or less capable of actual thought right now. Like, on Tuesday I was - there was a point where I was feeling like hurting myself. Obviously I knew that I wasn't going to do anything about it but I was feeling like hurting myself and I'm like, here I am. I'm like wasting all these resources of my parents and/or the universe if I'm not a productive member of society. And I am wasting society's resources by [inaudible at 00:38:33] like food and water and all that are limited, you know? And very much I'm wasting my parent's money. I'm 27 and they're still supporting me. [00:38:49]
THERAPIST: And that's precisely why I want you to step away from trying to think about what feels accurate. Even though it may feel accurate, it's not productive for you, it's not adaptive for anyone to stay in that space. I understand why you're feeling that way, but we also need to look at what does allowing yourself to stay in that space do for you and do for those around you. It doesn't help you move out of a place where you're feeling not productive.
CLIENT: Okay well feeling productive when I'm not being productive isn't going to get me anything either is it? I don't think so.
THERAPIST: It allows you to actually take some steps and move. You need to feel better in order to start taking productive steps.
CLIENT: Not necessarily. Do you think that's bad?
THERAPIST: You're really invested in being upset right now.
CLIENT: The way I usually work, though right now I guess it's like being less so, when I make an expensive or whatever mistake usually when I freak about being an idiot because I lost my wallet and I need to cancel my credit cards, first I will go and make the phone calls to cancel my credit cards. Then I will freak out about being a failure because I lost my wallet again or something. Granted now this hasn't happened in four years or three years - it's been a while since I lost my wallet or my cell phone. [00:40:27]
But feeling like a failure doesn't necessarily prevent me from doing these little things. It just - I mean right now maybe it is, but at the same time it's also just because I feel so much futility. It's like okay what's another cover letter going to get me anyways? None of these have resulted in anything and the one interview that I had I bombed. Even if it wasn't my fault I still bombed it. So it's not like I'm doing things that are so useful like canceling my credit cards. I am writing this cover letter that's going off into space and never to be seen or heard from again. That's it. So I don't really think I'm doing anything useful no matter what anyways.
Like I know statistically I have a better chance of getting a job if I apply for jobs, but when I apply for all these jobs and don't hear anything back from them, it's hard to take that statistic seriously and -
THERAPIST: It's a very frustrating process.
CLIENT: It doesn't do anything. And my parents are like oh you should talk to so-and-so. But it's like so-and-so don't have contacts in my industries and stuff and my mom's like, oh, like such-and-such does like Nestle [inaudible at 00:41:56]. Like one of the guys lives out in [inaudible at 00:41:57] Bristol but he works in Manchester. I was like oh yes you should talk to him. You know, I'll mail him your resume and he has all these contacts. And he responded back and his response was like oh yes, look at my LinkedIn profile and feel free to ask me about any of those contacts. And I'm like okay that's not actually an answer, especially if they're like okay these random people. I'm not looking for a job. I would - if I'm looking for a job outside my field because if they're all outside my field I don't know which of them are working anywhere that's hiring and I'm being here to be like oh, can you ask these people for this? Like they all - it doesn't - it isn't really a helpful answer. Like I really don't want to have to go - [00:42:52]
THERAPIST: It doesn't sound like anything would be the helpful answer.
CLIENT: Well if someone were like oh yes, I do know people at the such-and-such library and oh look they're looking for an archivist. That would be a helpful answer. Have I found that? No. I have not. It's really hard for me to try to do this thing that I am really, really uncomfortable with when it doesn't seem to be helping at all because I'm not networking with the right people. I'm networking with people - if I try to do this random networking that my parents are trying to tell me to do it with people who aren't in my industry and that's not going to help me because they're not in my industry and - yes. It all seems so stupid and stuff. [00:44:04]
Maybe [if they knew] (ph) like actual archivists and stuff that maybe but they don't. And one of the people that they did like, because I guess Dad knew someone who worked in Connecticut State Archives and so he mailed him oh do you know anyone who's getting their [inaudible at 00:44:21] in Maine and he was like oh actually no. So that was not helpful answer either. The people I know don't really have useful contacts so there's so little I can do right now other than sending these cover letters out to places that I never hear back from unless it's the generic oh yes, we have filled this spot; thank you for applying, which at least the big institutions will give me that automated form letter eventually whereas smaller institutions won't.
THERAPIST: Yes, you just don't know what happens. It's really a frustrating process. I know it is.
CLIENT: Yes, every time I send out something and then I don't it makes me more convinced that whatever I'm doing is futile because I'm not doing - I'm not getting any results. If I were getting all these job interviews and I was not doing well then at least I'd know that my cover letters were good and I had to work on my interview skills. But because I've gotten a little feedback from people - they're not people who are hiring but my friends and they're like actually yes, that cover letter looks really something. And I'm like okay if it's something then why is it not working? Clearly there is something wrong with me. And, you know, being in contact with actual human beings - [00:46:07]
THERAPIST: Clearly it's a really tough job market.
CLIENT: Yes.
THERAPIST: I mean it's not like you know tons of other people in your field that are getting lots of jobs. So it's not necessarily about you. It seems like the wrong conclusion to draw.
CLIENT: It's about me that I chose this field.
THERAPIST: Yes you chose this field that you are interested in this field.
CLIENT: I should've chose something I'm not interested in that was going to have - you know, I don't know if I would've been good at higher level math but I was very good at math in middle school or high school.
THERAPIST: You're not going to go - are you going to go back and re-specialize?
CLIENT: Not in math but maybe I could get an MBA or something. But then I'd be -
THERAPIST: Well, do you want a MBA?
CLIENT: Not particularly.
THERAPIST: Do you want to work in that field?
CLIENT: No.
THERAPIST: Then it seems a little bit unrealistic and unproductive to start beating yourself up about not choosing to go into that. If you need time to feel frustrated and angry with the futility of sending out lots of cover letters, fine. Give yourself time to feel angry and upset about that. But it really seems not productive to go back and start thinking about not going into higher level math. Beating yourself up about that.
CLIENT: Well higher level math I guess would actually be useful I guess. I don't really know like technology computer stuff, which I also -
THERAPIST: You're going back a long way to beat yourself up about that. It seems like your energy could be better spent.
CLIENT: I wish like if there were more slightly related fields I could be branching out into, then I would think about doing something but I'm not really sure.
THERAPIST: Okay, well let yourself - use your energy that you're putting towards beating yourself up toward that. Toward doing some exploration of what might be something that's branched out a little bit. Use some time, you know, if you have some time before you leave, put your energy towards that. But beating yourself up about what you find interesting and the things are going to feel good to you to work in eventually is a lot of energy directed towards nothing useful. [00:48:23]
CLIENT: Yes, I guess at this point - you know, if I hadn't gotten the second Masters then I would still have money to get a second Masters and then I could - like if I was going to be second Masters in something useful but -
THERAPIST: And it might be.
CLIENT: It might be eventually, but eventually isn't going to make me feel better now about spending all this money going out to eat that I shouldn't and I don't feel in control of that.
THERAPIST: Well, you had a conversation about that piece. You guys can meet - you're going to make some changes about how frequently you're going out. That's in your control. And the energy that you're using to convince yourself and to try to convince me that this is futile can be spent doing something that will actually make you - make it less futile.
CLIENT: I'll convince others if you think that's going make it less so.
THERAPIST: I'm not going to try to convince you. I'm not going to waste my energy doing that. You'll come to a space where you're ready to move on and you will. But you're not there yet and I'm not going to make you move before you're ready. And I'm also not going let you move backward. If you need to be where you are, that's fine. But you can't go back two degrees and start beating yourself up about that.
CLIENT: Well technically I can, you just don't want me to.
THERAPIST: Yes, you can. Of course you can.
CLIENT: I can just beat myself up over this current degree. There's not like there was any class - like I only had one elective anyway and at the time it really made sense to take it because it was academic libraries and I was like oh I'd love to work in an academic library. It's just something I took the [inaudible at 00:50:09] online course that didn't teach me anything. But in general I didn't have much choice over my classes. So they could have done anything in that degree to have made it more mutual. Like maybe I could've - [00:50:27]
THERAPIST: And you like what you studied. That's worth something. I know it doesn't - you're not getting good feedback about it now, but liking what you do and being good at what you do counts for something. And hopefully at some point you're going to get the other feedback too. You're going to find a job in your field. We do need to stop for today but let yourself take some time to be where you are and then choose a direction from it.
Client: So I guess I will see you -
THERAPIST: You're scheduled for the 23rd. In two weeks from today. Have a safe trip. Hopefully you can leave some of this stuff behind here with you since you don't have control of it while you're there enjoying Israel.
CLIENT: [inaudible at 00:51:41] taking the laptop with me but I will try my best not to spend time doing that when I can be out enjoying Israel.
THERAPIST: [inaudible at 00:51:55]. I'll see you when you get back. [00:52:01]
END TRANSCRIPT
