<font size="4"><b>4</b></font>

Thinking about that shadowy room, I have to try to
recapture the context of the time in which I lay there.


We had bought the house three months before, when
I was still stationed in Paris but expecting to come
home. A generous Time-Life Books Division had flown
my wife and me over for a couple of weeks of house

[p. <i>19</i>]

Of course, there was a certain amount of apprehension
involved in this decision, but there were high expectations,
too. I remember, as the whole family arrived
at the village in July, pulling our little trailerful of
household goods behind us, that I said to the children:
"Take a good look now. You'll be calling this place your
home town for the rest of your lives!" I was a pretty
happy man.


In the house that awaited us down toward the Point
there was not yet a stick of furniture. Still to come were
tables, chairs, beds, bureaus and all the other things we
had used in Paris, now being forwarded in two huge
containers. Meanwhile, my wife and I slept on a couple
of borrowed cots, the children in their sleeping bags on
the floor. And we became steady patrons of a place
called Railroad Salvage.


Although neither my wife nor I had been brought up
in affluence, or led what might be called settled, routine
lives, we had never seen anything to compare with Railroad
Salvage— with the possible exception of the Paris
flea market where we had shopped for curiosities from
time to time. It was a huge, cluttered warehouse up on
Route 184 near the New London bridge, and it fairly
shrieked its unbelievable bargains to the world. It sold
things salvaged from train wrecks, or bankruptcy sales,
or fires— any place where goods could be snapped up at
a fraction of their value. We never knew from day to day
what we might find there, since things came in and
went out almost as fast as the customers going through

[p. <i>20</i>]

I esteem Railroad Salvage highly these days, but I
must confess that at that time the place sometimes gave
me an unwarranted case of the jitters. It was worlds
removed from our accustomed shopping haunts in
Paris; I felt we had wandered by mistake into a parody
of a department store. If this was to be the kind of place
we would be shopping in thenceforth, it was not an encouraging
omen for someone just starting out on his
own.


Yet we bought some fine things at Railroad Salvage,
things that may well have saved the sanity of all of us
in those first difficult weeks of settling down in a new
place and into a new life. We got some folding beds
there— I spent my two weeks in the shadowy room on
one of them— and a couple of inflatable yellow plastic
armchairs that the children thought were God's personal
gift to them, bouncing on them as though they
were trampolines. Then we got three more armchairs
(at three dollars each), which would have sold for sixty-five
dollars apiece if they had had the bases that their
Danish makers had originally designed for them (those
had been shipped somewhere else and couldn't be
found). My wife put the baseless seats on three worn-out
Volkswagen tires that we got for nothing from a neighbor
who was going to throw them out, and then she
disguised the tires with some flowered fabrics she found
in a mill end shop. We still have those armchairs, and
all our visitors and cocktail guests sit in them. They are
marvelous conversation pieces and I wouldn't give
them up for anything, but there were moments, back
then, when I would eye them speculatively and wonder
if we ever would be able to replace them with armchairs
from, say, W. &amp; J. Sloane.

[p. <i>21</i>]

Was I developing a problem then, of insecurity? I
don't think so— not yet. True, I had deliberately left my
economic security, aged and mellowed through almost
three decades of constructive work with Time, Incorporated,
behind me in New York. True, I was going to have
to depend now entirely on my own wits and my own
abilities to survive in a world that had always served me
with a periodic pay check handed out by a benevolent
and powerful organization. I was sensible enough to
wonder occasionally where my future pay checks would
come from.


Actually, I knew the answer to that one. I had already
signed up for a large editing job that was paying me
enough to carry us through the coming year. I also had
received an offer to write a book when the editing job
was done. I had some money, and we owned our home.
So there wasn't really anything to worry about— but
these were the seeds of the worries that now began to
blossom into nightmares as I lay flat on my back in the
shadowy room.


If I couldn't even climb aboard my own boat, I thought
to myself as I stared at the dust motes dancing in a stray
beam of August sunshine, how in the world was I going
to make out earning myself a living?


The two things are, of course, entirely unconnected,
but my mind was not making sense the way it should
have. There was, for example, the fact that for at least
two weeks I would be unable to work. Whenever I had
been ill before, for close to thirty-five years, there had
always been an organization in the background to pick
up the tab; sick or well, I still got my pay check. There
was the time in September 1944, when I was sick in
Rumania with an unidentifiable fever. Not only did my
wife continue to receive my pay check; the fact that I
was a war correspondent for <i>Time</i> and <i>Life</i> magazines
helped me in what could have been a very unpleasant
situation. I was thousands of miles from home, deep in

[p. <i>22</i>]

Would he have done the same for a sick American
newsman in Bucharest without the same connections?
Of course he would; but lying on my cot in the dim
bedroom, thinking in ever-widening circles about my
past, present and future, I couldn't see it that way at all.
The way I figured it, a man <i>had</i> to be part of some
organization just to exist; and I wasn't a part of anything
now. I must have been mad, I thought, to arrange things
like this. Just think! Nobody in any office anywhere was
waiting to hear from me, no secretary was making
travel arrangements to some fascinating place where a
blockbuster of a story awaited my attention; no editor
was chewing his nails waiting for me to phone in. Sometimes
these thoughts hit me with such unbearable poignancy
that tears came to my eyes and soaked freely
into the pillow in which I often buried my head, ostrich-like,
to shut out the world.


Withdrawal symptoms I call these thoughts now, and
sometimes we laugh about them. But at the time they
were very real. My mind would turn backward and go
over all the strange, odd, sometimes forlorn but always
fascinating places I had been to when I was a member
of the organization. Like the time I was stuck on a Greek
caïque in October 1944, proceeding to an unknown destination

[p. <i>23</i>]

Or the time I nearly died from bacillary dysentery in
Ankara. Turkey was even worse than Bucharest to be
sick in because it was more an Oriental than a Western
country, with customs that were completely alien to me.
I lay in my bed for days, delirious with a roaring fever;
only once did I manage to stagger out somewhere to see
a Turkish doctor who was supposed to be able to help
me. But I couldn't understand him and he couldn't understand
me, and I came away with some huge yellow
pills that seemed designed for horses rather than humans,
and they did me no good at all.


I really thought I was going to die in Ankara— there
didn't seem to be any way to stop me from dying. If the
fever didn't get me, starvation would. Max Hill, a radio
correspondent for NBC, and Pat Frank, who was then
working for the Office of War Information, hovered over
me anxiously every morning— they were my roommates
in the big, old-fashioned Park Hotel. And one morning,
in the dimness of a feverish stupor, I realized that a
third person was bending over me: a small, slender man
in the uniform of the U.S. Army Air Corps.


He was a doctor, and how Max and Pat found him I
never learned. He had come in on a plane from Cairo,

[p. <i>24</i>]

Later I was told that he spent two days and nights with
me, sitting by my bedside, watching to see if the sulfa
pills he miraculously had with him would save my life.
I don't even know his name.


That memory was good for a whole lot of weeping and
self-pity. The assumption on my part, of course, was
that he never would have come for just some free-lance
writer. "What's that?" I could hear him say to Pat and
Max. "Your roommate is dying of dysentery? Who's he?
Percy Knauth? Never heard of him. You'd better get him
to a doctor." And off he would fly back to Cairo, while my
life slowly ebbed away in the Park Hotel.


I chewed on ruminations like this endlessly, endlessly
in that shadowy room. As the days passed and the pain
gradually faded from my hip and thigh, I began to take
on a new identity: I became a person whose every
thought and move was plagued with doubts and fears.
I would wake up early in the morning and lie there
thinking: Jesus, where am I and how did I ever get here?
The fear would start its crawl up from my stomach
toward my brain, and when it reached my brain it paralyzed
me. If I got up at all, I would limp around the
house like a zombie. The children, seeing me up, would
come to me with plans and projects as they always had;
I would snap at them, or give them a weak smile and,
feeling a hundred years old, spread out my hands in a
helpless gesture. I had one foot in the grave, but I
couldn't bear to tell them that. Our days of play and
work together were over, but I couldn't tell them that
either, so I would finally pull myself together and limp
to the beach with them, or go out in the boat; but I was
scared, scared, scared all the time.

[p. <i>25</i>]

When I could walk again, I got an office for myself. It
was in a large, low building with a brick front on the
other end of Water Street, and it was the best office anyone
could have wished for. It was quiet; it had a window
that looked out on a garden; it had a men's room just
down the hall; it was paneled in wood, and it had bookshelves
already in it. I installed my typewriter there, my
typewriter paper, my books, my big Webster's Third,
which I had brought back from France in my personal
luggage. I hung some pictures on the walls, and bought
a fan at Railroad Salvage, which blew cool September
breezes in through the open window, bringing with
them the scent of fading roses and yellowing grass. And
one morning I sat down in that office with all the tools
of my trade around me, everything I needed to be an
Editor and a Writer, and tried to find my mind— the one
essential tool which I seemed to have lost.


I can see that office now: cozy, snug, perfectly suited
for my purposes— whatever the hell those were. There
I signed the contract for a book about the North Woods
that would appear— and ultimately did appear— in the
Time-Life series on the American Wilderness, and I got
a thousand dollars in exchange for just my signature.
But nothing clicked in my mind, there was nothing that
said: Boy! Here we go! I still had the whole damn book
to write, didn't I?


I did a story for the Time-Life Nature/Science Annual
there, too, and it earned me several thousand dollars.
Furthermore, a researcher came all the way from New
York to make some checking changes with me, and I
told her to bring a bathing suit and we went down to the
beach and talked about the article there, and swam. It
was just as I used to imagine it would be in all those
years when I dreamed of quitting the daily grind and
becoming a free lance. But nothing clicked in my mind;
nothing said: Well, boy, you're on your way! I was
scared, scared, scared.

[p. <i>26</i>]

Every morning I would walk the half mile or so down
Water Street, past the stores and shops of the village,
and when I got to the office I would unlock the door of
the building and call out a big "Hello, everybody! I'm
here!" The place had just one drawback: the whole
building was empty. There had been an oceanographic
outfit there before, but they had gone bankrupt— oh,
dreadful omen!— and I now occupied the building all by
myself.


But even this didn't necessarily have to be a drawback.
I would people the office with names and faces
from what I was now piteously beginning to think of as
the Good Old Days. Kay McCarthy would be sitting
there, giving me a cheery smile as I walked past. Barbara
Miller would lift her head from the dreary research
she was doing and give me her usual short "Hi"
without an exclamation point, and I would think, guiltily
as always: I ought to have something better for her
to do. (She is doing something better now; she got married
and is raising horses with her husband in France.)
Dick Johnston would be sitting at his desk, going over
layouts for next week's issue of <i>Sports Illustrated</i>. And
so on. And so forth.


It was a good try, and sometimes it worked— for a
while. But then the figures would turn unsubstantial
and fade away, and the silence would resume, and I
would sit there, staring at my typewriter, thinking:
What in hell <i>happened</i>? How did I ever get <i>here</i>?


Sometimes, in the golden September afternoons, my
daughter, Lissie, would stop in to see me after school
with her friend Sharon. Both were then about nine
years old. Who needs ghosts for company when there
are children like that around? There was a big, carpeted
room right across the hall from mine, and with the yellow
sunlight streaming in through the windows, making
dappled shadows on the floor from the leaves of the
apple tree that twinkled outside, the two girls would do

[p. <i>27</i>]

Somewhere along in this time, I found myself sitting
once again in the doctor's office— the same one I had
gone to about the pain in my hip and thigh. I didn't have
any pains anymore— except for those indescribable
ones chasing each other around in my head all day —
and all he wanted to do was check my blood pressure,
which he had felt was a little high and bore some
watching. I leafed idly through a magazine, trying not
to think about how much I wanted a cigarette (smoking
was frowned on in his office) and circling on my usual
unremitting round of thoughts about what I was doing,
where I was going, how we would live when the appalling
punishment I felt was imminent would finally hit
me, and all the rest of it.


Lately these thoughts had been getting grimmer. I
couldn't really say why, but they were. There wasn't any
reason. Our furniture had arrived at last and we were
comfortably installed at home, the kids were well, there
was money in the bank, and in my pursuit of survival I
wasn't doing too badly. And yet the fear would not go
away....


Outside, the autumn day was dark and depressing,
with rain in the air and a chill wind blowing. The countryside
was already assuming the bleakness of winter,
and the atmosphere of the waiting room— the mothers
with their anxieties, their sniffling children, their obvious

[p. <i>28</i>]

The doctor was brisk and cheerful as I took my seat.
"Well, Percy," he said, "how've you been?"


For a moment I stared at him in utter bewilderment.
Who was he? Where was I? What was I doing here?
Above all, who is this guy who wants to know how I've
<i>been</i>?


I couldn't even begin to find words to tell him. I sat
there and stared at him, and then I burst into tears.


It was the first time I had given any outward manifestation
of what was going on inside me, and when the
dam burst it was— well, it was like a dam bursting. I
wept uncontrollably. I shook, I sobbed, and the scalding
tears streamed down my face. I can remember thinking,
in honest astonishment: Jesus! What's happening to me
now? But I couldn't stop, not for anything or anybody. I
didn't even <i>want</i> to stop. For the first time in weeks I felt
some release from the agony that had been pursuing me
so relentlessly. I was going to tell somebody else about
it, however awkwardly and melodramatically; above
all, I was in the presence of someone who had stated in
plain language that he was interested in knowing how
I was. <i>Somebody cared</i>. That was all I needed to know.


Finally, I got some semblance of control over myself.
The doctor, who was at first dumbfounded by my unexpectedly
dramatic response to his innocent question,
managed to evoke bits and pieces of the story from me,
with the help of smelling salts and an arm around my
shoulders, which steadied me and brought me a measure
of comfort— a thing I had long since ceased to believe
could exist. He got up at last and walked over to his
desk.

[p. <i>29</i>]

"Blood pressure, hell," he said. "You're a sick man."


"But what's the matter with me?" I cried back at him.


"I can't figure all this out. Am I losing my mind?"


<i>There</i>. I had said it out loud. I had finally put my worst
fear into plain language. Now the roof would fall in.
There could be only one answer to that question. Already
my mind raced ahead in anticipation: a quieting
shot in the arm, a strait jacket maybe, a trip to the hospital,
and then, in due course, the ride to Norwich, to the
state hospital for the insane, that grim, brick-walled
building whose facade was already familiar from occasional
drives by.


His answer was a total surprise to me. "You're not
losing your mind," he said. "You're <i>sick</i>. You're suffering
from a clinical case of involuted depression and
we've got to do something for it right away."


The rest of that day is hazy in my memory. The only
thing that I could think of was: It's got a name— this
thing that's been plaguing me has got a name and something
can be done about it. I know he gave me some pills
that he said would help me until I got some real help.
I know he took me out the door and watched me worriedly
as I drove away; he had wanted to call my wife,
but I had persuaded him that I could drive home safely.
I know I did get home, and rushed distractedly through
the house to the telephone, because he had also given
me the name of a man I could call upon for expert
consultation— a psychiatrist in a nearby town. I wanted
nothing more than to see that man right away, <i>now</i>, and
I could scarcely contain myself as I dialed the number.
It rang, and rang, and rang; I didn't know whether I
would break down again or scream.


The phone was picked up at last, but the nurse at the
other end told me the doctor was busy with a patient.
Did I want an appointment? Yes, I said, I urgently
needed one. When could I come? I could be there in a
half hour....

[p. <i>30</i>]

"That won't be necessary," the cool voice said— and
then came the crack of doom, matter-of-factly delivered
over fifteen miles of telephone wire. "I can fit you in —
let's see: yes— two weeks from today at four in the afternoon.
Will that be satisfactory?"


Two weeks from today? Was the woman <i>mad</i>? Didn't
she realize how close I was to the end of my tether?
Didn't she <i>know</i> what a wait of two weeks meant to me?


I explained, as rationally as I could. I gave her the
name of the doctor who was referring me. I said I was
desperate. Perhaps psychiatric nurses become inured to
the desperation in the voices that call them; perhaps
they have to because there are so many of them. There
was nothing I could do. Somehow I would have to survive
for two weeks more.


It did not occur to me to call my own doctor back; he
was an internist, and I felt he had done what he could.
I clutched the pills that he had given me and tried to get
used to the idea of waiting out a fortnight. The gray chill
of autumn pressed in through the windows; a drizzle of
rain began to fall. I was tired, unspeakably tired, but I
knew that sleep would not come.


Two weeks more. I had to go on living like this two
weeks more.

