<font size="4"><b>17: Group Approaches for Persons With Disabilities</b></font>

MILTON SELIGMAN<br />
<i>University of Pittsburgh</i>


LAURA MARSHAK<br />
<i>Indiana University of Pennsylvania</i>


Much has changed for persons with
disabilities over the years. Technology
has increased longevity and improved
lifestyles, especially for those with chronic illness
and disability. Legislation has altered
children's educational opportunities, and accessibility
for children and adults has widened the
world of opportunity for those with disabilities.
Language changes have evolved from descriptors
such as "defective," "handicapped," and
"disabled" to person-first language such as "a
person with a disability." Together, technology,
legislation, and improved language have combined
to bring those with disabilities into the
mainstream of society. However, stigma toward
people with disabilities continues to be a significant
problem. In fact, stigma creates social barriers
(handicaps) that pose larger obstacles than
do physical limitations.


As the reader will see later in the chapter,
groups for persons with disabilities have distinct
functions. They have been reported to help
overcome powerlessness, isolation, depression,
and powerful challenges to one's sense of self.
They provide support, information, encouragement,
and guidance. They can play a role in
relapse prevention and help calm fears when
facing painful and difficult medical procedures.
They provide a fellowship of like-challenged
individuals pursuing some measure of stability,
identity, and a positive future. All in all, such
groups provide participants with numerous
advantages to help them endure and overcome the
challenges brought on by illness and disability.


Social attitudes along with other concomitants
of the illness and disability experience
necessitate that the professional community
continue to provide services and treatment for
those who endure these challenges. The chapter
begins with a brief history of group treatment
for those with disabilities. It then discusses relevant
therapeutic factors and group themes and
describes the self-help group movement that has
become a salient force in the disability area.
This chapter also explores the group leader's
reactions to disability, practical considerations,

[p. <i>240</i>]

HISTORY


According to Spira (1997), group therapy with
persons who have illnesses or disabilities has
only recently received the attention it deserves.
This is an interesting observation because the
seeds for group therapy are often acknowledged
to have been Pratt's group meetings with
tuberculosis patients, circa 1905 (Pratt, 1907).
The chronicity of tuberculosis as well as its
cyclical nature alerted Pratt to the discouragement
and depression that accompanied the illness.
It is to Pratt's credit that he observed the
psychological concomitants of this illness and
prescribed a group procedure that turned out to
be appropriate to this special patient population.
Spira asserted that historically, group
work has been primarily directed at treating
people with psychological issues rather than illness
or disability-related concerns. Of course,
some would argue that for many coping with
chronic illness or disability, psychological
concerns such as depression and anxiety can
interfere with progress toward a successful
rehabilitation.


World War II spurred the development of
groups and the training of group leaders in
response to overwhelming numbers of war
casualties. The need for psychological services
outpaced their availability, and therefore, group
therapy was considered an efficient treatment
designed to serve more veterans. Groups were
established for those suffering from trauma and
other psychological reactions to the war, but
they were also formed to address the issues
brought about by permanent disabilities.


The current interest in groups for persons
with disabilities has been encouraged by the
surge of studies linking psychosocial factors to
health outcome and showing health improvement
for patients in group therapy treatment
(Spira, 1997). Spira also reported that group
therapy effectiveness in combination with costand
time-efficiency "are responsible for the sudden
popularity of this mode of treatment" (p. 4).


The research that attests to the effectiveness
of group therapy in general (Fuhriman &amp;
Burlingame, 1994) and specifically to this
population (Johnson &amp; Johnson, 1991;
Halstead &amp; Halstead, 1983; Rose, West, &amp;
Clifford, 2000; Rothenberg, 1994; Spira, 1997)
argues that groups are now employed out of
both an efficiency and effectiveness rationale.
Unlike the post-World War II period when
efficiency was paramount, group therapy,
including groups for persons with disabilities
and chronic illness, is now employed more for
the profound changes made in one's coping
abilities, interpersonal relationships, and symptom
levels.


Groups provide an important opportunity to
address social and emotional issues often intensified
by a disability. These include coping with
major life transitions, existential issues, and
prejudice. In addition, persons with disabilities
(especially newly acquired ones) often have
heightened issues around changes in body
image and functioning, as well as social relationships.
The issues are not unique to persons
with disabilities, but are often amplified when
disabilities are suddenly acquired.


Specific groups for those with an illness or
disability are helpful for persons who are not
well suited to intensive, insight-oriented, longterm
individual psychotherapy (Spitz &amp; Spitz,
1999). A further justification and value of such
groups is the extent to which they can help prevent
or reduce relapse, a goal that can be central
to a number of conditions, such as groups for
victims of cancer or poststroke.


The remainder of this chapter will address
issues that are especially germane to persons
with disabilities. Although in many respects, the
conduct of group work for those with disabilities
or chronic illness proceeds in ways similar
to that of persons who are challenged by other
life circumstances, this chapter will discuss the
unique considerations that characterize these
populations. For the most part, groups for this
population tend to have both therapeutic and
psychoeducational components.


GROUP THEMES


Persons with disabilities may worry about
whether the disability or illness will essentially
stay the same, improve, or worsen (Rolland,1994).

[p. <i>241</i>]

It is well established that changes or transitions
in one's life can lead to stress. For persons
with disabilities or chronic illness, numerous
and powerful changes are confronted by the
introduction of a life-altering illness or disability.
According to Falvo (1999), the following
represent threatened areas that people with disabilities
may face that can be the focus of group
meetings:


• Life and physical well-being


• Body integrity and comfort as a result of the
illness or disability and concerns about diagnostic
procedures or treatment


• Independence, privacy, autonomy, and control


• Self-concept and fulfillment of customary
roles


• Life goals and future plans


• Relationships with family, friends, and
colleagues


• Ability to remain in familiar surroundings


• Economic well-being (p. 2)


Thus, according to Falvo, the goal of psychotherapy
is the stability of self and identity
in the face of the aforementioned threats.
Goodheart and Lansing (1997) noted that any
successful intervention should address two
related factors: (a) the internal disorganization
that threatens the structure of the self and identity
and (b) the reorganization and reconsideration of
self and identity based on a changed reality (p. 5).


Anxieties can center around whether one will
be able to return to work or school, be able to
walk and adjust to a wheelchair, have and enjoy
sex, and so forth (Goodheart &amp; Lansing, 1997).
Existential issues such as changes in self-image,
how patients spend time, a reevaluation of priorities,
and a consideration of life in the face of
dying may also arise. For many, just being able
to verbally release in the group private worries
that have plagued them can help to reduce
anxiety and depression. Group members can
articulate their thoughts and fears and receive
support and information on how others have
dealt with similar concerns.


Group leaders need to be alert to the issues
mentioned in this section. Denial can be present
in groups, but it is the leader's task to help
group members broach the issues that brought
them to the group. However, due to the isolation
found in the lives of some persons with disabilities,
the leader must also recognize the essential
connecting function of "small talk." A balance
between socialization and actively confronting
challenging issues is the hallmark of a well-functioning
group.


DISABILITY AND THERAPEUTIC
FACTORS IN GROUPS


Although we don't want to explore in depth the
therapeutic factors (Yalom, 1995) because they
are discussed elsewhere in this volume (for a
detailed description of therapeutic factors in
groups, see Kivlighan &amp; Holmes, Chapter 2),
we will discuss those factors that are especially
germane to groups of persons with disabilities.
From our experiences, we believe that the following
therapeutic factors are especially relevant
in disability-oriented groups.


1. <i>Imparting information</i>. For example,
clients may be helpful to others in the group by
revealing where certain services are available or
where relevant job opportunities exist. For
example, they may share information about professionals
that have a track record of treating
persons with disabilities and who offer specific
expertise, empathy, and support. Group
members can also share with each other how
they have dealt with unkind, prejudiced people
and awkward situations in public places.
Didactic instruction may be used by the leader
or invited experts to inform group members of
medical processes or psychological concerns
characteristic of a particular illness or disability.
Leaders can also educate and provide information
on a variety of health issues and help
participants understand and cope with identity
concerns, anger, and the grieving process
(Jacobs, Harvill, &amp; Masson, 1988).



[p. <i>242</i>]

3. <i>Universality</i>. Group members discover
that others with similar conditions face similar
challenges. Universality is a powerful group
dynamic that reassures and confirms that one is
not alone. The group provides relief that there
are others who can truly understand by virtue of
their experience. Group members can learn that
others can cope with the disability and, indeed,
can lead productive lives. A major benefit of
groups is to understand from others that individuals
should not allow disabilities to define their
existence or to substantially hinder them from
their goals.


4. <i>Altruism</i>. Contributing to another's well-being
can be an important source of self-esteem.
Group members are encouraged to reach out and
be supportive and empathic toward other group
members. Since some members of counseling
groups suffer from low self-esteem or depression,
the process of helping others can be an
ego-strengthening experience. Many persons
with disabilities are cast in the dependent role of
receiving most of the time. Being in the giving
role promotes elevated self-esteem, a sense of
accomplishment, and the realization that one
has something to offer to others.


5. <i>Development of socializing behaviors</i>.
Loneliness and withdrawal can be reduced by
learning behaviors that promote prosocial interactions.
Participants learn strategies that can
help them feel more comfortable and competent
when interacting with professionals, family
members, friends, and strangers. Role play can
help by enacting interpersonal behaviors that
facilitate communication and decrease isolation.
For example, a shy person can learn to speak out
to his physicians so that he feels heard and
acquires the information he needs. A defensive,
angry person with a disability can learn to be
more open and less hostile, thereby creating
more gratifying relationships.


Group leaders should be knowledgeable
about therapeutic factors and actively promote
them when they do not develop naturally. For
example, in terms of altruism, the leaders
should encourage group members to reach out
to others and explain that by helping, one can
be thrust into the role of an active, contributing,
and knowledgeable person. Also, more
active strategies (e.g., role play) can help
group members learn behaviors that will
enable them to have positive relationships
and feel more in control of their environment.
In groups with persons who are disabled
or chronically ill, the leader can encourage
members to offer their knowledge of a particular
condition. Most important, the leader
can invite experts to the group to explain and
comment on coping attitudes and behaviors.
Thus, imparting information, a prominent therapeutic
factor in such groups, becomes an
important component that the leader should
promote.


MEDICAL CRISIS GROUP COUNSELING


There is an approach to helping persons with
chronic medical illness that involves a structured,
short-term group intervention focused on
several issues. This modality, called medical
crisis counseling (MCC), was developed by
Irene Pollin in the late 1970s. The impetus for
MCC came from her experience of raising and
then losing two children to illness (Pollin,
1995).


Pollin's personal experience led her to obtain
a professional degree and eventually to develop
MCC. She went on to establish a clinic for
persons with chronic illnesses in Washington,
D.C. In 1994, the Linda Pollin Institute was
established at the Harvard Medical School, supporting
postgraduate training and conducting
research on the MCC model.


MCC groups have been offered to persons
with a variety of chronic illnesses, for
example, lupus, heart disease, cancer, and
AIDS. The approach asserts that the principal
psychosocial issues across illness are the
same, no matter the condition. The groups
focus the content of the sessions on the
following fears:

[p. <i>243</i>]

1. Loss of control


2. Loss of self-image


3. Dependency


4. Stigma


5. Abandonment


6. Expressing anger


7. Isolation


8. Death


According to Pollin (1995), these issues
often occur in sequence, but the order can vary.
More than one concern can occur at the same
time, and they can reemerge. These concerns
form the basis of the MCC model and determine
what is discussed in the sessions.


Before proceeding with the MCC model, the
reader will note the overlap of some of the central
issues for persons with disability or chronic
illness noted by Pollin (1995), Falvo (1999),
and Goodheart and Lansing (1997). We believe
that the central concerns noted by these authors
provide considerable grist to the group
endeavor. We would like to synthesize those
factors that by virtue of our literature search
and personal experience reflect salient concerns
people with disabilities or chronic illness
experience:


1. Mourning losses


2. Self-esteem issues


3. Fear of the future


4. Threats to important relationships


5. Threats to independence, fear of dependency


6. Threats to issues of control


7. Threats to body integrity


8. Existence of depression and anxiety


9. Issues related to stigma and acceptance from
others


10. Job and financial viability


11. Accessibility


12. Issues of isolation and abandonment


These challenges caused by illness or
disability in persons reflect common themes in
group work. They constitute many, though not
all, of the central issues that are discussed in
group treatment.


In terms of forming a group, Pollin's (1995)
MCC model advocates including members who
have the same illness and are at similar stages
of the disease, making trust and empathy easier
to attain. According to Pollin, strict homogeneity
is the ideal in groups to foster alliances and
rapid identification among the participants.
Persons readily identify with the issues faced
by others that they share. Such groups tend to
be less psychodynamic and more supportive
and educational. The benefits of such groups
include symptomatic relief over a short period
of time, better cohesion, better attendance, less
conflict, fewer cliques, and less resistance
(Furst, 1960; Yalom, 1995). Yalom noted that
heterogeneous groups are better suited for more
intensive interaction and for altering character
structure. Heterogeneous groups take longer to
coalesce but offer a richer variety of issues
from which to learn and a diverse membership,
with problems and concerns that are similar and
others that are different. The concepts of heterogeneity
and homogeneity can be misleading
in that a group of cancer patients may share the
illness, but they may be different ages, single or
married, and have different concerns about the
cancer.


In selecting members, a first step for the
leader is to ascertain the motivation and commitment
of prospective members. The leader
must be sure that a group member doesn't face
obstacles, perhaps brought on by a serious medical
condition, that mitigate group participation.
Relatedly, Pollin (1995) stated,


Given the number of possible combinations short
of the ideal (which is strict homogeneity), all that
can be said here by way of advice is that the
greater the specificity, the greater the group's
chance of being effective. In general, the group
leader should avoid combining people who are in
the very early stages of a condition with those in
advanced stages of the same condition; confronting
the manifestations of an illness at an
advanced stage can be very disheartening for
people in its early stage, (p. 140)

[p. <i>244</i>]

As the reader can readily determine, the
MCC model puts considerable emphasis on
member selection and group composition. Thus,
group leaders need to consider the many variables
that can potentially affect the group experience,
rience, such as disability type, stage of illness or
disability, age, gender, race, personality, and so
on. While extolling the virtues of homogeneity,
Pollin (1995) acknowledges that member
identification can be a source of an excessively
intense experience. She reports on a group composed
of wheelchair-bound women in their 20s
with advanced-stage multiple sclerosis (MS).
The experience proved to be too traumatic for
these women, who saw themselves in other
members. This forced them to confront the
harsh reality of being young, female, and significantly
impaired. This was too painful for the
women, and the group disbanded.


For the group leader, then, it is important to
be cognizant of group variables such as stage of
illness or disability, central focus (e.g., terminal
vs. chronic phase vs. adjusting to diagnosis), or
disability type. According to the MCC model,
the leader should embrace homogeneity as the
main goal in group composition. Our experience
does suggest, however, that selecting group
members is a challenging and unpredictable
endeavor. Groups that appear to be ideal in terms
of certain selection criteria can, by virtue of a
number of characteristics, turn out to be failures.
And at times, when we believe that a group
will fail based on group composition, we are surprised
to find a cohesive, productive working
group. At times, the personalities of group
members appear to be a more critical variable
than illness, disability, and stage of illness.


GROUPS FOR PERSONS WITH
ACUTE MEDICAL ILLNESS


As noted, there is great value in being with
others who are "insiders" to a shared disabling
condition, because life experiences and concerns
differ so much from others. Persons in need of
organ transplantation fall in this category. As
described by Abbey and Farrow (1998),
"Transplant candidates and their families face
potentially opposing tasks, preparing to die
should they not receive a transplant, and
fighting to live and make preparations to adjust
following a successful transplant" (p. 175).


Abbey and Farrow's (1998) work with
groups for organ transplantation patients
provides a description of how a range of group
structures and goals can be developed to meet
the needs of individuals who share a similar life-threatening
disorder. Their work also elucidates
the value of a mutuality of concerns. According
to Abbey and Farrow (1998),


The vast majority of transplant candidates are
waiting for a cadaveric organ, that is, someone has
to die and the bereaved family donate their loved
one's organs for transplant to be possible. This
leads to feelings of guilt and sadness that their
opportunity for life requires someone else's death.
With increasing desperation for transplantation,
either in terms of deteriorating medical status or
increased time on the waiting list, some individuals
begin actively wishing for an organ and may
make comments that others at a distance may find
macabre or upsetting (e.g. "hopefully this holiday
weekend will bring my transplant with everyone
out drinking and boating"). Group members are
often relieved to find that they are not the only
ones with such thoughts, (p. 177)


As with other groups for members with a specific
disability, organ transplantation patients
share many general concerns, but their individual
issues differ by stage of treatment and/or
recovery. Abbey and Farrow (1998) describe
the group therapy work at Toronto Hospital
Multi-Organ Transplantation Program, which is
based on a pyramidal structure. The hospital
has a range of groups for persons coping
with different aspects and periods of time in the
transplant process. The base of the pyramid
comprises groups that are primarily psychoeducational
in nature; toward the top of the triangle
are more emotionally intensive groups focused
on interaction and emotional expression. The
overall group program was developed with the
expectation that some participants will develop
the abilities to move up the pyramid and benefit
from more insight-oriented group work after
gaining group experience. Others may not
be interested in, need, or benefit from groups
that are more intensive in terms of focusing on
insight and emotional expression.

[p. <i>245</i>]

GROUP THERAPY AND
COGNITIVE DISABILITIES


Group therapy also holds great benefits for
persons with disabilities that affect their cognitive
abilities. Its use for social skills training
is common in many treatment programs for
persons with mental retardation, traumatic brain
injury, or many other disorders that affect intellectual
functioning. Many practitioners overlook
the potential for group counseling as a
means to help individuals with cognitive disabilities
address concerns of an emotional
nature (in contrast to skills training). Our focus
in this section is to provide readers with a
glimpse of some additional ways in which
group counseling can be used with persons
whose disabilities affect their cognition. Toward
this end, we turn to a brief discussion of group
counseling and mental retardation.


Rothenberg (1994) provides an excellent
illustration of the creative use of group counseling
with bereavement groups for persons with
developmental disabilities. It was developed
to help these young adults cope with their
grief over the sudden death of an important and
loved member of the clients' network. Group
members had a range of developmental delays
in areas of cognition, language, motor abilities,
and/or social development. The group was conceptualized
as "intended to facilitate the group
of participants through a planned grieving
process, based on knowledge of the stages of
grieving, and the special needs of the population"
(p. 62). This is an important model
because emotional needs of persons with cognitive
limitations are often overlooked due to
the stereotype that they are "like children."
Consequently, they often struggle with adult
emotions with little support.


The value and viability of group counseling
for persons with mental retardation is also
emphasized by Tomasulo, Keller, and Pfadt
(1995) in their discussion of the use of an inter-active-behavioral
model. It shares a similarity
with the work by Rothenberg (1994) in that it
focuses on traditional psychotherapeutic factors
more so than skills training. The authors
describe group facilitators as needing to do what
they termed "cognitive networking." They
define this concept as follows:


This is an effort to establish basic interactions
between and among the group's members by having
them repeat and acknowledge or otherwise
support what was said by another member of the
group. Physically orienting towards the person
speaking, looking at them and echoing back what
was heard are central elements to cognitive
networking, (p. 3)
<a href="javascript: __showhidenote('_note_27880');">[note]</a><div id="_note_27880" style="display:none;background-color:#FFDD99;margin:0px;border:2px solid #800000; padding:2px;">1. From Tomasulo, Keller, and Pfadt (1995).
Reprinted with permission from: http:thearc.org/
faqs/group.html, pp. 1-9.</div>


The interested reader is encouraged to review
this article because it provides a fund of knowledge
about how to handle some of the difficulties
in applying group counseling techniques to
persons who are mentally retarded.


The group counseling literature is also
beginning to address the needs of persons with
traumatic brain injuries and cognitive impairments
not accompanied by mental retardation.
Stein (1996) wrote of the importance of modifying
traditional group counseling techniques
to compensate for the fact that persons with
brain injuries often have problems with language
and conversational exchange. He provides
very practical advice, which includes the
following:


Given that some group members may have problems
tracking the flow of conversation, the clinician
should make a special effort to regularly
summarize the gist of the discussion verbally or
by means of points written on a blackboard. For
those patients who have difficulty organizing their
approach to problems, the therapist can help by
structuring the group process to highlight steps
in an orderly problem-solving process. Other
patients with poor social judgment and poor error
monitoring can be helped by eliciting concrete
information about their perceptions and their
plans by inviting other members to provide constructive
feedback. (Stein, 1996, p. 271)


Stein also writes about the importance of
reducing emotional intensity and modifying the
use of ambiguous language, if necessary, along
with providing greater structure than in groups
comprising members without cognitive impairments.
These all represent relatively simple
modifications of group counseling technique
that can make the benefits of group counseling
available to a wider range of persons with
disabilities.

[p. <i>246</i>]

GROUP DYNAMICS WHEN A SINGLE
MEMBER HAS A DISABILITY


It is also useful for group therapists to be aware
of additional dynamics that may occur in a
group when there is only one member with a
disability. This type of group composition is
clearly valuable and provides rich opportunities
for growth; however, it is important to be aware
of distortions in interaction and perception that
are likely to arise. The first has to do with what
has been termed "interactional strain" (Davis,
1972). It has been clearly documented that
persons without disabilities often, at least initially,
interact in a less natural manner with
persons who have disabilities (Marshak &amp;
Seligman, 1993; Safilos-Rothschild, 1970).
Initial encounters are often described as stilted,
somewhat uncomfortable, less intimate, less
candid, and terminated relatively quickly
(Freund &amp; McGuire, 1999; Kleck, Ono, &amp;
Hastorf, 1966). These difficulties arise in part
because many people without disabilities view
those with disabilities as being very different
from themselves in terms of their interests, needs,
and daily concerns (Marshak &amp; Seligman, 1993).
The interactional strain is also partially due to
people with disabilities who worry about saying
the "wrong thing" that may offend. Often, this
involves unnecessary monitoring of one's speech
in order not to say something like "Do you see
my point?" to someone without vision. Actually,
this type of verbal vigilance is in itself problematic,
whereas these casual phrases are acceptable
by persons with disabilities.


The phenomenon of "inferred emotional consequences"
may result in stereotypical ways in
which others view the group member who has a
disability. Persons who overlook the growth-promoting
aspects of living with a disability
assume that they would feel overwhelmed with
bitterness, depression, or feelings of inferiority.
Often, these negative emotions are projected
onto the member with a disability.


By the same token, group members with disabilities
may also find that they misperceive
others. They may be overly sensitive to some
issues and profit from group experiences in
which they have an opportunity to process
interactions in a group setting. For example, we
have worked in therapy with several individuals
who have felt repeatedly excluded by others due
to their disabilities. Sometimes this is accurate;
however, it is not uncommon that the perceived
exclusion is actually the result of their own
withdrawal from interactions. This withdrawal
may result from fear of rejection or doubts that
they had anything useful to contribute, problems
with self-worth, or reactions from past negative
interactions. For these individuals, valuable
insights about their roles in social exclusion can
be gained within a heterogeneous group of disabled
and nondisabled persons. The insight
gained from such an experience can be generalized
outside the group.


Questions regarding "politically correct"
speech are often raised regarding verbal references
to disability. There is a great deal written
on this topic and some on the importance of
watching one's speech. Our position is that it is
important to avoid phrases that have the potential
to be offensive or contribute to stereotypes
of persons with disabilities. For these reasons,
we suggest avoiding phrases such as "the disabled"
or "the handicapped" because they
obscure the individuality of persons with
disabilities. In specific, their disabilities are a
single aspect of their lives, not the defining
characteristic. We also believe that it is important
to watch the use of clichés that portray
persons with disabilities as unusually courageous,
brave, and "gifted" to compensate for
their disabilities. Similarly, references to
persons as "victims" of disorders should be
avoided.


It is important that group leaders work to
decrease misperceptions of or overreactions to
the group member's disability. Of particular
importance is the encouragement of normalized
interactions with other group members. It is not
unusual for people to subscribe to what has been
called "the norm to be kind" when interacting
with someone who has a severe disability
(Hastorf, Northcraft, &amp; Picciotto, 1979). This
term pertains to the withholding of useful but
negative feedback because of pity and the desire
to spare someone "more pain." Actually, the
feedback is often what is needed to promote personal
growth and should be present in group
counseling to function as the powerful treatment
modality that it can be.

[p. <i>247</i>]

SELF-HELP GROUPS


Any discussion of group work for persons with
disabilities or chronic illness must include some
observations about self-help groups (SHGs).
SHGs represent a major resource for persons
with disabilities or chronic illness and enjoy
considerably more popularity than traditional
psychotherapy groups. Such groups exist for
just about any condition or life circumstance
(Barlow, Burlingame, Nebeker, &amp; Anderson,
2000; Lieberman, 1990; Seligman &amp; Marshak,
1990).


SHGs for persons with a variety of life
circumstances and psychological issues have
a long history. Lieberman (1990) offers the
following definition:


[Self-help groups are] composed of members who
share a common condition, situation, heritage,
symptom, or experience. They are largely self
governing and self regulating. They emphasize
self reliance and generally offer a face-to-face or
phone-to-phone network that is available and
accessible without charge. They tend to be self
supporting rather than dependent on external
funding, (p. 2)


With the popularity of the Internet and the
capacity for interaction through e-mailing, "virtual"
support groups have become accessible.
An interesting research question is whether
groups that are not face-to-face are as effective
as groups held in a church, community building,
or a person's home. The anonymity and accessibility
of the Internet may benefit some (e.g.,
those that live in a remote area or are home-bound),
but it may not be as helpful for others
where person-to-person interaction can help to
combat isolation, alienation, and anomie.


Originally, the "purest" model (using only
lay members and leaders) was preeminent,
because it was created by people for people,
without the inclusion of professionals. In fact,
some SHGs held a certain amount of disdain
toward professionals whom they deemed to
have failed them. This would fit into
Lieberman's (1990) view of SHGs as an alternate
service delivery system: one that meets
one's needs, is accessible, free, and in addition
to or instead of a professional delivery system.


Some would argue that by referring to such
gatherings as SHGs is a misnomer. In many
cases, these are professionally led support
groups. According to Barlow et al. (2000),
patient-led SHGs are "apparently neither valid
nor acceptable any longer" (p. 54). These authors
cite a survey of 2,000 SHGs in California and
found that 84% of the groups had professional
involvement. They noted further that there are
opportunities for professionals to get involved in
establishing, coleading, and consulting. Goodman
and Jacobs (1994) also observed that some professionals
are involved in starting SHGs. It seems
the group title remains, but its definition and
makeup have altered recently.


Since professionals are involved in SHGs,
how do their roles differ from leaders who conduct
psychotherapy groups? One difference
might be that some professional leaders share
the disability or illness of the group members.
Furthermore, groups for persons with chronic
illnesses or disabilities tend to eschew psychodynamic
group models or models that promote
intense, here-and-now interaction. Group
members may be less likely to join a more
dynamically oriented group, perhaps believing
that such groups are designed for persons with
more serious psychological problems. SHG
members' needs tend to be more directed at
exchanging information, gaining support from
others in similar situations, and acquiring
knowledge to heighten feelings of control and
competence. The members' needs tend to be
less intrapsychic or interpersonal, generally
speaking, yet there are emotional needs related
to members' relationships with family members,
professionals, and in some instances, a hostile
and prejudiced society.


Because SHGs are more concerned with
being supportive, cathartic, and educational,
there may not be a pressing need to have extensive
training in psychodynamics, group dynamics,
or group leadership. And yet like any
therapeutic group (we believe that SHGs have a
therapeutic purpose and outcome), some rudimentary
knowledge or training pertaining to
group dynamics, managing problems, and providing
safety should be a prerequisite for group
leadership. We suspect that peer leaders do not
generally have fundamental training or experience
in group leadership, which may account

[p. <i>248</i>]

One of the authors was invited to a session of
a parent group in which the requirement for
membership was the loss of a child. The group
had recently lost their peer leader and felt rudderless.
They also wanted "tips" from an experienced
group leader, such as what themes to look
for during the group's interaction; how to cope
with an overly aggressive, verbose, or shy
member; and when it is helpful to intervene and
when to remain silent. This SHG wanted competent
lay leadership to keep the members safe,
especially in light of their traumatic losses. They
already felt vulnerable and in need of support.


As we know, SHGs tend to be specific to a
condition, an illness, or a disability (Ciechoski,
2000). Therefore, we believe that in addition to
some exposure to group dynamics, a leader
should be knowledgeable about the disability
that is the group's focus. In the absence of direct
knowledge, the leader should be aware of agencies
or professionals in the community that can
provide information and accurate knowledge.
The group leader may be a social worker or
psychologist, but what the group may need on
occasion is a medical professional who can be
invited to a group meeting.


As noted, some SHGs are led by members,
some by professional leaders who share the
disability, and still others by professionals, such
as counselors, psychologists, or social workers,
who do not share the disability. Group members
seek a supportive, therapeutic environment that
also has an educational component. We believe
that leaders need to recognize that persons with
disabilities do not by virtue of their condition
have problems beyond the restrictions of the
disabilities themselves or those imposed by
society. However, the leader needs to be aware
that preexisting or coexisting mental health
problems may be present along with the disability.
Generally speaking, groups should be supportive,
educative, and interpersonal. The leader
needs to encourage interpersonal exchanges and
facilitate openness when the group is in denial.
However, in-depth psychotherapy is less likely
to be the goal of a prospective group member
who is attempting to cope with a major
alteration in his or her life.


THERAPIST REACTION TO DISABILITY


Disability is a personal characteristic that often
has the power to elicit reactions from others. It
has been well documented that initial interactions
with a person with a disability often draw
out stereotypes, altered interpersonal patterns,
and personal fears (Wright, 1988). It has been
established that professionals can share the same
misconceptions of the general public regarding
persons with disabilities (Elston &amp; Snow, 1986;
Marshak &amp; Seligman, 1993). Group leaders are
prone to a number of misconceptions and stereotypes
commonly held by the general public.


One of the stereotypes that most significantly
affects participation in group therapy is the
concept of <i>inferred emotional consequences</i>.
The phenomenon of inferred emotional consequences
has been described by Wright (1988) as
referring to the general tendency to assume that
persons with disabilities will almost invariably
experience negative personality and emotional
effects by virtue of the difficulties inherent in
living with a disability. Although the research
on adjustment to disability does not support
this common stereotypical belief, it persists
(Coleman, 1977; Marshak &amp; Seligman, 1993;
Wright, 1988). This has the potential to affect
group experiences in more than one significant
way. First, group leaders may assume that the
member's emotional problems are directly due
to having a disability. As one person with cerebral
palsy stated about her counseling experience,
"The therapist always wanted to talk about
my disability, and that was not what I was there
for." Because the disability is only one characteristic
of the individual, problems with adjustment
may or may not be related to the disability.
Furthermore, if there is a relationship between
having a disability and emotional and/or adjustment
problems, the effects of the disability
may be much more indirect than what group
members and leaders assume. Persons unfamiliar
with the disability experience often assume
that some of the main problems with having a
disability have to do with direct impact of the
impairment itself or functional limitations of the
disability per se. They tend to overlook that it is
often the societal context of disability that is
most disturbing, such as problems due to stigma,
discrimination, and environmental barriers.

[p. <i>249</i>]

Interactions with persons who have severe
disabilities often trigger personal fears, particularly
when the disability has been acquired
through illness or injury. Such interactions are
reminders of one's own vulnerability to disability
or illness, and this is often accompanied by an
increase in anxiety. This phenomenon, termed
<i>distressed identification</i>, and described by Siller
(1976), often results in attempts to introduce "psychological
distance" as a way to manage this anxiety.
This reaction is exacerbated by the common
stereotype that persons with disabilities lead
tragic lives. Consequently, group leaders may find
they are initially less comfortable and less well
engaged with some individuals for this reason.


Group leaders serve as models for members
regarding a congenial attitude with persons who
have disabilities. Toward this end, it is important
that group leaders increase their familiarity
with the lives of persons with disabilities,
because this tends to increase one's comfort.
When it is understood that the majority of
persons with disabilities rate their lives as being
as high in satisfaction as does the general population,
the tendency toward pity and avoidance
is diminished (Marshak &amp; Seligman, 1993). For
those with disabilities, life is often reported as
"more difficult"; however, it is important to
note that this does not necessarily preclude life
as being very satisfying. Contact in real life is
clearly the best educator. However, if this is not
feasible, familiarity can also be gained through
reading autobiographies of persons with disabilities.
Another method is to try to sweep away
preconceived notions by being aware of one's
stereotypes and by focusing on the individual,
not the disability. By using these strategies,
stereotyped thinking will diminish. Group
leaders should ensure that the member with a
disability is not marginalized in the group. The
best way to accomplish this is to be aware of
one's prejudices, be conversant with the disability
literature on stigma, read about persons with
disabilities, and become more comfortable with
this minority population through direct contact.


PRACTICAL CONSIDERATIONS


Some practical considerations are necessary to
consider when accommodating members with a
chronic illness or disability in groups. Patterson,
McKenzie, and Jenkins (1995) provide one of
several sources of information on this topic.
Their discussion includes specific guidelines
that are important to follow but cannot be
covered in depth here. Their recommendations
include remembering when having a dialogue
with someone who uses a wheelchair to take a
seated position and to proceed on eye level. This
is important because of the perception of being
"talked down to," a common experience in the
lives of person with mobility impairments.
Understanding common principles for communicating
with someone with a hearing impairment
is necessary. Some of these principles
include speaking without exaggerated tones and
remembering that persons who lip-read need an
unobstructed view; this requires others to be
careful not to place their hands in front of their
lips and to be aware of matters such as lighting
and glare from windows. Accommodating a
person with blindness requires other accommodations,
such as making such group members
identify themselves when speaking (as necessary)
and simple mobility assistance. Mobility
assistance generally takes the form of letting a
blind person take another person's arm or elbow
for guidance. The counselor can serve as a role
model so that other members know more about
these procedures, as well as to increase their
comfort level with persons with disabilities.
Ignorance of what to do breeds much of the
discomfort in group members.


CONSIDERATIONS REGARDING
GROUP COMPOSITION


As noted earlier, one of the most important considerations
for a discussion on group work and
disability is the question of heterogeneous versus
homogenous group placement. The benefits
available to the individual with a disability
through participation in counseling and support
groups differ depending on whether the group
composition is heterogeneous or homogenous
with respect to disability. However, a review of
the literature on group counseling and disability
(as well as our experience in the field) makes it
clear that the initial professional reaction is to
assume that it is best to place persons with

[p. <i>250</i>]

The appropriateness of disability-specific or disability-
focused groups for individuals with disabilities
who are addressing adjustment issues related
to their disability is not disputed; however, it is
important to remember that disability represents
only one facet of any person. Individuals with disabilities
also represent cultural diversity. There are
individuals with disabilities who are incest survivors,
older adults, and children whose parents
have alcohol or substance abuse issues. People
with and without disabilities have interpersonal,
marital, career, social, and transition concerns that
can be addressed in a group setting, (p. 76)


As has been discussed in this chapter, great
benefits can be available through homogenous
groups; however, this should be an <i>option</i>, not
an automatic practice. Brown (1995) sheds light
on routinely including persons with disabilities
in groups composed primarily of persons without
disabilities. Raising the interesting observation
that the general exclusion of persons with
disabilities in traditional therapy groups reflects
society's general reactions to persons with
disabilities, she wrote,


Group work, as a microcosm of society, provides
a place where the richness of democracy is represented
and the evolution of civil rights has been
demonstrated. In recent years, group workers have
given a great deal of attention to the inclusion of
members of both sexes as well as those of a different
race, color, ethnicity, and national origin.
Additionally, we have examined the use of group
work with homogenous groups of members with a
specific disability. Little attention has been given
to the inclusion of people with disabilities into the
mainstream of group work. Group work seems to
reflect society's neglect of including persons with
disabilities into the mainstream of the workforce.
(Brown, 1995, p. 71)


A final yet provocative thought on the issue
of inclusion of persons with disabilities into
heterogeneous groups can be found in Brown's
observations on the legal aspects of inclusion:
"A disability cannot be used as the sole criterion
for exclusion from group work" (p. 73).


A second major consideration regarding
group composition pertains to gender. As
described by Tepper (1999), disability "is experienced
in the context of gender" (p. 37); for this
reason, same-sex group composition may sometimes
prove to be advantageous. One aspect of
the interface between disability and gender is
well illustrated by Tepper:


Men arrive at rehabilitation with all the baggage
society, culture, the media, parents, friends, and
religion packed for us. We were socialized to be
strong and self-reliant, successful, manly and sexual
performers. We learned the same myths and
fantasy model of sex as our peers. What happens
when we are faced with the loss of strength and
self-reliance, loss of sexual prowess, and loss of
success? (p. 45)


There is little written in the professional
literature about group work for men with
physical disabilities and illnesses; however, the
potential benefits should not be overlooked. It
counteracts the tendency of men in rehabilitation
to attempt to try to go through the rehabilitation
process on their own, in a silent, stoic
manner, without expressing their feelings or
fears (Tepper, 1999). The group setting can provide
access to role models of men with disabilities
who have been successful in establishing
and maintaining positive self-images that incorporate
their disabilities, masculinity, and
sexuality.


About 20 years ago, Kriegsman and Celotta
(1981) described the use of group counseling
for women with disabilities; there have been
few similar discussions in the literature since
that time. Kriegsman and Celotta noted that
their groups were very diverse in terms of types
of disabilities, marital status, socioeconomic
status, age, and vocational status, yet they found
"the common threads of womanhood and general
feelings about disability" bound the groups
together (p. 37). Similarly to men with disabilities,
women experience difficulties stemming
from sex role expectations that permit little
deviation from that role. In addition, they often

[p. <i>251</i>]

CONCLUSION


In this chapter, we have endeavored to comment
on a number of issues pertaining to group work
with persons who have chronic illnesses or disabilities.
It is evident that groups add an important
and, in some cases, essential intervention to
the variety of medical and psychosocial services
currently offered. The anxieties and sometimes
dramatic alterations attendant to the disability
experience can at least in part be ameliorated
through supportive, informative, and emotionally
therapeutic groups. For persons who are ill
or disabled, group counseling has become a
powerful tool in helping the rehabilitative
process.


NOTE


REFERENCES


Abbey, S., &amp; Farrow, S. (1998). Group therapy and
organ transplantation. <i>International Journal of
Group Psychotherapy, 48</i>, 2, 163-185.


Barlow, S. H., Burlingame, G. M., Nebeker, R. S., &amp;
Anderson, E. (2000). Meta-analysis of medical
self help groups. <i>Internationaljournal of Group
Psychotherapy, 50</i>, 53-69.


Brown, B. (1995). Group process considerations for
inclusion of people with disabilities in group
work <i>The Journal for Specialists in Group
Work, 20</i>, 76-82.


Ciechoski, M. A. (2000). Sharing the experience
of ALS: Patient and family support groups. In
H. Mitsumoto and T. L. Munsat (Eds.),
<i>Amyotropic lateral sclerosis: A guide for patients
and families</i> (pp. 261-268). New York: Demos.


Coleman, L. M. (1977). Stigma. An enigma
demystified. In L. J. Davis (Ed.), <i>The disability
studies reader</i> (pp. 216-231). New York:
Routledge.


Davis, F. (1972). Deviance disavowal: The management
of strained interaction by the visibly handicapped.
In F. Davis (Ed.), <i>Illness, interaction,
and the self</i> (pp. 133-149). Belmont, CA:
Wadsworth.


Elston, R., &amp; Snow, B. (1986). Attitudes toward
people with disabilities as expressed by rehabilitation
professionals. <i>Rehabilitation Counseling
Bulletin, 6</i>, 284-286.


Falvo, D. R. (1999). <i>Medical and psychosocial
aspects of chronic illness and disability</i>.
Gaithersburg, MD: Aspen.


Freund, P. E. S., &amp; McGuire, M. B. (1999). <i>Health,
illness and social body</i> (3rd ed.). Upper Saddle
River, NJ: Prentice Hall.


Fuhriman, A., &amp; Burlingame, G. M. (1994).
<i>Handbook of group psychotherapy</i>. New York:
John Wiley.


Furst, W. (1960). Homogeneous versus heterogeneous
groups. <i>Topical Problems in Psychotherapy,
2</i>, 170-173.


Goodheart, C. D., &amp; Lansing, M. H. (1997). <i>Treating
people with chronic disease</i>. Washington, DC:
American Psychological Association.


Goodman, G., &amp; Jacobs, M. K. (1994). The self-
help, mutual support group. In A. Fuhriman &amp;
G. M. Burlingame (Eds.), <i>Handbook of group
psychotherapy</i> (pp. 489-526). New York: John
Wiley.


Halstead, L. S., &amp; Halstead, K. (1983). Disability
SAR's and the small group experience: A conceptual
framework. <i>Sexuality and Disability, 6</i>,
183-196.


Hastorf, A. H., Northcraft, G. B., &amp; Picciotto, S. R.
(1979). Helping the handicapped: How realistic
is the performance feedback received by the
physically handicapped? <i>Personality &amp; Social
Psychology Bulletin, 5</i>, 373-376.

[p. <i>252</i>]

Jacobs, E. E., Harvill, R. L., &amp; Massen, R. L. (1988).
<i>Group counseling: Strategies and skills</i>. Pacific
Grove, PA: Brooks/Cole.


Johnson, C. L., &amp; Johnson, J. A. (1991). Using short-term
group counseling with visually impaired
adolescents. <i>Journal of Visual Impairment and
Blindness, 85</i>, 166-170.


Kleck, R., Ono, H., &amp; Hastorf, A. H. (1966). Effects
of physical deviancy upon faceútoúface interactions.
<i>Human Relations, 19</i>, 425-436.


Kriegsman, K. H., &amp; Celotta, B. (1981). A program
of group counseling for women with physical
disabilities. <i>Journal of Rehabilitation, 43</i>(7),
36-39.


Lieberman, M. (1990). A group therapist's perspective
on self help groups. In M. Seligman &amp; L. E.
Marshak (Eds.), <i>Group psychotherapy: Interventions
with special populations</i> (pp. 1-18).
Boston: Allyn &amp; Bacon.


Marshak, L. E., &amp; Seligman, M. (1993). <i>Counseling
persons with disabilities: Theoretical and clinical
perspectives</i> (pp. 185-213). Austin, TX: Pro-Ed.


Patterson, J. B., McKenzie, B., &amp; Jenkins, J. (1995).
Creating accessible groups for individuals with
disabilities. <i>The Journal for Specialists in Group
Work, 20</i>, 76-82.


Pollin, I. (1995). <i>Medical crisis counseling</i>. New
York: Norton.


Prati, J. H. (1907). The class method of treating consumption
in the homes of the poor. <i>JAMA, 49</i>,
755-759.


Rolland, J. S. (1994). <i>Families, illness, and disability</i>.
New York: Basic Books.


Rose, J., West, C., &amp; Clifford, D. (May-June, 2000).
Group interventions for anger in people with
intellectual disabilities. <i>Research in Developmental
Disabilities, 21</i>, 171-181.


Rothenberg, E. D. (1994). Bereavement interventions
with vulnerable populations. <i>Social Work With
Groups, 17</i>, 61-75.


Safilos-Rothschild, C. (1970). <i>The sociology and
social psychology of disability and rehabilitation</i>.
New York: Random House.


Seligman, M, &amp; Marshak, L. E. (1990). (Eds.).
<i>Group psychotherapy: Intervention with special
populations</i>. Boston: Allyn &amp; Bacon.


Siller, J. (1976). Attitudes towards disability. In
H. Rusalem &amp; D. Malikin (Eds.), <i>Contemporary
vocational rehabilitation</i> (pp. 67-68). New
York: University Park Press.


Spira, J. L. (1997). <i>Group therapy for medically ill
patients</i>. New York: Guilford.


Spitz, H. I., &amp; Spitz, S. T. (1999). <i>A pragmatic
approach to group psychotherapy</i>. Philadelphia:
Brunner/Mazel.


Stein, S. M. (1996). Group psychotherapy and
patients with cognitive impairment. <i>Journal of
Developmental and Physical Disabilities, 8</i>,
263-273.


Tepper, M. S. (1999). Letting go of restrictive notions of
manhood: Male sexuality, disability and chronic
illness. <i>Sexuality and Disability, 17</i>, 37-51.


Tomasulo, D. J., Keller, E., &amp; Pfadt, A. (1995,
May/June). The healing crowd: Process, content,
and technique issues in group counseling for
people with mental retardation. <i>The Habilitative
Mental Healthcare Newsletter, 14</i>(3), 1-9.


Wright, B. A. (1988). Attitudes and the fundamental
negative bias: Conditions and correction. In
H. E. Yuker (Ed.), <i>Attitudes toward persons with
disabilities</i> (pp. 3-21). New York: Springer.


Yalom, I. D. (1995). <i>The theory and practice of group
psychotherapy</i> (4th ed.). New York: Basic
Books.

