Transcript of Audio File:
______________________________________________________________________________
BEGIN TRANSCRIPT:
THERAPIST: Okay. It's nice to sit in quiet.
CLIENT: So. Babies are hard.
THERAPIST: Yes, as it turns out.
CLIENT: (laughing) As it turns out. I knew — yeah.
THERAPIST: You had a 1-year-old in your apartment all weekend, is that the deal?
CLIENT: Yeah. And she's at the stage where she's very, very clingy with Heather Kate. Because — I didn't mess with it because she's in a different environment. So Heather will put her on the floor so that she can put her clothes on, and she'll scream. And it's like aaahhh. It's actually very funny because she's a great kid. And when she's crying or pseudo-tantrum, she's just collapsing on the floor.
THERAPIST: (laughing)
CLIENT: I'm like, "You know, I wish I could do that. I know how you feel Violet."
[00:01:07]
It's actually — it's turned out to be kind of a stressful weekend. My roommate has to have a colonoscopy tomorrow, so tonight she has to get ready for that. So trying to like balance — and Heather is staying until tomorrow, so trying to balance how to — if Kirsten wasn't around and both trying to work and trying to get ready for this procedure that she's really scared about. She thinks she might have cancer, and she doesn't have — there's a whole bunch of scary things that could be the case.
And so I'm trying to take care of her, and if she weren't there I'd be like, "Yeah, just let Violet cry. I don't care..."
THERAPIST: Right
[00:01:54]
CLIENT: "If she's fussy, let her be fussy." But we can't really do that. And then Kirsten's friend Casey is here also to kind of take care of Kirsten. So the timing turned out to kind of suck. Heather is wonderful. (pause) She's just very, very understanding.
Yesterday I was just anxious and tense and stressed out by the end of the day. And this morning she kind of saw that I still was not doing so well, and she was like, "What can I do?" I said, "Well, I'm worried about taking care of Kirsten tonight with Violet." And she's like, "Here's what we're going to do."
She's got an appointment to have lunch with a friend in the square like now-ish. So she's like, "What we're going to do is take Violet out, and then we're going to go out to dinner. And we're just going to like stay out until she falls asleep, and stay out really late. And that's what we'll do. And by the time she gets back, she'll be dead."
[00:03:10]
THERAPIST: Yes.
CLIENT: So she was just like, "Okay. Here's the plan. We can deal with this," very matter of fact.
THERAPIST: Mm-hmm
CLIENT: (pause) Yeah. So I'm really happy she's here, and I'm really happy to see her. But it's also hard. (pause).
It's nice to see her happy though. She was so hard on herself when we were friends in high school. And I didn't — I think neither of us really realized how miserable we were because we didn't realize that there were other ways to be than just like grinding yourself into the dust every minute of every day. But — yeah — she's just — she started taking care of herself, and it's really nice to see.
THERAPIST: Mm-hmm
[00:04:21]
CLIENT: And she's always been this incredibly generous-hearted person who — I don't know. She's just fantastic. It's nice to be with her (pause) I'm a little jealous.
THERAPIST: Yeah.
CLIENT: Not like (pause) I don't really have reason to be jealous because she — her life is hard. But the first medication she tried made a huge difference. She takes Prozac and it works — and it just works, and that's all there is to it. (chuckles) (pause)
Just — it was like — once she — it took her 10 or 12 years to kind of reach the breaking point where she was like, "I really have to deal with this depression, eating disorder, all of this mess."
[00:05:30]
THERAPIST: What sort of eating disorder was it?
CLIENT: Anorexia and bulimia.
THERAPIST: Yeah. Oh.
CLIENT: She was bulimic when we were in high school, which I didn't know about until later. But even when I knew about it, I didn't say anything to people, which I was guilty of that for years and years and years. It's taken me a long time to realize I could not have saved her. I just couldn't have done it.
She had other people who told other people about it, and her mother also has an eating disorder, so she basically has had to really limit contact with like, how much time she spends in the same house as her mom because it just puts her back there. (pause) Then it's like — she has a lot of the same issues that I do. The eating disorder is kind of symptomatic of some of those same issues of not being able to take care of herself instead of taking care of other people.
[00:06:39]
Once she was just like, "No. I'm done with this. We're going to fix this," she worked her ass off for a year in therapy, and she's just so much better.
THERAPIST: Uh-huh.
CLIENT: It's not gone. It's not ever going to be gone. But it — I don't know. (pause) I don't know why I can't do that. (pause) Why I have not done that yet. But it feels like I can't. (pause) (sigh)
Babies kind of put things in perspective in terms of, I really just want people to take care of me right now. I just really want that. But it's like, "Do you know what? The baby trumps your need." That's just all there is to it. One-year-olds, you just take care of the baby. That's what you have to do.
[00:07:49]
Which (sigh) I don't know how I feel about that. (pause) I'm glad I don't have a baby. (laughing) I'm glad I'm not pregnant.
THERAPIST: Mm-hmm
CLIENT: Scared about having kids. Yeah, Heather's also great because she's not very sentimental at all. So she's both — she's very upfront about both saying — like she really wanted this kid. She had two miscarriages before she had Violet.
THERAPIST: uh-huh.
CLIENT: They were both incredibly hard for her. She's both like, "This is the greatest thing that has ever happened to me, the best thing in my life, the person I love more than anybody else. I love her more everyday and am so happy. And my God, she's a pain in the ass." (laughing)
THERAPIST: (chuckling)
CLIENT: I'm just like, "Heather, I'm proud about both of those things." (laughing) It's very refreshing. Particularly because my sisters-in-law can't really — they are not willing to say the "My God, she's a pain in the ass" part about their children
[00:09:25]
THERAPIST: Yeah.
CLIENT: It's kind of like everybody has to bow down at the baby altar, sort of thing. And I do. I like babies. And I'm pretty good with them. I like babies in the way that I like other people. I like some babies more than others. But I get along with most people like I get along with most babies.
THERAPIST: Yeah.
CLIENT: (pause) But Heather Kate isn't offended when I compare training Violet to training my dog. (laughing) She's like, "Yes, they are basically dogs."
THERAPIST: (laughing) Uh-huh.
CLIENT: She has dogs, so she also is like — she is the crazy dog person. They are her family.
THERAPIST: I see.
CLIENT: But, in a way that — I have never bonded with animals that way. (chuckle) It's nice.
[00:10:25]
THERAPIST: Yeah.
CLIENT: But it's just exhausting. She didn't sleep well last night, so I didn't sleep well last night.
THERAPIST: They're totally demanding. Yeah.
CLIENT: Yeah. (pause) I was talking with Heather on the train ride over about work and graduate school. She started her Ph.D. program either a year before me, no in the same year that I started my master's program. She mastered out. She did two years of it and was like, "Fuck this. I'm done." She doesn't like research. She doesn't like writing papers. She doesn't want it.
THERAPIST: What was she in for?
[00:11:12]
CLIENT: Classics.
THERAPIST: Mm-hmm
CLIENT: So she got a master's degree, and is teaching high school now, loves it and is super happy doing that. We were kind of talking about the (exhale) different options, different challenges of graduate school, and she was like, "I just didn't like writing papers." And I was like, "See that's the difference between you and me. I really like writing papers." The only thing I'm really hanging onto this year is that I really want to give this paper at the SBL (ph? [00:11:47]). I really want to be in shape to write the paper and give it because I'm excited about the idea.
THERAPIST: Yeah.
CLIENT: As we got off the train, she was like, "You know, you have seemed happier talking about your work than I have seen you all weekend." (pause)
[00:12:06]
(crying) I didn't know I was going to cry there. (pause) I want to be well enough to go back to work.
THERAPIST: Yeah.
CLIENT: (pause) I've been thinking a lot about just saying, "Fuck this," and leaving school and teaching. (crying) I don't know. But yeah, I do love research.
THERAPIST: Yes.
CLIENT: (crying) I just want to be well enough to do any of the things that give me joy.
THERAPIST: Yes.
CLIENT: And I'm not. (pause/crying) I hate how selfish depression makes me. I hate it so much. I can't (pause) I can't think outside myself anymore.
[00:13:41]
THERAPIST: Uh-huh.
CLIENT: It's my birthday today.
THERAPIST: Happy birthday.
CLIENT: Thanks. I almost didn't pick up the phone when my dad called to wish me happy birthday because I just didn't want to talk to anybody. (crying) I hate that. (pause)
You know, here I have one friend who is terrified of having this gross and uncomfortable, scary medical procedure and needs to be comfortable and safe and watch stupid movies and relax. And I have another friend who just finished her first year of teaching, having a baby and having marital problems. (pause) I think Heather Kate and Diego are going to be fine ultimately, but he is being kind of a dick right now.
[00:14:56]
THERAPIST: Mm-hmm
CLIENT: And I hate that I can't think about — I hate that I resent them for having these problems. Not problems, but having these other issues. Because all I want to do is be quiet. (pause/crying) I feel like — it just makes me feel ugly. I'm not that happy with myself today. (crying) I hate how self-pitying I've become.
THERAPIST: Just now you were very frustrated with getting upset in thinking about not being able to work. It's something else you're just — it's one of the things you're talking about being so sick and tired of is just being uncontrollably upset.
[00:16:19]
CLIENT: Yeah. (crying)
THERAPIST: And how you'll be absorbed with it, or are being absorbed with it.
CLIENT: Yeah. And I haven't been uncontrollably upset in the last couple of days. I've kind of kept it together, but I'm probably going to pay for it tomorrow. I don't know. (pause)
I'm lucky to have somebody like Heather Kate in my life. I'm just thinking of it — it's like, "Yeah, I have an appointment at 12:30. Is it okay if we go to square, try to get there at like 11:30, and split up so I have some time to myself before the appointment?" She's like, "Yeah. Yeah. Absolutely, yes. You need to have time by yourself before you have therapy. No question."
[00:17:23]
(pause) And then she's probably not going to be done until 3:00 or so. I've got some time to relax, call James, maybe apply for a job, that kind of thing. (pause)
She's having lunch with a girl who went to high school with me, who has been living in the area and, I think, working for the university for the last two years. I ran into her — and we were friendly in high school — but I ran into her once right after I moved here, and we not been in touch since. And so I was like, "Can you just not tell her that I'm in the square today?" And she's like, "Yes. " (laughing)
THERAPIST: (chuckling)
[00:19:01]
CLIENT: I like Karen fine, I would be very happy to have lunch with her, not today. It's hard for me to remember, she could have called me as well as I could have called her (laughing). I have to keep that in mind.
THERAPIST: Yes.
CLIENT: (long pause) [00:19:58]
I get tired so fast. Just being around other people, I get tired really fast. By like 2:00 yesterday afternoon I was like, "I need a nap." (laughing)
THERAPIST: Mm-hmm
CLIENT: The baby took a nap. The parents took a nap. I took a nap. (laughing)
THERAPIST: Uh-huh.
CLIENT: That was really important. All we've done is - I'd said I wanted to go to church, and so we've gone downtown. The original plan was to go to the morning service because they have a nursery, and we could put Violet in the nursery and Heather could go to church. Then she was just like, "You know, I'm going just walk around."
So she walked out on the commons. And Violet — it's very funny. She doesn't like — when she sees something that she's interested in, she just points at it. She's just like, "Ooh dog," "Ooh, other baby," but sometimes she's just pointing, and you can't tell where she's looking at.
[00:21:04]
THERAPIST: Mm-hmm
CLIENT: So they hung out on the commons for a little bit, then I came in and hung out with them some. Then we went back home, and I was so tired I was about to cry. (laughing)
THERAPIST: Yeah.
CLIENT: (pause) Yeah. (pause)
THERAPIST: What do you anticipate about tomorrow?
CLIENT: (pause) Heather is going to leave in the morning, hopefully after rush hour. I don't know when rush hour even ends, so I don't when the best time for her to leave would be. (pause)
And then I expect that (pause) I will just be (pause) I don't — because like there's always a different trigger, but I expect that I will spend several hours crying. That's probably what's going to happen. Because it's going to be - it's going to be tired and pent up. I'm feeling much better this morning than I was yesterday afternoon. But still. (pause)
[00:22:37]
I don't know. Maybe it won't happen. Maybe I'll be fine. Sometimes I am after the first (ph? [00:22:58]). (pause)
James and I are trying to go on a vacation. I don't know if I told you this, but this year, instead of going on either of our family vacations, we're just going to go on a vacation together. But then looking at schedules and thinking about me looking for a job and stuff, we're trying to go on a vacation the weekend of the 18th. So I think James is doing most of the heavy lifting for planning, but we've got to get that together.
THERAPIST: The 18th of...
CLIENT: Of June. (laughing) So I'll probably be gone that week. (laughing). We're just going to rent a cabin by a lake and do some hiking...
THERAPIST: Mm-hmm
CLIENT: ...and ignore everybody for a while.
THERAPIST: Yeah. That's good.
CLIENT: (laughing) That's my kind of vacation. I'm really excited about it, but there's more to plan. Yeah. (pause)
[00:24:07]
Yeah. I'm thinking about apartments and jobs and what am I going to deal with the end of August? (pause) I don't know. I don't know how I'm going to afford an apartment anywhere really, or how I'm going to afford a single place. I really don't want to rent a room with other people, but it might come to that. It might just be what I need to do. (pause)
It's a kind of task that I run into a lot that it seems just completely impossible. I have no idea how this is going to get done, renting an apartment and finding a job. I have no idea how I am going to be able to do this. But every other time — it always gets done... somehow. Usually these things happen. (pause)
[00:25:49]
In grad school, there's basically a point every semester where I think, "I'm going to fail. This is the end. I am going to fail every class, and they're going to kick me out."
THERAPIST: Right.
CLIENT: But everything gets done somehow. (pause) Things just keep going.
THERAPIST: Mm-hmm
CLIENT: I wish they would not.
THERAPIST: What do you mean when you say things just keep going?
CLIENT: Oh just — you know you climb one mountain. Then go down, and then there's another one. All of the things you dread. They happen, or they don't happen. You know, (pause) like I always think I'm going to fail out, but I get all my papers written and the semester ends, and then I go on to the next thing. (pause)
[00:27:10]
THERAPIST: I think (pause) as much, it's hard for you to speak up for — I think that's half the story?
CLIENT: What do you mean?
THERAPIST: Like you feel like a total wreck, and I think there's some part of you inside that's screaming and upset a lot of the time.
CLIENT: Yeah...
THERAPIST: And...
CLIENT: Because it doesn't matter how much that part screams, I still have shit to do. (crying) Things don't go away. The world doesn't care how upset I am.
THERAPIST: Mmm. Well that makes it worse.
CLIENT: (crying) Yeah.
THERAPIST: Quite a lot worse I think.
CLIENT: Yeah. (pause)
THERAPIST: I don't think that part cares a whole lot about what's going on in the world either.
CLIENT: I'm sorry?
THERAPIST: I don't think that part cares what's going on in the world either.
CLIENT: (laughing) No. I can't read the news. I haven't been able to for a couple of years now. (pause) I think the world is coming to an end. (laughing) It stresses me out too much. I just can't deal with it. And then well-meaning people say that it's the responsibility of every citizen to be up-to-date on the news and stuff. Fuck you. (laughing)
THERAPIST: Mm-hmm
CLIENT: Sorry I just can't care. Because I can't do it right now. (pause)
THERAPIST: Which (pause) to my mind is not just about you feeling so upset and alone or even upset by the news to be able to read it. I think it may be also (pause) "You fuckers don't care about me? I don't give a fuck about you."
CLIENT: I don't feel that much.
THERAPIST: Okay
[00:30:03]
CLIENT: It's more — it's just, "Let's add 50 more insolvable problems on to the things that I feel responsible for."
THERAPIST: I see.
CLIENT: Yeah. (pause) This year as a new year's resolution I decided I was not going to buy any new clothes this year. I was going to either make them or buy them in a thrift store, because all of my clothes are made by slaves. And I can't do anything about that. Even doing what I am doing, it's like, "Well, now the fabric you buy is made by slaves." (laughing)
THERAPIST: Mm-hmm
[00:30:51]
CLIENT: And I can't do anything about that. (pause) It's like it's only possible for me to maintain the fiction that I have any control over my own life when I don't read the news. (laughing)
THERAPIST: Mm-hmm. I see. It's more like it makes you feel more overwhelmed and more helpless and more sort of beset, in a way.
CLIENT: Yeah. (pause) But it's like when I stop and I listen to the part of me that is despairing and upset and angry and crying, (sigh) stuff doesn't get done. You know? (crying/pause) I don't feel myself becoming any less upset or angry or despairing, it's just that (pause)...
THERAPIST: It's like sometimes you put me in the position of speaking up for that part.
CLIENT: Probably yeah. It's like all of that kind of is the framework .That's there and I know it's there. And it kind of goes without saying, but I can't pay very much attention to it. (pause) Or I will never find an apartment, and I will starve to death. (pause)
[00:33:40]
It's not like — you seem to think that matters. And I believe you. But I have trouble maintaining that belief when you're not in the room.
THERAPIST: I see.
CLIENT: (laughing)
THERAPIST: Like you don't think that part of you matters?
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: And when you're here, you'll entertain the idea kind of, but otherwise you don't really feel like it does.
CLIENT: I don't feel like I can afford to let it matter. Yeah. (pause) (sigh/sniffling) Unfortunately, it matters whether I like it or not, evidenced by the fact that I cannot work. (laughing).
THERAPIST: Yeah.
[00:35:00]
CLIENT: But you know, just saying, "Okay, that's fair. That's fine. I'm going to go about my business anyway," has sort of worked, most of the time, for so long that I don't know what else to do. (pause)
THERAPIST: I was just struck by the parallel of Heather Kate in that (pause) it must feel like (pause) sometimes she can take care of the kid, and you can't.
She decided she was going to focus on this, it took a year. She got better. Things worked. Now she has an interesting new 1-year-old. It's working. Yes, it drives her crazy, but she enjoys it, can be there for it and take care of it. And you feel like you can't take care of what's inside you because it will totally take over your life.
[00:37:01]
CLIENT: Yeah. I mean I feel like has hijacked my life.
THERAPIST: Right.
CLIENT: (pause) And that I (pause) you know, I'm working pretty hard. And that anything that I can think of to do, I'll try to do. But I don't know how — I don't know how to get past this. I don't know how to get better. (pause) Yeah. I would like to be at a place in my life where I could — yeah — where I could have a child, where I could have a job or a career, rather. Where I could ...
THERAPIST: I think your point is that you're sort of getting the worst of both here. You feel like you both can't take care of how you feel in a lot of ways because it will completely take over everything else, and at the same time it already has kind of taken over.
[00:38:29]
CLIENT: Yeah. Yeah.
THERAPIST: At the same time.
CLIENT: Yeah, and it's like the very small things that I'm trying to do for myself right now that I have to do. I have to find a place to live. I have to find a job. I have to be with people in a good way. I have to eat. I feel like even those things I'm not going to be able — I can't do if I pay attention to the part of me that's really sad (crying). (pause) Yeah. Yeah. (pause/crying)
THERAPIST: It occurs to me that maybe, as with me, you try to relieve that part with other people in your life to take care of and then feel terribly guilty about it.
[00:39:58]
CLIENT: How do you mean? (crying)
THERAPIST: Well, like I was thinking a minute ago, "Gosh it seems like you kind of put me in a position of sort of speaking up, cheerleading or something for that part." And (pause) because you're saying, "Well, yes. It's too much for me if I do that I can't do the other things I need to physically take care of myself in my life — like a job, where to live, stuff like that."
And what I'm saying is (pause) in the ways that I think, like that, you put that part of yourself in my hands or to some extent and other extents other people you're close to within your life
[00:41:10]
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: I think you then feel really guilty about having done that, unconsciously.
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: You feel that you're burdening them with something that you can't bear to deal with. I'm not saying you are. I could just imagine this is part of what (pause)...
It seems that something that is mysterious that happens with you is how incredibly guilty you feel and burdensome to the people around you?
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: And I guess I'm wondering if this is some of why. Because you feel like you sort of split things [inaudible 00:41:54]. And you're like, I'm going to make you sound more thematic (ph? [00:41:59]) than it is, but you're like, "Okay, you focus on how upset I am. I'm going to focus on the things I need to do. And I'm going to feel horribly guilty because I'm giving you the things to pay attention to that I cannot deal with."
[00:42:15]
CLIENT: Yeah. It's more like I will say, "Okay. Here is my sadness. But if I'm going to give this to you, then I have to take care of you while you have it."
THERAPIST: I see.
CLIENT: You know, (pause) I kind of asked my friend just to come take care of me for a couple of days.
THERAPIST: Mm-hmm
CLIENT: But now that she's here, I want to take care of her more than ever.
THERAPIST: Mm-hmm
CLIENT: With James, I spend time with James actually being sad, which I don't really with anybody else.
THERAPIST: Mm-hmm
CLIENT: But (pause) I keep wanting to say, "I'm so sorry that this is so hard for you." I want to take care of him because "It must be so hard for you to hear this from me. It's so hard for you that this is hard for me." (pause)
[00:43:23]
THERAPIST: Right. So I'm saying your fantasy of how hard it is for him, I'm not saying it's not in reality in some way hard. I don't actually know how hard it is for him. But I think you're — you calibrate that partly based on how hard it is for you.
CLIENT: Yeah. We talked about that more explicitly last night or the night before last. And I think that was good because he has said a couple of times, "Yeah. It's hard for me to deal with you being depressed." And so the fact that I now apologize all the time, he thought that was coming from him. I was like, "No, no, no that's all me." (laughing)
THERAPIST: Yeah.
CLIENT: It is. It's hard. He just will always say, "Yeah it's hard for me to hear, but it's not as hard as it is for you to live with it," which I hear. (pause).
THERAPIST: But you don't — I think you have the fantasy that you are giving it to him to some extent to deal with in being sad around him. I guess that — I don't know. If you know what I mean.
CLIENT: Wishing he could take it away. Yeah.
THERAPIST: The metaphor I'm thinking of is that you have a baby that you feel like you can't deal with at all because you have too much other stuff to deal with.
I actually wonder if there's some historical precedent for you in your life, with your parents, where they were at when you were little, though I'm purely speculating about that. Actually, that's not true based on things I know, like your mother's mental health and things like that, that there's something really terrifying for her about all this anyway.
The part I'm thinking about in my head is you feel like you kind of hand off the baby to some extent, and then feel really guilty about foisting on other people something that you feel like you really can't deal with.
[00:45:27]
CLIENT: That makes sense. I don't feel guilty about foisting it on you because you don't have to have this job. (laughing)
THERAPIST: (chuckling) That's true. Sure.
CLIENT: (laughing) Clearly you want to be here. So... yeah.
THERAPIST: We're up. (ph? [00:45:49])
END TRANSCRIPT
