TRANSCRIPT OF AUDIO FILE:
______________________________________________________________________________
<b>BEGIN TRANSCRIPT:</b>
[00:00:36]
THERAPIST: Hi.
CLIENT: How are you?
THERAPIST: Good. Thank you.
CLIENT: Things are going okay.
THERAPIST: Yeah?
CLIENT: Yeah. Test is over with.
THERAPIST: Mm-hmm.
CLIENT: Which is good.
THERAPIST: Mm-hmm.
CLIENT: You know, I feel fairly confident that I did well, I did the best that I could. The only thing that I was, you know, kind of stressed about now, thinking about it, was the material. Just like the question kind of threw me off. Like, my subject knowledge and what I prepared. So, little nervous about that, but I know like one of my main parts were like, you know, fail to–to do well before, I think I did really well on that section, which is good.
[00:01:20]
We'll see. I get those results in a couple of weeks. So, we'll move from there. And then, yeah. Things are going really well between me and my girlfriend. You know, it's actually really funny because my parents–had this conversation with them because I've been spending a lot more time at my girlfriend's place now. And at home, too. But they're just like–it's like you never moved out like every time you know, you're around, you're always up there doing stuff, and I'm just like well...
You know, ideally, it's where I want to be, but you know, right now, it's just tough. You know, when I know her and I are working on our things. Our own personal issues that we're, you know, trying to, you know, find our [inaudible 0:02:05], and you know, it's going to take some time.
[00:02:09]
You know, it's only been since, like, November or October–November, you know, that we had our little separation. But you know, in all honesty, I think it's, you know, brought us even closer together. I mean, even that time away that we spent, it's just, you know, it's been time away. You know, I mean, this weekend we're going away skiing. And you know, in a way, I'm a little nervous, but I'm like, you know, very excited to go and just get some alone time with her. So, you know, we'll see where that goes. [inaudible 0:02:45]. Again, this is still kind of like we're, well, you know, in our relationship from the bottom-up. Trying to take it slow. You know, just doing fun stuff together, you know, we do have a long history of being together.
THERAPIST: How long have you been with her?
CLIENT: Uh, we've been together four years.
[00:03:06]
THERAPIST: Okay.
CLIENT: So, yeah. It's amazing. I can't–I can't even believe it's been four years, I don't even know where the time, but it's just, you know, I–and it's just good because there's a lot of–a lot of positives going on. You know, right now. In my head. You know? And people surrounding me, which is fine. You know, it's good.
You know, I haven't felt this way in–in a long time. You know, I–you know, my mind's, you know, mostly at peace. You know, I still got the everyday stresses going on, but you know, I'm mostly at peace. I don't see myself, you know, getting as angry anymore as I once was. So, that's a real big positive is that I am–and I can see it in myself, and [inaudible 0:03:58] say what I just–I don't get as excited anymore, emotional.
[00:04:05]
You know, I mean, there's just times where I do zone out stuff, but I don't [inaudible 0:04:09]. But it is what it is. It's actually really funny, I got a text yesterday from my roommate from college, and he lives in Texas. He was asking me all these questions and stuff like that. It was–you know, just catching up, and then I told him, you know, I was trying to get back on a diet and lose some weight. And then, joking like he went, you should go back on the coke diet. And I was like yeah, not going down that road again.
Which kind of brought back some tough memories. And then, I was with someone last night, I was hanging out with one of my buddies. And I didn't know he was with–you know, I was with my buddy and we went to one of his friend's house, and someone asked, you know, oh, do you do coke? And I just felt really uncomfortable.
[00:05:07]
Started getting anxiety, and like, you know, heart started racing. I didn't really know what to do, you know, I just asked him for a cigarette and went outside, and just tried to gather my thoughts and calm down. Then, I went back in and told him I was leaving just because I didn't want to put myself in that situation about doing that, and someone who's–you know, I can say is recovered and is working on his recovery from drugs again. To have [clears throat] two mentions of cocaine in less than six hours is–was really traumatic. And I kind of didn't know how to handle the situation. I don't know, I started getting the fears again.
[00:06:05]
You know, I had trouble sleeping last night, you know, thinking about my heart again, you know, what was going on and I still have those fears, you know. Just the thought of how I felt that day. You know, really, really bothers me. I mean, there's nights where I just can't sleep, I'm scared to go to sleep because I don't know if I'm going to wake up. And it's like I force myself to stay awake. I wake up the next morning and I'm wicked exhausted, and then I'll sleep during the day and it's just–it's weird.
THERAPIST: Does that happen often?
CLIENT: More often than not.
THERAPIST: And since your overdose?
CLIENT: Oh yeah. I never have before when I overdosed, but after my overdose, it's been weird. Like I don't–I–I don't feel comfortable falling asleep by myself. I always think that somebody or something–you know, somebody in the room. I don't know, that's when I feel safe to just fall asleep.
THERAPIST: So, when you're not with your girlfriend, what happens?
[00:07:06]
CLIENT: I'll just sit on the couch where there's people around watching TV and I'll fall asleep there.
THERAPIST: So, do you have [inaudible 0:07:12] yourself?
CLIENT: Oh yeah.
THERAPIST: But you don't sleep there?
CLIENT: I do. I'll fall–once I fall asleep, I don't have a problem, you know, sleeping. The problem is getting to sleep. I mean, like before, like I could sleep on a picket fence, I could sleep anywhere. Now, it's just if no one's around, I don't–I don't know what it is. I just–I have trouble sleeping.
THERAPIST: So, if someone is in another room, does that help?
CLIENT: Sometimes. Even though I don't–I need someone to at least be awake before I fall asleep.
THERAPIST: Oh, I'm sorry?
CLIENT: I need someone to be awake.
THERAPIST: I see.
CLIENT: Before I fall asleep. I think that's just more comfortable for me. I don't know, it's just–it's been like that since my overdose. Where I just have trouble falling asleep. And it's been that way for a while. And it's just–it's tough. And I know I'm exhausted, but you know, it's–it's not all the time, but it's usually most of the time.
[00:08:16]
And it's just–it's frustrating. Because I do have all the confidence back in me, and all the, you know, evidence back [inaudible 0:08:27]. But it's up here that I still have the doubts. You know, since my overdose, I've been very, you know, hypochondriac about, you know, my body. Everything I think is worse. You know, and then, I constantly feel myself for lumps and all that stuff, if I got something that someone thinks looks weird, I start getting very bad anxiety, freaking out, [inaudible 0:08:58], and they tell me it's okay and it's, you know, like, I know it's okay, but I don't know it up here.
[00:09:07]
And I'm trying to find the trigger in my head to just, you know, stop hitting the–the panic button. Stop getting so anxious, you know, my health when I know I'm fine. But it's just really difficult to–I don't know what it is. It's tough. It's tough. Because there are a lot of nights where I'm like oh, I'm going to go to bed early, you know, and I'll lay down at like 7:30-8:00, next thing you know, it's 1:00 in the morning and I'm still up. When I know I have to be up at 5:00 to go to school or go to work. And it's just really–it's aggravating. It's aggravating.
You know, when I know that there's nothing wrong, but my brain just tells me that there is something wrong.
[00:10:08]
And I don't know what it is. And I don't know, I guess I'm still dealing with part of the PTS from the overdose that I thought I was able to cope with, but I think it's still lingering around. It's been around for a while.
THERAPIST: Do you think that assuming that fear if you go to sleep you will die?
CLIENT: Maybe. Yes. I know that's the way people say that they'd want to go, but I don't know. I don't know if I could do that. I mean, I've–once I fall asleep, I'm fine, but the problem I do have is getting to sleep.
THERAPIST: And do you feel anxious?
[00:10:59]
CLIENT: Yes.
THERAPIST: And what do you think about when you're anxious?
CLIENT: I think that something's wrong.
THERAPIST: With?
CLIENT: My heart. Because of what happened, and because of you know, all of the stuff that I've, you know, been through, heard about, but I mean like I said, I've had the tests that say I did no structure–structural damage to my heart. But I'm here and I think there was because I think of all the stuff that I did, and I think about, you know, the drugs that I mixed, and all of the drugs that, you know, I took. You know, all that stuff. And I'm just like there–there's no way that my heart's fine. You know, but then again, I look at these, you know, rockers that have used drugs forever, and they're still going at like, you know, 60 years old.
So, you know, I kind of just get mixed emotions, and I kind of–I try to deal with my anxiety to the best of my ability. But sometimes it just gets the best of me. And I get really, really anxious.
[00:12:14]
I mean, last night was to the point where I was just shaking, I felt like I couldn't breathe. And it was just–I was really, really nervous, and I was just like didn't know what to do. I kind of like panicked.
THERAPIST: Do you have a sense of why yesterday was worse than other times?
CLIENT: I think because I knew it was around, when I know that the drug is there, I'm very fearful of my decision making, about my willpower. To actually say no to it. To stay away.
[00:13:01]
Because, you know, I really do–I have a very addictive personality. If I like something, I don't just do it once in a while, I have to do it very often. And my fear is if I do get hooked on it again, if I did it once, I think I'd get hooked on it again. And I try to avoid it as much as possible. And it's just really–it's tough. You know, and just being like with the kids I used to hang out with, you know, it's hard to–some people I hang out with, you know, I can't hang out with these people because I'll [inaudible 0:13:42].
And I'm just sitting there going geez, I used to do that, too. You know? And I just–and I hear people saying that now about people that I knew. And it goes back to my thinking like what will people say about me when I was doing this? You know, what was–what was going on when, you know, I would want to hang out with people and they didn't want to hang out with me.
[00:14:11]
And then, I go back to saying like, you know, the friends that I had in college. Besides my roommates, which ones were my true friends, and which ones were just using me because of the drugs? It was, you know, and it puts a lot of doubt in my mind about my experience, about, you know, what–what I really, you know, where I really stood in the mind of people.
You know, there's myself before I got into drugs, I was saying I'd never do that, people that do that stuff is idiots. You know? Just being a na�ve person. And then, two years later, I'm, you know, up to my elbows in drugs, you know? Like, I–you know, prescription pills over here, marijuana here, cocaine over there.
[00:15:06]
And it was just really–it was a shock because I had never would've thought I'd be the person to get into it. But then, there it was.
THERAPIST: What made you feel that you would never be that person to get into that? Anything in particular about your character traits that felt like they were [inaudible 0:15:31] using?
CLIENT: Well, I guess because the perception I had was the people that were using it were like [inaudible 0:15:36]. And they were like junkies and they lost their teeth, and they were [inaudible 0:15:40]. You know, I [inaudible 0:15:44] do that. And then, it's to the point where you say you would never let a drug get the best of you. And I used to say that all the time. I used say oh, the drug doesn't [inaudible 0:15:57].
[00:15:59]
But really, the drug had me. You know, by the hand and was leading me wherever it wanted me to go. And I had no control over it. No control. And it was really frustrating. Now, that I look back on it, and knowing the stuff that I did [inaudible 0:16:24] really was frustrating. Then, you know, I just wish I had an answer for what I–I switched the stuff. I guess–I guess I have [inaudible 0:16:34] get bored because in high school it was more about smoking marijuana and drinking. And I guess by the time I got to college, I guess I was like well, I already did that.
And then slowly, I got introduced to prescription medicines. And I was like oh, these are awesome. So, I kind of weaned off of marijuana, I mean, I didn't stop using, but I didn't do it as frequent. I drank so, but not as frequently because I was doing the prescription drugs.
[00:17:08]
And then, after I, you know, was doing the prescription then, you know, for my birthday, my buddy's like oh, happy birthday, for my 21st, and we all [inaudible 0:17:18] cocaine. And then, I was like whoa, I like this a lot. And then, I slowly weaned off prescription pills and, you know, full-fledged into the cocaine.
And it was just like a vicious cycle. And then, I kind of [inaudible 0:17:39] off the stuff. And being a recovering addict, it's very difficult because I didn't tell anybody when I broke my ankle. I broke my ankle, and I didn't–I wouldn't take any of the prescription drugs. And I didn't want to tell them that I was, you know, I was a recovering addict. But they were just like you need it for the pain, I was in so much pain, and I didn't take any medicine. I was like okay, [inaudible 0:18:12].
[00:18:13]
And then, I took the Vicodin that they gave me and all of a sudden, I got that old feeling back, I was like wow. I was like no wonder why I love these so much, I went wow, [inaudible 0:18:28] relax, there's nothing bothering me right now. And I got really scared because I thought, you know, with my prescription, even though they were for legit medical reasons, I thought I was going to be hooked again. And I got really scared. Really scared. And I just–whenever I ran out, no matter how much pain I was in, I didn't re–I didn't ask for a refill. Because I–I was–didn't want–I didn't want to go down that road.
[00:19:05]
I didn't want to have a–and it was actually funny because after surgery, I–I had major surgery and my buddy, he was heavily into prescription pills at the time. I woke up from a nap to him trying to steal my medicine. And I looked at him and I said what are you doing? Well, I wanted to see what kind you have. Dude, get out of here. You know?
And that really put it into perspective for me how this was really–really spiraled out of control. And how a very tragic incident had to finally open my eyes. Which was [inaudible 0:19:52]. It was really tough.
The hardest thing I think I ever did was I never–when I was lying in the hospital bed, and it was that day that I never snorted another line, I had never [inaudible 0:20:13].
THERAPIST: For some reason, I'm having a hard time hearing you. Could you [Interposing]
CLIENT: That's alright. Yeah. That's alright. I–you know, when I was lying in the hi–in the–in the hospital bed, I was like alright, well, you know, this shit almost took my life, I'm done with it.
[00:20:27]
And then, I was fine with it, you know, as soon as I, you know, got out of the hospital, I just, you know, I thought I could quit cold turkey, but my cousin was getting married in late July/August, we–in August. And we went to his bachelor party, and of course, there was coke at the party. And after going what I just went through, I was alright, I'll just do a little bit, and I did a little bit. And a little bit turned into a little bit more. And then finally, I had to leave the room where it was at.
[00:21:02]
And that whole night I couldn't sleep because I was fearful that my heart was going to stop.
THERAPIST: And this was after your–
CLIENT: This was after I was in the hospital. And since that day, I haven't touched cocaine since. [Sighs] and it's–those two times, I mean, 6–2006. So, five years I have not touched cocaine. I wish I could say the same for marijuana. [Chuckles]. I don't know what it is about my marijuana addiction, you know, I say it's fine, but it's not. There's sometimes where I just want to kick that habit, but there's always something that just drags me back just to do it, even if it's once in a while.
Like last night, I smoked marijuana. And then, after we smoked marijuana, that's when the conversation of the cocaine came up. And I think probably the marijuana already in my system really triggered my anxiety to it being the worst that it's–ever was.
[00:22:14]
I mean, I've never had that kind of anxiety again, like before in my life. Where I was just really uncomfortable.
THERAPIST: I'm sorry, anxiety with the marijuana?
CLIENT: After I smoked. I think that the marijuana enhanced my anxiety, like made it go to another level.
THERAPIST: It's usually the opposite of–the effect the marijuana often has.
CLIENT: I know that. And that's what's–that's what's weird.
THERAPIST: And that's–you felt that especially last night?
CLIENT: Mm-hmm.
THERAPIST: What was going on that made you want to smoke marijuana?
CLIENT: Just hanging out. You know, I just–you know, [inaudible 0:22:52] hockey game we went–we went my buddy's house, just having a couple of beers, you know, I wasn't planning on doing anything crazy. And then, they were just like you want to smoke? I was like sure. I only took a couple hits.
[00:23:04]
You know, because I'm slowly trying to wean off it, you know, since before last night, I hadn't smoked in like three weeks. Because I really was trying to get it out of my system and get ready for, you know, my job interviews and, you know, just get myself clean. And it's just–you know, I didn't think anything of that. And then, the other stuff started coming out, and then, that's when I just really started getting really uncomfortable.
And it's just...it was just really weird. It was really–it was really hard. Because I felt like I was, you know, I couldn't breathe. I felt like my heart was, you know, beating really fast, I could feel my heart beat. I could feel the nerves all right up in here, and it was–it was very uncomfortable.
[00:24:00]
THERAPIST: Was this like right after you smoked? Or a little bit like–immediately after, or–?
CLIENT: No, this was a little bit later. It was probably after an hour after we smoked. After it was, you know, had time to fully settle into my system. And–yeah. It was–it was very uncomfortable. And it was just–it was just funny that, you know, my buddy, when he texted me last night saying to go on the coke diet really reminded me of, like, how bad I was. My roommate because he was the one who saw it firsthand.
He was the one who saw me, and they used to–they used to say that I had a problem, too, in college and I used to deny it because I'd go in my room and I'd lock my door for like 15-20 minutes and they'd come back and I'd be sniffling. And they're just like who are you fooling? You know, like what are you doing? Are you that stupid? And it was really [sighs], that was the time when I blew it off like no, it was fine, like, [inaudible 0:25:06] doing nothing.
[00:25:07]
But now that I look back on it, I'm just like wow. You know, they really did, you know, truly care about me. You know? But I just–I didn't see it at the time. And it was–it was difficult. It was really difficult. You know, just moving on, and–I mean, don't get me wrong, like they–they didn't do it as consistent as–consistently as I did it. Where I'd do it seven days a week, seven–six days a week, where they were only more like three or four.
So, I mean, to me to say that they–they didn't look out for me, they did, but they really didn't. Because when they needed it, they knew I knew where to get it, they knew I had it. And they knew that, you know, I'd find a way to get it. And then, that was the toughest part.
[00:26:05]
Was just like–like I said, you know, last week, like, they used to call me the candy man because I had everything. I knew where to get it, I knew which people had it, I knew, you know, which people really, you know, I could trust and which people I couldn't trust. And it was just–it was–it was weird. It was a really weird experience during my college years. I mean, everyone's like oh, college is the best time of your life.
I look back on it and if I had to do it over again, I'd probably commute. Just because knowing what I know now is just–it was really difficult, you know, being–putting myself in that situation. You know, it was just–it was tough. And I didn't–I didn't–and again, it goes back to my decision making. Everything I meant made was on an instinct.
[00:27:06]
I didn't take any time to process any of the information. I didn't take any time to distinguish, you know, what possible consequences could come about. What, you know, who I could be hurting, who I would be hurting, I didn't think about any of that stuff. I just did it again, and was going to deal with the consequences.
THERAPIST: And who do you feel you do hurt or did hurt?
CLIENT: Mainly, I think I hurt myself because I was in such denial. And, you know, I was like oh, I'm an adult, I can make my own decisions. And you know, I was like I'd work my way out of it. But now that I look back on it, I just hurt a lot of people. I hurt my friends, I hurt my, you know, my family, you know and I just [sighs], I just did a lot of damage.
[00:28:04]
That I wish I could've taken back. But what's done is done. My image as someone who was a drug addict, who was going down the–the wrong path. I hoped today has changed as someone who's on his way to recovery. Who is on his way to living, you know, a drug-free life someday. And who's someone who, you know, can make decisions on his own, not by instinct [inaudible 0:28:39] or emotionally, but someone who can do it rationally. And just take the proper amount of time to think about it, think about all possible, you know, consequences, think about all possible outcomes.
[00:28:57]
And–and moving forward. I guess the problem with me is, you know, I'm–I like to control conversations. And by making instinctive decisions, I could control them. But now, when I have to think about them, I kind of feel like I've lost control a little bit. But it's actually made me a lot wiser.
THERAPIST: How do you control conversations?
CLIENT: I go in with an idea of how conversations should, you know, are going to be. If I, you know, when I'm talking about like certain topics, I kind of know, you know, where I stand on it and how I, you know, how people are going to react. I kind of play it out in my head of like what people say, what people do, what I'm going to say after. You know? Just, I kind of like have like an outline of how I, you know, want the conversation to go.
THERAPIST: Why?
[00:30:01]
CLIENT: I don't know. Maybe it's comforting, knowing that I'm in control. Knowing that I have a grasp on what can be said and what will–not what can be said, but what I hope said where I hope to go. Because it's something that I think about, and it's something that I, you know, hope goes the way that I want it to. But if it doesn't, I get all discombobulated. And that's–that's when I usually, you know, started to get enraged and just do stuff. It's just when–when people would throw a curveball at me.
THERAPIST: And what would–I mean, it sounds like if you're just trying to anticipate everything someone's going to say, lots of things could be curveballs.
CLIENT: Well, it–it–but it was very broad, and very vague on what I thought. If they didn't say anything like that I thought they would say, like, my girlfriend's reaction when I moved out, that was a curveball.
[00:31:10]
She was calm, she was still, and didn't say anything. And I had no idea what the hell to do. I [sighs] I was just like okay, now I'm up shit's creek. Like what the hell do I do now?
THERAPIST: Well, what were you–it sounded like you were expecting–
CLIENT: I was expecting a fight, I was expecting her to yell, I was expecting me to yell. I was expecting it to be ugly. And it was the total opposite. There was no screaming, there was no yelling. There was two adults having a conversation. And I–I look back and it confuses me. Because that's not how I had pictured, you know, splits or breakups going.
[00:32:05]
I pictured someone just telling me, you know, all the negatives about it. And all this. And all that. Someone apologizing for, you know, what was going on.
THERAPIST: So, you were preparing yourself for a fight?
CLIENT: Yes.
THERAPIST: And then, when you didn't get one, how did you feel?
CLIENT: Confused. Loss of words. I had no idea what to do. My goal then was to get my stuff and get out there as fast as possible.
THERAPIST: You didn't want to talk to her?
CLIENT: I didn't know what to do. I didn't know what to say. I didn't. I thought I was going to go in and there was going to be a screaming match. And I would've just played off of emotions. Because that's how usually I–that's–that's kind of the environment that I was brought up in. Was everything is built on emotions. You know, you get–you get yourself psyched up for this, and then [snaps fingers] bang. You know, it triggers you to get all emotional, and then, you just start talking and you don't know what you're saying, but, you know, you say some mean things and you know, didn't want come out like that.
[00:33:19]
And you deal with the consequences after.
THERAPIST: So, it sounds like in one sense, your girlfriend was understanding. I mean, she's–
CLIENT: She was.
THERAPIST: And you didn't know what to do with that.
CLIENT: I–the problem was I didn't know how she was feeling because we never really communicated that. Never really talked about that. And since that time, we have talked about, you know, our feelings and what we were feeling. I had no idea that she knew that something was wrong with me, that I was really stressed out and really overwhelmed. I didn't know that. She never said that to me until after our, you know, we–we–we broke up for a bit.
[00:34:06]
And then, she started saying like I could see it going, you know, starting, and then, I could just see it going for the worse. And I mean, she said all the signs were there, and all the signs would me not being happy with that. And I was like, I know. I knew that. But my own fault, too, I never expressed my feelings to her either.
You know, because I didn't–like I said to her, I tried it, I used to tell people what they wanted to hear just to get away from anything that, you know, was wrong and then, you know, would start arguments. I used to, you know, try to just tell them what they wanted to hear, to calm situations down and just move on from them because I didn't want to deal with them anymore.
[00:35:03]
And you know, telling that to her because that's how I truly felt, and I wanted her to know this, telling that to her really, you know, shook her up a little bit because she really wanted to know where I stood in our relationship. If I truly did love her, if I really did want to be with her. If I did want to have a future with her. And I can honestly see the doubts that I put in her head.
And that is true. You know, I can, you know, I can honestly say that I, you know, I man up to that, like, I did that, I decided it's not my proudest moment. But the hardest part is trying to reinforce to her why I'm here. You know, going through counseling, why I'm here, you know, trying to fix myself. It's because I do want to be with her. I do want to have a life with her, I do want to have a future with her.
[00:36:02]
You know, and that's why I am here. You know, living at home all this time really, truly does, you know, make me miss her. You know, I do want to be with her. I do.
THERAPIST: So, what in yourself is preventing you from doing that?
CLIENT: I don't know. Maybe there's some doubt that I can't provide for her. That I have a lot of issues in my own life that I don't want to put on her. That is she is very supportive of me. And in my family, there was a lot of support, but there was a lot of negativity.
[00:36:58]
And I just–I guess I'm fearful that I couldn't give her enough support that she needs. And more support. Because I just don't know how to do it. And that's very difficult to me. When I, you know, it's not something you can learn by reading a book, it's not something you can learn by, you know, taking a class on it, it's something that you have to learn by experiences. And by keep trying. And it is–it's really difficult trying–growing up for 26 years with all these, you know, mixed emotions, bad habits, a lot of anger, a lot of, you know, emotional battles in my family. And then, moving to someone who kind of her same issues, but now those problems are coming on you, and your problems are going to lay on that person.
[00:38:01]
And I just don't know how to coexist with it, I guess. It's to find the right place to make them, you know, just to be like it is okay, you just got to work through them all.
THERAPIST: Like what kind of problems do you feel like are coming onto you from her?
CLIENT: Well, her mother has Lupus. And her mother's, you know, she's very–she's–she's sick and the Lupus plays with her and all that stuff. And her brother is just married with a newborn. And her brother's not very supportive of her mother. Her mother leans on my girlfriend a lot for support, for, you know, help, for all–excuse me. For just a lot of support.
And you know, my girlfriend just–she doesn't mind doing it, but she gets irritated because her mother is just, she's sick.
[00:39:01]
And you know, I try to–you know, she tells her she knows she's sick, but there's just a lot of demands from her mother that she puts on, you know, my girlfriend. Like, the whole process of the wedding. You know, her brother's wedding where her mother wanted to throw a shower. But her mother's disabled, she can't clean, she can't do this, she can't do that. She offers up the house, so I go over there with her. I help her prep the house, I help her cook the meal, I help her do all this stuff.
You know, and then I just see that problem of hers coming on me. And I get irritated because I'm like, you know? And then, again, another thing, there's another party for, you know, there's a baby shower for her brother's baby. And what does her mother do? She puts all of the onus on my girlfriend. Saying we're going to have it here, can you do this, can you do that? And she just gets really stressed out because her brother is nowhere to be found in all this.
[00:40:03]
THERAPIST: And so, how does this affect you?
CLIENT: Because I'm the type of person where I'm just like you got to tell people no. Where I don't know how to be supportive in a way where I can't be negative towards her family. Because it is her family and it's her mother. We have had had conversations in the past where her mother pissed her off, where I'd just be like well, just put her out of your life. And she, you know, and that's what I would do. But then again, looking back on it, I know and I tell her this, I go I know it's your mother. I know it's really difficult to just tell your mother to sit over and just ignore her. It really is.
I go, but the amount of stress that's putting on her from her mother, from her brother, I can start to feeling it off of her and onto me. And I do feel the stress that she feels.
[00:41:05]
And I do feel the pressure that she's under. You know, and I do want to be supportive, you know, because what I would do in that situation was I'd just tell them no. But she can't. Because I guess she's kind of got what I have, is where my parents ask me to do something, I know I'll do it because I know my brothers and sisters won't. And that's what she feels with her brother. Is her mother asks her because she knows she'll do it. My parents ask me because they know I'll do it. And that's really difficult, too is because I do, do a lot for my parents.
You know? I mean, they are getting older, they can't do as much as they could before.
THERAPIST: Do you feel like you tell your girlfriend to do things with her family that you yourself wish you could do with yours?
[00:42:01]
CLIENT: Like telling them no?
THERAPIST: Mm-hmm.
CLIENT: Yeah. I guess you're right. I didn't think about it like that. I guess, yeah. I mean, there are times where I want to say no, I'm not available. Because I am like her where I'll drop stuff and go do it. Where my brothers and sisters–I mean, my sister would, but she was [inaudible 0:42:28], but my two brothers wouldn't. And that's frustrating.
It's just like I'm the one who lives, you know, 20 minutes away, and I have to come back and take my dad because he, you know, sleeping, you're on your computer. You just don't give a shit. You know, and it's frustrating. I mean, it was frustrating when I lived there, like, I told my dad I'd get up and, you know, shovel the driveway and do all that stuff. And the next thing you know, I'm waking up at–I had set my alarm at 5:00. Well, I'd hear the snow blower going at 10 of 5:00 just because my dad would want to get out there before I did.
[00:43:10]
And I used to get fucking pissed off. Like what are you doing? I told you I'd do it. You know? And I'm outside helping my dad, and my two brothers are still sleeping. And they come out [chuckles], their cars are cleaned off, the driveway's clean, and they're going to work. And here I am, and I'm up since 4:40-4:55 outside shoveling, now I got to go in and get ready for work. And work all day. And possibly have to shovel again.
You know, and it's just frustrating.
THERAPIST: It sounds like it's very similar to your girlfriend and her family.
CLIENT: It is. It's very similar because there's a lot of dependency. I mean, her brother will help once in a while, but not all the time. Just like my brothers will. It was like this last Christmas, my dad wanted the outside lights up, but he was busy, he wasn't feeling well. So, I said fine, I'd do it.
[00:44:03]
Well, I'm outside for two hours putting up the lights, and everyone comes outside after I'm done and goes do you need help? I mean, you knew I was outside all this time and then, they come running, you know, ask for help.
THERAPIST: That's frustrating.
CLIENT: You know? And it's just–it gets irritating. It gets irritating, and then just–you know, every time I ask, you know, my brothers help me do something, my–my mother will yell at me and be like don't ask them to do that. He's not your slave or whatever it is. I'm like I didn't ask him to do it. I asked him to help me. Or if I ask them to do something because I know I have a prior commitment, she gets mad at me. Don't ask him to do that.
THERAPIST: This is important for us to talk more about. We need to stop for today.
CLIENT: Okay.
THERAPIST: [Interposing] pick this up next week, okay?
CLIENT: Okay. Beautiful.
THERAPIST: Alright?
CLIENT: Thank you. [Interposing]
THERAPIST: [Interposing] wanted to pay [Interposing] this week and last week?
CLIENT: Yes.
THERAPIST: Okay. Great.
CLIENT: Same time next week?
THERAPIST: Same time–if this works for you, let's–
CLIENT: This–this works. My only concern is when the restaurant opens.
THERAPIST: When is that?
CLIENT: Uh, it starts in March.
THERAPIST: Okay.
CLIENT: But I may need mornings because this is like right in the middle of the day and–
THERAPIST: Okay. I should have something in the morning. So, let's touch base about that next week and I'll make sure we find the time.
CLIENT: Okay. Beautiful. Thank you very much.
THERAPIST: Okay. Very nice seeing you. I'll see you next week.
CLIENT: Alright. Thanks.
<b>END TRANSCRIPT</b>
