TRANSCRIPT OF AUDIO FILE:
______________________________________________________________________________
BEGIN TRANSCRIPT:
CLIENT: Okay. So... (inaudible at 00:00:09)
THERAPIST: Yeah.
CLIENT: I can, I have a thousand dollars...
THERAPIST: Okay.
CLIENT: ...that I've set aside with my balance. I think that leaves $400.
THERAPIST: Yep.
CLIENT: So I'll pay that now.
THERAPIST: Do you need a pen?
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: Sure. I also, you also will have a small balance that I have not given you a bill for from the period between, I think, when your insurance kicked in and when we started recording.
CLIENT: Okay.
THERAPIST: I have the date that we started recording because you signed the...
CLIENT: Okay.
THERAPIST: ...form and then from then on you're good but...
CLIENT: Okay. Great. So, so for the, how many, how many copays is it?
THERAPIST: I've got to look. I think... I'll have to look. My vague guess would be between two and four hundred bucks. [00:01:03]
CLIENT: Additional. So we're talking...
THERAPIST: Right.
CLIENT: ...the balance is between six and eight hundred.
THERAPIST: Yeah. But I will, I can look at that this weekend.
CLIENT: Alright. Okay. Great. (PAUSE) [00:02:00]
THERAPIST: Thanks.
CLIENT: So... (PAUSE) Yeah I feel I'm, I'm not... (PAUSE) I, I, I kind of lost the thread, I think and I'm feeling pretty disorganized, disordered. [00:02:57]
I just walked out, walked out of the house without the keys so Jennie is leaving me the spare in the mailbox but... (PAUSE) (ph) hasn't made an offer yet. I'm supposed to talk to my friend, my contact today.
THERAPIST: Yeah.
CLIENT: But it's just dragging on and on and on and that's... You know, I want to settle things, I think. So there's an external, pretty significant external factor, I guess.
THERAPIST: Sure. You're hope is that they'd make an offer, you'd accept or negotiate and accept and then leave partners. [00:04:00]
CLIENT: Yeah. Yeah, I mean, there are different ways of configuring it I think so that I'm not, you know. I could stay on in a titular (ph) way. I don't, I don't think there's any reason why that wouldn't, wouldn't possible at this stage but until I get an offer I can't...
THERAPIST: Right.
CLIENT: I can't go anywhere with that.
THERAPIST: And you continue living up here.
CLIENT: Yeah. Probably commuting down there X percent of the time. Again, since that initial conversation I just, I just, I don't know what's feasible (inaudible) (PAUSE) [00:04:53]
So there's that. There's my finances, which, you know, I've (PAUSE) I've thrown a wrench into them and that's... I think that's got me pretty anxious. Jennie (ph) wants to pay it now that she's earning regular paycheck, my outstanding balance with other creditors. But you know... (PAUSE) I don't want her to do that. (PAUSE) [00:06:00]
So, so there are a couple, a couple of big external factors that I think are probably affecting, affecting my mood. And sort of, I don't know, organization. (PAUSE) I find it hard to pick up whatever we were talking about. (PAUSE) [00:07:00]
(PAUSE) [00:08:00]
THERAPIST: Well... Usually this means or this happens when you're upset.
CLIENT: Okay. As I said... (PAUSE) I mean, put a different way, you could say that it is a, not just a... It is me being upset.
THERAPIST: I guess I put it that way because you don't describe it in kind of explicitly emotional terms. Although, I imagine that... [00:09:21]
CLIENT: I think, I think that's implicit. I don't think I'm shying away from it. I just wanted to identify the things that don't have to do with my internal machinations that is probably relevant here. (PAUSE) [00:10:00]
THERAPIST: What are the internal (inaudible at 00:10:07]
CLIENT: I, I, I... You know, I feel disordered. I feel... You know, I'm finding it hard to organize myself emotionally, logistically, physically. And some of it is constitutional and some of it is completely unrelated to me. I find it helpful often to kind of assess what has nothing to do with me before I try to understand what is related to the way that I'm orienting myself. Fair? Not helpful?
THERAPIST: (LAUGHTER) You have some sort of tone which I can't quite put my finger on. (PAUSE) I guess I feel a little like you're saying, "Duh." [00:11:05]
CLIENT: Well, yeah. I am.
THERAPIST: (LAUGHTER)
CLIENT: Not quite the way I would have put it but. (PAUSE) I don't know.
THERAPIST: (inaudible at 00:11:27)
CLIENT: That is what I, that is what I try to do. Otherwise I will, you know, look for something in myself and I have a tendency to find something there. So it seems useful. (LAUGHTER)
THERAPIST: I guess...
CLIENT: It, it's always, you know, I think a useful exercise for me not to start (inaudible) [00:11:59]
THERAPIST: Maybe we mean somewhat different things. Often when you get this way, you've been hurt and you're angry.
CLIENT: Not hurt, not angry.
THERAPIST: That would be the first time...
CLIENT: No. I don't think so. I think... Maybe, I don't know.
THERAPIST: ...at least that we've looked at closely.
CLIENT: That we've looked at closely? I mean, no. It's been a rough couple years I think so maybe. I don't know. Alright. Maybe. Maybe you're right.
THERAPIST: I guess I'm imagining something like, you know, the process with the folks in New York as, as you said, dragging it on. I imagine you feel a bit left hanging. Not that they backed out but that... [00:13:07]
CLIENT: No. I mean, I feel a little left hanging I guess but it's totally like what is going on is, is pretty clear and my friend, at least, has been immediately responsive. I mean, you know, I touch based with him to see if they're... They're on the East Coast so... 
THERAPIST: Oh.
CLIENT: You know, so I dropped him a note to seeing how they were doing. He wrote back in like half an hour. I mean, it's clearly... I don't know. I mean, maybe... It's probably because he knows me well and he knows that if he waited a long time to write I would probably get anxious but... I don't know.
THERAPIST: (inaudible at 00:13:55) I was imagining as I think about it that, you know, as much as is reasonable at one level that they'd be taking this long to make you an offer at another level you're really eager for it so you can move on. [00:14:15]
CLIENT: Oh God, I want to get out. I mean, you know, I'm just treading water. I mean, you know I'm just, I'm just treading water. Whatever. You know, things are moving. Phil (ph) is, is taking some responsibility and going to Africa next week.
THERAPIST: He'll be.
CLIENT: He will be yeah. And talking to, you know, the person that he is going to have to work with to, you know, to make this happen. And I pushed that, you know, very explicitly so I feel fine and good about that. You know, I, but I want to get out. I want to get out as soon as possible. I want to get out next week. I want to be working. I'm not working and that's, you know, troublesome for me. [00:15:00]
That's difficult. I don't like, I don't like just sort of treading water, basically wasting time. You know, I would like to be reading and, you know, working and thinking and writing my own things but the truth is and this is, I think, a significant part of what is troubling me more broadly, I can't and I can't think of anything I really want to be working on. Although in theory there are things that I could be doing during, you know, this hiatus and it's troubling to me that I'm not doing any of those things but I think symptomatic. You know, so I should be owning this time and I'm not. I'm just, just like engaging in pure time wasting behaviors and I think that is disordering. [00:16:00]
So I'm like waiting for somebody else to give me some, to give some structure to my life. (PAUSE) I don't really understand why though. Other than psychobabble.
(PAUSE)
THERAPIST: Zing! I mean...
CLIENT: I wasn't aiming at you with "psychobabble." I was aiming at myself (inaudible at 00:16:47)
THERAPIST: Oh. Oh. How so? I misunderstood.
CLIENT: I mean... And I'm sorry. I didn't mean to, I didn't mean to put it that way. Wasn't my intention. [00:17:00]
No, I just meant, you know, I can reach for...
THERAPIST: Yeah.
CLIENT: I don't know, underdevelopment of my ego or whatever. I mean, I can reach for kind of models but I don't really understand how they work. I don't understand why it would be that on the one hand, there are things that I can see myself doing, you know, I have capacity to do them and yet, I can't do my own work. Even at a time when it's really a changing of the tide. You know, the tide is really slack right now, in between two, you know, two, two projects, neither of which is mine. You know, I'm about to, to return one to the sender and, hopefully, knock wood, pick up another one, assuming everything everything works out. [00:17:57]
And it should be a time to do, you know, stuff that I've put aside but I find that I haven't put anything aside. I mean, that's not literally true. I've got files of things that, you know, I have worked on at one time or another but I can't validate any of them or I don't, I don't, I can't attach myself to them coherently enough that they present themselves to me or... I'm not sure. I'm not quite sure how to put this Ethan but I...
THERAPIST: I think you're awfully frustrated.
CLIENT: Sad. Here is it. You know, I've had two months, really, since it became clear what I was going to do and I've done nothing with them. Nothing. Just pure time wasting behaviors. (PAUSE) [00:18:59]
I feel sad about that. That's two months of my life. And I think, you know, there there's probably a problem of mood, you know, an issue of mood. There's an issue of (PAUSE) of kind of organization. That's the way I was putting it a moment ago. In other words, you know, how deranged my thought processes get when my mood is, is disrupted by this uncertainty. But beyond that, I think there's a problem of, you know, how I see my own, you know, my own work or something. You know? There's this, this larger issue of not really being able to see myself, see things that I could do, attach them to myself and I think that may be, that may be primary. at some level. I don't know. (PAUSE) [00:20:19]
(PAUSE) [00:21:00]
THERAPIST: The impression I get is more of you unconsciously and in a way that feels like it's instead being done to you (PAUSE) is of you, like, pushing things away. What, you know, projects you could be thinking of or working on at work, recollections of what you've been talking about here... [00:21:55]
CLIENT: Well but I think I put myself in an active role in what I, in the formulation I just gave. I said, you know, I'm having trouble attaching them to myself. So you say pushing away. I guess that's one metaphor. But another, another way of thinking about it is just the I don't know how to stick them. I don't know how to make them stick. I don't know how to think of them as mine. You know, the pushing away is secondary.
THERAPIST: Right. I see it kind of the other way around that in a way that feels like it's being done to you... Like you feel as though you're trying to stick it to you, stick it to yourself and there's some force that's getting in the way. And what I'm saying is I think you are unconsciously are that force and are actively pushing things away. Not so much that you kind of don't know how in that, you know, you sort of don't have some understanding or capacity to... [00:23:01]
CLIENT: We're not, we're not...
THERAPIST: Yeah.
CLIENT: I mean, I don't like hearing you put it that way, you know, mainly probably because it's, it's different from the way I put it. And I would like pride of authorship.
THERAPIST: Yeah.
CLIENT: What I, I mean... Yeah, sure, fine. But the real issue is, you know, that it doesn't feel like mine. You know, what you're talking about, what you're describing something, something that's done to me, I don't, whatever. I see it. It's just not a revelation. (PAUSE) But I think I was owning that. (PAUSE) [00:23:53]
I mean, the problem, you know, the problem has been that it doesn't feel like mine. So when you say it's taken from me, I feel as if there's some external force that is... I'm not... I don't know... I think that's, I think that's, that's implicit when I said (inaudible at 00:24:15) the real issue is, you know, how I feel about the relationship between whatever work that I'm doing and myself.
THERAPIST: (inaudible)
CLIENT: Whatever, the, whatever the, however the, whatever the translation of that sense of disconnection. You know, whether the translation, the sort of internal interpretation is that somebody else is intervening and preventing, you know, my sense of commitment to or, you know, association with or relevance to a project or whether there's some other metaphor, some other way of understanding it. The basic problem is that I don't feel connected to it that I, I, I feel some difficulty connecting to it. Am I making sense? [00:25:17]
THERAPIST: I think I follow (inaudible at 00:25:27)
CLIENT: I mean I... I guess, I guess what I'm understanding from what you say is that the primary issue is my sense that some other agency is intervening. And what I'm saying is that, as I see it, at the moment at least, you know, the... Sometimes that's true and sometimes I have another interpretation. At the moment, for example, you know, I have this time and I'm not using it. And I'm not, I don't feel persecuted. I don't feel that somebody else is intervening and preventing me from using it. [00:26:00]
I'm not using it. And I'm not using it because I don't feel at some level somehow I don't feel connected to it in a way that would allow be to create a state of organization, you know, in pursuing it. And, you know, so that suggests to me that the basic issue is just how much of a connection I'm feeling to what I would like to be, work that I'm doing. You know, a, a, a deficit that applies whether as now, it's just me or whether as, in some other instances that we've discussed, you know, I feel as if somebody else is the agent, you know, preventing me from feeling connected from the work that I'm doing. Is that clear?
THERAPIST: Um.
CLIENT: That's not clear.
THERAPIST: No I think I follow what you're saying. [00:27:01]
CLIENT: We have a control I guess is what I'm trying to say.
THERAPIST: I guess I also feel like this is kind of always where get when you're stuck.
CLIENT: Oh.
THERAPIST: Sort of back to the, "Well, the primary issue is that there's this work I could be doing and I just can't do it." You know, yeah, sure, I guess we could talk about why or we think about it as, you know, my pushing it away or having trouble sticking to...
CLIENT: Okay.
THERAPIST: ...it or owning it or this stuff. But the main thing is, "I can't do the work and it feels like, you know what? I'm stuck. And, and really nothing I can do about it."
CLIENT: Okay.
THERAPIST: And, you know, that's really the thing.
CLIENT: Yes. I think that's what I'm saying.
THERAPIST: Yeah. That's how you always say it when you feel like this. (LAUGHTER)
CLIENT: Okay.
THERAPIST: I'm sorry. I don't mean to be like... But...
CLIENT: Okay. I agree.
THERAPIST: But sort of... [00:28:00]
CLIENT: Should I not be practically oriented?
THERAPIST: No, no, this is like... (PAUSE)
CLIENT: (LAUGHTER) Now you sound frustrated.
THERAPIST: I'm... (LAUGHTER) I'm trying to think of a metaphor that (PAUSE) applies. So... (LAUGHTER) The way it looks to me is like this. It's like, if I was a different kind of doctor, like you came in with some with some sort of a limp and a pain in your knee or something.
CLIENT: I've said this. I've said this. I would like you to...
THERAPIST: And...
CLIENT: ...intervene. [00:28:59]
THERAPIST: And you say, "Gee Doc. You know, I'm walking around my leg hurts and I'm kind of limping and it's uncomfortable and I can't get places as fast and I can't do what I need to do and it can be distracting and, you know, makes me worry about other things in my health." And, and we've sort of, you know, spent a bunch of time. Like we did some MRIs and some x-rays and, you know, we, we carefully like... This is where the, you know, metaphor in away falls apart but humor me and I'll show you what I mean. You know, looked at, "Oh yeah. So, you know, there's some weakness in this tendon. Like, look at this ligament over here. You know, this congenital thing there and, you know, from the way you, from this old injury this happened and see, so when you walk, it looks like this. And, you know, actually, it turns out that sort of the way you carry yourself or the kind of shoes you're wearing or whatever. You know, the way, you know, the gait that you're used to contributes to this thing as well as these other factors and, you know... [00:30:03]
And then you know, oftentimes (inaudible at 00:30:07) "Okay so if I change my gait and my shoes and I, I understand this way. You know, then it's not so frustrating and I can see how, you know, part of it's my history and part of it's things I'm doing and, you know, Yeah. I'm kind of in there. It makes a whole lot more sense." And then you come in the next week and say, "Doc, you know what? My knee hurts and I have this limp and I don't know what's going on. But what I'm saying is, you know, it's distracting and it's frustrating and I can't get places as fast and, and, you know, I can't do things I need to do." And but I think, I know. Remember we were talking like we identified all this stuff and whys and wherefores and things, you know, ways. And you're like, "Yeah, I know about that. Okay. I guess so but I think you're missing the point Doc." [00:30:59]
"The point is my leg hurts and when I try to walk places, you know, I can't go as fast and it's uncomfortable and distracting and I need to be getting things done but I, I can't work in the same way." That's, that's, that's how this seems. (LAUGHTER) To me, I guess...
CLIENT: Well.
THERAPIST: Yes.
CLIENT: Alright.
THERAPIST: Yes.
CLIENT: So what's the incentive for me. Good metaphor. It's fine.
THERAPIST: Okay.
CLIENT: You know... (PAUSE) I mean, I think, I think what you're, what you're pointing us toward, I think is the question of my expectations from this therapeutic interaction.
THERAPIST: No. No. What I'm saying...
CLIENT: Am I, am I expecting to be better or am I just expecting to manage some, you know, kind of permanent disability?
THERAPIST: Okay no, no, then I haven't been clear.
CLIENT: Okay. [00:31:57]
THERAPIST: What I am struck by is (PAUSE) the extent to which you forget or lose touch with...
CLIENT: Yeah. Well that's established and we talked about it explicitly. I'm not, I don't deny that but on the other hand, you know, there is a practical question. You know, there is, you know, there is a question of to the extent that we're engaged in, you know, (inaudible at 00:32:45)
THERAPIST: I think you're kind of in the part of yourself. Remember how (inaudible) a few weeks ago, we were both, I think, struck at a particular moment by how when you're not in Engelbert (ph), you know, you think very, like at a very high level and abstractly and sort of put things together conceptually and remember things very well but there's a level of kind of emotionally being in touch that is, is very difficult. [00:33:21]
Whereas, when you're feeling, when you're kind of more Engelbert mode, in a way that was unclear to both of us, your thoughts and kind of a way to conceptualize about what's going on goes out the window. That's where you seem to be right now. I...
CLIENT: What does this have to do with all this rigmarole about my knee?
THERAPIST: My point in that metaphor was you come in the next week with same complaint as the week before with no recollection of having...
CLIENT: I see.
THERAPIST: a much more detailed, involved, and actually quite satisfying explanation for what's going on. [00:34:11]
CLIENT: I don't, I... The explanation is fine. I mean, I, I...
THERAPIST: I don't think it is. You're frustrated.
CLIENT: It's fine to have an explanation. It's good to have an explanation. It's helpful to have an explanation but at the end of the day, you know, I...
THERAPIST: Okay what's the explanation?
CLIENT: ...I have to ? What's that?
THERAPIST: I said, okay what's explanation?
CLIENT: The explanation for?
THERAPIST: Why the feeling the way that you are. Why you're stuck in the way you are. Why you're having trouble getting work done. Why you're having trouble remembering what we talked about last week.
CLIENT: Ah. (PAUSE) [00:35:00]
(LAUGHTER) Okay.
THERAPIST: (LAUGHTER)
CLIENT: I don't remember. (PAUSE) Bits and pieces, I guess. (PAUSE) Hmm.
(PAUSE) It's in there, I imagine. [00:36:11]
THERAPIST: Oh, I'm sure it's in there and it will come back. I'm not concerned about it being gone altogether but it's strikingly unavailable.
CLIENT: And since the therapeutic, the therapeutic mode that we've chosen relies on my being able to call these things to mind in moments of distress, that's a problem.
THERAPIST: Well.
CLIENT: I mean, if, if, if there was a physical rehabilitation that was going on that was independent of my ability to remember exactly what the, what the malady was and what it's etiology was that would be one thing but since...
THERAPIST: (inaudible) it's an opportunity.
CLIENT: Okay.
THERAPIST: I mean, here you are in here, in the lab, exhibiting the very problem that in the world has caused you so much grief. (PAUSE) [00:37:00]
CLIENT: Okay. So...
THERAPIST: And you have the opportunity to look at it a little bit removed...
CLIENT: Help me use it. Sure.
THERAPIST: ...from actually having to write the memo or...
CLIENT: Sure.
THERAPIST: ...you know what I mean.
CLIENT: Sure. So help me use it.
THERAPIST: Well...
CLIENT: I can't call it to mind. I'm trying.
THERAPIST: I understand.
CLIENT: (inaudible at 00:37:35) maybe that has something to do with it but probably, probably not as much.
(PAUSE) [00:38:00]
THERAPIST: I think it probably has, is more of a reaction. There are a few things but I think a crucial one is the five days that have passed...
CLIENT: Sure.
THERAPIST: ...between Friday and today. And not because you don't have the capacity to remember something for five days. I mean, okay, I'll cease and desist with the metaphors in a minute but let me shoot for one more. (LAUGHTER) Like so you say...
CLIENT: This whole thing is a metaphor so well... (LAUGHTER) Go for it.
THERAPIST: (LAUGHTER) Yeah another way of looking at it like, you know, you spend a year writing the first two chapters of your dissertation, let's say. And then you came in the next week, sat down scratched your head and said, "What was I working on?" [00:39:00]
CLIENT: Really? It's only a matter degree that, you know, that kind of thing.
THERAPIST: Yeah.
CLIENT: (inaudible)
THERAPIST: Right. So, I think it's not the span of time exactly with the five days although I think it's part of it. I think it's probably more the sense of being abandoned.
CLIENT: True.
THERAPIST: By me, for that period that leads you to discard. Unfortunately, we are also going to have to stop...
CLIENT: (LAUGHTER)
THERAPIST: ...for today.
CLIENT: Okay. Okay.
THERAPIST: But we'll talk more on Friday. I assume you're not going to Africa next week. Am I right? Okay.
CLIENT: Maybe we should do a twenty minute session. Then we can really work on it. Alright. Alright.
THERAPIST: Okay.
END TRANSCRIPT
