TRANSCRIPT OF AUDIO FILE:
______________________________________________________________________________
BEGIN TRANSCRIPT:
CLIENT: Odd time as usual. (Pause) That reminds me of one of the first time my tenant was late with rent, how he said it would never happen again and it's October, what, ninth? And I still don't have rent for September. Not to say I'm going to be prompt with my rent, but you jinx yourself when you say that kind of stuff, so...
So I left here on Friday and I went and I drove the CR-V and I liked it. And (pause) it has a little bit more power than the Outback and, like, Bluetooth is standard. There are a few little things and, you know, they redesigned it so the cargo space is comparable. [00:01:07] And (pause), you know, when I went to Subaru, it's not like the guy was not nice, but he just kind of hands-off with me, like almost—I don't know if that was just his style or he just assumed, "Well, he bought a Subaru before. He's going to buy a Subaru again," you know. And he didn't go on the test drive with me, so he wasn't like telling me about the car and just assumed I knew everything about the car. He was knowledgeable, but I had to, like, pry information out of him. But this other guy was telling me all about the car as I was driving it. So, you know, I liked it and (pause) we negotiated a number and waiting for my dad's financing.
THERAPIST: Wow.
CLIENT: And pretty good deal. Cars.com has a target number you should shoot for and I was pretty close to that. [00:02:13] And USAA has a thing (inaudible at 02:16) prices people have paid and I was a few hundred over that. And then it was only $300 more to get the 2013 over the 2012. So for $300, you save the equity of driving off the lot and having a 2012 versus a 2013, whatever. They're the same car. They really haven't changed anything from the two models years, so... And I was—I kind of wanted—well, at first I said I wanted a red one and I don't know, I was on the fence about it. I wasn't sure if that was the right decision and they have a blue one in stock. Something (inaudible at 02:58) (laughs). So I guess I'm just waiting to hear from my dad today about how the financing's going to work. So hopefully in the next few days, a new car. Oh god, change my life. [00:03:16]
THERAPIST: [That's great] (ph).
CLIENT: So, like now I drive my car and I'm just like, "Oh." Like, today was the first day it, you know, has been revving without kicking into gear. Today was the first time it did that for reverse. And it's progressively worse in the higher gears, you know. It used to just be first gear and now it's second gear and, you know. So I don't know how many days I've got left in this car (laughs). I literally feel like it's days. And (pause) so (pause), timing will work out. (Pause) I have to figure out a payment plan with my dad. We'll see how that goes. [00:04:16]
I didn't go to practice, I said—well, yesterday was kind of a holiday so I was kind of more relaxed. So it wasn't a rough Monday, but I (pause) just—yeah, I went and played with the kids in the afternoon and just really nauseous. I kind of felt crappy all day and just was too nauseous to go to practice. And I had been having that kind of—usually the nausea comes and then goes, so it makes me—I wonder if it was something else other than the Prozac or whatever. So, I mean, I'm a little nauseous now. It just seems more like the Prozac than what I had yesterday (ph). So I haven't played in a while, about two weeks. [00:05:14]
I've got a board meeting tonight instead of practice I've got to go to the board meeting because I skipped the last one. And hopefully it won't be raining—I drive my bike out there. It's kind of time crunch because I have to take Ian to the swimming today. Pick him up, take him to swimming. I blow off all my work today, which I did yesterday and the day before and the day before that. (Pause) I keep telling myself tomorrow' s the day that I'm going to do all the work. And Wednesday's a good day because I usually have nothing going on on Wednesdays. (inaudible at 06:05) I got nothing. Oh no, what's today? The eighth. Yeah, I've got nothing going on. So I go into the office and do the three major tasks I need to complete. You tired? [00:06:28]
THERAPIST: Why'd you ask?
CLIENT: Because you just (inaudible at 06:31) (laughs). You didn't tilt your head back, but you closed your eyes, you know.
THERAPIST: (inaudible at 06:40)
CLIENT: Is this early, you know (inaudible at 06:44) you got here. (Pause) I had a good time with the kids. Lucille is, you know, more...
THERAPIST:[Getting warmed up] (ph)?
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: Good.
CLIENT: And she's just more of a little person now than she has been. She knows what she wants. (Pause) Took her over to the big slide and we had a go along the wobbly little ridge, so she can't do it herself. So she just walks up, sits down, goes down the slide. The second time we do it about three-quarters of the way down, she snatches her face and then she just kinds of rolls over and slams her head into the side of the end. Doesn't even phase her.
THERAPIST: Whoa.
CLIENT: I thought for sure she would just be, you know. And I bet you that if Jess had been there, she would've cried. But it was me, so she's like, "What do I want from him," you know. But she is somewhat of a little daredevil. When Ian (sp?) was that young, I don't think he was (inaudible at 08:14) on the big slide. Especially by himself. Like, she walks up, she's got her little routine. You know, when she walks up, she spins the little driving, you know, little wheels and then goes over the slide. Little slide, big slide, goes down. She's still a little unstable on that, just kind of falling over. But it's so short that, you know, (pause). And Ian (sp?) has swimming today, so I'll probably see them both again today, just briefly. I've got to do something with Ian (sp?) between, you know, the school and the swimming. It's not a whole lot of time, but more time than (pause)—more time than you have to do nothing and you have enough to do something. If that makes sense. [00:09:11]
(silence)
I almost forgot about today because I've been waking up so early, you know. I fall asleep a little early. So today I woke up at 5:30 and finally got out of the bed at, like, 6:30. And I just was like, oh, I don't really have anything to do today. Just forgot about everything. Thinking today might've been Wednesday, I don't know. And it dawned on me that (pause) oh, today's Tuesday. Well I was awakened, now I must've slept later because I was awakened for street cleaning. They come around and they announce it. [00:10:08]
THERAPIST: Street cleaning?
CLIENT: Yeah. And I was awaiting to listen to what side of the street. I was like, "Ah," and then I'm like, "Fuck." And it's something that I easily, if I'd thought about it yesterday, could've parked on the right side of the street—or actually, the left side of the street. I wasn't thinking (pause). So [get up] (ph), try to find a spot. By then I was up.
THERAPIST: So...
CLIENT: Oh, here we go.
THERAPIST: What?
CLIENT: Nothing.
(crosstalk)
THERAPIST: Please, please. (inaudible at 10:50)
CLIENT: I was just joking (laughs)
THERAPIST: I'm actually quite interested in what you were going to say.
CLIENT: I just said, "Oh, here we go."
THERAPIST: Yeah. (Pause) So what's up with not doing any work today? [00:11:19]
CLIENT: Well, I'll probably do some work. I have to disperse a file.
THERAPIST: I guess that's probably why I was (inaudible at 11:24) your saying, "Oh here we go," because I imagine that (pause) part of what you were anticipating is that I was going to give you something to work on (inaudible at 11:35)....
CLIENT: No, no.
THERAPIST: ...or think about.
CLIENT: Yeah, that was more of what I was...
THERAPIST: Yeah, which is—I think it's kind of related.
CLIENT: (Laughs) (inaudible at 11:45) use these things...
THERAPIST: (Laughs) I wouldn't want to, you know, let's not go too far.
CLIENT: So here's something that I was supposed to do. (Pause) Bugging (ph) me a second time to do. I think it was Friday, but on (inaudible at 12:10) I've got things. I'll do work today, but...
THERAPIST: [You will] (ph).
CLIENT: I have to, you know, because certain things, you know...
THERAPIST: You have to get done.
CLIENT: Yeah. Little menial, you know, material (ph) stuff. But I've got to disperse a file. That's really the only thing that has to get done today. So, if I was (pause)—had any organizational skills whatsoever, I would've had everything ready to go. I could have bought them and made copies and FedExed (ph) it off. Instead, I've got to come back here, you know, after I get everything ready and then FedEx everything off (ph), so. I could go to Staples and make all my copies, but then I'd still have to go to a FedEx that has the envelopes, so I can just come here and make a copy. Just like I said, (inaudible at 13:06) more expensive downstairs. I get rewards from Staples. (inaudible at 13:13) awards for one copy. But still, had I thought about it last night, I could've printed out everything I needed to print out and (pause) bought everything with me. But I just can't seem to get that kind of togetherness (pause), which is probably some extension of my ability to do work. [00:13:46]
THERAPIST: Yep.
CLIENT: I mean, I'm sure there's some people—you might be one of them—who, you know, at some point the evening before go, "OK, what do I have to do tomorrow?" If I do that sometimes...
THERAPIST: I got Pilates tomorrow, I've got—staying on top of everything tomorrow. I've got—(pause) I think I'm a little bit your (inaudible at 14:20) that way.
CLIENT: No, I'm not saying that.
THERAPIST: Oh, OK.
CLIENT: But, you know, I think—there are people who do that, you know, who are very organized people, look at the day they have coming up. And if there's anything they need to prepare, you know, like pick out their outfit, you know. People do that stuff.
THERAPIST: Right. Yep (ph). Again, like if I was—to me, it seems like it's a combination of organization and, like, productivity. [00:14:53]
CLIENT: Yeah (pause), correct.
THERAPIST: (Pause) Yeah, I don't know how much you lack organizational skills and how much you tend to be a bit more passive about these kinds of things.
CLIENT: Lazy.
THERAPIST: [What teed] (ph).
CLIENT: [What teed] (ph).
THERAPIST: (Laughs)
CLIENT: I don't know. I've got a guy who doesn't—the last Thursday. [00:15:50]
(silence)
I didn't make coffee this morning, which is weird. (Pause) I hope I get my rent check today in mail. He sent me the lease like a week ago saying he was putting it in the mail tomorrow, which would've been last Tuesday or Wednesday. [00:16:53] And if you just- that's the thing that bothers me, is you tell me you're going to send me something and then you send it to me and then there's a sticky note on it that says to hold it for three days, you know. His wife never—I never have to hold her check, it's his check.
It'd be nice if they just sent me the $750 hers that she probably has ready to go. I don't know why she can't cover him. Maybe they have one of those marriages where his finances are separate. (Pause) They've got separate checking accounts. She has a good job (inaudible at 17:45). He's a lawyer, but (pause) he got laid off and just went out on his own. That's why they were kind of bluffing with me a little bit about whether they were going to stay in the apartment. They tried to sub-lease it. I don't know. They just have nowhere to go. Nothing's going to be cheaper. They would have to come up with first, last, credit check, (inaudible at 18:26) can't really go anywhere (pause), any place that runs a credit check.
That was also the thing that bothered me about Subaru, is the guy was like, "I'm going to run a credit check on you no matter what." And it's like, "Really? My dad's buying the car. I just want to put my name on it." "Oh, I don't know that we'll able to do that." [00:18:47]
THERAPIST: I remember you saying that, yeah.
CLIENT: So just—I didn't get the warm fuzzies like I did (inaudible at 18:56) with the Honda, and I just like the car better, you know. It has all-wheel drive. It's not full-time all-wheel drive, but (pause) I don't know why you need all-wheel drive when you're just driving on the highway or driving (inaudible at 19:13). It's better gas mileage too. I don't know exactly how much that's going to save me in the long run—probably a good chunk of change. It has a much bigger gas tank, two gallons more. So I'll be buying gas less. Seems like I'm always buying gas. It's expensive, between buying gas and copayments (ph). I'm just getting murdered. And when I have to pay for real stuff, like taxes. [00:19:46]
But I have a good (inaudible at 19:47) buyer rep and a seller rep next week, so (inaudible at 19:53) next week is coming in a good chunk of cash coming in. (Pause) I have to do work for that stuff though (ph).
THERAPIST: I've been thinking about other people sort of slacking, being late. I think it'd, like, take the pressure off you a little bit. [00:20:39]
(silence)
CLIENT: I'm using it to justify my own shortcomings.
THERAPIST: No, no. I don't think you're trying to justify your shortcomings. I think you're (pause) trying to relieve yourself for the moment of feeling bad about this. (Pause) And I guess that's not entirely different, but maybe a little bit.
CLIENT: I take joy in other people's sorrow. That's what I do for work, you know, other than closings, it's people (pause) are not happy, you know. Typically I can't make them happy, but they still have to pay me (pause), which is kind of stuff to, you know—I don't know. [00:21:46] Jess's friend was still pretty upset, you know, she's just, like, (pause) sends me these texts. "We have a court date, why can't they be out of there? Why can't I just change the locks?" Because you can't, you know, there's nothing else I can say about it, you know. Told you from the start the system sucks, you know.
(Pause) I have to try to find my—I need to build up some sort of tolerance for those kinds of comments and just be like, you know, it is what it is. I can't change it. You feel helpless, you know, that there's something going wrong and there's nothing you can do about it, you know.
THERAPIST: I do.
CLIENT: (inaudible at 22:44) you go through that all the time. That's what Jess goes through, she's always losing. So at the closing everybody wins. Everybody gets paid, someone gets their check, buyer gets their house, realtors get paid, mortgage brokers get paid. Everybody's got a big smile on their face, you know (laughs). So much different. Even on replies (ph) I'm finding people that are less—well, number one, my loan officer goes over the numbers with me before, which (pause) Ray used to do but stopped doing because he would rely on me. (inaudible at 23:39), you know, (inaudible at 23:41) so good at this, I'll just let him deal with it, you know. But Harry still calls up the bar order and goes through the numbers. By the time I get there, they already know everything. So once you get past the numbers, it's all, you know, sign here, sign here. You've been through the process (pause), hopefully multiple times. (inaudible at 24:02), as you probably know. [00:24:09] 
You've got plenty of equity in that big old house up on the hill. Some flag (ph) out in front of your (pause) some historically significant (pause). The first Mormon to live in the area has been to your house.
THERAPIST: (Laughs)
CLIENT: I didn't watch the debates, but the more I (inaudible at 24:43), Obama just hit negatively for the debates, it kind of bothers me a little bit. I'm a little worried (pause), because he seemed to have it in hand.
THERAPIST: Yeah, they said it's affected the polls.
CLIENT: Yeah, so, there's always a (inaudible at 24:59) who's statistical genius and really understands this poll and he has a model, which is pretty accurate. And he still has Obama with a 75 percent chance of winning. But his model does, but he says a lot of this, you know, day-to-day polling is noise and that, you know, you're getting, you know, this is a bounce (ph) that will, you know, probably fade away (inaudible at 25:25). (Pause) I imagine Obama won't fuck up the second debate. Let's hope. Confident in (pause) our vice president. Forget his name.
THERAPIST: Joe.
CLIENT: Joe Biden, yeah. Is he going up against—I want to say Matt Ryan, but that's a quarterback.
THERAPIST: Paul Ryan.
CLIENT: Paul Ryan, yeah. Haven't heard much about his two lately, you know, for a while [they were on the news everyday] (ph). Probably intentional with Paul Ryan because he's so polarizing. (Pause) I finally registered to vote, so now I can vote. Well, they haven't sent me confirmation but (pause) I'm assuming they will. Voting they probably take very seriously. They don't want to disenfranchise any Democrats. They probably sneer at you at the polls if you grab a Republican ballot, you know. (Pause) I am getting a little sick of being nauseous.
THERAPIST: Sure.
CLIENT: Kind of want it to go away. I don't want to start with a different medication (inaudible at 27:30). Everything seems to be working the way we're moving, you know.
THERAPIST: Good.
CLIENT: Did you contact the nurse?
THERAPIST: [I have spoken to her] (ph).
(silence)
CLIENT: My mind's racing. [00:28:53]
THERAPIST: Really?
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: And is it often racing here?
CLIENT: Sometimes. I just feel like (pause) distracted.
THERAPIST: Yeah, I got the...
CLIENT: Thinking about the anxiety (inaudible at 29:07).
THERAPIST: Yeah, that's sometimes I just want for you to get a little sort of anxious to speed it up. We go over things you have to do or you go over money that you owe. I'm kind of, like, (inaudible at 29:20) a little bit I guess (pause), which, maybe again (pause), relates to the difficulty of getting to work.
CLIENT: In what way?
THERAPIST: Well, when you think of things that you feel responsible for, it makes you anxious.
CLIENT: So I don't think of them (pause) or I don't do them?
THERAPIST: You either avoid them or you think about them and feel anxious and great (ph). [00:30:18]
CLIENT: Like, that's kind of what I'm thinking about is, like, what am I going to do when I leave here?
THERAPIST: Right. Which, I guess is a way (yawns) (pause)—yeah. (Pause) Do you have any thoughts about why thinking of those things makes you anxious or the ways it makes you anxious? [Has anything come to mind] (ph)?
CLIENT: I don't know, just that I have stuff I have to do, you know. I just—I don't know. [00:31:19] Part of it's comfort, it's like I just don't have a good space—I could make an office and I probably should. Maybe that should be one of the things I try and do is, but just the space—I mean, yeah, I'm working, like, on a couch. You know, I've got printers on the floors, I've got the laptop on the coffee table and just, you know, [I don't have any] (ph) space set up to do work. And I definitely have furniture to set it up. You know, I have an office with a computer I never use. It's not even hooked up to the Internet anymore. (Pause) So I think that would help. I think losing the Summerville (sp?) office space has mentally affected me more than—just because it's... [00:32:19]
THERAPIST: You've certainly bought it up a few times as you need more driving or, you know, stress (ph).
CLIENT: Oh, I have to go to the bank today too. (Laughs)
THERAPIST: What?
CLIENT: It's just all these little things that's like, "Oh yeah, I have to do this." Oh yeah, so I have to wake up when I feel like there's nothing I have to do and (ph)...
THERAPIST: Maybe just (pause) having stuff you have to do is kind of overwhelming.
CLIENT: Could be. What do I do about that?
THERAPIST: Well, I don't know. I wonder why it's overwhelming. I mean, it doesn't sound like the stuff you're talking about is (pause) that difficult or that time consuming. I know sometimes it may seem very stressful, but it sounds like it's just having things you have to get done (pause) it's, like, a real struggle in a way for you, between knowing u need to get them done, a sense of obligation to do them on one side. And be tough to get yourself in gear to get to them. The reasons are still aren't all that clear. [00:33:44]
CLIENT: You haven't figured it out yet. Will I be cured when you do?
THERAPIST: Nope.
CLIENT: I'm just a cash cow, right?
THERAPIST: (Laughs) No, I mean...
CLIENT: I mean, it's to your advantage not to cure people.
THERAPIST: Well, yes and no.
CLIENT: I guess I could leave after a while (inaudible at 34:38) good service.
THERAPIST: Sure. [00:34:43]
CLIENT: That probably happens all the time, like, people switching back and forth between therapists, trying to find somebody who (pause)—I don't know if I bought it up, but Ian (sp?) is in talk (ph) therapy.
THERAPIST: I think you did mention it, yeah. Did you know the name of his therapist?
CLIENT: No. I can ask Jess, but I don't want to talk to her.
THERAPIST: Yeah, I remember being a bit surprised actually that the therapist had not reached out to you. I mean, generally (pause), we want to do that. I mean, as a child therapist, you know, your parents are separated or divorced and (pause) one of them is bringing the kid and the other is (inaudible at 35:30).
CLIENT: [Mommy's doing] (ph). Yeah. What would you ask? [00:35:43]
THERAPIST: Oh, I'm smiling because we're so much on the subject of my work.
CLIENT: Are you saying I deflect?
THERAPIST: Very smoothly. You deflect very smoothly.
CLIENT: (inaudible at 36:08) something smoothly.
THERAPIST: Well (ph), it depends on the problem you're coming (ph) in for.
CLIENT: Jess was yelling at Ian (sp?) at the park yesterday and she called him a menace. It was like, "Ah, I can't believe she just did that." And she didn't do it in the mean spirit kind of way, but (pause) I knew he was going to take it as, "Oh, you know, you're calling me names." He got really upset and she's like—she kind of backed down a little bit from it, but, you know, I was just like, "Ah." Because he was riding his bike around and there were little kids and she felt that this family left because Ian (sp?) was riding his bike around, which—I don't know. [00:37:10] (Pause) He really doesn't need to ride his bike in a playground. It's kind of a small space. Not super small, but (pause) a lot of little kids running around. And I [thought she handled it a little inappropriately] (ph). They bounce is back though, you know, just buoyant (ph). (Pause) I guess there's a problem if they don't bounce back. He never, like, melts down or, you know, throws a tantrum.
THERAPIST: That's good.
CLIENT: But he has no problems expressing himself when you've hurt his feelings. You know, he's (inaudible at 38:04) to now. He gets that from his mom (ph). [00:38:10]
THERAPIST: (Laughs)
CLIENT: No guilt of saying things. Whatever's on his mind he's going to say.
THERAPIST: I see. She's like that?
CLIENT: Yeah, she has trouble holding back.
THERAPIST: Yeah, that certainly fits with other things you've said about her.
CLIENT: I also know that she was talking to this woman yesterday and it's, like, here's a woman, a mom, you know, in your community, and she was just complaining about doing divorce work. Just like, you know, the type of people you need to be saying, "Oh yeah, I do divorce," you know. It's like she's making it so she doesn't get any divorce clients, you know. She's, like, fighting it. I feel in some ways that puts more pressure on me, you know. (Pause) Things are not as great for me as they have been, you know. But who knows what, you know, December and January are going to [do for me] (ph). [00:39:40]
THERAPIST: Right. Probably not very many closings, right, because of the season?
CLIENT: Yeah. And then the seller reps (inaudible at 39:47) through the end of November, but there's some recent tax law changes where (pause) for people who own investments properties, it's going to go up next year, sale gains, gains on sale. So there might be a bit of a rush to get the sales done before the end of the year. I think that's a lot of what is going on and why the market's been so, you know, low ratings but also there's a lot of sales because people are trying to get rid of investment properties (pause) because Congress has to act to extend the low ratings. Of course, I've seen none of that business. [00:40:40] But I'll keep trying to ask for a mortgage broker and see if I can get one more to (inaudible at 40:53).
THERAPIST: [Yeah, that would make a big difference] (ph).
CLIENT: Or a realtor who's going to send me business—that's the hard part (pause), is having them confident in you that they can send you business over every time and know it's going to get done. And most likely working with someone, you know, (inaudible at 41:25) he [ran space from the sky] (ph) who's got a pretty busy practice. He can't...
THERAPIST: He's a realtor?
CLIENT: He's a real estate attorney. And he can't give business to everybody, you know. He's just got too many realtors and mortgage brokers, but they use him because they know it's going to get done, you know. (Pause) Trying to give myself a number of things to do, so I can remember and know I've got three things to do. So I know I have to come up with three things to remember.
THERAPIST: Right.
CLIENT: (Pause) (inaudible at 42:23), like, I should have bought the bank deposit stuff with me. [Oh well] (ph). (Sighs) I guess I have to go over the documents for the board meetings. I should do that. That's not work though, that's (inaudible at 42:47). Ian (sp?) is going to be starting the Cub Scouts. It's only, like, (inaudible at 42:52) a little den. There's dens and packs and they've got all kinds of different—just the first grade and five or six kids, which (pause) whatever, you know. I think he'll have fun. But the whole badges and all that stuff, he's just going to eat up because he's always making his own badges, you know. He's got stuff taped on everything that's says just police or staff—that's the big one now. He went to the festival and he has a shirt that says "Ian's room..."
THERAPIST: (Laughs)
CLIENT: ...and on the back, it says "staff."
THERAPIST: That's great.
CLIENT: I want to get him the yellow shirt.
THERAPIST: Yeah. [We should stop] (ph) for now.
CLIENT: All right. Well when you figure out (inaudible at 43:47). So...
THERAPIST: I'll see you Friday?
CLIENT: Yeah, if I remember.
END TRANSCRIPT
