<font size="4"><b>7: The Plague of Psychiatry</b></font>

<i>Psychiatry and the Bible</i> by Carroll A. Wise, contains
(buried in much scripture quotations) mention of the threat
of psychiatry to Christians, and the reign of terror now
going on to enforce its doctrines on man. Where the author
quotes the Bible, there is no need for psychiatry. Where he
uses the Bible, he is blasphemous. Psychiatry is a false god
demanding worship. It is dangerous, already seizing its victims
among healthy innocent people, and sacrificing their
bodies "on the altar of Molech."


Dr. Wise says that in the same way that rebellion against
God is called sin, rebellion against psychiatry is called sickness!
He says: "The Bible sees the life of righteousness in
man as not man-made, but the product of the spirit of God
working in man, requiring active response...and in responding
is changed." And from what he goes on to say, psychiatry
sees the right way of life as the product of their devilry techniques
working in man by "magic" and "treatment" horror.
They want to produce their own type of "new creature,"
competing with God, granting health if you "obey," making
sick if you follow God, and in "responding" are changed—
"the poison whereof drinketh up my spirit." And if there
are some in the church that use similar laws for contacting
another's body, they are devils no less than psychotherapy is.


If the working of psychiatry within the individual is met
with anxiety and hostility, this person's energies are consumed
in the destructive struggle. That is, psychiatry calls
those people mental patients who object to devils working
in them, and the destructive struggle is psychiatry's way of
destroying the body.


Psychiatry compares its work of afflicting with God. "He
has cut that He may heal us." "Thus a woman has her leg
paralyzed." "A student finds he cannot use his intellect on
his studies." "To the extent that we are inwardly sick there

[p. <i>30</i>]

The chief concern of psychiatry is the relationship of man
with man. "What each of us becomes is a direct result of the
kind of relationship we have with people. It may be a fellowship
of suffering...to our hurt" (but it is for another's
benefit!). "Religion operates to make the endurance of suffering
possible rather than to remove it." Psychiatry wants
religion to endorse this suffering of the innocent for the
guilty; it does not want religion to recognize it for the horror
it is, attack it, and deliver the captives of it.


Psychiatry does not like our God of the "elect," "the chosen
people," "the colony of heaven," with all murderers,
adulterers, liars, thieves, busybodies, and the like left in
hell. They offer us a god of "all men bound together in
unity." (Saints must be merged with, and serve, devils.)


God as a sort of ultimate reality, salvation as conforming
to the sensuality prescribed by psychiatry, the bondage of
"the community of man," the creation of "new organisms"
— these are the gods of psychiatry, false gods of idolatry, blasphemy,
fornication, witchcraft, who are demanding worship
and seizing bodies for destruction. The wrath of God is
against all such.


As there is the mystery of God, there is the mystery of evil.
Psychiatry is the modern Jezebel, "teacher of fornication,"
the Babylon, who glorified herself and lived deliciously by
her evil works. "Reward her double...make desolate...
naked...burn with fire...give torment and sorrow," she
who is "drunk with the blood of saints" and now psychiatry
victims.


"Upon her forehead was the name written <i>Mystery</i>. She was
called "mother of harlots and abominations of the earth."
"By thy sorceries were all the nations deceived." And psychiatry
also deceives by witchcraft. You feel and hear things
which they do by devil methods (chiefly to head and genitals

[p. <i>31</i>]

"God hath tempered the body together." It is how He
wants it (and how I want it), not to be re-made even by
"doctors" highly respected by society. "That which is highly
esteemed by man is an abomination to God." "Let no man
beguile you vainly puffed up by his fleshly mind." Man is
always reaching out with towers of Babel to discover God's
secrets. Man's body was made in secret. "I am fearfully and
wonderfully made, curiously wrought in secret" not to be
destroyed by psychiatry's experimentation.


Psychiatry is jealous of the energy (sex), faith and love of
the Christian. "Wherefore slew he him? because his own
works were evil, and his brother's righteous." "The children
of the flesh war against the children of the spirit." St. Paul
warns against those who want to bring Christians into bondage:
"Cast out the bondwoman [even though it be a doctor],
for we are not the children of the bondwoman, but of the
free."


Since the Bible does not hesitate to condemn all evil,
neither should the church hesitate to do so: "Ye are of your
father the devil, and the lusts of your father ye will do. He
was a murderer from the beginning. He is a liar, and the
father of it...Ye are complete in Him." No need for psychiatry.

