Transcript of Audio File:
______________________________________________________________________________
BEGIN TRANSCRIPT:
CLIENT: Here's this.
THERAPIST: Thanks.
CLIENT: I'm just leaving this out because I have to remember to mail it after, so I just don't want to forget it.
THERAPIST: Hello!
CLIENT: Hi! This has been an intense week.
THERAPIST: Yeah?
CLIENT: Yeah, a lot happened. I guess I'll go in sort of reverse order. (chuckle) Two of the writers called me with deadlines tomorrow (chuckle) so I've been trying to get my samples ready and I was afraid it would be hard to stick them together, all the different pieces, but...
THERAPIST: Right, for the longer sample?
CLIENT: Yeah, because this week there's a 40 page one and a 20 page one due and then later there's a 10 page one. If only it were in a different order, but I think I have started them successfully. I've got things together in a way that makes sense. [00:00:59]
THERAPIST: Oh, congratulations!
CLIENT: Thanks! It's not the ideal order or arrangement. I think I'm going to want to go back and write a new opening, because I was waiting to write the opening because the opening and the ending are always the hardest part, but I just made myself write something that works for now. (pause) It felt really good.
THERAPIST: Well good! It's really — think about it — quite a big deal to be able to get that much writing done and write things that are difficult for deadlines like that. I mean, think about other stuff and school stuff last year, which isn't exactly the same, it was not doable. And this has been.
CLIENT: Yeah, I mean, these deadlines have felt totally different. The other ones didn't seem to matter. There was this overriding idea that mattered much more than anything else, whereas with these, I really want to meet them and I've been writing more quickly and sort of lowering my standards for the ideal I would like just to make sure I make them. And it just feels great to have that working normally. [00:02:14]
THERAPIST: Yes, I would imagine so.
CLIENT: And it just feels good to know that I'll be sending out 40 pages of my novel and someone's going to look at it. Just studying with the school stuff I would always just dread the thought that someone was going to look at it. But I'm actually sort of excited that someone's going to look at my novel. Even though I'm not...I know I'm going to have problems with the stuff that I've written in the last week under deadline pressure (chuckle) because there's never a section that I don't go back to two months later and be like, "Oh God, that's [something I really need to] (ph) cut down." (chuckle) (pause) So, that's been exciting. (chuckle)
THERAPIST: Yeah, sure, and big. [00:02:55]
CLIENT: Yeah, it's sort of amazing to me how quickly and consistently I can write the novel when I feel like I have to because I think in the past I would want to wait until I was inspired and write smaller chunks because those were sort of what came naturally but (pause) the things I'm writing now are sort of traditional narrative form. They're not as experimental as some of the things I've written in the past but that's not necessarily a bad thing, and I can always go back and change it but I'll at least have a draft or a blueprint. (chuckle)
And it's sort of cool because I had envisioned the novel being maybe like 200 pages so I'm about a quarter done. (pause) And it had seemed sort of like it would be impossible to finish it by August because I care so much about it and I'm still learning so much but now it feels like maybe I could get a draft done by August, and that's actually exciting. [00:04:13]
THERAPIST: Well that's terrific!
CLIENT: I also started the job on the weekend.
THERAPIST: You did?
CLIENT: Yeah, they finally gave me my assignment. (chuckle)
THERAPIST: How about that, after...?
CLIENT: ...two and a half weeks, yeah. So I started it on...of course they send it on the weekend when I had plans but I started it on Sunday and the first period felt sort of confusing, like I wasn't sure what I should be doing. And then on Monday I was sort of tired and Sue had sort of kept me up talking a little bit the night before. She's being better than she was. We're getting along better because I think she's trying harder to keep it together. And I think she felt bad for keeping me up so she gave me one of her long relief dextroamphetemines. (laughter) And then I had an awesome day and did ten hours of work on my job that felt good and I was progressing at a reasonable pace. I reorganized the material and was able to write a fair amount of new content with concrete examples. And it felt really good to work continuously on writing for ten hours that I'm getting paid for. (chuckle) [00:05:39]
THERAPIST: I would imagine so! Yeah, absolutely.
CLIENT: And to feel rational about it.
THERAPIST: Yeah, you probably haven't had a day that's that productive in terms of something for work or school in a long time I would think.
CLIENT: Yeah, not since my job I would think, except like...I think my first couple of...like the midterm papers for school went sort of normally. I guess this incidence didn't get bad until November, so I had some sort of normal short things but after that, not so much. And then I've sort of... (pause) Tuesday and today I've just been working on editing the novel and then I have to send it off tomorrow and then I'll have to work through the weekend to make up for the...some of it's freelance and they started me so late anyway I felt like I could take time (chuckle) and make up for it later. [00:06:40]
So I'm going to have eight straight days of work which is going to be sort of unpleasant because I've been working...I mean, the working on the novel feels like work, although it's fun. So I guess that's Sunday to Sunday to Wednesday of work all day, every day.
THERAPIST: A lot of work.
CLIENT: (pause) So that's all been good. And then another thing happened that was actually very good although very disorienting. I think I mentioned last week that when I went to the doctor because I was having stomach trouble she prescribed me Wellbutrin again since I said it had been good.
THERAPIST: Oh no, I didn't know that.
CLIENT: Oh, I thought I mentioned it. I started taking it again last Tuesday.
THERAPIST: Oh! And wait...why did she prescribe it again? [00:07:36]
CLIENT: Because when I was talking about nausea and totally not eating and stuff she asked if I was experiencing depression and anxiety and she thought that might be partly causing the problems since they were sort of new and there wasn't any other reason or diet change. She gave me medicine for tummy stuff and then also redid the Wellbutrin. And she suggested — I think I meant to ask you and forgot — that I should get [hooked in] (ph) with a prescriber to make sure it's going well so I'm supposed to ask you for recommendations for prescribers.
THERAPIST: For a prescriber around here? And you can't go to the clinic, is that right?
CLIENT: Right.
THERAPIST: Okay. (pause) And, (pause) will you not be needing your insurance?
CLIENT: I would be.
THERAPIST: I guess we need to know if you have an out-of-network benefit.
CLIENT: I do.
THERAPIST: You do?
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: Okay. (pause) So, you could go to anybody who would be willing to bill it. It doesn't necessarily have to be somebody who's on (inaudible) or whatever you... [00:08:57]
CLIENT: Yeah, I mean in-network would be ideal but out-of-network I think would cover 70 percent. I don't know if I have to make a deductible for prescribers. That might be an issue but...I could always just call their help center. She suggested that I ask you if you knew anyone good but I could see if I could get just a random person.
THERAPIST: No, I have some people in mind. (pause) Let me make a note and e-mail you about it.
CLIENT: Okay, that sounds good. And could you e-mail my Gmail account? I don't know. Do you have that one?
THERAPIST: I don't know. Let's see...okay. (silence from [00:09:45] to 00:10:08) What is that?
CLIENT: It's [inaudible]...okay. Yeah that's the best one that I check the most.
THERAPIST: [email address]?
CLIENT: Yes.
(silence from [00:10:19] to 00:10:35)
THERAPIST: Do you have a preference whether it's a man or a woman? You don't? Okay. And I'm assuming you don't want me to bill your insurance?
CLIENT: You know, I've requested the form and they haven't sent it to me yet so I need to...I've tried to make it happen like four times and something always goes wrong. They have this stupid toll free number that you call to request forms but it's all automated and you can't speak to a real person.
THERAPIST: That's the sort of shenanigan and insurance company would (chuckle)...yeah.
CLIENT: Yeah so I left my name, number, address, and haven't received anything. (chuckle) So I'm going to next call their technical support and see if they can get me to get the website to work. (chuckle) This has been a hassle. I've been sort of thinking maybe they had a backlog of requests for forms but at this point they must just not have sent it. [00:11:37]
THERAPIST: Right. (pause) It's some sort of authorization form?
CLIENT: It's a 1500 form, whatever that is.
THERAPIST: Hmm. (pause) If you want, you can send me the information.
CLIENT: I can't even get the information.
THERAPIST: Do you have your subscriber ID number and stuff? That's... (pause) Do you have your card on you?
CLIENT: No, I actually don't have my current card. I just have all the numbers I need in a Word document.
THERAPIST: Okay, do you have...there's a few ways you can do it. If you want to just send me the name of the company and your ID number, I may be able to figure it out easier. That 1500 form refers to a claim submission form probably which you probably don't even need. I can submit that electronically really easily. So the only thing I would need to know is the claims mailing address.
CLIENT: I have that on my computer. [00:13:17]
THERAPIST: Send me that and your ID number and your group number if you have it and I'll just submit a bunch of appointments and we'll see what happens.
CLIENT: That would be great! (chuckle)
THERAPIST: Sure, yeah with all the information, it's very easy for me to do.
CLIENT: That would be excellent! (chuckle)
THERAPIST: And I would be happy to... (pause) I don't know what their policy is about back dating but...
CLIENT: I think they said you can do it at least a year. Unfortunately I've changed plans so it only starts in January.
THERAPIST: Yeah, I probably couldn't bill them for appointments over Skype or the phone anyway. But yeah, if you send me that stuff I'll submit claims for all the visits we've had since January.
CLIENT: That would be excellent! (chuckle)
THERAPIST: Sure, sure! [00:14:14]
CLIENT: Yeah, it's sort of been bizarre how hard it is to get this one form.
THERAPIST: Right. Yeah, we must have been talking across each other a little bit because for me it seemed like I didn't know why you weren't just getting me the information because it's easy for me to bill it but for you it sounds like you have been under the impression that you really need this from them in order to be able to get the reimbursement which is why you haven't given it to me yet, given me the information yet. So it sounds like we've been talking across each other a little bit. But I'm glad that won't really matter if they'll accept claims from a couple months ago.
CLIENT: Yeah, I got the impression talking on the phone that I was supposed to turn in the form so I guess maybe I don't (chuckle) if you bill it.
THERAPIST: Right. Yeah, there's different ways that these things work. I don't want to take too much of your (inaudible) but in some instances in in-network providers, they want you to fill it out so that... (pause) and then they'd pay you and you'd pay me. [00:15:26]
CLIENT: That's what they explained to me but maybe that's not...
THERAPIST: Yeah, it may not always work that way. There may be an easy way for me to automatically generate the form using my billing system which would be the other option. (pause) Yeah, it's silly too. (pause) It's sort of typical with the kind of things they do, like you could walk into any Staples and buy a (inaudible) 1500 form anytime you wanted. (chuckle) They probably don't make that clear in any way. (laughter)
CLIENT: No. (laughter)
THERAPIST: Yeah, it's just a standard insurance claim submission form.
CLIENT: Oh. (chuckle)
THERAPIST: So yeah, that's too bad but all too typical with how these kind of things work. So yeah, just send me the information and I'll submit and if they deny and insist you submit it, I think there's a way with my billing software I can just automatically generate the form and send it to you to send it to them, or something like that.
CLIENT: That would be great. (chuckle) Okay, well I'll e-mail you all those numbers and the address. [00:16:40]
THERAPIST: Sure, and I'll e-mail you some thoughts. It's hard to find a prescriber around here but I have a few people that you could call and I'll send you that information.
CLIENT: Okay, great. Yeah, and I sort of thought that it was like, "Oh, I'll see [where I am in a while] (ph)." But, before I started taking the Wellbutrin again I had had some visual disturbances and sort of a dream that felt like a warning dream and the dreams I used to have. And then a couple days after I started taking the medicine again, I started feeling more anxious and having trouble sleeping and then on the third day I started having a lot of hallucinations and auditory disturbances. And it felt like déjà vu just like the last time when I started taking it because these symptoms had started and then they got way worse like when I was on the med and it hadn't really occurred to me that it might not be all me. [00:17:51]
So that was huge, realizing that there had been another factor that wasn't in my head like making this way more unmanageable, because I was hearing music that wasn't there, like hearing voices calling my name...
THERAPIST: That must have really creeped you out!
CLIENT: I mean, at first it did but then it was sort of a relief just because (inaudible).
THERAPIST: Sure, sure. Right.
CLIENT: I've sort of been going through my life thinking that if something says the wrong thing to me or if I push myself too hard I could revert back into a state where I have to spend four hours a day doing tasks for some other personality. And that has just made it really hard for me to live my life and to really put myself out there in any way because I've just been so scared. And obviously things were really difficult before I started taking the Wellbutrin or I wouldn't have started taking it. But things just got so extreme. [00:18:57]
THERAPIST: So, remind me of the timeline for when you had taken it. I'm a little unsure.
CLIENT: I think actually last March I started taking it, something like that. And then I started taking it again last Tuesday, so I had stopped taking it.
THERAPIST: Right, I think you had told me you stopped taking it. But when did you stop taking it?
CLIENT: Maybe Sunday or Monday.
THERAPIST: Sorry, when did you stop after starting last March?
CLIENT: Oh, in August when I had mono because there was a week where I had probably strep throat too and I couldn't swallow anything so I just stopped taking all of my meds.
THERAPIST: Right, so now I'm clear. So this is hugely diagnostic. I wasn't quite sure of what the time...you had told me that I think once before about stopping the Wellbutrin at the end of the summer but I didn't remember when you had started. So if I'm understanding you right, this is hugely diagnostic for a bunch of the (pause) (inaudible) and psychotic type symptoms that you had last spring and over the summer. [00:20:16]
CLIENT: Yeah, I just can't believe what a big difference it made when I started taking it and how it felt just like it felt last spring.
THERAPIST: Well, I'm so sorry you had to go through so much of it then. I mean, it's awful to have to deal with those symptoms in any case but [that wasn't] (ph) necessary.
CLIENT: Yeah, like I can't believe it and I never would have known if this doctor hadn't been like, "Well, what were you taking in the past? It might help you eat if you take it again." (chuckle) I just can't believe...I didn't know an anti-anxiety medication could cause hallucinations and all this stuff.
THERAPIST: Yeah, we've definitely got to get you in front of a prescriber here pretty soon because (pause) I don't know — a lot of this is not my area — but I've not heard that often. The classic thing you worry about from an anti-depressant or anxiety medication is giving them to somebody who becomes manic but I don't think that's not what we're talking about because your symptoms are not manic symptoms. [00:21:49]
CLIENT: I mean, I felt very active, too much. It was kind of good but like I had had too much coffee.
THERAPIST: Yeah, and the nature of the auditory disturbances and hallucinations and...you just weren't manic last year, you just weren't. There are other things that I think are pretty clear to me.
CLIENT: And those aren't on the list of side effects because I've looked at the side effects for that drug and those just weren't on there.
THERAPIST: Right. (pause) Yeah, and like I said, this is (pause) again, I'm not a prescriber - it's not my area of expertise - but that seems like the sort of thing I would have heard of if it was expectable but yeah, we should make sure you talk to a prescriber pretty soon who can explain this. [00:22:53]
CLIENT: Yeah, and it wasn't just those symptoms. The ringing in my ears, which has been there ever since last spring, got worse when I started taking it again. And I started looking up tinnitus and Wellbutrin on the Internet and a lot of people said they got it when they started taking Wellbutrin and that it hadn't stopped when they stopped taking it. And that makes me so angry because the week I started, or that general time period, I was listening to a lot of loud music on headphones but I have in the past too and I've never had a ringing in my ears. And there's one theory that if you do listen to loud music or if you hear loud noises while you're on it, the combination of the ototoxicity and the stress on the cilia or whatever causes the tinnitus.
THERAPIST: Who was prescribing for you?
CLIENT: She doesn't work at BU anymore. (pause) But I don't think I mentioned the tinnitus to her, and I might have downplayed how bad the hallucinations and stuff were because I was really afraid she might want to have me institutionalized or something.
THERAPIST: Oh, I remember you not wanting to tell her about that stuff and I remember, I think, bugging you to tell her about it. (chuckle)
CLIENT: (chuckle) Yeah.
THERAPIST: And she wouldn't have institutionalized you for that.
CLIENT: She seems to want me to stop driving. (chuckle)
THERAPIST: Oh, really? [00:24:28]
CLIENT: Yeah. I think that's what sort of scared me. I was like, "Oh dear, what if this woman tries to take control of my life?" But, I don't know, that was probably an overreaction.
THERAPIST: You were scared about a lot of things.
CLIENT: Yeah. I was really paranoid at that time.
THERAPIST: I was thinking more feeling very vulnerable but maybe you were also a bit paranoid. You know what I mean? I wasn't meaning to say you were really paranoid at the time but I think you were scared, feeling very vulnerable to other people.
(pause)
CLIENT: Yeah, I mean, this has just changed so much, that realization. (pause) And I have been feeling a lot of eye strain and my vision has always been okay and then last spring and summer I was having a lot of eye strain and I had to get glasses. The eye strain has been there a little bit but not as bad, but then on the Wellbutrin it came back to the levels it was in the past. I think it just overstimulated my body in a way that didn't work. I started losing weight really fast, which was great, but I also worry that it has ruined my weight regulation because two days after I started taking it I just started dropping weight so fast and I've never had this much trouble losing weight as when I stopped taking it in August. And I've never weighed this much. [00:26:11]
THERAPIST: I see. Yeah, that I didn't know about. I know about some anti-depressants can cause weight loss or weight gain. I've not heard that there are lasting effects after stopping them or that it can mess up things, so you're metabolism or the way your weight's regulated. I'm really not the expert. I don't know.
CLIENT: A lot of people on the Internet said they lost a lot of weight on Wellbutrin and wanted to stay on it for those reasons.
THERAPIST: Something else that's... (silence from [00:26:42] to 00:27:09) Let me get you the name of some prescribers.
CLIENT: (chuckle) Okay.
THERAPIST: And, (pause) one of the other things you could talk to them about would be if the...what was it you took, Adderall, the other day?
CLIENT: Dextroamphetemine. I don't know if that's the same thing or a different thing. That worked really well for me. I felt very focused in a very steady, stable way.
THERAPIST: Well that's I guess what I was thinking. If it helped, talk to the prescriber about that as well and explain that it helped.
CLIENT: Do you think they'll judge that a friend gave it to me? (chuckle)
THERAPIST: They might, but... (pause)
CLIENT: Should I say I took it in the past and it helped and try to leave it vague (chuckle) as to whether it was prescribed to me or not? Or will they ask?
THERAPIST: I would tell the truth. It isn't the first time they heard that and I would... (pause) I would just tell them. [00:28:27]
CLIENT: And I did have Ritalin prescribed to me in the past so it's not like a totally out of nowhere thing because really all I want is to be able to think in a linear stream without all of this noise distracting me. That's really what I want from my medication.
THERAPIST: It'd be nice if you felt less anxious sometimes too, I would think.
CLIENT: Yeah, it definitely would. I guess I have a hard time imagining how a medication could do that. I have friends who say their Klonopin and stuff just makes them really tired, and I don't want to be tired. But maybe they're... (overlapping voices)
THERAPIST: Sure, yeah you don't want anything that makes you feel tired. (inaudible — overlapping laughter) Do what helps you feel efficient (ph). And, the Wellbutrin was giving you psychotic and other symptoms that were terribly disturbing and you really (pause) feel even more vulnerable and fragile (pause) in a scary way. [00:29:46]
CLIENT: Yeah, it just had such a huge impact over the way I've been living my life. Everything was just so terrifying and threatening. It was just so awful having my life completely dictated by something else. And that was there before but it just didn't have a platform on which to take control to the degree that it did.
THERAPIST: [High tolerance] (ph)?
CLIENT: There were anxiety attacks and migraines, some of these symptoms, but it's not like I was spending four hours a day doing stuff it ordered me to do before I started taking it.
THERAPIST: As far as meaning like writing in the journals?
CLIENT: Yeah and also it would give me questions to answer and it would say I wasn't allowed to do anything until I'd answered its question in writing. It was always questions I had to think about (chuckle), not obvious questions.
THERAPIST: Like, what sorts of questions? [00:30:50]
CLIENT: Like "What effect did it have to repeat these mantras, these positive thinking mantras, like your mom used to make you repeat in your head. How did that affect your psychology and your psychological patterns?" And I'd have to answer that in writing before I was allowed to do anything else.
(silence from [00:31:12] to 00:31:29)
And it made me spend an hour a day thinking only in terms of colors and shapes with no language, and that was hard. It was just so intrusive.
THERAPIST: Yeah, it sounds pretty domineering.
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: And (pause) it must have made you see yourself differently to know you were having to live that way.
CLIENT: Yeah, I mean, it made any situation that would sort of make me vulnerable just seem like a risk that wasn't worth taking.
THERAPIST: I guess school could have gone totally differently.
CLIENT: Yeah, yeah. [00:32:25]
THERAPIST: (pause) Are you sad about it? Pissed off about it? All of the above?
CLIENT: I mean, I'm still sort of in shock because these assumptions and fears were so ingrained, for a year now. And yeah, I'm pretty angry that a lot of it could have been avoided and I could have succeeded much more. The last year didn't need to happen in the way that it did, and that's really frustrating. It still would have been difficult. I still would have had issues to work through but (pause) I wouldn't have been living in fear the same way that I was.
(silence from [00:33:28] to 00:33:43)
THERAPIST: For what it's worth — I know this isn't or I don't have a (inaudible) — but people don't get institutionalized for stuff like that anymore. (chuckle) People get institutionalized for being an eminent safety risk to themselves or to somebody else or being so flagrantly psychotic and out of touch reality that they really cannot function at all. Not like having (inaudible) part of the day but kind of living in a real waking dream all of the time kind of stuff. And the problem these days is not getting out of an institution or avoid going to one, it's staying in there when one really needs to be safe or things like that. (pause) [00:34:42]
It's not just about money but (pause) even somebody who goes to the hospital because they're really at risk for — eminent risk — for suicide is likely to get out after a few days or a week, however much they or anybody else thinks more time might be helpful. And aside from that, there's nothing anyone can make you do. Like, if you are really suicidal, they cannot let you leave for a while until they think you are safe, or if you're wildly psychotic, they can keep you once you're there and not let you leave until they think you are settled down.
But like I say, they get people out of there very quickly these days and often before the people who are around them and care for them think it's best for them to go for economic reasons. If you're not in a hospital, there's nothing a therapist or a prescriber or anybody else can make you do. They can give you all the meds they want and say they think you should take them and you can decide not to do it and never go back and see them again. (chuckle) You know what I mean? Again, this doesn't sound like this is a pressing concern for you now but you should know that it's not a realistic fear that way, or a realistic concern. [00:36:23]
CLIENT: That's good, because I was really worried about (chuckle) my prescriber last year. I was like, "Can she have my driver license revoked?" (chuckle) I don't know what's going to happen! (chuckle)
THERAPIST: I see. Yeah, you should feel free to ask me. No, no she can't do anything like that.
CLIENT: That's a relief!
THERAPIST: No, the only thing that she could have if she thought you were at eminent risk of hurting yourself or somebody else, have you forcibly taken to the hospital. That hardly ever happens and (pause) for everything I know, you are nowhere close. (pause) And I've worked with people who've been in a hospital and I've never worked with anybody who was in psychotherapy who was taken there against their will. Mostly people are scared and feel safer there. People often hate it when they get there because it's not a cozy, fun, warm environment but (pause) it's pretty unusual and somebody would have to be having pretty different things go on from what we are talking about to land in a hospital against their will. [00:38:05]
CLIENT: That is good to know! (laughter)
THERAPIST: Good! Do you have any other concerns like that or things that you worry about?
CLIENT: Well, I guess (pause) back then I saw Brown as a real threat to my sanity and sort of seeing things differently now makes me realize the degree of which it was the direct relationship. It seems like being a part of Brown was a vote against taking care of myself since [you know, being married] (ph) has just been so damaging and had put me into such a shockingly bad state that I never anticipated being in.
THERAPIST: [Like college?] (ph) [00:39:04]
CLIENT: And I just wish it hadn't seemed that way. I wish I hadn't designed it that way. I see why I did but knowing that there was this other element that was neither me nor Brown...and now I still have these sort of bad associations and these things I've been thinking for a year an a half really, I think. But I need to reevaluate.
THERAPIST: Right. No, it's a real shame that this happened this way.
CLIENT: Yeah.
(silence from [00:39:53] to 00:40:06)
Yeah, I think I just put it together on Sunday. And what did it, oddly enough, was not the hallucinations and auditory hallucinations as much as the fact that the ringing in my ears got louder. (chuckle) I thought, "Oh no! It's happening again just like last March. Is there something about March that I just can't handle?" (chuckle) But then, when the ringing was getting so much louder, I started to wonder if that had actually been caused by the Wellbutrin since it was one of the side effects. And then I was thinking, "What about the other stuff?" (chuckle) And then I stopped taking it.
THERAPIST: In Indiana?
CLIENT: Yeah. I guess I'm really glad I started taking it again (laughter) or else I wouldn't have known, ever.
THERAPIST: Of course! (laughter)
CLIENT: I would have been afraid my whole life of getting back into that state. [00:41:12]
THERAPIST: I've gotten comments from people who have gotten more confident after it's been gone for a while but way better this way.
CLIENT: Yeah. (pause) I'm really hoping that this realization will help me sort of break through some of the anxiety barriers that have just been so difficult for me to break down. (pause) I mean, because it really was logical on some level since Brown and I were the two elements and when there was no third element it really seemed like the two things should not be together. (chuckle) And thinking in a particular way for a year and a half creates patterns that are hard to break and I'm hoping that this is going to make everything easier in that realm. I'm not sure how much resistance those patterns are going to put up because I can't really think about it too much until next week since I have these fellowship applications, I have a research application that I kind of want to turn in and work. (chuckle)
THERAPIST: Right, yeah, you've got a lot of administrative work, or a lot of administrative work to do.
(silence from [00:42:51] to 00:43:04]
Would it be helpful to come in here any sooner and talk some more about it or will you be too busy, or...?
CLIENT: I will be scrambling and I leave for DC for a week on Thursday. I think I'll be back next Wednesday. I need to look at my calendar to make sure but I think I'll be back from our next appointment, like a week from Wednesday.
THERAPIST: You mean a week from today?
CLIENT: No, a week from next Wednesday.
THERAPIST: So you're leaving for DC week from tomorrow?
CLIENT: What's tomorrow?
THERAPIST: Thursday.
CLIENT: Yeah. (chuckle)
THERAPIST: Okay, so you're leaving after our next appointment and will be back before the subsequent one?
CLIENT: Yeah, so I don't know if I'll even have that much time to even think about it. (laughter)
THERAPIST: Well hopefully you'll just feel somewhat better anyway. I have the impression that you're feeling a bit more solid. As upsetting as this all is, as you say, it's mostly a relief.
CLIENT: Yeah, I think the relief overwhelms the anger and frustration. (chuckle) And I guess it's sort of nice to have three positive reinforcements in one week like the job, the novel, and this realization. The three of them have had a really nice impact and I hope that was sort of enough to knock me out of the patterns I've been in. It's always hard to break mental habits but maybe this one (chuckle) will help.
THERAPIST: Yeah, I hope so.
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: We should stop for now.
CLIENT: Okay.
THERAPIST: But I'll see you next week.
CLIENT: Okay! See you next week! [00:44:58]
END TRANSCRIPT
