TRANSCRIPT OF AUDIO FILE:
______________________________________________________________________________
BEGIN TRANSCRIPT:
CLIENT: I still haven't heard back from psycho pharm. I left two messages. I got a letter yesterday from one doctor saying that she's no longer seeing patients at that address and that they should, you know, call her friend. I called Monday. I called Tuesday. I called her again today and her voice mail box was full.
THERAPIST: Okay wait a minute. So...
CLIENT: I missed my appointment on Monday.
THERAPIST: Now I remember that. And...
CLIENT: So I called to reschedule. 
THERAPIST: I remember that too.
CLIENT: And she never called me back.
THERAPIST: I remember that too. The part that I'm really struck by is so is the message said she's no longer seeing patients in that office?
CLIENT: She sent a letter. 
[01:09]
THERAPIST: Okay, sent a letter. Like does that mean you're not seeing here anymore? 
CLIENT: I could see her in her other location.
THERAPIST: Oh okay. That's very; that's quite striking to me that you would have had no notice. I mean as far as you knew, she was out like for vacation or...?
CLIENT: No, she had elective surgery and there were complications. So she had major surgery.
THERAPIST: Oh okay. 
CLIENT: And I knew she was going to be out at least through August. And that's, you know...
THERAPIST: Oh with medical. That changes a little bit. It's really strange for a clinician to like all of a sudden let you know, "By the way, I can't see you except for a half an hour from where we usually met," or whatever. But I mean if it's medically... 
CLIENT: It's not like I can't even remember the guys name who fired me who didn't even want to see me when I got out of [inaudible 02:11]. But I'm more worried...that's fine because...
THERAPIST: Right, you like this other doctor better.
CLIENT; We agreed we like her better, but something's wrong with her now because it's one thing, you know, to not call someone back, but when you call them a third time and their voice mail box is full, she's not checking her messages.
THERAPIST: I imagine her voice mail is full because there are some of the other doctor's patients who are freaking out and calling her.
[02:47] 
CLIENT: Maybe. 
THERAPIST: I mean...
CLIENT: But why is she not calling me back?
THERAPIST: That I don't know. 
CLIENT: See this is just the story of my life. Whenever it seems like something positive might be happening, something gets in the way. What? Is she pissed at me because I missed my appointment? 
THERAPIST: No. No, that...that would be really unlikely and totally unprofessional at best.
CLIENT: I mean I'm supposed to be weaning off one medicine and taking another which is going to delay focusing on the other medicines until this one is taken care of.
THERAPIST: Right, so your most immediate question is?
CLIENT: What's her fucking problem? 
THERAPIST: How long will the meds last that you currently have?
CLIENT: Well everything I've got enough refills for.
THERAPIST: Okay. So there's not a short term issue of you running out of meds. That would be the most pressing thing.
CLIENT: Yeah; no, I want to see her and, you know...
THERAPIST: Absolutely. Right, but that's not a like, "Oh my God," has to happen tomorrow problem.
CLIENT: No.
THERAPIST: Okay. You left her three messages or two messages?
[04:29]
CLIENT: Well two messages and then I tried to leave a message today, but her box was full.
THERAPIST: Okay. You had been seeing her every week, right, for two or three weeks.
CLIENT: Right and she was on vacation last week. So...
THERAPIST: So she just got back from vacation; she's got a whole bunch of other patients dumped in her lap. She seemed quite on top of things [inaudible 04:56]. Okay, just give her some time. 
CLIENT: I know, but it sucks. I got an e-mail from Jess yesterday. Whenever I get an e-mail from Jess, it always fucking freaks me out. I get anxious or depressed or that; the reason the short sale has been held up is because we need to file a stipulation with the court on the condo lien which had been sitting in my mail box for probably a week or two; which means that now the short sale is probably going to go through sooner rather than later, and I've got to come up with an extra $1,400 a month to, you know, stay where I'm staying. It's like I don't even have the money or the credit worthiness to move. You know. Unless I went in as a roommate with someone and I'm too fucking old for that. And Jess's finally realized that she can't keep the house, so we're going to have to do a short sale on that, but there's a fucking IRS lien and a DOR lien. So I don't know how you short sale with that on the property. 
[06:24]
THERAPIST: She's not making enough money to keep the house?
CLIENT: Well she can't. I mean we owe a boat load of money and she hasn't been able to make mortgage payments for over a year. So she's got to come up with a way to you know, deal with that and she hasn't been able to. So...and she's fucking...I've got all these boxes from my...just all my past files are in the basement and she's like you've got to these boxes out of here. And it's like what the fuck? It's my house too, you know. Where am I going to put them? I don't have any place for storage? You know. My snow board's down there. I've got all kinds of shit there. Why are you focusing on these fucking boxes? They're going to stay there until the day we have to move out. I'm not fucking stacking them up carrying them up the stairs and moving them. She's just so fucking irrational. Everything is...you know it's like and she gets pissed off when I don't respond and it's like I don't want to respond because I don't want to get in a fight about it. The response means silence is I don't fucking care about it. It's not my issue right now, you know. 
[07:52]
So I got that yesterday afternoon. I was all anxious about that. I don't even remember what else was in the e-mail. I calmed down after I played. I almost fucking died last night. I don't know if it was the humidity, I was dehydrated or. I started seeing black spots and I'd get like chills. Think I had been dehydrated. But I had to drink a whole fucking Gatorade before I started playing and was drinking while I was playing. I don't know if it's the humidity that gets to me or what. I have a tournament this weekend. If I can't play one game, how am I going to play six, or seven, or eight? 
A lot has happened in the last 24 hours. A lot.
THERAPIST: Yeah.
CLIENT: The law firm that owes me almost $2,000 sends me a rush title that they need back by Friday. Rush? I was like sorry. It's not a big deal. I could probably get it done. I've got nothing else to do with my life, but I wouldn't be so upset about if they just paid me the money they owe me, you know.
THERAPIST: Right. So alright, let me get this straight. So it feels like you don't know who the hell you're going to be seeing for meds. There's a major problem with the short sale of the condo. And the shit may be hitting the fan around Jess not being able to keep the house. And you don't know how you short sale that because of the liens on it. 
[10:40]
CLIENT: And even if we...we don't have to do a short sale. That's not my fucking name, so I've got to go through one of these paperwork nightmares sending them all of my shit all over again which I'm just fucking tired of, you know. It's just a total fucking pain in the ass. I just...I mean if they paid off the tax liens as part of the short sale, that would be fucking awesome. I don't know if that's going to happen. I think if they foreclosed, I don't have to pay the liens off. There's something; I don't know there's something. As long as they give notice to the buyer who has sole DOR. I'm not sure how that shit works. It's a second mortgage which they're going to...God knows what they're going to want. 
I can't get out of bed in the morning. I just don't want to get out of bed. I've been sleeping until like 9:30 and 10 o'clock. Tomorrow I have to get up at just...it's easy when I have nothing to do. I did a title this morning and that was my work. And now I've got one more other title to do and I'll probably do that this afternoon. 
Jess just gave me two boxes of...plus some shit to take out of the office so she can move the furniture around. I'm still so fucking bitter about that. 
[13:35]
This fucking condo case I have in Superior Court where I'm going to have to do a trial, the judgment didn't...they still haven't entered the judgment, but the order for the judgment didn't mention attorney's fees, and I don't know what to do about that; whether I've got to do a motion to reconsider or you know—I don't know how to do any of this fucking shit, you know. I still haven't entered the judgment. Maybe I'll just fucking file the motion to reconsider. I don't know what I put in it. 
I'm entitled by the statute, the attorney's fees, but if they don't actually write out the word "attorney's fees," the clerk is not going to give me attorney's fees. I just have nothing pleasant, you know. 
THERAPIST: I think all the...pretty much everything you're listing out is kind of a way that you're [inaudible 15:16] and that you're either unsure of, overwhelmed by, or unable to deal with or set right. 
[15:36]
And I think part of what you're trying to make very clear to me is how completely impossible your situation is. 
CLIENT: It just keeps getting worse, you know. It just keeps getting worse. Nothing I do improves anything. You know. I can't even get out of my own way. 
THERAPIST: Well, I mean the things you're describing today are things that seems like you're in your own way on.
[19:14]
CLIENT: No, but I think I still, you know, I spend money I shouldn't. I don't know; I've got all this fucking free time and I'm not doing things I should be doing. I can't clean my own fucking apartment.
THERAPIST: I don't have the impression that you spend that much money that you shouldn't really in the scheme of things. I mean when you don't have any or your balance is negative, anything you spend is money that you don't have. I understand that. But you know, around food; you sometimes spend money to go do things like play in tournaments or you know, went away for the weekend that you usually enjoy or feel good about having done; and that, in the scheme of things, really don't cost that much. I mean there maybe things that I don't know about, but I don't have the impression that you're pretty irresponsible with money these days.
CLIENT: [inaudible 20:51] have none coming in, you know. 
THERAPIST: That's a huge problem; it's just a different problem. That's all I'm saying. It also Is not obvious to me what should doing with your free time that you're not doing? Okay, cleaning your apartment. But what else should you be doing?
CLIENT: I don't know; reconciling my accounts, closing out the partnership and getting all the paperwork to the accountant. I have a client who I should put his bill together and send the rest of his unused retainer back and just...all kinds of little shit like that.
THERAPIST: I mean none of that is really going to do that much for you to get done. I understand it's going to get it done, but we're not talking about some major way you're shooting yourself in the foot. 
[21:53]
CLIENT: I can't go shopping. I can't take a shower. I went and bought...I need to buy coffee and soap and if I went and bought these things, I wouldn't have to go and fucking spend $3 on a coffee twice a day. You get a pound of coffee for like $5 in Trader Joe's. And then now I've already spent all the money, so I don't even have the money to go buy $5 worth of coffee at Trader Joe's. 
THERAPIST: I mean, [inaudible 24:17] important, but the like that's the overriding thing is not having to [inaudible 24:23] that's two titles is your coffee all month. You know what I mean like; I know buying a pound of coffee, it saves you a few bucks but...
CLIENT: I don't know. It's all fucking the heads up. Just so many fucking little things I don't do feels overwhelming that I don't do them. 
THERAPIST: I guess it seems to me like the way bigger reasons things are difficult financially is because you don't have more work. And your spending money the way you spend money and the way you're not taking care of certain things, especially the way that you feel you're fucking up, at least in dollars and cents terms is so much smaller an issue than your just not having more work. 
[25:38]
I mean the spending money and not getting things done is here. Like not having more work is there. This isn't about you fucking up. 
Yeah, I mean [inaudible 28:27] to me like by far the biggest issue is how hard it is to find more work. 
CLIENT: And I'm only going to be running in to, you know, once you get to the fucking holidays, there is fucking nothing, you know. I'm going to have one closing this month. Going to make $500 bucks. My rent is $500. That's what that's going to.
THERAPIST: Right.
CLIENT: Can't pay my phone bill. Both my phone bills. Haven't paid for my website in months. I haven't paid my student loan in months. I'm three months behind with my landlord. Four months if you count August. 
THERAPIST: I assume you don't really see any options or alternatives or anything else you can be doing?
CLIENT: Get a job at the coffee shop, but I don't think they'd hire me. I don't even know how much money I'd make doing that. 
THERAPIST: Yeah, I remember you telling me that like there is absolutely no job market for [inaudible 31:56] practice. And that you couldn't really imagine like shifting over to try to work in other kinds of law. 
[32:30]
What's on your mind?
CLIENT: I don't know; just this fucking piece of paper I've got to get signed on this. The guy won't fucking sign it. I'm just sick of people. All he has to do is fucking sign the piece of paper. He's just not going to waste fucking time on stupid shit; just people being fucking stupid. Nothing improves. Things just keep getting worse. Just piling up on top of me. I've got no one to help me out; no one to bail me out. Just got nothing. I don't know what to do. It's something new every day. 
THERAPIST: I feel; this is making me think of three different things. One of which is how awful you're feeling. Another which is whether it would be helpful for us to talk more about like the practical side of what you could do to start making more money; not because I think I know anything or would have especially good ideas, but because [inaudible 39:56] talking some like, sometimes see things when you talk to me like how it's all in your head, you know. I know you thought a lot about it, but I wonder about that. And the third thing is, I mean it's all [inaudible 40:15] worry about your safety. Like [inaudible 40:22]. I mean I can certainly understand that you're feeling completely at the end of your rope. 
CLIENT: I have no idea what to keep; just be done with it. 
THERAPIST: In the past, you've mentioned the kids. 
[42:18]
CLIENT: I don't know; I barely see them. There's always Powerball; $350,000,000. 
THERAPIST: Okay.
CLIENT: $172,000,000.
THERAPIST: In general, I'd give you better odds than that.
CLIENT: What's that?
THERAPIST: I said in general, I'd give you better odds than that. We have to stop in a minute. [inaudible 46:38]. 
CLIENT: I don't know.
THERAPIST: [inaudible 47:26].
END TRANSCRIPT
