TRANSCRIPT OF AUDIO FILE:
______________________________________________________________________________
BEGIN TRANSCRIPT:
PATIENT: Long time.
COUNSELOR: A long time.
PATIENT: How long has it been?
COUNSELOR: Well, I think the last time...
PATIENT: A month and a half?
COUNSELOR: More than that. Last time was April 25th, so a little bit more than that.
PATIENT: Yeah, it has been a little hectic for me, you know. Just I feel like I'm getting more frustrated and I've been just going to the gym and punching the punching bag and that seems to help a lot more, yeah, so...
COUNSELOR: What, has stuff been going on in particular this last month?
PATIENT: Oh, yeah, lots been going on. I don't know, I've just gotten to a point where I feel like I don't want to talk about anything any more, you know. I just get more frustrated and I don't really think it's doing any good for me. I would have just cancelled over the phone. I just felt really bad about canceling, you know, for so long that I think I'd just come in in person and to mention it.
COUNSELOR: Well, it's been a really long time and I'm sure it wasn't easy having that kind of disruption, you know, how it gets out of the flow of it.
PATIENT: Well, things are changing. I mean I have to start looking for a job now; my unemployment ran out. You know, I'm looking for an apartment.
COUNSELOR: You're moving?
PATIENT: I'm thinking, yeah. I've been doing a lot of thinking and... I don't know. I just don't want to talk about nothing, you know. I don't even like talking to other people and I just figure everybody has problems and just go on, you know, deal with that as best you can. Nothing life threatening so... 0:02:09.1
COUNSELOR: How are you feeling right now just being here?
PATIENT: Oh, I'm just hot and, you know...
COUNSELOR: Not so easy?
PATIENT: And I really hate like just having to constantly reschedule and cancel and re... I'd just rather not deal with it at all, you know? Just gets me more frustrated. It's hot out there and then I hate subways, I really hate subways. Every time I'm in the subway I can't stand the people so...
COUNSELOR: Well, you know, my feeling was we've been working for a while; not too long but a little while. I guess we'd had about eight sessions, and some were rocky and some were I think good sessions. And then we had a break, and I think that that really was difficult in a sense that it disrupted the flow and it's kind of like cranking up the wheels and getting the vehicle moving again, it's hard, you know. And probably it is natural to have some feelings about there being a disruption like that.
PATIENT: I think the disruption made it easier for me to decide I could handle it with whatever means I need to use, I guess. I just feel like, by going over... It just seems like I'm just rehashing the same stuff over and over again. I don't leave with the feeling that - I don't leave with the feeling that I've come with something new, you know? It's something I felt and I've gone through and I don't know whether I'm just being really stubborn about it, you know. 0:04:18.1
COUNSELOR: Well, it's not easy to go through it, I don't think.
PATIENT: Pardon me. Just something I caught back here. Yeah. I don't know what to tell you.
COUNSELOR: How are you feeling right now with me just talking about it? Do you have a sense of what it is like?
PATIENT: I just feel very, you know, I think that's speeding up, like...
COUNSELOR: See, I think it would be really useful if you could try to talk a little bit about what it felt like having the treatment end and then being on your own and what that felt like and how you feel towards me right now. I think that would be useful if you could try to do that.
PATIENT: I mean it didn't affect me negatively with the fact that I haven't had any sessions in over a month and a half. I just feel like lately I don't have the time. And I know I do have the time, but I feel like I'm not at peace. I'm just constantly running around, you know. And since I've started working out I've been doing as much as I can for the last month and a half. I know it's been really crazy with between vacations and trying to find a house and going out to Big Rapids every week, so I just don't feel like I have any time for myself, you know? 0:06:34.7
COUNSELOR: Well, it sounds like you...
PATIENT: And I don't get home until 11 o'clock at night and even when I got away it doesn't feel relaxed, you know, doesn't feel like it is my time, and I want that.
COUNSELOR: You want your time.
PATIENT: Yeah, I want that time.
COUNSELOR: What would that time be like, if you could have it the way you would like to?
PATIENT: Just quiet time by myself. Whatever, you know. Cleaning, relaxing, bathing. I don't know. I know I have a tendency to go and make decisions that I may not have thought out all the way through, but I feel like I have. I thought about whether I want to continue this. Not that it's doing me more harm, but I don't really feel that I'm leaving here with a sense of accomplishment, you know. Like I said, I feel like I'm rehashing the same stuff.
COUNSELOR: Well, let me put it another way, because I'm wondering, and this is a question, you know, that I'm going to pose to you, but I'm wondering if you feel sort of this estranged from me right now and that that's contributing to not wanting to come back.
PATIENT: I don't think so, you know. You mean because like I haven't seen you in a while? 0:08:29.2
COUNSELOR: Well, it seems like the last session we actually touched on some important things and, you know, it's my feeling that it's like one has to start over again and it's not like we've spent that much time together. Well, we've had eight weeks, but in the scheme of things it's not a lot of time. It's a little time, but it's not a lot, you know, and it does feel a little like we meet again, having to... And one of the things you've talked about with me is hating to go into the story again and again and maybe there's a little feeling like you're going to have to do backtracking and go into that. 
PATIENT: I don't know. I guess one of the things is also I'm not 100 percent - I don't feel 100 percent comfortable, you know, with you.
COUNSELOR: I think that's important.
PATIENT: You know, and I don't know whether it's something that's in my head and I'm - you know, making me feel that way, but I don't - I don't feel at ease.
COUNSELOR: Would you like to go into that a little bit?
PATIENT: I just don't feel at ease, you know. It's just the difference in - maybe in your personality, I don't know. I feel very awkward, and...
COUNSELOR: Do you feel it right now?
PATIENT: Yeah. I mean I know that there are times when the session is flowing smoothly, you know, it's less of an awkward situation but I feel very awkward, you know.
COUNSELOR: What feels awkward? 0:10:21.1
PATIENT: You know, normally when I talk I like eye contacts, but I have a - I feel very uncomfortable.
COUNSELOR: Uncomfortable with me looking at you or you looking at me or...
PATIENT: Both.
COUNSELOR: Do you feel that we have to look at each other and you'd rather not or...
PATIENT: I mean, no, it's not that I feel that I have to, but I know I often do, for the most part, when I talk to people. And you know, there are some people that I'm uncomfortable looking at and then there are others that I don't have any problems with, you know, and I'm not sure what it is.
COUNSELOR: So you have a little discomfort looking at me sometimes.
PATIENT: Yeah. And it just... And yeah, it's uncomfortable.
COUNSELOR: What about me looking at you? What does that do?
PATIENT: That's very uncomfortable.
COUNSELOR: What's the feeling behind it?
PATIENT: Well, I feel bad, you know. I feel like you haven't done anything to make me feel that way. You haven't - you for the most part come off as being very understanding and I just - it just didn't click, it seems like, you know, and I think the break was more of an excuse and it just made it easier, because I hadn't seen you in a while to make that decision. I mean I don't think that's the only reason, but, you know, like I said, I do feel like I lack time for myself. I feel like I'm running around, just running around with appointments, you know. And this is an appointment I don't - if I can deal with not having to go through it, which I think I can, well, you know, like I'll end it. 0:12:42.8
COUNSELOR: Well, it sounds like you feel really uncomfortable with me.
PATIENT: Yeah, and I'm sorry. I don't know. And like I say, you haven't done anything, you know. You haven't said anything, done or said anything that would offend me, you know, but it's just...
COUNSELOR: Well, maybe it would be useful to sort of take a look at least today at - maybe you have some ideas about me and what I might be thinking that might make you feel uncomfortable. Maybe you think I have some ideas about you.
PATIENT: No. I mean I'm not... What's going through your head isn't part of my concern as to whether this would be a good session for me or not.
COUNSELOR: Well, what is going through your head?
PATIENT: Concerning that?
COUNSELOR: Yes. I mean what... 0:13:48.3 
PATIENT: Well, I felt it from the beginning, but I just thought it was because, you know, somebody new, and I guess I thought it was impolite and rude for me to make that kind of judgment on somebody else, especially the person that is supposed to be helping me, you know. So a lot of that was not so much suppressed, but just dealt with, you know? But if I'm not comfortable with it I don't know if I should have to continue, you know. I mean one of the things I thought about was, and I don't know whether this works, but try another therapist, or just not deal with it, because I'm not... Like I said, it doesn't seem to be a life-threatening thing and I just... Whatever I'm going through now is something I went through every time I go through a crisis.
COUNSELOR: What do you mean?
PATIENT: You know, a lot of the times when I'm going through a lot of hard time I just need to talk to somebody and I think it is more of not feeling I can talk to anybody, you know, because there is always a fear of not saying certain things, things I should be saying to other people, you know, things that are private or whatever, and maybe if I talk to somebody who I don't really know it just makes it easier.
COUNSELOR: Uh-huh. Why would that make it easier?
PATIENT: Well, when you don't know somebody you can - there's really no way - I mean there can be, but there's really no way for it to somehow come back and haunt you, you know. You're not really related to anybody I know on a day-to-day basis so it is less of a threat. If I talk to somebody I know every day about my personal problems it may somehow get back to me or somebody.
COUNSELOR: Right, whereas I'm an unrelated person.
PATIENT: So... And I just realized that's what I do a lot of the times. I need to just voice it, I need to talk about it, and it just came to a point where I'm talking like the same thing all the time and I'm just - I just don't want to do it any more. I just don't want to talk about it any more. 0:16:38.1
COUNSELOR: Maybe you need to.
PATIENT: I don't think it's helping me. I really don't think it's... It hasn't made me change my behavior. It hasn't made me aware of anything new that I haven't been aware of before. I think there was maybe one instance where a light bulb went off or went on, but I don't remember what it was about. 
For the most part, it's something I already know. It's something, you know, I know what I should do and shouldn't do. It's just being indecisive and not knowing what to do is more of a frustration, you know. I'm a pretty insightful person I think and that's the way this therapy is directed. You know, it's about your feelings, you know, what you're going through now, and I know that. I don't need to talk about it, you know. I don't know if I make any sense.
COUNSELOR: Well, I think you're talking about a lot of really important things, but I can't help feeling that you have some upset feelings with me.
PATIENT: No. I'm not like upset at you for any reason. You know, not you as a person, but in a therapy situation I just - I don't... 0:18:24.0
COUNSELOR: I mean I'm sort of the person that you've been talking to, and you're talking to me, I'm talking to you. It's very likely that you would have some feelings about talking to me about these things. You know what? My sense is you're going through a difficult time right now, and I'm wondering, you know, if you want to sort of pull back because it's really hard. This is the sort of time when it is most difficult to talk about stuff.
PATIENT: I kind of sense that that's what you were going to think, you know. I didn't want to bring it up because I didn't want to... Because if I do say it then you'd think that it's a defense mechanism, you know. But I kind of sense that you would feel that the reason why I'm pulling back now is because we've touched on subjects that I don't want to deal with or it's too painful for me to deal with and I really don't think that's the case.
COUNSELOR: Well, I think - I don't know. I mean you might be right; it's a thought. I mean I think that there's also discomfort, but I think the discomfort is not happening in thin air. You know, I mean this is a therapeutic setting and you would come here and talk about yourself, which is not easy, and some of the discomfort has to do with that very nature of our relationship. 
So you know, I have to think in these terms, when we've had a long absence and you're going through a really hard time and you've said here that you need to talk, and I have to think, well, maybe some of the discomfort right now is feeling that you need to talk but it's really hard to talk. It's hard to talk with me and it's hard to talk about yourself and it's probably really frustrating. 0:20:21.4
PATIENT: Maybe. Just that everything gets so psychoanalyzed. I mean just the fact I'm sitting here playing with my sunglasses.
COUNSELOR: Why, what does that mean?
PATIENT: Who the hell knows? You know, people can interpret it as... I know I get fidgety when I'm in an uncomfortable situation, so if I had a piece of paper I would be tearing it into little bits of papers. But people would look at it like she's nervous and she's hiding something or she's lying or, you know. So I guess in all therapy situations there's a lot of analyzing going on, you know, using the theories, so that's what I get just a little upset about. You know, everything gets analyzed.
COUNSELOR: So you're saying that maybe you think I'm analyzing you.
PATIENT: Not just you, but that's just therapy in itself.
COUNSELOR: Right now.
PATIENT: That's why I'm getting frustrated with the idea of therapy, you know, and...
COUNSELOR: Well, it can't be very pleasant if you feel that somebody's got you under a microscope and watching every move and sort of going through sort of theory and trying to figure out what it means.
PATIENT: Yeah, but that's what usually ends up happening.
COUNSELOR: Is that what you feel is happening? I mean is that um-hmm, well, I wasn't thinking about your sunglasses actually. I was admiring your sandals though. 0:22:08.4
PATIENT: Oh, thank you. Yeah, I wish I remember where I bought them. Somewhere in California. I don't know, I guess I'm at a point where I have to decide if... I'd rather that I didn't continue, and I don't know how this whole 30-session thing works, you know, and I don't know if it's possible to see a different therapist, first of all, and whether or not - if that's possible, you know, I'd have to figure out if I want to continue with the therapy session. When I spoke with you on Thursday I just really didn't want to. I really didn't want to continue. You know, you did catch me at a very bad time. I had just walked in about five minutes before and it was not a good situation. I mean not that you purposely called at a bad time. I'm just saying I think the reason why I may have said I don't want to continue was because it was just I got very flustered about everything that's going around me. But I know that I have to think about whether I'm going to continue the therapy sessions, and if I do, you know...
COUNSELOR: Well, maybe we could talk just a little bit about what would be most helpful for you and really sort of look at what would really be helpful for you right now, what you need or what you want. If you could give me a sense of what that is. 0:24:07.2
PATIENT: When I first started this session I thought I was going to have all sorts of free time, because I really wasn't working, and for some reason it didn't turn out that way, you know. I always felt like I was being pulled in all sorts of different directions and it just felt like rather than looking forward to like... As I look forward to going to work out, like I'm going to tonight, I was dreading the sessions. Most of the time, not all of the time, but a lot of the times. And I don't think - I think of the combination of a lot of things. I really hate taking subways, I just do not enjoy it at all, and I feel like I'm putting myself in a situation where it's going to get me aggravated, which is unnecessary. And two was I felt like I just didn't have the time, you know, and things would pop up. And I try not to make changes at the last minute, because it's not fair to you, you know, but it seemed like that's what was happening, and something would pop up at this place and they asked me to stay late or - and it would always happen at the last minute and that just like made it worse, because I felt that and I felt like I was being pulled. So it just makes me feel like I have less of a time for myself, you know. And right now, because I'm job searching, I'm looking for apartments, you know, I'm applying for a school, so just a lot of things are going on, you know. 0:26:05.3
COUNSELOR: Would it be possible to talk a little bit about what's going on right now?
PATIENT: Well, I'm planning on going into Pre-med program at Michigan State. I don't want to - I don't want to do what I'm doing now, which is clerical stuff or bank stuff or, you know...
COUNSELOR: That's a big move.
PATIENT: Yeah. I went into that because I thought of two other professions before that, which was going back into teaching, not as a lecturer because I've done that and I didn't like it, but in a managerial supervisory type of position in a school, where you have more of a say in what happens with your students, you know. Teachers, they're just puppets that have to do what they have to do. Decision making comes from management and that's what I wanted to do, but in looking into it I also didn't want - I know it's emotionally exhausting and it is a lot of hours, which I'm willing to put in, but not for the kind of money that I've seen. I've checked around with a bunch of teachers and looked in the newspaper ads, and the salary that I'm looking at was just salary that I was getting paid 10 years ago. 
So I thought about going into physician's assistant, which it is in the field of medicine, pretty much like a doctor without having to go through a four-year degree, and you do stuff that are similar to doctors, you know, but you have your limitations. So I looked into that and I did some research and visited the hospital and talked to a few of them, and turns out that they only have a Bachelor's program. It's usually for people going right from high school into a BA degree. 0:28:28.8 
So I already have my Bachelor's, which means I wouldn't be able to get any government assistance or grants or anything like that, and I don't have the money to pay for that, so that's why I went into pre-med. It's still within the field of medicine. And you know, I've talked to some interns and they say that physician's assistants are becoming more important, the role, doing a lot more than just changing bed pans.
COUNSELOR: That's true.
PATIENT: And you know, the salary is decent and I can go into a Master's program. Michigan State has this program that it is offered to people that have a Bachelor's degree in non-nursing. But it's like combining a Bachelor's degree in pre-med and Master's degree in nursing so it's fairly extensive and that's what I'm planning to do, so I've gotten brochures and I'm planning on applying and I have to work on my GRA and all of that.
COUNSELOR: So that's one major change. The other thing you mentioned was that you are getting an apartment. What's that? 0:29:47.5
PATIENT: Well, I've done some... When Paul and I went to California we looked around for a house and we found a house that we wanted and it seemed like everything was going well and, well, like normally, like what I usually do is when everything is going well I somehow fuck it up, you know, so... So we got into some stupid argument and we got into this really bad, bad fight. In fact, the night that you called we had just come back. We spent four hours fighting and... I think that it would be better if I moved out, you know, and got my own place. Rather than going into a house I have some money saved up that was originally going to go towards the down payment of the house. I'll use that until I find a job. 
I mean it's not a question of whether I love him or don't love him. I know I do love him. It just... I don't want to be in a situation where I have all the... I don't have any of the advantages of being married, but all the disadvantages, you know, and he's still not sure. I mean he doesn't want to get married. He doesn't want to get married, but he continues to say, "That doesn't mean I won't marry you," and I just don't feel right about that.
COUNSELOR: So then that's been going on for a while.
PATIENT: Well, you know, he and I have been together for five years now.
COUNSELOR: But I mean this sort of saying he will marry you but doesn't.
PATIENT: Yeah, and I think... I can understand his concern, because the way he's seeing it, which is the way I've been behaving, is that when things are not really going all that well I want out of the relationship, and you know, for somebody who is going to say "I want out of the relationship," you know, you don't want to do that, you don't want to get married to that kind of person, you know. 0:32:11.5
I guess what he doesn't understand is that what he's been telling me is when you're not married it's a lot easier to get out so that's exactly what I'm doing. We're not married. Why put myself through the misery of trying to work it out when I've been trying for so long. And I asked him, I said, "I would just like to get my own place. We can still see each other." He said if I move out that we won't see each other at all, but that's a chance I'm willing to take.
So that's what I've been doing. I've been looking at the apartment. And so now that he knows I'm looking through papers, you know, now he doesn't want me to do it. And it just becomes very hard when someone is really nice to you, for you to do something really shitty, but I have a feeling I'm going to be moving out in the next couple of months.
COUNSELOR: And how do you feel about that?
PATIENT: I mean, you know, I'm scared, and my fear is, I guess, more of being alone, you know, and I know that once I am by myself I'll be fine, but I don't want to make the same mistake. My fear isn't so much being alone for a while, because I know that's going to happen and I don't mind being alone for a while. It's more of if I do find somebody else down the road, you know, there's so many shitheads out there. You know, there's no guarantee that I'll meet anybody nice and I know that Paul is - he's a good guy, you know, in many, many ways. It just... You know, am I, what is that saying, jumping out of a fire to jump into the frying pan or something? 0:34:19.7
COUNSELOR: Yes.
PATIENT: You know, something slippin (ph) and that's my fear. Not so much that I won't find somebody else. I just am tired of going through every five years in a relationship...
COUNSELOR: What, the fear of jumping into the frying pan, you're saying?
PATIENT: Yeah.
COUNSELOR: What do you imagine that would be?
PATIENT: Well, somebody worse than Paul, you know... You know, I've had guys a lot worse than Paul so... And it's more of a - and this is something... I'll talk to somebody who has lived more years than I have, just from experience, whether or not the things that I want or would think I want in a relationship are those realistic expectations, you know. Because you could have expectations that could be unrealistic and they'll just make you miserable, you know. You can either accept the fact that I have unrealistic expectations, and change, or hope that maybe there's somebody out there who will meet my expectations. So that's a little bit scary. I'm not scared about moving out and being on my own, you know, so that's the second thing. And then my employment ran out about a month ago so I have to start looking for a job and that ends that. 0:36:10.2
COUNSELOR: A lot.
PATIENT: Well, it's a lot of things, because everything is happening at the same time, you know. If I wasn't moving out I could live there and go to school and maybe get a part-time job or go and get a job. I mean if I do go to school I plan to either take out a loan or get some grants or aids or something. But if I move out then the school has to be put on hold or I'll have to live with somebody like my sister, which I really don't want to do. But the more I put on hold it just... It's just that timing, the timing just stinks.
COUNSELOR: Yes, you're feeling pressure to do it all at once.
PATIENT: Well, my problem is I always feel like I have to have a solution as soon as I know that there's a problem, you know, and I think you mentioned that, you know. I don't always have to have the answers right away, but I try to achieve that answer as soon as I can. So yes, I've put a lot of pressure on myself, you know.
COUNSELOR: Well, I think that's what you're saying about here, working with me; you see a problem and your solution is just not to continue. But I think sometimes, you know, I think it's important to take a look at sort of all the feelings of turmoil that get churned up when you're in a situation that doesn't feel so comfortable, because that can be useful and the reasons why things are uncomfortable, you know, whether uncomfortable, the reasons are useful to look at. And I mean it's not easy to sort of leave a relationship, get a new place, start a new career, which entails going back to school, all at once, and... 0:38:22.1
PATIENT: Yes, but I just feel like if I don't move out, I mean... If I move out then the decision is made for me in the sense that I know I won't go back to school right away. So you know, it's almost like I just had to make a final decision.
COUNSELOR: If you don't move out...
PATIENT: If I move out I have to get a job.
COUNSELOR: But are you thinking of not moving out?
PATIENT: Well, I think what I'm doing is I'm waiting, and then I keep waiting and hoping that he'll see it differently, and then that's the situation I feel like I'm in now but that's part of me. And then there's another part of me that we went through this already once or twice before, yeah. So it's not like, you know, a foolish part of me is still thinking, well, he'll change, and the more realistic part of me is saying this sounds like the same song and why torture yourself more? Just accept the fact that this is the way it is and just go ahead with your life, you know, I mean.
COUNSELOR: But if one has to sing the same song, which sometimes we do before we can sort of move on to the next situation, that's going to be uncomfortable because it's going to feel like the same old song. You know what I'm saying?
PATIENT: Moving on.
COUNSELOR: Well, I mean if you don't move on, you know, moving on is a new song, but as you're saying, you might need somebody who is like him or worse. But if you do stay in the situation, then it does feel like it's the same old song, and talking about it is not going to be easy, it's going to be feeling like you're going over the same old stuff. 0:40:15.8
PATIENT: Yeah, it is the same old stuff, you know. And my problem is that I like... See, I make decisions what seems to other people like a sudden decision, because I'll say it suddenly, but that's something I've thought about for a long time in my head.
COUNSELOR: Leaving him.
PATIENT: You know, yeah.
COUNSELOR: Yeah, I know.
PATIENT: I mean it has just been going back and forth. And I've heard the story of if I stayed on... Nothing changed, you know. The only difference was that when I stayed I was the one that changed. I was the one who didn't talk about certain things as much. You know, I didn't bring up the marriage, I didn't bring up the kids, you know, just went on every day, and I'm thinking that doesn't seem right for me. I mean he's questioning why can't you just leave things the way they are, and for me that's just not good enough. And that's what I need to find out from people who have lived a long time and who seem to have a satisfactory life. Is that the thing to do? If everything is going well, do you just leave it alone or do you try to make it better?
COUNSELOR: Well, I think you're saying it's not going well.
PATIENT: It's going wonderfully if I don't say anything, you know, if I suppress my desires. 0:42:11.7
COUNSELOR: But that's not your nature. 
PATIENT: No. You know, so it will be good for a few months, six months maybe, and then it will pop up again, and then we'll go through the same thing over again. So you know, and this is like the third time, so how many times do I have to do this? And am I going to be still doing this when I'm 40 years old, you know? So that's my fear. And a lot of people say, "Well, if you're happy don't do nothing." "But I want to be married." "Well, why do you want to be married? What's the difference between the piece of paper? I mean what makes the relationship better because you have that piece of paper?" I don't know why. I just want to be married. That's always been very important to me and I can't seem to get that across. 
There isn't any logical explanation as to why I want to be married. It's just that feeling comes from my heart, you know. And if I don't talk about marriage, if I don't talk about the possibility of kids, if I don't talk about we don't spend enough time together physically, then everything is wonderful, and he is wonderful in every aspect, but I feel like I've been in this relationship for 40 years, like I'm 60 years old, you know? I mean that's... You know, when two people - when a couple gets old together as a couple, they have a very good relationship because they know each other, they know their likes and dislikes and it's very comfortable, it's very friendly, but I don't want to be in a relationship where I feel like I'm 60 years old. And I say yeah, if I met you maybe 10 years from now it will be wonderful, but for right now I have other needs. 0:44:11.7
So it's like when I was really angry it was very easy for me to say I'm leaving, you know, but then he's been really nice to me since Thursday and he just makes it harder. But that hasn't changed. That hasn't changed what I want to do. It's just he's making it harder for me to move out and I don't know...
COUNSELOR: So you feel more pulled in that direction to...
PATIENT: Well, I feel like he's making his effort now, he's trying, so I'm doing the bad thing to him if I leave, you know. But I know it's going to be temporary so...
COUNSELOR: Well, those are important feelings though. I mean...
PATIENT: I mean I wish he'd just be a bastard and that just makes it a lot easier. Then I can just say, you know, "Fuck you," I'll walk out. Once I move out then it is done, you know, there's no turning back. I'd rather live with the mistakes I've made than not knowing if I'm making mistakes or not.
COUNSELOR: You'd rather live with the mistakes than what?
PATIENT: I'd rather live with the mistake that I make, whether knowingly or not. Like for example, if me moving out was a mistake, I can live with that, but I can't live with what's going on now, because it's not a decision I made. You know what I'm saying?
COUNSELOR: Um-hmm.
PATIENT: It's like non-decision decision.
COUNSELOR: Yes. Not easy.
PATIENT: So those are the things that are going on in my life and I do feel like I'm being pushed and pulled and... 0:46:21.9
COUNSELOR: Well, Nicola, my feeling is you're going through a lot, and whatever you want to do, of course, is up to you. But I certainly would like to continue with you at least for a little while just to see how it goes as you're going through this and talk a little bit more. I would sort of hate to see you stop treatment right now at this particular point. You know, of course...
PATIENT: I mean you don't think any of these things I can handle by myself?
COUNSELOR: Well, I think you're very capable, but I think that it is good to talk and you have a lot of feelings both ways and...
PATIENT: Well, see, that's what I'm saying. That's all it is, is just the talk. It doesn't help me make the decision. It doesn't help me to see things any more clearer. I mean I see it. I just... I don't...
COUNSELOR: Well, it's not always just a question of seeing it, but feeling okay about what you do see, and then it's quite clear the kinds of choices one has to make. But it's not quite so black and white in my mind. You know, I know you're feeling a lot of pressure now to make decisions, but the pressure comes from somewhere, you know, those come from feelings that you're having that I think are important and maybe not so available to look at. You know, one can be very sort of quick to make decisions, but sometimes in the quickness you lose track of what you're really feeling in terms of making them and I think that's where therapy can really be useful. You know, it's... When you're at a place where you feel a lot of pressure to do a lot of things, to me that is a sign that, you know, we'll need to really explore a little bit more. 0:48:22.6
PATIENT: Were you able to find out about Fridays?
COUNSELOR: Which time? You mean the early...
PATIENT: I think the... What was it, 9:30 you said?
COUNSELOR: Oh, I can make it 9 to 10, I can do that. This is not a good time today?
PATIENT: I just... I don't know what it is. Every time I'm in the subway I just - my attitude gets like up...
COUNSELOR: Every time you're what?
PATIENT: I'm in the subway.
COUNSELOR: Um-hmm, well, yeah. Okay, well, so maybe it's going to be that you come in a state of, you know - in a state, meaning it's hard to get here.
PATIENT: Just trying to... I could make 9 o'clock on Fridays. What time do you usually come in on Fridays? 0:50:21.5
COUNSELOR: Around then. Now, yes, okay. That's a good time basically in general, because I can make arrangements to do that if you want to do that time. It won't be in this room, but that doesn't matter. Why don't we... What's today, Monday? Why don't we see each other Friday this week?
PATIENT: Okay.
COUNSELOR: And we can talk a little bit more about this. 0:51:17.6
END TRANSCRIPT
