TRANSCRIPT OF AUDIO FILE:
______________________________________________________________________________
BEGIN TRANSCRIPT:
CLIENT: Yeah. (laughter) I—it occurred to me today that I'm treating what you say to me rather as though it were director's notes for a show that I'm working on. And I say oh yeah, okay that makes sense and then try to play a better more realistic version of myself. And maybe that's a problem? Isn't it? (laughter)
THERAPIST: So, so—like you're in a show and you're playing yourself and I'm providing you with director's notes that help to give you a better idea of how to do that? [00:01:16]
CLIENT: Yeah. Yeah. Yeah, you kind of repeat it back to me and I hope that it will be less accurate or what you just repeated back to me, I, I was hoping it would sound less accurate when you said it out loud, but no. (laughter)
I just don't like myself very much today. (crying) Oh—yeah. I'm, I'm tired of being the kind of person who is sad like this all the time or much of the time. But, also being the kind of person who—it can persuade myself into—not feeling sad like this so much of the time. I don't know. [00:02:47]
I was having lunch—I had lunch today with my advisor at school and I was—and it just occurred to me, you know, she really envisions me as going back to university after this year and my Hebrew teacher, really envisions me as teaching high school somewhere. It's what he did. It's a good thing to do and, you know, when I'm talking to each of them I really, you know, I want to do what they want me to do.
And like when I'm by myself I actually have a hard time figuring out what I want to do all of the time. Or, you know, what I really want to do is not be alive and that doesn't seem viable. You know, or when I'm doing this actually what I really want to do is just watch TV all day (laughter) or read books all day. Yeah. [00:04:09]
But—recognizing that I kind of adapt my picture of who I am to other, what other people seem to, to the, the visions of me that other people have that I like recognizing that doesn't make it stop. Yeah—and, you know, so we kind of talk and, and you'll say "well it sounds like this is going on" and that will, you know, make, that will kind of click in some very satisfying way in my head and I think yes, that makes sense. Then I try to change my behavior to be healthier, whatever that seems to me to be at the time, but it doesn't seem to quite be addressing, it doesn't seem to help. Oh. I'm very tired today. [00:05:58]
(silence from [00:05:58] to [00:06:51)
THERAPIST: I am—what you're saying I think about a sort of like, what do you call it? Like a compliance, although that term didn't entirely capture it. Sounds like to me that makes sense. Like I understand what you mean and I guess I'm wondering what's in doing it that way for you?
CLIENT: What's in, what's—
THERAPIST: What's in it for you? Could you explain that? [00:07:38]
CLIENT: Oh, okay. Yeah. People like me and I tend to trust other people's judgment more than my own. I, I feel like there's a direction for me to go—but, I mean the rest of the time, I, I'm really not aware that I'm doing it and so—what's in it for me is hard to work out.
THERAPIST: Sure. [00:08:51]
CLIENT: Oh.
THERAPIST: Maybe—I think maybe you're trying to keep making this deal which was sort of like better safe in life than honest. As far as— [00:09:58]
CLIENT: Yeah, but honest is tricky.
THERAPIST: Okay.
CLIENT: I was reading somewhere somebody talking about politics today saying people throw the word hypocrisy around a lot, but really it, it's not a very useful word because what politicians do now and you know, maybe they've always done it, is, is they convince themselves of, to a contradictory things that to, that, you know, they're being sincere. It's just that they were also sincere when they said something completely different. So, how (inaudible at 00:10:55) is that? [00:10:58]
THERAPIST: I see.
CLIENT: You know I am sincerely happy to talk to 500 people a day at work, but it takes a lot of work. (laughter) So, but I, I think it's kind of—I mean you're trying to say something and I kind of went somewhere else with it and I don't know if you had something else you wanted to say. [00:11:38]
THERAPIST: So, maybe you felt a little uncomfortable with our seeing it could be that differently?
CLIENT: Maybe. I sound like I interrupted you and, you know, like obviously what you have to say is more important than what I have to say, you know.
THERAPIST: Really?
CLIENT: (laughter) —And the thing I've been the most aware of really wanting to do in the last, I don't know, couple of weeks is to hurt myself, but I haven't been doing that. So, that's what I want.
THERAPIST: What do you want to do? [00:13:21]
CLIENT: Cut myself. Kill myself—until I die. A lot of the time. You know, not enough that I don't want to (inaudible at 00:13:51) not enough that wanting to not to disappoint James isn't stronger. Yeah.
THERAPIST: Yeah. Which is resulting in you not?
CLIENT: Yeah, but, yeah or maybe it's just that that's the thing that I want and I'm not doing and that's the reason that I and it's preoccupying me, but. Everything that I kind of desire that I'm most aware of. You know, physically like when I want to eat, I eat.
THERAPIST: I see. Great. Because if you didn't, you'd probably get preoccupied with that eventually. What do you imagine? [00:14:48]
CLIENT: Do what?
THERAPIST: Cutting yourself.
CLIENT: I don't know. I try not to think about it in terms of like, like I try not to visualize it—and that's the thing though—and then I cut myself. It's a lot.
THERAPIST: Like, your arms, your legs?
CLIENT: Arms and legs mostly. Neck. Yeah. Yeah. You know, I have a fairly realistic imagination, so there's always the imagining me cutting myself very deeply, but then, thinking actually, you know, it really hurts. (laughter) It is actually hard to injure yourself because it hurts, but—you know, I have imagined cutting myself with a knife that's big enough that it would just kind of go, it would not take as much willpower to cut deeply as it does. I don't know if that makes sense.
THERAPIST: Sure. [00:17:07]
CLIENT: And it's not like—it doesn't make any sense. Or it doesn't make sense to me. So, it's hard for me to talk about. Hard for me to speak about verbally. You know the pushing of it. Yeah, I think about cutting myself when I think about something that makes me feel guilty. There are a lot things that make me feel guilty. Yeah. A lot of things that don't externally actually have anything to do with me make me feel guilty. [00:18:44]
Yeah—I get very angry when everyone starts not wanting me to die. [00:19:40]
And I get very angry with myself for not being able to just not think about it or, you know, just not be sad. (crying, blowing nose)
THERAPIST: How does it go in your head when you're angry at people for that?
CLIENT: I wish you would just give up on me because it seems very clear to me that—they're—that, that they want something out of me that I can't give. I just want people to leave me alone. That's why I'm tired. It's very hard to play myself. [00:22:20]
THERAPIST: I would imagine you, at least in part, want me to leave you alone with that about this.
CLIENT: Yeah. Yeah. I don't know how to—I have to learn how to say what I want to say and, and how I don't like talking about cutting myself. [00:23:24]
Yeah, it's um, I was you there for a second there, but um—. (laughter and crying) I keep trying to follow.
THERAPIST: Is that what you were referring to when you said you don't know how to say what you want to say or were you afraid to fail?
CLIENT: No, I was—I was just hoping (inaudible at 00:24:27) what I was thinking about today that I wanted to talk to you about, but I, I—. Well, I can't remember what I was thinking about now, but also, it just, like it, I couldn't make sentences out of them and-and, you know, I often periodically wonder whether I'm making all of this up. You know, whether I feel like the expectation is that I come in and talk and until I just make up things to talk about. [00:25:25]
THERAPIST: I think that the communication from both of us that sometimes it feels like bullshit.
CLIENT: Not when we're here, but in—like the connection with the rest of my life isn't always there or isn't always clear. You know I always make friends very easy, but I deal with a lot of stuff.
(Silence from [00:26:24] to [00:27:31)
THERAPIST: Okay, very good. So, but-my train of thought I guess probably the best way I can explain what's on my mind. So, I said, you know, whamp-wha (ph), like paying attention to both of us is just bullshit and you said, well not at first, and you said almost reflexively I think it was "well I'm here". And then you said, you know-
CLIENT: Not, reflexively, but yes. 
THERAPIST: Okay. And then said something like "you know I see a lot of like, you know like, when I say it here it sounds true to me, but while other things I say sound true at the time". Something kind of along those lines as I recall it. So, my first thought was that all may be true, but the way you put it sounds like a kind of another issue that we're talking about where I have said something about your saying something. 
CLIENT: Yeah, I know what you mean. [00:28:58]
THERAPIST: Alright. And then I thought well what's going to happen if I point that out, and— 
CLIENT: This is getting really meta. 
THERAPIST: Right and I think I have another point to make. And so, I said well, I think what you do is probably agree or, you know, similarly kind of agreeable or complaint kind of way probably chastise yourself a little bit and back off a bit and I don't mean physicality. 
CLIENT: No, no, yeah. (laughter) That sounds exactly like what I would say. 
THERAPIST: And so then my next thought was so actually the complying keeps you from getting insight to what happened. You're busier agreeing in a way than learning. You know, like it seems like lying because you're agreeing. And it's not quite that you don't see it, but it's more like, I think at some level, it's, it's the agreeing takes away from the like learning and it, it also removes it from you. [00:30:41]
CLIENT: Yeah. Yeah, okay. So, so, that, that pattern that you're talking about, like I'm noticing that happening. Like I'm seeing it happening also, but it feels, I feel like you want me to do something and I just don't know that it's there or like I don't really think you want something to happen and I don't like it. I don't feel like it's going to happen or I don't—
THERAPIST: I guess that's the heart of it isn't' it? That you feel like I want something to happen or that I feel-
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: —like you're supposed to do something 
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: And you can't and you don't know what it is. [00:31:32]
CLIENT: Yeah, I don't know why. 
THERAPIST: I guess it's something. I guess it's something I'm not saying. Probably something to do with getting better or something like that.
CLIENT: (laughter)
THERAPIST: Probably why can't I just do that? Yeah. 
CLIENT: I, I guess I feel like you expect things. That recognizing a pattern in me is going to be the change in the pattern for me and I don't think that it is leading to that. Yeah. [00:33:03]
THERAPIST: Right and I'm saying one reason that may be happening is because of-what we are we talking about. 
CLIENT: That you, that I agree with you in order to agree with you.
THERAPIST: For me it immediately feels sort of like what I've said entails dictates you to do something which then leaves you feeling at a loss and not good enough and overwhelmed. 
CLIENT: Yeah-yeah. Yeah and I keep expecting it to resolve itself in to something for me, but it isn't. [00:34:36]
(silence from [00:34:36] to [00:35:38)
CLIENT: I'm stuck. 
THERAPIST: It almost sounds like— 
CLIENT: Yeah, hard. Yeah. I mean, you know, I kind of just, I want to back off of it just because it's mentally tiring and I'm mentally tired. 
THERAPIST: So, you're inclined to do something you want to do, but now that I've said that I guess it complicates things. [00:36:50]
CLIENT: Yeah, seriously. (laughter) Yeah, because then if I keep thinking about it, it also, I also need a turn against myself and feel guilty. And then I think about hurting myself. 
THERAPIST: (inaudible at 00:37:42)
CLIENT: You know, I am frustrated with you about more and a sense of like I can't figure it out. Like, I can't figure out where you're going with this-yeah.
THERAPIST: Like as in what point I'm trying to make? 
CLIENT: Yeah. More a point you're trying to make. What this is supposed to do for me or how it, I am supposed to react to it. (laughter) But, yeah, it doesn't go away, so, you know, maybe I dismiss it because I want to stop approaching the problem like that, but I don't stop because I wanted to still stop dealing with problems and stop, you know, something new—and it's like well that obviously can't be right, you know. (laughing) [00:39:39]
THERAPIST: Where, if you stop, what then?
CLIENT: Can we talk about something else? 
THERAPIST: I sense I make you a bit anxious. 
CLIENT: Yeah, I guess so. I mean I'm doing the fingers thing. I mean I'm, I'm doing the thing where I'm playing with my fingers like I do when I'm anxious, but I don't feel anxious.
THERAPIST: I see.
CLIENT: (laughter) Yeah and then I'm pretty much back at square one because I can't figure this out. [00:41:38]
I want to tell you something totally different than what we started talking about and by this point I'm tired. You know, I mean feel like I'm trying to memorize three chapters worth of Hebrew in a day and that kind of mental, you know, it's the dogs and trees are mixed up sort of thing. 
THERAPIST: You mean like mix up the words?
CLIENT: Yeah, yeah. [00:42:49]
THERAPIST: I'm trying to remember the Hebrew word for tree which I once knew because of the holiday and then I forget. 
CLIENT: I don't think there's a specific word for tree. I think there's just words for different kinds and there are some books here. 
THERAPIST: I guess I mean and I follow your point is this really becomes an intellectual problem. One that you get. Kind of tied up in knots over-
CLIENT: Yeah, because it becomes an intellectual problem, but I recognize that it's not be or that it is not actually an intellectual problem and so I'm trying to kind of undermine that detachment from it in myself, but does that mean I just can't do anything with it?
THERAPIST: Right. So, I guess without that you're kind of shut down.
CLIENT: Without what? [00:44:20]
THERAPIST: Without sort of getting in your head about it.
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: You're kind of shut down and, and don't know where to go. 
CLIENT: Yeah. Yeah. You know, yes, I think if I don't-if I don't let myself think about it as though I were somebody else. Yeah. And those were somebody else's problems.
THERAPIST: We're going to stop for now.
CLIENT: Okay.
END TRANSCRIPT
