TRANSCRIPT OF AUDIO FILE:
______________________________________________________________________________
BEGIN TRANSCRIPT:
CLIENT: Hello.
THERAPIST: Hi.
CLIENT: I started filling this out but didn't get very far.
THERAPIST: That's okay. Do you want to finish it out up here?
CLIENT: Sure. I wasn't sure … I could do it after if you want.
THERAPIST: I like it before because then I have a better kind of picture of what's going on …
CLIENT: Okay.
THERAPIST: … because [some people go all better for something.] (ph) (chuckling)
CLIENT: (inaudible) that pencil.
THERAPIST: Uh, here.
CLIENT: Is that the same one? I just read … I will never … I should … well, I will never "should" on myself.
THERAPIST: Yeah. (chuckling)
CLIENT: I just read that. I thought it was funny.
THERAPIST: I need some of those. They didn't give them to me.
CLIENT: Yeah, there's one down the street (ph).
(silence while client fills out a form)
[0:02:35.9'
THERAPIST: Great. Thank you. So one more thing before we get started. I just wanted to ask you … I think I … did I talk to you about the tape … the recordings before? How there's some research group that wants to collect a series of REBT sessions?
CLIENT: Um … Caitlin, I think, had mentioned that when I first started.
THERAPIST: Oh really? I don't know. This is a new one. So maybe there was something that was (inaudible) before. But it just says that you would give permission and it would be used just for me and you and their inclusion in their database. But all your tapes would be coded by your number, not your name.
CLIENT: Oh, okay.
THERAPIST: So it would be confidential. Do you feel comfortable doing that?
CLIENT: Um … I guess, I mean (inaudible)
THERAPIST: You guess? It would really all be confidential. It would just be that someone would be listening to the sessions. But I think it's really more for listening to how I conduct REBT rather than what you say.
CLIENT: Oh, okay.
THERAPIST: So there will be, like, coding how I'm doing things. It's really more of a … issue with me. I should be the one who's stressed out! But … uh … yeah, thank you. I appreciate it, because I have a lot of tapes from you, so I thought you would be a good person to use. You know, some people don't always come and they (inaudible).
Did the pen stop working?
CLIENT: (inaudible) Oh, I think it's … it's kind of like in and out, but that's good.
THERAPIST: I blame Fred Gilbert, whose desk this is. Good enough? [0:04:22.0]
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: All right. Thank you. So what happened last week again?
CLIENT: Oh, well last week … wait, which one was last week?
THERAPIST: Last week, the 7th or … yeah. Today's the 14th. So yeah, the 7th.
CLIENT: Oh. Last week, well, I was at school until forever, I feel like. But, yeah, I've just been very busy, but I don't even remember the past two weeks. I haven't really … I feel like I haven't really done much socially, but with school, I just had two papers due.
THERAPIST: Okay, it's like getting … well, it's like midterms and now it's getting to be finals.
CLIENT: Well, I'm so happy, though, because now that's all … well now, I still have obviously end-of-the-year stuff, but most of it is just done.
THERAPIST: Okay, great. Good. So you can be a little more relaxed. I understand how that is.
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: Um … and I'm sorry about the payment situation.
CLIENT: Oh.
THERAPIST: It's just … um … because after a certain while, like when I'm rescheduling, and when I put you in for a make-up, then I then can't slot somebody in that slot.
CLIENT: Oh, okay. That's what I figured.
THERAPIST: So they don't want me to keep doing make-ups, you know, except for exceptions and things like that. So just really, you know, try to be …
CLIENT: Yeah. Well yeah, I think the Friday is actually going to be good. Better than Wednesday now, so …
THERAPIST: Okay. So you won't have to worry about getting to class and having assignments and things like that due right afterwards at least, right?
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: Okay. So the last … this is the only problem because each session I feel like we have to catch up on what happens.
CLIENT: Well … uh …
THERAPIST: Do you remember what we were working on before?
CLIENT: I know exactly. Oh my gosh! Well, Halloween I was going to talk to Brendan and what-not. I didn't even end up really … No, I didn't end up seeing him at all, actually. We were talking and we were supposed to meet up and I originally was just going to go straight to where the guys were and then hang out with them for the night and then hopefully get to talk to him. [0:06:10.7]
THERAPIST: And your friend was with you, right?
CLIENT: Well no, I was alone, actually because …
THERAPIST: She just came for the Friday?
CLIENT: Um … oh yeah, she just came Friday. She left Saturday. Oh yeah, I forgot about her. So she left. But then … uh … I was talking to him like through text, I guess. He started texting me, so obviously through text, and … um … most of the night. And then my roommate got off her second shift, her night shift at work, so she's like … she told me to go meet her and we'll go meet them. So I'm like, "Okay." So I met her and she was, like, drunk and whiney and I was like, "All right, I'm leaving," because she wasn't leaving. So … and I wanted to meet up with them. So we left at, like, the start of the Cubs game, which, I don't even know when that was, trying to find them. And then we ended up walking around, like, the downtown area because it was blocked (ph) …
THERAPIST: Oh, because they were down there?
CLIENT: That's where they were, first of all.
THERAPIST: Oh yeah, I was down there. It was, like, so hard to get around because of all the streets.
CLIENT: And you know where … yeah. So … and my roommate, the whole time, like she fell going into the subway when we first got into the subway …
THERAPIST: Was she that drunk or she was just … a klutz?
CLIENT: No, it was the shoes she was in and it was just … yeah, it was slippery. And like at that point, she was … since she was drunk, it didn't really hurt her. But she kind of sobered up quickly, because we were looking for them for a really long time. We would call them, they would be like, "Oh, I can't hear you." And it was maybe 12:00 when we finally got there. And mind you, the game starts at what … I think it was still light, so maybe it started at 8:30, 9:00?
THERAPIST: Yeah.
CLIENT: So the whole time we're calling them and we just both got really upset because it's her boyfriend and he's supposed to be both our friends, this other kid too, Brendan. So we kept calling them. They wouldn't even step outside to tell us how to get there, where they were. Then I got in a fight with my roomie and I'm like … I just haven't talked to Brendan really since then. We got really mad at the both of them. She was fine like the next day, but I was furious just for the fact that I was walking around looking for them to hang out with them and they refused to walk outside. And then when we got there, we called them, like, "Oh, can you come outside," like whatever, because we didn't even want to stay at that point. And they weren't coming outside. So I was just done, and I left and … [0:08:36.6]
THERAPIST: So you got all the way there and you never even saw him?
CLIENT: No. I left … I was just … in a way, they wouldn't come outside. I think her boyfriend ended up coming outside, but I … and then I left. And I made my way back to Queens, which is another crazy, crazy trial.
THERAPIST: Oh my God.
CLIENT: No one would take me back. So I haven't really talked to him since then, and I guess he was like, "Oh, are you okay?" Because I walked all the way up to Union Station area because no cab would bring me home. And then the trains were messed up, or whatever, going home and I was just so confused. So I just kept walking and walking. And I feel like … like he was like, "Oh, are you okay?" And then we haven't really spoken since, like, the beginning of that week, I guess.
THERAPIST: Yeah. Were you all dressed up too?
CLIENT: Yeah! And like …
THERAPIST: That's so terrible!
CLIENT: It was just … and I didn't get to even, like, do anything that night. So I was really upset with them, I guess.
THERAPIST: Was he really drunk or something do you think?
CLIENT: Um … well that's the thing. Like they say, "Oh, we were drunk," like … or that's what her boyfriend eventually … he said sorry to me because I was just really annoyed and like … just because she was his girlfriend he was only worried, like, about her, whatever. So I was really annoyed at all of them.
THERAPIST: Yeah.
CLIENT: But, um … no, I don't … I don't know. It was just like a whole mess, so I just feel like throughout the night they got drunker. So that's why they're using that as an excuse. But from, like, 9:00 to 12:00 …
THERAPIST: Yeah, when they were first there. [0:10:13.3]
CLIENT: … like, it really … I couldn't … I looked at my clock and I was like …
THERAPIST: Who were they with? Were they at a bar or …?
CLIENT: You know what? Other guys that we're kind of friends with, not as close with them I guess. And they weren't … like I was furious that we … she was … like, more of it was that she was screaming at random people on the street and, like, cursing at random … my roomie, she's crazy … cursing at random people on the street. Like, I … I don't know. After that night, I just want to get away from it all. I can move out on my own. But like she was screaming to the phone on her boyfriend, "Go outside!" And he wasn't going outside to tell us … I don't know what was wrong in the communications. So ever since then, I've been … I don't want to deal with them. So …
THERAPIST: Yeah.
CLIENT: But I guess that like I'm not really even annoyed anymore. I'm kind of … whatever … pissed, but I haven't talked to Brendan really since then.
THERAPIST: Do you want to work things out with him or …?
CLIENT: Well, I don't know, because I really am annoyed at that whole situation …
THERAPIST: When he texted you and said, "Are you okay," or "Are you mad," or … what did you respond with?
CLIENT: Um … I said I think I was fine and like, "Yeah, I'm okay." I think I'm more mad at my roommate's boyfriend than I am at him, though, because he's the one we were calling, like, and asking him to go outside.
THERAPIST: Yeah. So maybe Brendan got caught up with this and he didn't even know what was going on, perhaps.
CLIENT: And I still kind of feel like he probably didn't … I don't know, doesn't know what was going on. And the fact that I even tried to talk to him … like he's very, like, like … I don't know, shyer than me. So it's like I don't know what to do.
THERAPIST: Yeah. Well maybe in this situation, if you really don't think it was Brendan's fault and, you know, all your plans and all your goals kind of got caught up in your roommate's drama, right?
CLIENT: Oh my gosh!
THERAPIST: Right?
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: So do you think then maybe you owe it to Brendan to have a conversation at least about it and explain why you're upset?
CLIENT: Yeah. I just feel like he maybe doesn't know how upset I was and then why doesn't he talk to me in this past week, whatever, like …
THERAPIST: Well, have you seen him? [0:12:19.8]
CLIENT: No, I guess I haven't seen him.
THERAPIST: Well maybe he feels like you're mad at him. (chuckling)
CLIENT: I guess I did last weekend purposely ... well, he didn't end up going either, but I purposely didn't go to one of our friend's birthday hangout things because I didn't want to see any of them because that was like directly after.
THERAPIST: Yeah.
CLIENT: But he's very … he always is hanging out with the guys and staying in Evanston and like, it's … so I … I don't know. I feel like, how am I going to drag him out if he doesn't seem like he wants to?
THERAPIST: But you still have never asked him.
CLIENT: I guess …
THERAPIST: You're right. How is he going to … you know, why would he even get up there? You haven't asked him.
CLIENT: Yeah. I've … I have to go through that whole getting the nerve to ask him again. Like I'm really … like that's another thing I was kind of annoyed at. And now I haven't seen him to …
THERAPIST: You're annoyed at what?
CLIENT: Like that I didn't get … like I was hoping to see him and hang out. And we were both talking like whatever, only through text, but … and then this happened and what-not and I just feel like … I don't know. When am I going to see him?
THERAPIST: So do you want to let your anger at your roommate and her boyfriend ruin something that … I mean, that's your choice, right?
CLIENT: Yeah, I guess … yeah … I guess that's really the only thing that's … I guess because it would have been easier because I was going to actually see him to ask him to hang out. I feel like it would be easier to ask him when we're already hanging out, rather than …
THERAPIST: By now, he might have already seen the movie, right?
CLIENT: Yeah. Rather than just call him up or text him like, "Hey …"
THERAPIST: It would be easier, but that situation might not present itself.
CLIENT: Yeah, that's what I feel like.
THERAPIST: So would it be worth it to take that leap, you know?
CLIENT: Well now, like, I don't know. I'm questioning it, because I feel like he knows now that I'm somewhat interested. But he's still … I guess I can't get mad at him for being shy like … because I don't know his story because I know that I'm like that and people probably have thought that about me plenty of times.
THERAPIST: And he got up the nerve already and told you that he liked you a while ago. [0:14:22.9]
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: And the only reason he wouldn't like you any more would just be that, "She's not interested. I need to move on." But even people say they move on if someone's (inaudible) "I like you again."
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: But unless something happened, you know, they wouldn't just say, "Oh, that's nice."
CLIENT: That's true. I guess …
THERAPIST: So I mean this is really about making what you want happen and how much do you want to be happy and at … I'm not saying you're going to fall in love with him and get married, but at least prove to yourself that you're capable of doing this.
CLIENT: I want to, and like not even necessarily like … I do … I think he's a really nice kid and I would like to get to know him more to see if maybe there was something there. But just in general, I would like to be able to do that, but at the same time I've kind of pushed that so far away that I'm fine. So I feel like there's nothing pushing me because I'm just like, "All right. I'm fine."
THERAPIST: This is what you're used to.
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: But is that what you want?
CLIENT: No. It just … it's not what I want, but I feel like it works. I don't know if that makes sense.
THERAPIST: So you're comfortable, and that's all you want to be for the rest of your life, just comfortable?
CLIENT: I guess I'm comfortable, but I'm not necessarily, like, happy.
THERAPIST: So why don't you just spend the rest of your life, Catherine? That's fine.
CLIENT: I don't know. I just feel like … I feel like I get less happy with the anxiety, so like, to provoke it …
THERAPIST: Disrupts the comfort.
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: But remember, you know, are you going to get the things that you want and the happiness that you'd like to at least attempt?
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: What if you spent your whole life … what if you were 80 years old and you never fell in love, you never had relationships, you've never been on dates just because you're comfortable. You stayed comfortable until you were 80 or 90 years old. [0:16:12.7]
CLIENT: Well that's what I don't …
THERAPIST: Is that the life you want to look back on?
CLIENT: No. Like I don't want that, but at the … I don't know how to like … I feel like I just … I was always so worried, like thinking like … worried about guys, like how I was going to act, more. And like now I'm at the point where I just kind of push them away because I don't even care. And it's not even like I deeply don't care. Like I really … some part of me would like to, you know, have a guy there. But right now I just kind of feel like it's easier for me to say while I'm here.
THERAPIST: I know, because you'd rather be comfortable than take a risk. But I don't even think it's a risk. You'd just rather be comfortable than uncomfortable.
CLIENT: I guess, yeah, because it's real … I mean … it's not a risk.
THERAPIST: Is it so important for you to be comfortable all the time? That's so important for you?
CLIENT: No. I just …
THERAPIST: But it is! You're changing your whole life. You're doing things differently. You're pushing people away because you want to be comfortable.
CLIENT: And I feel like I've more recently, I've been more comfortable but that's because I've really kind of (inaudible at 0:17:14.5) but I don't … I don't know.
THERAPIST: So it's really your choice. And I give you the tools, you know, what to think. You've got to practice, right? Unless there's something else you think that would be working.
CLIENT: I guess I'm still hesitant because I just don't want to feel the anxiety. Because I really …
THERAPIST: But can you stand it?
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: Are you sure?
CLIENT: I … I … I used to be able to.
THERAPIST: So you can stand it. So you've done it before. You still do it now.
CLIENT: But I feel like it's just a process, it's embarrassing, like I don't know. Like it just …
THERAPIST: If you could look back on your life, you know, when you're 80 years old if you were married and had children say, "Oh, I really regret being uncomfortable for that … for that phone call that I made. God I regret that so …!" Is that what you're going to look back on and regret?
CLIENT: No, like …
THERAPIST: Or are you going to regret the things that you didn't do?
CLIENT: … even now, like, when I've had anxiety, like a month ago or something, like I don't even think about it. So it's just in that moment, I guess, right now. But once it's in the past, it's fine. Like even if I had the worst anxiety, I don't care. Like it's over. It's done. [0:18:28.1]
THERAPIST: So … what's so awful about the uncomfortableness? You tell yourself "It's awful. It would be awful to be uncomfortable. I can't stand it. It would be awful. The worst thing in the world would be to be uncomfortable."
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: Right? And you know that it's not, but you don't believe it.
CLIENT: I know it's not, but I don't know … I just … when I get that feeling, like I don't know, just feel like it's the worst, even though obviously I know at that moment it's not. Things could be worse. But …
THERAPIST: I really would like you to take out your phone and text Brendan and ask him to see … "Would you like to see a movie tomorrow night?" Right now. And then we can talk about what you feel and we can dispute it. Okay?
CLIENT: Um … maybe I could say something else. (chuckling) I'm trying to think.
THERAPIST: What would be so wrong with saying that? Isn't that what you want?
CLIENT: Yeah, but at this point, I'd rather … like I just want to like … I don't know. I don't even know if … like I want to say like I don't even want to go like one-on-one, but I don't know if that's like really ...
THERAPIST: Because you're mad?
CLIENT: No, not even that. I just don't know if that's because the uncomfortableness or if … because like … I don't know. Like I really would … I'd like him to like … I don't know.
THERAPIST: Well what are you thinking right now? When I say this … when I say we're going to text him. Take out your phone and just hold it, okay?
CLIENT: Okay. (she gets her phone) Sorry. I have it somewhere. Yup. [0:20:12.6]
THERAPIST: Okay. Now I want you to open up a text message, a new one.
CLIENT: Text messages. Well, I don't know, like it just …
THERAPIST: Okay. And look at it. Okay, start typing. You don't have to put anyone's name in it yet, okay? Now type in, say, you know, "Do you want to see a movie?"
CLIENT: I don't know if I want to see a movie. Like I don't know … I kind of like …
THERAPIST: You did last week. What changed?
CLIENT: Yeah. I guess like I really …
THERAPIST: And you were going to ask him on Saturday.
CLIENT: … like I don't mind, like I wouldn't mind texting him and what-not. Like I feel like … I would feel better if like I started talking to him and kind of hinted it or something and like, he asked. But I don't know why, but I just …
THERAPIST: Because it wouldn't be a straight rejection?
CLIENT: Not even the rejection. Like … I don't know, I'm just very …
THERAPIST: Are you sure?
CLIENT: Maybe because I know that he wouldn't be like, "Let's go see a movie together." I don't know. I'm more just … I don't know why I want to, like … even though I've hung out with him a million times before, but like hang out first and then …
THERAPIST: But you want to hang out with him and you want to see what it's like …
CLIENT: Well with like a group and …
THERAPIST: But you've done that!
CLIENT: I know. But …
THERAPIST: And nothing has changed. And you haven't gotten that alone-time with him. And his friends are kind of dicks, they're always getting in the way. So if you want what you want, what's wrong with going after it? The feeling of uncomfortableness. So what are you feeling right now. Anxiety?
CLIENT: Um … yeah, but it's more just … I don't know. I think I'll feel more anxiety if I like actually started to type it.
THERAPIST: So type. So start typing.
CLIENT: Well I know I'm not going to send it. (chuckling)
THERAPIST: Start typing. Maybe you will send it. What are you typing?
CLIENT: Well, I just changed it to Word. Now I'm thinking. Um …
THERAPIST: Say, "Hey, do you want to go see a movie tomorrow? Want to go see Where the Wild Things Are tomorrow?" [0:22:08.4]
I mean, if he was nervous, he could say … he could change it to group, but this is you putting yourself out there, right?
CLIENT: Yeah. I just cleared it all. I don't know, like I just … I don't know.
THERAPIST: So what emotion are you feeling? Anxiety. What are you thinking in your head?
CLIENT: I'm just really hesitant. I don't know.
THERAPIST: What are you thinking in your head?
CLIENT: Um … I don't know, like it's … like … I don't want him to think it's weird. I don't know. I don't really know, I'm just like …
THERAPIST: "I don't want him to think I'm weird." So this comes down to people judging you. Why would he think that you were weird? Or … okay. Let's work different. If … so what if he thought you were weird?
CLIENT: I guess it doesn't matter. I don't know, I think I … well not only that, though, I'm more thinking of the actual event. Like …
THERAPIST: I don't know if you're thinking of the actual event right now.
CLIENT: Well, I feel like it's both, because I don't want to actually ask him to do that because then I know (inaudible) to do.
THERAPIST: So were you just bullshitting me last week about asking him?
CLIENT: No, I would rather like … what I would rather do is like get a chance to actually hang out with him, actually talk one-on-one and actually like …
THERAPIST: Give you the chance to not do it?
CLIENT: Well no, I would feel much more comfortable then, being like, "We should hang out," or something like (inaudible)
THERAPIST: So you feel like it's weird since you haven't seen him for a while?
CLIENT: Yeah, like I don't know … I don't know why, it just … I just feel like that would be … I want to use the word "comfortable," but …
THERAPIST: So what if it's uncomfortable?
CLIENT: It doesn't matter, but still …
THERAPIST: So why … so what … okay. When you want to send this text message you're like, "I don't want him to think I'm weird." Why would he think you were weird for sending a text message to say … to see a movie?
CLIENT: I guess he wouldn't. Like …
THERAPIST: And he would maybe be excited since he has a longstanding crush on you.
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: So it further comes down to …
CLIENT: Me.
THERAPIST: … you being uncomfortable, doesn't it?
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: So why are you uncomfortable? [0:24:15.2]
CLIENT: I don't … I don't know. I just … because it's … like I've never …
THERAPIST: Because he would know that you were interested? And then you couldn't take it back?
CLIENT: Um … not even. Because I kind of would rather him know that so he can do something. Like … I don't know. But … I just …
THERAPIST: I didn't realize you were a girl from the 1930s! Are you?
CLIENT: No. (chuckling)
THERAPIST: No? You think a girl can ask a guy out?
CLIENT: Yeah. Of course.
THERAPIST: He won't think, "She's a total slut"?
CLIENT: That's not even … I don't know, it's not even like the girl/guy aspect. It's just me.
THERAPIST: It's just you. So what's … what would be so hard about texting him? Having to go through with it?
CLIENT: I guess … yeah, like I'm not … yeah, I guess that's …
THERAPIST: But you could still back out, right? You could always call in sick tomorrow if you really didn't want to go.
CLIENT: Well I feel like … like I can't do that unless I'm really sick.
THERAPIST: But you could if you really were so uncomfortable.
CLIENT: Yeah. But that's the thing, like with me, I don't … like I don't want people to … like I feel like …
THERAPIST: But he already knows.
CLIENT: Yeah. But even like I feel like it hasn't … even with anxiety, like it really hasn't … like I haven't shown like the symptoms or anxiety or the feeling in the stomach hasn't been strong enough to where … like my roommate [I don't even think has] (ph) really seen him recently, so it's kind of … I really … I don't know …
THERAPIST: I think this goes back to, Catherine, what do you want from life? Do you want to get married?
CLIENT: Eventually, yes.
THERAPIST: Do you want to have children?
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: Do you want to have friends and family? Do you want to have a few sex partners before you get married?
CLIENT: Sure. (chuckling)
THERAPIST: Or do you want … uh … do you want the one you marry to be the one? You've already had sex, right?
CLIENT: No, that's fine.
THERAPIST: Okay. So, you want these things. Do you want to travel?
CLIENT: Oh, I would love to.
THERAPIST: Do you want to experience new things?
CLIENT: That's my problem, like I want to so bad, but …
THERAPIST: But you let your thoughts take control of you. Can you take control of your thoughts? [0:26:24.3]
CLIENT: I guess yeah, but … I mean …
THERAPIST: But you're not … but you don't believe them and you don't practice them enough.
CLIENT: Yeah. I guess because like I feel like when I'm in a normal state, like I'm fine, it just … it just doesn't seem relevant. Like it just … why am I telling me stuff that I already know? Why am I telling myself like things …
THERAPIST: Because you don't know it.
CLIENT: And then … that's true, because when I'm in that situation I forget all that. But …
THERAPIST: Mmm hmm. The old … this is the thing – the old thoughts are – I think for you – are probably going to always come up. Maybe even just a little, you know? I think they're always going to come up, the thoughts that, "I can't stand it. It's too uncomfortable. I don't want to feel uncomfortable. I don't want him to think I'm stupid. Blah, blah, blah. I'd rather not do anything than feel uncomfortable." But as long as you have the new thoughts, I think eventually they will be stronger, if you really practice them. But if you really want these things, Catherine, can you get them?
CLIENT: If I actually go out, I guess, and do it.
THERAPIST: How are you going to feel when you're 60 years old and you've done nothing? And you haven't even gone on a date?
CLIENT: That's what I'm afraid of, like …
THERAPIST: But I don't think you're that afraid of it, because you're not doing anything about it.
CLIENT: I don't know, like I am, and like I think about that a lot. But …
THERAPIST: But if I put a gun to your head right now and said, "Text Brendan " …
CLIENT: Sorry (weeping)
THERAPIST: That's okay. I'm being hard on you today just because … I know there was (inaudible) (both laugh)
CLIENT: It's not even that. It's just I feel like these are things that I've always wanted to do.
THERAPIST: I know. And I think I haven't seen this emotion from you. And that's … you know, I guess I'm pulling to get this emotion out of you because I want you to see what you're really doing to yourself, you know? What you're capable of as well. [0:28:24.6]
CLIENT: I just feel like I guess I did such a good job at like pushing it all away because like I used to be more upset about it when I was younger, but the past few years it just … I haven't … I haven't dated anyone or anything like that and I … like I guess I could also say like I don't have a desire to because I don't want to feel like the way I was feeling when I was doing that, like dating and what-not. But I also at the same time, like look at my friends and like, I don't know …
THERAPIST: And I don't want you to sit around and be depressed and beat yourself up over this because I don't think that is helpful. I don't think that is going to do anything. And I don't think that's necessary. You're still young. You still have all these things ahead of you, you know?
CLIENT: I try to remind myself about that.
THERAPIST: You haven't missed out on the world, you know? The world's right there in front of you.
CLIENT: I just … I always look at like my friends and what-not and I just don't understand like how I don't allow myself to just relax like they do or …
THERAPIST: It's harder for you. That's okay. I think you have to keep trying, you know?
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: And it's going to be hard. I don't think it's going to be easy. But do you think it will be worth it?
CLIENT: Yeah. Obviously, like …
THERAPIST: Really? Do you think so?
CLIENT: Yeah. It's something like I'd really love to at least allow myself to enjoy like life at least once. Like …
THERAPIST: I think you've enjoyed it at least once. Let's not be over-dramatic.
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: I think you've done a lot of things …
CLIENT: I just feel like it's the little things (inaudible) like even getting a job, like just to feel like I'm making my own money, like … I miss that, like …
THERAPIST: But you can still do that, right?
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: And we stopped kind of working on that for a while when other things came up and we kept missing sessions and we can go back to that.
CLIENT: Actually, just recently, like today and yesterday, I went and got applications so I can start filling them out, so it's like …
THERAPIST: Good, because I think (inaudible 0:30:25.4) of discomfort, which is kind of what I was doing to you right now and making you think about things you don't want to think about. Because I think a certain amount of discomfort is necessary to make change. When you're comfortable, as you know, you don't need to do anything.
CLIENT: Yeah, because I feel like I haven't done much because I have been comfortable.
THERAPIST: But I think … I'm trying, I guess, to make you a little uncomfortable today, which I think worked. I feel bad! (chuckling)
CLIENT: No, no, it's not even …
THERAPIST: But I think it's important for you to see that change is important for you. It's not important for me, you know? This is what … you're happy, but I don't believe that you're happy, and I don't think that you're as happy as you could be.
CLIENT: I don't think I am either, so ... I think … I struggle with that. I feel like … versus my anxiety, because I know that, like, I'm not very … like I know that I love my family. I have a wonderful family, friends, wonderful friends. But like, it would be nice to be able to do things more on my own than have to depend on them and solely them. I feel like …
THERAPIST: And that's what I'm saying. I think you have a lot of … um … accomplishments. I mean you're almost done with college, you do really well in school, you're really responsible and you have your own apartment, you're not living at home, you know what I mean? Things could be a lot worse. You've done a lot of really great things that have taken courage and taken discomfort probably, right? To move out, to go to college away from home with all new people.
CLIENT: But see, I look at those things as like … like I should be like happy for those things … like those aren't even like …
THERAPIST: But they're not a big deal. [0:32:14.6]
CLIENT: Yeah, like those …
THERAPIST: Because you're down on yourself, right? But look at all these things that you've done, that you've made yourself uncomfortable, that you've stood it. I think the interpersonal ones are always going to be the hardest for you, but you've made friends, right? In this college. You didn't know anybody there. You made friends. You did it. You wanted friends bad enough and you went out and got them, right?
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: And I think if you want to try relationships and things like that, you have to want it bad enough to go out and get it.
CLIENT: Yeah. I think I just … I never … I don't know. Since probably before I came to Shimer was the last time I actually like really either showed interest in a guy. Like even if I was interested, I haven't within the past three years, like done anything about it really. Brendan, close, like we've actually kissed and … but like … that was (inaudible)
THERAPIST: When? When was this?
CLIENT: It was only … that was probably … um … like a year ago, though.
THERAPIST: Wow.
CLIENT: But it was like not … we kissed and it was out and we were drunk like maybe two weekends or something. And nothing came of it. And that's probably the only like guy attraction I feel like.
THERAPIST: But you do want more interaction with him. So can you go out and get it? Can you stand a little discomfort to come in next week and say … oh, you're getting a message.
CLIENT: Getting messages.
THERAPIST: To come, you know, like you'll come back next week and say to me, "Oh my God, you'll never believe what I did! I actually did it! We went on a date. It was a little uncomfortable, but I'm really glad I did it. At least now I know I don't really like him. He kind of smells bad," or you know like, "I can move on and now I can talk about other things," you know?
CLIENT: I would like that just so I … like, I don't know, I just feel like … like if I don't do that with someone that … like him or whatever, if I can't do it with someone like him, then how do I do it with a stranger? (weeping) I don't know. [0:34:13.7]
THERAPIST: So start with him. Right?
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: And if he's a big loser, then move on.
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: Right? You're beautiful, you're young, you've got … you're smart. You have all these things and so you have a little anxiety problem, right?
CLIENT: Yup.
THERAPIST: But I don't think that's a deal-breaker for anyone. For most people, right?
CLIENT: Yeah. I guess I always looked at it as a "don't come near this person."
THERAPIST: "Who would ever want to be with me? I'm a mess." You're not a mess. You have everything else in order.
CLIENT: (inaudible) I guess it's only with …
THERAPIST: In that one area that you have trouble with.
CLIENT: Yeah. Except I need … I guess I just …
THERAPIST: You're not an agoraphobic. You know what those people are? Those are people who are …
CLIENT: Afraid to go (inaudible)?
THERAPIST: Outside, yeah. They won't leave their house. You haven't got that bad.
CLIENT: I know. I always get to say "no" on those answers to those questions. (both laugh) I always think, "Really?" I guess there is other …
THERAPIST: But you've got to keep challenging yourself. You've got to keep … Want to try? How bad do you want it?
CLIENT: I don't know. See? I don't know. Like I do, but at the same time, like … I don't know if it's habit that, like I'm fine not texting him?
THERAPIST: So how are you going to feel after you text him? Are you going to still feel bad, like once you press "send," do you think you'll still feel as bad?
CLIENT: I think I'm going to have anxiety if I send a message, that sort of thing.
THERAPIST: Can you do some relaxation when you feel that way?
CLIENT: Yeah, I guess. I haven't really done the breathing in a while, but that was always something …
THERAPIST: Do you have it at home? Was it a tape, or you just know how to do it yourself?
CLIENT: I guess I just did it. I'm actually learning in my Buddhism class Zen meditation. And it's so similar to the breathing. [0:36:02.3]
THERAPIST: Exactly what this is [always (inaudible)] (ph) (laughing) So when you feel anxiety, you can do that, right? You can say your thoughts, like, "This isn't awful. This is not bad. This is a step to getting what I want. I'm going out and getting what I want. I'm being brave. I'm proud of myself."
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: "Even if it ends badly, I still did something good for myself."
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: Right?
CLIENT: That would feel nice.
THERAPIST: Pick up your phone. Come on.
CLIENT: Text messages.
THERAPIST: [You have any] (ph) text messages? Who are they from?
CLIENT: My roommate.
THERAPIST: Okay.
CLIENT: And her boyfriend, actually.
THERAPIST: Well ignore that. Do you think you can send it, or you're not ready yet?
CLIENT: See, I feel … like I feel like I'm not ready, but at the same time, like I don't know.
THERAPIST: Are you ever going to be ready?
CLIENT: That's … yeah.
THERAPIST: So do you want to be brave right now and send it?
CLIENT: I don't know.
THERAPIST: If not now, when? We've been talking about this for, like, two weeks, three weeks, I guess.
CLIENT: I know.
THERAPIST: He could have a girlfriend by the time you turn around – some crazy over-aggressive girl who's going to jump him, right?
CLIENT: I have thought of that before, like he's going to have a girlfriend by the time we even hang out, but … I don't know.
THERAPIST: But not enough to encourage you to go ahead?
CLIENT: No, I feel like nothing except myself really is enough, like just for the fact that … I don't know, I just have for so long now just pushed everything to the back. I don't know. But I just … I'm trying to think of like a scenario where maybe it would be less uncomfortable hanging out. Like, "Do you want to do this," or something, like …
THERAPIST: Would you want to invite him over instead?
CLIENT: Um …
THERAPIST: I mean, you could still come over and then say, "Let's go see Where the Wild Things Are."
CLIENT: I guess, yeah. That would maybe be better. I don't know what to say, like, "Hey …"
THERAPIST: What if you're just like, "I really want to go see Where the Wild Things Are. Do you want to see it tomorrow?" Before it's out of the theatres.
CLIENT: Maybe I'll … I don't know. Maybe I'll see if he wants to see if he wants to, like, come over or something? And then go … I feel like that would be a little bit easier. [0:38:20.5]
THERAPIST: Okay.
CLIENT: I don't know what to say.
THERAPIST: Say, "Hey, want to come over tomorrow? Want to come over and hang out with me tomorrow?"
CLIENT: I haven't talked to him in so long now. I feel like I should …
THERAPIST: Could you say, "I haven't talked to you in a while. Want to come over and hang out tomorrow?"
CLIENT: I guess, yeah. (both chuckle) Okay. I feel weird, though. Like as I'm typing it, I'm thinking like …
THERAPIST: So what are you thinking? Tell me what you're thinking.
CLIENT: That it's random. Like …
THERAPIST: So that this is weird.
CLIENT: Starting to feel like anxiety, but …
THERAPIST: So breathe. Say, "This is just what people feel when they're nervous," right? Can you say, "This is just what people feel when they're texting the guy that they like"?
CLIENT: I feel like he's going to be like, "Come over tomorrow? For … like, why?"
THERAPIST: So he'll say, "For what?" And be like, "I don't know. Want to go see a movie later?" Right?
CLIENT: I guess because I've never …
THERAPIST: Never done it before.
CLIENT: Yeah. I was just going to say I've never actually asked.
THERAPIST: But he'll probably be thrilled and I guess since it is tomorrow, he could have plans. You could be in the clear, right?
CLIENT: Yeah. Uh … (typing) "Want to come over tomorrow?" I'm thinking of it as I'm typing, like his response.
THERAPIST: And then you could say … "And then see Where the Wild Things Are."
CLIENT: See I feel like waiting on that, like …
THERAPIST: But then he might not have the thing, "for what?"
CLIENT: That's true. [0:40:00.7]
THERAPIST: You know what I mean? He might be less confused.
CLIENT: I'm trying to see how I can be nice. I'm just going to say, "I haven't seen you in a while. Want to come over tomorrow and hang out?"
THERAPIST: Yeah. And anyway, you can talk and get off your chest what you were upset about.
CLIENT: That's true. I'm like thinking …
THERAPIST: What are you thinking?
CLIENT: That it's just going to be us two and like there's no, like …
THERAPIST: Catherine, can you have a date with more than two people?
CLIENT: No. Well, double-date?
THERAPIST: You can have a tea party! (chuckling)
CLIENT: I feel like even when I date, like (whispers something inaudible) even when I kind of dated guys – I don't even want to know what my eyes look like but …
THERAPIST: They're actually fine.
CLIENT: Oh, okay. I never really did the whole … well I guess in the beginning, never did the one-on-one date until it was, like, comfortable. So that's why …
THERAPIST: But now you're an adult. Right?
CLIENT: I know, and that's why I'm like …
THERAPIST: It's hard. It's scary. But … right? If not with him, with who?
CLIENT: That's true.
THERAPIST: And you've done it before probably without even realizing it.
CLIENT: I don't know. I don't know if I want to send it.
THERAPIST: Okay. Are you done?
CLIENT: You can't send it.
THERAPIST: I won't. I'm just [scrolling up] (ph) "I haven't talked to you in a while (inaudible) Yeah. That's pretty simple.
CLIENT: I guess it's like the simplest …
THERAPIST: I don't think he's going to get any weird ideas. Right? What if you press "send" right now?
CLIENT: Yeah. I'm debating. I don't know what's holding me back.
THERAPIST: What would be the benefits of pressing "send"?
CLIENT: Um, actually getting … well maybe actually getting to hang out with him. [0:42:11.0]
THERAPIST: What else?
CLIENT: Um … and feeling better just that I actually did it.
THERAPIST: Proving that you can stand to be uncomfortable. Taking steps towards making change in your life.
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: Handling rejection if it actually happened. And the negatives are like feeling uncomfortable. Which ones are more important to you?
CLIENT: I guess the positives. But …
THERAPIST: Are they strong enough? I mean you were just crying about the fact that you couldn't have all these things. And this is you actively trying to change something.
CLIENT: No that's the thing, like it … obviously like it upsets me a lot to where I could cry just talking about it. But at the same time, I don't … like there's nothing really that I … it's not that I really have a drive to change it. Like I don't know if I'm avoiding it.
THERAPIST: But I think by making change, like we'll start, you know, the process.
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: If you just close your eyes and press "send."
CLIENT: What if I said like, "this weekend" so it doesn't have to definitely be tomorrow?
THERAPIST: You could do that. Is it less scary if it's not tomorrow?
CLIENT: Yeah. Well I just feel like it's so definite. Like … and I can't take back, like "Oh, you're not allowed to come over."
THERAPIST: So what about it? I mean, you could say, "I also have (inaudible) come over."
CLIENT: Yeah, he would find out the truth. Like I live with his best friend's girlfriend.
THERAPIST: So you might have to do it.
CLIENT: (chuckling) Um … say "this weekend."
THERAPIST: Do you want to be brave? Do you want to take chances? What do you want? Feel a little bit comfortable? "I can stand it. Feeling uncomfortable is not awful."
CLIENT: I know. I just feel like it's so definite if I send him a message. Like … [0:44:15.7]
THERAPIST: We're running out of time, Catherine. Do you want to do this before we go?
CLIENT: Um … I'll change it to "the weekend."
THERAPIST: This is taking a step in your life, right? You're taking control back. "I can stand to feel uncomfortable." Say it. Can you say that to me?
CLIENT: Yeah. I'm just still debating whether I'm sending this.
THERAPIST: Say it. Say it.
CLIENT: I can stand to be uncomfortable.
THERAPIST: It's worth it.
CLIENT: It's … it is worth it, but … I don't know. I just really …
THERAPIST: It's worth it to be uncomfortable.
CLIENT: It's worth it. I just don't feel like …
THERAPIST: "In order to get the things I want in life, I have to feel a little uncomfortable."
CLIENT: In order to get the things I want in life, I have to feel a little, at least, uncomfortable.
THERAPIST: Maybe a lot uncomfortable. Right?
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: "I'm going to have to feel uncomfortable to get the things I want in life to be happy. Being happy is worth being uncomfortable."
CLIENT: I'm going to change it.
THERAPIST: What are you changing it to?
CLIENT: Can I say "we should hang out this weekend"? That just make it a little easier?
THERAPIST: You can do whatever you want. As long as you're a fast typist – we're running out of time!
CLIENT: Okay. I don't spell very well. I'm erasing the other stuff. [0:46:08.1]
THERAPIST: That's okay.
CLIENT: I'm going to ask him … I'm going to say "we should hang out this weekend" because that's, I guess, not …
THERAPIST: What if you say, "Me and you should hang out this weekend"?
CLIENT: Okay. So I guess that's … "Hey, haven't talked to you in a while. Me and you should hang out this weekend."
THERAPIST: I think that sounds good.
CLIENT: Question mark? Or just …
THERAPIST: That sounds fine. I don't think you need that to work. You sent it?
CLIENT: I hope he answers. Yeah.
THERAPIST: Okay. Want to wait two minutes and then we'll see? How do you feel?
CLIENT: I'm kind of just waiting for …
THERAPIST: But how do you feel right now?
CLIENT: Um … I'm just really … going through my head, is he going to answer?
THERAPIST: So he might be busy, right?
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: He might be doing something. He might be in the shower.
CLIENT: I guess I'm really … I'm really anxious, actually, to know what he says.
THERAPIST: He might be on the toilet. You don't know, right?
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: It could be a thousand things.
CLIENT: I'm more anxious to find out …
THERAPIST: Can you stand feeling anxious?
CLIENT: Yeah, I guess it's not …
THERAPIST: "I can stand it. He might be doing something else."
CLIENT: It didn't like (inaudible) like I thought. I don't know.
THERAPIST: So it didn't go worse.
CLIENT: No.
THERAPIST: Same level of anxiety? I think it's less. You're smiling more.
CLIENT: I'm still … I don't know. I'm thinking about what he's going to say, because if he says, "Yeah, we should," then I have to be like, "All right. Well let's do …" like I'm going to have to come up with something to do.
THERAPIST: Well you have something.
CLIENT: I guess, yeah, the movie.
THERAPIST: Mmm hmm. Or you could actually talk on the phone, which might be easier.
CLIENT: That's true.
THERAPIST: Would it be easier?
CLIENT: Um … yeah. I hate text messaging. I know I always say that, but … like that I'm always texting, but I really hate it.
THERAPIST: So why don't you say, "Call me. Like call me and we'll make plans."
CLIENT: I guess I could say that back.
THERAPIST: He might be freaking out himself. "Oh my God! What should I do?" Is this the first time you've said that?
CLIENT: Um … I guess, yeah, because normally he … normally me and him just show up at places because I go with my roomie and he goes with his best friend, so … we normally don't like … except Halloween when we actually … we were the ones talking but it's still groups.
THERAPIST: So you're giving him one more chance. I mean he could be a secret dick that you never knew for all these years and let you down. Or it could have just been with asshole guys who, you know how they get when they're in guy-mentality, right?
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: But can you stand not … you know, can you stand … what if he thinks you're such a freak for texting him? Is he going to think that?
CLIENT: I think I'd rather him think I was a freak for texting him than think I was a freak if we were in person. I don't know why, like … if you want to think I'm a freak before we hang out, that's a little bit better than after we've hung out because I guess then I'd feel like he got to know me and then … well, I guess he does know me. I can't pretend like he doesn't.
THERAPIST: Sure he knows you. He knows your weird things. There's probably more out there, right? Everybody has even more weirdness.
CLIENT: That's true. It's what attracts you to the other person, it's their weirdness.
THERAPIST: Yeah. And also mystery. I'm sure you have a lot of mysteries since you were like …
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: Right?
CLIENT: Yeah, because I guess (inaudible).
THERAPIST: And you never know where he could be right now. There could be a million reasons he's not answering. Is he normally really fast?
CLIENT: Yeah, I guess I'm … I'm not even like nervous that … No, because sometimes I've actually called him. I feel like he wouldn't answer if I called him, because there are times that I've called him and he'll always text me like, "Oh, I'm driving." And he'll text me and I'm like, "So you could text while you're driving, but you won't call … you won't answer my phone call?"
THERAPIST: So maybe he's more anxious about talking on the phone too.
CLIENT: So I feel like … yeah.
THERAPIST: I mean, this could be good practice for you to get out of your comfort zone. Go after him. And if it doesn't work out, that would be sealing (ph) those skills and you can use them somewhere else.
CLIENT: Actually I feel a little bit better that … I know I didn't exactly say like, "We should go to the movies," but I just feel a little bit better that I …
THERAPIST: Do you feel better because you're going after what you want?
CLIENT: I don't know why, I just do feel a little bit better that I actually did something.
THERAPIST: And maybe it wasn't as bad as you anticipated the anxiety to be for doing it.
CLIENT: Yeah. Oh, definitely not. [0:50:15.8]
THERAPIST: Right? So it's the same thing as the …
CLIENT: But (inaudible) to being relaxed.
THERAPIST: So it's the same thing as the Versace. The … thought it was going to be the worst thing in the world. Then after doing it, you said, "Oh, it wasn't that bad."
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: You feel better than even before you did it because I was just thinking it was going to be so bad. And even if he never responded … right? What if he never responded?
CLIENT: Um … I'd probably say something to him the next time I saw him if he didn't.
THERAPIST: Yeah, I'd be like, "Thanks for responding to my text."
CLIENT: And then I wouldn't hang out with him.
THERAPIST: Exactly. But would you feel anxious all week?
CLIENT: Um …
THERAPIST: Maybe a little.
CLIENT: I think I would, just because I wouldn't know.
THERAPIST: Because you wouldn't know.
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: But um … could you stand not knowing?
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: There's a thousand other guys out there.
CLIENT: I'd rather know but …
THERAPIST: There's a thousand other guys out there, right?
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: It's hard to find good ones. But they're out there, right?
CLIENT: Yeah. I mean …
THERAPIST: Maybe we can think about if you don't find the job thing we can think about maybe you going out and joining a club or something like that.
CLIENT: My parents would love you for saying that. That's all they say to me.
THERAPIST: Yeah? Getting out and meeting some other people.
CLIENT: Yeah. "Why aren't you joining a club?"
THERAPIST: I mean I've told you before, I never worked in college.
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: I worked over the summers, I think, you know.
CLIENT: Yeah, like it's not like I've never had a job. I don't know, other people make me feel so bad about that and like …
THERAPIST: Other people say things and you feel bad about it.
CLIENT: Yeah. That's … (therapist laughs) They say something and I take it, I guess, however, whatever way.
THERAPIST: Okay. Well let's start … I'll come with you downstairs. We'll take the elevator down.
END TRANSCRIPT
