<font size="4"><b>V: Mad Logic</b></font>

"I'M YOUR CASE DOCTOR," the psychiatrist informed me. "Name's
Dr. Charles Miracola. All patients have a Case Doctor. Take off
your clothes and I'll give you your physical."


An excitable man, of weak features and greasy complexion,
Dr. Miracola was still in the embryonic stage, so difficult for many
psychiatrists. He had a genuine liking and sympathy for those on
the other side of the bars, a partial conscience and sense of duty.
But to please Dr. Walton and conform to Lenwood policy he was
gradually hardening into a psychiatrist. This unhappy man was
generally liked by everyone except the other psychiatrists.


Dr. Miracola gave me a haphazard examination, concentrating
on testing my reflexes. After tapping my arms and legs with the
hammer he had me touch my nose with each index finger, then
each knee with the heel of my other foot. He also tickled my
abdomen and the bottoms of my feet with a feather. "Tcht, tcht,"
he said occasionally. "Tcht, tcht."


At his request I related the events of my hospitalization, arrest
and confinement, while he listened with an impatient half interest.


"Now let's consider my case," I suggested. "You know nothing
whatever about this Army psychiatrist. I'm not accusing him, but
you know there are all kinds of men in every profession. You have
no way of knowing that he's capable and above suspicion. I think
it only fair that you permit me to reply to his charges."


Dr. Miracola had been looking through the Army hospital file,
frowning in serious thought. Closing the thick folder, he stared
out the window for several minutes, continually tapping the table
with the hammer. He turned back to me.


"Have you observed anything whatever about me to indicate
mental illness?" I asked.

[p. <i>76</i>]

Dr. Miracola carefully weighed my question. "No, I can find
nothing wrong with you physically or otherwise."


"Then turn me loose," I demanded. "You have no right to confine
a sane man."


"That's up to the Staff," he said, "that's up to the Staff. But let's
get on with the analysis. I must know about your early life. There
may be something there!"


Dr. Miracola delved into my early life and family history; then,
with obvious relish, asked some psychiatric specials: "Did your
mother have trouble with childbirth?" ... "Were you a breastfed
or bottle baby?" ... "Were your parents in financial condition
to give you a proper diet?" ... "At what age did you quit
wetting the bed?" ... and "Did you ever practice sexual perversion?"


After this interview I felt soiled—as though I had fallen into a
sewer. A shower helped. But I still felt dirty all day.


Certainly Dr. Miracola knew that mental illness is evidenced by
tangible proofs: abnormal actions, speech and behavior. However,
after admitting that he could find nothing wrong with me, he appropriated
all charges by the Army psychiatrist and from Camille's
letters. Then, looking in his list of diagnoses, he found one to fit
the charges: dementia praecox, paranoid type.


<i>Friday, July 13th</i>. "You're to go to Staff this morning," Dr.
Tighe said when he made the morning round of patients. "The
Staff will consider your demand for release."


An hour later an attendant escorted me to the Staff Room. A
stern woman in nurse's uniform admitted me and closed the door
and pointed out a vacant chair at the end of a long table.


There was a heavy silence, as ten pair of cold eyes stared at me.


I sat down. "Good morning," I ventured.


The "silent treatment" continued. Not a man moved. No one
returned my greeting.


Two of the psychiatrists wore civilian clothes, while eight were
in Army uniform. All VA doctors who met the physical standards
had been inducted into the Army Medical Corps. But the Army
meant nothing to the psychiatrists, who were never even addressed
by rank.

[p. <i>77</i>]

These odd-looking men in ill-fitting uniforms had medical degrees
and practiced in an asylum. They were known as psychiatrists.
Observing their concerted stare of cold hostility, I found myself
thinking of them as priests of some pagan cult.


The psychiatrist on my right leaned uncomfortably close. "Did
you ever have hallucinations?" he asked in a sepulchral voice.


"No," I replied.


"Did you ever hear voices?" he asked in the same tone.


"I've never heard imaginary voices," I stated.


The psychiatrist moved away, staring accusingly as if he disliked
my answers.


<i>I thought of the veteran who said he heard voices all the time.
"What do those voices tell you?" the psychiatrist asked in eager
anticipation. "They say, ‘Git a broom! Git a mop!’" the veteran
replied, thinking of the spit and polish of the Receiving Ward.
"That's what they say: ‘Git a broom! Git a mop!</i>’"


Dr. Tighe asked abruptly, "How do you feel?"


"Fine," I replied.


"Do you demand your release?"


"I request my release and insist on being released at once."


"What are your plans upon leaving this hospital?"


"My plans for the next three months are indefinite," I explained.
"Having been in the Army three years I've lost touch with the
business world. I'll first renew business contacts and study business
conditions."


"Do you plan to return home?"


"Yes."


"Do you think you should have been transferred to this hospital?"


"I should not."


"Do you think you should have been in any hospital?"


"I needed hospitalization for medical treatment; otherwise, no."


The other psychiatrists were looking down at the table or gazing
into space. I felt that my case had already been decided, and
that they were not proud of the decision.


Prior to a hearing Dr. Walton usually advised them of his
opinion; and they dared not disagree with him. So, after I left the
room, the Staff vote would uphold his decision.

[p. <i>78</i>]

Dr. Walton sat at the end of the long table, facing me, his face
flushed in anger. "How do you feel about being locked up?" he
demanded.


"Sir," I replied, "I don't understand the question. Will you
please make your meaning clear?"


"How do you feel toward this hospital for keeping you locked
up?" he rasped.


"My feelings towards this hospital are the best," I replied. "I've
received the best diet of my hospital experience. The attitude of
doctors, nurses and attendants has been excellent."


"Do you insist on your release even though the Staff may wish
you to stay longer?"


"May I make a statement before answering that question?" I
asked. "Any layman of good judgment can spend two hours talking
with me, and know beyond a doubt that I'm sane and normal.
You men are all able psychiatrists and have observed me for three
weeks. So there is no reason to keep me here for further observation.
I need no treatment. I've received no treatment, unless you
call confinement treatment. There's nothing wrong with me mentally
or physically. I trust I will leave with your agreement. If you
do not agree—then I insist on your opening the door and letting
me leave."


"How does being locked up in NP sections affect you?"


"As you know, it will seriously affect me professionally and
financially." I lifted my chin and looked directly at Dr. Walton.
"I'm not proud of this experience. However, I will not once be
ashamed and, although the whole world may know, I can still
proudly look any man in the face!"


"Thank you, Wilkes." Dr. Walton's voice shook in anger. "<i>That</i>
will be all."


Dr. Tighe later advised me that the Staff had decided to have
me committed as insane.


Thinking of that sinister hearing I knew it had been as evil as
the witch trials of old.

[p. <i>79</i>]

It was a witch trial! The cold eyes about that long table. The
vindictiveness of the inquisitors. The pre-conceived decision. The
finality of judgment.


I stood condemned as a witch; torture to follow until I confessed.
True, I would not be put to the rack, the psychiatrists being
aware that mental torture is more effective.


In the fifteenth and sixteenth centuries, Christendom, led by
the Church, joined in a horrible pogrom—torturing and burning
half a million witches. The witches were the misfits and the mentally
ill, and those framed as such.


Books were written on the practices of witches and how to accuse
and convict them.


Accepting all charges as true, the judge would order the accused
tortured until he confessed; then burned, to free his soul
for heaven.


Tiring of the slaughter, Christendom confined the insane in
special prisons. One of the first was in London: the Hospital of
Saint Mary of Bethlehem—called Bedlam.


"Loonies" of all descriptions—men and women—were confined
together, except that some were caged or chained. Docile inmates
—called Bedlam Beggars—were permitted to beg in the streets.
Bedlam became a popular attraction and a profitable venture. The
inmates were exhibited like circus freaks and visitors gladly paid
admission. Another source of income came from confining sane
men and women who were framed. Bedlam was famous and infamous,
so that the word now has come to mean the uproar and
confusion found in all asylums.


"Doctors" were later placed in charge of the mental prisons, so
the inmates would receive better care. But the "doctors" agreed
that the insane must be subdued and that chains and scourging
were the proper treatment.


The "doctors," now called psychiatrists, write volumes about
symptoms, diagnosis, cause and treatment.


What do these men actually know about mental illness?


A professor of medicine answers this question in <i>Psychiatry in
Medical Education:</i> "Psychiatry is largely a metaphysical hodgepodge
of terminology. You can call patients queer names and lose

[p. <i>80</i>]

Clinging blindly to the filthy Freudian theory,
<a href="javascript: __showhidenote('_note_10661');">[note]</a><div id="_note_10661" style="display:none;background-color:#FFDD99;margin:0px;border:2px solid #800000; padding:2px;">* See Appendix for definitions of <i>Freud</i> and <i>psychoanalysis</i>.</div>
the psychiatrists
know little about the cause of insanity or the reason for recovery.


Sudden and complete recovery sometimes occurs after years of
insanity, following a physical illness, a blow on the head or from
no apparent cause. Certain drugs or a serious oxygen deficiency
induce temporarily every symptom of dementia praecox. A high
fever causes temporary madness. Likewise, lowering the body temperature
of a dementia praecox patient ten degrees brings temporary
sanity.


Refrigeration as a treatment for schizophrenics is interestingly
described in George Wright Gray's <i>The Advancing Front of
Medicine:</i>


It was first announced in the spring of 1941 by Drs. John H. Talbott and
Kenneth J. Tillotson of Boston. They reported on ten schizophrenics who
had failed to benefit from insulin, metrazol, and other agencies. The patients
were given a light anesthetic to make them less sensitive to cold,
were wrapped in rubberized blankets through which a fluid refrigerant
circulated, and by these means their temperatures were reduced below the
normal 98.6° F. Each treatment lasted from twenty-four to seventy-two
hours, during which internal body temperatures were maintained between
90° and 80°, with even lower readings reached for brief intervals. One
patient, a young woman who had not spoken to anyone for two years,
talked fluently and logically when her temperature was around 89°, but
lapsed into confused speech when the thermometer rose to 93°. After her
third session with refrigeration, the woman's mental condition remained
more nearly lucid with only an occasional schizophrenic phase. ...


It is not a hopeless problem; possibly simpler than a cure for the
common cold. But the men who control this field of medicine will
never reach a sane solution.


The psychiatrist would have you think that he alone is capable
of helping men and women who are neurotic or psychotic. Yet he

[p. <i>81</i>]

What qualifications do these alibi artists have? They hold medical
degrees, experience in asylum work being their only other
qualification.


There are a few mental doctors; capable men who are sincerely
interested in treating the mentally ill and helping neurotics live
with, or overcome, their neuroses. But there are not many such
doctors in the Freudian fringe of medicine.


<i>Newsweek</i> of September 22,1952, reports a study by Dr. Lester
Luborsky, psychologist of the Menninger Foundation, on the psychiatrists
trained at the Menninger school over a five-year period.
Dr. Luborsky reports on 33 of the best psychiatrists, designated as
"highs," and 33 "lows."


The psychologist reports that the "lows" were moody, depressed
and unhappy; that "they grew angry with their patients."


While denying "the trash published about the peculiarities of
<i>all</i> psychiatrists," Dr. Luborsky admits that "more than half of the
lows were seriously sick people," many of whom have been hospitalized
for their emotional difficulties.


The private psychiatrist specializes in the "treatment" of neurotics,
because of personality inadequacies that render him incapable
of dealing with normal men and women.


The asylum psychiatrist has such extreme inadequacies that he
cannot deal with the neurotics. Hiding in the asylum, he classes all
inmates as insane, then feels himself superior. Emotionally unstable
and ashamed of his work, he worries continually, seeing the
inmates as the cause of his worry and shame. Thus he comes to hate
the unfortunates he professes to treat. This hatred, eating away at
his warped personality, ripens into sadism.


As the psychiatrist refuses to recognize the normal man, so he
rejects the normal in the mentally ill. Operating an institution that

[p. <i>82</i>]

Many of the so-called symptoms are not symptoms at all. An
inmate must adjust to his mental illness—if any—and the intolerable
asylum life, if he is to survive. Each adjusts in his own way;
the mind playing strange tricks to save itself. One retreats into
himself, never speaking, one rants and raves and curses, one writes
continuously, one decorates himself with doodads, while another
vents his feelings by fighting.


"My friend Mr. Snow" stood in exaggerated positions and "gestured
hypnotically" and never uttered a word. He was the ward
attraction that first day; then no one paid him any attention. A
week later he had discontinued all mannerisms and was showing
five handkerchiefs—gifts from famous men. Then we tired of the
handkerchiefs, and he stopped talking and began falling to the
floor on his face—breaking his fall with his hands. "My friend Mr.
Snow" was a lonesome man who wanted attention. However, to
the psychiatrists his antics were psychotic symptoms.


Seeing visions and hearing voices is no cause for condemning a
man to lifetime imprisonment. Even the prophets of old heard
voices and saw visions.


Hallucinations are often no more than tall tales, told repeatedly
to gain attention; sometimes the patient's excuse to himself and to
others for his mental condition. A veteran, sane in most respects,
said his stomach was lined with hair. He did not believe this, but it
made a good story and he enjoyed telling it. Another said that for
two years he had been under the hypnotic influence of an Army
psychiatrist, and that he would straighten out if the psychiatrist
would remove the spell. Midas stopped telling about his gold gun
after I purchased it for a quarter. Then to get our attention he told
about his Buck Rogers plane. Just for the hell of it, one boy told the
Staff he often saw angels on the golf course. And the psychiatrists
kept him confined until he admitted the angels were gone.


Ninety percent of the mentally ill are separated into three
groups: dementia praecox (schizophrenia); psychosis, manic-depressive;
and senile dementia. However, exhaustive study shows
age as the primary differential. Dementia praecox is the insanity of

[p. <i>83</i>]

These three groups are divided into types according to behavior
patterns.


Refusing to recognize the normal, the psychiatrists diagnose
every prospect into one of the groups and types.


Having agreed on the groups and types, the psychiatrists admit
that the characteristics are often overlapping and contradictory.
With no standards for judging behavior, each uses his own good
or bad judgment. Thus, as in my case, a patient is often given a
different diagnosis by each psychiatrist.


At Swift Hospital I was diagnosed as having an anxiety state,
because I "bucked Army brass." Three days later the psychiatrists
gave me a diagnosis of hypomanic state; basing their conclusion on
my statement, "I feel fine," which they said proved unreliability.


Two weeks later I was accused of being overactive, overtalkative,
demanding, fault-finding, hostile, threatening, writing too
much, thinking too fast and telling obscene jokes. The psychiatrists
said this proved I was suffering from psychosis, manic-depressive,
manic type, from which I would not recover.


Now the VA psychiatrists—ten of them—had decided to disregard
their own observations and appropriate all charges made by
persons they had never seen. From their list of psychiatric terms
they selected a diagnosis warranting lifetime confinement: dementia
praecox, paranoid type, with complete social and economic
inadaptability, dangerous to the public.


Where the other diagnoses were preposterous, this one was impossible.


Dementia praecox, also known as schizophrenia, is best described
in George Wright Gray's <i>The Advancing Front of Medicine:</i>


Schizophrenia also has its disturbed chemistry.... One of the most
comprehensive investigations is that which has been under way for several
years at the Worcester State Hospital in Massachusetts, where Dr. Roy G.
Hoskins and his associates have followed the records of three hundred

[p. <i>84</i>]

Thus the schizophrenic body lives at a slower rate than the normal, the
heart pumps more slowly, the blood flows under reduced pressure, the
oxygen consumption is low. Dr. Hoskins calls attention to the fact that the
normal man's body slows its activity in just these same ways when he is
asleep, a circumstance which fits the picture of a schizophrenic as one who
lives in a dream.


"His dream differs from your dream and mine mostly in that on awakening
from sleep the dream is not dismissed," said Dr. Hoskins. "The activities
of the dream are carried on, rather than merely being visualized.
The schizophrenic state and the dream state are strikingly similar in the
free use of symbolism. Things do not mean what they seem, but what they
signify in the patient's own particular code. If the reader will imagine that
he has been awakened from a vivid dream, but that as he went about his
affairs the dream continued to occupy the greater part of his attention, to
dominate his thought and his activity, he will have a sufficiently accurate
picture of schizophrenia for the purposes of this discussion. Largely it is a
manifestation of more or less disguised wishes or fears masquerading as
accepted reality." ... Is this horrible disease, then, a thing of low
oxygenation and other purely chemical operations that might be corrected
if we knew their controls? It would seem so....


Gould's Medical Dictionary defines dementia praecox as "A
dementia more or less complete, which appears at the age of puberty
in those previously intellectually bright. There is an upset
physical equilibrium with low metabolic rate, low blood pressure,
low pulse rate, and a high waste output." Dementia is defined as
"A form of insanity characterized by deterioration or loss of the
intellectual faculties, the reasoning power, the memory and the
will."


This definition exposes the fakery of psychiatric diagnosis. A
nurse or technician can give a metabolism test and check pulse and
blood pressure, and know whether a man is insane.


I was forty years of age—far past the age of puberty—and my

[p. <i>85</i>]

My diary and letters—forwarded from the Army hospital—
were proof of my sanity, as was the Army Neuropsychiatric Behavior
Chart. Camille's lengthy report—in this same file—verified
my story. And, in her diary of our visits, she reported: "Still reasons
perfectly—far better than anyone I know."


Dr. Miracola stated in his report, "He is pleasant, cogenial and
co-operative. He is oriented in all spheres and is in good contact.
His memory for remote and recent events is good. His thought
content is coherent and relevant."


How had the psychiatrists arrived at my diagnosis? Either they
conspired against me; else were lost in some form of <i>mad logic</i>.


That afternoon I wrote the Hospital Manager a letter of protest:


I appeared before the Staff today. Enclosed is transcript, prepared by
me immediately after the hearing. Please advise me of any errors.


Dr. Tighe advised me this afternoon that the Staff had decided that my
demand for release be heard before a local court. It is odd that this hospital,
a facility of the Federal Government, should appeal a case to a local court.
Request that I be advised the nature of the proposed hearing, the authority
for the action, the court and the date.


Dr. Tighe again agreed that three weeks of interviews and examinations
here indicate that I am normal in every way. He could give me no reason
why the Staff decided against my release.


I request permission to make unlimited number of telephone calls from
the pay station at the Canteen.


When I gave this letter to Dr. Tighe he said that since I was to
be committed I could no longer use the phone.


Feeling as though a noose were drawing tight around my neck,
I wrote another letter calling attention to my many demands for
release.


<i>Monday, July 16th</i>, an attendant escorted me to the office of
the Hospital Manager.

[p. <i>86</i>]

"You must be somebody important," the attendant said. "Dr.
Witten don't bother with patients."


Dr. H. O. Witten—pleasant and indolent—somehow reminded
me of a small-town politician. His duties being entirely administrative,
Dr. Witten took no part in medical or psychiatric affairs. In
fact he took little part in anything; letting the asylum run itself,
while he waited out his retirement.


"I'm here to personally appeal to you for my release," I stated.
I then reviewed the cause of my confinement.


As I talked, Dr. Witten read his morning mail. "Why do you
think they confined you if you're sane?" he wanted to know.


And I frankly replied, "It is my opinion that the mental diagnosis
was thrown at me to disqualify any charges I might make to the
War Department."


"I can't see why you want to bring me into this," Dr. Witten protested.
"I leave everything concerning patients up to Dr. Walton
and the Staff."


En route to Lenwood I had written the Governor an appeal for
help. As a matter of office routine my letter was forwarded to the
Director of State Veterans Service. The Governor did not reply,
but the Director sent me a copy of his memorandum.


"We have investigated this case," the memorandum read, "and
find that Thomas G. E. Wilkes is a mental case. This office will
exercise diligence to see that a competent guardian is appointed
to protect his interests."


Angrily tearing the memorandum to shreds, I cursed the society
that gives an asylum inmate less consideration than the vilest
criminal.


"You haven't got a chance without outside help," an Augusta
alcoholic told me. "A court anywhere will take the psychiatrists'
word over yours. Here you're up against the Cracker Party."


"That's encouraging," I said. "Tell me about this Cracker Party."


He got up and joined me in walking from one end of the room
to the other. "Tom," he said, "here's the picture: for twenty years
the Cracker Party has run Augusta and Richmond County. The
Boss' word is law. And, believe it or not, his influence reaches right

[p. <i>87</i>]

"It does look bad," I agreed, "but I'll fight if you tell me how I
can get an attorney out here."


"Boy, I admire your guts," he said. "Well, you got to have a
Cracker Party lawyer. Here, I'll list the best ones. Now this first
one is a power in the County as well as the State. You'd get out if
you could get him. This next one is all right. The last one here—
well—he rates with the Party. I'd go see them for you, except I'll
be here two more weeks. Well, there you are; and good luck. Boy,
you need it!"


That afternoon I wrote to the three attorneys, giving all pertinent
details of my case and emphasizing my ability to pay. A
sympathetic vistor mailed the letters.


An associate of the third attorney on my list came to see me
three days later. He prepared, and I signed, a habeas corpus petition
to the Judge of the City Court, charging that my confinement was
illegal as no court order authorized it, unjustified as I was not
mentally ill.


<i>Friday, July 27th</i>, I was escorted to the Richmond County courthouse,
a delapidated building constructed shortly after the Civil
War. We went to the basement—used primarily for the storage of
obsolete furniture—and to the Judge's chambers.


"You keep the patient down here," Dr. Tighe told the attendant.
"Dr. Miracola and I are going out."


In the ante-room where I waited, a stuffed owl perched on a pile
of junk furniture.


The psychiatrists joined Mr. Vaux Owen, the VA State Attorney,
and Camille in another part of the courthouse.


Mr. Owen and Camille had ridden from Atlanta in my car, deciding
en route that she would conceal her presence unless her
testimony was required.


My attorney said nothing when he came in; just handed me the
check I had given him. It was stamped "Account Closed."

[p. <i>88</i>]

"Evidently my wife closed our account," I said, "but you'll get
your money as soon as I get out."


"We don't do business that way," he stated. "I told you I wanted
the money before the hearing." Turning, he entered the Judge's
chambers.


The Judge, Mr. Owen and the psychiatrists then came through
the room, their actions denying my existence. Sitting down around
the Judge's desk, they began discussing the Manager's response to
my petition.


Included as exhibit "A" was the lengthy Staff Findings and Conclusions,
alleging that I was insane and dangerous to the public.
The response falsely alleged that "commitment proceedings to
have petitioner legally committed have been commenced." The
proceedings were not commenced until the following week, when
the petition was filed in the Court of Ordinary.


I could see through the open doorway, but could not hear my
opponents' arguments. Then I heard my attorney say: "We have
no evidence to offer."


I entered the Judge's chambers over the attendant's protest. I
said, "Your Honor, I ask that I be heard."


The Judge turned in his chair to face me. Slowly his eyes traveled
from my shoes to the top of my head. "Are you a psychiatrist?"
he asked. His voice was sardonic.


"Your Honor," I stated, "I am the subject of this hearing—a
sane man, illegally confined in the VA asylum."


"Your testimony would have no weight against that of these
psychiatrists," the Judge stated. Standing up, he put on his hat, then
signed an adverse order. Turning to me, he said ominously: "There
are some things you must forget!"


Camille returned to Atlanta without letting me know of her
presence in Augusta.


She had been a faithful wife for twelve years, considerate of
my wishes and loving me as much as she was capable of loving
any man. So it was difficult for me to even consider the possibility
that she had deliberately turned against me. Yet I knew that some
wives do frame their husbands into asylums and that I must consider

[p. <i>89</i>]

It was possible she had been convinced that I was mentally ill
and that she had an exaggerated fear of anyone who had suffered
such illness.


Then it could be that Camille, herself, was mentally ill.


For days I weighed these possibilities and every possible combination
of them, without reaching a decision. I wondered if I
would ever know. But I knew beyond a doubt that I had lost the
woman I loved, and that she was working against me.


This was far harder to endure than was my confinement. Never,
at any time, did I doubt my ability to eventually effect my release.
But to know, at a time when I was helpless, that Camille had
turned against me was almost more than I could bear. So I continued
writing as a man writes a loving wife and sweetheart,
hoping against hope that my decision about her was in error.


But I was not wrong.


Camille had delayed her departure from the Army hospital until
she was certain I would not be released, staying there four days
after telling me goodbye.


Then, as she was leaving, she said to the Red Cross worker: "I
can't bear to talk with him again. To me he is now dead!"


Camille wrote to my aunt and uncle before going to Augusta
for the habeas corpus hearing.


Tom is <i>insane</i>. The doctors call it dementia praecox, paranoid type. He
talks fairly sane at times, but plans things against people most of the time,
and thinks others are doing things to him.


I have been so disappointed that you have not signed the petition and
sent it back as it has to be done. You see when the Army decided he could
not be cured he was retired from the Army and sent to the Veterans Administration
Mental Institution at Augusta. After three weeks of observations
the doctors agreed with the Army doctors that his condition was
serious and he is dangerous and must be committed.

[p. <i>90</i>]

Remember I am his wife and stayed with him for days while he was in
the Violent Ward—so please help us.


After going to Augusta for the habeas corpus hearing Camille
wrote:


Thought you would like to know the hospital's diagnosis as it came two
weeks ago. It is "dementia praecox, paranoid type, socially and economically
unadaptable, dangerous to the public" and must be hospitalized. I hope you
will go to a library and read what these terms mean. Paranoia *
<a href="javascript: __showhidenote('_note_33796');">[note]</a><div id="_note_33796" style="display:none;background-color:#FFDD99;margin:0px;border:2px solid #800000; padding:2px;">* See Appendix for definition.</div>
is one of
the most dangerous types of insanity known, principally because the patient
seems so sane at times and will do anything and they are always homicidal.


Tom makes an excellent impression and perhaps could fool a stranger
but not anyone who knows him. He hired a lawyer last week and gave him
a $100 check that was no good. As I guess you have already heard the
lawyer believed everything Tom said. But this is the way it came out. My
sister and I were called down there as witnesses; had to stay two days and
when we got there, the lawyer refused to handle Tom's side as from Tom's
notes he decided he was insane.


Tom has written my sister some letters that are horrible. I have been
so sorry that she has to be involved in this. She is ashamed to stand in court
and read those letters before men.


The doctors told the Judge yesterday that they certainly could not be
responsible for his acts as he was potentially a most dangerous patient. The
doctors say he takes down every word they say. He thinks he is a lawyer
and he is going to try them.


After receiving the signed petition for commitment, Camille
wrote my aunt:


Thanks for you and Uncle George signing them. I know it hurt you almost
as much as it did me. I have grieved so much I hope I can get over
it to some extent. What is done is done and if the doctors can't cure Tom's
mind, then my grieving is only hurting me.


Sometimes his letters sound almost like him—then the next one will be
terrible.


For days he would not eat as he thought his food was poisoned and the
doctors asked me to sit by his bed and try to get him to eat. Aunt Cora, as
long as I live, I do not guess I will forget sitting by and watching him go
insane.


Three hospitals have now had him and about forty or fifty doctors saw
him and they all say the same thing—just plain insanity.

[p. <i>91</i>]

Ten days later Camille wrote my aunt:


He looks well, but his poor old mind is going faster and faster. He told
me that the entire Army and Veterans Administration were framing up
on him and making him go insane. Of course they are doing their best, but
there is little to work with now. I talked to his doctors about two hours
and they both said there was not a chance for him to ever be out again.


The day she returned home Camille began telling about my
"depraved condition":


"Sexually he's always been awful! Why, all during our married
life he'd keep women in hotels—and the things he'd do! Most
of the paranoids are that way; but he's not passive like some of
them. He's worse than he ever was! There's no telling what he
will do next! He's lost interest in his appearance and that's not
like Tom. You know he was always so immaculate. Why, he even
washes his clothes in the commode! But he's still got a keen mind.
He's so cunning I just don't know what to expect next! The psychiatrists
tell me he's the most dangerous mental case they ever
saw. Why, he'll be sitting right there, smiling at you, and all the
time he's plotting to kill you, or something even worse."


Camille conferred with two prominent attorneys, who referred
her to the VA State Attorney and called him in her behalf.


Two days after my arrival at Lenwood, Mr. Vaux Owen wrote
the Hospital Manager, requesting a report on "the dangerous Tom
Wilkes."


That same day he also composed a letter from Camille to the
Hospital Manager:


My husband, Thomas Wilkes, was first confined in the psychopathic
ward at Camp Swift, Texas. The doctors there reached the conclusion that
he was insane. He has made various threats on the lives of various people.
He also has near relatives that are insane.


While I love him deeply, I do not believe it would be safe for him to be
released. I am requesting that he be held until his condition can be ascertained
and that you report the case to Mr. Vaux Owen, Veterans Administration
State Attorney.


The following week Camille wrote a second letter to the Hospital
Manager:

[p. <i>92</i>]

His letters from Augusta still show his state. He writes me for letters
written in code, packed in empty cigarette packs and I know nothing of
them. Last week from the hospital in Augusta he telephoned my sister
collect, and told her the hospital was holding him because he knows so
much on Army doctors.


Mr. Wilkes writes that one reason he wants to keep his Army uniform
on is to be able to fly over the country and make contacts. He wants to go
in business with Henry Kaiser and make $15,000 the first month. He also
writes me to buy $3,000 worth of stocks, but to look for customers first.


He has sent out numerous checks which have caused me much trouble
in straightening out, at quite an expense to me. He sent me several wires
collect last week asking for $50 and his civilian clothing; then others saying
not to send them. After I left McCloskey General Hospital on June 5,
he sent me wires collect every day just as greetings at $1 per wire. I cannot
possibly pay my telephone bill as I cannot get Mr. Wilkes' Army pay,
as he was ruled mentally incompetent there in the Army hospital.


In another letter he writes to save his Army coats as he will need them
this winter. In the same letter he writes to have his straw hat blocked.
There are numbers of things exactly like the above.


Mr. Wilkes wrote volumes while in McCloskey and gave those writings
to me, which I turned over to his doctors.


In another paragraph in one letter, which should be in the file, he writes
to Walt Disney, asking for eight of the original drawings of <i>Snow White
and the Seven Dwarfs</i>, and to send them C.O.D. This would probably
cost $500.


Far be it from me to tell you how to run your patients, but my husband
is dangerous to himself and to others, and I have heard all of his threats,
and it is my duty to protect him and those he has threatened.


During this period Camille wrote to me regularly, beginning
each letter with declarations of love and devotion. She referred to
the Bible, her prayers for my recovery, and supplications to the Almighty
to bless me; then closed with further declarations of love.

