TRANSCRIPT OF AUDIO FILE:
______________________________________________________________________________
BEGIN TRANSCRIPT:
CLIENT: Thought you said videotape.
THERAPIST: Oh, (laughter).
CLIENT: No, do you know (inaudible 0:00:06.5), I was like oh, okay, okay, okay.
THERAPIST: Yes, no. It is just for honestly (inaudible 0:00:11.1) get listened to by anyone but me.
CLIENT: Right. It is just to review and whatever, yes.
CLIENT: Yes, yes no problem.
THERAPIST: Sure.
CLIENT: Then you will know that is fine.
THERAPIST: So how was your trip over here, are you close?
CLIENT: Yes, well I am from Chicago and I am living on 17th Street.
THERAPIST: Okay.
CLIENT: Yes, it is kind of an interesting story, I can tell you. It is part of the reason why I am here.
THERAPIST: Okay.
CLIENT: I have been living in Portugal, Lisbon for the past year and a half.
THERAPIST: Wow.
CLIENT: Yes, I was working actually in finance. Well, I am one of those people I never - I didn't know what I wanted to do out of college. So I started - tried a couple of things, whatever. I wound up landing a pretty good job at HSBC. I am not - I knew I probably was not the finance type.
THERAPIST: Yes.
CLIENT: But it seemed like a good opportunity to try it, so I did. I did not like it immediately. So about a year later I decided, okay. I do not know why, but I wanted to move to Seattle. I had been there a few times. I fell in love with the city.
THERAPIST: Good.
[0:01:17.4]
CLIENT: I was actually planning on transferring that job that I hated to Seattle just to get there whatever. I mentioned it to a friend. She was kind of in a weird position. She could not find a job. She is a lawyer. I would - we just spoke about moving there and then randomly we spoke about moving to Portugal. It was just random, random, random. We wound up realizing we could go there and teach English make a living whatever.
THERAPIST: Wow.
CLIENT: And so basically we did not really plan it very much. It was kind of just we found this program, we could do a teaching English Foreign language thing. Got a job through them. It sounded really good, so we just went for it.
THERAPIST: This is a friend from HSBC or a friend?
CLIENT: This is a friend from high school.
THERAPIST: Okay.
CLIENT: Yes, and we did that, and before we were concerned about the whole visa issue, because you can only really stay in Europe three months without a visa and then it is an issue. So we asked the school and kind of they told us, once you get here we can work it out, blah, blah, blah. So we are great, perfect.
THERAPIST: Oh, so they did not set up the visa beforehand?
CLIENT: They did not.
THERAPIST: Okay. (Laughter).
[0:02:22.5]
CLIENT: So I think you know where this is ultimately going, so yes so we went. By August, this was April of today. I do not even know what year, 2007, 2006.
THERAPIST: Okay.
CLIENT: By August of the same year my friend was kind of like I want to be a lawyer. I am sick of teaching. I do not like it, I want to leave. I felt completely opposite. I was like I really like teaching. I just discovered this.
THERAPIST: Wow.
CLIENT: I really love Portugal. I love being in a different place where I am learning different things, our cultures and, blah, blah, blah. I want to stay. So at that point it was like I decide either I am staying by myself, and trying to really work it out here or I am going home, try to get a visa and I have only been there for four-ish months so the chances of me going home, and then coming back after I already started making a little -
[0:03:13.0]
THERAPIST: So you were there the fourth month and were you there before the fourth month?
CLIENT: No.
THERAPIST: Okay.
CLIENT: Yes, but that was the thing, it was I can either go home, and work this out legally.
THERAPIST: Yes.
CLIENT: Or -
THERAPIST: And if you (inaudible 0:03:22.8) realize that you were there a month (inaudible 0:03:25.2).
CLIENT: Exactly and there might be a problem. So and everyone always said, I mean, it is stupid. I mean, I am old enough to know that you should not really listen to it what other people are saying whatever. But it really was not an issue for Americans. These people would come in and out of the country years, and years, and never get stopped, and I believed it. I wanted to believe it more than anything, you know?
THERAPIST: Yes.
CLIENT: And so I never did. I never did that. I wound up getting a job at this English academy. They also said oh yes, your visa you can get your visa. So I was great, six months to a year, fine. I am going to be here. So spring rolls around this past year, and I was like I had to ask for some reason I just checked up on the progress of it, and the director of the school said, "Oh they denied the visa." This really weird, shady kind of guy so I kind of think he might have been lying the whole time and whatever.
THERAPIST: Yes.
[0:04:18.7]
CLIENT: So that was that. At the same time that this happened I had, okay. I also had besides this job a private client base. There was really this one guy I had since the beginning who referred me yes.
(Crosstalk)
CLIENT: Yes, yes that who referred me all these other private clients, which was great.
THERAPIST: To teach English or to do finance?
CLIENT: Teaching.
THERAPIST: Okay. I was (laughter).
THERAPIST: Actually no because they were - they are investment bankers, all of them.
THERAPIST: Oh, okay.
CLIENT: So they liked me I think, because I had an understanding of -
THERAPIST: What you need to do.
CLIENT: Yes and so he refers me this guy who I meet at the same time the director tell me I do not have the visa, who is my age. I immediately was just okay. Something can happen with this - something could possibly happen, you just knew.
[0:05:01.9]
Long story short we are now dating. He was just here in Chicago. I came home in August, and planned on going back the second week or last week, and staying indefinitely without a visa again. And he was here for three weeks visiting. It was amazing, and just we have only been together two months. So this is the second month, and it was just amazing.
So he goes back. He had actually end up extending his visit, and we go back together. And I am stopped. I was stopped at immigration.
THERAPIST: Oh my God.
CLIENT: And put in like a holding area. It was not a jail but I mean, it is the closest I have ever been to jail.
THERAPIST: Yes.
CLIENT: So I like to say it was jail with all these other people who were illegal, and stopped or for whatever reason they were detained, and I had to stay overnight and then was sent back here. Yes and I do not know, my boyfriend he is very, very rational and I am very, very emotional.
And that is the only really big difference between us. I mean, there are other differences, but there are easy differences. This one is just he does not understand the way I think sometimes, and the truth is I do not understand the way I think sometimes (laughter).
So but whatever but it is - everything is so black and white to him, and sometimes it is frustrating for me. Because while I think you should be more rational than I usually am in those situations, it is not - things are not always that simple.
[0:06:36.9]
And it is really, really scary, sad, emotional situation for me, although I knew it was possible the whole time. I just feel like sometimes knowing that you are doing something wrong or knowing that something is possible does not make it easier when it happens.
THERAPIST: Yes.
CLIENT: Just generally speaking.
THERAPIST: Did he realize that, that was a possibility (inaudible 0:07:03.2)
CLIENT: No, I neglected to tell him that, but he was not angry. The thing is that he is really understanding, and I probably would have been really angry with him for not telling me, and all this, but it was not an issue.
The issue was my reaction to the situation. Not just with him, but with my family, with myself, like there are some situations where there are I do not know why, but I literally react like the world is ending, and I can not get out of my own way.
THERAPIST: Kind of like catastrophic thinking?
CLIENT: Yes, and I mean, for the first three days I was not hysterical, but on the verge of tears at every second. Anything made me cry, I could barely function.
THERAPIST: And when were you sent back, when was this?
CLIENT: Oh God, what is today? Today is Wednesday.
THERAPIST: Oh so this is -
CLIENT: Okay. So last Wednesday.
THERAPIST: This is really recent?
CLIENT: Yes.
THERAPIST: Okay.
CLIENT: So last Wednesday at this time I was in the immigrants holding area and then I was sent back Thursday morning. So yes, so it is one week and right now I mean, I would say since about Sunday-ish I have been so much better to the point where I am -
THERAPIST: Yes.
[0:08:15.7]
CLIENT: I do not know, should I really talk to someone about this, because you know sometimes you call people, because you are in such a panic state. And then once you feel better sometimes you are I do not know if I really need it. But it is not just this situation. There are others that I think I over react in, and there have been many others.
THERAPIST: Okay.
CLIENT: And then there are just other things that I - other ways that I react to other situations, not as catastrophic, but I just do not think it is a, I do not know.
THERAPIST: (inaudible 0:08:46.6).
CLIENT: It is positive, but it is not helping, and it is really, it is hurting the people around me, and it hurts me more than anyone.
THERAPIST: So what is your boyfriend's name?
CLIENT: Fernão.His name is Justino (ph?). It is like a really --
THERAPIST: Spanish?
CLIENT: Yes, it really old school accent too, yes.
THERAPIST: Okay. And where have - are you basically not allowed back into Portugal ever?
CLIENT: Yes, oh yes. Sorry forgot to mention that. So I am not allowed back into Portugal until November 1st.
[0:09:11.7]
THERAPIST: Oh, so you -
CLIENT: Yes.
THERAPIST: I have a date that you (inaudible 0:09:15.3)
CLIENT: I do. I can go back (inaudible 0:09:17.5).
THERAPIST: Wow. That could be a lot worse.
CLIENT: I know because at first...
THERAPIST: I thought you were banned forever.
CLIENT: The lady, the policewoman that she told me, because she was telling me in English so I was just I can not deal with this in Portuguese.
THERAPIST: Yes.
CLIENT: I am sorry, and she was just her English was not perfect. She was like, "You can never come back to Portugal." And then there was a pause until November because (laughter) her English was not great. And I was (inaudible 0:09:43.6) (laughter) (inaudible 0:09:41.70).
But yes, so it is not the worse thing in the world, but the way that I reacted, you would have thought -
THERAPIST: Yes.
CLIENT: They banned me from the country and I lost everything that was important. You know like, everything.
THERAPIST: So your plan at this point is to go back in November or -
CLIENT: That is another - that was another source of stress and sadness or whatever, is that first of all, the visa process is not easy. And it is not the easiest process regardless.
THERAPIST: No.
CLIENT: The easiest thing for me to do, well, the easiest in terms of not having to pay and, blah, blah, blah, would be if I could find some (inaudible 0:10:22.0) school to sponsor me, but while I am here it is difficult, because I cannot go there interview. I cannot whatever, so I have my boyfriend and the student who referred me there to kind of helping me try to look into options there.
[0:10:36.8]
It does not seem very likely. The other action is to study. That is a problem, because I have no money, which I mean, schools are really, really cheap there. But I think in order to get the visa you have to prove that someone is financially responsible for you.
THERAPIST: Yes.
CLIENT: If you do not have a certain amount of money.
THERAPIST: Yes.
CLIENT: And the other issue there is my parents do not have a lot - do not have money. And I mean, they have - I do not know. They really do not. They have nothing and I do not know that they are going to be able to even show - even if they say to me, look we will help you out but we cannot pay for the school aid. We will write the letter stating we have -
THERAPIST: Yes.
CLIENT: Enough money. I do not even think they have money in the bank to do it.
THERAPIST: Okay.
CLIENT: So it is the other issue that is like oh. Another issue is that my boyfriend he is really wonderful. He is everything I ever wanted in a person. Really, I cannot I mean, he is amazing. For me he is just perfect but he has a family problem. He comes from a family a very traditional, conservative strict Roman Catholic family.
[0:11:48.3]
And he is the polar opposite in every way from them. So that has been a problem for him just within his own family, but they are also extremely wealthy and they control. It is his fault, and the truth is I do not know the full story, but somehow he is 28 years old, and he still is kind of under their control.
And I am not judgmental about it, because he is so great, and he is not a loser, and he is trying to find his own way without ruining his whole family relationship, that I am not angry about it. But for example, he is not allowed to stay out past nine o'clock on the weekdays and he is 28 years old and it is just -
(Crosstalk)
THERAPIST: (inaudible 0:12:31.1) parents?
CLIENT: Yes, I mean, they will not even let him (inaudible 0:12:33.5)
THERAPIST: That happens from what I heard in other countries.
CLIENT: Yes.
THERAPIST: I know some people in France. It seems like more common.
CLIENT: Yes, I think it is.
THERAPIST: To do that until you get married, and then you move out especially if you are a student (inaudible 0:12:45.8).
CLIENT: Right. The thing is -
THERAPIST: Again, that must be hard (laughter).
[0:12:50.6]
CLIENT: Yes, I mean, now I am thinking I am beating myself, beating myself, beating myself up over the fact that I am not there right now. We had such a wonderful three weeks together. He stayed in my apartment.
THERAPIST: Yes.
CLIENT: That was great. And then if I went back, we would not even be able to see each other. I probably would be working until nine o'clock every night, which I was doing last year, and he cannot even stay out.
THERAPIST: Well, how was it working when you were there?
CLIENT: The thing was we started dating at the end of June, beginning of July. He had just finished law school there. He was taking the bare equivalent to the Bar Exam, and so he was studying everyday. I did not realize that they allowed him - he was allowed to stay out all night, because they thought he was studying.
THERAPIST: Yes.
[0:13:35.4]
CLIENT: But that was really why and then the parents have a summer home, and they were there the rest of July, so they did not know what he was doing. And I mean, the thing is he is trying to figure out a way to - well he is trying to figure out what he wants to do.
He decided that he does not want to be a lawyer, which is fine. They forced him into it whatever, but he does not know yet. He is trying to figure it out, but once he does have a plan, he is hoping that whatever the plan is, he can somehow incorporate going abroad for (inaudible 0:14:09.2) maybe or somewhere for the next year.
THERAPIST: Okay. So maybe instead of (inaudible 0:14:14.4) he could -
CLIENT: Maybe but it is so up in the air.
THERAPIST: Especially since his family has a lot of money it will be -
CLIENT: Here is the thing, it is easier - I think it might be easier for him even just to do a study in English program.
THERAPIST: Yes.
[0:14:25.0]
CLIENT: It would be great because his English is great, but he could certainly improve it.
THERAPIST: And they are not getting (inaudible 0:14:30.5) America aside from school is very difficult from personal experience, but -
(Crosstalk)
THERAPIST: I think it is pretty much you get accepted to a school.
CLIENT: I think work visas, yes and then they kind of have to give it to you. Any work visa unless you cannot financially, whatever and then he can whatever, but yes in getting work visas to go anywhere is extremely difficult. But anyway, yes so that is the issue and -
THERAPIST: So what would you like to work on here?
CLIENT: I would like to work on, well -
THERAPIST: That (inaudible 0:15:09.5) is very interesting (laughter), but I just want to make sure we are addressing what you want.
CLIENT: Yes.
THERAPIST: You want to address here.
CLIENT: The thing is I want to work on my reaction to situations like this, because my immediate reaction is so excessive. And although I do feel like it is justified in some ways depending upon the situation, it is still excessive. The carrying on, the crying, the calling people nonstop because I am like desperate to talk.
[0:15:35.6]
It is too much and it is okay to a certain extent but at the point really where people are seriously worried about you, it gets to be scary. And I am like I never been suicidal or anything like that, but it is a state of panic, and to the point where I cannot do anything. I do not want to do anything and it is too much.
THERAPIST: And how often would you say like an incident like that. I mean, that was probably one of the bigger ones just because it was so much more traumatic, yes.
CLIENT: And a little bit more traumatic, yes.
THERAPIST: Yes.
CLIENT: Well, not often. The thing is not often but -
THERAPIST: Would you say once a month, once every three months?
CLIENT: No. I mean, whenever anything life changing happens. I would say like break up with a boyfriend. I do not know. A lot of times it is like if I am forced to do something, it is not even though. I was going to say if I am forced to do something I do not want to do, but it is not, because I have to do things I do not want to do a lot.
THERAPIST: So this is all in preparation of another incident in being able to cope more?
CLIENT: Yes, exactly being able to cope with...
THERAPIST: Functionally.
[0:16:42.6]
CLIENT: Yes, or even for example I am lucky enough to not have experience a death in my family of a close family member. But if I did, I do not know. I mean, I am not sure I would be able to cope with it, and unfortunately it is something that just happens in life, and although difficult, and I cannot even image it happening. It is -
THERAPIST: Okay.
CLIENT: Going to happen.
THERAPIST: Okay.
CLIENT: So -
THERAPIST: Let me tell you a little bit about what we do here, because it is funny you were talking about being more rational. Do you know what type of therapy that we do here?
CLIENT: Yes. It is random because -
(Crosstalk)
CLIENT: In the past I had this therapist that I used to go to.
THERAPIST: Okay.
CLIENT: But she is very, very, very expensive, and she was in my health insurance plan at one point. The thing is I cannot, she is $300 an hour or something.
THERAPIST: Aye, Yi, Yi.
CLIENT: Insane. She is wonderful but, and she had once suggested me that I contact this institute for another reason. I think it was a family issue or something a while ago. So I just randomly looked just to see, and I just saw the Rational Motor Behavioral Therapy and I was like oh my God, this is wonderful.
[0:17:48.3]
(Laughter).
CLIENT: It is like this is it and so it was exactly what I feel like I need.
THERAPIST: Right. Can I ask you about your prior experience with therapy and, why you were going?
CLIENT: Yes.
THERAPIST: And what your experience was like?
CLIENT: Yes, it is kind of interesting, but it was boyfriend related.
THERAPIST: And this was how many years ago?
CLIENT: The first time I think I was around 20, 21.
THERAPIST: Okay.
CLIENT: That was almost ten years ago. It is scary, yes. Yes.
[0:18:17.2]
THERAPIST: Okay. So that was then.
CLIENT: Yes.
THERAPIST: And then you were seeing someone more recently or no?
CLIENT: No, I was not seeing, he was the only one.
THERAPIST: So it was the only time?
CLIENT: Well, I guess yes then more recently. I guess the last time was about two years - it was when I was working at HSBC, and I had this awful, awful boss.
THERAPIST: Yes.
CLIENT: Just awful everyday and I could not ended up - I was having difficulty coping and then crying all the time. And so I started seeing her, and she actually took my insurance at the time so.
THERAPIST: Great, okay.
CLIENT: Yes, so.
THERAPIST: And what were your experiences like in therapy? Was it you coming in and talking the whole time, was there a lot of back and forth, did you have homework assignments?
CLIENT: Never homework assignments. Maybe assignments like try to think about this when you are in a situation that, type of thing.
THERAPIST: Okay.
CLIENT: More back and forth. More me talking as I tend to dominate the conversation anyway whether you like it or not. But yes, a little bit back and forth kind like how we have been.
THERAPIST: Okay.
CLIENT: Going so far.
[0:19:21.8]
THERAPIST: So this is a similar -
CLIENT: Yes.
THERAPIST: Experience so far?
CLIENT: Yes.
THERAPIST: Okay. Now I can start talking about RABT and how I think it could be helpful for you.
CLIENT: Right.
THERAPIST: Basically RABT is founded by Albert Ellis, Ellis Institute.
CLIENT: Right.
THERAPIST: So you are where it started.
CLIENT: Yes.
THERAPIST: It is kind of exciting for me as well. (Laughter)
CLIENT: Yes, no me too.
THERAPIST: It is very similar to CBT, Continuative Behavioral Therapy.
CLIENT: Okay.
THERAPIST: Which is kind of like, what most people know about as imperatively driven research. They do research on the psychology and they say, okay this is what is working.
CLIENT: Okay.
THERAPIST: So RABT and CBT had a lot in common...
END TRANSCRIPT
