Transcript of Audio File:
______________________________________________________________________________
BEGIN TRANSCRIPT:
CLIENT: Over the past month I've been getting very engaged in life and in social arrangements like for example I've been very involved in setting up events for Women in Science. And just basically arranging them. Picking up the food for them and paying them. And they've been very successful. And the events — it makes me happy that — because I've been co-chair for Women in Science for like a year and a half. And I was just kind of like a mess. Disorganized. The other co-chair was taking up a lot of the brunt of the work.
But beginning in this year she wasn't really doing anything and I wasn't doing anything much. And finally the Director came up to me and we talked about it. And so she pumped a lot of good ideas and enthusiasm. And so it's been going really good. [00:01:10]
THERAPIST: What kind of events have you been having?
CLIENT: So just basically social events where 20 to 30 women come like twice a month. And every week.
THERAPIST: That's quite a big turn out.
CLIENT: Yeah it is! Yeah we even met with the Harvard Women in Science in the Square. And yet they had ten people and we had ten people. And so it's — in a lot of sense and plus now I started [teams] every Wednesday at 3 o'clock. So it's a lot of — mentally it's been challenging because I have kind of — well it's been helpful in a sense because I was trying to overcome my social anxiety. But in another sense it is emotionally consuming. And while I like it, it's also like — it's just one thing that's been like a constant buzzer going off in my head. Oh you have to e-mail about events. Oh you have to R.S.V.P. [00:02:21]
And I also volunteered for Outreach. Working on Science Week. And that's going to be a week at the University. Or mostly what I'm working on is the last day of it. It's Saturday 10 a.m. to 2 p.m. where there is going to be 300 people coming in exploring all of these activities. And I've been having to basically buy everything. When I volunteered for this I just thought, "Oh I can help with the experiments." I didn't know it'd be like going to Target and picking up lots of stuff. (laughing) And just really like today I have to go and buy butterflies and graphite and tornado tubes. And I just had no clue. [00:03:11]
And what else happened? Oh my boyfriend's brother had a birthday. And his Dad came because he was thinking about moving to the area. And there was a lot of tension. I mean I can see like the Dad — there is a lot of tension between his Dad and Jeremy. And in fact the whole family.
THERAPIST: Dad and the whole family or Jeremy and the whole family?
CLIENT: Dad and the whole family. And it was kind of tough because arranging my life so that I can be dressed up and look nice to go have these events and it's like here I'm kind of stressing between two places. And I'm trying to get work done. I'm trying to do Science Week and Women in Science and now these dinners where — and they're kind of stressful in a sense for me because — well it's not stressful hanging out with Jeremy's Mom. [00:04:14]
She really likes me and I don't feel any pressure. But there is sort of more social engagement where there is like Jeremy's brother, Jeremy's sister in law, his Dad — who is very awkward. And whenever he sees me or reunites and I see him he always reminds me, "Oh, when I first saw you, you just were — I tell everyone how much of a dumb blonde you were. But that you actually go to Brown." And it's kind of like at first I think it was funny. But maybe the fifth, sixth time? It's like-
THERAPIST: It's not funny.
CLIENT: Yeah it's like I can look pretty and be smart too. In fact I'm probably smarter than you. But it's sort of like when I'm talking — I guess what makes all these encounters stressful is it's really giving forth myself. A lot of myself. [00:05:12]
THERAPIST: Yes it is.
CLIENT: I mean these people — like everyone is so demanding. And on top of everything I told my family in letters that I'm getting my Master's, or at least I applied. And no one's mentioned anything.
THERAPIST: Aww.
CLIENT: No one has mentioned anything. And here like I'll listen to my sister talk on and on about dance this and dance that. And what her cat is doing. But can't you acknowledge —?
THERAPIST: That's a big accomplishment.
CLIENT: Yeah and like (pause at [00:05:54] to 00:05:58). I mean my Dad is probably like, "Oh yeah -." I think he said, "That's cool." I think he did. But I haven't gotten to speak to my Mom in two months because whenever I call up she's either sleeping or my Dad's there. And so I don't want to say, "Oh, can I talk to Mom instead of you?" So I just wrote her a letter on Facebook. I mean it could be that she just hasn't checked her Facebook for that long. But since I told my sister I'd expect my sister to tell my Mom. [00:06:27]
THERAPIST: Mm-hmm.
CLIENT: I don't know like — and I find I'm looking for a lot of validation these days. I find myself — or at least I'm seeking it from Jeremy. And he's very reassuring. And tells me how proud he is of me and stuff. And I really appreciate that but in the same sense I shouldn't just be expecting it from him. I don't know. It just seems like you can keep on giving and you don't get back anything in return.
I mean of course I got thank you's from Women in Science because they were really happy. Like all my colleagues were like, "Oh this is such a good idea." And "Thank you."
THERAPIST: So where does it really feel like you're giving and not getting back? Because you are giving in lots of different places it sounds like. [00:07:19]
CLIENT: (slight chuckle)
THERAPIST: Where is it not being fed back?
CLIENT: Uh, (pause at [00:07:25] to 00:07:31) I think it's not being given back in terms of my family. I sort of feel like they don't care about what I'm doing.
THERAPIST: That must be really hurtful.
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: Because that's such an important part. Your family — they count so much.
CLIENT: Yeah they do! (pause at [00:07:54] to 00:08:01) Especially because of my sister. I mean she is giving me a little Easter gift and that was really sweet of her. But—.
THERAPIST: But you're really there for her a lot. [00:08:12]
CLIENT: I am! And that's the thing. And it's frustrating because I hold back a lot of my problems because I don't want to talk about my issues with my weight. I'm trying to not gain too much weight. And being happy with 118, 119. And she's like — I'll be like, "Oh I have to walk home. It's good exercise." And she'll be like, "Exercise? Oh I don't need any exercise. I just lost weight again."
And it's just like —. It's just frustrating. Because I think it's in my family. And sometimes I don't. And I also I think sometimes my boyfriend puts a lot of — he doesn't put a lot of pressure on me but he does. Because it's so like — it's difficult with all these social and family engagements to get anything sort of done in my day. [00:09:17]
And he'll make a snarky joke that I'm a student. "Wouldn't you like my schedule where I just go to sleep after breakfast." Sometimes I do. But then I work late that night. And I mean of course then again he also says, "Oh I'm so proud of you for your research." So I can forgive that.
But it's just like this — having to go back and forth between two houses. And it's getting better in a sense because I can keep stuff there. And it's just a little crazy with all the social engagements. I guess with my family—I mean my Dad does a good job at saying, "Oh that's excellent! That's wonderful!" But I think for my Mom it means a lot as well especially because there was a part of my graduate career where I didn't have that connection to her. [00:10:21]
And oh yeah. I guess with Jeremy I guess the pressure goes into what should I wear? This has always been sort of an issue. He gets nervous with me being around family. And he wants me to wear — both for my sake and his sake he wants me to be very well dressed. And of course like I show him dresses and like I'm waiting — and I'm just trying to
find —.
We have a wedding to go to at the end of May. It's just like I'm looking at dresses and I can only afford — I can't afford much. So I look at this Chinese site that has dresses they can make in any color. And I get excited. Quite frankly I could've already bought a dress after thinking but no there's some time. [00:11:20]
There are also good cheap new with tags dresses on Ebay that I could've gotten. And it's hard because most girls do go shopping with each other. And they're like "Oh this dress is cute. That one's not." And they help you. But like with sister she likes something totally different than me. And Mom. I'd be happy if my Mom actually talked to me about my Master's before a stupid dress.
It's just hard to be perfect. And it sometimes seems that my boyfriend wants me to be perfect. It's gotten a little bit better. I take a little bit more risk. Like I wanted a flower halo for summertime. And I bought a flower halo. (chuckles) And like even though it's a little much, it makes me happy. And I sort of see that — well I just went ahead. And Jeremy was like, "That's really - ." You know it was cute. But he said, "It might be a little much." And I said, "No it's not too much." [00:12:38]
THERAPIST: What does perfect mean, do you think, to him?
CLIENT: (pause at [00:12:43] to 00:12:47) Well the perfect woman to him — I know this. Is that someone who is warm, kind, gentle and loving. And also intelligent, slightly adventurous and beautiful. But because he's so picky sometimes this very basic definition gets in the way so that it is wear something that looks nice according to his version of nice. And especially when he's in public. He has social anxieties such as myself. (chuckles) And so in order for him to be confident — he has to be in control of things. [00:13:33]
THERAPIST: Hmm. Do you count as one of those things?
CLIENT: Yes! (chuckles) Yes I do. And it's frustrating because — and if I don't do something that wouldn't be his desired result or something he'll get kind of cold. Or tense. Then I get tense. And I get upset. And so ideally I should just not care.
THERAPIST: What do you do that's not perfect?
CLIENT: (pause at [00:14:13] to 00:14:17) Well there used to be a lot more. See that's the thing. It's been a long time since — I've felt like I've done everything right. For a long, long time. [00:14:32]
THERAPIST: That's hard to keep up.
CLIENT: Yeah. That's the scary part. Like yeah. And it's very hard to keep up. I don't want to mess up because I haven't messed up in a long time.
THERAPIST: What happens when you mess up?
CLIENT: Well he just gets pissy. And then I get upset. Actually there was a recent happening where he — an example where I messed up. And how it was just not a good day. He went to the gym in the morning and when he came back he was going to go into his office which he normally does. He goes to the gym on certain days. And I was just over there in the morning. And so I wanted to have breakfast with him. And oh yeah fine. And then I was supposedly — I'm ready by the time he's ready. But I wasn't ready. I was late. [00:15:47]
And he was just standing there and just sort of like looking at me. At least I felt it ever so more. He was just standing there pacing. And it made me anxious. And then like I just finally told him, "You could've helped. Like it's a problem in my family for being late. And I think you've experienced me being late. It's just a problem in my family. At least amongst the women." And I guess it's stereotypically a more women thing. But even so I (inaudible at 00:16:25) "You know you remind me of your father. You just stand there unhappily. And you could've done something to help."
And he was like, "This happens all the time with my Mom." And he gave me an incidence where his Mom is even more pathologically — like an hour late. I'm just like ten minutes. Anyway. And not even on a daily basis. Well not all the time. [00:16:54]
Usually I'm ready in the mornings but — And I guess why I was late is because I was looking up places for us to travel to. Because the night before he suggested— because I was talking about my summer schedule, he was saying, "Oh maybe we should travel." And I mentioned a couple of places but he didn't seem happy. And that made me sort of like, "Oh." And then I was looking up on the Internet later that night. And I was suggesting all these places. And then he just sort of fell asleep. I mean I guess he was tired. It just sort of felt like he was cold.
And then the next day, the next morning while he went to the gym I was looking up more places. And I was just trying to make him happy. And in a sense I got excited. But then that just made me kind of extra anxious because there was someone that wasn't getting happy. And I guess well that was one of the reasons why I was late. [00:17:55]
THERAPIST: So you feel a lot of pressure to make him happy and to do things in a certain way so that he won't get upset?
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: It's hard to be responsible for somebody else's feelings when you're not really in control of them.
CLIENT: Yeah. I mean that's a thing I've felt with my sister is that I'm responsible for whether she's happy. Making her happy. Making sure she's not losing too much weight.
THERAPIST: Do you think they are really asking that of you? Or is that something you're taking on without them asking that? Or do they really expect that of you? [00:18:48]
CLIENT: I don't — that's a good - . (pause at [00:18:55] to 00:19:01) Well with my sister, she's the sort of person that loves the pity party so I think—not that my sister expects it — but she does like it. And Jeremy (pauses at [00:19:16] to 00:19:24) — I know he really likes attention. But I don't know if he necessarily — I mean he likes how I make him happy. And how I do things like make him banana bread. And cookies. But I think I guess I start to see that I'm always trying to be eager and please him. I think that's something that I just naturally expect myself. [00:20:02]
I don't think he expects as much as I do. I mean I think he expects me to be warm and loving and giving. But hyper anxious and always trying to make sure he's happy — I mean I guess that's kind of impossible. Like sometimes people are just going to be tense and sad. And I guess — .
THERAPIST: And you're not always going to be eager and excited? And it's normal for you also sometimes to be tense or sad. And tired. Or disinterested. Those are all normal things for you to feel. Some of the time.
CLIENT: And I guess that's the thing is like I try and hide that from him in a sense because I want — like if I'm really upset. I mean if I'm really upset I can't hide that very well. But if I'm just like mildly bored or tired like I just suck it up. [00:21:07]
But of course I don't like suck it up when I miss dance class or just sort of don't do my work when I'm goofing around on the Internet. It's funny how much I will suck up for just sort of — work hard. I definitely know I can work hard when I want to and I think that pleasing him — or at least what I sort of see. I don't know sometimes it's just exhausting. (pause at [00:21:43] to 00:21:50)
But I think just because I put a lot of pressure on myself. And I have a hard time — like I want to help people. And it's hard when there aren't solutions. And I don't know how to deal with when people are sad. Or I can't tell what they are. [00:22:10]
You know if they're sad I know what to do. You give them a hug. Or you just play something funny for them. But I mean if they're just sort of like tense or emotionally disturbed — it's like my roommate from when I was living with my now ex-boyfriend but she was really anxious. And it just made me really tense. And there was just something about it. Like I can't — I don't know how to deal with other people's tenseness. And (pause at [00:22:47] to 00:22:51) I guess maybe they don't know what to do with it either.
THERAPIST: Do you feel like you get more anxious when someone else is tense too?
CLIENT: Yeah. Yeah it's just very contagious for me. [00:23:04]
THERAPIST: Uh — huh.
CLIENT: And it's funny how sensitive I get to it. Like for instance my current roommate, Carolyn, she's going on this weight loss — she went on this weight loss program. Or is doing a weight loss program. So she's measuring everything and the dishes are always full. But I can see that she's always like really kind of terse. And not as friendly. And I can probably tell it's because she's frustrated or hungry.
THERAPIST: She's probably starving.
CLIENT: Yeah. (laughs) I can tell why she's tense but it's still —.
THERAPIST: It's still hard to sit with and not take it on as your own.
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: To play volleyball with it and push it back rather than catching it. And holding on to it. It's hard.
CLIENT: Yeah. So I find myself — I'll be in my room and if someone is in the kitchen I'll just stay in my room until they're out of the kitchen. Just because —. [00:24:11]
THERAPIST: But that feels uncomfortable too because then you're sort of hiding out in your own house.
CLIENT: (laughs) Yes. I mean I was just —.
THERAPIST: I wonder too if that is especially anxiety provoking for you because it mimics past eating disorder behavior. Watching someone be so careful about measuring food and worrying about amounts of food.
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: I wonder if that feels triggering for you.
CLIENT: Well in a sense. It's kind of like I feel like—I mean she is watching and observing me because she wants to know how to eat lean. And so when the freezer was filled up with lots of frozen vegetables because I said that they were good I was really upset. Because there is barely any room in the fridge for me. [00:25:08]
And it's just like, "Hey this is my thing. This is the one thing — you guys fill up the fridge and the freezer was for my ice cream. And for my frozen veggies." And now like everything falls out on me and it's just almost like saying — I feel like saying, "It's over. Get over it."
Or just — I mean I try. I'm trying to eat what is healthy. Sort of what I see as cheaply healthy. But sometimes I want to go into the freezer and take a bite of ice cream. But I don't want my roommates to see this. So I'll wait until they've all gone to bed and take a little spoonful of ice cream. Then put it back in the freezer. [00:26:05]
THERAPIST: What would happen if they saw? Why is it important for them not to know?
CLIENT: Well it's kind of embarrassing.
THERAPIST: Ice cream is embarrassing?
CLIENT: Well taking one spoonful of ice cream. (laughing) And when I make my ice cream —. Sometimes I — I'm just very embarrassed about how I scoop some ice cream and then sometimes I lick the spoon. Like two scoops of my ice cream and then like a spoonful lick for me. Yeah I guess —.
THERAPIST: What would be a not embarrassing way to have ice cream?
CLIENT: (pause at [00:26:47] to 00:26:51) Grab out a bowl and you just scoop some. And then you put back in the freezer.
THERAPIST: What stops you from doing that? [00:26:59]
CLIENT: Well I gotta take an extra lick. (laughs) Or sometimes if the ice cream has some swirl and I want a bit of the swirl before I put it away. I mean in a sense — like I see Jeremy do this. When he's serving he's snacking on it as he's serving. And I don't think anything of it. It was like "Ooh, I wish I had gotten some of that. Or wish I was serving out stuff. He's getting extra." So I see he does it. And more or less —
THERAPIST: Ah. So maybe it's not a big deal.
CLIENT: Yeah. Yeah I guess. (laughs) Yeah. And it's funny because he'll lick his plate and then—I guess when we first met I licked my plate. But then he said, "No that's not appropriate." Because I was doing it in public. But then I see he does it just at home. And then I did it the other day. [00:28:00]
I guess I feel a lot of pressure from people. I think more pressure ever so from people I don't know so well. And I don't know my roommate so well. Or like sometimes my roommates — I don't feel like talking. And that's another reason I hide out. I just don't want to talk to anyone in the morning because I just woke up.
I guess I'm getting better at just saying, "Okay. I'm going to go eat." But it's just interesting. I guess I never — when you're living with people that you know very well you kind of forget that you're living with another person. Or like they understand you. So they just don't bother. Don't ask. [00:29:05]
THERAPIST: How long have you lived with these roommates?
CLIENT: This is going on maybe my 7<sup>th</sup> month with them. But it's strange because I only see them half the week. So I would stay cut down six months to three months. And I've recently noticed that my room is messy. I think my life is messy right now. I think rather than wanting to clean up my room or clean up my life it just seems so easy to just look at dresses.
THERAPIST: What would make life less messy? [00:29:57]
CLIENT: Well for one I'm going to have to clean up my room and actually make my bed. That hasn't been done in a week and half. And just finish up some of the things that I can do. Finishing up the shopping for Science Week. Finish up my lecture that I have to give on Thursday. And getting my projects all running. It was interesting that today when I was working on my project because normally I have one going in the background and the other one that I'm working and concentrating. And I realized I've been running this one program in the background for so long that I forgot even why I was running it. [00:30:54]
THERAPIST: Mm.
CLIENT: And so it was really nice to sort of sit down and go back and work on the project that I sort of saw. I guess in order to clean up things I just sort of need to go through the tedious labor. And when you're cleaning up — I think I just have a lot of accumulation in my room of stuff. And it just takes some mental power I think that's been used up so much socially that I just feel like —
THERAPIST: Sounds like you've been running pretty dry.
CLIENT: Yeah. (chuckles) Yeah. (pause at [00:31:36] to 00:31:42)
THERAPIST: I did want to check in about hand washing and thoughts.
CLIENT: So hand washing — my hands are, they're pretty - . Well they're dry right here but in terms of hand washing some days it just so happens if I'm doing cleaning and stuff or I've had a sore tummy it's probably around 15. [00:32:07]
But some days like it's really good. Like I've really gotten used to — I can sit there and be rubbing my face or maybe scratching skin off my face and then go do the dishes. Or go make myself something to eat. So I mean in a lot of sense that's actually getting better.
I have been looking at trash cans for some reason recently. I'll just look. Like my eyes just go there. And then just kind of go, "Ugh." And sort of forget about it. I don't know why. I think maybe because like normally I tell my focus never to look at a trash can. That's an active thought. But sometimes my eye just catches the trashcan. I don't know what my eyes or why I'm thinking or why do I even care? Do normal people look at trashcans? Probably not. [00:32:58]
THERAPIST: Probably if they're using them.
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: Normal people.
CLIENT: Uh-huh.
THERAPIST: People who don't have a fear of contamination probably only look at trashcans when they're about to use one.
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: It doesn't mean you're not normal.
CLIENT: (laughs) And so I don't know — I mean I don't start getting fears or wash my hands. I just sort of go, "Ugh."
THERAPIST: You have that gut response but then you're able to move on from it. It doesn't interfere with your day.
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: So that's an important thing to note. The difference between an anxiety or fear that gets in the way and interferes with your day versus an anxiety to the level it's exhibiting right now where you notice and you have that moment of discomfort but you're able to put it aside and move on with your day as planned.
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: So the fact that it's not interfering right now is a pretty good indicator on that. [00:33:56]
CLIENT: Yeah I mean it's really — it's funny because sometimes my boyfriend like after the grocery store. Well all the time at the grocery store. He's like, "Wash your hands." And I'm like, "Why should I wash my hands? This grocery store is probably cleaner." Well his apartment is spotless. We keep it very clean. But you know I'm just like, "Why do you need to wash your hands? You weren't on the subway." Even if you were on the subway, I don't just wash my hands after the subway if I'm just going to make coffee. It just really doesn't matter.
And I'm really happy in that sense because I was it takes up so much more time to think about these things. Like I was on the subway, gotta wash the hands. Or gotta hand sanitize. I mean if like my hands are dry I just put a little bit of lotion. I hope my coffee doesn't taste like lotion and that's the only thing I worry about. (laughs) [00:34:55]
And so in a sense — because I've been thinking about having my anti-anxiety medication—just because I think I'm handling quite a bit than when I started the anxiety medication. And I just get frustrated with having to pick up prescriptions all the time.
THERAPIST: It sounds like the anxiety behaviors are way down. So you can certainly have a consultation first. Don't do it on your own.
CLIENT: No I know.
THERAPIST: But schedule an appointment to get in and talk about it. And see
what —. Certainly it sounds like there is anxiety showing up in other places. Wanting to try to be perfect. That's a high expectation. Perfection is unrealistic. And being worried about not being able to be perfect is an anxiety. It's showing up a little bit different than in an obsessive behavior but there is some anxiety there. [00:36:04]
CLIENT: I know.
THERAPIST: Does that mean that you can't talk about going down on your meds or going off your meds? No. Because there are other ways of working with that anxiety and finding other ways to tolerate it and have it maybe be there but not interfere with life. We're getting closer and closer to when your insurance picks back up. So —.
CLIENT: (chuckles) Yeah.
THERAPIST: I think getting in and talking about it and making some plans — because I know that the medications are interfering with your sexual life and that's important too.
CLIENT: Yeah. Yeah.
THERAPIST: You see (Cerys Fleischman)?
CLIENT: Yeah I do see Cerys.
THERAPIST: So yeah. Just get on the books.
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: I'm sure that she would be really open to talking with you about what are the options. What are the pros and cons? And letting you really be part of an informed decision about what to do. [00:36:52]
CLIENT: Yeah. I mean I think that — I think I'm coming more into terms with. A lot of it was to just really calm down the really bad habits. Like fearing that I had HIV. Or fearing like I touched something in the garbage.
THERAPIST: I think that's significantly improved.
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: And that was the impetus for starting the meds and getting back into therapy. And we've seen some pretty substantial differences in that. So it's something you can definitely go back to her with. And let her know what's there and what's not there. And the benefits and the side effects and what you want to do.
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: Why don't we stop there for today? Schedule a follow up.
CLIENT: Okay. Yes. [00:37:41] [End of Audio]
END TRANSCRIPT
