<font size="4"><b>Chapter II</b></font>

The purpose of this book is not to direct abuse or
slander at any particular race or group of people. It is,
instead, meant to serve as an informative account of the
development of a sick mind; in its active stage, and in its
progress toward a cure. It is an attempt to acquaint the
public with what went wrong and at what point. I am
fully aware of the good fortune that has smiled upon me,
and my heart-felt thanks go out to those responsible for
my cure.


No doubt, I could fill this book with the shocking episodes
that were a major part of my 13 years' experience.
But my purpose, I think, is a greater one.


In view of all the facts concerning admittances to mental
institutions yearly, it is indeed a rarity for one to
venture so deep into the confused and twisted maze of
a psychosis, and survive as I have.


Environmental influences and parental misguidance
run neck to neck as contributors to the mental disorders
that exist in our society. The pitiful part of it is that practically
in all existing cases of mental disorders, the ground-work
for the disorder has been laid for the victim. The
rich, filthy, fertile soil of our society is primed and waiting
for the neurotic or psychotic cultivation of an innocent
seed. In my case, as in many others, these were the existing
facts.


From a life of relative happiness as a child, I regressed
to a state of utter confusionpropelled by a want of satisfaction
of basic, Instinctive drivesinseparable drives.
Drives which are a natural part of the human psyche.

[p. <i>27</i>]

The place of my birth, Youngstown, Ohio, is of little
importance. It is only fitting to mention one's birthplace.
It provides national background, local identification and
citizenry, if nothing else.


When I was very young, my parents moved from Ohio
to Pennsylvania. Ohio had little to do with the shaping
of my future character.


The elements, which were contributors to the eventual
disorder at that early age (thirty-six months), were
parental. From my earliest recollection, I remember that
there was discontentment in our household. There was
a constant struggle on the part of my mother and father
to stay together. It was a struggle somewhat repressed by
my father's abilities to provide.


The marriage, in the beginning, was a union not based
on love, but rather on security. In my opinion, this is one
of the worst conditions under which to have children.


My mother, an energetic, but timid woman, had had
one child by a previous marriage, a marriage which
reached the highest point at a very early age, and ended
in a final separation. From all "projected appearances,"
my mother loved her first husband very much. I use the
term "projected appearances," because to my other relatives,
as well as myself, it was recognized that my
mother showered upon my brother the affection she must
have felt for her first husbandaffection which was responsible
for the development in my brother of a definite
complexan "Oedipus Complex." He lived and died at
home.


At the time, my only interpretation of this affection
was that my mother loved my brother a great deal more
than she loved me. This was not necessarily the case. My
present interpretation is that this was a subconscious reaction

[p. <i>28</i>]

Nevertheless, in my subconscious mind was stored the
vexing nerve-tingling feeling of melancholy. I believe this
to be a proper description of the early feelings I suffered.
Being of a sympathetic nature, and with an inclination to
possess courage, I used to "act out" rather than give
proper vent to these suffered feelings. Failure to give
proper vent to these pent-up emotions at times caused my
head to ache. Just imagine, as an adult, crying for several
minutes over something that has troubled you deeply.
Neurologically speaking, nerve endings are continuously
bathed with produced body chemicals which leave them
exhausted and tingling. These chemicals, also, affect the
brain and the body's cellular system.


The accumulation of these chemicals hinders various
muscles to respond to an emotional emergency. They
cause tissues to swell and create congestion which slows
down vitally needed oxygen from reaching the brain. The
brain cells' failure to receive sufficient amounts of oxygen
in such an emergency causes them to throb in rebellion.


These were some of the feelings I suffered as a child
as a result of emotional stress and strain. Unpleasant experiences
indeed'!


Regardless of my inability to interpret or define them
at that early age, those suffered. emotions left their mark.


From the age of four, until my early mental development
at the age of six, there was the ever-present feeling
of unshared motherly love and family. discord.


As in the case of my mother's projection of love and
affection toward my brother, a result of the love she must

[p. <i>29</i>]

Other than my father's expression of love toward me,
I knew very little about him. He seemed to me to be a
man with a great deal of patience and thinking ability. He
was uneducated, but he never missed his daily pensive
sittings as he smoked his corncob pipe.


At that very early age, I was fully aware of my father's
love for me. When I was undergoing emotional strains, he
was my only consolation. There seemed to have been dissention,
too, concerning my mother's obvious favoritism
toward my brother.


I remember clearly the occurrence of a family separation.
I was about five years old at the time. My mother
kept my older brother, and, of course, my father took me
with him.


My father did his best to be both mother and father
to me, but his efforts were not enough. I missed the
tender care that my mother had so often given me. The
brief period (one year) that I was away from my mother,
I can safely say, was my first real experience with the feeling
of not being wanted.


It seems instinctive on the part of the very young to
want more of what seems to be purposely held from them.
In my caseit was love. This reaction is seemingly evident
in the case of the mother bird, When her attention
is directed away from her young, they pursue her. It is
also seemingly true in the case of the lioness and her cubs.
Man, fowl, or beast, the pattern is the same. Imagine the
sufferings of intellectual beings.


My father took me with him to a coal mining town,
several miles from Pittsburgh. We were living in Pitts-burgh

[p. <i>30</i>]

I dreaded the long hours I used to spend alone in a
dark, poorly lighted room while my father was at work in
the mine. I longed for the rough scrubbings I used to get
as a result of playing in dirt. I missed my big brother tremendously.
"Daddy, let's go home," I used to say. Apprehensions,
fear, and anxiety were surely not mere psychological
experiences. They were affecting the ratio and distribution
of materials of which my body is made and
storing complex material which was later used in an
attempt to solve a complex problem. Resultthe development
of a psychotic. And who, may I ask, is to be held
responsible? Conditions!


It should be plainly understood that the feelings of not
being wanted and the loneliness I later suffered in the institution
were not new to me. I hated the feeling, and I
fought it. It developed in me a deft determination and
certain mannerisms which led to an eventually brutal and
heinous crime.


After the expiration of nearly a year and his inexperienced
attempts to keep me clean, Dad finally gave up,
and decided to return me to my mother.


I remember the event well. I was a month past the
age of five, having celebrated a September 20th birthday
alone with a large box of animal crackers to keep me company
in my quiet quarters. The October night was silent,
clean, and cold. The cold bit at the flesh of my muffle-type
jaws. Phlegm, resulting from a recent attack of bronchial
pneumonia, streamed from my nostrils. Under my
arm, I held a small bundle of clothing. I was alone, sitting

[p. <i>31</i>]

I could not reason clearly the meanings of these
strange events. Mixed emotionspremature mixed emotions!
Love, fear, and anxiety in their infant stages. I knew
that my mother was to come for me. "How long?" I knew
my dad was leaving me. "Who loves me?"


My only feeling of security rested at the top of the
stairs of the dimly-lighted hall. I feared the possible appearance
of some unknown creature. I held the small
bundle of clothing close to me. It gave me confidence, but
not enough. I watched, in silent fear, the dim light that
shone from beneath the door. A momentary obstruction
and it shone again.


"Someone is up there, and they don't know that I am
here." Fear and the need of comfort overwhelmed me. I
began to cry.


My cries were heard from atop the stairs. I remember
vividly the events that followed. The events that followed
have, many times since, supplied me with the necessary
mechanisms for defense that have relieved me of depression
and anxiety. They have also served to support my
"primitive" and "instinctive" love theories.


As I sat, crying at the bottom of the stairs, suffering
the feelings of fear and lack of attention, my brother appeared
in the doorway at the top of the stairs. I will long
remember the tone of compassion that filled his voice. He
kept repeating, "Mommiebaby brother is here.' '


In the minutes that followed, I sensed in my infant
stagecall it what you maythe primitive, instinctive, or
subconscious love my mother must have felt for me. The
sounds that came from her, I now realize, signified pity
and compassion. I was frightened by it and continued to

[p. <i>32</i>]

She lifted me from the dirty, partially splintered stoop,
and held me in her arms. Strange sounds came from her
as she pressed me close. I could feel the warmth of her
tears on my cold cheeks. That was the comfort I sought
the tender love I longed for.


"My baby," she kept repeating. "What has he done to
you? Oh, God! What has he done to my baby? How long
has he been here?"


I had no way of knowingit seemed like an eternity.


The weeks that followed were filled with all the tenderness,
love, and compassion that any child could hope
for. I knew her motherly concern for keeping me clean
for the frequent colds I suffered. I knew her tender embraces,
to make up for having been away from me. What
a wonderful way to feell I was free from tension, anxiety,
and the doubt of love. I knew a mental calm which is the
right of every child.


After the lapse of several love-filled weeks, the stimuli
responsible for the presence in Mother's conscious mind
of her suppressed primitive or instinctive love began to
fade. The realization of what I reminded her of was obsessing
her consciousness and forcing back the true love.
"You look just like your father," or, "You look just like old
man Lane," she would repeat. You seewhen my mother
and father married, he was almost twice her age. She
looked more like his daughter than his wife. That she resented
bitterly.


In my attempt to recal land capture the moods which
surrounded my early Me, I became aware of the strain
that my mother possibly suffered. If one can train one's

[p. <i>33</i>]

Leaving me and running off as he did made more
stressful the task of living for my mother. Her inabilty to
cope with and modify these inner tensions made projection
her only out. It was a situation that arose from a condition
which obligations were improperly met.


I vaguely remember Mother's attempts to get support.
On one of these occasions, I was taken by my mother to
a courthouse in downtown Pittsburgh. Obviously, Mother
had filed suit for non-support. I hadn't seen my father
since the time of our separation. When he entered the
courtroom, I called out to him and began to cry.


As he approached, I could sense, to some extent,
Mother's efforts to control her inner feelings. I can understand
now what she must have been going throughinner
turmoil and added responsibility!


I loved my father dearly; naturally, I tried to meet him
but I was held back by my mother's stern grip. Why?
Again the familiar anguish which all too often replaced
my childhood joys. Self-pity now had become a pleasant
sanctuary.


If, in my early life, by some good fortune, I could
have become the subject of an analyst, he would have concluded
that faulty materials were being used in my making
as an individual. For, even now, the often sufferedthrough
emotion, pity, had begun to affect my facial expression;
it was growing with me, and it was becoming a
definite factor In my scheme of things. If and when my
sensitive feelings were abused, and sensitive they were,
I would find peace and sympathy in my sanctuary of pity.
For, isn't the highest degree of sympathy the sympathy

[p. <i>34</i>]

When my father finally reached me, he handed me a
buffalo nickel (a ritual he rarely missed), and held me in
his arms. I missed him terribly and began immediately
bombarding him with questions:


"When are you coming home, Daddy?"


"Soon, son."


"Are you coming home to stay, Daddy?"


"Maybe, sonmaybe."


Mother stared at us in a strange way. Possibly it was
a contemptible stare. I was conscious of the unfriendly air
between them, but I believe it was this event, together
with their understanding of how badly I wanted them
both, that caused a later reconciliation.


My bruised childhood emotions were now being
soothed by Dad's frequent visits, but without a doubt,
the incident left its mark on both my mother and me.
With mereparable damage. With Mother, it was not
necessarily so. It provided her with added material with
which to support her previous convictions. It was material
which she stored and later used to intensify her methods
of projection.


The reconciliation of my parents was, for me, a happy
occasion. My father kept me with him during most of his
free time. I enjoyed the boast of a father's protection as I
approached the age of six. My mother was my comforter,
and my fathermy protector.


The manner in which he called me "son" instilled in
me an obligatory dedication and a sense of independence.
My strong sense of independence and my dedication to
obligation were, I think, normal attributes, but were intensified
by my pursuit of self-confirmed motherly love.
These two characteristics made the acceptance of defeat,
in later years, almost unbearable.

[p. <i>35</i>]

Who, may I ask, is an authority to say when, in a
growing child's life, a father is needed most? We may all
agree that it is a full-time job, but there are obstacles and
conditions which make this an impossibility.


Probably my father's constant presence during these
seemingly unimportant early years would have modified
certain developing characteristics. Surely, as I will bring
out, there was a dire need for modification.


As later evidence indicated, the period of longing I
suffered as a result of my father's absence seemingly distorted
my sense of reasoning and affected my basic intelligence.
I set for myself, as a result of developing
intensified characteristics, high goals. Goals which were,
to a great extent, mother-motivated.


I wanted my mother to be proud of me. Whatever I
did, I always looked to her for praise. Her failure to do
so caused me despondency. No doubt, timely praise and
my mother's ability to recognize my intense desires would
have helped me to reach the high goals I had set for myself.


Because of family discord, I was well past the schoolstarting age.
I had not as yet attended school. My kindergarten
days were fast approaching.

