TRANSCRIPT OF AUDIO FILE:
______________________________________________________________________________
BEGIN TRANSCRIPT:
(inaudible to [00:00:07)
THERAPIST: Hi. Come on in.
CLIENT: Oh, I brought a check this time.
THERAPIST: Oh, yeah, yeah. Thank you. Come on in.
(paper shuffling, no voices, [00:00:13] to [00:00:45)
CLIENT: Were you okay during the storm?
THERAPIST: I was fine, thank you.
CLIENT: Do you live close by, or—?
THERAPIST: Pretty close by, yeah.
CLIENT: Oh, okay cause I thought maybe you drive a little, so you might not be here on Monday. [00:01:00]
THERAPIST: No. It was fine. I was planning on coming to work.
CLIENT: Oh, okay. Yeah, I feel bad for canceling but it's probably better that I did that cause the train stopped in the afternoon, and I wouldn't have had a way to get back to work, so (laughs) but –
THERAPIST: Sure, it's confusing as to whether, how bad the storm would be.
CLIENT: Yeah, it wasn't so bad here, I guess. Um, but, it's better to be safe, I guess. (laughs) (pause for .02 seconds) Let's see, I didn't take down notes from last time—I forgot. I should remember but this week's been a little busy for me. So, um, let's see (pause for .02 seconds) so, like, I'd like to talk about a couple of things that were on my mind. [00:02:08]
Um, (sighs) I think last week I just had this moment of anxiety about, just like money, you know. Um, I thought it didn't make a lot of practical sense that I was living in the Square (ph) and paying rent there, when I'm spending like two or three nights at David's place. So (pause for .02 seconds) yeah, I got really panicky and I was like, "Oh, maybe I should give it up," and then I thought—I failed as, you know, trying to live on my own and trying to be independent and an adult, and if I give up that place, it will mean that I failed. (laughs) [00:03:06]
THERAPIST: Um hmm.
CLIENT: Um, I guess that was just brought home by this: (ph) so I was working, um, I was writing and I was—I just had this idea that David will come back and we will cook dinner together, or something. And I texted him and he's like, "Oh, yeah, I'm on my way to a faculty dinner. I won't be back until like 8:30," and I was like, "What?" (laughs) I mean, he didn't know that I was, I had this plan. I didn't communicate that to him.
I just wanted it to be—not a surprise for him—just we just, not talk about it and just do it. And like (pause for .02 seconds) and this is I guess, a problem or an issue or something. We don't have the best communication. I don't know if you've observed this, but people observe and we've noticed, but like, it's probably me and my way of communicating. [00:04:09]
I don't like to communicate (laughs) I just want people to make guesses (laughs) about what I want, and just do it, you know? It makes me very sad when I have to tell them: this is what I want. (laughs) I don't know why. But anyway, this—I drew this picture—this is so weird like, once I picture something in my head (pause for .02 seconds) it's so, it's disappointing that it doesn't happen that way. 
So, he said he was going to be out, so I was really disappointed—for no reason, you know. I mean, so I just took a long walk, and was feeling very, very (pause for .03 seconds) anxious at that moment. Just really crying, and feeling like, feeling abandoned and all that. [00:05:06]
Um (pause for .03 seconds) yeah. (pause for .02 seconds) so, and then I was like, "What am I doing in the Square? I'm spending so much money and I don't even live there. Oh God—what a failure. I couldn't even do this thing of living by myself. And I'm so dependent on people, and David, and you know, like what the hell?" you know. (sighs)
And then another night, a new friend of mine—she's in the program with me—and she said, she said—I like her and I said, "You know, let's hang out one night," and she said, "Yeah, okay, we can go to this bar." And then, you know—I don't go to bars. I've never done this sort of thing with a female friend and so, again, I picture—I have this picture in my head. I'm sitting—I don't know what—and that's all. I made it all up, but—[00:06:10]
So the night of—and like it's evening, and my mom and David went shopping and I was—and they're like, "So, what are we doing?" and I didn't even give them an answer right away cause I said, "I don't know. I had to check with my friend," cause my first priority was to hang out with her. (laughs) My first priority was not my family. (laughs) So I put them on hold and was texting her, you know, "What are you doing? So, are we going to go?" and she languidly, leisurely responds—while I'm furiously walking around on my walks, you know—she's like, "Oh, yeah, I have a headache, or a sore throat. I don't feel like it."
And I just got so pissed. I just wanted to throw my phone away and just scream and tell her, "You're not worth it!" (pause for .03 seconds) But two hours later, I did calm down. (laughs) Almost to the point, but not quite, of sending her a text and saying, "Oh, feel better." I was so mad. I was so mad. [00:07:21]
THERAPIST: Because she promised you something that she took away?
CLIENT: Yeah. I was just like, I mean I see the other side now, but if you give me just two seconds I will be right back in that zone feeling really hurt and mad and betrayed and left and abandoned. (laughs) I don't know why—I just felt so anxious. And so lonely, and like, "Why can't I have this just one thing? You know, people probably do this every other night, or whenever they want to. Why don't I have that? Why can't I inspire—(pause for .02 seconds) I don't know—like friendship in people?" [00:08:04]
I can't (pause for .02 seconds) or, yeah, she promised something then she took it away. Yeah, I was like really to the point of tears. (sighs) (whispers) I don't know. But then, like, a couple of days later she showed up on-line. She was like, "Oh –" she's in love with this guy and they're just starting out, so she's easily distracted. So I get it now, but at that moment I was like, "Why are you doing that to me?", you know? (pause for .11 seconds)
I was trying to calm myself down and I was walking—you know the bridge, the longest one across? I was walking on that bridge and I just stopped and it was such a pretty sight. The weekend was really nice, right? before the storm came—and I was trying to calm myself. And I saw the moon on the river just breaking into tiny little diamonds or whatever, um, and I felt good, and then suddenly I just felt so sad. [00:09:32]
I saw myself as a child looking out the window in my hometown. Um, my parents—we moved from this northern city for three years, then we came to the U.S. Um, and my parents sent me to live with my father's mother in a different part of the city, and I would just be by myself in that room and look out the window a lot. I think I was like 13 or something at that time. [00:10:12]
THERAPIST: So everyone was in one place, but you were living with a different family member?
CLIENT: Yeah, I was living with my dad's mom and father.
THERAPIST: Why?
CLIENT: I don't know. They just sent me there. They were like, "Oh, you need –" I don't know. I'll have to ask my mom if there was something going on between them. Those were tense years—well, you know, all of my childhood was, you could say. (laughs) It was all crappy because of my dad. But, um (pause for .02 seconds) he, um (pause for .02 seconds) I guess they told me at the time that I needed exposure to other members of the family, which is probably true cause I was either with my mom or—when my dad came back—with my mom and dad. [00:10:58]
We didn't really get—cause like, the rest of the family didn't really like us. My mom's family didn't like us because of my dad, and then my dad's family wasn't here. Then we came to the same city and we didn't really interact—we interacted a little bit with his family but not much. And so I did not, I do not and I did not like my paternal grandparents at all (laughs) (pause for .02 seconds) cause of the stories my mom already told me about them. Like, she said, like, um, "My mother-in-law was absolutely horrible to her," and when she had just got married and um, you know, they really just kind of tortured her and criticized everything she did. (pause for .03 seconds)
I was born right on, like right after nine months of their marriage, and even before I was born there was doubts (sic)—whether I was, you know, my father's child. So they questioned her, and again I'm picturing this pregnant woman far away from her family, you know, it's a big distance. And my mom was helpless over there, although I picture her in those years as being very strong and educated and everything. [00:12:29]
But you know, her mother-in-law haranguing her, "What are you—you're not carrying my son's child, are you?" and she actually had to, she confessed that she had been—I don't know. So her sister's husband, like, they had sex but I think it was a rape. The way that she says, "He just overpowered me and I couldn't say no." I have no idea what went on in that scenario, but I would say, you know, a 25 year-old woman in the 1970's in India—I don't think she was—it was consensual, you know?
So that's a whole other, you know, chapter in my mom's life that I haven't started to get angry over—you know, if I allow myself to get angry. But anyways, so you know, she was not a virgin, or whatever, I guess. [00:13:34] 
THERAPIST: But this happened before –
CLIENT: The marriage, yeah. 
THERAPIST: But well before? Not like, a week before?
CLIENT: I don't know, yeah.
THERAPIST: Cause you were saying that—cause you were putting the connection between your mom being accused of you not being your dad's child and her having sex with someone else—that's why I'm –
CLIENT: Yeah, no, there is not a connection.
THERAPIST: There wasn't a connection.
CLIENT: But still she shouldn't have—she did say that, "Yes. I was not a virgin before marrying," but she didn't say—cause that must have happened several months ago. Anyways, so they chucked her out and so—or she just leaves of her own accord. This is ridiculous and this is not just like: hey, you don't cook well, or you put too much salt, or this thing wasn't done well. This is like huge. So she just leaves. [00:14:26]
And, you know, and my dad—I don't know—comes or what-not, but he doesn't see me. He doesn't see me until I'm like 5 or 6. He wasn't around. He wasn't even in India when they were fighting like this. So most of my mom's pregnancy with me, and then the later years, he was elsewhere.
THERAPIST: What was he doing there?
CLIENT: He was a scientist. He was—that was the only time of his life (laughs) that he actually made any money, and you know, (whispers) wasn't over here goofing off. (ph)
Um, so all these stories she told me of my grandma and I just absolutely did not like her. And I did not like her when I was living with her, as a 13 year-old, although now I see I can appreciate some of her strengths, you know? if I try to look at her neutrally. [00:15:27]
But, you know, at that time I decided (laughs) I was very trapped (ph) you know? But also, also a little hopeful cause I was a child, and it was this beautiful, massive city that all these things going on outside my window (sic). But I don't know—again, I was just watching the river and I just felt like I was back there, and I felt sad for myself.
I felt (pause for .02 seconds) you know, why wasn't—why didn't my parents love me? I don't know where that came from but that phrase, that sentiment came to me this weekend (laughs) and I felt like—you know it's okay to live with other relatives, but why was I sent off like that. [00:16:25]
You know, why couldn't I have—why couldn't I have interacted with my cousins? Why wasn't there happiness, you know? Why wasn't there, like, I don't know. Like beauty in life and, you know like, nice things. Not nice things as in expensive things, but just (pause for .03 seconds) just like positivity (sic), and stories and (pause for .02 seconds) jokes (laughs). Yeah. Almost like—(pause for .04 seconds) [00:17:15]
THERAPIST: Do you come up with any answers as to why not?
CLIENT: As to why –
THERAPIST: You said: 'why wasn't there?' 
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: And so I'm wondering if you come up with answers to 'why wasn't there?'
CLIENT: Well, my parents were going through (coughs) you know, ridiculous things. My dad had married again (laughs) so when he came back and everyone was gone, his mom got him married. And that one turned out to be—his second wife turned out to be really awful. 
THERAPIST: Could you have multiple wives in India?
CLIENT: Um hmm (laughs) well, only if you give good words to Islam. (ph)
THERAPIST: So was he legally—I'm confused.
CLIENT: Yeah, no. It was illegal. [00:17:59]
THERAPIST: I see.
CLIENT: Yeah. And my mom now thinks that the reason he came back was just so she could save him from—like so she could divorce him or something, cause the second wife was like, "I'm going to take you to court. This is illegal. I'm your second wife," and, "This is not allowed."
And I don't know—I was a child. But there was this lawyer who started hanging out with us when I was like 11 or 12, and so he was in a lot of legal trouble because of this. And my mom had to just, you know, quietly stand by him, (pause for .03 seconds) while he also made her crazy by bragging to her brothers here that, "Oh, you know, I threaten them if they don't, like, send you tickets to come to the U.S. right now."
A whole lot of mess so I can understand that there wasn't time for, you know, lighter things. [00:19:08]
THERAPIST: What about the river—(inaudible at 00:19:15] due to traffic noise)—
CLIENT: I have no idea. (laughs) I have no idea. I don't know. (pause for .05 seconds) That's was completely sub-conscious. I wasn't really consciously connecting the dots or anything. Just (sighs) why do you think –
THERAPIST: I don't know. I actually don't understand. I thought that you had in mind a more specific connection; that's why I was asking. [00:19:53]
CLIENT: No, I didn't. (pause for .33 seconds) Yeah, I mean I understand where, what they were going through but that doesn't mean that I don't—I'm not resentful if—you know—if I feel like cheated out of a nice time (laughs). (pause for .09 seconds) It's like I'm trying not—I don't know. (pause for .18 seconds) 
Like my new friend, she apparently—her family—has lots of vineyards back home, and she's writing about them in her story. She was showing me pictures and she just had this, you know, very nostalgic look on her face, like "Oh, I wish—I want to go back there." And it's—I liked seeing that. I was happy that she was sharing that with me, but then I felt, felt resentful. (laughs) Like, I have nothing like that, you know? I have no (pause for .02 seconds) no beautiful past that I can—it's in my head maybe, you know. [00:22:01]
And I think partly that's the reason why I want to write, um, this, because there is nothing concrete in India—in any part of India, you know. So those pages will be the something concrete (laughs), you know? That I can go back to if anyone wanted to. (pause for .03 seconds). Yeah, I don't have a vineyard; I don't have (pause for .02 seconds) you know, a street. I didn't go back to the same—I didn't go back to my childhood home because the last time I went there a couple of years ago, the community there was very suspicious. It was like, "Who are you? Why are you here? What are you doing looking at that house like that?" you know? (laughs) So, this time I didn't go. [00:23:03]
(pause for .24 seconds) (sighs) And it makes me sad but (pause for .04 seconds) I guess I need to get to a point where it just makes me sad and not, you know, suicidal or (laughs) like really just to the point of—that's it, there is nothing. There's nothing in the present; there's nothing in the past. So in my world (ph), there should be nothing in the future, you know.
THERAPIST: Hmm.
CLIENT: I don't want to get too—I'm not sure. Sometimes I don't know if I don't want to get to that point. But I think maybe if I'm slightly happier I'd say, yeah maybe it's best not to get to that point. [00:24:05]
(pause for .10 seconds) But like other people have it so much worse, you know? People are homeless, and people actually don't have limbs.
THERAPIST: Does that make you feel better?
CLIENT: It's supposed to (laughs) but no, you know, we always compare ourselves to those who have more. (laughs) (pause for .47 seconds) Sometimes I think that I just have not forgiven my parents for all that mess. I don't know if I ever will or if I ever will want to forgive them. (pause for .09 seconds)
Is that—I know you don't like the question—is that normal? (laughs)
THERAPIST: Do I not like it? Do I not like that question? [00:26:02]
CLIENT: (laughs) Yeah.
THERAPIST: Really? It's just a personal dislike on my part?
CLIENT: No, no. I was thinking about it—I didn't spend too much time thinking about it, but I feel I know what you're trying to get me to understand is that I should, again, have my own standards. I should be generous enough to myself that (pause for .02 seconds) I don't have to constantly question if my behavior is normal or not. What's right for me is right for me, you know? I don't know—maybe that's what you're trying—
THERAPIST: I hadn't—probably. Yeah, I hadn't even taken that leap. I really like that interpretation of it.
CLIENT: (laughs)
THERAPIST: I really do. 
CLIENT: What's your –
THERAPIST: Well, I guess if I think about it that probably is true. There's an important piece there. I think before that I even just think: well, what does that mean to you. Like even—is it comforting to compare yourself to someone, you know, quote-unquote normal. Is it demoralizing? Even just: where does that question come from? What does it make you feel like? 
So it's more open-ended when I ask you that. I hope I don't communicate that I don't like that, but I like your interpretation, cause I think maybe that's part of it too. When you talk about sort of embracing what your experience is, rather than having to keep an eye on what everyone else's is. [00:27:26]
CLIENT: Well, I see that as me yet again leaning (laughs) on other people, and not –just not having that backbone, that pillar, within myself. So, then I feel like. "Oh, this is way too much." I feel like a baby when I say this but I'm being asked to do everything on my own here. (laughs) 
But I should stop being a baby and, because I can (pause for .02 seconds) one by one, you know, I could do these things. [00:28:04]
THERAPIST: I don't know if you have to be a baby to feel at times that you don't want to have to do everything on your own.
CLIENT: (laughs) 
THERAPIST: I'm not sure a baby's the only people-developmental stage (ph) that feels that way.
CLIENT: I feel like a baby though.
THERAPIST: I know you do.
CLIENT: I want to be coddled and loved and (laughs) just taken around and like tossed in the air and then get caught in strong arms, and so (laughs) pathetic.
THERAPIST: Really? It sounds so nice.
CLIENT: (laughs) It does sound way too nice. 
THERAPIST: What does that mean: too nice? [00:28:47]
CLIENT: Well you have to hit the ground and then you have to scrape your knee, and you have to go through that developmental (pause for .02 seconds) process, you know: where you become a toddler and break your teeth, and you break your knee, and then, la la la. Here you are—now, an adult. (laughs) (pause for .20 seconds)
I guess, you know, babies have strong parents who (pause for .03 seconds) who are attentive, you know. But I feel like maybe I didn't (pause for .02 seconds) like now, I don't—when I was a baby. (pause for .17 seconds)
But it just makes me—I mean, I'm aware that I do this often—that I'll be (pause for .03 seconds) walking around in the city and I'll suddenly think of my childhood in India or something like that. And then catch myself at certain moments, you know—this was happening and why did it happen this way? and again, I'm going to say it this way—no, no don't say it. (laughs)
I'm sure other people do it too, where—but I just feel like, I catch myself doing that a lot: going back to a certain moment of my childhood and wanting to change the scene—like dismantle it. [00:31:02]
THERAPIST: Wanting to change the scene of your childhood or the scene of the moment?
CLIENT: My childhood.
THERAPIST: I see.
CLIENT: Yeah. (pause for .06 seconds)
THERAPIST: Do you have particular thoughts about what you'd like the scene to change into, or just that you'd like to change it?
CLIENT: It's funny. I feel (pause for .04 seconds) I used to feel a lot of pride at having (pause .02 seconds) withstood stuff like that—I don't know if that's the right word or if I'm being accurate. But, you know, when I was standing by the window in Bombay I felt (pause for .02 seconds)—I mean, every time I've thought about that moment, that I felt strong and proud that my grandma wasn't coddling me like I hear a lot of my friend's grandmas doing. [00:32:14]
You know, like when David's mom says, "Oh, he was my baby—a beloved baby," and you know, "Everyone just wanted to hold him and hug him," and you know, and I'm just like rolling my eyes and whatever. And before I met David and all (ph), I would be like, "Yeah. That was harsh. That was, like –" you know, compared to a walk in the garden, my—that moment was like standing in the desert.
But I had me; I was strong; I knew myself. And I felt okay about that. But now I feel like—no, I wish (pause for .04 seconds) I don't know—I wish my grandma was, you know (pause for .03 seconds) you know, that woman. Maybe she was calling me to have some (pause for .02 seconds) some milk, something sweet, instead of the bitters, the (inaudible at 00:33:24) that she forced down my throat. (laughs) You know, whatever. 
I wish my parents were on the phone, you know, calling me. I wish my cousins were just coming over, playing or something. (laughs) That's how I feel like I would like to change that, some part. (pause for .03 seconds) It's weird, like earlier I was proud of that moment, but now I feel like—no, it's a girl who's had a sad childhood and she's sad. (laughs) You know, there's nothing good about that, and it shouldn't have been that way. There should've been people in that scene, and food, and a lot of noise, and stories being told, and—you know? (laughs)
(pause for .07 seconds) I'm confused because I don't know now what I want. I don't know if I should feel, continue to feel proud of that moment, or start to feel that that was lacking in (pause for .02 seconds) essential things, (whispers) you know. [00:35:04]
Basically I don't know if I want to be sad or be happy. (laughs) I'm okay being sad (pause for .20 seconds)
THERAPIST: What does being happy mean?
CLIENT: I have no idea. I mean, this sounds so maudlin like—ah! (laughs) But (pause for .02 seconds) I don't know. What do you think being happy means?
THERAPIST: I think it means different things to different people.
CLIENT: Yeah. For me, though—would you know? [00:36:00]
THERAPIST: Would it be helpful if I did?
CLIENT: Yeah. (laughs) Right, cause I don't know. (pause for .10 seconds)
THERAPIST: I think it would mean being very engaged in your writing –
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: and feeling very joyful about it, even if at times you're frustrated or, you know, not like you're just joyful all the time—but really engaged with it. That would—I'm not sure if this is what it means to be happy or what would make you happy, or maybe both. I think if you felt more at peace with your mother and feel more comfortable about being an adult, and being comfortable being sad about having to be an adult, but also feeling like it's a good thing too. 
Feeling less responsible for—especially your mother—maybe for David, feeling less—feeling okay being dependant but being less pathetically dependant. I'm not saying you're pathetically dependant but you feel that way. [00:37:05]
CLIENT: Yeah, yeah.
THERAPIST: I think these are some things that could mean happiness to you.
CLIENT: Yeah, you're right. (laughs) Um, I would say, yeah—all—yeah you said much more than I could've been able to articulate right now, but I would definitely say engaged. That is like a keen measure for me: if I'm not paying attention; if I'm not, like, attentive, like, um, withdrawn—that for me is bad. That to me is like, I'm not—I'm sad. My goal is to be engaged and like curious and having a few cylinders firing at the same time, you know? [00:37:59]
Thinking and taking stuff in, and like being witty, being a little facetious but being—yeah, interesting and interested. So (pause for .02 seconds) definitely that to me is happiness. (pause for .03 seconds) I don't know—I want to say that, like, every time the word happy comes into my head, I think of Orney and I wonder—if I only had a few more months with him I would have known what happiness is to him. I'm very, very curious. Maybe I already—if I think about it maybe I know what it means to him. 
Cause I feel like David's idea of happiness—and it doesn't look like happiness to me—it's just like contentment actually. It's very like this—it's very cerebral. But Orney was not cerebral. I wonder what it looks like. (pause for .10 seconds) (sighs)
THERAPIST: When I think of cerebral, I think of ideas—like the idea of happiness, versus the experience of it.
CLIENT: Yeah. (pause for .13 seconds) Yeah, but (pause for .02 seconds) I feel like David is all and all cerebral in a sense that he has ideas. I mean, he's content and he's happy and he's probably feeling it, but his expressing of it is not as loud or vocal or you know, motorized (laughs) as mine might be. [00:40:07]
Like, I actually dance. (laughs) I put on very loud, you know, techno music and I dance. I might not be happy while doing it—I might just be doing it for exercise or for, you know, whatever. But that to me is like a physical show of something; happiness or sadness or whatever. But he's not like that, and a lot of people are not like that. I feel that they don't just dance, but I do, and I wonder if that is—if I should take that seriously as you know as in he and I are very different. (laughs) 
If I can articulate my feelings via that medium and he absolutely does not do that, it must mean (whispers) we're very different. Maybe that was the point of (pause for .48 seconds) –
Um, I'm curious about (pause for .02 seconds) wanting to change my (pause for .02 seconds) childhood. I don't know—maybe I should—maybe it's normal. Maybe there's nothing there worth thinking about, but I was just struck that, you know, that I wanted to change it whereas I haven't felt like changing it at all until now.
THERAPIST: Hmm.
CLIENT: (whispers) I'll have to think about that. (pause for .05 seconds) Is that—that's not—is that significant do you think, or—?
THERAPIST: I think if something keeps coming up it's significant. Just like in a novel, you know, things that seem sort of insignificant—a character that appears or a word (ph) or something—if it appears, and especially if it appears more than once, it's probably significant, even if in and of itself it's not clear. [00:43:02]
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: Seems like if the issue of childhood in general comes up, and memories, and changing—that seems significant in itself, (laughs) but –
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: the fact that it keeps re-emerging seems like good proof. (pause for .02 seconds) What do you think?
CLIENT: Yeah, I mean, it's new to me and I'm so close to it so I can't judge it properly. But if feels new, you know? And this feeling again of the moment that, until now I interpreted as me feeling strong and coming of age or whatever, felt—now I feel is sad, and devoid of that power that I initially inscribed to it. That feels new. [00:43:57]
THERAPIST: (pause for .13 seconds) Well, one possible scenario is that you can feel power that you survived, but sad that you had circumstances that you had to survive.
CLIENT: Yeah, maybe. (pause for .04 seconds) Or, or—and here's the crazy part (laughs)—maybe I don't feel power because I see myself failing and falling. I've survived until now, but you know, I still feel very dubious about whether this was a survival or not, you know? Being sad so much, having been sad so much, I feel like, "This is not survival, you know? What the hell?" you know? (laughs) [00:44:57]
THERAPIST: Hmm. (pause for .07 seconds) We are going to need to stop for today.
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: I do have one time tomorrow and one time Friday. I'm happy to see you again if you'd like, or if you'd like to wait 'til Monday, that's fine too.
CLIENT: Um, Friday—should I just look at the e-mail?
THERAPIST: Oh, I don't know if I gave you a Friday option. I think what I'll have on Friday is like, um, a 10:30 on Friday—I don't know if that's—but do you want to just let me know?
CLIENT: Hmm.
THERAPIST: I don't know if I included that, but if you could—if you do want that, if you could let me know today that would be great.
CLIENT: Okay, sure.
THERAPIST: Okay?
CLIENT: Let me do that.
THERAPIST: Okay, we can—we didn't—we'll figure out the insurance. I didn't get to your question, but the bottom line is the most you'll be paying is $10.00.
CLIENT: Okay. Yeah, I mean, I have the letter but it doesn't make sense.
THERAPIST: And I'll explain cause you had questions I realize I didn't explain it well. I'll explain it next time, but the most you'll be paying is $10.00 a session.
CLIENT: Okay.
THERAPIST: Okay? 
CLIENT: Thank you.
THERAPIST: Okay. Take care. Bye bye. [00:46:06]
(paper shuffling, office noises, no voices until [00:48:50)
END TRANSCRIPT
