TRANSCRIPT OF AUDIO FILE:
______________________________________________________________________________
BEGIN TRANSCRIPT:
CLIENT: Hi. How are you?
THERAPIST: I'm okay.
(pause from [00:00:08] to [00:00:31)
CLIENT: I'm nervous because Jeremy (pause for .04 seconds) might lose his job, quit his job, make it a better job for himself; (pause for .04 seconds) I think those are the only options today.
THERAPIST: Wow.
CLIENT: I know. He is going to talk to his boss about how he's been miserable and the part of his job that he was specifically hired for which is analysis of the structural MRIs in this software 
THERAPIST: Um hmm. [00:01:23]
CLIENT: which is not designed to deal with, um, brain scans of such poor quality. These are 1T and 1.5T scans from the late '90s and early 2000s that the framing Emhart (ph) study need to—as their baseline for more recent scans. 
THERAPIST: Um hmm.
CLIENT: So this job is totally bad for Jeremy but he's totally qualified to do it so he took it.
THERAPIST: Um hmm. [00:02:00]
CLIENT: Anyways, it's been about 11 months of -
THERAPIST: Why is it totally bad for him? Because it, sort of—I mean there's this inherent problem where he's supposed to be analyzing the scans but the scans aren't good enough quality for the software that is supposed to analyze them, or is there some other reason?
CLIENT: Yeah, so there's like three categories: the job sucks, and everyone knew that when they hired him. Like the guy who wrote, the guy who wrote the software was like, "This is going to be hell. You shouldn't do this for more than fifty percent of your time in this job." So the other fifty percent, Jeremy has enjoyed.
So that's that. Jeremy is very—he's a perfectionist. He withdraws under stress and doesn't ask for help. He is extremely avoidant of tasks and feelings that are bad, like feel bad. So these brain scans are so frustrating. [00:03:14]
He took me through the process on Sunday. And it's just like—if the task is to figure out what's white matter and what's grey matter—and the software is supposed to do that automatically—and you see the brain, and the signal-to-noise ratio is so poor that there's no grey matter, and it's just like white matter and then nothing. 
Um, the grey matter measurement is supposed to inform all these other things, but then it just becomes—like you have to be confident and ruthless about making calls to throw out data, and you have to be very persistent and speak with all sorts of people and sort of, (pause for .05 seconds) be trying things to make it work. [00:04:16]
I see this task and I think, like, as a graduate student who is much more invested in something like this, I would—it would still be brutal to go through these scans.
THERAPIST: Um hmm. I feel like even if this was your own dissertation data -
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: that you were having to deal with it would still drive you nuts.
CLIENT: Yeah. And you would figure out some way to minimize the time you spent on it. But anyways, so this has been a long-standing—
THERAPIST: Yeah.
CLIENT: pattern for Jeremy for about ten years. It's just manifesting itself in, um, in this particular part of his job, but it's also like he's so afraid of (pause for .03 seconds) not having a good job, and he's so afraid of not having steady income, and he cannot—he can't even, he's not even capable of thinking (pause for .03 seconds) about positive steps he could take if he were to leave this job. [00:05:37]
The conversation is like, "You could get a much lower-stress job and explore your music and figure out if you want to apply somewhere else, which is something he had mentioned. I don't know—I don't know what lower stress jobs there are out there. 
You start figuring out that like, working in a library would be really good for him—he thinks that. And then right away, he's like, "Those are impossible to get. I could never get a library job." And it's like, "What is this based on? I don't recall you ever being rejected from a library job?" [00:06:20]
So on and on it goes with every idea that I, um, (pause for .03 seconds) yeah, so he's stuck but I'm so excited for him if he is able to summon the courage to come clean with his boss today—who's like completely missing from the picture. She doesn't really know about any of this.
THERAPIST: Oh.
CLIENT: And Jeremy has not really done much in the 11 months in this part of the job and he feels so bad, and has been like self-flogging in various ways for the whole time. [00:07:06]
THERAPIST: (pause from [00:07:07] to {00:07:23) So you're also pretty worked up about what's going to happen to him today.
CLIENT: Yeah. I think I'm pretty sure it's going to be fine. Like I, (pause for .03 seconds) I think it's just going to be fine. Whatever happens, it can't be worse than it is now. But I'm worked up about (pause for .03 seconds) his process—it's so excruciatingly painful for him. (pause for .05 seconds)
He says, like he gets to his office and he's sick to his stomach with anxiety. And he's so—the feeling is so bad so I don't blame him for avoiding it. But then spending seven hours reading New York Times, following that feeling for months and months and months, it's like (pause for .03 seconds) I just feel for him.
I used to be very, very angry about this pattern because it was much closer to me in college, (pause for .03 seconds) um, where like I would show up to his room and he wouldn't have slept all night and he would have been needing to hand in problems set two weeks ago and this is the final final final date. [00:09:02]
And he stayed up all night because (pause for .04 seconds) for all these reasons. Like: he thought he needed to be working extra hard; he wasn't making any progress so he knew to spend more time on it; he—but then do you, like, show up at 8:00 in the morning and he's playing a game, or staring at a blank screen. (pause for .03 seconds)
And I didn't have much understanding of this process for a long time and asked the obvious questions like, (pause for .04 seconds) like, "Why don't you get help? Why don't you tell the professor that you're, like, suffering and agonizing? And it's not that you're not trying." And he'll say like, "But I'm not trying. I haven't tried at all. I haven't done anything." [00:10:09]
And that's very hurtful to hear because (pause for .03 seconds) when someone's suffering that much there's some effort there—
THERAPIST: Right.
CLIENT: it's just not being directed in the way that you wanted it to.
THERAPIST: If he really didn't care and really wasn't trying, he wouldn't be suffering so.
CLIENT: No. He would've slept, and gone and played music. There are plenty of people in college who don't care, and who just do what they want to do, but Jeremy is very committed. (pause for .05 seconds) So I guess I'm a little bit (pause for .04 seconds) I feel some urgency (pause for .03 seconds) because maybe I've sort of been waiting for this to happen -
THERAPIST: Um hmm. [00:11:09]
CLIENT: and sort of pleased that it's here because I see it as an opportunity for things to get better. 
THERAPIST: Um hmm.
CLIENT: But I'm also nervous about our own journey together—getting through this, (pause for .06 seconds) because he really doesn't want to lose his job. It would one thing if he were like," I'm done with this. This is so bad for me. I need to do something else. I'm just going to go out there and find something."
Instead he's like, "I can't work at a menial job. I make $45,000 a year. This is a really skilled, good job. Why am I leaving it?" [00:12:04]
And I'm also not particularly economically conservative and he really is. I think he's nervous that I'm not going to be able to make all of the lifestyle changes that I'm would need to make if he truly weren't working at present. 
And I'm nervous about that too, but I know that I will make those changes. I'd much rather be suffering because we don't have Netflix than to see him -
THERAPIST: Dealing with it.
CLIENT: Yeah. (pause for .05 seconds) Right, so the part about our journey through this is like—the finances is like actually not concerning me very much, probably because I don't think too much about them. But what's concerning me is like Jeremy being at home all day, being like, "I can never get a library job. I'm not gonna—I'm not qualified for this production internship." [00:13:25]
And starting to look again for science jobs—that's his, he's coming on his fifth year of working at science jobs cause it's so tempting: like he went to a great school; he majored in Neuroscience; he did very well on the things that he did, and failed on the things that he didn't do. And so there's this odd (pause for .06 seconds) yeah, so you could interpret it as—if you wanted to see the good things, there were a lot of good things. [00:14:08]
THERAPIST: That's very bimodal. 
CLIENT: Yes. So he's worked now for four years in this job and and (pause for .06 seconds), and it's going to be so hard for him to turn the other way.
(sound of someone sneezing)
CLIENT: Bless you.
THERAPIST: Excuse me. You mean away from something science-y, like quote high-power.
CLIENT: Yeah. (pause for .11 seconds) and I can't will him to do anything. [00:15:10]
THERAPIST: Yeah. I guess I'm imagining that, seeing him suffer this way and be himself so sort of helpless and being so helpless yourself to do too much about it, is part of what makes it so difficult. 
CLIENT: Um hmm.
THERAPIST: And it feels, at least today, like okay, at least something could happen.
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: (pause for .04 seconds) Even if there's short-term pain associated with that, at least he could be different -
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: and hopefully better. [00:16:00]
CLIENT: (pause for .05 seconds) Yep. His therapist, who he's being seeing for two months, was gone last week, and last week is when most of the—so this, sort of, crisis materialized because someone finally asked him for some of his data after 11 months.
And he's known—I think he's surprised that it's taken so long for this to come to the surface. But she was gone last week and I feel (pause for .02 seconds) annoyed about that.
THERAPIST: Who does he see?
CLIENT: Um (pause for .03) [inaudible] (pause for .07 seconds) um, but it's not her job to do anything. (pause for .05 seconds) But she is a very privileged person. She cures a lot of stuff that I don't think anyone here -
THERAPIST: I'm sorry; I'm confused—like what? [00:17:22] 
CLIENT: (laughs) Um, I was saying that she isn't—like it's not her job to like be there mitigating these conflicts with Jeremy or for Jeremy. Just because she was gone last week, doesn't mean that this happened any different—like the events played out any differently than they would have.
THERAPIST: Right.
CLIENT: But then I was also realizing that like, "Well, Jeremy shares a lot with her that—like she's privileged in the amount, in what she knows and how much he shares with her." And actually that could have been very useful. [00:18:12]
And still is. It's not like this is a one-time thing.
THERAPIST: Right.
CLIENT: But if he loses his job, he doesn't have health insurance.
THERAPIST: Right.
CLIENT: So I sense some urgency in the, like, speeding up, or in getting the most out of therapy while he has it. That is my getting-the-most-out-of-things tendency. He does not feel this way. He's like, "Ah, she just told me I was punishing myself."
THERAPIST: Hmm.
CLIENT: Like, yeah. (laughs)
THERAPIST: (laughs)
CLIENT: (laughs) That's the point. [00:19:06]
(pause from [00:19:07] to [00:19:49)
THERAPIST: It's pretty hard to sit by, huh?
CLIENT: Yeah. (pause for .04 seconds) It's so hard. (pause for .06 seconds) It was so much harder in college though. God, I was like, um, I felt that I could not go on in the relationship a number of times.
THERAPIST: Hmm.
CLIENT: Um, (pause for .03 seconds) but Jeremy is very, very sensitive to me and to his (pause for .03 seconds) protecting our relationship. Any time that that was sort of coming to the surface, he was very (pause for .07 seconds) he was very responsive. [00:20:56]
It was pretty hard actually to—it would've been very hard to leave because (pause for .03 seconds) it's the same thing. It's not like he was sleeping well and going to play music instead of working on his work. And the same for our relationship; it's not like he was totally not paying attention to my needs, or not aware of how painful it was. [00:21:26] 
He was so deeply aware and so deeply angry with himself and (pause for .04 seconds) frustrated, and made changes that he could -
THERAPIST: Um hmm.
CLIENT: but, like, you know, a lot of this stuff is not going to go away, right away. (pause for .03 seconds) So that was actually my first experience with therapy but it was very short, in college, which is like this relationship is super hard (pause for .04 seconds) was the theme. [00:22:09]
(pause for .14 seconds) But we're both a lot wiser and I feel much (pause for .11 seconds) I feel I'm able to detach more. 
THERAPIST: Um hmm. 
(pause from [00:22:46] to [00:22:56)
CLIENT: There's a pretty parallel situation—like this sort of thing like today what's going to happen happened so many times, but the first time it really happened that I was aware of how attached I was to the outcome was our junior year.
He was going to meet with the professor who ran the lab and he hadn't handed in his big, ah, manuscript-thing that we had to do for the class. And he had gotten an extension to hand it in and then he wasn't going to make the extension, so this was the meeting about whether he was going to fail this class, and fail the major—like this was one of the requiring classes. [00:23:52]
Um, so I remember I was sitting at my dorm desk and looking out the window, and completely paralyzed and unable to focus on anything. (pause for .03 seconds) I think I had a lot to do (pause for .04 seconds) and it was, it felt really bad that I couldn't attend to my own stuff. (pause for .10 seconds)
So now, today, um five years later, I do not feel paralyzed. I feel a little nervous and anxious, but I also feel like (pause for .05 seconds) the day's going to go on.
THERAPIST: Um hmm.
CLIENT: And we're going to go to jazz, well I'm going to go to jazz -
THERAPIST: Um hmm.
CLIENT: and the presidential debates are on and there's not too much that can happen that's going to perturb [sic] -
THERAPIST: Um hmm.
CLIENT: um, just going through the rest of the day. [00:25:14]
THERAPIST: Right. So you're much less in the grip of this—
CLIENT: Um hmm.
THERAPIST: and can continue. (pause for .05 seconds) Well, that's great. 
CLIENT: Um hmm.
THERAPIST: Um. (pause for .09 seconds) I guess it does seem to me (pause for .13 seconds) I think maybe there are some parallels with, sort of, (pause for .04 seconds) like where you can get to with (pause for .04 seconds) your work. I mean, not—you don't, as far as I'm concerned—you don't get stuck in the same way, or —
CLIENT: No. It's work, or -
THERAPIST: Yeah. [00:26:33]
CLIENT: that sort of thing.
THERAPIST: Um, yeah, you kind of keep moving forward with it and are much more able—even when you're really stressed out and frustrated—to reach out for help.
CLIENT: Yeah, I would've reached out about two weeks in. My inner-personal needs are so much—they're just really strong. 
THERAPIST: Um hmm. [00:27:06]
CLIENT: So it turns out that's actually a pretty successful strategy most of the time.
THERAPIST: Uh huh.
CLIENT: Cause you're rarely working on anything by yourself.
THERAPIST: Right.
CLIENT: But that's just the way I am. It's not, (pause for .04 seconds) like I've tried to cultivate it.
THERAPIST: Right. Um, (pause from [00:27:33] to [00:27:52) yeah, and maybe it's not such an issue, if you can you sort of do your work for the day and be bothered but not put it in what sounds like kind of a miniature-phobe way. I mean I guess the place to look would be (pause for .04 seconds) you know, um, (pause for .08 seconds) I mean, it does—almost like you've vicariously experienced his stress and, except that you're helpless cause you can't do all the things that you would have done if it were you. But it was him. [00:28:36]
CLIENT: Yeah. 
THERAPIST: You know, that is what I imagine used to hang you up about this.
CLIENT: Yeah, that was probably the main thing. 
THERAPIST: Yeah, and if we can sort of look more into how that affects you, if it seems relevant—I'm not sure how useful you feel that would be, in that—(pause for .03 seconds) it sounds like you feel so much more okay with this thing at least too (ph). [00:29:10]
CLIENT: Yeah. (pause for .06 seconds) I do a lot. A lot has changed. (pause for .04 seconds) The other thing that's on my mind is that, um, (pause for .05 seconds) I'm feeling well.
THERAPIST: Good.
CLIENT: And I had a conversation with my grandmother two nights ago—my mom's mom—it was the sort of thing where my mom was like, "Oh, Nonnie G"—Nonnie is the word for your mother's mother in Hindi and G is respectful, so it's Nonnie G—"Nonnie G asked about you and I just asked her when she might be free tonight, just in case you might want to call her." (laughs) [00:30:22]
THERAPIST: (laughs) 
CLIENT: (laughs) I was like, "Okay, Mom." So I never speak with her on the phone, but I think I mentioned to you that she is like this amazing community presence. She and my grandfather built a Hindi Society in the '70s, and have led it since then. 
They've just been pillars of their religious and sort of (pause for .04 seconds) they're sort of counselors almost in the community. A lot of people go to them for advice and for just listening. [00:31:14]
THERAPIST: Um hmm.
CLIENT: So they see, like, I mean they have so many devotees, and this is my grandmother whose mom was revered as a saint and still has a shrine in India. So it's maternal-lineal-special women thing.
Um, so she was—she like totally got it. I haven't spoken with her at all about how I've been feeling. I don't speak with her much outside of our big family gatherings, um, but I feel very close with her. So she just like—I just, maybe I just was poised or ready to be understood in this way but I felt like she really got it.
THERAPIST: Um hmm. That's good. So you did call her? [00:32:18]
CLIENT: I called her and I said, "Oh, well I'm going to be fine but things are hard. I've sort of been feeling bad and not settled and (pause for .05 seconds) "—I forget exactly how I summarized it but I didn't have to say much was the point. I think I said, like, "School is really hard and I really miss my parents, and Jeremy is wonderful, but it all sort of just like—just not really feeling so great." [00:33:05]
And she said, "Oh, uh huh. Yeah, this is a part of life that's really hard, and we all go through it, and we all go through it after marriage, and the thing is that you're going from a place where your main love is your mother's love, and that's a giving love. It's truly a giving love—there is no one in the whole world like your mother.
"And there's no one in the whole world like her mother, or my mother, like anyone's mother. A husband's love, a child's love—they're a taking love and you are the giver." [00:34:03]
And you know I was like, "My husband's wonderful," and she was like, "Yeah, yeah, yeah—everybody's wonderful. It's not the same as your mother's type of love. And actually you're starting to come into that role of giving and that's very hard," she said.
And she also said like, "Yeah. You must feel sort of empty, like not really super-sad and not really super-happy, just sort of empty. And that's going to take some time to come into your—come into this new role." [00:35:02]
(pause for .08 seconds) And that's not the whole story, but it really felt (pause for .03 seconds) right. (pause from [00:35:18] to [00:35:33) It felt like the main emotions that I've had have been like really yearning for being nurtured, being really scared of hard things that wouldn't scare me back when I was home. (ph)
But still like I don't want my mom to come here and that wouldn't really help anything. But what would—what does feel relieving—is this thought of going back home and leaving all of this, in some sense. But I don't think that's—I think what I think about when I think of that is going back in time. [00:36:28]
THERAPIST: Yeah, yeah, going back more to the ways things used to be, not the way they really would be now if you were there.
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: I mean, not quite.
CLIENT: Yeah. I mean, it would be nice to go home but that would be at a pretty big cost.
THERAPIST: Right. 
CLIENT: (pause for .08 seconds) And I mean, of course, she grew up in this pretty traditional Indian wife-mother role. It was funny that I mentioned that we're going to Jeremy's family's house this weekend and how Jeremy's parents are great, and how that will be really good, and she's like, "Yeah, yeah, now you'll have to go to Jeremy's family's house more, and you don't get to go to your house as much. (laughs) And you have to love—you have to give to all his family and love them, and that's a giving love too, but they're not going—it's not the same as your mom's —
THERAPIST: Um hmm.
CLIENT: love." And she's coming from this place where, like if I had married a traditional Indian person, I would be expected to wake up early in their house and help make breakfast and serve it, —
THERAPIST: Yeah. [00:38:09]
CLIENT: and take care of the elderly—Jeremy's grandmother will be there. And I don't have to do any of that but at the same time (pause for .05 seconds) it's not—it's sort of like family love but it's not really (pause for .04 seconds), like to go there. 
THERAPIST: Yeah.
CLIENT: And I think like -
THERAPIST: Maybe to be—it's reminding me of, like from your conversations with Kelly (ph) even when you were really upset and she was in some ways, pretty maternal, but it wasn't the same. [00:39:02]
CLIENT: No, it wasn't the same. And just a poignant example; Tammy, Jeremy's sister is coming. She lives in San Diego and just had a baby a year ago. I feel—I think Tammy is a challenging person for me, maybe just because of our roles. And so the dogs at Jeremy's house were so amazing and really an incredible part of visiting there, and exactly what you sort of want at this time. Warm, unconditional snuggles with a warm mammal who isn't going to say anything.
And instead—so the dogs can't be there because Michael is coming and he -
THERAPIST: Is that Tammy's husband? [00:40:05]
CLIENT: He's Tammy's son—one-year-old son. And Tammy loves dogs; like I think part of this is just being overprotective. Jeremy and I both really, really love the dogs, and when I found out that the dogs weren't going to be there I cried. It just, um, I think I cried because it was like: here I am. I'm not going to my house. I'm going to Jeremy's house, and like Tammy's running the show—she's a little bossy—and her baby's going to be really cute, but it's going to be like all of this navigating —
THERAPIST: Yep.
CLIENT: the bossy Tammy, and all the people who -
THERAPIST: Yeah, that unconditional love was going to come from the dogs and they're not even going to be there. [00:41:00]
CLIENT: I know.
THERAPIST: What the hell.
CLIENT: So now I just have to—now I really just feel like what Nonnie G said was (pause for .03 seconds) was very true. She said, "Give. It's not your place to say that Tammy's overprotective." I complained enough about the dogs so everyone knows how I feel. It's not going to change.
THERAPIST: (inaudible from [00:41:32] to [00:41:40)
CLIENT: See you tomorrow. 
THERAPIST: See you tomorrow, (client's name) (ph) . [00:41:42]
END TRANSCRIPT
