<font size="4"><b>The Thirty-Ninth Day</b></font>

The alcoholics began to roll in in twos and threes today.
The doctor said they were the result of pre-Christmas and
Christmas celebrations.


"They try for a few days to get out of itand then give
up," he said. "Think drinking's going to bother you when
you leave?"


"I don't think so, but I'm not going to boast that it won't.
Did that too many times."


"Well, you should know enough now to stay away from it
when you're down. And you <i>will</i> be down at times; you'll
start to be the little boy of five again, but you can stop it
now. I'm pretty sure of that."


He said that he would sign me out after New Year's. "Better
take a day or so after that; you'll want to get your car out
and probably buy a few things. I'll give you an order for your
money and personal belongings; you get Dr. Sheets to sign
itand you're all set."


"I'm glad I'm not going today," I said, looking out the
window. It was a sleet storm this time. The doctor said that
sleet storms were hell, but he thought the roads would be all
right by the time I was ready to go.

[p. <i>272</i>]

He knew Eloise, and I asked if she and her husband had
made Indiana all right.


"They got there, but Eloise came down with the flu.
They're home now, but she's still laid up. Got a new cold
myself." He was coughing and his eyes were red. He seemed
to want to rest, and his eyes wandered listlessly around the
room.


I said, "You must be tired most of the time. And don't
you get bored, too?"


"Tired, but never bored. Bad thing to be bored, even if
the occasion calls for it."


I told him how often I had been bored in the past, and
even cut off persons who bored me. He nodded.


"You got worked up over intolerancethe Dreyfus case,
for examplebut were intolerant yourself if someone bored
you. That's what boredom isintolerance. Well, sermon's
over."


He bore down on the alcoholics; some were repeaters, and
they greeted him cheerfully but with red faces. Others, making
their first visits, looked uneasy. New or old, he spared
none of them; he didn't lash them, but he goaded them. Apparently
he could tellor guessfrom their reactions what
was bothering them. He sailed into them as a group and left
them gaping. Tomorrow he would take them, one by one.
During my stay on D-3 I knew of only one alcoholic who
never came around to admiring the doctor. All he wanted
was to dry out and be released to go to the nearest tavern.
He said that all psychiatrists were quacks.


Len grumbled about the doctor, but he admired him. Len
grumbled about a lot of things he admired.


Despite the sleet, five of us elected to go to the canteen.
Miss Love stood her usual guard until we were bundled up to

[p. <i>273</i>]

Half-way to the canteen I remembered that I had not
drawn my Friday stipend. I hurried back, and the others went
on. Miss Love gave me my envelope containing the money.


"Imagine," she said, "anyone forgetting such a thing!"


"I thought they were supposed to pass out the envelopes
here. They always haveuntil today. Saves us mentally retarded
persons from concentrating too much."


"Do you wish to register a complaint, sir?" she asked
sweetly.


"No. Feel too good today."


"She must have been nice to you at the dance!"


I said, as Miss Love let me out again, "It's not that. I feel
good because of Grandmother and her bloomers."


Miss Love's pretty mouth fell open. "Are you all right?"


"Never better!" And left her to puzzle over it.


Near the canteen I heard Suzy calling me. She was behind
me, running as fast as she could over the sleet-slippery
path.


Her scarf trailed behind her, and her hair was tousled.
One of her galoshes had slipped half off, making her limp
as she ran.


Oblivious of others on the path, she threw her arms around
me. "Oh, Yack, he said you were dead! He said you were
dead!"


"Dead? Who said I was dead?"


She said, choking, "Teddy. He was outside the canteen. I
asked him if you were inside. He said, He's dead, Suzy; he
died last night. I ran all the way over to Receiving, but
they wouldn't let me go up to D-3."


"That dirty, no-good, stinking...."


Suzy looked up. Her face had been ashy, but the color

[p. <i>274</i>]

"You stay here. I'm going in and get that little bastard!"


"Don't hurt him, Yack. He doesn't know any better."


Len met me at the canteen door and pushed me back with
his big belly. "I've fixed it," he said. "I fixed him, too. No
point in your adding to it. Anyway, he ducked out through
Center; probably back on D-3 by now."


"I'll go over there and get him. Christ, Len, what he might
have done to Suzy! This still could send her off."


"I know," Len said gently. "But I slapped him twice in
front of everyone, including Jeanne, and that's about the
worst insult you can give a seventeen-year-old, even one
who's off his rocker as Teddy is. It was a stinking trick, but
he just isn't responsible. You can't mop up the floor with
someone who's not all there."


I had used the same argument when Len wanted to knock
the block off The Brat. I calmed down somewhat.


"My slapping him took the starch right out of him," Len
said. "He kind of took me on for awhile as his second pappy,
you know."


"He'd take anyone on for a pappy if the guy had money,"
I said bitterly.


I went back to Suzy; she said that she didn't want to go
into the canteen. "They'd all laugh at me."


"I don't think so. I don't think anyone is going to laugh
at youor play any more tricks."


I told her about Len. "Yes, that probably was the best
thing to do. Len's grand, isn't he?"


"None better. I've never seen him drinking, but he'd have
to go pretty far to sour me."


Suzy was herself again. She pinched my arm. "Yes, I guess

[p. <i>275</i>]

I was shocked for a moment; then I thought: Well, why
wouldn't she think that? ... "That's over, Suzy; I'm sure
it's over. It'll crop up now and then, maybethe doctor says
it will. But that's as far as it'll go."


"I'm sure it's over, too. But just for an instant...."


We decided against the hill and walked along the paths.
We crossed a little bridge over a stream that was fighting
desperately to keep from being frozen over, and stopped in
front of the garage housing my car. I lifted Suzy so that she
could look through the window, but the sleet had glazed it
and she could see nothing.


"It would be fun to ride in your car," she said. "What
color is it?"


"Green, with gray upholstery. Suppose they'd let you go
down town with me when I get the car?"


"Afraid not. I haven't town parole."


"I could kidnap you."


"That <i>would</i> be fun! Would you tie me up and beat me?"


"I don't think so. I beat only homely women."


She laughed to herself. "It wouldn't do for us to drive
around the grounds, either."


"No. In fact, I'm surprised they haven't said something
already about our being together so much."


"Well, they don't know about the hillor that's what we
think. And lots of patientsmen and women, I meanwalk
together on the grounds."


I askedand kicked myself for asking, "Will you go up on
the hill after I leave?"


She looked at me in a puzzled way. "Why, of course. Why
shouldn't I? I'll go up there, and I'll think of you, and when
I come down maybe there'll be a letter for me."

[p. <i>276</i>]

"There'll be lettersmany of them. I'll write every night
on the way out."


"And tell me about everything you see? And about California?
Are the orange trees pretty?"


"If you like orange trees. Give me cherry trees, blossoming
or bent under their red clusters, any day."


Suzy said that she wouldn't be silly any more about going
into the canteen. We went back and had grilled cheese sandwiches
and chocolate milk. No one acted as though anything
had happened. Only the bubbling Lil mentioned the incident,
and we didn't mind her.


"My God," she said, peering at me, "death becomes you!"

