Transcript of Audio File:
______________________________________________________________________________
BEGIN TRANSCRIPT:
THERAPIST: Good morning.
CLIENT: Good morning. How are you?
THERAPIST: I'm okay.
CLIENT: It's been a good couple of days. Yeah.
THERAPIST: That's good.
CLIENT: Haven't ...had any major breakdowns. And yeah, (inaudible) getting things done as a way to cope (inaudible) even if I don't have a place to live but I talked with (inaudible) and I'm just going to look for an apartment with other people to sublet (inaudible). And that seems a lot more realistic and I have been looking into it. And so, I feel less anxious about that. Almost there with the insurance. I feel less anxious about that. Although of course, the insurance, it's too late to sign up for next month. So I'll start (inaudible) in August. (pause) Yeah, and I kind of officially started my job today. Had a meeting with Professor (inaudible) presumably give me something to do and I'll do it. (pause) Yeah, I um, feel a little more normal.
THERAPIST: Good.
CLIENT: Yeah. Yeah. (long pause)
THERAPIST: You seem quite anxious which I'm assuming is the couch. [00:02:50]
CLIENT: (laughs). I don't know. I mean, part of it's the couch, yes, (laughs), part of it's that I (inaudible) shoot a drop which I typically do. Part of it is that when I come in to therapy and I've had a good day and I don't really have anything to talk about, or I feel like a) I don't really have anything to talk about and b) I always just kind of say, okay, what am I doing here? I'm not doing this right. (laughs) Which is, uh, you know, perhaps silly but um,
THERAPIST: Not doing it right, in that you don't have anything to talk about? Or for some other reason?
CLIENT: Yeah, (long pause). It's just, I (pause), I'm not sure what, both like within the therapy and kind of in my larger life...like I don't know how to do things other than crisis management. I feel like I'm (pause), I don't, I don't know. And also it's, (pause) I think maybe I'm getting better and then that is scary to me because a) I always think that and then I always get worse (laughs) and b) it's like if I get better, I will have been wasting everybody's time. Which I realize is not actually the case, but [00:04:58]
THERAPIST: (inaudible)
CLIENT: (pause) You know, part of me, not sure what getting better looks like other than, you know, not wanting to kill myself. (long pause) Yeah, um. (long pause) So I guess it seems as though, when I think too hard about the fact that I'm feeling better, I then feel worse. (laughs) So there are these sometimes not the best thing for me when I'm having a good day.
THERAPIST: I see. Then you think about feeling better and then you feel worse.
CLIENT: (laughs) Yeah. Yeah. (pause) Um, (pause) [00:06:33]
CLIENT: My roommate and I, or she suggested an agreement, that if she keeps a food diary which she needs to do but doesn't want to do and hasn't been doing, I will start keeping my diary cards again, which I need to do but don't want to do and haven't been doing. I'm unsure whether we'll actually...nice thought (laughs).
THERAPIST: Diary cards?
CLIENT: For like, yeah, tracking mood and then. (pause) You know, it's one of those things where I can really see the utility of it (pause) but it's probably going to take a lot of training to get me to do it. (pause) You know, anything with a, it took me a long time to take my meds regularly. I'm just not good at those things. Or, you know, pattern formation is hard.
(long pause) [00:08:19]
CLIENT: In preparation for my job, I'm doing research, I've been just reading up on my history. It's too depressing. (laughs). It's soooo depressing (laughs). Um, I don't know. So my head's kind of full of Labor Movement. (inaudible. Kind of boring?) (long pause).
THERAPIST: Are there things that are coming to mind that you don't feel like saying for some reason? Or is it that your mind is kind of blank or something else?
CLIENT: Oh, well, it's kind of blank. I, (pause) a combination of blank and being non-directional. For some reason, you know, I'm, well, I'll have a thought and it doesn't have anything to do with what I'm talking...(trails off), which now that I say that out loud, I realize that's exactly the way that this therapy works. (laughs). So, (inaudible through laughter). I'm a little anxious about whether I'll be able to do this job at all. But in that I, if I think about it reasonably, I think I SHOULD be anxious but I'm kind of relying on the fact that I have been successful in these types of situations before and not really thinking much about it, basically ((inaudible)) well, ((inaudible)) history of the United States (inaudible) which is what I'm going to do after this. I'll figure it out as I go along. It's not like he doesn't know that I don't know it.
THERAPIST: Right. [00:11:11]
CLIENT: So...(pause). Yeah, that was a funny interview.
THERAPIST: What happened?
CLIENT: It's just that...I think I might have said this at some point already but (inaudible passage through laughter) [00:11:34] Yeah, you know, I told him what I think is the truth, that, I learn new fields quickly. I have switched fields pretty often and I'm good at, you know, I have very good basic research skills. I can figure out how to find things out pretty fast. Yeah. Part of me is worried that they just hired me because I'm hot but, oh well, I can't do anything about that. It was a good interview, though. I mean, I was as articulate as I get. But, I have not been so articulate in the last couple of days (laughter). I went on Monday to do the financial, you know, getting in their system sort of thing and I basically couldn't string two sentences together. And Monday was not a very good day. [00:12:55]
THERAPIST: Right.
CLIENT: But I, you know, the day of the interview was also not a very good day so, I don't know. (pause) (says something under her breath) [00:13:07]. I don't know whether I will want to go back to (inaudible) program after this year. It's disappointing for me how easy I find it to think about just leaving (long pause) I feel like I walk away from things too fast. Maybe not too fast but I feel like I have the tendency to invest myself very deeply in things and then just walk away when they get too much for me and then just not look back.
CLIENT: (inaudible after pause) [00:14:31] I worked at (name of store?) for about 4 months. This store opened in Cleveland, it's like, God, I was such a sucker in some ways. Like it was good for me in that, for the first time, I worked, realizing that I was working for a company that did not have my best interest at heart, that was GOING to exploit my desire to do good work in order to get as much very good work from me at, you know, $7.25 an hour, as they could. I like, you know, held on and held on and held on. This store was in a lot of trouble. The management that they hired when the store opened was just terrible and as a result, the first set of employees were terrible and so they like, put increasingly higher up corporate people to come in and fix things. And got a whole bunch of people from other stores in the area to come in and retrain everybody. And it was basically like trying to dig this place out of the ground. You know, there was a lot of like scolding the employees as part of that, (pause), you know, I really had to advocate for myself. But part of that was, you know, I need any of these things to change or I can't work here anymore and it didn't' change and so I left. Enough. (pause) But I can't always do that. (long pause) I mean, I kind of tell myself that it's not so bad until I realize that it is VERY VERY bad and then, I leave and then maybe I said that it's, I think that it's worse than it was (inaudible) [00:17:20] go back. Every year that, taking this leave of absence is, it's bad in that, I don't know whether there will be a department to come back to (laughs)
THERAPIST: Oh really?
CLIENT: Um, well, they've got an endowed, the oldest endowed chair in the university is that of Greek Languages. So (she ?) is going to be replaced when she retires by somebody, but I don't whether they'll, they're not hiring, like they've been having people leave and they're not rehiring for the past 5 or 6 years. Maybe that's an exaggeration, maybe 3 or 4 years. But the whole faculty is on the verge of retirement except for one guy who's probably not going to get tenure because the school doesn't give tenure and he's in the Div school anyway. And, you know, it's a little disappointing to realize that like, even if I stay around and get my degree, there's a good chance that degree will be worth a lot less than it was when I started the program because the program is not, the university is not giving the program the support it needs. Like they're not ((inaudible)) [00:18:38] the new hires. (sighs) I don't know, there's this group of women in the Bible, it's like the women students ((inaudible)) PhD. It's so depressing. You know, at first I thought it was just because I tend to do better in mixed gender groups than with all women. But I think it's just these women are sad and bitter and frustrated, the women who are several years ahead of me. And so it's like, they're trying to help me and the other people around my age. But ((inaudible)) they're basically being like, yeah you're fucked (laughs). Thank you, that's exactly what I wanted to hear in my first 6 months in the PhD program. It was kind of like the ((inaudible)) [00:19:52] that I find infuriating. This one woman who clearly wants to be like a mentor to me or wants to be a mentor to younger students in general. But like, said at one point just like offhanded, laughing hahaha, she thought of me like a lamb through the slaughter. Do you seriously think that I can't think for myself? I realize that I look fairly young and I realize that I, people think that I am naïve, but I, and I am, to some extent. But that's not treating me like an equal. That's not treating me like a colleague. [00:20:48]
THERAPIST: It sounds to me from a lot of what you've said today is that you're kind of under siege or under attack in almost everything you've said.
CLIENT: Huh. (some disbelief). Yeah.
THERAPIST: And I think, partly, you want my help and support in trying to kind of sort of stand with you against that, rather as coming from something self-destructive or something outside that's destructive. But partly I think you feel just so scared and overwhelmed.
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: By being kind of, is that like whether it's in your department, or at this old job, or in your new job, or in the possibility of getting better, or in lying in the couch.
CLIENT: (laughs). Yeah, I
THERAPIST: Or having put together a string of good days.
CLIENT: I want to say, I always feel this way. But that's probably not true. (long pause) [00:22:54]
CLIENT: Yeah, I mean (long pause) um, it doesn't, yeah, I don't, (pause) it doesn't seem prudent for me to relax very much. (laughs) I mean, I
THERAPIST: The phrase that just came to my mind is like, 'mugging'.
CLIENT: What do you mean?
THERAPIST: Like you're afraid of, and I'm not saying without reason, but like a 'mood mugging', like you're getting mugged by your moods.
CLIENT: (Laughs.) Hmmm, (sounds skeptical) yeah, that's certainly part of it. That I, every time I think maybe I'm getting better, I get worse. Or I, something shoots me down. (hesitant) It's always touch-and-go as to whether what I have to deal with the world is going to be enough. I mean, in part that's why I like hiking so much because I always know that it's going to be enough. It's really hard, but it's also really easy. All I have to do is bring enough water, bring enough food, wear good shoes. And it's really easy. So I did relax last week. But that was also because I said, okay, I'm going to pretend that the rest of my life doesn't exist for this time. I'm just not going to deal with it. But nothing else (trails off) [00:25:12]
THERAPIST: I feel like part of what you're, I think wanting (inaudible) [00:25:26]from me is like help and protection from you.
CLIENT: I think I do, but I also don't (therapist wants to continue).
THERAPIST: Let me say
CLIENT: Oh sorry.
THERAPIST: That's all right. I imagine that's mostly unconscious and that more consciously you'd be much more the mind of like, I have water I need for this hike, shoes I need for this hike, map I need for this hike, (inaudible 00:25:54) come along, but let me be very clear that I'm self-sufficient on this. Again, not that you don't know how to ask for help, or that you haven't, but
CLIENT: But it's more like, I've asked for help so fucking many times that I don't expect it. Or I can't expect it. Yeah, of course I really want you to help me. I really really do (crying). I REALLY do. But I (pause) I can't expect it.
THERAPIST: What's it like? Do you have sort of images or scenarios of how I would help or protect you from the kind of stuff you're talking about?
CLIENT: (laughs). Unsurprisingly, I'm just convinced that if I can understand it, understand myself, understand the situation well enough, I can get out of it.
THERAPIST: So if I like help you do that?
CLIENT: Yeah, yeah. [00:27:31]
THERAPIST: Like if I'm smart enough or (inaudible) or something, to have some of the right ideas or point you in the direction of the ideas that we can (inaudible).
CLIENT: Yeah, but I mean, mostly I feel like, I don't actually really know what you do. (Laughs.) I don't have a clear understanding of what your job is. And so it's more that (pause) I'm asking you for help because everybody, (inaudible) told me to ask you. And (pause) you know, and because I like and trust you as a person and ((inaudible)) I didn't have anywhere else to go (emotional).
THERAPIST: So you're in that way, like, desperate?
CLIENT: Yeah, yeah. I, (pause) yeah. Happened for a long time. Figuring out the insurance is a pretty good, crystallization of what I feel like my life has been like for the last couple of years. I call one office and they say, oh, we're not the right office, I'll transfer you. And then they hang up on me. And then I look up the number that they transfer me to, and I call that number, and they say, oh we're not the right office and they're very indignant of me. The previous office told me right here. And they transfer me to somewhere else and they transfer me to somewhere else. And here I talked to somebody who was really nice and helpful or trying to be helpful and I think, okay, we've got this figured out. And then, it just like drops. So right now I'm waiting for somebody to e-mail me back to see whether or not they agree that I don't have access to prescription drugs or preventive medication under their health plan. Like it's really not hard (laughs). Here's your plan brochure, here are the requirements for the state. I'm pretty sure you can give me that letter within 3 days. But, yeah, (pause, searching for words) (not clear(inaudible) 00:30:51) I have the right to expect help or that, I don't know.
THERAPIST: I think you're, I may, (pause) go ahead.
CLIENT: So, my first meeting with Dr. (inaudible) right after I came, started at school, and I was kind of like, okay, I need to establish a relationship with a psychiatrist and psychologist just in case. And that was where I was. So I had the intake interview. And she was like, we can do better than this for you (crying). And that was just, (pause) that was very shocking for me, in a good way. (Crying) You know? And now, it's turning out, yeah, maybe we can't do better for me. (inaudible) medication. (sniff). And that's really hard for me to deal with.
THERAPIST: Absolutely.
CLIENT: And it's really hard for me not to get angry at her.
THERAPIST: Sure.
CLIENT: For making me think that my life didn't have to be this way (crying) Because if (inaudible through crying) [00:32:29] this way, I can (or can't?) deal with it. I can (or can't) figure it out. But I really don't want that. It's like, okay, fine, I have to live with other people, I have to live in somebody else's apartment and kind of stay in my room for another year. Okay fine. I can't live with them (ph) for another year. I don't want that. But when I know that that's what has to happen, I can deal with it. It'll be okay. It will be the best option. That will be fine. But I (sniff), I don't know. I get upset with myself because it's really easy, it's so easy for me to believe that things can be better. I always buy it. You know, the whole mess, I feel like came largely out of me thinking that we can all be better people than anyone else who have fallen in love with something who wasn't (inaudible) [00:33:43]. We could do better (sniff) (long pause). I really want you to help me but I don't, (pause), I don't know.
THERAPIST: Well, I feel like, uh, (pause), uh I don't know that this is quite what you're intending to say, but what you're telling me is two things, first of which is, of course, you want me to help you but, you really don't want to be disappointed and you don't want to be promised the kind of help that you're not going to get.
CLIENT: Yeah, well, I mean one of the reasons that I like you is that you're not lavish with your promises. (laughs) I mean, really, (laughs.)
THERAPIST: Yeah, that may be. I mean, I think I know what you're referring to. The other thing you're telling me, I think, is that, at some level, it feels like the kind of help you need is sort of pretty damn simple and pretty doable and you don't know why it isn't happening. Or you're not getting it. [00:36:00]
CLIENT: I don't know. Maybe.
THERAPIST: Which is to say that (inaudible) or anything like that. (pause) I guess it wouldn't surprise me if it felt like that. Like with the health insurance that, you know, like (mimicking) people, pretty clear what I need. I can explain it to you quickly in small words.
CLIENT: (laughs).
THERAPIST: (she says something like 'What is that?')
CLIENT: But it's, (pause) I mean sometimes it's clear what I need, it's not at all clear that it's possible for it to happen or
THERAPIST: Would you (inaudible) [00:37:07]
CLIENT: I just need to not feel so bad. I just need to not get in my own way. But I can't do that on my own and I don't have any idea how somebody else could help me with that. Or maybe it seems like it ought to be simple but all of my experiences show that it's not very simple and so I don't know what, I don't know what problems are solvable or not.
THERAPIST: Let me, also, I'm squinting over at the clock, we have a few minutes. But, let me, this may already be clear to you, but (inaudible) sort of a schematic way, but at least something about what my approach is here. Like I've said before, like I'm not intending to me cryptic.
CLIENT: I know.
THERAPIST: I do imagine, I guess even assume that there is a logic or a story about the kind of whys and wherefores of your feeling really bad. That there are (pause) reasons things get triggered, you know, (inaudible) triggered the way they do, reasons that you feel worse after feeling better, stuff like that. And I guess I try to look for clues about what that logic or what those stories might be. Especially from within what's going on in our interaction but not exclusively from that. [00:39:50]
CLIENT: Yeah, that makes sense. Thank you.
THERAPIST: Sure. (long pause) And I guess also embedded in what I just said is the assumption that knowing in a sort of direct, kind of emotional and immediate way, what the kind of emotional logic (inaudible) is, is helpful.
CLIENT: That's always been my assumption too, but I feel especially, in talking with you, that's kind of taken apart. And maybe that is me realizing that I don't understand, that I missed the emotional logic of myself as well as I kind have thought. But I have learned, but I feel like (inaudible) drawn up to the wall, if I can understand where this is coming from and why I do it. But that doesn't help. It doesn't necessarily help. It seems so obvious that if I can understand it I should be able to figure out how to fix it. Um, but I don't, I feel like I don't have faith in that anymore. [00:41:57]
THERAPIST: It does seem to me there's a lot of this you don't understand which is not to say that I do.
CLIENT: (laughs) helpful for me to hear. If I don't understand it, then I (inaudible) at some point.
THERAPIST: Right.
CLIENT: Yeah, okay.
THERAPIST: So we should stop for now.
[End of audio file]
END TRANSCRIPT
