TRANSCRIPT OF AUDIO FILE:
______________________________________________________________________________
BEGIN TRANSCRIPT:
PATIENT: How are you?
COUNSELOR: OK. And yourself?
PATIENT: Tired. And really tense. [Just did] (ph) work. I'm going to be tense for a while.
COUNSELOR: Could it feel tense in here, too? Is there any way of... (Crosstalk)?
PATIENT: I felt a little tense coming here, yeah.
COUNSELOR: Yeah?
PATIENT: Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah. I just thought, "What's going to happen today?" And then I felt, "Well, I'll deal with it."
COUNSELOR: Any sense of what that dread was? Like, what's going to happen today?
PATIENT: Yeah. I thought, are you going to bring up the subject of the relationship between us again. And within that, then, would I be open about things or would I be closing down on things, or what? And not being able to think about what I would talk about, because I just have had a day of, do this, do this, do this, and this done, and this done. So... I'm here. I'm freeform, I guess. So...
COUNSELOR: Maybe that's part of what's hard is a little bit more freeform than what you (crosstalk)?
PATIENT: Yeah. I could come in and say I have nothing to talk about. So...
COUNSELOR: But it sounds like the idea that I might - there's something about my raising (inaudible) relationship that makes you... [02:04]
PATIENT: Well, it's come up the past four sessions.
COUNSELOR: Oh yeah? You think you can count? (Chuckles)
PATIENT: Well, at least the past four sessions. And -
COUNSELOR: Well, it sounds like you have a reaction to that.
PATIENT: Well, since it sometimes closes a gap to come between us, yeah. It's not necessarily pleasant for me to deal with. I feel like I've done something wrong sometimes, or I feel that I may have said something that you won't like. So then I kind of - I'm going to be a little bit wary of it.
COUNSELOR: So when we actually talk about us, it feels like there's a gap and it leads to more disconnection rather than more connection (inaudible).
PATIENT: Um-hmm. Yeah. Which is not to say we can't talk about it. It's just...
COUNSELOR: Which is just to say that there's something uncomfortable about it, is what I'm hearing.
PATIENT: Well, I think it's like what I said last week; in terms of I'm not sure exactly where you're going with it. It's been coming up, but my manner of dealing with things is, "OK, we've talked about that. Let's move on." That kind of thing. And so I don't know where to go with it. It's simply - I mean, that occurred to me today. "Well, I've got therapy tonight, that subject's been coming up. Where are we going to go with it?" [04:11]
COUNSELOR: Meaning, like, it doesn't make sense to you, or you feel kind of stuck?
PATIENT: No. It kind of makes sense to me - I'll give you a wishy washy answer. It kind of makes sense to me. I kind of feel stuck. I mean, I think, like I said last week, in terms of, I don't remember exactly what the subject was, but it was where - now I remember what my reaction was.
My reaction was to not really count you as an individual. You were someone else. Remember when I told you about the thing with the Rorschach test and not being able to see people's faces and that kind of thing? And, you know, I know - I'm aware that I do that. And I think that may in fact be a great deal of what you get with me, that... Something else occurs to me.
That I don't always see what you're presenting or who you are, or what feelings you're directing towards me. Because I'm used to being in my safety mode of having a wall up to keep people out because I'm afraid they're going to hurt me, I'm afraid that's going to happen.
But it also occurs to me that within that, you are kind of a blank, in that I don't know anything about you.
COUNSELOR: Well, I was wondering -
PATIENT: Other than I know you went to South Africa for a vacation with your husband, I think, or significant other, whatever. And other than that, I know nothing about you. [06:23]
COUNSELOR: Is that what makes me seem blank, or is it a way in which you don't know what I'm really thinking or feeling in the moment? I mean, I'm recalling your times telling me that you feel like I can be kind of cryptic, or not direct. And I'm wondering if part of that is, if in some way it feels like I'm not really showing you who I am, in terms of how I'm feeling, or... There's some way that I can emote (ph) to you, and from the way that I relate to you.
PATIENT: Somewhat. But I also think it's part and parcel of this program. In 30 weeks, I don't think that you can - me as a client - get to know who you are. I have a sense of who you are somewhat, as a therapist. I'm not sure where your, I don't know where your leanings are, I suppose.
COUNSELOR: In what sense?
PATIENT: In the sense that - I mean, you're more unstructured in your manner on things.
COUNSELOR: ...than other therapists that you've worked with?
PATIENT: Than other therapists, right. You don't really give me tasks to do. I hate doing tasks.
COUNSELOR: You hate doing tasks.
PATIENT: Yeah, I hate doing tasks. I know the importance of them, but I'm afraid I'm going to fail at them. It's - that it won't be good enough. And that's probably somewhat of my trepidation about coming here today. If you bring up the issue, am I going to close down? If I close down, I'm not going to be good enough, yeah. [08:33]
COUNSELOR: So it sounds like in some way the tasks are less clear, but there's still a sense that you - that's why you say you don't know what I'm looking for, like it makes it harder to know whether you're performing adequately if you don't know...
PATIENT: Yeah, I think there's a part of that, yeah.
COUNSELOR: ...what you're looking for. It sounds like you (inaudible) feeling kind of anxious.
PATIENT: Yeah. It also... it just... It leaves like a - the image I just had in my mind, in terms of communication, is it's like knocking at a door and not being sure what's behind it. Or not... just not... Wanting communication, or wanting to give communication and not necessarily feeling I have the right channel for it.
COUNSELOR: The right channel for it.
PATIENT: Yeah.
COUNSELOR: Like a safe channel? [10:11]
PATIENT: It's somewhat that, but it's also... Something else comes to mind. Well, see where this goes. It also occurs to me that I should be going with what I want to feel, where I want to go, somewhat. That feeling kind of connected. I mean, it's in here, but I don't know if it's answering your question. Maybe it's a choice. Maybe that's what I'm trying to deal with. It's a choice of what... To say what I want to present to you sounds fake, that's not necessarily what I mean. To get out how I feel about something.
COUNSELOR: I'm a little lost, yeah. Feeling (crosstalk).
PATIENT: Yeah, I want to let you know I'm lost too. You know how - let's see if this sounds good to me.
COUNSELOR: Well, can I check in with you first like how you're feeling, because it sounds like you're struggling to get your point across, and you're kind of lost yourself. So I'm wondering are you aware of how you're feeling? Could that help us understand the lost?
PATIENT: Well, I'm struggling. But the idea of what's important to me... You know when you'll ask me something and I give you an answer? Like I'll say, "I'm on a teeter-totter, or, I don't know, it could be this, it could be that. And in terms of choice, I think that's a part of it. I guess I want it to be a safe choice, and for it to be a safe choice, that doesn't necessarily mean it's what I want. [12:48]
COUNSELOR: It would be what would be what I wanted or what I would react well to.
PATIENT: What I would think could be... yes. A safe choice. A safe choice in - I have (ph) to go back to that. I don't want us going back to that, but we'll go back. Last week when I said about the therapy has been good, not great. All right? I need to say that, but it was not a safe thing for me to say. I'm still cringing this week.
COUNSELOR: Really?
PATIENT: I said that.
COUNSELOR: Is it partly what made it hard to come tonight, do you think?
PATIENT: Yeah. It was part of it. But I needed to say that.
COUNSELOR: What's the...
PATIENT: Now I'm looking a safe way out of this, that I brought the subject up again, and where do I really want to go with that.
COUNSELOR: Something feel scary about having to introduce that again?
PATIENT: Yeah. Because... What I'm feeling is, I brought it back up again. You're going to be putting pressure on me to explain. You really haven't. I'm putting pressure on myself to explain. [It isn't as if] (ph) you putting pressure on me to explain.
COUNSELOR: Like trying to beat me to the punch or something?
PATIENT: Yeah. And I don't know if we're getting off track on what we were talking about or not. It's probably not, if I think of that as that. I mean, if I put it into terms that I'm afraid to stand up for my opinions (ph). You know, I'm afraid to - not just my opinions, but also my wants. [15:30]
And we talked about that before, in terms of my wanting to trust my creativity but being afraid to do so. Or what I want, or like, when I first got the letter and the photo from Tanya. And wanting to feel good about that, and wanting to make statements about how I felt about him, but I was afraid to, in a lot of ways.
COUNSELOR: So is the worry, the feeling that I might pressure you to say more about what you mean by good, not great, that you might have - the worries about stating what you'd really want?
PATIENT: That's part of it. The other part of the worry is that you're going to take exception to it. Like what we talked last week, that you're going to come back at me and... It all fits in together, in terms of like what you just said to me about me having to express what I feel. Right? That's what you said to me? [17:13]
COUNSELOR: Or what you want.
PATIENT: Or what I want, right. And simply the - it's simple. The expectations that you would have of me, of wanting to go with that. And then I just start to self-doubt it, "Well, is that what I really want?" And I think behind that - sorry to interrupt you.
COUNSELOR: No, that's OK.
PATIENT: ...And I think behind that is somewhat, "OK, if you're questioning this, I must be wrong."
COUNSELOR: If I'm interested to know more about it, then that leaves you feeling like you're wrong.
PATIENT: It potentially sets me up to be wrong. Yeah.
COUNSELOR: 'Cause what I hear - I mean, I hear a lot - it sounds complicated. There are many parts to all of this. One thing I hear is you saying that you raise a criticism, or some feeling of not getting all that you want, and maybe [there'd be] (ph) expectations that you might have of me, and it sounds like it quickly flips to, well, if you're having expectations of me, I'm going to have bigger ones of you. Like my sense is it starts to feel dangerous to allow yourself to have any wishes or expectations of me. [18:49]
PATIENT: Yeah. I think that's why relationships can feel for me, because I'm afraid I can't - I suppose I can't be good enough for someone. I want something from them, and I'm probably very good at giving back a lot to them, but I can't recognize that. And I get afraid that I'm not going to be able to.
COUNSELOR: So you worry about not being able to be good enough. And I guess what I find myself feeling sometimes in here is that what I have to offer isn't good enough. Or that I'm not sure how to be helpful to you. I think I sometimes feel frustrated that what I try - I guess, what I perceive as trying to offer something feels not right to you.
And I say that, I mean on both - I think it's important to understand that, but I guess, it seems like there's interplay between [our both feeling] (ph). It's something I'm aware of sometimes that's hard for me to get quite right. It looks like you're having a reaction to that. How does that sound to (crosstalk)? [20:39]
PATIENT: A lot of it sounds right. I know that it's very difficult for me to let somebody in (ph). It's very difficult, it's been very difficult, for me to let someone in for, like, the last three years. And I know I'm doing much better than I was, over the course of the past two and a half years.
And I was just so incredibly down and numb, and desperate in a lot of ways, in terms of making a living... And trying to get out of the hole that I was in. And I partially fell into it, and I partially jumped into it. And there's been a certain fear on my part, I think, to really go back and look at that. Because I don't want to go back to that (inaudible). It hurt a lot. [22:24]
COUNSELOR: What, to look at jumping into the hole?
PATIENT: Yeah. It seemed to me, in some ways, that it's been better for me to look at the positive side of things and what I'm doing, and what my positive reactions are. And maybe that's why I close down on you when you start to ask me things more than usual. More than usual, I don't know if that's true or not, but...
COUNSELOR: Because it might lead you somewhere where you are trying to escape (crosstalk)?
PATIENT: Yeah. And I (inaudible) a lot of (inaudible). I mean, I know I'm still numbed out to a certain extent, but maybe the better feelings about myself are helping to make that numbness more realistic. Does that make sense?
COUNSELOR: I just got lost there.
PATIENT: Oh boy... The fact that I can feel better about myself... I'm getting fuzzy thinking whether this is going to be right or not to say.
COUNSELOR: Right in what sense?
PATIENT: Partially, whether it's going to really be what I just felt. And it is... OK. I think I've got it now. I have a right to be happy (ph). I have a right to be (inaudible). I have a right to succeed. I have a right to (inaudible). And for the longest time, I denied myself that, or I felt that - or I've made myself feel a victim, and I'm not doing that as much anymore. [24:42]
I'm up, I'm dealing with things. It still ain't perfect, but it's a lot better. Even though I'm doing things like not going back to the evening job, which may financially be a bad decision. But for myself, I don't need to do that. It's too much. I'm not taking care of myself in a lot of ways by doing that, (inaudible) 'cause I hate it. I'm pretty good at it, but I hate it. And I want something else to fill that time.
COUNSELOR: So to link this up with our interaction, am I right that in some way, when I ask questions or ask you to say more about something, the risk is that I'm going to bring you down somehow? Is there some type of a fight (crosstalk)?
PATIENT: There's some of that, yeah.
COUNSELOR: Because it does feel like, I think sometimes, about the control. I think that there's some of that. Does that fit for you? That somehow... [26:00]
PATIENT: Yeah. I mean, it's like, you know. A lot of times, it's like this. I want you to ask questions, but yeah, I'm fighting more. Because...
COUNSELOR: Yeah, 'cause I remember at times you say I'm going to be jumping around, jump in there when I do that. And then, sometimes if I do, I feel kind of slapped down a little bit, like you've got to finish your thought, like that control thing. It feels hard to collaborate sometimes.
So you're saying yourself that you're aware of some kind of a conflict, kind of wanting interaction but fearing it too. (Inaudible) make sense. And right now, 'cause here we are talking about our relationship. What (inaudible).
PATIENT: I feel somewhat connected. Mentally, I think I'm looking for a place to escape to.
COUNSELOR: Yeah?
PATIENT: Yeah.
COUNSELOR: Because why? What's the feeling you want to escape from?
PATIENT: (Inaudible). It hurts to feel that I'm unhappy (ph). And it hurts to think that I'm still depressed, and I still can't give myself credit for how I am. (Crosstalk)
COUNSELOR: There was a moment where I was going to ask if you were aware of that (inaudible) right now? [28:09]
PATIENT: Um-hmm. And my habit in the past is close down and hide. And it's really what I've been doing, (inaudible), is hiding.
COUNSELOR: Keeping your heart hidden?
PATIENT: [And closed] (ph). I don't know how to deal with it (inaudible). Two weeks ago I was on the Internet, and I ran across some photos of bikers. And this may be getting off subject, but we'll see.
COUNSELOR: Is it important for me to ask? Should I inquire about getting off-subject, or should I let you go?
PATIENT: I don't know. No, let me go.
COUNSELOR: You want to go.
PATIENT: Yeah. I ran across some pictures of bikers. And one of them looked like someone that I used to see (ph). And I know that he was very homophobic. And I called him up to let him know about it. You know, it was like photos that were taken in the park, but it was on a gay site.
And so I thought, well, you should know about this, in case something happens. And so it absolutely floored me that he has come out to his parents. He has come out to his friends. And what prompted is was that he had been involved with someone for like two years or more, and the guy broke up with him. And he just couldn't... he can't deal with it. It was such an incredible loss for him. [30:07]
And I sense how that is with him. He's one of the - when he lets himself go - he is one of the most incredible, loving men I've ever been with. Just incredible. I mean, we would sometimes spend two or three hours kissing and holding on to one another. I've never had that with anybody else.
I mean, I know how David can be. And what he said, which I really thought was incredible, and I was, like, envious - this is the point of my story - I was, like, envious of it, that he could say, "You know, I finally had to talk to people (ph). I couldn't hold this in anymore.
COUNSELOR: His pain?
PATIENT: His pain. And he said, "Not that I did it totally on my own." He said, "My family became so concerned about me, like, 'What is going on with you.'" And I wish I could kind of do that. I go around with a depressed look on my face, or my mannerisms, or I hide it away. Or I think I'm hiding it away.
COUNSELOR: So there's both a wish to be able to share it more?
PATIENT: To get through it, and someone say, "I understand. You're strong enough you can get through it." It's wanting support, but so afraid that that support is going to be critical. And I know that comes from my childhood, where one minute you were being supported or praised, and the next minute I was being undercut. [32:27]
COUNSELOR: So in here, you might really wish for my encouragement and my support (inaudible) feelings (inaudible) prizes (ph). (Inaudible)
PATIENT: Yeah, unfortunately. And you haven't been that way, but my fear is still there.
COUNSELOR: And it sounds like, though, you said before, I remember you used the other (ph) joke of knocking on the door and no one was on the other side. It's like that fear of the unknown. It's like you're not sure who you can trust who won't spring out like a monster in some way.
PATIENT: Yeah. And I mean, you know, I've been though a couple of situations where I've thought I could trust someone, I thought that I was getting a real impact from, and it ended up not doing so.
COUNSELOR: It ended up not being real, deep down?
PATIENT: In a lot of ways, yeah. For instance - I don't think we talked about this. When I used to work at Anne Taylor, when I was in the fashion office, and I was an assistant to a fashion director. And we got along really well. We would occasionally have our differences (inaudible) but nothing major. [34:12]
And I thought she was supporting me. And then all of a sudden one year, I get a redo back and I'm told that they've decided, "We know we really have to be honest with you. We don't think you're a notable (ph)." And that just totally pulled the carpet out from under me.
It was like a great deal of what I did and how I reacted was to support her and her ideas. And then it turned around on me that I didn't have the (inaudible), but I was supporting what she was directing me to do. And if I tried to assert myself, then that's where the difference of opinion would often come.
COUNSELOR: It looks like you start to fizzle (ph) (inaudible) sad news (inaudible).
PATIENT: [One of the most gruesome] (ph) And I suppose in a lot of ways I ran away from that. Because when that happened, I decided to transfer to another job, which was a disaster. Oh God, what a disaster. And it also fed into my fear that I wasn't good enough for the job. I mean, I knew there were problems. [35:59]
And I knew that I wasn't assertive as I should have been, et cetera. But it also hurt that someone did that, and that somebody I really felt I trusted. Because, like, maybe two months before I (inaudible) we were thumping, and she even commented, like, I was the best assistant she ever had. And maybe that was it. I was a good assistant. But that's not where I was in (inaudible) to.
COUNSELOR: So you really felt let down as a (inaudible). The reward -
PATIENT: And I ended up feeling used in a lot of ways.
COUNSELOR: Is there any way that in here, the worry is that - of following what I intended, that you'll... 'cause if that - it seems like we were talking a little bit about control and trust. I wonder if it feels sometimes like following my lead, my questions, as kind of a risk? That you won't get what you need out of it? You'll be taking care of me rather than yourself? [37:41]
PATIENT: It may be.
COUNSELOR: You make it sound like it (inaudible) exactly, though.
PATIENT: It's part of also - I'm questioning, like, is that really it?
COUNSELOR: Well, there's an example of where - I appreciate that you're trying to go this route, but both (ph) an example of I feel like I'm trying hard to understand and it never quite hits. I wonder - because I feel like I'm not doing a good enough job understanding, because I don't hit the mark somehow.
PATIENT: Let me jump in. I think... When you said about I may be afraid of following your agenda, then what happens for me within that questioning process is, "Oh God, am I really like that? Am I really afraid of her agenda? Do I not trust her that much? Where are you going? [39:26]
And then I have to think, well, that does sound a little negative. And if I'm that way, then that's not very good. But, on the other hand, I'm thinking well, yeah. There is a certain amount of truth to it. But what do I want to acknowledge to myself? That second thought, yeah, I probably am like that, is a much stronger need to say, "Yes, I probably am like that." But there's so much of me that does the questioning part. And so I think that helps contribute to the distance.
COUNSELOR: That you question, that you sort of scrutinize that idea.
PATIENT: Yeah.
COUNSELOR: It's not like your kind of immediate reaction is one of - the feeling level is kind of recognition, "Oh yeah, that's kind of true."
PATIENT: Yeah. But that also...
COUNSELOR: You don't want it to be true.
PATIENT: No. Because it sounds very hard and manipulative. To me.
COUNSELOR: It sounds like you're hard and... Or that...
PATIENT: Yes. No, that I am.
COUNSELOR: And does it also sound like a - like, is that part of the... it sounds like it's a criticism that I'm making? (Inaudible at 41:04)
PATIENT: Just a tiny bit. No. The way you presented it was like, "All right. There's kind of this weight (ph) and there's kind of this weight (ph)." And we go back and forth. You didn't say - you won't let me get my point across, et cetera.
You won't let me help you, or take you where I think you should be going. No. You presented it much differently. But I hear it more in the sense that... It is more like guilt, that's what I'm hearing from myself. Like, "Oh my God, do I do that? That's horrible."
COUNSELOR: You judge it as horrible.
PATIENT: Right. Because I'm thinking you're thinking that also. I guess that's where the criticism comes in, not in the way that you present it, per s�, but in what you may be thinking.
COUNSELOR: Or that I might be angry at you for...
PATIENT: Yeah.
COUNSELOR: Like being reluctant or hesitant about following my lead?
PATIENT: Uh-huh. Yeah.
COUNSELOR: I think sometimes I do feel frustrated. Because from where I sit, I feel like I'm wanting to understand, and sort of reach you for us to have (ph) some understanding. So when I put something out I feel like it's an effort to understand, and you react by saying, "I don't know if that's really it, da da da," and then I sort of end up feeling, "Oh shit. I can't do it right." So I sort of... So yeah, I think there is some frustration. [43:28]
But it's not so much that, the idea that you would be anxious or reluctant to follow my lead like, that, understanding that I don't feel critical or angry at you for that.
PATIENT: Just frustrated.
COUNSELOR: Well, I feel frustrated in the moment, not in terms of - I don't feel frustrated like, "Oh, you're that way, that's awful, I'm angry at you." I think in the moment a feeling like I can't do something. It's sort of, I think, because my own experience is like, "Oh. I'm not doing a good enough job here." And it sounds like you get caught in some things somehow. But how is it for me to say that I sometimes feel frustrated? I mean, is that... (inaudible)? How does that make you feel?
PATIENT: As I said, I know I can put up blocks in terms of keeping people out. And I can understand it from the point of view like, where do we go from here? For you, like saying, "OK. Where do I go from here?" And me questioning that, and getting my answer back, "I don't know. I'm scared to go in there."
COUNSELOR: You're scared (crosstalk)? [45:15]
PATIENT: Or I've been over it before. And depending on what my mood is for the day, I may not want to go over it again. I'm stubborn. I can be very stubborn. I'm aware of that. I try to deal with it, but I also know I can be very stubborn, and I can put up real blocks. (Inaudible). Sometimes that bullheadedness gets me through the situation, other times it doesn't. It gets me in trouble.
COUNSELOR: Well, it sounds like there's a fighting spirit there. I mean, when you say you're stubborn, I hear something very... I don't know what the right word is, but... (Crosstalk)
PATIENT: Well, I know I can be tenacious at times, and I can push for things that I want.
COUNSELOR: Or what you don't want.
PATIENT: Or what I don't want. Probably more what I don't want (inaudible) than what I do want, 'cause I'm afraid of what I (inaudible).
COUNSELOR: You don't want, or what you're afraid is going to be hurtful. I mean, I do hear that. There's a lot of fear. So you get discouraged when you sort of address the fear, but then, you kind of got discouraged (inaudible). [47:17]
PATIENT: Yeah. It's also I'm tired today. Because I'm tired and my defenses (ph) are down in a lot of ways.
COUNSELOR: So I'm getting a good day out of you (chuckles).
PATIENT: Well, it seems to me that comment flows into what we've been talking about. Maybe I'm a little stubborn today. I'm allowing myself to feel things a little (inaudible).
COUNSELOR: (Inaudible). And that's was what you were saying. It's so hard for you to let anybody see your heart (ph). And to allow yourself to (inaudible) your heart. So it looks like you're feeling it today. I wonder how (inaudible) it is for me to be in touch with it while you're here. [48:30]
PATIENT: It's a little risky. It's also a little comforting. I suppose the comfort comes in recognizing what the feelings are that I have. Like realizing there's a certain hurt I feel, there's a certain sadness that I feel. And I've gone through that and I still have that to a sense.
But I've also kind of gotten through it. I'm still scared of it, but I've kind of gotten through it, and I'm scared that I'm going to go back there, but I'm scared that I just covered it up for a while.
COUNSELOR: You're scared right now of going back there, do you feel?
PATIENT: Yeah. Somewhat.
COUNSELOR: Because it feels so powerful?
PATIENT: Yeah, I think so. I don't want to go back to the point of sleeping like 12 or 14 hours a day, and depressed sleep. [50:03]
COUNSELOR: And to feel the worry that if you allow yourself to - if you're feeling the hurt that'll lead you to that kind of place, being depressed and sleeping a lot?
PATIENT: Yeah, that's a part of it. Or I think part of it is also just admitting to it. Admitting to it, and trying to change the habit. And I think that's why goals are difficult for me, because the expectation's there. I have to change this habit.
COUNSELOR: Well, what's the habit you're talking about? I feel like we're talking about your heart. What's the habit?
PATIENT: The habit, I suppose, is that I nurse that hurt a lot. I won't give it up.
COUNSELOR: You nurse it?
PATIENT: I feel bad about myself. I know I have a certain amount of self-pity. I know that I'm afraid to go out and try new things, in a lot of ways, or to make new friends, to go out and be sociable. It's easier for me to stay in my apartment and feel sad about things. Isolate myself.
COUNSELOR: What seems to be the hiding your heart? (Crosstalk)
PATIENT: Well, to me in a certain way, that kind of, like getting into it in the sense that I'm not like (inaudible) people see it.
COUNSELOR: It kind of seems to me like we don't even... This feels somewhat new. I mean, I've seen you be somewhat sad and hurt before, and I look and see those times, but it does feel - I mean, I'm very aware of... I (ph) feel like, connected with you. There's something very real about where you are. And what strikes me about what you say about this to yourself is that... [52:33]
It feels new enough to me like I don't even understand. I feel like I want to know more about the hurt, 'cause it seems to me like you're talking about some way in which you nurse it, or you abuse it. I guess it almost feels like you feel like you should be over it before we even understand it.
PATIENT: Sure. Of course. You know, I don't want to admit that I'm really hurt that (inaudible).
COUNSELOR: Because what is it (inaudible) admitting (inaudible)? To me? [53:21]
PATIENT: A little bit, yeah.
COUNSELOR: Because (crosstalk)?
PATIENT: It makes me feel like a failure.
COUNSELOR: Oh yeah? (inaudible)
PATIENT: Well, I think because the hurt, the way I view the hurt has come through failing (inaudible). And part of that also seems like not being understood. I suppose that feels like a certain failure to me.
COUNSELOR: Like you should - it's your responsibility.
PATIENT: Right. Responsibility I put on myself. At times I put it on other people, but it feels much more like, well, I'm the one who's at fault here.
COUNSELOR: I guess what I'm picking up on is a lot of disappointment.
PATIENT: Yeah.
COUNSELOR: And hurt, and not getting what you need or what was promised, and what your disappointment (inaudible at 54:26)
PATIENT: And within that, a great deal, I think is this needing this part of myself, that I don't give (ph) myself what I need. I don't give myself the kind of stable, productive, the word is maybe input that I need to be giving to myself. You know, (inaudible) lots of other things. It occurred to me walking over here today, right now I feel like I'm in an abusive work situation in certain ways. [55:29]
Not just me, all of it. Because the (inaudible) is unbelievable. And to a certain way, I'm flourishing. I'm used to that. I worked in retail for ages, I was used to that, the (inaudible) thing from the (inaudible) and what was expected of me. So that's my patterning.
And when I pad it the other way, I haven't known how to deal with it. My point being, I'm working so much harder there, I'm giving that company so much more than what I'm doing for myself.
For like two or three weeks there, I was working about nine, ten hours a day for them, and it occurred to me to go back after this and go work, 'cause I've got projects there done (ph). A part of that is because I want to succeed at what I'm doing, and in the back of my mind is I'll be recognized for it. I probably won't be recognized for it.
COUNSELOR: But that's a real longing. [56:43]
PATIENT: Yeah. In the same way that I perceive the kind of men that I [deal with] (ph), I think. I think I'm going to give them a lot and I think it's going to be recognized, and it's not. You know, I'm better at both. I'm better at realizing. This is the work situation. And I'm better at realizing who I may be involved with, just how much they can do. But I still continue to do the same thing. Not as much, it doesn't take me as long to get out of an (crosstalk) situation.
COUNSELOR: But it's really you are to blame, and then what's really striking to me how the anger and the disappointment comes in (inaudible) not with the other. And I think there's something safer about being angry with yourself. It can be paralyzing.
PATIENT: Yeah. Well, I think it's like growing up. I couldn't be mad at my parents; I wasn't allowed to be mad at my parents. I wasn't allowed to be furious at my father's (inaudible). Even though I got a mixed message from my mother, I was supposed to love my father. But at the same time, I know how angry she was that [Bill was] (ph) drinking. [58:28]
But I wasn't really allowed to be angry. And it's my fault, and I think that (inaudible). Anything wrong on the farm was my fault, which led to my father's drinking, which was my fault... The tension and the stress that my father was under, and...
COUNSELOR: Well, it sounds like things were pretty volatile and sensitive to going one way of maybe having a measure of control was for you to be the source of the problem. (Inaudible).
PATIENT: Yeah, I suppose so. I'm also just thinking - well, I suppose it was. It was like, probably the process would be I'd want to escape from it. Once I escaped from it, then that feeling was much more, "Well, it's my fault." [60:11]
COUNSELOR: Was you escaped from...
PATIENT: My father's anger. It was escaping to the corner (inaudible) and hiding, the barn and hiding for a while. And getting out on the tractor in the field and the physical separation.
COUNSELOR: And were you escaping your own anger as well, at him?
PATIENT: Probably, yeah. And that is where I turned it in to my fantasy. (Inaudible at 60:43). And I was on the tractor, I was on a boat going somewhere. (Inaudible). And I've thought about that, and it kind of got subsided. My anger.
COUNSELOR: So I'm thinking, for you to have told me that this therapy was good but not great, you're letting me know that that felt a little risky. I'm wondering, you're letting me know what some of your disappointment is about getting what you hoped for (inaudible). That feels risky. I notice your eyes shifting right now as though (crosstalk).
PATIENT: Sure it does, because I feel guilty about it.
COUNSELOR: You feel guilty?
PATIENT: Sure. Because it's also like, "Oh, I didn't do enough." It could have been different.
COUNSELOR: Well, so, you turn it on yourself.
PATIENT: Yeah. If I had done more, it could have been different.
COUNSELOR: So what happens there? You turn it on yourself. (Inaudible). ...something that feels unsafe about holding on to your disappointment. It seems like there's never been room for you to really have your disappointment when you're angry at somebody. (Inaudible at 62:25).
PATIENT: It's risky.
COUNSELOR: Yeah, I know it is. And I know that even if I might say I'd like to (inaudible) you'd like that, but I'm sure that doesn't make it safe or easy. But I guess I just wanted... I'm really filled with a sense of how important that is. (Inaudible) to feel so right to those feelings. [63:39]
PATIENT: It's just hard for me to... Right now I'm sitting here and saying, "OK, did I say that in (inaudible) or did I say that as anger?"
COUNSELOR: Say what thing?
PATIENT: About the therapy. You know, it's like I'm probably trying to make it safe for you. I'm afraid I've disappointed you in saying that.
COUNSELOR: Well, if anything, I think you've pleased me, because I feel like it's a point where we can reach (ph). It feels real.
PATIENT: (Inaudible).
COUNSELOR: Real is risky. Well, I can respect that. But I'd hope that you could have some real. (Inaudible). And then, to know what's real for you is... It feels good for you to know that. It feels different than when we're - as we talked about before, kind of spiraling around on something (ph). Maybe it is more tense, that there's something about it being real that's... at least for me, in a sense. [65:46]
PATIENT: Probably the issue's more defined.
COUNSELOR: It's clearer. (Inaudible) but that's part of the risk, I think, of being more direct. OK, so this (ph) time work for you? This is going to be good?
PATIENT: Yeah.
COUNSELOR: OK. So... Good. [66:11]
END TRANSCRIPT
