TRANSCRIPT OF AUDIO FILE:
__________________________________________________________________________________
BEGIN TRANSCRIPT:
COUNSELOR: This is client 1923-018. Session number 10. March 2nd, 1971.
PATIENT: Did you ever hear of the dance called "The Football?"
COUNSELOR: No, I never heard of it.
PATIENT: I don't know why; everybody around here has heard of it. I learned how to do it Saturday night and when you do the dance, you do it up and down, like the knee bends and you use all these muscles here and here.
COUNSELOR: And you are all stiff.
PATIENT: I was out at my parents' house this weekend. I am trying to...I sit down on the couch and I get up off the couch. I am trying not to bear on my muscles. I tried to bowl last night and it was (inaudible 1:20). I was going to - in order to keep from getting upset with myself - just telling myself it doesn't really matter. This is a situation that does not call for any anxieties or getting upset or anything. And actually, I drove out to my parents' house Friday night and it was raining Friday night. I drove out to my parents' house Friday night and so I looked at the time - I usually do - and it was six o'clock but I knew it would take a little bit longer because it was raining so traffic - the rush hour - gets extended a lot. But I get right in the middle of it - it was really extended - and I found myself...I wasn't thinking about being calm and I wasn't thinking about not letting things bother me. I wasn't really in a daze; I was sort of in a daze. I wasn't really thinking about anything, you know, going along on an even keel driving. All of a sudden I realized I was doing this and that I was being very calm about this whole mess that was all around me. I thought: "Gee, I bet have I already started." And a couple of times I started to get upset and I thought: "No, no - I am not going to get upset. You don't need to get upset - it doesn't call for it." And I made it all the way out to, like, three miles from my parents' house - three or four miles from my parents' house - and this stupid girl did some really stupid jerky stops. I got upset and I kept on telling myself: "Don't get upset; you are alright. Nobody was hurt. Just because she is driving dumb. She could have got a lot of people killed but she didn't. Everybody came through it fine." Then I am arguing with myself. A sign of great intelligence when you argue with yourself, you know. 0:03:41.5
COUNSELOR: You were trying to tell yourself not to let it get to you.
PATIENT: No, I am saying: "Don't let it get to me." 
COUNSELOR: But it was obviously getting to you already, right?
PATIENT: Then I am asking myself questions. I realized that was what I was doing, was literally having an out-loud argument with myself in my car. They would really put me away if they heard me doing that (chuckles). I am saying: "Yeah, but there are some situations when no matter how calm and cool you are, one must get a little bit upset because this calls for getting upset." I am like: "Now don't get upset - it is not worth it." And I was saying to myself: "Yeah, but she was really stupid and I cannot help it." I was fairly calm on the way on the trip out - on most of the trip out there. Ordinarily, I would have been anxious. I wouldn't have been yelling at anybody or anything because it would not have done any good. If it is your car and maybe a car in front of you and a car in front of him and nobody in front of him - and you know if somebody is dinking around, going slow - then I get more uptight than if I know that there is absolutely nothing that you can do about it. There are 10 cars ahead of you and they cannot go any place either. Usually what happens is I don't get anxious, like: "Come on, let us go, let us go." But I get nervous. I slowly build up this great nervous tension. But I was this calm person all the way out and I kept trying to tell myself - when something would aggravate me...like the closer I got to home, I guess the traffic started breaking up a little more. We were going a little faster . When I am going two miles an hour and somebody is in one lane and stops and tries to cut into mine, I don't usually mind; I usually let them. I usually stop and let them in. It doesn't make, you know...difference in time and everything it make. I am usually anxious about time - "I want to get there; I want to get there" - so I try when I am driving to say: " It is going to make one minute difference about what time you get there." 0:06:11.6
COUNSELOR: To tell yourself that you don't have to get upset.
PATIENT: Right. I tried that but fine, I just kind of like, you know, mentally slapped myself on the hand and said: "Don't do that." But it is a reaction and I don't know if it is going to take...it is like something I got to...it seems like something you need to catch before you do it - be able to catch it before you do it. Because you are sitting there and telling yourself afterwards: "Don't do it."
COUNSELOR: Yeah, that is just like getting more upset and wound into it.
PATIENT: Well, no, I didn't get upset with myself because I kept getting upset. Fortunately, I didn't do that. I was getting a little frustrated, you know. I am of the opinion that if I don't want to do something - I want to make myself quick doing something - then I should be able to. I have found recently that just because I think I ought to be able to do something doesn't necessarily mean I can do it. Even when I was so serene and calm when I was on the Dan Ryan - which was a mess - but I was really calm and it didn't bother me. I think if this chick had been doing this stuff - the same tricks - I wouldn't just...she was going real fast. What was happening was...alright, she was the first person in the passing lane and I was the second person and there were about 10 cars behind me. The speed limit is 45 and she is doing about 45 and then all of a sudden - for no reason at all - she slows down to about 25 miles an hour. There are cars in this lane, so nobody could go into the other lane. There was no place you could go and all of a sudden she just slams on her brakes and gets down to about 25 miles an hour and proceeds to take her foot off the brake and just creep. Now, I wasn't prepared for her to slam on her brakes. She didn't just put them on - she slammed them on. If she put them on slowly, okay, I could have put them on slowly, thinking she was going to turn but she just slammed on her brakes. There was nothing in front of her; I wasn't expecting her to slam on her brakes. I almost hit her and the guy behind me almost hit me. We almost had a nice big pile up and then she just proceeded to go 25 miles and hour in a 45 mile an hour zone. She wasn't really meaning; she just didn't know where she...she didn't know where she wanted to go I think is what happened. What happens is...they are putting a brand new, super expressway highway through and where there used to be a bridge, everybody is down there and you have to go down and do a great big triangle thing to get back on the road you were on! And maybe she had never been on there before: maybe there is a perfectly logical excuse but in a situation like that, you may be a little bit upset about it.
COUNSELOR: How else are you supposed to react? 0:08:56.8
PATIENT: You may be a little...I remember the first time...I was aware and I hadn't been home for years; for two years - I even came home this way from college. I would drive down this road and there was always a bridge; and I went over the bridge and made a right hand turn; and that went to my parents' house. I had been out here one weekend and I did it the same way and the next week I came out and all of sudden the bridge was gone and you are making these little...okay, I wasn't expecting it, so you slow down maybe - but you don't slam on your brakes. She didn't slam on her brakes right in front of the place; she was about maybe half a mile back where the sign is. And she says: "Oh my God; what am I going to do? How am I going to get off this road." Just total panic.
COUNSELOR: I suppose if you are of that nature it is understandable but she could have killed a lot of people.
PATIENT: This is something that aggravates me; people who don't think when they are driving. And so I was really getting mad. I am sitting there trying...that is when I started arguing with myself: "No, you don't need to get upset about it: everything will work out fine." But people like that shouldn't be allowed to drive (chuckles).
COUNSELOR: You are trying to, sort of, slip back into that type of style that you were talking about before where you are accepting things but the way that girl was driving was just too much for you.
PATIENT: Yeah, I am trying to say that it doesn't matter and I am also saying... I was kind of defending myself. I am a great one for defending myself in any situation, you know. I may not be trying to tell everybody I am right. When I defend myself I am not trying to, you know...defending yourself doesn't necessarily mean you are telling anybody you are right; you are just defending your...telling them why you did what you did. When I am defending myself; I am a great one for defending myself. I was defending myself against myself though. I was saying: "Well, there are certain situations when one cannot help but get upset." But I am trying not to get upset. I was trying to do that last night when I was bowling. I was trying to say: "It is just a game. You have bowled bad before: if you bowl bad this time, the people are not going to really be upset. They would like it if you bowled well because it helps the team but have they ever yelled at you or said anything to make you feel bad when you bowl bad? No. Well then, don't worry about it. Just get up there and try to bowl."
COUNSELOR: Did it work?
PATIENT: No.
COUNSELOR: You still got upset. 
PATIENT: Yeah. I sort of calmed down in the third frame and I started bowling really well. Then, I didn't get cocky. Sometimes when I bowl a couple of good balls I start to get cocky and my game just starts to fall apart but this time it didn't happen. This time, I don't know what happened. It wasn't getting cocky and I wasn't...I don't know. I am not sure why I started bowling bad but I had a couple of frames...I did dumb things that I shouldn't have done. I was concentrating more and more on another thing, I think. I let the people around me bother me. I cannot bowl if I know there is somebody else standing right in the lane next to me and they are going to bowl, and I know they are waiting for me. 0:12:18.5
COUNSELOR: Mmm-hmm.
PATIENT: And it is a combination of knowing that they are waiting for me and wondering if they are going to go ahead and bowl ahead of me. I really am kind of freaked bowling, waiting for people. I can bowl much better if I don't have to worry about anybody. One of the strike balls I threw...everybody...we were on our ninth frame and everybody else had finished their tenth frame and we were all kind of gathering around Andy adding up scores and seeing who won. There wasn't anybody else up there bowling and I walked up and did my strike. I didn't have to wait for anybody: I didn't have to worry about it. You just cannot stand there and wait until everybody bowls because when everybody bowls, there are going to be people behind the bowl, you just stand there all night and wait for everybody to bowl before you throw a ball. So you get started, get in there and bowl. That makes me nervous and I was trying to tell myself: "You know, don't worry about it." I was getting upset. I think I was getting upset with myself because I couldn't do it. I kept making dumb mistakes. I would twist my hand wrong and do something wrong. I keep trying to logically reason with myself because There is no logical reason why I should be a good bowler. I only bowl once a week, unless I get a chance to bowl on the weekends. I was going to go bowling Sunday but my legs hurt so bad I cannot stand up! Okay, so there is not reason why I should be this fantastic bowler, especially only bowling as little as I do. I do fairly well. When I really concentrate and think about it, I do think I can do very well. And there are people who have been bowling for years who don't much that much better than I do. A couple of times this weekend I was trying to tell myself: "Just be calm and don't let it bother you."
COUNSELOR: Let it slide back into the way you felt that morning.
PATIENT: I felt that morning...
COUNSELOR: Remember the green Bear Cooler (ph)! 0:14:55.8
PATIENT: I saw that green Bear Cooler today. I had a totally different reaction to it this morning as I was walking to work. I saw the green Bear Cooler and I said: "Gee, there is that car again - it is a really nice looking car." Just, you know, appreciation of it, of course, but not ecstatically. Actually, the reason I am not quite as ecstatic is because I saw another one which is even...it is not...I cannot find one that is in my color. I saw a car: it was a really nice looking car; I don't know what it was. I think it was some Ford product about half a block away. A white top and my color green; light color green - that is my color - on the bonnet.
COUNSELOR: So it was really perfect.
PATIENT: It was just the perfect color. Wrong kind of car but perfect color. I wouldn't have a Ford. I wouldn't have a Chevy and I wouldn't have a Ford.
COUNSELOR: Those other things you keep trying to tell yourself, you know, it is not reasonable to be upset like this. This thing isn't worth being upset about. Take it easy.
PATIENT: But the only thing is, is that it doesn't really calm me down.
COUNSELOR: You say it and it doesn't...
PATIENT: If I am serious about it and I try to logically reason with myself.
COUNSELOR: It is perfectly logical and it doesn't calm you down one iota.
PATIENT: No, it is so silly and I don't know why it doesn't calm me down. I am trying to think of one other time - one other time it happened when I was trying to use this. I probably wouldn't have thought of it if I hadn't realized that I was so calm when I was driving out. All of a sudden, I realized: "I am sitting here quite calm." And I wasn't that tired or anything: I wasn't just sitting there. I was wide awake and calm, listening to music - which is a pleasant feeling. I wasn't nervous or anything. Just telling myself that I should be calm and there is nothing really to worry about does not really help me calm down. I haven't used it that much. Maybe the more I use it, the more I think about it, the more it will help. But I don't think about it all of the time. Just like, all of a sudden I will get upset and then I will remember that I am not supposed to get upset and then I will start thinking: "Alright, now, let us look at this logically." Then I have these arguments with myself.
COUNSELOR: You should have been a debater! You are always very logical and you are always still upset anyway.
PATIENT: Yeah.
COUNSELOR: It is frustrating because no matter how logical you are, it doesn't work. 0:18:04.1
PATIENT: It is just kind hard to understand. I don't why I do these things. After I have once explained it to myself quite logically, I would think that I was (inaudible 18:21) but I don't. It is very frustrating. I am still trying to think of another situation where I tried to use this and it just didn't work. I don't know if I...I don't know what it is, I really don't: why I react wrong. 
COUNSELOR: Because it seems unnecessary and not the way one could expect people to react. 
PATIENT: What?
COUNSELOR: What I was saying is...excuse me, I am a little foggy from being up too early in the morning.
PATIENT: Yeah, I am sorry about that!
COUNSELOR: Just that you feel like it ought to work and it is not reasonable that it shouldn't.
PATIENT: I am not sure if it is just human nature or why I would...logically speaking - I keep saying logically speaking - I am not really that logical of a person. I can think logically - semi-logically - but a logician wouldn't claim me. 
COUNSELOR: Ordinary common sense type logic.
PATIENT: Right, yeah. It just seems logical to me that if...I should be able to calm myself down. Now I suppose I would also...part of the problem could be saying that this is going to be the simplest thing - it will take a lot of time. The first time I practice this, it is not just going to happen. You have got to practice being calm. I guess that is probably the reason I am feeling some pressure; probably I am expecting it to work too fast. It is something that I am going to have to work on for a while. So before I give up I guess I will try a couple more times. I just get so frustrated. I can understand getting somebody... you know, if I was riding in the car with somebody. If somebody is riding in the car with me, where I was getting into this situation and somebody came up to me, and was telling me all the things I was trying to tell myself, where I might just for personal pride's sake or personal vendetta or something, react, you know, the way I do. It is kind of, like, ignore what I am saying . It is not that I ignore what I am saying; it is just that the next time it happens I have the same reaction. I would probably listen to somebody, but it is just like in one ear and out the other. 0:21:48.4
COUNSELOR: At least as far as changing what you do the next time.
PATIENT: Well, yeah. I can understand maybe why I maybe might not listen or not really take to heart the words of somebody else. I really want to be calm and I really don't want to get so excited about everything. I don't want to get so upset about things that I ...I don't want to take myself so seriously and yet I keep on doing it. And the only person telling me not to is me. I have had other people say: "You know, you are just taking yourself too seriously: just don't worry about it." And my question in my mind when they say that was: "Okay, fine, you are right - I know you are. So how do I do this?"
COUNSELOR: It is easy to say it but...
PATIENT: I guess I am kind of the same way actually to myself. I am not sure: " You are right and I know you are right." But how do I go about not taking myself so seriously. I think maybe calming myself down. I was thinking about the possibility of taking tranquillizers or something to calm myself down but that doesn't work. My Mom is hooked on tranquillizers. When I was about 12-years-old, she almost had a nervous breakdown and the doctors started her on tranquillizers and she has been taking them ever since. She has been taking one in the morning and one at night. I really think being around my Mom and everything has been part of the things that makes me worse. I mean, not being around my Mom: I am not any more nervous when I am around my mom than when I am not around my Mom. Being with my Mom over a long period of time, I kind of like inherited - even though I am adopted; it is not in the bloodline or anything - but through environment, you know. So I have inherited a lot of her traits; a lot of her hang ups. 0:24:00.2
COUNSELOR: So, like, somehow or other you have sort of picked them up. What hang-ups of hers have you picked up?
PATIENT: Well, first of, her nerves.
COUNSELOR: Like getting excited about little things?
PATIENT: She doesn't so much get excited about little things; she is more calm - she is just nervous all of the time. She is more even keel though. Oh gee, Mom and I have discussed this before. We both realize that I do have a lot of...stupid things like, you know, well, I will go along, just like oblivious of dangers in the world, you know, and all of a sudden she will say: "Don't do that, it is dangerous." And I will say: "Oh, pish-posh." And she was talking about it and talking about it and citing me examples from people she has heard of - of all the things where doing this has got them into trouble. And all of a sudden, I have this big hang-up about it.
COUNSELOR: You start to get fearful; you have heard it often enough to disturb you.
PATIENT: Yeah, I start to get fearful and then I got a hang-up about it. I really clutch when I think about it. I used to, when I was a kid - when I was a teenager and I was driving - I had a girlfriend who lived over Albany and I lived down Brighton Beach and between Brighton and Albany - at that time there were buildings and factories and houses and everything, but in time there was nothing there, just this little crummy old road that didn't have any houses on it or anything out in the middle of nowhere. It ran by the airport. I used to take that road home at 12.30 - 1.00 in the morning - this was probably the first year of college too - and I had the windows open and the doors unlocked and everything and didn't think a thing about it. And my Mom starts telling me: "Now you be careful when you drive home from Sarah's house because people will start running you off the roads." And stuff like this, you know. "People will try and run you off the road." And I am like: "Mom, I never even pass a car when I am coming home at one o'clock in the morning on this road. Nobody even knows it exists except me. Don't worry about it. I have been doing this for years; don't worry about it." And then she gets to: "Well listen, don't bet on it." She works for Delta and she was a nurse and she knew one of the nurses who she worked with who used to be a stewardess who knew a lot of stewardesses. And then evidently, there was this stewardess who had gotten run off the road. so now not only do I lock my doors and windows, but every car - I think I am super paranoid about it - every car I see...
COUNSELOR: You start to get a little (inaudible 26:59)
PATIENT: I watch him, yeah, I watch him. Is he going too fast? Is he coming up on me fast? He is coming up on me awful fast; is he going to pass me? And if he starts to pass me, is he going to get half way around and start to ruin me off the road? This super clutch. 0:27:13.9
COUNSELOR: What I get out of all this: it is like you are saying: "I used to have this simple, natural reasonable relationship with things and now she has sort of roused all these fears.
PATIENT: Most of the hang-ups I have are fears that my Mom has aroused about different things and I am not saying that it is wrong to be aware that these things can happen because ignorance is not always bliss; it can get you into a lot of trouble. But I don't go from being ignorant to being aware; I go from being ignorant to being afraid. I cannot just be aware of these things to the point where you cannot drive down the road and feel comfortable. The same way, I sometimes...I have never had any problem with living in Central Park at all. Well, we have had some problems but I have never had any. I have lived here for almost two years. I never had any problem: when I first moved down here, I used to do things; I would park my car...oh, supposedly the worst place you can be at night is over in the Plaza and I used to come home from wherever I was at one, two, three o'clock in the morning, park my car at the shopping center and not worry about it; get out of my car and walk over to my apartment - didn't bother me a bit, you know. And now, every time something happened, my Mom would call me up: "Did you hear about what happened down there?" And I would keep telling Mom...it wouldn't be near where I live but it stays in the mind - all of these little things. Down to the point that every time I get out of the car, I would be looking around to see if anybody is near me.
COUNSELOR: It is like this stuff just stays in your mind and you can't get rid of it.
PATIENT: Again, it is a situation where one should be cautious but you don't need to be afraid. I was not cautious at all. I would go out of my apartment and go out to the liquor store at 11 o'clock at night. Just get up and walk over there, which is not a wise thing to do - it really isn't. I was totally oblivious. You can be cautious and just not do things like that but I will get out of my car to go in by my apartment sometimes. I would go over and sign the theology bills. Like, the only people that live around in my immediate area - where I live right now - are usually theology students from Lutheran Theology School. Most of the buildings around there are owned by the school or leased by the school. Most of the people living in my area go to there - the theology school. And if you can't trust somebody going to a theology school, you just might as well forget the whole thing - the world is gone! 0:30:35.7
COUNSELOR: Yeah.
PATIENT: But, you know, I get super reactions to things. I cannot just be cautious - I need to be afraid. Anytime my mother starts to warn me about something I don't want to hear about it. "I don't need anymore fears, dear. Don't talk to me. If you want to talk about something pleasant, fine. If you are going to warn me about something, forget it!" These are like fears that I have got but I have super reactions to things she says. My dad could be warning me about something all day but I wouldn't have the same reaction. somebody else could warn me about something...you could warn me; you could say something about Central Park or something and I would probably react with keeping it in my mind and caution. But when my Mom tells me something, I am afraid of it. She says: "Be afraid and watch."
COUNSELOR: It really sinks in or it comes with some sort of an extra little jolt of anxiety or something when she says it.
PATIENT: It is not that I wouldn't remember what somebody else says or take it to heart and be cautious about it. I would give it a thought and I would say "fine" and I would put it in the back of my mind as something to watch out for just in case. If a situation came up, all of a sudden it would flash at the back in my mind: "Well, this is what you do: in a situation like this, do such and so. Or if I was approaching a situation, a flash in my mind: "This is a situation you do not want to get into." I wouldn't be looking for it and expecting it to happen and worrying about it not happening and everything. I won't even let my Mom come in on my driving anymore. She will say something like: "Drive carefully on the way home tonight; it is bad weather outside." And then I am, you know: "Oh wow, I am going to have an accident - I know I am going to have an accident!" 0:33:00.1
COUNSELOR: I don't know: there is some kind of power because she says it.
PATIENT: It is really strange because I don't do it with my father at all. I don't even listen to him when he says something, I must admit! I guess what it is, is the fact that my Mom...my Dad gets very excited about things. He gets easily excited. He gets mad fast and he gets over it just that [clicks her fingers] fast. He is not always calm - Mom is not always calm - but Dad will...he gets mad fast. He flies off the handle easily and then it is over. My Mom's ideas come from emotions and my Dad's ideas come from emotions but they are two different things. My Dad's things that he says about don't do this and don't do that are usually fairly illogical and just feelings that he has. They are usually fairly illogical and they are not well thought out and his reaction wouldn't be the same another time. They are not well founded. They may be true but the way he comes about them is not well founded so I just don't worry about the things that he says. But my Mom is fairly...her words may come out of love and just worry for me - love for me and worry for me - and situations that she has heard and stuff but she doesn't like fly off the handle when she says these things; it is calmly said and she has got a lot of common sense and therefore I put a lot of stock in what she says. I always have. Dad never tried to understand kids; he always used to assume that they were just the same as he was when he was a kid. Basically, kids are kids but they have different approaches to doing things. My Mom isn't always understood but she is always (inaudible 35:17). And so, therefore I equate with her a greater understanding; a greater knowledge or something. She says something... She doesn't just say it to hear herself talk or anything.
COUNSELOR: I think I see what you mean. It is like she has made a really serious effort: she has thought about things; she has made an effort to understand. She is not just whipping something off: she has worked on that for you so it is not like something you can brush off. 0:35:52.9
PATIENT: Right, yeah - right. Something that I just automatically take very seriously. She has realized now so she won't say anything when she feels like it - unless it just absolutely has to be said.
COUNSELOR: In a way it is because she cares for you.
PATIENT: I know the reason; there is no malice intended.
COUNSELOR: It is because she cares for you that you take it so seriously - and even over-seriously.
PATIENT: The work that she has put into it and the care coming out - the love coming out - I react in kind. But sometimes I just don't want to talk to her because I know she is going to give me another hang-up! I guess one of the things I would like to be is calm: every once in a while I am calm. I would just like to be calm. Not that I would get so calm that I wouldn't worry about anything. I think if I could calm myself down and not get so uptight about things, I wouldn't get so uptight about everything and I would probably be happier. I would almost like to get to the point of being spacey, like that one morning when I was totally spaced. And I really enjoyed that, just: "Ahh, eww." Flexible: that is an enjoyable feeling but it is going all over the place. That is how I would like to be in social situations - that is how I would like to be. Then when I am working, I would need to be more serious. There is nothing wrong in social situations with being like that - in any social situation - unless you are at the Governor's Ball or something. 
COUNSELOR: But otherwise that is the only good way to act because what is a social situation for? You are supposed to be enjoying yourself and that is enjoying yourself.
PATIENT: Right, and there are no hassles - and I can't assume that. I went out...Jess and I went out on Saturday and we were talking about something rather intently and there was this one guy sitting down next to me and I just took one look at him and went on talking because he was really...well, he wasn't my type shall we say, just to be nice about it. He was creepy. I am going to be nice about it - he just wasn't my type. We were just continuing talking and everything and this guy, who was really cute, walked up and asked me if I wanted to dance. (Inaudible 39:10) fell off the chair and he just appeared out of nowhere and asked: "Would you like to dance?" "Yeah." I had to think about it for a minute. We had this really good time and I was more relaxed than I had been in along time. I was talking...it was like all the things I had been talking about: instead of consciously telling myself, I was almost unconsciously doing it - I was sort of unconsciously doing it. 0:39:42.1
COUNSELOR: You almost had that mental set.
PATIENT: Right, I almost had it but what it was is the fact that I was really...see, what I was worried about is that I will think of something to say and I will think: "No, no - he doesn't want to hear it; it is just stupid conversation." But if I thought of something to say I just said it and as I was saying it I may have said to myself: "Well, this is kind of stupid." But I continued anyway to what I was saying. If I thought that maybe it was kind of stupid I would make it short - I would kind of shorten it - I wouldn't give my long...I would give my condensed version: I didn't give him my epic form of conversation (chuckles). I found myself just opening my mouth and saying something, instead of worrying about weighing all of these things.
COUNSELOR: That sounds like a really big deal in a way because you are scared of not having anything to say. That night, it really worked differently. It was like you had plenty of stuff and it was whether or not you were going to censor it.
PATIENT: Well, it wasn't whether I was going to censor it. Usually, I will start to say something and before I start to say it, I will be just like: "No, wait a minute, this isn't worth saying." What I do is I find myself...I open my mouth and start talking and as I was talking I think: "Wait a minute; maybe we ought to condense this for brevity's sake." But it wasn't the same way as actually holding my...I have gotten to the point where I am afraid...I will ramble on about unimportant things but if I get excited about something I will just start rambling. I was doing a fairly good job of holding a conversation and I was really kind of proud of myself. I kind of enjoyed the evening. He is going to call me tonight.
COUNSELOR: You didn't have to sit on yourself so hard that nothing came out. If you could just sort of monitor it a little bit. 0:41:58.4
PATIENT: I took the attitude of "relax" and do what I want to do. I am in a bar and if the guy doesn't like me he just won't ask me to dance anymore. If he does, fine - he will come back.
COUNSELOR: As simple as that.
PATIENT: And if he doesn't like me and he doesn't like my approach, well, that is sort of too bad but nothing lost - I haven't lost anything. If you are too careful you are going to lose them anyway.
COUNSELOR: So you might as well relax?
PATIENT: Yeah, the thing was I wasn't sitting there thinking about it. I was going to: I was going to put my mind across my brain but I forgot (chuckles). I was doing something else so I forgot. But it sort of worked out. I was just relaxed. I don't know, it was a combination probably of different things. My Mom and I were very decadent Saturday: Mom didn't get up until noon, first all. She would get up and she would come down and talk to me and then she would go back to bed. "Are you back in bed again." "It just feels so good." I was kidding her about it. I would go around and I would open the windows and open the blinds and she would get up and pull the windows and pull the blinds (chuckles). She got up and we fixed lunch, and we sat there - the two of us - all afternoon, her in her pajamas and bathrobe and me in my Levi's and I was washing clothes at the same time and each of us put away about a six pack of beer and we just sat there at the kitchen table and talked all afternoon - it was quite enjoyable. So I was relaxed before I went out. I almost didn't go out. My Mom was saying: "You look horrible; don't go out." I was drinking beer all day and my eyes were a little bit pudgy I guess. I washed my face and put some make-up on, took a shower. I said: "Do I still look bad?" She said: "No, you look a lot better now."
COUNSELOR: You were really just enjoying yourself there.
PATIENT: Right, I really didn't want to go out but Jess and I got there and we didn't know what was going to happen. We went to a place where I really don't like that much. This is a place we used to go to about three years ago and I hadn't been back for a while - it could have been two years ago; yeah, I suppose it was; I am 25: I was 21 three years ago; no, four years ago! I have got a birthday coming up so it was almost three years ago. I have got a birthday this month: I will be 26 years old. Saturday night was a good night because I guess I was calm and relaxed. I wasn't spacey. I usually have a really good time when I am spacey and nobody else is. It is kind of a mental spacey: I wasn't really hung over that one day. It was an after-effect of the alcohol but I wasn't hungover. That is the only time I am spacey; just that kind of mental attitude. I can't get that way when I am drinking. Before I get that loose - when I am drinking - I fall asleep. A lot of people react to alcohol that way and it is nice but I don't know. I drink and I get a little high and I will giggle or something but I don't let myself go. Drinking a little more doesn't help because all that does is [does sound of being knocked out]. 0:45:57.5
COUNSELOR: You just get sleepier.
PATIENT: I just go asleep, you know.
COUNSELOR: This is an attitude of: "Well, it is alright."
PATIENT: It is not like I was high on grass or something. I get kind of that way when I am high on grass but not usually. It is sort of that way but this is like: "I am nothing." It is just a mental end which is a lot of fun. I just didn't enjoy myself on Wednesday.
COUNSELOR: Like when you can slip into a bath; things are really fine.
PATIENT: I can put it on, sort of, but not really.
COUNSELOR: It is really different when you actually feel it than when you are trying to pretend to.
PATIENT: I haven't really tried it. I think trying to put that one on, I would be really be putting myself in the right frame of mind to be that way, whereas if I was putting on some other airs, it doesn't necessarily mean I am getting into the mood of it. This stuff is so infectious that if you could do it very well, you have got it - it is a frame of mind all of a sudden. It is something that my hang-ups won't let me get into usually - that well. I get kind of into it - half way into it. Even if I got into the frame of mind just a little bit is better than being so super serious all of the time.
COUNSELOR: It makes you feel sort of heavy - like a dud.
PATIENT: I don't like being that way; too gregarious all of the time. 
COUNSELOR: That isn't you; you ought to be out there having fun.
PATIENT: I am not that way at all. I come out that way but I am not really that way. The kind of things I like to do I don't think anybody does anymore - like go for long walks in the middle of a forest and go running around playing tag football with a bunch of idiots. I used to enjoy going to fraternity beer parties because you did dumb things like that.
COUNSELOR: You like to play.
PATIENT: I am usually game for a lot. Most of things that people look for as being up for anything these days is just not my idea of fun. I talked to my Mom about this and she was saying some guy who was on television that has earned a lot of money - he was an executive some place - has earned his way, had made his fame through PMA - positive mental attitude. My Mom was saying that she has got these notes up all over the house: "PMA - Do It Now!" One of the things that she was telling me about was: do you know there is a book called "Positive Mental Attitude," or something like that?
COUNSELOR: I don't know.
PATIENT: I think there is something about positive mental attitude, which I think would probably help me a lot more. I never did get that book about (inaudible 49:41) that I was talking about. My Mom says she is going to try and get it. Just having a positive mental attitude about lots of...I get so mad at myself because I go home and I do nothing all night. Maybe just get (inaudible 49:59) percentage of just knocking myself out or something. I don't mind leaving the house but if I am just sitting there - if I am at home - I will waste the time. It doesn't bother me if I have to leave home: I don't feel like I have lost anything. I was wondering if you knew anything about that positive mental attitude book because I think that would help me too. How it came about: my Dad was staying off and they were watching David Frost and this guy was on David Frost and it was positive mental attitude and my Dad said something like: "That is what you and Susan need." They were talking about salesmen and that is what good salesmen have - positive mental attitude. And the guy was talking about PMA, PMA, PMA and Mom says: " What is PMA?" And Dad says, he looked at her like she was kind of dumb, and said: "Positive mental attitude, of course." My Dad amazes me: he doesn't do that much reading - he just doesn't read at all hardly - but he knows a lot of stuff. He also amazes my Mom too. I don't know why it should be so amazing that my father should know something like what the meaning of PMA was, but he said: "PMA - positive mental attitude. Every salesman has it." I was kind of shocked when Mom told me. I didn't say anything to her about it but I just thought in my mind: "Gee whiz! good Dad; good going. three points for you." 0:51:39.1
COUNSELOR: Positive mental attitude is, like, it fits with the part of you that wants to play and wants to have fun.
PATIENT: And that wants to do something instead of sitting around and (inaudible 51:50).
COUNSELOR: Get mad at yourself.
PATIENT: You know, don't sit around and (inaudible 51:58). That would help me: positive mental attitude; do it now; it would help me on my diet. Take the bull by the horns and do it. No reason to wait. I would like to read some more about it. I guess the key words are: Positive mental attitude; do it now. Do it now: don't wait. Do it now. So my Mom says you are supposed to get up in the morning and repeat to yourself 50 times: "Do it now." And repeat it before you go to bed: "Do it now." She had been wanting to clean out the cupboard, so I would get up every morning and say: "Do it now." I go to bed and I say: "Do it now; do it now." But I said: "Yeah, but Mom, aren't you supposed to say 'do it now' 50 times and then go do it?" She says: "Well, that is the theory. It doesn't quite work out that way!" (chuckles)
COUNSELOR: I haven't gotten around to doing that yet.
PATIENT: Just like, I have got the exercises down: the first thing is to make yourself say it 50 times, just to get yourself in the proper spirit. If you do this for a little while, you will start doing what you are supposed to be doing. I think it would probably help if you said you would do it now...say it 50 times while you were cleaning out the cupboard: "Do it now: do it now; do it now," as you are cleaning out the cupboard! She has got those exercises down!
COUNSELOR: You want to get yourself moving.
PATIENT: Right, yeah. "I would like to do that: that would be nice. I should really do that: I would enjoy that."
COUNSELOR: I could picture you, standing off, looking at yourself sitting there, giving yourself a couple of kicks or something saying: "Come on, get up! Get going." And you sitting there. 0:54:10.3
PATIENT: Yeah, just kind of vegetating in the one spot, right. 
COUNSELOR: And you are getting frustrated. The park is just sitting there and keeps right on sitting there.
PATIENT: Like I say, last night I didn't want to go bowling. We took three points though: I am glad I went. We usually take one or none. You usually get four points: three for the game; one for each game - there are three games - and one for the highest number of points; which team has the highest number of points. We took two games and had the highest number of points. Three points. And last week when I wasn't there they took three points. And I thought we were going to lose last night because we lost the first game by 50 points and I was sitting there thinking: "Gee, maybe if I quit coming they will do better. They always do better when I am not around." I enjoyed it: we were really excited; we had a lot of team spirit in that third game. We were doing really well, for a while, and then half-way through the game we kind of petered out and the last frame we came back again - so we won. I was really enjoying that until I started bowling bad again. I try to get up there and I will do something dumb. A couple of times I did it last night: I will do something dumb. I will throw a stupid ball; maybe I would knock more pins down than I thought I was going to. I would throw a ball and hit the last pin but they would all ricochet around and knock a bunch of them and you are left with around four of five pins standing - one here, one here, one here and one there. garbage, you know. I am sitting there wishing I had just knocked that one pin down and I might have had a chance to get the rest of them. Usually, I get upset with myself but last night I was just saying - I don't know if I believed it or not - but my reaction was, instead of getting mad I stay up there and I would laugh at it. I would just laugh and it helped because I didn't get as uptight about...I still got uptight about the next ball I was going to through but I didn't get upset about that one - I didn't really feel bad. And I would do things...I threw a bad ball and I walked back to where everybody was sitting and I would kind of hang my head but I wasn't really that upset about it. What I was doing was I was walking back and I was saying to the guys: "I am really sorry about that." I was sorry about it but I wasn't as upset about it: I wasn't as upset as I usually get. These things are kind of like, I don't know whether I am incorporating my ideas into my mind and they are working without me consciously thinking about it, but I am seeming to relax more in those situations. 0:57:28.0
COUNSELOR: A little bit: it is just starting to happen almost by itself, partly.
PATIENT: Yeah. It is like, you know, maybe it is kind of in my thinking now. It is like something you have to incorporate into your think so you do it sub-consciously. Consciously, it is like I have to wait until it gets to the point that I am not telling myself after I get upset that there is nothing to get upset about - to calm myself down. If I tell myself before it happens there is nothing to get upset about, I don't get upset in the first place, or I don't get as upset. There are certain situations.
COUNSELOR: Like when you are driving, you mean?
PATIENT: There are certain situations where it just calls for it.
COUNSELOR: When someone is driving 25 in a 45 mile an hour zone.
PATIENT: Well, 25 in a 45 is upsetting but it is not as upsetting as someone who is doing 25 in front of you and stops like that - it is nerve wracking. That is the old me: the new me is just going to stay calm in situations like that. If somebody is just poking along at 25 in a 45, I just have to tell myself: "You are not going to get there that much faster so don't worry about it." Oh, she was dumb! Dumb!
COUNSELOR: You are still a little mad thinking about it now.
PATIENT: Yeah. That is one of the things that aggravates me really bad is stupid drivers.
COUNSELOR: Thursday at 4.30?
PATIENT: Fine.
COUNSELOR: Okay. 0:59:38.5
END TRANSCRIPT
