TRANSCRIPT OF AUDIO FILE:
______________________________________________________________________________
BEGIN TRANSCRIPT:
(bumping sounds)
COUNSELOR: How are you doing?
PATIENT: OK.
COUNSELOR: Good.
PATIENT: I'm a little fatigued. (inaudible cross-talking) I feel somehow even worse (inaudible).
COUNSELOR: Oh, no. That must be pretty bad, then.
PATIENT: Aw, I don't know why but - well, I know why. A lot of things happening at the same time and (sighs) it's hard. I'll get through it. But it's a little hard. The plumbers flooded one of the floors yesterday. [:48]
COUNSELOR: In your new place?
PATIENT: Yes. And I have to go to a conference for - to - with Ginger's kindergarden teacher and director of the program; talk about some problems that she's having. And it's very hard. It's kind of frustrating because it (sighs) - you know I wish I could kind of put a finger on it but it's hard to put a finger on it. They say that she spaces out. She doesn't - she's a little bit awkward in her interaction with the other kids. You know (sigh) - you know, they think she's very smart. (inaudible) as far as your intelligence goes she's off the scale. But - which is nice. [1:50]
COUNSELOR: Well, that's good to hear.
PATIENT: But - yes, but at the same time, you know, we've gone through this before.
COUNSELOR: I remember you telling me - several months ago [you said] that she had an evaluation ...
PATIENT: Right. Yes, when we took her for a private evaluation. We changed schools, actually, because of it. Now, the teacher that she has now we're much happier with and she's very - she seems, you know, really good and very concerned; genuinely concerned. [2:20] She's willing to work with her; willing to accept whatever decision we make but we just don't know whether it's, you know, something that really requires - what they were suggesting is to go through an evaluation that the - we could set up with the board of ed and they might - they might mandate having a teacher coming in; like an itinerant teacher come in like a few hours (car horn) every week and work with her. But they only - so you know, we're - but you go through a whole battery of, you know, tests and evaluations, interviews, home interviews, school - you know, evaluations at school. [3:14]
COUNSELOR: How old is she now?
PATIENT: She's five-and-a-half. And so, you know, we wonder, at that age kids are not ...
COUNSELOR: A little young.
PATIENT: It's a little young. And the question is - of course, if there's a problem you want to nip it in the bud. But on the other hand, you don't want to kind of overreact to something and alienate her and make her feel that she's somehow got something wrong with her or possibly stigmatize her in some way. And we were concerned earlier that, you know, something like that could just follow her around if she - you know, through the rest of her schooling. [3:58]
Yes. So, I don't know. It's like - and the question is how much of it is - you know, she doesn't - you know everyone says, you know, there's no - there are no cognitive problems. And so, we're - you know, it's just that she has trouble, I guess, focusing on - figuring out what she wants to do next and then how to proceed to do that. You know, like she might stand in front of some activity but kind of not know how to get - and it also has to do with her interaction with the other kids. Sometimes she's OK but other times she'll just stand there and kind of look at it for a while, I guess. [4:50]
So - but when - but she doesn't act that way when she's at home. She doesn't act that way when she's in a small group setting. But in the class where there are 18 kids, she's ...
COUNSELOR: Lost a little more.
PATIENT: It's much - yes, yes. It's much more pronounced. So, we wonder about it. We thought maybe, you know, in a smaller group setting. But there's kind of difficult [in finding] (ph) that. [5:25] And so - and it's a question of whether it's just something she's going to outgrow or a skill that she has to acquire and - over the next few years, you know, just - it could just happen. I'm wondering, you know, how much can an itinerant teacher coming in two or three hours a week really contribute.
But - and Karen was very upset about it. I mean we thought that things - we had a meeting with the teacher then we had another one two weeks later. And then, actually the - as I was watching Ginger (inaudible) teacher and we thought that things were going better and all of a sudden the teacher said, "Well, I think she really needs to go - you know, not that she needs to but it would be a really good idea for her to go to try this." [6:23]
And Karen felt - you know, she - actually, she burst into tears. She felt really - and then we got into a whole thing. She was saying, "Oh, you know, when she was - when she was younger she would eat alone and she would just - you know, I would leave her alone and maybe I should have been interacting with her more." And I said, "Why are you - you know, why are you beating yourself up over, you know, what you did or didn't do?" You know? I mean there's nothing wrong here, I mean really. It's not a question of that. It's just a question of what we see now, for whatever reason. [7:06] And it could be a million different things playing into it. We don't know. There's no sense trying to dissect the past. Let's just, you know, try and - then she kept saying, "Oh but, you know, I really - I think I really ..." And I said, "Look, you're a good mother." And I know she is. I mean - and I tell her this. [7:28] And I know it's true. And ...
COUNSELOR: How do you feel about the situation? You're sort of talking about how Karen reacts to it.
PATIENT: I - it bugs me somewhat but I - you know, I think she's a great kid. You know? And I love her and I think she is a great kid. And I think that she's very strong, too. She has a lot of resilience. You know? [8:00] I mean of course she's five-and-a-half years old so she has all the, you know ...
COUNSELOR: (inaudible)
PATIENT: There are things that come along with being a five-and-a-half-year-old. I have - I feel like - I mean it does kind of, I guess, underline a difference between Karen - I mean, in some ways. I'm always - I'm always the optimist. So I always - you know, I think that she's going to be fine. [8:27] That, you know, really no matter which path we go through - I don't think there's a wrong path that's going to destroy her. OK, we could - and in the end, you know, I think we have to investigate it more; talk to - you know, she saw a child psychologist (inaudible) you know, if we should speak to her again. We get her take on it. [8:55] And also, Karen suggested that, you know, she might observe the class incognito, if possible - kind of hard but - to see for herself what the ...
COUNSELOR: You know, as you're speaking I really am feeling a strong sense of how sure you feel about some things about your daughter.
PATIENT: Yes.
COUNSELOR: You're so, you know - and it really - you know, I can really feel the strength of that conviction.
PATIENT: Yes.
COUNSELOR: How - you know, how much you love her; how much you know that she's a good kid; about how much you know she's going to turn out alright.
PATIENT: Yes, I do think so. I mean as much as any parent can know. You know. You know, kids - she's a person in her own right. She'll kind of follow her own path. [9:49]
COUNSELOR: And I think it's probably - it's probably an asset for her to have a father who believes in her.
PATIENT: Well, I hope so. I hope so. But yes, I do believe in - I believe in her. I mean I believe in her ability and I believe, you know, there are things that - I mean I look at her and sometimes I think, "Oh, Karen blames herself." And I thought about it myself. I did think about it myself and I thought, "Wow, gee, you know, actually I'm spacey." I'm, you know, like that. Kind of indecisive sometimes or pondering, you know. Overwhelmed, perhaps and - by too much stimulus or not being able to - you know, I experience that. I can understand it. [10:43] I don't know if it's exactly what she's going through. I don't want to impose my, you know - my experience on her either; and say that either. And it doesn't really - you know, she's - she may share some things but - with me. Or there may be, you know. But it's really a coincidence as far as I'm concerned. You know, really. I'm not trying to impose a vision of me to her or whatever. [11:11]
So I - when I thought about that I thought, "Well, what difference does it make?" - you know. It doesn't - where she gets the thing - this or that or whatever from. You know. If there are ways to approach it that could benefit her, by all means, you know, we should do that. And it's not clear which buttons you're going to press and ...
COUNSELOR: Right.
PATIENT: And ...
COUNSELOR: I'm really impressed with sort of like how clear you are; sort of like how you've worked this out.
PATIENT: Thanks.
COUNSELOR: I mean it just feels like - you know how we talked, you know, early on when we were first working together. You know, one of the things; not every - you know, just one piece of the puzzle. But one of the things we talked about was how you'll often sort of like - you don't feel like you're on solid ground. You're not sure how you feel about things. You're not sure what you really want sometimes or how to make decisions. [12:15]
But as you're talking today, it's like - you know, you couldn't be more clear on sort of how solid you feel about this situation.
PATIENT: Yes. I was just thinking that, you know, of course we've been talking about the end of - this is our next to last session. And ...
COUNSELOR: So how does that go with what I was saying?
PATIENT: Well, I was just thinking that in a way it's - it has to do, perhaps, with finding strength within myself to deal with problems and also seeing perhaps, in some ways, that I can play the supportive role also for my daughter (inaudible).
COUNSELOR: That you have something to offer. [12:59]
PATIENT: Yes. And perhaps, in somewhat of the way that you, you know, that you are for me, I guess.
COUNSELOR: Sounds like that's a really good feeling.
PATIENT: Yes. Yes, I think that ...
COUNSELOR: And I'll add just another little piece to that, too. That feels really good to hear you say that. And I also think that there's another piece to it too, though, that you have a sense of being able to give your daughter some of the things you wish you had gotten ...
PATIENT: Yes, I do.
COUNSELOR: ... when you were growing up. And I think support is a big one. Believing in her is a big one.
PATIENT: Yes, it is. I feel like I have to be careful because I don't want to like, you know, bring her up as a reaction to my parents.
COUNSELOR: Right. Sure.
PATIENT: But I think that is - it is important to me that, you know - and it's in the back of mind a lot. [13:55] I'm - you know. If anything, perhaps, you know - I sometimes think, you know, that if anything, maybe I should offer her more guidance, in a way that - you know, kids do need structure and do need ...
COUNSELOR: Sure.
PATIENT: They don't - they can't operate in a vacuum, you know. It's like the way I guess I felt when I was, you know, taking that art class at the Museum of Modern Art and I wanted to be told what to draw and how to do it and they were just throwing materials down on the desk and saying, "Aw kids, do great stuff. Just go ahead and do whatever you want." I wanted direction. [14:39] And I think that -
So I think that, in a way - and Karen is somewhat more that way. You know. But I think that in combination we're - you know, it works out quite well. Like a lot of things; a lot of other things in our lives. I mean I feel that Karen and I really are - you know, we take on things and yes, there are sometimes conflicts. But in general, I feel we're very - well, synchronicity is an overused word but there's a certain something like that; a certain like, "You'll do this and I'll, you know ..." (inaudible)
COUNSELOR: Complement.
PATIENT: Yes, complement each other. We'll pick up the slack (inaudible), you know. [15:32] Don't have a problem there.
So yes, I don't know. Karen, of course, has to deal with it. I mean she's closer to it, also though. I mean not that I'm a bulwark and she's like, you know, just a mass of - you know, well she's dealing more with the situations and - you know, with Ginger. She's around Ginger more and during the week, of course, I'm at work a lot; often late. And she's dealing with the house much more. So she's much more involved in all that. [16:22]
And we've fallen, somewhat, into - you know, sometimes we fall into that whole thing of, you know, perhaps each of us taking for granted what the other is going through or, you know, like the grass is always greener on the other side than your own, you know. You know, she thinks I'm at work; I can - I'm at work and I have like a level of freedom that she doesn't have because I don't have to deal with the things she's dealing with. And I probably - I feel the converse; that, you know - which is a real trap. A lot of the - well, not a lot of but, you know, some other people I know have kind of gotten into it and never really got out of and ended up getting divorced or you know, there are probably more deep-seated things going on. [17:14] But that's like a common spark. And that sets things off.
COUNSELOR: Well, to pick up on, you know, just like you mentioned, this is our second-to-last session. So where are you, you know, sort of your feeling about where we're at?
PATIENT: I feel - you know, I feel a little nervous about it. I feel - I feel good. I mean I feel like I'll be able to carry on. I feel good about a lot of things. I feel good about being able to - I feel that I - there have been changes; maybe incremental changes. But they're there. They're concrete. I am a little nervous. You know, getting a little nervous in some ways, also too, I 'm just - I mean I - but you know, at a very basic level though I think - I know I'll be able to carry on. [18:29] You know. I'm not anywhere close to like, you know, (inaudible).
COUNSELOR: No, I get a sense of that.
PATIENT: Yes. But there is some nervousness about it, I think. It's not something that I - in some ways I'm kind of anticipating it in a way. It's like I don't know. When you know something's going to happen and in some ways - in some ways I actually almost want to get it over with. You know? Because I feel it hanging there, you know? You know what I mean? [19:13]
COUNSELOR: We're also talking about it quite a bit.
PATIENT: Yes.
COUNSELOR: Do you have any thoughts about that? Is it bothering you that we're talking about it a lot?
PATIENT: Well, probably (inaudible at 19:23) raising it as much as, you know, (inaudible). So no, I don't think so. Because I think that it - it's not a thing in and of itself. Just like when I got out of - you know, when I went to college and end of college - graduated from college it was like this brick wall. You know, kind of couldn't see past it. [19:56] I don't know. You know, that was just me. But you know, it was like - and probably a lot of liberal arts majors. But you know, it's like, you just all of a sudden hit the brick wall and ...
COUNSELOR: Now what?
PATIENT: ... and you've always been working for this goal and all of a sudden, "What's after this?" Well, it does feel a little bit like that.
COUNSELOR: A little bit like that. Yes. [20:22]
PATIENT: But, at the same time, I know that the goals are still there. I may not - and I don't think it's quite as extreme as perhaps it was when I was in college.
COUNSELOR: And your goals are a little different in a funny way because they're the kind of goals that it's in the striving to attain them as opposed to ever attaining them.
PATIENT: Right, right. The striving is the goal.
COUNSELOR: In it's own way.
PATIENT: Yes.
COUNSELOR: Because it's not like, you know, (inaudible at 20:56] at this point you have finished.
PATIENT: Right. That's true. Although there are people who continue with their educations (chuckling) forever. But ...
COUNSELOR: If it's OK, I want to go back for a moment to when I was telling you that I was impressed with sort of how solid you were about your feelings (inaudible at 21:21) about this situation with Ginger and what the right thing to do is. What was it like for you for me to say that?
PATIENT: Literally (ph)?
COUNSELOR: What was your reaction to it? Because I had a feeling like we ...
PATIENT: It was nice. I mean it was - you know, I don't - it's not something that I really get - I get from many places or - if at all. Though - I mean when I was talking with the - Ginger's teacher and the supervisor, the director, I was conscious of it, too. [22:11] And I felt that - I don't know. I just - I do feel like it was validating for me. I mean when you said it, it was kind of validating for me. And I talked to them and they respected my judgment and I respected theirs. You know. And I feel that way and it's a good feeling, you know, when you said that in the same sense. [22:40]
Just - I get so wrapped up in things, sometimes, that's it's sometimes hard to ...
COUNSELOR: Give yourself credit?
PATIENT: Yes, give myself credit and sort of step back and see that, you know, I'm standing firmly and ...
COUNSELOR: You're doing OK.
PATIENT: Yes. And it's OK, yes.
COUNSELOR: Well, one of the reasons I asked you is because when we talked - again, you know, maybe I'm doing this in part also because we're ending soon. But my mind is often going to how I see you today and the way we're talking today and how it's different in some ways than the way, you know, it was when we first started working together. And I remember one of the things that we talked about then was if I were to say something good about you then it sort of would be hard for you to sort of like listen to it. It'd be hard for you to believe it. You wouldn't be sure that it, you know, was I saying that just to be nice or was I not really seeing, you know, you in a whole picture. Somehow you fooled me into thinking something good about you.
PATIENT: Right. [23:57]
COUNSELOR: We talked like that. Is there any of that going on today?
PATIENT: It was more like yes, I feel clear about this. I do. You know. And to hear it was good. I mean to hear you say that was good and validating and my (inaudible at 24:20) in some way.
COUNSELOR: So there wasn't that - there wasn't that voice of doubt?
PATIENT: No, it wasn't - no. I mean like - not like - I mean I can recall (inaudible at 24:30). (truck sounds) There is no voice saying, "Oh well, you know, that's bulls**t" or whatever or anything like that. It was like, "Yes, that's the way I feel and I'm expressing it and you're giving me, you know, what you're ..."
COUNSELOR: So that's quite a difference.
PATIENT: Yes, I guess so. It's funny because I (pause) - I don't know. I mean I don't know how much different I am but - on the one hand. And I think it is like - the changes are incremental, on the other hand, but I think they're there. But you know, you always expect that - well, one, that - I mean I guess I came in here with the expectation that I was going to change overnight or something; that it was going to be, you know, the talking cure. Right? [25:27] And (CB radio sounds)
And the other part of that is that you think that when you "are going to become whole" or you know, then you're going to know it. This is a fallacy also. You know, I mean - I don't know what kind of analogy you could make but, you know, it's just you're in a dynamic world and - or I'm in a dynamic world and you know, when I move from one position I'm still me. And I may change, in some ways, in relation to the rest of the world but the rest of the world is also changing with me. That's all. [26:20]
COUNSELOR: Yes, that's a very sort of like sophisticated way of thinking of that.
PATIENT: Yes.
COUNSELOR: And I think you're right. When I sort of - you know, when I'm highlighting sort of things that I see about you that seem different than the way you might have described things earlier or before, it's also not my sense that you who you are as a person has changed. You know, I still see you as the same person that I think what's changed is I think maybe there's been some growth in certain areas. And I think that that may be an understanding yourself a little bit more, maybe, and accepting yourself a little bit more and then giving yourself a little more credit; maybe for things that have been there all along.
PATIENT: Yes. I think that's definitely true. [27:19]
COUNSELOR: Right. So in a sense, I think you're right. It's both things. It's not that, you know, in the last six months or eight months that there's been this radical shift and now you have all these things about you that you never had before. That may be part, maybe in a funny way, of a little bit of a paradox; that one of the changes is not giving yourself credit for some of those things that you had all along and not doubting them as much. [27:47]
PATIENT: Yes. Well, I think that it does have a lot of - I mean a lot to do with my self confidence and feeling - yes. I mean yes, feeling good about myself in a lot of ways. It's one thing - I think, one of the more - I mean one of the things that I'll carry away from this, I think, you know, that that's really one of the big things.
COUNSELOR: Sounds like it's a good thing.
PATIENT: Yes. Yes, it's I think that I can definitely do more to bring that into focus or I know I can. You know. [28:50] I know that - you know, [more into play] (ph) with - because I do - I do lose sight of it and quite easily, I think, how I'm feeling. Or you know, I think that has to do with my, well, inability to kind of recognize myself in the world. You know. Or to separate myself from the rest of the world in some ways. I think it's always been difficult for me to separate myself from the rest of the world. It just gets completely subsumed. [29:33] But you know - then I have noticed that there's - that that is something that's changed, you know, in some ways.
It just - but yes, I would like to be kind of able to carry that through in more things and being more conscious of what I want and what I - what I want to do or what I - the way I'm feeling. I think that [that's see] (ph), my really - kind of my ultimate goal and it's - like you said, it's not a goal you hit and it's over with. It's something that carries on. [30:31]
COUNSELOR: Yes, and the word that's coming to my mind as you're speaking now is sort of like - sort of continuing to nourish a sense that you deserve that attention, recognition for being. Important to be recognized as separate from the world sometimes. That doesn't mean it's a selfish act (inaudible at 30:57).
PATIENT: Yes. Yes. I, you know - I still think I - yes, I mean I have a long way to go. I mean I will go forever of course but ...
COUNSELOR: That is pretty long (chuckling).
PATIENT: Yes. Well, long enough but you know, (long pause) a lot of - you know, of course, even my coming here was - you know, has to do with - at least initially had to do with a lot of things, you know, [going with] (ph) Karen especially. And the impetus there was - and I think her expectation - of course, I said this before - was kind of different. There are things that bothered her about, you know, when she thought that (inaudible at 31:50) therapy would alleviate a lot of that. In some ways, you know, it hasn't. It hasn't worked out that way. In a lot of ways, actually, [it isn't the way] (ph). But yes, so you know, coming here originally was also kind of meeting of someone else's expectations.
COUNSELOR: Yes, she was ...
PATIENT: In the very beginning.
COUNSELOR: She was, in part, a lot of the impetus you needed to sort of ...
PATIENT: Right.
COUNSELOR: ... seek treatment in the first place.
PATIENT: Yes. Yes.
COUNSELOR: She was saying, "Oh, you've got to work on this."
PATIENT: Right. You know. And we went to counseling together and then our - the counselor said, "You know, it might be a good idea." So I felt like, "Oh, OK." [32:44]
I think that made it - in retrospect, I think that made it much harder for me to - in the beginning, too.
COUNSELOR: Yes. Because it didn't - right from the beginning it didn't feel like this was for you and this was your choice.
PATIENT: Yes.
COUNSELOR: Felt like you were doing it because someone else was pushing you.
PATIENT: Yes. Yes. And there's, I mean, of course, a real temptation to go back to Karen and say, "Well, you know, you - you know, be careful of what you wish for. You may get it." You know. [33:24] But that's something that I have to be careful about too, I think, in that, you know, I'm not (pause) - you know, using it to get back at her in some way or saying, "Well, now I'm my own man and ...," you know, "I don't have to listen to you" or something like that, which there is a temptation to do sometimes. [33:58] (pause)
And our dynamic - I mean what we, Karen and I go through, I mean there's still a lot that has to be played out; a lot of issues that may never go away. But I hope that it doesn't obscure the fact that we love each other and we really, you know. It's - and that we can accept each other from where we are, of course.
COUNSELOR: Sort of parallel, in a way, sort of hindsight (ph). You know, you're just starting to see that part of the way to think about (inaudible at 34:48) therapies and things (ph) that you're really on a journey. And things that you've been thinking about in our conversations and in our work together are things you're going to continue to sort of think about and try to understand and continue to grow in certain areas. And I guess that could be said for your relationship for Karen as well; that it's also a journey.
PATIENT: Yes.
COUNSELOR: And that there are also ...
PATIENT: I agree. Yes. With Ginger and everything. Yes.
COUNSELOR: Right.
PATIENT: Yes. [35:30] I'm always - yes, I think I am, you know, and I - (chuckling) It's funny to say but I think I'm more conscious of these issues that I even am conscious of. (chuckling) And ...
COUNSELOR: Well that sort of speaks to what you've been saying before, too; you know, that sometimes when, you know, you've been working on something for a while and you know there have been subtle changes, it's now hard to like pick out what those changes are separate from who you are (car horn) today. Because it's sort of like, "Well, this is how I feel today." And sort of like, "What part of that is, you know, due to the therapy? What part of that ..."
PATIENT: Right.
COUNSELOR: "... is due to this?" It's sort of like maybe you can't pick it apart like that.
PATIENT: Yes, right. Yes. (long pause) Yes. That's true.
COUNSELOR: Well, we didn't talk - you know, you sort of said that there was some nervousness. Really didn't talk about ... (inaudible crosstalk at 36:52].
PATIENT: It's just a feeling. I mean it's just is like - it is somewhat like - I mean there's a side of it that's like, you know, there's kind of a void after the last session and you know, either there's going to be a gap there; there's going to be something missing there. And then I - you know, and I think that you have played a supportive role, you know in a lot of ways. Not purely that. But that's - I'm going to miss that.
COUNSELOR: (inaudible at 37:50)
PATIENT: And I'm a little - yes, I'm a little nervous that, you know - that I won't have the same kind of validation or that same reassurance in some ways. And just stuff like that. And I think I said last week that in some ways I'm girding up for it. [38:18] And I think perhaps that maybe some of the ways like I do - I've been doing that are to (sighs) - are like to assume that position for my daughter and for Karen, perhaps, or - you know. [38:44] [Comes to feel] (ph), I don't know, to I guess, reinforce myself in some way. You know, it's hard to separate it out against, of course, the background of all the stuff that's going on; all these things.
COUNSELOR: Right. You've got a full plate.
PATIENT: Yes.
COUNSELOR: Or maybe several spinning plates. (chuckling) Right.
PATIENT: (singing) Da da da da da da da da.
COUNSELOR: Exactly. [39:18]
PATIENT: Yes, yes. But you know I - but those things, you know, I know I will get through and - but you know. And I feel, you know. Yes, I do feel confident, generally. But there is nervousness. There's a little twinge there and I just felt just like coming in the door and thinking this is ...
COUNSELOR: Right. Since we're talking about it and it's coming up now that we're finishing soon, it sort of has - our meetings are tinged by that a little bit.
PATIENT: Yes, yes. But ...
COUNSELOR: But it's sort of like the new. It has - it has an effect on it; the context of sort of this meeting. This is a meeting towards the end as opposed to a meeting in the middle.
PATIENT: (inaudible at 40:07)
COUNSELOR: Right.
PATIENT: Yes. But it also feels good in a way because it helps me somehow encapsulate my experience here. And you know - you know, it's not like I have, well, lesson A - (drum roll) I learned this; lesson B - I learned that; and lesson - you know.
COUNSELOR: Right.
PATIENT: But it does - you know, it kind of gives me a way to not only see what things, you know, to clarify for me what kinds of things have been important, also. But it's also kind of - it's like drawing a graph and drawing the lines and then extrapolating out, I mean, where can I go from here. [41:00]
COUNSELOR: Yes, I think it's one of those situations where, you know, many things are true at the same time; that you can feel good about progress that you made. You can feel confident and seeing things in a new way that allows you to continue to think about these things that are important to you in your life and maybe continue to change them or decide not to change them.
PATIENT: Yes.
COUNSELOR: But at the same time, acknowledge the fact that it's going to be different (siren) for you and me to not meet anymore.
PATIENT: Yes.
COUNSELOR: Sort of both things can be true; that one doesn't sort of ...
PATIENT: Oh, yes.
COUNSELOR: ... you know, annihilate the other one. [41:49]
PATIENT: Right. That's - I mean, that's the thing. I mean (chuckling), I guess I think of myself as being kind of an expert at multiplicity but not really being able to weave those things into something coherent, you know. I mean I think that's been my problem that this ...
COUNSELOR: Or maybe sometimes things don't - can't be weaved.
PATIENT: Well, no. [Then I] (ph) necessarily can. But I ...
COUNSELOR: Yes.
PATIENT: But I get lost.
COUNSELOR: Yes.
PATIENT: You know.
COUNSELOR: In all the different facets.
PATIENT: In all the different facets of being able - well, I think when I first walked in here the first, you know, few times, it's more - that was always - it was much more difficult for me to kind of [kick it] (ph) and see what was going on because, oh, there were a lot of things going on. [42:42] But I - and part of it, I think, just a defensive. You know, a defensive thing that I've always had or a way of ...
COUNSELOR: Yes, I remember when ...
PATIENT: ... protecting myself.
COUNSELOR: When you said that it sort of jogged a memory of mine that there were - we had a lot of experiences early on as you sort of like getting stuck and sort of feeling like you're supposed to dig deep and drag something up.
PATIENT: Right, right.
COUNSELOR: You know.
PATIENT: And it feels so different now.
COUNSELOR: Yes.
PATIENT: It does. I mean (inaudible at 43:11) when you say that I just think, "Wow. That was ..."
COUNSELOR: Well, and we really talked about sort of like how trapped you felt in that. Do you feel like, "Is there something to drag up in the first place?" You know, it was just really circular and confused and ...
PATIENT: (overlapping voices) [Right, you never know.] (ph) [43:28] Yes. Right. That's really true. But I - and I feel - I mean, yes, you know, I'm sure part of those things are still there but I do feel like I'm in a different - at least somewhat different place now. I think I still do have those problems, you know? So (pause) [43:52] - [and how you] (ph) characterize it. I think it's sort of like waffling or something but - and it's (sigh) - and losing - you know, it's not being able to find direction within myself and looking always outside for the direction. (inaudible at 44:20) You know, it is something I guess that I have to keep discovering up in those directions. But I have a sense of, yes, I'm on the way or I have some ways to go about doing that. [And perhaps they're more] (ph) difficult for me. You know. [44:49]
COUNSELOR: Of course.
PATIENT: (sighs) But you know, in some ways, I - you know, I think of my life is like this mess but when I stand back and I look at it I feel pretty good about the way things are going and I feel pretty lucky in a lot of ways. And I feel like I've gotten - it's luck but it's also been work. It's been stuff that - these are the fruits of ...
COUNSELOR: Hard work.
PATIENT: ... of work. Yes.
COUNSELOR: Years of hard work. [45:22]
PATIENT: Yes. And mistakes. But (pause) - but there are things I can feel good about. It's (pause) - yes. (inaudible at 45:47)
COUNSELOR: (inaudible) speaking. I'm thinking that's sort of another paradox in a way. And the paradox is on the one hand, I think you get pulled to try to look at things and understand things in a deeper way than many people do. And maybe sometimes that searching and trying to understand things in a deeper, more complex way - to understand all the facets of things - sometimes is an overwhelming, painful process. But the paradox is that with that there also comes a lot of richness that if you didn't sort of look for things in a deeper way then, you know, it might be simpler. Your head wouldn't hurt from trying to figure things out.
PATIENT: Right. Yes.
END TRANSCRIPT
