TRANSCRIPT OF AUDIO FILE:
______________________________________________________________________________
BEGIN TRANSCRIPT:


PATIENT: I finally did something. I think it was - yeah it was last week. We went to bed, and we were lying there and Charlie said, "Do you mind if I masturbate?" And I said, "Well, why do you have to masturbate? Why can't we just make love?" And he said, "Well, I'm tired and that takes too much time and everything." And I said, "Well, look, you know," I said, "This is ridiculous." I said, "It's late, but it's like this game we're playing all the time." And I just wouldn't let it go. You know, I just kept pushing it to the point that he had to say yes. And I really didn't find it that disagreeable, maybe because I was so aggressive about it and that I, more or less, like took over and made it to be the way that I wanted it to be, and I really think that he enjoyed it. I don't think that it was just a release for his emotions or anything like that. [2:25] 


COUNSELOR: And for you it was okay too.


PATIENT: Um-hmm.


COUNSELOR: And it wasn't as terrible as it used to be.


PATIENT: Well, you know, it's really funny, but I discovered this really kind of a weird thing, but I have a little phobia for being in closed-in places and being - felt like I'm in a position where I'm trapped. And I think that was the one thing that I always really disliked about intercourse the most is that someone had to lay on top of you, and it really just like suffocated me and I couldn't relax. Even if I was like half drunk or anything, I would immediately start to tense up, because it was that position. And it's so funny because of the problems that I have with my back now, you know, we had to do it another way, and I think that was one reason why I was able to relax and really concentrate on what I was doing and not thinking about how terrible it was and everything. So I commented on this to Charlie, and he kind of just laughed it off.


COUNSELOR: But you said it was better?


PATIENT: Yeah, because I just - it really just like hit me right at that time. And I said, "No, that I really think that that's been part of the problem." So I really felt like that was some kind of headway in comparison to what had been going on. [4:06]


COUNSELOR: That you were really able to say something and get it out, and not only that, but it turned out good too.


PATIENT: Right. I suppose that it's really just not even a beginning, but it's something. It's just that like when something like that happens, it's like we just - we don't hang onto it the same way. Maybe it's because we aren't older and I don't know. But I still have strong feelings of emptiness that I can't explain, and I don't know if it's really the fact that it's just, like, I really find it hard to concentrate on anything in particular. 


COUNSELOR: So different from the feelings of emptiness?


PATIENT: Well, in a way I think it is, because it's like I really don't have anything to concentrate on but myself. I don't have anybody else to worry about and I don't have anything really that can cause me any great concern. And it's like I'm really starting to get so hung up on my own self-interest that I'm really beginning to really pity myself and feel sorry for myself and it really bothers me, because I think that in some ways I have created a lot of my own problems. And that if I could get interested in other things, maybe our whole life would change. [6:03] 


I think that perhaps that's one reason why we are involved so much with this gay life, because I really make no effort to become closely associated with women, and so therefore we really don't have that many friends that are couples, and it creates a problem there, and I feel that a lot of that is my responsibility. Because I really feel like we're really getting too deep into this thing, and I really have strong feelings about it really not being that healthy.


COUNSELOR: And part of it is if you could move out, if you could do something to move out, that might free you up somehow.


PATIENT: Um-hmm. Because it's like we're becoming - really both of us, and I think maybe even myself more - we're just becoming too totally dependent on these people, and I think that's what it is. It worries me because I still have these doubts in my mind about Charlie's sexuality, and also I have doubts about my own, and I think that this constant surrounding of men is really not a healthy situation. Because even though I accept reality as far as the way they are, and that they apparently appear to be as happy as they can be, you start fantasizing. And it's bad because I don't - you know, I don't like that, I don't like to use people that I'm supposed to be so friendly with to satisfy something that I need. I don't know if that makes sense. [8:16]


COUNSELOR: You mean you start having fantasies about making love with them?


PATIENT: Yeah. And see, that really bothers me, because I think that really makes me feel guiltier than anything.


COUNSELOR: Because it's sort of like you're using them.


PATIENT: Um-hmm. It's like we always say we're going to break away, we're going to break away, but we really don't, and I think it's because both of us are like getting - no, I shouldn't say both of us, because I mean it's really not fair. I suppose that it's just because I feel - you know, I really don't feel threatened with them, and maybe this is why it's so easy to just continue on. 


But it seems like it's just getting more and more involved. Because it's like they have their own world, and we're like so involved with them that we can't really reciprocate in any way with other people too. It's like we have this secret little society off in the far away that no one knows about, and it really bothers me, so much that I just start really resenting that that's our whole social life. You know, what's wrong with us that we can't - or what's wrong with me that I have no desire to seek out the companionship of people who have the same interest as we do and are like us. [9:54]


COUNSELOR: Sounds like you're resenting Charlie and yourself both kind of at the same time.


PATIENT: Well, I suppose so, because really, I never had any type of knowledge or associations with anybody who was gay until Charlie and I got married. And I never found it, like, upsetting or anything. Otherwise, I suppose it never would have gotten this far. But it was like it started out very simply with, like, a single friend, and it has developed into like 20. And it's like it really bugs me, because for a while it was like just inside type of thing, but now it's like going out for dinner, and then we run into people that we know, and I'm like really uptight about it, because it really looks kind of goofy. 


I joke around about it, but I really sincerely believe that Charlie does enjoy their company, for what reason I don't know, and I suppose that this thought prays on my mind a lot because it's like - I mean I've never really seen anything to make me think. It's just that maybe because of our situation and the fact that we are involved with them so much, that it's like an excuse, I guess, that I could use for our own shortcomings. 


I really feel that it's really weird. I can't - I was trying to think over, like, what I talked about last week, and I really thought it was kind of odd that I should mention that fella and we only get so involved in talking about him because I really haven't given him much thought. It seems like whenever I really get down down, and I always seem to go back to him. [12:31]


COUNSELOR: Back to the last good relationship  - 


PATIENT: I suppose maybe that's it. Or I guess maybe because it would just be so great to be able to call someone like him and know that you could say whatever you wanted to say.


COUNSELOR: That's a new thing. You really want to break out of the circle of friends you have right now and it puts you uptight for a lot of reasons. You don't have your own friends, you feel a little like they're Charlie's friends, and maybe he's gay too, and so it's just a weird kind of situation.


PATIENT: Well, the thing is that I feel like if I did have a friend, or we had like a circle of friends and it was a mixed group, that it would be easier for me to relax and talk and maybe form a relationship with someone, and maybe this would help me, because it seems like I chronically need someone to talk to and I just can't do it with Charlie. I don't think that I could do it with any husband. But it's like they're really kind of uptight with me anyway. I mean they're like really great and everything, but I just know that I have limits as to what I can say and do. And I could never really go into my own personal problems with any of them, and it would ruin and just put too much strain on any type of relationship we have with them. [14:20]


And so I really have convinced myself that it's essential that we start to form, or at least that I start to form, friendships with people that are like me.


COUNSELOR: You know, today you sound like you're really wanting to break out of things, like you're really wanting to do something to change things somehow, and that's the one thing you want to do, like, "I really have to change now."


PATIENT: Well, it was funny, because I really got upset, like, for instance, about that book, and I hid it. And I guess it was sort of like I hid it because if it weren't out I wouldn't look at it or something. And you know, like a couple of times I was really tempted to go and get it. And I mean I didn't hide it that far, but I really didn't, and I don't think - I wasn't finding the urge because I mean it's like I didn't want to look at it because it was dirty, but I like really wanted to put my mind to do something and really do it, because I'm so weak, I really am. I just really make up my mind and set like thought into motion, but that they never go anywhere. And I think that the one thing that really bothers me about me so much is that I have just let so many things get out of hand with myself.


COUNSELOR: And now it's time for that to stop. [15:58]


PATIENT: Um-hmm. Because I just like - I really don't have anything but my marriage, and maybe that's why I'm so bored with it, because it doesn't offer me any great satisfaction. It's not just because of whom I'm married to or anything in particular, but it's just like an everyday occurrence. It's almost worse than living at home with your parents, because at least you had a job that you went to every day and contact with different people. 


But through my marriage it's been so easy for me to become really lazy about things and I really have to get out of that, even if it means going out and sitting with someone during the day and drinking coffee, which I always thought was such a waste of time, but I really think about what I do and it's really not any greater.


COUNSELOR: You really need to do something for you that's not just sitting around at home, newer people and to do things.


PATIENT: But it's really hard, because I really don't want to work. And I think that the reason that I feel that I need this is because it's so easy for me to become too preoccupied with myself. And that I've noticed like even when people will call me when I'm at home to just, say, talk, and they'll be talking to me and I won't even hear what they're saying. And they'll say, "Are you there?" I mean it's that obvious. That's when it really hits me, that like I can't even listen to other people. [18:09] 


And I've always found like reasons; like, well, it's because I do rulings (ph) here so I have to listen to that all the time. Or that was another reason why I always thought that I like really didn't want to seek out the companionship of other women, because I'm with them so much all the time, and I suppose in part that's true, but I'm not in that situation now and I shouldn't feel that way. And I just find it so easy to criticize what women do that are housewives and have children and all that, and how they lead such an existence that it's so easy for them to do nothing and still look like they're doing something, but I'm doing the same thing.


COUNSELOR: And now you see that, and now it's really clearly.


PATIENT: Um-hmm, like I criticize things that people do. I think that the thing that really brought it to light was a comment that I made last week to Charlie; about the way this girl washes clothes. And I said, "You know, she acts like its no earth-shattering thing," and he said, "Well, you know, it really isn't." And I thought that's really true. You know, I make big deals out of stuff like that because I am so compulsive about anything that's concentrated around the home, the clothes, and me. And I mean it's like so bad that I won't even let someone help me with the dishes, because I know I'm not going to like the way that they do it. And I'm so wrapped up in that kind of garbage that I really can't see anything else. [20:27]


COUNSELOR: It's like you're really disgusted at yourself for being so tied up in it.


PATIENT: Um-hmm. But I really can't - I don't know how I can prevent myself from breaking away from that. I mean that's really something that I feel is really embedded in me. Even when I went full time I was still that way, so I don't think work is the answer. And now that I'm home it's even worse, because it's like me and the work, that's all I think about, and everything else is like secondary. 


And then I used to think that I did all these things so that I would please Charlie, but I don't do them to please him, I do them to please myself. Because even though he enjoys the things done this way, I'm sure that if he were married to someone else who didn't do things that way but had other assets, that it wouldn't mean anything to him.


And it's like I just get so wrapped up in these things and I make so much importance out of them that  - 


COUNSELOR: It seems ridiculous to you.


PATIENT: Yeah, it really does.


COUNSELOR: And angry in a way that your life has come to this somehow, like you could be doing more. [22:02]


PATIENT: Yeah, it's like so meaningless. If I did things like that because I really and totally enjoyed it, I guess maybe I wouldn't think that much of it, but I don't really enjoy it that much. 


And I think that another reason why I'm always looking for these diversions, and I mean what other - well, what greater diversion is there for a woman who's like so wrapped up in stupid things, like maintaining a household, than like some kind of an exciting romantic affair with someone or something? I think that that's why I have become so preoccupied with this idea of having attention paid to me. It's like it's the only thing, really, that's different.


COUNSELOR: And since you hardly have any contact with anybody or anything for you as it is, then the easiest thing is to have some wild fantasy.


PATIENT: And it's like so - when I think about it, it's like really so unlike me, because the thing that always seemed to mean so much to me at one point in my life was trust and honesty with someone that you were particularly close to at that point, and somewhere along the line I really lost that. And I think it bothers me, because it's like I mean those are really two things that are so important in making a marriage work. And I'm always worried about what would happen if I married someone that wouldn't be someone I could trust and who wouldn't be totally honest with me, and here I find that I'm in this position that I was so concerned about, and it really bothers me. Because I have found that even though I haven't really done anything on a consistent basis with someone else, it's just the idea that I even think about it that bothers me. 


Because I mean like I'm sure that Charlie, like, admires a good looking girl, and perhaps he may even fantasize about it, but it's not constantly somebody in particular. And I don't think it's that constant with him, but it is with me, and even if it were with him, that's him. I mean me, I'm just worried about me right now, and why I feel that way, and why it's so important for me to, all of a sudden, become this wrapped up when these things were always, like, trusting and feeling like I could say whatever was on my mind without fear of causing a really major problem. 


I mean, like, I feel that if Charlie had any idea at all about the things that are really, really bothering me, that he probably would be totally unable to understand, because it would be so far from him, I mean, because it's so far for me. I don't know why I have started reacting this way. [26:47]


COUNSELOR: What do you think he'd say? I mean can you kind of act that out? What would he say if you said that to him?


PATIENT: Oh, I'm sure he would be very disturbed, there's no question about it, just knowing how he has even reacted to minor situations, like with his brother. There would be - I don't think - very little understanding on his part at all. Because it would be so deceitful to him in his eyes that I don't think he could even begin to understand why I have reached this point. 


I think that was why - I mean like I don't think that he even realized why I really wanted to start therapy, even as desperate as I made it sound at the time. Because I realized that I was really headed in the wrong direction and I had to know what was going on, why all of a sudden it was just so easy for me to become so totally involved with someone that I never knew before. And I think what was so frightening about it was that I really didn't think that it would stop there, but I don't think he ever understood that. Of course he couldn't, because he didn't know the whole story. [28:19] 


COUNSELOR: What I was thinking before is it might be helpful to try and really act out what he'd say. I mean like you could play your part and play his part right now and then say what you think he'd say. So why don't you try that and see if it gets anywhere.


PATIENT: Unfortunately, I don't think he'd say anything. I think that's why I'm hedging, because he becomes very quiet when things are being talked about. I've often thought about it; like what would happen if, by chance, he ever would find out, or if the situation would arise again and maybe this time the whole thing would backfire. I think probably what he would do is not say anything and just leave.


COUNSELOR: Forever leave, or just for then?


PATIENT: No, I think he'd probably come back.


COUNSELOR: He'd just leave and be hurt?


PATIENT: He'd be terribly hurt and, oh, probably just relive the nightmare all over again that he grew up with. That probably would be the thing that would really get to him the most.


COUNSELOR: So you're really afraid of repeating that for him?


PATIENT: Oh yeah, absolutely, because his mother had so many encounters with different men and really like made no secret of it from anyone that - I really, I don't know. It's hard to say what he would do because, like, he's always been so critical of his father because of the way in which he handled so many of the situations at home. But in many ways I think he probably would handle it the same way, and that would be just to completely crawl up into him. [30:36] 


COUNSELOR: You know he'd have a double blow because he'd end up being the same as his father (inaudible at 30:44).


PATIENT: Um-hmm. I don't know. I thought, you know - I think that's what frightens me more than anything is that I don't know how he would react. And I feel like if he actually did give me the chance - I've sat, you know, and imagined all these things that I would go into, trying to explain to him. I don't know anyhow else I could do it.


COUNSELOR: Yeah, it just keeps sounding like your fantasies about what would happen if you brought it out into the open would just be devastating. I mean it would be terrible, it would be the end of the world for him. He wouldn't recover.


PATIENT: Sometimes I think that. I mean, of course, I don't know if you can ever be sure of anything like this. But sometimes I feel if I have the opportunity, if I did say something, if perhaps it wouldn't be enough to make him realize that things are really much worse between us than I think he wants to admit to himself, and I think that's one reason why we really do talk so little. Because he has convinced himself that there's not that much wrong with our marriage, and I guess in many ways there aren't. [32:12]


COUNSELOR: But he's just alluding himself as long as you don't tell him how you really feel.


PATIENT: Right. But I just - see, I really think the whole thing would be inane, because I think that it would be like - I just don't think that I could begin to explain to him the... 


We went through a thing like this when we were dating, I think I told you about that, where I had - well, we weren't even engaged at the time. While he was in the first two months he was in the service, I had started to see this fella that I had been going with before, and there was really nothing at all between us at that point except just good friends. But something on one occasion did happen, where we did have a physical involvement, but it wasn't even intercourse. But I got so worked up about it that I just really convinced myself that I had to tell Charlie regardless of the circumstances, and I did, trying to make it sound very casual and, you know... 


And I never even told him whom it was with, but he became so worked up about it that it really frightened me; I hadn't expected it at all. I think at the time that I had hoped to use it as the weapon, to get him to make a more serious commitment to me, which he eventually did, but I think that - really, I don't think that had anything to do with it. That's why I don't think - I really wish that I could be honest and sit down. I know that I'd be doing a lot of it only to relieve my own conscience. [34:29]


COUNSELOR: But also to let him know how you feel.


PATIENT: Yeah, but I don't really think that's what would happen. Because I can't even understand why I did what I did, so I don't know how I could begin to explain it to him.


COUNSELOR: And yet, the other way you feel like he doesn't know at all how you feel and doesn't know what's important to you.


PATIENT: You know, and I think that, to him, whenever a situation like this arises that creates an extreme amount of jealousy in him, I don't think he even connects it with me personally. I mean I don't think he can honestly say that he says, "Now why is she doing that?" 


It's sort of like, all of a sudden, I become just a mental picture of everything that he hates in a woman, and it's not at all connected with me. And I remember saying one time after that - after one of the things that had happened and he started making all these accusations - I remember asking him why he felt that just because a situation which appeared to be wrong, why he felt that it was wrong. Is this how he felt that I would respond to a situation like that? And he immediately compromised by saying, "Well, anyone could," you know, including me, but I really don't think that's the answer. Because it's like I mean there has to be trust, but I mean, like, it's funny. I'm not really that hung up about him - it's like I guess I really resent in a way that he is so like overbearing at a time like that, but he won't go into it.


COUNSELOR: Like he just shuts you out?


PATIENT: Um-hmm. But I don't really know if - I really seriously doubt if I ever would say anything. I've just really come to the conclusion that it's not just - it prays on my mind that I just couldn't.


COUNSELOR: You've given up and it wouldn't work? [37:51]


PATIENT: I could never, ever say anything. I don't think I could even say anything if he'd come and say something to me first. You know, like then I would say, well, this is my chance now, I can unload my problems. I couldn't, I know, because it would be different in his mind. I can't think about it the way I would react to it. And I really think that I'm really bothered about now, I think, our... Could it happen again and would it happen, I'm sure it could, but would it happen again, or why I do these things, you know, why I can just lose - 


COUNSELOR: Seems like you want to figure out a way so that you're absolutely sure that that won't happen, and that's like a really bad thing to happen and you shouldn't  - 


PATIENT: Well, I think this thing really - it's not so much, like, to ensure that it won't happen, but why I even have to think about it at all. You know, why am I so worried about something? I mean that's, to me, something that I shouldn't even have to be bothered with, and I can't... That's I think what bothers more than anything is that I can't assure myself that I can't just quit thinking about it and not be worried about such a thing. That happens to other people, not to you. [39:46] 


And I think what hurts more than anything is that when people will talk about people having illicit affairs or something, and Charlie will comment and everyone will comment, and I feel like I have to just sit there with my mouth shut, and I think that really bothers me. Not that I want to talk about someone else, but it's like everyone's sitting there expounding about how terrible someone is, and there I sit. I mean like I really have gotten hung up about it. It's like something I just can't shake loose. And when I think about that and I think back to all the things that bothered me when I was young and how I was constantly living in fear that something I had done would be made open to other people and  - 


COUNSELOR: So in a way it's like living with some guilty secret and people are going to find out.


PATIENT: Yeah, well, it's sort of like when those things happened, they appeared to be serious, or I felt that they were.


COUNSELOR: The things when you were little? [41:38]


PATIENT: Umm. From little on to each stage when something happened. And I can't now imagine anything being worse than what I have now to cope with, and I wonder what's going to make that go away. I mean that's how I think about things; that something else is going to happen and it's going to make that thing go away and then I'm not going to have to think about that anymore.


COUNSELOR: Just another guilty secret, you mean?


PATIENT: Um-hmm. Well, not even necessarily that, but like anything at all. Sort of like when I got married. All those other things sort of like disappeared out of my mind.


COUNSELOR: So you'd been waiting for it to happen somehow.


PATIENT: Yeah. I felt like, oh, I'm safe now from all that. I don't have to worry about that anymore, that can't hurt me. So now I wonder what's going to happen. It's like  - 


COUNSELOR: Could it be possible that something would happen that would push this out?


PATIENT: Nothing. I mean I can't imagine what it is, but it's like that's the way I solve my problems. I mean I really let them work on me to such a point that I can't think of anything else, but then something will happen and I'll forget about it, and then that's really great. 


But I guess that this is just so much different, because I realize the seriousness of this, and I think that's what bothers me. It's just too serious for me. I can't - when I start thinking about the things that could happen from it, or because of it, it frightens me so bad that I just really get upset stomachs. And I keep telling myself, you know, this is absolutely ridiculous. You can't go through your life clinging to this one tragic afternoon, but then I think but that's how things happen, and then I go right back into it again.


COUNSELOR: It's so crazy, but there you are again. [44:06]


PATIENT: Um-hmm. It's just like I can't dismiss the fact either, that there's another person involved, and I think that's what bothers me. It's not just me. I could easily fight off any urge to say anything, but I have to worry about a third person, and that's what's really is frightening to me and that's what I can't cope with. 


And it's sort of like I find myself really doing peculiar things about it. Like out of the clear blue sky, I'll call him. Not because I want anything to do with him, but just so that I know that he's still my friend. I'm so frightened that he's going to turn on me, which is absolutely ridiculous.


COUNSELOR: You mean like turn on you himself?


PATIENT: Yeah, or say something to someone.


COUNSELOR: You have to make sure he's still an ally.


PATIENT: Um-hmm, which is, you know... And that's so wrong, because naturally, any type of telephone call is like an immediate response on my part and I just - after, I keep telling myself, now, that was really stupid. You're just leaving yourself wide open for problems. But it's like I just have to assure myself that he's still not, you know, angry, and you know, it just doesn't make sense to me. [46:00] 


And I think this is one reason why I have gotten so uptight about everything else, because this has really been too much for me. I can't cope with him, and there's no way. I even went to confession, because I thought that would really be kicker, you know, I'd really feel great after that. And after I left the confessional I was thoroughly - well, I mean I didn't even leave like everyone (ph) at the hospital that I went to confession. I thought for sure that the priest was going to say something to someone, which is absolutely ridiculous, but it was because he knew who I was, and he was there standing right next to me, and that was terrible. I mean it really drove me crazy for a long time. I was imagining all these crazy things about how he'd say something about it. I can't even - you know, when I think about it now, I realize how stupid it was, but I also think too about how things like this have caused me so many other problems.


COUNSELOR: Like what you did, or things like what?


PATIENT: Well, I mean in the way that I react to things now and this constant fear that I would be capable of... It's sort of like I don't even look at the whole thing as being human. Like if I could believe and truly feel that I'm just like everyone else and that other people have done things, and I can sit and talk about it, but I can't really believe it. If I could just - 


COUNSELOR: It's just you, right? [48:05]

 
PATIENT: - feel that it was just one of those weird human responses to something at that moment, I suppose that it would be okay, but I can't look at it that way. I've taken it so personally and embedded it into myself so much, that it's like taking over everything that I do and that I think of. And it's also, I think, why I have become at - before that point I realized that I was having these strange reactions to other men, but they didn't really mean anything to me because I was still safe. I wasn't in any way threatened because I hadn't done anything.


COUNSELOR: But now it might happen again.


PATIENT: Well, and it's not even so much - well, yeah, that it could happen again, or that it's just like - of course, now I'm petrified. I don't think it could happen again because I know that I'm really - I would never be capable of going through it again. I would probably just lose all control of myself. I mean I just would never be able to keep it in me.


COUNSELOR: But what you were saying before was something like you felt so badly about it and somehow you were exceptionally horrible for having done that. It's not like something people do when they're under strain. Like you really sinned. [50:00]


PATIENT: Um-hmm, and like I just let everybody down. Like, I mean who knows about it? But I let everybody down. That's the way I feel.


COUNSELOR: You didn't do the right thing. You disappointed people?


PATIENT: Yeah. I feel that I just would like - everyone would just be totally shocked that I could ever do such a thing. That's how I feel about it. But on the other hand - I think this is what is more frightening to me than anything - is that I'm not sorry I did it, and I think that's what really scares me.


COUNSELOR: That you could do such a horrible thing that could be looked on so badly by people and then not feel guilty about it.


PATIENT: Um-hmm. No, I feel guilty. I feel guilty about it, but I'm not sorry I did it, and I think that's what bothers me more than anything, you know, is that there's just such a complete opposite feeling about it; sort of like I could do it again if I wouldn't feel so guilty about it. That's what a feeling.


COUNSELOR: People wouldn't look down on it?


PATIENT: Um-hmm.


COUNSELOR: Well, it would be all right with you. It might even be fun.


PATIENT: Yeah. But I can't... I mean that's why I'm so confused within myself. I mean I realize that - or I mean I feel anyway that I shouldn't be feeling this way. [51:56]


COUNSELOR: But then you do.


PATIENT: It's such a real life type of thing. I mean I talk about fantasies, and I do have fantasies, but to really, when they start to become a reality, that's when I realize that, I'm in trouble.


COUNSELOR: But you're in trouble with other people, you're saying, anyway. If it weren't for them, you could just go off romping in the fields and do whatever you wanted.


PATIENT: Well, yeah, but I suppose that like that's kind of silly too, because there are always other people. Maybe I think some of the reasons that I am this way is because I'm, like, so dependent on other people for everything that I wish I could be so independent and so carefree that I really wouldn't need anybody, and that I could be the one to walk away when I felt like it was over.


COUNSELOR: I get the image of you again really wanting to break out somehow as doing the force (ph) of the people that's kind of stopping you, saying "Wait, don't do that," and then you look back and you can't break out. [53:32]


PATIENT: I think that if I could have some satisfactory employment (ph) of my own, I'd feel that I would probably eliminate a lot of these problems. I doubt if they would eliminate a lot of the sexual problems that I have, because that's just something that's been built up over a lot of years of problems that I have encountered. But I might not find it so important. 


I think that the word "important" is what really bothers me; that it has become to me nothing but a lot of depression and worry. And I keep asking myself, does it really mean that much to you, you know, do you really - it's like do you really think that that's like all there is? And I suppose in a way it's something that I've never been able to really ever find to have any real meaning. I've never been able to take a stand on it in my own mind, one way or the other. It's like there's always been just everything that was connected with it was always bad, and that it's not going to change now that I'm married, and that I can... I suppose that's why I'm so inquisitive about it. It's like I'm looking for an answer that will suit me and not someone else, and I can't find it. [56:08]


COUNSELOR: And that's really frustrating.


PATIENT: Yeah. Because I don't think that, like, it could have anything to do with... In that regard, I don't think it has anything to do with Charlie at all. I'm bored with the sex that I have in my marriage, because it's so bland, but I don't really know if I would be capable of participating in any other kind of sex. You know, it's like that's what I think is so frustrating. You know, it's like  - 


COUNSELOR: You don't know if you have the capacity, you mean, that maybe you wouldn't be able to do it, or you'd turn off, or what?


PATIENT: No, I probably would be too embarrassed. I mean it's like that's the one thing that really bugs me about sex, I think, more than anything. I mean it even bothers me when other people tell me about their sex life; I don't really care to hear about it. I think the only sex that I ever enjoy is something that I create in my own mind that I don't have to share with anybody, because I'm just too uptight to share it with anyone.


COUNSELOR: So what you're saying is, in a way, is you really would like it to be different and you really would like it not to be boring, but then you're afraid you'll get stuck somewhere, you'll be too embarrassed, or you'll have to deal with it because you don't want to have it in your head. [58:02]


PATIENT: Well, I would be - it's like with me and sex there's no freedom at all. It's like no matter how much any type of sexual activity that I could participate in, I would never be truly free to enjoy it. Whether it would be with Charlie or anyone, I would always be so uptight about it.


COUNSELOR: But then you're just resigned to just block it. Is it really that way?


PATIENT: Well, I can't - I don't know how else it could be. I mean I don't know how I could get it to be any other way. Because I've tried to be casual about it, like really casual, but I don't - I can't even be casual about it. I can't even really laugh at a dirty joke because it just isn't - I really (inaudible at 59:04) talk just really turns me off.


COUNSELOR: Why does it turn you off? 


PATIENT: I don't know.


COUNSELOR: I mean what is it?


PATIENT: Just something. It makes me - I can't stand it. I get really upset about it. I used to think that it was because I always thought things like that were personal, like shouldn't have to go around and tell people what you do with your husband. But that's not really what bothers me, I think. It's just the idea that I just don't like to sit and listen to it.


COUNSELOR: Is it like you have better things to do? [59:48]


PATIENT: No, it just bothers me. I can't react to it. I don't know how to react to it. It's like I get... If somebody starts messing around in a party and starts to get particularly obnoxious, everyone will immediately notice how uptight I get, and pretty soon everyone starts laughing at me instead of at the nut who's messing around, because I really do. I get so I can't laugh for anything. I look like someone's sticking pins in me. I get really like this God-awful strained look on my face. And I think it's really because I'm afraid to show any type of reaction to it, for fear that I'm going to show something in myself that I don't want other people to know about, just like I couldn't look at that book in front of anyone.


COUNSELOR: So people will see that you are dirty or  - 


PATIENT: I don't know. Maybe that's it. Maybe it's because I'm afraid I don't know what they'll see. I get uncomfortable in almost any situation like that, even when I go to the show. And if there's any type of nudity or lovemaking in the movie, I get very, very uncomfortable, and it can be with Charlie or without him. It doesn't make any difference who I am with. I just get really uptight about it. I just don't have any type of normal reaction toward sex.


COUNSELOR: You know, it seems like a whole lot of things you've been saying are like that, like you're - you're really afraid people would see you doing wrong or really looking the wrong way or doing the wrong thing or something really bad that you do [61:59]


PATIENT: Well, it's like I think what it is, is that I guess I always did grow up with the idea that sex was something really dirty; I mean I'm positive of that because of the way I was raised, and what I heard in the home and what I saw, and the way my mother reacted to different things, and at no particular point in my life was I ever able to break free of this. You know, regardless of whether it was someone who I was just going out with or if it was someone that I was really seriously involved with at that particular period of time. 


Almost everyone that I ever had any type of relationship with had a terrible time with me. I mean I can appreciate that people are going to sit there and say, sure, it's okay, you're not doing anything wrong, because they want to satisfy their own needs. But I mean I think that some of the people, some of them, were really sincere in trying to make me understand that because I reacted a certain way didn't mean that it was wrong; it was just something that you just feel as a human being, but I never could grasp that. It never meant anything to me.


COUNSELOR: You like couldn't believe it.


PATIENT: Um-hmm. I mean I really could never understand why I would respond the way I would. And I think maybe that's why I never learned how to really control my responses, because I never understood them to begin with; that  - 


COUNSELOR: In a way you're saying no, that you just have less control. [63:57]


PATIENT: Well, I mean like when it's a group of people, yes, I can very well, but I mean do I really control it? Because it's so obvious that what I'm doing, that it's even apparent to other people.


COUNSELOR: You say something like you should be able to control it or...


PATIENT: Well, that I feel like I should be able to cope with it in the different situations that it arises. Like if it arises at a party, I should be able to sit there and laugh and take it for what it is right then at that point. Or that if I'm sitting in a movie I should be able to just sit there and watch it as part of the story and part of life, but I can't put anything together; whereas, it's like all one big lump thing and that any type of response I have to it is wrong.


COUNSELOR: You really need to start taking that lump apart, particularly (inaudible at 65:07) but that seems to be what you're saying; that it is all in one clump and you've probably look at it exactly because (inaudible at 65:19) and that's all there is.


PATIENT: Yeah. So anyways, I just hope that... I know this is really silly, but I have to ask you a question. I asked Charlie about it and he said, "Well, ask Linda. I don't know anything about it." It's been bothering me a lot. It's about the program and everything, and about how the tapes are going to be used, and I just am really uptight about it.


COUNSELOR: You mean whether or not anybody would hear them?


PATIENT: Well, yeah. I assume that people are going to hear them and like I 


Wondered, you know  - 


COUNSELOR: It's a research thing and I think that - I don't know what the research is about, but I know the person is using them. I think what happens is that he just does whatever data analysis that he needs to do on the tapes and then they're - I think they're erased.


PATIENT: Well, the thing that - I mean like you've already answered my question. In the very beginning, when we first started, you know, Charlie had told me that they probably were going to use for classes.


COUNSELOR: I don't know.


PATIENT: And that it was always bothering me, and I think that's why at certain points I've held back in saying things that I've really had the desire to say, because this has really been - I really get uptight about these questions.


COUNSELOR: No, these are not used for classes. I mean that would be - I would never do that. Unless I asked, and I'd never ask anyway, because it's traumatic really.


PATIENT: No, I mean that - I think that will make a difference too. I'm sorry I didn't ask before, but I don't expect that it was silly, but anyway that's - I'm glad I know that now.


COUNSELOR: Okay.


PATIENT: All right. You know I was going to ask you too (inaudible at 67:41) would you want me to come earlier, or would there be any possibility?


COUNSELOR: Actually on Wednesday I can, because someone's  - 


PATIENT: Well, Wednesday's the best day for me (inaudible at 67:53) leader of the softball team.


COUNSELOR: Also, we have two more sessions before I go away, and then I'm going to be back the first week in August, which that will make it August 2nd I guess would be our next appointment after (inaudible at 68:21).


PATIENT: Will I be coming here, or move?


COUNSELOR: I don't know. I'm not sure whether we'll move or what will happen. I think so. I (inaudible at 68:33) office yet, but I'm going to try and move. I'll go ahead and [set it up] (ph).


PATIENT: Okay. Well, whatever just let me know.


COUNSELOR: Okay.


PATIENT: Okay, well, see you next week.


COUNSELOR: Okay. Bye-bye.


END TRANSCRIPT
