TRANSCRIPT OF AUDIO FILE:
______________________________________________________________________________
BEGIN TRANSCRIPT:
COUNSELOR: Interview 17. Interview 17.
CLIENT: After all the heat-
COUNSELOR: Stuff is really a bit too hot (inaudible@ 0:11) 
CLIENT: Yeah. Jeez. It was like I was I'm boiling, roasting in the sun on Saturday and now I'm freezing to death. At this rate I'm going to die of something from changing temperatures. I don't know.
COUNSELOR: (inaudible@ 0:29)
CLIENT: Yeah. Probably will. [Weekend is more fun] (ph).
COUNSELOR: How was your picnic?
CLIENT: Huh?
COUNSELOR: [Or your overnight picnic?] (ph)
CLIENT: It was a weekend camping trip kind of thing and we left Friday about five. Got to this place at (inaudible@ 0:50) and decided we'd have a cookout on the beach. 
COUNSELOR: Where was it? On the lakeside? 
CLIENT: Yeah, it was in Lake Erie. It was in Ohio. (sneezes)
COUNSELOR: Sounds like you caught a cold. 
CLIENT: I know. I do a lot of sneezing. It's either I'm getting a cold or allergies are starting or something like that. So I had to carry all this crap must have been like a mile. And ate so much crap. And then we all went back to the cabin - like the staff had a separate cabin. And then, God! I was sick Saturday morning. All I could do was lay in the sun all day. I was incapable of any other energy for doing anything. It was a really nice weekend. It was fun. [1:40]
COUNSELOR: Take a lot of pictures?
CLIENT: Oh, some. Not a lot. I took some. But it was kind of nice. I - Don got into town on Monday. And you know I left here Friday. I really, really felt good. I guess I felt most positive or most good about pursuing the sex thing and getting into that. And I just felt good about opening that up.
COUNSELOR: Being able to kind of talk about it.
CLIENT: Yeah. And Monday when Don got here - he got here in the evening - and (inaudible @ 2:40) but everything sort of just I had tried not think about anything. I thought about things during the weekend in a good way. But Monday night everything just came up to my head.
COUNSELOR: Worrying about (inaudible@ 3:02)
CLIENT: Yeah. Like well I guess lots of things you know? But I felt like everything was much stronger in terms of you know we were playing around for a while. And the mental block just started building and it got worse.
COUNSELOR: As you played around the more it came to your head? 
CLIENT: Yeah.
COUNSELOR: [What kind of a block do you have?] (ph)
CLIENT: Things like I just couldn't take my mind off of it. And I didn't - I couldn't say anything to Don until after we'd had intercourse. And I felt really bad. I told him I felt really crummy about that. And I don't know if I said it Monday night or Tuesday. But sometime I told him that we had started talking about it. And I felt good about starting to deal with. You said Monday night something about it being in my head and I said, "Yeah, I know that." [And a lot of things I know but - I guess it was yesterday afternoon when I got home from school and he took a nap and played around I said that there'd been a guy in our class Tuesday morning...psychoanalytically ranted so] (ph) and I said how he was talking about going into the past and towards working through things. And I've also started getting into Gestalt's stuff - reading it anyway. And as the guy was talking I kept thinking, "You know that's fine to understand what things are contingent upon going on today." But at the moment I kept thinking but they aren't being very helpful to me working through this block. [5:31]
COUNSELOR: It's kind of maybe it's fine but it doesn't - for you it's not a solution.
CLIENT: Yeah, it hasn't helped resolved anything at all to do that. And so I was telling Don that you know how you can understand why something may exist. Why an emotional conflict or whatever it may be exists. Like I understand in a lot of ways I think why I have a mental block but that doesn't help it disappear, you know? And I guess just since Don got here it's really created a lot of turmoil inside of me.
COUNSELOR: [Possible its kind of raised up kind of a little those conflicts you do feel about sex and maybe it'd be right before you'd really be upset about it.] (ph)
CLIENT: Yeah. And we haven't had intercourse since I've had an abortion and I certainly wasn't up for that when I got back. And there's been a period of about two and half, three weeks I haven't seen him. And I guess I really was excited about his coming and that poured on top of it and feeling kind of horny. 
COUNSELOR: You really wanted him.
CLIENT: Yeah. And I don't know. It's just really strange.
COUNSELOR: [Not to mention you know it's kind of like really looking forward to and really wanting to] (ph) (inaudible@ 7:17)
CLIENT: Yeah.
COUNSELOR: Because it was just so upsetting for you. Everything was there stronger than ever.
CLIENT: Yeah. Yeah. And what happens a lot of times - I guess this is more so after I have an orgasm - I have these if I'm going to go sleep or something I have really kind of wild nightmarish kind of dreams. And this happened in the course of Monday evening. I was kind of conscious of that.
COUNSELOR: This is after you have an orgasm? 
CLIENT: Yeah. And I don't know what the content is but I know I'm really restless and just -
COUNSELOR: You never can kind of remember the dreams specifically but they feel just terribly upsetting and disorienting? [Is it something like that?]
CLIENT: Yeah.
COUNSELOR: Like you know you're having nightmares but don't remember what they are? 
CLIENT: Yeah. And not so much a nightmare-
COUNSELOR: [In so much as a physical kind of -] (ph)
CLIENT: Yeah. Yeah. It's not a really frightening, but it's like really strange. It's just really strange. Very restless kind of thing. And I wake up and I'm really startled.
COUNSELOR: Disoriented?
CLIENT: Yeah. Now I can remember one time that I was dreaming and the dream was about something like I had to go to the bathroom but I couldn't wake up and go. I couldn't wake up and get out of bed and go to the john.
COUNSELOR: There you were caught in this dream having to go to the bathroom but couldn't. 
CLIENT: Yeah. And that's the only one I can really remember. And I suspect that it probably recurs more than once. I don't remember the -
COUNSELOR: [Kind of like there's an emotional quality there. I can't quite put my hand on it. It's kind of like caught wanting to break through to something but not being able to.] (ph)
CLIENT: I don't know.
COUNSELOR: But it's also something wanting to do something that's [foul or that's thought of that's foul.] (ph)
CLIENT: Yeah. I guess the feeling I wake up with and I usually can wake up and find myself - sometimes I find myself waking up and I've been knocking against Don or trying to push him out of my way. Like my bed is not very big in the first place and I'm a restless sleeper. But I find myself pushing him over like I need more room to sleep in. And I- [10:18]
COUNSELOR: [So there are struggles going on in your sleep it sounds like.] (ph)
CLIENT: Yeah. Yeah.
COUNSELOR: Kind of like [the struggle going on inside you.] (ph)
CLIENT: Yeah. I suspect that something about the dreams are sexual but I don't know what the content is.
COUNSELOR: [Again it doesn't sound like it's positive kind of pleasurable sexuality. It's like the content is probably sexual but you're struggling with it and there's a struggle going on with you and the sexual aspects of it.] (ph)
CLIENT: Yeah. Yeah. And that happens quite often.
COUNSELOR: I mean it is kind of interesting what you said that it does happen after you've had an orgasm.
CLIENT: Yeah.
COUNSELOR: [That there are a lot of leftover feelings about having an orgasm perhaps.] (ph) 
CLIENT: Yeah.
COUNSELOR: [Like you don't just feel good having it but it makes it a whole lot] (ph) (inaudible@ 11:24)
CLIENT: The feeling I have is that - yeah, like I want Don to be inside of me you know? And so there's satisfaction but there's something missing out of it you know?
COUNSELOR: Is this the feeling in your dream or is this the feeling in real life? 
CLIENT: Yeah, in real. In real.
COUNSELOR: In real life? You want him to be inside of you but it just is not a climax to it.
CLIENT: Yeah. Yeah. I guess since Monday - no I don't guess, I have been and I'm really kind of bugged about that off and on. I sort of feel really just futile.
COUNSELOR: [Kind of like it's a hopeless dilemma and a hopeless struggle. And you just can't overcome it. 
CLIENT: Yeah I think that's it.
COUNSELOR: Yeah, you look kind of fed up with yourself.
CLIENT: Yeah, I guess I am. It's like looking for something to - or I guess it's like looking for an answer or something that will resolve the block I have. And like I can say to Don, it's like the block has become the block. Whatever it is that initially was in the way is probably secondary.
COUNSELOR: The block is the fact you think you have a block. 
CLIENT: Yeah. 
COUNSELOR: But you do. (inaudible@ 13:10)
CLIENT: Yeah. I just feel really discouraged.
COUNSELOR: [Yeah, especially since you're kind of looking forward to it ] (ph) (inaudible@ 13:29)
CLIENT: Uh-hmm. 
COUNSELOR: [It's kind of like there it was and there it was such a struggle and so much trouble] (ph) (inaudible@ 13:43)
CLIENT: Yeah. Also added on to it was thoughts of having come closer to Gary and that was built in too in terms of the kinds of things that were going through my mind Monday evening.
COUNSELOR: [It's kind of like your whole life is attached to it.] (ph)
CLIENT: Yeah. Oh, yeah.
COUNSELOR: [It's kind of like if it could really work with Don and that takes a lot of] (ph) (inaudible@ 14:17)
CLIENT: Sure.
COUNSELOR: [It sounds like you have a lot put on it.] (ph)
CLIENT: And you know, I guess I that's what happened Scott and I guess I was trying, as I anticipated Don's coming, I guess I recognized that possibility. And tried to be very aware of not getting hung up. 
Not expecting a great deal. Yeah, like don't put a lot of expectations on what may happen when you guys go to bed Monday night or whenever.
COUNSELOR: [You tried to stop yourself from] (ph) (inaudible@ 14:58)
CLIENT: Yeah. Yeah. Like I was okay and comfortable until we got to bed.
COUNSELOR: [And then kind of there it was, the thing you had thought about, the thing you had been attached to.] (ph)
CLIENT: Uh-hmm. 
COUNSELOR: [And kind of like you did have some of the things] (ph) (inaudible@ 15:24) You see what I mean?
CLIENT: Uh-hmm. 
COUNSELOR: [You're just putting so much on it.] (ph)
CLIENT: Yeah. You know like I was really conscious of all that. And I really fought the thoughts starting to come into my head but I couldn't stop them.
COUNSELOR: Yeah it's kind of like that may even - like that compounded the dilemma and made it even more because you had dilemma, tried to stop your dilemma, you got into a dilemma about having a dilemma. Do you understand what I'm saying? 
CLIENT: Yeah.
COUNSELOR: (inaudible@ 15:56)
CLIENT: Yeah. Yeah. I just don't know - and I thought about this in anticipation of coming here today - where the hell do I go from here? Sort of like I keep thinking that there must be something else or there must be some other way of -
COUNSELOR: [There must be some other way of getting at it to kind of make you feel different about it or there must be some other solution [to kind of look at the causes and -] (ph)
CLIENT: Yeah. Yeah. And I guess it also came into my mind then, I also kind of looked at it and said it may take a long time to work this kind of thing out. And then the thought was, "Well, sh*t! I only have three or four more times to come here to look at it here anyway and that's the end of that. And that was sort of alarming I guess.
COUNSELOR: [Kind of like you saw that if you couldn't do it by the end of here, my God, where were you?] (ph)
CLIENT: Yeah. I thought, well, okay that' s not the end of the world either. I can go see somebody someplace else and pick up on that.
COUNSELOR: [Or you might find that it can actually be worked out by yourself. That is a possibility.] (ph)
CLIENT: Yeah. Yeah. I guess I don't put much faith in it right now. 
COUNSELOR: [Yeah, the difference there is that here you are like - how can I put it? - naturally if you haven't done anything with the opportunity you don't have a lot at stake in it. It's not the best test. It may take - it's a fact of life - it just may take a long time, it may not. It could be anything. But the thing is - the point because it didn't happen once well it might not happen the next time.] (ph) It might take thirty, forty, fifty, could be a year. But that's the thing about sex is that practice at loosens you up about it. But in a way, and I feel like I'm giving advice here, worrying about it doesn't it. 
CLIENT: Yeah. Yeah.
COUNSELOR: I mean you know that.
CLIENT: Yeah.
COUNSELOR: But in thinking this is my last time [or I have only four times here] (ph) that kind of stuff - I mean I know its real stuff - but it doesn't - I guess you feel kind of like you're futile and at the end of the rope but -
CLIENT: Well, I don't feel like I'm at the end of rope. It's being impatient.
COUNSELOR: Yeah, you want to be -
CLIENT: It's having lived through this for two and half, three years and just being impatient. I'm sick and tired of dealing with this and not being able to work it through. And I guess that's the futility of it, not that I - I don't think I've lost complete faith in myself or anything like that. 
COUNSELOR: But it's the futility of the situation.
CLIENT: Uh-hmm.
COUNSELOR: In it's futility, [you're kind of a normal sexual being.] (ph)
CLIENT: Yeah. I also place a lot - and this is the beginnings of again building something up as I anticipate that the situation becomes much more optimal to work this through and Don and I can live together continually and not just seeing each other a couple days a week or so and then being separated for a while. So I put some faith -
COUNSELOR: [So you've had but then you kind of - you put faith in you'll be together but then you kind of worry that you're setting that up.] (ph)
CLIENT: Yeah, in a way. Although I can see now too in having built up Monday even though I really didn't want to, it got done inside subconsciously. [20:06]
COUNSELOR: And then you have a fight about doing it too, which doesn't help. Or not doing it.
CLIENT: Yeah. And I guess I can anticipate that also happening in September but the being able to be together all the time is -
COUNSELOR: (inaudible@ 20:23)
CLIENT: Yeah. There's a better chance of being able to work it through. And I felt, "Man it's really been a long time since I've seen Don." And I felt really bad about not feeling like I could share with him my experience with Gary you know? 
COUNSELOR: [I think that was just something that had to be left out.] (ph)
CLIENT: Yeah and I felt kind of stranger for a while. In fact I still do. And things happen to both - and I guess it's since having become pregnant and having gone through most of that by myself because it was not possible for us to be together through that all.
COUNSELOR: [It's kind of like there's a lot of you and your feelings that haven't been shared with him. And that kind of does make a whole lot of you feel strange to him.] (ph)
CLIENT: Uh-hmm. And I guess I'm beginning to feel guilty about going away for the summer.
COUNSELOR: In respect for seeing him? 
CLIENT: Yeah. Although on the other hand, I'm not that worried about it because, hell, I've got the rest of my life with him. And I'm sure that separation isn't going to be that serious. We've been separated that long before. And I'm not going to be gone as long as I'd expected because he didn't get the job. So I have to get a job.
COUNSELOR: (inaudible@ 21:54)
CLIENT: Yeah. And that thing has worked out kind of well. Don has really been very strong and very confident himself about not getting that job and really comes away feeling much better about it than I do. 
COUNSELOR: [It doesn't take - he didn't get the job?] (ph)
CLIENT: No, I hadn't told you that part.
COUNSELOR: No.
CLIENT: Yeah. Yeah. He didn't get it and I was really upset about it. Not so much that he didn't get the job as the kind of way - Tim's the fellow that we'd ask to share in the ceremony and marrying us. I guess I really feel bitter about him treating Don the way he did. 
COUNSELOR: You haven't told me anything about Don and Tim so I don't know- 
CLIENT: Oh, I'm sorry. I thought I had. I told you he'd been offered a job for Upward Bound for next year which is where we both worked together.
COUNSELOR: You told you worked there.
CLIENT: Yeah.
COUNSELOR: [And he tried to help you.] (ph)
CLIENT: Yeah and then he got the job I had. I guess it was in December or something like that. Tim offered him the job. The guy that has it now is going to leave. 
COUNSELOR: [Is this up in Milwaukee?] (ph)
CLIENT: Yeah well he can go to school. He can stay in school in Milwaukee and worked at the job too. And I don't know what Tim said to him but Don said he offered the job to him if Michael decided not to take again. And he didn't think he would. So then I - about a month or so passed - I said, "Check with Tim." He hadn't heard from him. Oh, we had to wait till April to hear if the funds came through. Well, we heard the funds came through and Tim hadn't said anything to Don. I said, "Talk to him." So he finally talked to him and Tim said that he was going to turn it over to the advisory council, which is a group of parents and community members. Which is a very good thing. He should have done it a long time ago. But I'd felt then like what was he doing to Don? That's like - starting to mess him over and I didn't understand that because they'd been very close. And Tim's been very sensitive to Don's having been through some problems and helped him. [24:09]
So then I told, "Well check around in the County and see where things fit for you and how things look and ask Tim what he thinks you ought to do toward making things more positive for you getting a job. Well Tim wasn't very helpful and finally he set up a meeting with the advisory council and it turns out that Tim wants this other kid to get the job. A black kid. And that became extremely difficult to accept because there's no way that any black guy is going to get accepted in the County among a group of Indians no matter how good a worker he is. He's black and Indian people - there's a real barrier there. Ain't nothing Christian's going to be able to do. Christian's a guy we've both worked with and have known. And he's a really good fellow and he's very capable. And there's like nothing against that except what the hell was Tim doing? It sounded like he's really f**king Don over. So the meeting came and Don presented himself and Tim was very cold to Don. And Don's cousin, a girl, was another person who was trying to get the job. That's not uncommon. Most people in that County are related to him. 
COUNSELOR: Big family.
CLIENT: Yeah. Everybody's related.
COUNSELOR: No birth control. 
CLIENT: Very little. And so he called Thursday night. This was after that day I had spent (inaudible@ 25:38) Friday morning he called very early to say that he had gotten up and called Tim. Well when he told me Thursday night I was quite angry about the whole situation. I could justify what Tim was doing even if he was doing it because he thought Christian needed the money, the job, the support more than anyone else. I still couldn't buy into it. Because to me he was also f**king over the County by...So he called Tim and the council decided along with Tim that Stacy, Don's cousin, should get the job. They had convinced him that Christian just wouldn't work at all. And I can understand why Don might not get because in some ways he's accepted and cared for a great deal by the people in that County. On the other hand, he's someone who's succeeding and that's unacceptable in a very subtle, underlying way. [26:37]
Okay, so getting the job was not - hadn't become what was so serious. It was the way Tim had treated him. And he was upset, but when got here Monday he had really worked it through and he felt pretty good about it. He didn't feel bitter about not getting the job. I think he still feels uncomfortable about Tim, less so than I do. But it also works out that I guess had kind of been pushing him to get the job. Like really encouraging, "This is really great." Out of my own needs because I didn't want to have to look for a job. I wanted to do it at my own pace. And I didn't want to have to take that responsibility for us being married at least to start with. And I realize that -[27:29]
COUNSELOR: [You must feel embarrassed that -] (ph)
CLIENT: Yeah, I feel like that was really very shortsighted of me and really very selfish not to be - well what I recognize now is that it was asking an awful lot of Don to go to school full-time and work full-time. When he has gone through a whole hell of a lot of crap just to get himself through school.
COUNSELOR: [Yeah. Kind of you feel like selfish because he had worked himself through school but you want to have the option of looking for a job leisurely even though you don't have school full-time.] (ph) 
CLIENT: Yeah. Yeah. What I began to - Don comes from extreme poverty and I don't know how the hell he's every made it where he is now because the odds are against anybody coming out of that place. And I just realized how I guess it's selfish and how dumb I've been. Success has been pretty easy for me. Things have been handed to me. I haven't had to deal with the odds like he has. And I feel really bad about recognizing, "Man, I've been pushing you to take the job." And I guess one thing that came to him Thursday night - and he said this to the people - He said, "I'm not going to let you all push me around anymore, force me into things that I'm not - don't want or not ready for." And I guess he'd sort of begun rationalizing or accepting that he might not get the job. But he's working through [also, "I'm better off not getting it.] (ph) And certainly he can anticipate I'm capable of getting a decent job. And he said that to me too. And I began to think; we've been talking about next year applying to graduate school where we can get a scholarship because he comes from a minority. And I said to him then after realizing what I had been doing kind of unaware, "Have I been pushing you about graduate school. It just occurred to me that maybe I've been doing that too," because I want to get out of the mid-west. And it's an easy way to get out. [29:45]
And he said no I hadn't. At least I hadn't yet been doing that and he really did want to do that. And he also said, "I'm not going to let you do that to me. I'll let you know if you start pushing me about it." So in that sense I felt like we'd worked through something on that end. He's going to be around for a week and I feel a lot of things inside needing to be talked about around getting married, around the summer.
COUNSELOR: [How you're going to live too.] (ph)
CLIENT: Yeah. He's bringing up more and more about the fact that I'm going to be gone for part of the summer.
COUNSELOR: That kind of makes you feel bad? Guilty?
CLIENT: Well, yeah. 
COUNSELOR: [Because he said that it bothers him?]] (ph)
CLIENT: Oh, yeah. He says, "You're really going to go away all summer, huh?" Well, he hasn't said that both -
COUNSELOR: [He kind of says, "Are you really going to go away," leaving you the opportunity to say, "Well..."] (ph)
CLIENT: Yeah. Umm, I'm trying to think. I don't think he's blatantly asked me not to go. He hasn't done that. He won't do that because he's sensitive enough to know that that's not the way to deal with me. 
COUNSELOR: [But he's kind of still bringing it up.] (ph)
CLIENT: Yeah. He's saying that. 
COUNSELOR: [So then the effect of it all is it is making you feel guilty.] (ph)
CLIENT: Yeah on hand it is and - well, guilty but also now - well, he's going to go to summer school. And I don't want to sit around and rot all summer. And I figure if I can at least go away for June and July and come back in August, I can look for a job and we can be together that month. I feel guilty because he's suggesting that it's not right of me to do that. That he doesn't understand how I could leave him when I have a choice to stay. [31:54]
COUNSELOR: [Kind of like, sure it's nice to get away and have a vacation but he's kind of saying to you, "Isn't to be with me more important to you than your having a vacation?"] (ph)
CLIENT: Yeah, that what he's saying. He said that. Something like, "I'm not more important to you am I?" and I guess the way I feel about is, "Damn, I've been planning to this and I'm not sure if we hadn't decided to get married if the pressure would be the same. I don't know. 
COUNSELOR: (inaudible@ 32:28) 
CLIENT: Uh-hmm.
COUNSELOR: [But I kind of sense, it's like in your mind you don't really want to look at it like it's not weighing vacation against being with you. It's kind of like the two things are - it's kind of like he's saying to you, "Is having a vacation more important than being with me." And I kind of sense you really want to be able to say, "Well it's really not one or the other or one is more important than the other. It's that they're not mutually exclusive.] (ph) (inaudible@33:03) 
CLIENT: Yeah. I said that to him. I said -
COUNSELOR: [But I sense you don't quite really feel that way.] (ph)
CLIENT: Well, he's putting a value judgment on my going away. And I haven't done that.
COUNSELOR: [Well, I sense you do feel somewhat a value judgment. I suppose you do feel a little guilty and bothered by it.] (ph)
CLIENT: I feel bothered by it in the sense that he's pushing it. I'm not bothered by the fact that I've decided to do that. And I don't consider -
COUNSELOR: You're bothered because it bothers him.
CLIENT: Yes. Yeah. I'm bothered and I don't want it to bother him. I don't want him to feel angry with me at all for leaving for a couple of weeks or a couple of months. Like I said, I've planned this and I wanted to do this and it's falling into my lap because I've had a scholarship and I earned enough money last summer that I could put it away. And now I'm being torn because here's Daisy, who has no other transportation to go to traveling than me -
COUNSELOR: And she's depending on you...
CLIENT: ...and I've made a commitment to her that we'd go and the pregnancy thing came into the picture and it looked like I might not be able to go at all pending what decision I made about that. And then before that the marriage thing came up and I said, "Well that's not going to stop me from going. We'll get married in September."
COUNSELOR: [It's kind of like a lot of things came up and they didn't stop you and sure don't want to stop now.] (ph)
CLIENT: Yeah. Now I've begun to feel, hell, I might leave and really feel lonely and want to come back. And I anticipate that I will feel that way. But if I don't go this summer to places I love I don't know when Don and I will be able to get there. It may be next year but it may not be next year. It may be a couple of years before we can get out there. And I have an opportunity to do it now. And I'm not married to him and even if I was I'd still probably consider seriously going. 
COUNSELOR: [Yeah. It's like you really want to do it and it's important to you. Why should you be stopped by] (ph) (inaudible@ 35:14)
CLIENT: Yeah. Like you're throwing back what I'm saying... does it sound realistic to you?
COUNSELOR: Sure.
CLIENT: I mean it does to me and -
COUNSELOR: [I mean what you're saying - I think what you're asking me, "Look is this terrible? Am I wrong to feel this way or is Don right to make me feel guilty about my decision?" And the point is that it is the way you feel and it's a perfectly understandable way to feel. If you were different and you thought being together was of the utmost importance this summer then you wouldn't feel the way you do. But you feel that this is important and [you know that you and Don will be together.] (ph)
CLIENT: Yeah. Well, I guess -
COUNSELOR: And I sense that you feel very unsure about it and you need to -
CLIENT: Well, you know what starts happening is that now that people know - it's gotten around that I'm getting married - and people question, "Are you still going camping this summer?" Like I certainly shouldn't be going camping.
COUNSELOR: [There's something wrong with you taking off and not being with Don.]  
CLIENT: Yeah. And so other people are feeding into Don's attitude about it. And they're starting to -
COUNSELOR: It's kind of like you're being bombarded and you still kind of want to feel that way but people make you question like you're wrong to feel that way.] (ph)
CLIENT: Yeah. And I say, "Yeah I'm still going camping! Why shouldn't I?" You know I'm not getting married until September. And I figure between now and the time I leave I can have things worked out with my parents. My mother is perfectly willing to do some of the things. I'm willing to get things set up beforehand. [36:52]
COUNSELOR: [You know, the thing is I can understand your attitude really. Well, I can also understand Don's attitude, as I'm sure you can too.
CLIENT: Yeah. I do.
COUNSELOR: [You know he can't go camp and he'd like to be with you. It would make it a lot nicer.] (ph)
CLIENT: Yeah. I suspect part of it is he's feeling bad because he can't go. Originally we thought that he could go and if the job didn't come through. That's the way we'd worked it out or before the suggestion of the job had come we were going to go together. He was supposed to have gotten a job to get some money together. I said, "We won't be able to go that long." Well then the job opportunity came up and that seem to eliminate his going.
COUNSELOR: Yeah, because that would be what? Starting in the summer?"
CLIENT: Yeah. It would start the first of July. And I'd anticipated well what he could do since it didn't start till the first of July maybe he could spend a couple of weeks. And maybe he could get a week or two off in August, which would have been perfectly ideal. And I had that set up as an ideal so that we wouldn't have to be separated all summer long. And then as there became a question about the job he decided to go to summer school. So eliminating completely going along this summer. And of course -
COUNSELOR: [In making this decision, did he expect you to make] (ph) (inaudible@ 38:14) 
CLIENT: I would eliminate going camping? I began to suspect so. 
COUNSELOR: (inaudible@ 38:28)
CLIENT: Well I didn't at the time, which at the moment makes me feel selfish again.
COUNSELOR: Yeah. You kind of feel like - do you feel like you're being selfish in really wanting to go camping in [respect to that?] (ph)
CLIENT: No. No, only perhaps in the sense that I'm not accepting a subtle kind of demand from Don.
COUNSELOR: [Kind of like "Well, I'm doing what I want to do most but I'm not making him happy."] (ph)
CLIENT: Uh-hmm, which kind of - I have a lot of trouble working out a sharing relationship. And I know that I'm a selfish person in a lot of ways. I've had to grapple with that a lot of times in my life. I'm just recognizing that. And I've gone along and it has seemed to me in a lot of ways Don gives so much to me. He's always willing to give up so that I get something out of it. [39:41]
COUNSELOR: [Now does that make you feel bad because you're not giving up something to give him something? Is that kind of a key contributor?] (ph)
CLIENT: Well, yes. What it does is it kind of illuminates selfishness in me.
COUNSELOR: [Yeah. Here you see yourself not giving up camping just to make Don happy some kind lapse of selfishness. "I don't give to him what he gives to me."] (ph)
CLIENT: Yeah because I know if the situation were reversed he wouldn't go camping or if he did he'd go for maybe a week or two weeks and that'd be the extent of it. Yeah, I'm really pretty confident that that's what he'd do. Unless he anticipated that if I were going to be working it would be the kind of thing that would take up so much of my time. Which he has to deal with a lot of times when he comes here in that I don't terminate my responsibilities when comes. And I guess sometimes I could loosen them up. And sometimes I do but I'm not always sure I do it to the extent I could. [40:57]
COUNSELOR: [Where you know that you could kind of make compromises I guess making compromises feels like giving to him, being able to be with him more.] (ph)
CLIENT: Making compromises? My making compr-
COUNSELOR: Like loosening up.
CLIENT: Like when he was in school - he's done with the year - but when he was in school and I'd go up there and visit he'd cut classes more often and did very little studying. And I'd say to him, "Damn! Don't you have any work to do? What about going to classes?" And I'd really push him. And he'd give up all that kind of stuff, which are responsibilities I don't think he ought to give up because I'm understanding of those. I know that I've got them. And I know I'm not going to give those up because I know that I've got to get through this damn place. And I'm not going to get through if I start being completely lazy about it. So I began to feel selfish about things like that. That I'm not giving. And then I think, "Well God! I'm rational about things. Like where he's at in school is an undergraduate going to classes and doing studying and I think it's a little easier to give in on those things. I have responsibilities to clients, to a job, things like that. It's not just bookwork and class crap. [ 42:34]
COUNSELOR: [It's not like you can stay up till three in the morning on another morning because you stayed up till three in the morning this morning. ] (ph)
CLIENT: Yeah.
COUNSELOR: [I'm kind of sensing that there is kind of a dilemma with respect to the kind of relationship between you and Don that's kind of brought out more by what to do for the summer thing. "Am I... it makes me feel kind of selfish or it kind of tells me that I'm selfish wanting to be able to go camping and do that.] (ph)
CLIENT: Yeah. I've just begun sort of approaching Daisy on it and I know she won't deal with it in the sense that I've said, "Wow! Don really feels kind of bad about my going all summer." And I guess what I'm trying to do is offer an opportunity for Daisy to say, "Well you know maybe you ought to reconsider going all summer." 
COUNSELOR: [Kind of like then that wouldn't be a very unkind thing to her.] (ph)
CLIENT: Yeah. But I know she's almost more committed to this than I am. She has no commitment -
COUNSELOR: [Yeah. So kind of either way you've got to disappoint someone.] (ph)
CLIENT: Yeah. Yeah. I have said - she does recognize that I've got to get a job now. And I said I'm still going but I'm going to have to come back. And she said, "Well I'm not coming back with you." So wherever I decide is a turning point, I've got to start back and I leave her off. And I know she's already said - like she said yesterday I think that she's going to stay in Texas, which means that I have to go all the way to Texas or it suggests of that. And I anticipate that taking about a month considering the places I want to go between here and Texas. And I don't anticipate that I can get back before the first of August. 
Now I find myself talking about trying to cut it short and I don't want to do that. [44:49]
COUNSELOR: [Yeah it sounds you're trying to make some kind of compromise between the two things. Like you really want it the way you want it but yet you really feel-] (ph)
CLIENT: You know it's sort of like I don't want to hurt somebody else. Like I'd hurt myself. No I wouldn't. I'll go to an extent to give to somebody else but I won't hurt myself.
COUNSELOR: [And cutting it short you feel like it would be hurtful to you because it's not doing-] (ph)
CLIENT: Well, if I cut it short before the first of August or in the middle of August, yeah. Well, I don't know. Maybe not. I'm not sure that's true because I may really want to come back before then. 
COUNSELOR: [Sometimes you get tired of travel.] (ph) (inaudible@ 45:42)
CLIENT: Yeah it will be the longest time I've done it.
COUNSELOR: (inaudible@ 45:54)
CLIENT: What?
COUNSELOR: (inaudible)
CLIENT: (laughs) Were you in the United States?
COUNSELOR: No I was in (inaudible@ 45:57)
CLIENT: And you got tired of it. I don't say that. I always thought I'd never get tired of doing that.
COUNSELOR: [Well you do start to miss things like - well maybe it's different being in a foreign country.] (ph)
CLIENT: Yeah. Yeah.
COUNSELOR: [Because you start to miss just - it depends on the kind of person you and the kind of stability of having a place to go to or finding a place or something.] (ph)
CLIENT: Yeah. Things like that I think can get to me.
COUNSELOR: I was just - that's neither here nor there. I was just throwing it out as a possibility. 
CLIENT: I want to do this also just to not be stable. I always have some security set for me. Like when we first talked of traveling this summer it was out of not having anything to come back to. Not having a job set waiting for us, being footloose and fancy-free and accepting the insecurity of it all. And I really -
COUNSELOR: [You kind of liked it.] (ph)
CLIENT: Yeah. I want to do this. So then all of a sudden the decision came to get married. Well, there's a security waiting back here in that sense. And the security of Don having a job and I won't have to sweat it. I can take my time. 
COUNSELOR: [It's kind of like as you come back from this whole trip and go sleep in a nice, homey place.] (ph)
CLIENT: Uh-hmm. So that the insecurity of it has been eliminated in some respects. And I want to go for the length of time to force myself into dealing with relaxing, dealing with thinking, dealing with time on my hands. It's very easy for me around because my time is pretty much taken up. And when I do have free time it's that kind of free time where I have little things to do. It's not time I have to sit down and meditate or read things that I want to make myself read. I can't just take an hour and say you're just going to force yourself to do nothing. Force myself out of building that up for just being lazy kind of thing. And I really want to do that. [48:34]
COUNSELOR: [Yeah. You want to be able to not have obligations and schedules and things that you have to be at and just kind of be your own master in a way. 
CLIENT: Yeah, like the minute I-
COUNSELOR: Go where you want and when you want.
CLIENT: The minute I come back all sorts of responsibilities get thrown at me. Don, my job, my parents and the wedding and all that crap, gets thrown at me. And I just assume take some time away from my normal life. And Don can understand that. And he accepts it on one hand but he still has those feelings of that it's not fair in a way for me to go. And that I'm leaving him out or excluding him or something like that. But I don't see anything happening between now and two weeks from to keep me from going.
COUNSELOR: [Yeah but you'd like to feel that] (ph) (inaudible@ 49:47)
CLIENT: I don't know. Right now I'm not so worried about it really. The guilt feeling or the selfish feeling or whatever it is doesn't loom very big at all for me. I suspect part of it is Don is accepting a very strong streak of independence in me that I don't intend on giving up. I have also a strong dependence on him. But I feel really strongly about maintaining my independence. And I suspect that's something that we'll run into having to work out. But I'm not worried about it. It doesn't frighten me. It doesn't do anything except kind of excite me in the sense of working through struggles, working through kinds of things. I kind of feel as though we've meandered away from what is most bothersome to me. And on the other hand, maybe that's all right in the sense that I don't know where to go or have any direction for -
COUNSELOR: [Kind of like in your life generally it seems as though the problem with sex seems most important to you but in a way you felt this other thing felt important too. Kind of like when you look at yourself like you should be talking about sex. Is that kind of how it is?] (ph)
CLIENT: No. No. I guess what it more is to me is that at the moment I don't feel I have any input, anything to say about it. That I feel good - like the good feelings through the weekend were really nice. And what happened Monday night and Tuesday, I became really anxious to talk about it here. And this morning I became scared about coming here. 
COUNSELOR: [What was that about?] (ph)
CLIENT: I guess it was out of having looked at what went on Monday. We'd gone Tuesday. And feeling some futility about it. And figuring, "Damn! There's not anything to say about it." But I still wasn't anxious about wanting to come here. And then getting here and talking for a while I don't feel there's anyplace to go with that right now. And I don't think I'm very happy with it except that I'm trying to accept it and kind of relax about it. I keep feeling a need very much to relax about the hang-up. You know, the block. I guess more so than anything else. [53:45]
COUNSELOR: [Kind of like you just don't want to do is you can make appeal to you. It's like you don't want to see yourself getting to the kind of ] (ph) (inaudible@ 53:58) [Don't want to have that dilemma so present for you and brought up so much. You kind of feel the best way to deal with it is to relax about it and not worry about.] (ph)
CLIENT: Yeah. I guess I also feel the need to talk to Don about it again. We haven't really sat down and talked about it for a long time. I don't know - the reluctance I guess is that I feel a lot of things have been said. In fact I feel as though most of what I know about it all has been said. Or most of what seems to be -
COUNSELOR: And here you would be bringing it up again. 
CLIENT: ...valid. Yeah. Bringing up again things that maybe Don hasn't heard but I've heard. Although I still feel the need to do that. 
COUNSELOR: [Well if you still feel the need to do it then it sounds like it's important for you to do it.] (ph)
CLIENT: Yeah. Yeah, I think it is.
COUNSELOR: [Because kind of like you're going through - it is a new layer for you. It's been shared with Don but it's a bummer for you now and it's important for you to share it now.] (ph)
CLIENT: Yeah. I guess also from the minute he walked in Monday I wanted to tell him that you and I were talking about it. And no opportunity came Monday. No opportunity really came up yesterday either. And don't anticipate an opportunity will come up today either because it's a day for me that's really rough and long. And I feel - like tomorrow I have - we have the whole day to be together. There's a lot of things we've got to do but I'm kind of really anticipating that we can spend some time together just talking. I guess that's part of the strange feeling is that when we've been separated for a while we need a chance to just chat.
COUNSELOR: Yeah, to get attuned to each other. 
CLIENT: Yeah. Yeah. Lots of times we can do that before we go to sleep at night or something like that. We sit and talk a lot. But we really haven't even had a chance to do that. And I really miss not having yet been able to sit down and talk. And like coming back from the abortion all these people were around. And I really wanted to just be able to sit down, take some moments to get my silence together. You know about it being difficult for me to talk. And then just talk together. And wow, that took a long time to come out. I guess that's what the strange feeling is that I can't just talk right away. I have to get comfortable again. [57:05]
COUNSELOR: [Yeah. Yeah. It's like you can't get to it.] (ph)
CLIENT: Yeah. I guess I don't like that - you know it's sort of like needing that time of getting comfortable or whatever it is before I can talk is like the kind of thing I face - and I don't know if it's valid to relate it to this but I do - it's like when I'm working with a group or reflecting on working with a client or something, that conflict will come up or a need for confrontation. And then I block about doing that. And it takes so much inside of me to pull it out, blurt out what I'm thinking to be helpful to someone else to say something that they need to say. And I reflect back to that terrible experience last Thursday with that group of people. I wanted to just shout at them what asses they were or tell them, "I think you're all bullsh*tting each other and me too!" But I never could work myself to saying that even in a more acceptable way to them. 
COUNSELOR: Yeah. [You just kind of kept it in.] (ph)
CLIENT: Yeah. And I think of when Gary and I were together Thursday evening in that bar, toward talking and opening up there was just this terrible struggle inside to get that all started.
COUNSELOR: [Yeah. You'd really like to be able to get into it and get it started instead of feeling that block to it.] (ph)
CLIENT: Yeah. 
COUNSELOR: [Because the feeling of like when you're able to say things nice to Gary you weren't able to really get into it.] (ph)
CLIENT: Yeah, it is. Yeah. After it starts -
COUNSELOR: [You don't want that bottleneck there.] (ph)
CLIENT: Yeah. I don't know. I guess I was just thinking that kind of bottleneck or whatever; is that related also to my block with sex? If I could just get that struggle out, you know?
COUNSELOR: [Yeah. It's kind of like, "I just feel this kind of damned up feeling whether it's opening myself to someone with words, thoughts, feelings, or whether it's sexual things. There just is a block. And I just kind of feel like I want to burst out from the inside and through it.] (ph)
CLIENT: Yeah. Yeah. Just talking about it makes me feel what that's like inside.
COUNSELOR: Yeah. Kind of that-
CLIENT: Like a big knot that just ends up, "Pssh!" 
COUNSELOR: [Yeah. Just feel like you just want to rip it out and pour out all of it in a way.] (ph)
CLIENT: Yeah. Like being freer or what I think of as being freer to express. And I had thought in a lot of ways just during the course of this year that I felt like I had become somewhat freer. And now I feel like I'm really not so sure I have in a lot of areas that are more difficult I guess.
COUNSELOR: (inaudible@ 60:37)
CLIENT: As we've been talking and we talked about this summer, I guess I sort of I don't know. What I want to be able to do also is this summer is Daisy's a person that likes to be alone sometimes. So I don't feel like I'm going to be imposed upon by her presence. And what I want to do is take time just to disappear from where people are and force myself - which will be what it will be at least to start with because it's very hard for me to sit down and meditate by myself. Or think or read something that's difficult that I want myself to be to read. And I want to be able to do that kind of thing. 
COUNSELOR: [Kind of the idea that] (ph) (inaudible@ 61:32) kind of let those things kind of flow.] (ph)
CLIENT: Yeah. I don't know if they can flow by myself. I almost feel as though a lot of those things involve interacting with other people. But I guess maybe it's just sort of getting focused on where I am in relation to myself and relation to where I may be going with my life or where I may be going with people that I may meet in the future. And kind of I guess sort of building up a strength inside of anticipating risking with people or -
COUNSELOR: [Kind of a more whole feeling inside like you can do things.] (ph)
CLIENT: Yeah. I guess I don't necessarily feel that has to happen either. It's just that I've never really taken the time - made myself take the time to - like during the course of the year I said, "Okay." Like when I've been down or I just decided I didn't want to talk to people. I'm going to go close myself in. And I thought maybe it would last an hour with a book which is a security in a sense. I'm not by myself, I'm with this book. And I used that as a building into being alone is that I want to read this so I'll start with something I really want to do. I made read for an hour. And something happened outside that I'm forced to go outside of my room. And that breaks the train and I can't go back to being alone or even thinking alone. And I really want to do that.
COUNSELOR: [Yeah. Just be real.] (ph)
CLIENT: Yeah.
COUNSELOR: I think we better stop. 
CLIENT: Okay.
END TRANSCRIPT
