Transcript of Audio File:
______________________________________________________________________________
BEGIN TRANSCRIPT:
THERAPIST: Hi, come on in.
CLIENT: Okay.
THERAPIST: Hi.
CLIENT: Hi. So I'm starting to feel really nauseous. I just think I need a minute. I just left a class and I just ate a handful of nuts. I think it's making my stomach feel upset, sorry. All right. (laughter) I've been trying this new thing. My friend, who is in this nutritionist program, he was telling Chris about this new.... his sanative - read this article that this thing called... like this... he was trying to lose weight and he was trying this thing called intermittent fasting. Which is you don't... you stop eating for 14 hours at a time. So you... the way he does it is not... he doesn't eat until noon. And then he lets himself eat from till noon to nine. And then he doesn't eat until noon the next day. Which I... doesn't work for me so - but I read the article. And there's this line that it didn't... I don't know. It made sense.
And so because I'm so frustrated, I'd figured I'd give a try. And so anyway, I'm trying it this week. And I'm eating dinner essentially at 4:30 and then eating at 7:00 the next morning. It's so hard. I don't know. I'm going to try it for a week and see if it works. And now I don't really feel good. Anyway, we'll see. Yeah, I don't know.
I was thinking about how last week I was really down and really upset and feeling like I hadn't made much progress and that I was frustrated. And the whole next week, I was seeing all these things that I had made progress. And seeing that I was better at my job, and I was better with the girls. And that I was more patient with Chris and we were getting along better. And I was seeing all these ways that I definitely have improved. And that my anxiety is much... even it's still there sometimes it's still so much better. And I was seeing all these ways that I was... I had improved and I was feeling better and things were better. And that really felt great.
And then I had said that to my brother. And, of course, I said like... I said, "Yeah, of course, though, that's just me. I have to find a way to prove myself wrong." And so I was saying I'm... I wasn't better to prove myself wrong by seeing all these ways that I'm better. And I... just give it a few days and I'm just going to start proving myself wrong again. It's like I just need some way to... it was like as soon as I said it, it started happening. It's like the self-fulfilled prophesy that I need to shut down because it's just not helpful. I don't know. It's very - [4:40]
THERAPIST: Well, what were you beating yourself up about?
CLIENT: That I hadn't... initially that's what I thought, that I hadn't -
THERAPIST: Made progress?
CLIENT: - made progress and wasn't feeling better and things weren't better. And I was seeing all the ways that that's not true.
THERAPIST: Because that's saying that (inaudible at 4:59).
CLIENT: Yeah, but that's... it's still true, those things are still true. But as soon as I said something to my brother, they're like, "Got to give it a few days." Which is just kind of crazy because I... I mean - I had a hard day yesterday with the girls because I think I'm picky. It was long day. I was with them from 8:00 in the morning until they went to sleep and then was there till 10:00. And I started potty training Hetty, the baby. So it was a long day, I think I was just feeling really tired.
But I don't know. I need to just allow myself to have just bad days because that's going to happen. Where some days are just not as easy and that's just the reality, instead of taking it to this whole other level. It's like, "This isn't... things aren't working." Or, "I'm not working or - " Sometimes it's just a bad day. I guess that's what I still need to keep working on. (pause) I'm thinking about my eating stuff. When I was - when I went... at the end of high school and the year after high school, I went through a short period of time when I was... make myself throw up. Because I was chubby and I didn't like it. And it worked and I lost weight. And I went away to Maryland right after high school graduation to work as a live-in nanny. And I gained a lot of weight while I was down there.
And then I went back and I knew - I didn't realize how much weight I had gained until I went back and I was looking at pictures. And I lost weight by throwing up. I think 15 pounds or something like that, I don't know the exact amount. But it's been the only times I've been successful at losing weight. (pause) And - I don't know. I have - I don't make myself throw up anymore, but the temptation is definitely there. Definitely think about doing it, and definitely realize how much easier it would be. (pause)
I feel like everything for me surrounding food is just so unhealthy. And I just see there... I like - I don't know. I just can't - it's such a control thing. (pause) It's very frustrating. Very frustrating that I can't lose weight the healthy way or that I haven't felt successful losing weight the healthy way, (pause) scarier too. And I just get nervous that - I just don't want to get so focused on it that - I don't know.
I don't think I'm going to... I don't see myself making myself sick again. I don't think that that's a realistic possibility. But I'm making myself crazy about it. It's like all - I'm just focused on it. And just - and then I am starving hungry and so I eat a handful of peanuts and some... like eat like bunch of dried fruit with all this stuff. Which is not bad, it's all very comfy food. But I would like... I'm starving so I just eat a bunch of food and I just feel pissed and frustrated. And I just... I don't know. And I just think about all these other people that can do it.
My mom trains for marathons. And she must have been... was like, "Oh, I went running this morning, of course, I'm starving." And I'm like, "I walked all over the place with the girls, and I'm, of course, I'm starving." Then I start thinking about everybody else who can exercise and lose weight that way, just doesn't seem to work for me. (pause) I don't know. It's something that seems like should be so in your control and then when I lose control... or when it seems when I feel like I'm controlling everything that I can to do the best I can and it's not working. Just really aggravating. [12:17]
THERAPIST: Well, it sounds like you feel like it's not in control because you can't control your appetite.
CLIENT: Uh-huh.
THERAPIST: And it sounds like you're frustrated about that.
CLIENT: Yeah, I'm frustrated with my lack of willpower, that I can't just like - because I'm snacking all the time. I can't just wait and eat a meal like a normal person or - (pause) and then I have just these two totally conflicting images of myself. For the most part, there's sometimes I walk around and I feel great. And I think that, "I look great, and my... my outfits are cute or whatever." And obviously right now is definitely not a time. Then I see myself in the mirror and I'm like... it's just... sometimes it just doesn't match. Like "That girl is just huge and gross." (pause) It's just frustrating. (pause) And I just want to (inaudible at 14:22).
THERAPIST: Well, it sounds like you feel like, "What are you supposed to do if you're starving?"
CLIENT: Uh-huh. I don't know. It just feels very frustrating. The other thing too is I just don't... just like I don't want to be unhealthy about it, so I... when I'm hungry, I let myself eat, but then I beat myself up about it. Which is unhealthy and then (pause) I guess I just have to like let it go and decide if I'm going to lose weight, I'm going to lose weight. But if I'm - I don't know. (pause) Just bothers me. Oh well. (pause) [16:03]
THERAPIST: It sounds like you're frustrated that you can't, in a sense, usually you can't control your behavior.
CLIENT: Yeah. It's something so simple and I just can't control it. It's really simple, just don't put the food in your mouth. (pause) I mean, I exercise enough that I should be - and I do enough variation between weight and running and Pilates and yoga and walking that I should... it should be easier. It's all just the food. That's all it is. And the thing that kills me is not even when I'm eating the healthy, I eat just too much. (pause) What can you do? [17:53]
THERAPIST: Are you hoping that I... I have a good response?
CLIENT: No. I'm just kind of talking because I just - I know Chris is tired of listening to it. And I know my friend, Emma, is tired of listening to it.
THERAPIST: Well, why do you think they're tired of... of listening? [18:05]
CLIENT: Because I talk about it all the time. Maybe not all the time, but it's like something that's like I'm fixated on. And they know that it's something I'm... that I'm dealing with. And so -
THERAPIST: Well, it has a lot of meaning because you're feeling in general that you sort of need more than you should.
CLIENT: How do you mean?
THERAPIST: Just in so many areas of your life you feel like you need more than you should. You're very in touch with what you need and it feels like you shouldn't need this, you shouldn't need that. And by being at a weight you want to be at, it seems like you feel that's just another way that you're needing more than you should. [19:00]
CLIENT: Uh-huh. Yes, it does. And then I have anxiety about getting it done. I want to... I thought, "Oh, I'm going to," like my doctor, "I'm not going to be drinking for these seven, eight weeks, that's great. That'll help me to cut calories." Nope, nothing. And then we're talking about trying for a baby the end of the summer. If I'm still unhappy about my weight when that happens, it's just going to be so frustrating to me. Because it's just going to be that much harder afterward. And they say if you want to have a normal pregnancy and if you want to have an easy delivery, then you should be really healthy and a good weight. (pause)
THERAPIST: What's making you sad?
CLIENT: Well, I just - I don't want to be I guess when we - I don't know. I just have this whole idea that when would start to try to have a family, everything would be lined up how I would want it. So Chris would have a job, we would have a place to live. We'd have things set up the way we want it. And one of those things, me being happy with my physical self like my weight and my... how fat I am. And if I'm not, that's a problem. And I don't want to be... I don't want to be an unhealthy - I'm not unhealthy, but I'm - I don't want to be an overweight pregnant person. And I don't want to have a... I don't want to be an overweight mom.
I don't want to be like one of those - I don't know. I feel like if I go into having kids already unhappy about my weight, it's just going to get worse. (pause) That sounds like just a stupid thing to be worried about and talk about. I don't know. It's not stupid because honestly, it's like for the health of you and your baby and... but it sounds so superficial and silly when I say it. (pause)
Everyone tells me that I'm... I look just like the Velarde's which is my dad's side of the family. And I've always been told I look just like Velarde. And I've always hated it in part because they're all chubby, they're all bigger. And I always thought that like that's what everyone sees is that I look like Velarde because I'm chubby like all of them. And all... my mom's side everybody is really thin and tiny, super tiny. And so I just felt like the reason everyone says I'm a Velarde is because I look like one.
THERAPIST: And that bothers you? [24:00]
CLIENT: Uh-huh. Uh-huh.
THERAPIST: What do you think they're saying about you when they're saying that?
CLIENT: That I'm fat. (pause) I guess I just have to just keep trying. Just one more thing that makes me feel like I'm just running against a brick wall. Just (pause) oh well. Don't pity self. Makes me realize more after the last year was the first time to come and not cry. That's was an exciting process.
THERAPIST: (inaudible at 25:52)
CLIENT: Because I used to come and just melt down and release all the pressures - I don't know. [26:14]
THERAPIST: It seems like the way you feel about your weight is the way you feel about your feelings too which is it's just too much, too much crying, too much whining.
CLIENT: Uh-huh. Too much whining. That's what it seems like. (pause) It's like... could... I would hear myself... if I... if I heard myself and say like, "Just stop snacking, what's wrong with you? Just stop snacking." It's a very easy solution. And it's like if I could hear myself with the whining all the time, I would say, "Stop whining, suck it up, deal with it." (pause) [27:37]
THERAPIST: Well, if you're (inaudible at 27:36) than the more it doesn't do anything to help you relieve your feelings (inaudible at 27:48) so far there's no reason to think that it'll... doesn't work.
CLIENT: Uh-huh. I know.
THERAPIST: I'm not sure how undeveloped that one of your strategies is to just sort of say, "Shut up."
CLIENT: Is that how it developed?
THERAPIST: Uh-huh.
CLIENT: Because I was always told that I was feeling sorry for myself. And -
THERAPIST: So you believed that? [28:31]
CLIENT: Uh-huh. As a kid when an adult tells you that what you're whining about isn't valid, and you are told that you're just being a whiner, you're a kid. (pause) I don't know if that's all of it. But it's also just frustration that I felt being - it's like - and then there's just so much in my head. And it's like, "Oh my God, I have to stop. Stop, that's enough." (pause) I was just told that, that that I was whining. And now I would cry in front of... when things would happen and my... on the Velarde side of my family, like family functions with dad, I would cry. And my aunt would tell me like, "What are you crying.... stop crying. What are you crying for?" Or I would be told a lot like if my grandma made me upset like, "Don't cry. Why are you... don't get upset about it. Why are you... why are you so upset about it? You don't need to cry." Well, it makes me cry because I'm upset. It hurts my feelings.
So then I started feeling like it's all a big overreaction. And I've always just been the sensitive one, and the one that had the harder time. (pause) I'm just very emotional. No, but everyone in my family is very emotional. I just show it through tears. I guess that's (inaudible at 31:17) and with my compulsive snacking. (pause) Yeah, because I'm not the only one that's emotional. And when I think about it... it's like, "You're all emotional, all of you." I'm talking about my family now. "You're all loose canons. You all either drink, use drugs, sometimes are completely sensitive, as sensitive or more than I am." I'm not the only one who's emotional, I just cry about it. And I probably abuse my snacking.
I guess that's something that I've always... or I've started to realize, but it's just when you have this label of yourself that's the one who's emotional, and the one who's sensitive. It's like, "Well, the only realize that it," - I don't know. It's like why would - I don't know. I never understood it, why if I cried or got upset, why it would bother somebody. Like, "Why would that bother you if I'm crying? I'm embarrassed because I'm crying in front of our whole family. But why does it bother you?" Like my aunt or my uncle or my grandma like, "Why are you bothered at the fact that I'm crying?" [33:54]
THERAPIST: Maybe they feel they've contributed to the... your sadness so (inaudible at 34:00).
CLIENT: Yeah, maybe.
THERAPIST: Do you think that's part of it?
CLIENT: Maybe. I always thought it was like the - they thought that I was... because they just didn't know really details of stuff that happened in my house. They just thought my dad drank, and their dad drank. And I always saw it as like, "Why are you freaking out?" Like, "What - yeah, he's a drunk, but - " and I was mostly upset about the fact that of... I was upset about the violence and the anger and the aggression that happened with the alcohol. But they didn't have that.
And so I always thought - and that really frustrate... I always felt like they were kind of rolling their eyes at me like I was being a baby about it. But my frustration was always, "You don't know what's going on. You don't know what happens when we leave here. And you don't know what happened... has happened in the last few years. And it's not the same as with Grampy. Because Grampy was a sad drunk, but he never... wasn't a terror, didn't terrorize people. (pause) I always felt like they just thought I was silly. (pause)
And maybe - I mean, I don't know. My aunt and I, my dad's sister, were really close when I was a kid. She used to take us a lot. And then when I was ten, I would start going up to her house for slumber parties, and I'd help her with her little kids and start babysitting for her. And we were really close. And then when my parents separated, she was on my mom... was trying to help my mom at first get my dad into rehab. But then a week later she called my mom and was screaming at her. And then after that, it was not good. And she didn't - we weren't really close then. So I don't know. With her, I think maybe part of it is guilt. I always wondered if maybe part of her didn't want to hear me say those things about her brother. She didn't want to believe it maybe. Those things would be hard to hear. I wouldn't want to hear those things about my brother. So - [37:17]
THERAPIST: What would you do if you heard them?
CLIENT: I don't know. I'd want different relationships with them I think. (pause) I would - I don't know. I would talk to him either one of them. And if it was the exact same situation, if I heard that one of my brothers was drinking out of control and abusing his family, then I would say that he was doing the same things that our dad did to us. He was just making the same scars on his own kids. And ask him to get help for their sake. I don't know what more I could do other than support the kids and ask my brother to get help, help himself. [38:38]
THERAPIST: You could try and get the kids removed from the home.
CLIENT: Uh-huh. Yeah.
THERAPIST: Do you think you would have wanted that?
CLIENT: No. (pause) Not at all. I think it's terrible, but if I had to leave my mom or my brothers, I don't know what I would have done.
THERAPIST: Well, you wouldn't have left your brothers, your brothers would be removed too.
CLIENT: Yeah, but because they always stay together and it's like the whole... I don't think it's that easy.
THERAPIST: No, I know. Plus, the practical question and more just how you felt with the (inaudible at 39:57).
CLIENT: No, I didn't want to be separated. I wanted him to leave. I think if somebody had... I think if somebody contacted CPS much earlier it would have happened much sooner. I think if the threat of losing... if my mom knew that losing us was a real possibility, then he would have been gone a long, long before that.
THERAPIST: Did she ever try to get a restraining order? [40:32]
CLIENT: The last time they separated.
THERAPIST: Did it work?
CLIENT: No. Because she never would call the cops. Because she'd be too embarrassed that people would see (inaudible at 40:57).
THERAPIST: Maybe that's where you get the... how you feel about yourself?
CLIENT: What?
THERAPIST: Well, it sounds like she felt ashamed that not only about your father, of your father, but that she would be with such a man.
CLIENT: Then people would know.
THERAPIST: Uh-huh.
CLIENT: Well, and that's why I have all these conflicting feelings of I want people to know what's going on because it's scary and it sucks and I am feeling alone in this. But also it's really embarrassing. And so that's how I feel about a lot of things. This is scary and this sucks and I feel alone in this. But I don't really want to tell anybody about it because it's kind of embarrassing.
THERAPIST: What's embarrassing about it?
CLIENT: Well, when I was growing up that it was embarrassing that my dad was that person, that he was a drunk, and that he hurt our mom. And my house was scary, that was embarrassing. And what's embarrassing about me now is that I'm fat and I can't control it and that no willpower. And that's embarrassing.
THERAPIST: Why is your dad being out of control with what's bad when (inaudible at 42:51)?
CLIENT: I don't know. If you were a kid and you think that anything your parents do reflects on you. And now I don't feel that way all the time, but it's like where it comes from. And so people do judge, they judge. If people know that my dad is an alcoholic, they do judge and they think like... they make assumptions and -
THERAPIST: About you?
CLIENT: Uh-huh.
THERAPIST: Like what?
CLIENT: That I'll be one too or that I'm damaged which I am. (chuckles) And that I... that I - I don't know. That I'm going to be one too or -
THERAPIST: Would you imagine that someone would feel badly for you if you told them your situation? [43:46]
CLIENT: (Pause) I can imagine that, yes, people do feel badly for me. But it comes with a mix feeling of nervousness or judgment (pause) most of the time, not everybody. Just comes (inaudible at 44:34) (pause) maybe I'm wrong.
THERAPIST: I don't think every family is a free-for-all like your mothers (inaudible at 45:08)
CLIENT: What do you mean?
THERAPIST: Well, from what you were describing on Monday, it's like a free-for-all. I mean, anyone could be the object of attack at any moment.
CLIENT: Yeah. But I don't think that's how society works (inaudible at 45:26) I don't know. Yeah.
THERAPIST: I just there are other people in the world (inaudible at 45:44)
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: Be ready to attack.
CLIENT: Yeah. I'm not very trusting I guess.
THERAPIST: Well, why would you be?
CLIENT: I don't know. I wish I was more trusting.
THERAPIST: I know that's one of the things that you're working on here. But so far do you feel like that's the norm it's harder to trust.
CLIENT: Uh-huh.
THERAPIST: And I know that part of you feels like it's not.
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: It was your norm for a long time.
CLIENT: Uh-huh.
THERAPIST: All right. (inaudible at 46:28).
CLIENT: Okay.
THERAPIST: So I will see you on Monday?
CLIENT: Okay. That sounds great. We're taking a train to New York, I'm very excited.
THERAPIST: Sounds fun.
CLIENT: I know.
THERAPIST: Okay. Take care.
CLIENT: Thanks so much. You too.
END TRANSCRIPT
