TRANSCRIPT OF AUDIO FILE:
______________________________________________________________________________
BEGIN TRANSCRIPT:
PATIENT: And I have just a small little something for you for ...
COUNSELOR: What is it?
PATIENT: It's a glass ... it's something from Sunspots where I go to see my daughter at ... it is a glass permanent candle. I've never seen one quite like it before. You pour oil into it and a little bit of a funnel ... put the oil into this lovely glass container and then there's a wick, but it's a permanent wick. It's a piece of ... it's actually a piece of like rope and held in a little plastic (ph) ... glass ... little glass piece that the rope goes through and the idea is that the light ... you give light ... the very tippy-top of the ... just a little bit of the rope extending above the glass, you light that and then the fire I guess travels down the rope and ignites in the oil. And it stays for ... it will stay for a long, long, long, long time. It will never ... needs to be replaced is the oil. It seemed very pretty, very decorative.
COUNSELOR: I was struck right away by your word "permanent."
PATIENT: Permanent?
COUNSELOR: Yeah.
PATIENT: Okay. Yeah. I think it's very ... yeah, it's enduring, lasting. And very pretty. And ... a little embarrassed about it, but there's a sense of romance about it too, so ... it's a little bit awkward, but I kind of ... well, just hope that you wouldn't take it the wrong way ...
COUNSELOR: [Tell me about ... can you tell me why you're feeling awkward?] (ph)
PATIENT: Just ... it's a very romantic piece ... I got something similar for Jemma, and ... but at the same time, I thought it was very feminine and very ... just ... that I could conceive of it being used in a very romantic situation. So I tried not to let my imagination run too much ahead of me, but I just ... thought it would be a ... just a nice ... a nice addition to your art (ph). [0:02:42]
COUNSELOR: It sounds like it involves imagining your presence in some romantic situation.
PATIENT: Uh ... yeah, I didn't want it really to come out that ... because that's NOT what I was really thinking about ...
COUNSELOR: No, tell me ...
PATIENT: Um ...
COUNSELOR: I'm sure there's more than one thing going on here. I don't want to be ... jump in a heavy way in one direction [to think about this] (ph).
PATIENT: Well, it's ... yeah, in one way ... I mean it just comes from the ... I guess what I'm ... some of my feelings are just ... continue to be just a huge amount of affection and gratitude for the role you've had in my life in the last several months, so I ... undoubtedly there's ... I think a deep sense ... that's kind of ... that was the main thing that was in my mind, just that I wanted [a woman] (ph) to have something pretty and feminine [and it could] (ph) ... kind of associated with me. But then as I'm thinking about it, I think well this is going to potentially trigger a discussion about romantic impulses that I have toward you or thoughts of you in a romantic situation and that just came to my mind AFTER the purchase but not [the main reason] (ph) BEFORE. Not the reason that triggered it. So I just was ... in this glass store Sunspots (inaudible at 0:04:30) [daughter works] (ph) and had me just think of a variety of things and most of them were presents for women, I guess, the other is a woman in my office and yeah, every one of them had some kind of romantic ... whether it was a vase or flowers or ... they were all romance. I think probably MORE my sense is ... in fact this came to me ... I think MORE rather than overdo the thought of my hidden, or not so hidden, romantic feelings toward you is just a statement that came ... I was at a Christmas party last week given by a former girlfriend of mine, and when it turned out that another old girlfriend of mine was there and Jemma was there, and the three of them got talking to ... one of the girlfriends and Jemma got talking amongst each other with themselves and kind of suggested I make myself scarce and I felt very comfortable having Jemma meet two former girlfriends. And at the end I said, "(inaudible at 0:05:41) you have nothing to worry about. You come across as a ... they'll describe you as a guy who pretty much likes women and is good to women and it's just the general overall ... [0:06:00]
COUNSELOR: Is there concern about how they see you in that way? That you're telling me about an ex-girlfriend saying you're a real nice guy and you like women ... do you have concerns about how ... you mentioned ... I view you?
PATIENT: Yeah. In the sense that I would ... it could be seen ... I mean I guess I'm concerned to have you think that I have some kind of misplaced or inappropriate romantic or sexual fantasies about you and me. And that could ... and I guess what I'm trying to say is I don't ... you know, I don't ... I'm not ... that's not what I think this is about. I don't ... I don't ...
COUNSELOR: I don't want to ... I want to ... I think of you as many ways in which you had the sense for me that your feelings are inappropriate and ... and I'm much less concerned about appropriate or inappropriate. That's a moral judgment and that's not really my concern. I'm always interested in the significance to you of these feelings and how they're related to other kinds of feelings and how they play out, which I think is different from appropriate or inappropriate. [0:07:35]
PATIENT: Yeah. Okay. I think (inaudible) I just want (ph) (inaudible) but it just ... well actually it does come down actually to ... I mean, it all comes back to appropriate, inappropriate because I guess in a way, you know, it's just my whole lifelong dilemma which is ... which is ... which is captured in this whole experience that here's a woman like yourself, like so many other women in my life, that I just feel such ... I feel I think at one level just a very warm affection, gratitude, all kinds of positive things and constantly conflicted on one hand between how do I express ... how do I kind of bring us closer together, and I think part of the instinct that led me to purchase the present for you was a desire to bestow some token of appreciation on you that I hope would bring us even closer together by just making ... perhaps differentiating me from your other patients as somebody who particularly wanted to show his gratitude so there's this constant need of Aidan ... that somebody like [with Julie, with] (ph) others to ... all women to be ... to try to find ways to express affection, which is what I feel, but it always gets mixed up with the sense of what ... how can I have this kind of feeling toward you without it disintegrating or descending into some kind of romantic fantasy? How can I maintain or build on a relationship between us without it suddenly getting muddled up with "God, wouldn't it be just great to be in bed with this woman?" And so it's always ... that is the central theme of my life is ... and why I guess I'm just stalled in some of the areas with Jemma and everybody else. It's a type of approach/avoidance ... I'm just constantly wrestling with "Jemma, yes, she's wonderful. She's supportive and she's loving" and yet I don't want to foreclose possibility of approaching ... and knowing that until the day I die, I'm going to be thinking about potential relationships with other women. [0:10:45]
COUNSELOR: One thing that strikes me that you say about wanting to give me a gift so that you will stand out among other patients I may see ... it really speaks too of a poignant and sad ... sadly poignant (inaudible) you have that you would disappear into the background, that you just for yourself wouldn't be anybody I would remember or take notice of you.
PATIENT: Okay, I mean there may be a little bit of that.
COUNSELOR: Without this gift, to make sure it's permanent ... candle ... that makes sure I remember you, hold you in mind as if you would evaporate from my mind unless you made these demonstrations of gratitude and appreciation and, you know, [telling me I'm great] (ph). That otherwise there'd be nothing of you in my mind.
PATIENT: Well, yeah, and that comes I think as no surprise because, a) I've been ...you know, I've had other experiences where ... I mean I guess intellectually I can rationalize it very easily but a) I don't ...
COUNSELOR: What's your emotional response to [what I said] (ph)?
PATIENT: A little bit of ... maybe anger or frustration, because ... I ... I think you painted it far too extreme. I think you've taken it to an extreme. Like I ... [0:12:44]
COUNSELOR: So you feel angry at me for painting an extreme picture.
PATIENT: Yes, maybe for exaggerating.
COUNSELOR: Can you tell me how that angers you?
PATIENT: Well because I think it's ... what I'm thinking is that it is maybe making something ... it overly dramatizes, I think, a conflict between us that I don't think needs to be ...
COUNSELOR: Where do you see a conflict?
PATIENT: Well a conflict because I don't ... I'm not presenting it out of a sense of such ... I don't FEEL a sense of such self-belittlement and deprecation, that I have to make this kind of desperate gesture as you see it to create this lasting impression.
COUNSELOR: So your experience is I'm viewing you as a desperate man ...
PATIENT: Yes.
COUNSELOR: ... and that makes you angry.
PATIENT: Yes, that ... yes, I think so. And that also ... I'm also saying to myself, "For God's sake, easy ... I mean how did Julie say this?" because ... I mean first of all, I have to think that it's entirely reasonable for me to believe that out of the dozens and dozens and scores and scores of people like me that you see, particularly involved in short-term therapy, for you to be ... you know, years from now, two years, three years, four years, five years [from now] (ph) you wouldn't have any particular reason to remember me. It seems practically (ph) absurd, with all due respect. I wouldn't expect you to remember me the way I've always noted in the past, that therapists ... that you go in and you kind of pour your heart out to therapists and the minute you stop, they never ... you know, you never get a Christmas card from them, you never get a follow-up a year later, "By the way, how are you doing?" In fact the one therapist that really did kind of remember me in a very nice way when I came to see him, in fact the other present I bought is for Dr. Waner, who I came to see him last summer when I was feeling particularly acutely depressed with just a remarkably sensitive and compassionate the way he responded to my plight so I wanted to, so I bought him a [present which I was going to leave and I was going to ask you if it was appropriate for you to take it to] (ph) his office (inaudible at 0:15:37]. But the greater subject of kind of therapists and patients and ... just seems to me is something ... you come, you pour your heart out to a therapist like yourself and then ...
COUNSELOR: What do you get?
PATIENT: Yeah, what do you get?
COUNSELOR: Nothing, huh? [0:16:00]
PATIENT: Not nothing ... I mean they ...
COUNSELOR: Well but ...
PATIENT: They work hard during the time that you're with them, I don't doubt that ...
COUNSELOR: Right. And then they forget about you the moment you walk out the door.
PATIENT: ... and then go away ... yeah, the moment you walk out the door, the project is over and it is ... yeah, it is I would say a relationship in the sense that [never ending on] (ph) probably seen one batch or another 10 therapists over the last 10 to 20 years and I can't think of one other than Dr. Waner who's done anything that showed any real compassion for ... so ... I'm not necessarily ... that wasn't necessarily on my mind when I bought this present for you, but when you said to me a couple of minutes ago how desperate I must be to try to find a way to stay in your life, seemed to me that you were not ... I thought that was a reach (ph) ... that it just didn't think ...
COUNSELOR: And [not appreciating] (ph) what you see as the reality of my fundamentally different ... in some ways.
PATIENT: Well ... just structurally
COUNSELOR: In some ways.
PATIENT: Yeah. It's just built in to the nature of ... and too, it's so hard to know ...
COUNSELOR: Well maybe that goes a long way ... I'm the one who decrees weeks off. All kinds of things.
PATIENT: Well just again, it's the whole screwed up relationship between a therapist ... somebody like me and somebody like you in that I have ZERO idea whether ... you know, I don't, you know ... if I'm one of five people that you see in the whole year I can imagine that I would have ... it would be easy for you to remember me. If I'm one of 500 people that you see ... so I just ... I know NOTHING about you.
COUNSELOR: So if I'm someone who sees so many people that I couldn't possibly maybe even remember ... I'm lucky to remember their names, in this image. [0:18:04]
PATIENT: Well, it's just that that's my more fundamental point is that we're trying to have this "relationship" but it is so unequal in that I sit here and pour my heart out and guts out to YOU and you know tremendous amounts about ME, and I know ZERO about you.
COUNSELOR: So you give and give and give and you don't get back. In some sense that's ... I'm describing your emotional experience and it pisses you off.
PATIENT: Yes. I think there's something about that. But at the same time, that's ... now could I take the larger point of view and say that kind of describes my relationship with women? There's a certain amount of that too. I haven't necessarily made that connection until this minute, but it ...
COUNSELOR: That's a connection you just made [in this image] (ph)?
PATIENT: Yes. Yes.
COUNSELOR: Can you just stay with that? Because that seems important.
PATIENT: Yeah. It just occurred to me, I mean you know ... and it's something also I think we've touched on before that ... and I think it was part of my whole Gestalt and my whole outlook on life is that it's Aidan giving and giving and giving whether it's to Jemma, to Skyler, to (inaudible name), to all kinds of women, I mean because most of my giving in life is to women. I tend not to give to men. (inaudible at 0:19:25) to men. But I give and give and give to women and rarely do I feel I'm getting anything back. So it's not clear to me whether that's just a failure on my part to be more insistent on asking for what I want or just that's the way life is, you know, and you just ... few people in life tend to show gratitude or reciprocate. [0:20:11]
COUNSELOR: (inaudible)
PATIENT: Yeah, it's a bleak place which I try not to dwell on, but ...
COUNSELOR: There's something [some sense at] (ph) the core of your experiences (inaudible at 0:20:26) is that there's no one who's actually (inaudible) and the burden is all on you ...
PATIENT: Right.
COUNSELOR: ... to create the relationship, sustain the relationship and [you're not] (ph) (inaudible).
PATIENT: Correct. But again, it's not clear to me now whether that's just kind of a given in life, that it's not just Aidan, it's just kind of the way most humans operate, to kind of be more pretty much takers for the most part and those who are more givers than takers just have to get their reward from the sense of the pleasure of giving and not expect any rewards.
COUNSELOR: That doesn't work well, does it?
PATIENT: Well, it could. I mean it's a kind of a ...
COUNSELOR: I don't notice ... I don't see that it works so well.
PATIENT: It hasn't, but it could theoretically, I mean if I really decided ...
COUNSELOR: Who wants to be a goddamned saint?
PATIENT: Well ...
COUNSELOR: You? I don't.
PATIENT: You know, I'm ... no, but if you just say, "That's the way it is," you can either be upset and angry that you're not getting anything back, or you can just say, "I'm not ..." just lower your expectations and just don't expect anything back and just take a certain saintly like pleasure in just giving and giving and giving and ... know that you're making somebody else happy and hope somehow some greater cosmic ... [0:22:00]
COUNSELOR: Well God knows they never seem happy do they - women? No matter what you do ...
PATIENT: I wouldn't ... again, I think that's painting it in the extreme, with all due respect, I think they ... I get SOMETHING back. [Under the] (inaudible at 0:22:12) tonight, for example ...
COUNSELOR: Little bones.
PATIENT: Little bones, yeah.
COUNSELOR: (inaudible)
PATIENT: But you know, then again, I'm not 6'2" and my hair is gone and I have to some extent be realistic about what I'm bringing to the table and that's ... unfortunately that's a big (chuckles) that's a big problem. And as I get older and my physical attributes become less desirable to the ... particularly to the class of women that I'd LIKE to feel are potential partners for me, it's a tough but grim reality that I'm just not going to ... I'm going to get little back. The only way ... or the way I guess I'm going to get something if I'm going to get anything is to be overly ... just have to give more than the next guy.
COUNSELOR: [Do you really think that the terrible (inaudible) language] (ph) ... the dilemma in that is that I think you can see what happens at times with Jemma, is that in the giving and the giving and the giving, there's a buildup of resentment that then eats away at things and so that is why ... you're smiling?
PATIENT: No, I'm smiling in recognition, I guess, yes, you're absolutely right, yes.
COUNSELOR: So it's really quite a dilemma and I guess that's why [earlier being in here] (ph) some way to address the ... some of the roots of this in the form of your belief that you have [the little talker] (ph). That I think ... [You're great here that you have a little talker] (ph) as well as I think some other beliefs and expectations about women. So there's you and women and there's beliefs you have about yourself that I think are very deeply rooted and then beliefs you have about women that are equally as deeply rooted and they play into each other in a way that I think leaves you feeling deprived and angry. [0:24:54]
PATIENT: And recognizing that, yes, but recognizing two things - that it just, you know, there are some people who are just ... who are genetically advantaged to be great looking and ...
COUNSELOR: Well there's all kinds of people in this world. I'm going to push a little bit here because I think that when you go to that level, it's in a way struggling with some of these things because well then we can't do anything. Then you might as well ...
PATIENT: Right, yeah, that's right.
COUNSELOR: That kind of stops things there.
PATIENT: Yeah, right, right, I accept that, and again I'm not being ... I don't ... I'm not being un- ... you know, unduly harsh on myself because I do think that I have the ability to tilt the equation a little bit more favorably in my direction. I mean I'm not hopeless in that ... and that's exactly why I'm not yet ready to kind of just "settle" with ... down with Jemma, why I continue to think that I want to await (ph) one of two things - either SHE to make a vastly greater effort she's made to give me more of what I want in our relationship OR for me to get to a point where I'm more aggressive about finding somebody who's a better ... who I have a better ... who's more appreciative of me than I think she is so I don't feel this resentment. [0:26:38]
COUNSELOR: Feel appreciated.
PATIENT: To some extent, yes, definitely. Definitely in terms of the generosity I've shown her. I think I've ...
COUNSELOR: I just want to remind you that you bought her a gift that was more ... was so expensive you embarrassed her.
PATIENT: Yeah.
COUNSELOR: So that's where I think your own ... something internal to you comes into play.
PATIENT: Yeah.
COUNSELOR: That's different from ... it's internal.
PATIENT: Well it's kind of ... what people have often said about me is that, "Aidan, you're such an idealist." And I think I kind have an idealized idea that I'm this ... just this guy who is always ... whose ... my defining thing is somebody who is a giver to women that it's just inconsistent with my self-identity to do anything ... to do ... anything less than the best I can possibly bestow on whatever woman is in my life, whether it's Jemma or you or (inaudible name) or Skyler, I mean it's just part of my need to just be seen as somebody who does the best he can to be as generous as he can and is giving affection and just ... because I don't ever want to be somebody who's ... who like some of the others is considered a woman-hater or a misogynist, that sort of thing. [0:28:11]
COUNSELOR: Do you worry that I think you're sexist?
PATIENT: Yes. Yes. That, yeah, that would be very ... Skyler used to say that about me (ph) all the time and I think it's inevitable that most men I think are just kind of ... I just think it's an instinctive natural impulse [that I] (ph) try hard to overcome and that goes back to issues with my mother, early development issues (inaudible) boarding school or just lack of having a sister not ... not ever having developed the natural easygoing relationships with women, not having had a lot of just platonic women friends. Always ... always in effect wanting something from women, just basically physical intimacy, so having to figure out how to play the game. And then seeing some of the ugly sides of it is how (inaudible) I used to be in the past [so trying] (ph) for the last many years (inaudible) try to be as natural and generous (inaudible) I could be ... hoping that my better side will just ... would be ... just make me feel good, just to do the right thing, to be one of those guys other than the ones who just don't get it. So ... you know, and it's interesting that you ... that it was YOUR initiative to bring up that I perceive that I'm worried about your seeing me as sexist because that's ... [0:30:20]
COUNSELOR: (inaudible)
PATIENT: Oh, did I say that? Okay.
COUNSELOR: I think so.
PATIENT: I'm not sure that I did, actually.
COUNSELOR: Well ...
PATIENT: It's ... or at least I ... maybe I did. Your memory is probably better than mine.
COUNSELOR: It's interesting what ...
PATIENT: Well because that is ... that is a deep-rooted fear and anxiety that I have.
COUNSELOR: What comes to mind when you think about sexist - you associated to that word? What goes with that?
PATIENT: Just ... a guy who is ... who disrespects women, who is unkind and who basically is somebody who is ... is very disrespectful and unkind and does not see women as equals or as worthy partners, who sees a relationship as a one-sided (inaudible at 0:31:22).
COUNSELOR: [And there's some things] (ph) you see as a one-sided relationship dominated by women who are always taking.
PATIENT: Well I think what I've probably done is gone to the other extreme. I think because of an anxiety about being sexist, I think that I probably OVER compensate as a result and pretty much tip the scales in favor of allowing the woman in my life to pretty much (inaudible at 0:31:55) and so I'm trying to find that balance. You know, maybe I do that (inaudible) to kind of see if I can have it (inaudible). I guess I think that is something ... if I'd ever be lucky enough to meet the one woman who I give her the opportunity to be dominant and she doesn't take it. She ... reciprocates, resists the natural impulse to be acquisitive (ph) and treats me in a very egalitarian ... in effect, it's like a test.
COUNSELOR: Acquisitive. How would I be if I took this gift and didn't ... and don't give something (ph) back?
PATIENT: It wouldn't ... I would never expect anything back. I don't see you ...
COUNSELOR: A card, a call ...
PATIENT: No, I ... that could occur to me, I don't know how I would feel about that.
COUNSELOR: I think I would be pretty acquisitive. You know? Taking and ...
PATIENT: I don't think you always take things. I think ... I don't ...
COUNSELOR: You do if ...
PATIENT: No, because this is just a ... this is not given with any expectations. The only expectation I have is that ... is this idea that you would have a positive ... yeah, you know, I guess all I want back is for you to have a sense of ... I guess I have this little scenario in my mind that you were saying to your boyfriend, husband, whoever it is that's in your life, you know, "Here's one of my grateful patients and he bestowed this as a gesture on me and isn't it nice?"
COUNSELOR: No, I believe that you have ... feel gratitude at times. I also believe you feel (inaudible at 0:34:23) at other times and that ... [interesting in] (ph) ... something about whether you can be appreciated, accepted, in all your different feelings and not just when being good and grateful. And it's that I accept a part of you that, you know, gets really furious at women at times for the way they are and has lustful experience feelings and doesn't want to settle down and wants to have a lot of sex and not treat women well. Somewhere, you know, you might have those feelings. So it's not that I don't understand that you have warm feelings toward me. I recognize that and I think I've always wanted to hold space within for other kinds of feelings that you work very hard not to have. But a ... and I think that (inaudible) [0:35:58]
PATIENT: Yeah. I don't ... then I just ... I don't know. That's one thing ... I'm not sure I really want to change that because I just ...
COUNSELOR: Change what?
PATIENT: Well change my pattern of being kind of a good guy, a nice guy, a guy (inaudible) likes women, is good to women because I think that is ...
COUNSELOR: I'm just saying that if your job is to always like women, always be good to women, you're building up a ... quite a pool of resentment when they won't always come through.
PATIENT: Yeah.
COUNSELOR: And they're not going to always come through.
PATIENT: Yeah.
COUNSELOR: I think sometimes you give out ahead to kind of guarantee some kind of way that is going to feel [aren't I really] (ph) in an effort to try to make something be a certain way and then there's really tremendous frustration, disappointment, frustration and anger in the wake of that. And that's why I keep coming back to giving Jemma an overly expensive gift that she didn't expect. That came from you, you know? So that's where I'm kind of (inaudible) in the same way as it's not necessary for you to give me a gift for me to accept you in ... the whole of you, you know? There's a grateful part and a (inaudible) part and ...
PATIENT: No, I appreciate that, but I guess this is like this is just one part of my life where I feel like I'm going to kind of maybe take the risk of getting angry and getting frustrated because maybe there's this little hope that ... that if I do this often enough and long enough with enough women, it will be like the search for the Cinderella, you know, there will be some woman out there somehow some way that will respond to that, that will have the insight that you have in terms of understanding what it's about and will find a way to make ... to really express (inaudible at 0:38:45) so I guess that's why I probably just keep doing it. That's ... I think because I think that I ...
COUNSELOR: When you [approach a woman with an eye to] (ph) and you have to ... with this model in your mind and (inaudible) and having to be (inaudible) and then (inaudible) on the (inaudible) out for signs of all kinds of things like (inaudible) she's (inaudible) attention focused on you, is she (inaudible) consequence of the (inaudible) that (inaudible). And I don't know that that is so amenable to the right woman coming along, you know, because I think (inaudible).
PATIENT: Yeah. No, I ...
COUNSELOR: (inaudible) and the way of thinking. [0:40:07]
PATIENT: Yeah. Yeah. I guess the problem with it is that maybe it seems ... it could seem to women as too manipulative, it's not [honest enough] (ph) and so it might be better for me to be more ... to be less overly kind maybe and ...
COUNSELOR: (inaudible) to instructions on how you should be and I'm really hoping that you can take a look at the kind of emotional level (inaudible) this strategy (inaudible).
PATIENT: Yeah. Yeah. Well, I mean I think what you're getting at is some sense of insecurity and anxiety about how I come across and so ... which I have. I doubt that I'm going to be able to dramatically (inaudible) life history kind of lived with certain sense of unease in myself with who I am and (inaudible) just has to work harder and try harder than the average guy to get the attention (inaudible).
COUNSELOR: Well I wonder who I am to you when I appear as that dominating, taking, impossible-to-please woman?
PATIENT: Just symptomatic of every woman.
COUNSELOR: Of every woman.
PATIENT: (inaudible) this lifelong frustration not being able to get what I want from a woman. It's just a statement (ph) (inaudible) that I either have to ... somehow I have to make such ... the radical changes I have to make [in my life then] (ph). But I guess what it says to me is what I ... what I could do, which I've often thought of doing, is take a sabbatical from women for a year and just work on myself. I think that's probably what it comes down to. [0:42:33]
COUNSELOR: [I think we're going to have to stop in a few minutes] (ph). Can you tell me something about how you're feeling right now? Your (inaudible).
PATIENT: I mean I'm frustrated I guess because ... I mean in one sense you're pointing out a problem that is so big and so potentially insurmountable.
COUNSELOR: Okay. You're frustrated.
PATIENT: Yeah, that I could just say, "I'd better think about changing my whole operating style," you know, and first come to grips with why ... where these anxieties come from and how can I ... how can I possibly at 50 years old start making these VAST changes. But on the other hand I think what you're ... but then it just clicked for me that maybe there is something to be said for taking ... that you really put your finger on something that is ... I mean, it's so palpable to you and that it probably evident to me that I've just ... I've been doing the same thing and it hasn't gotten me where I want to go. So if I don't change ... if I don't do something drastic to change it, then it won't change. So what I need to change ...
COUNSELOR: You said palpable to me. I don't know if that means that this resonates for you or I'm being ... I'm pushing you around.
PATIENT: No, but then you're just ... you're recognizing a pattern that I have long indulged in ... [doing it here] (ph) as I described my efforts to attract women outside here. It's just very evident that I'm doing something that is counterproductive to me and self-defeating and is not good for me and that you've [cleaned it up] (ph) and basically leading up to me to say that I just feel frustrated by the vast challenge or come to a New Year's Eve resolution that I'm going to make some vast changes in my life. [0:45:00]
COUNSELOR: [That's the] (ph) only way ... I can really feel how powerful this is because as you speak, [I'm thinking] (ph) (inaudible) As you speak, it tends to cloud that deliberate attempt to put criticism and ...
PATIENT: But this is really good because this is really kind of a breakthrough I think for us in a way in that I think you really, more so maybe today than you have in a long time, really been more precise and really ... in telling me that what I'm doing is ... needs to be changed and I ... I think you felt kind of ...
COUNSELOR: (inaudible) time I think what you're doing causes you (inaudible).
PATIENT: Yes.
COUNSELOR: And that ...
PATIENT: Let's not beat around the bush it's there and you can either ...
COUNSELOR: And it's that pain that ...
PATIENT: Then you'd better do something.
COUNSELOR: It's causing you a lot of pain and ...
PATIENT: No, it is good ... it is good feedback but I think I felt a lot of our past sessions that I (inaudible) you've been more like a psychoanalytic session and I'm free-associating, going and going and going and today ... I'm ... it's nice to have ... you know, it's a lot of ... more feedback and I think you've helped me identify something that's been in my life for a long time but I really have been kind of tiptoeing around it. And I don't want you to shy away from saying that you're nervous that you kind of tipped over this beehive ... [0:46:57]
COUNSELOR: Well I'm only thinking that you know like many other times, your response is if (inaudible) and that now you have to ... and I'm setting you off to do this vast kind of hostile task of completely changing everything about yourself and that that's back into this script where the woman has an impossible demand.
PATIENT: Yeah.
COUNSELOR: As I just proposed that you completely revamp yourself (inaudible). That's what I mean.
PATIENT: Yeah. But why not? I mean, you can put it out there. It's your ... no reason not to put it out there and I'm a big boy, I can ...
COUNSELOR: Well [we can] (ph) just pay attention to the reaction because I think it duplicates ... I think we experience again and again the dilemma that you're in.
PATIENT: Yeah. Yeah. And so ... that's it. I am treading water in this area of my life, I think the relationship with Jemma I've been treading water, our relationship I'm treading water. Maybe it's ... you know, I need to do ... you know, it's the turn of the year and maybe this is a time to set some bold challenges and my ... and I'd like ... and you've said over several times and I want to kind of push and push and push. I mean that's a different ... different tactics that you've used in the past. And I would encourage you to ... I think this could be good. I would like you to kind of be a pain in the ass to me in effect. Be challenging and critical and be the difficult woman because that's what the world ... I mean the reality is that the world for Aidan Curtis, given where I am in my life, is filled with nothing but [the problem] (ph). So I either have to overly compensate and build up resentment or I have to make some changes. So I want you to continue to be a pain in the ass to me.
COUNSELOR: We have to stop, and you're off for the next two weeks.
PATIENT: Right. Okay. Great. [Will you accept this?] (ph)
COUNSELOR: Um ...
PATIENT: I would like it if you would.
COUNSELOR: Yes, I'll accept it.
PATIENT: Okay, good. And for Dr. Waner? Do you have any ...?
COUNSELOR: I'm not going to be able to deliver that to him.
END TRANSCRIPT
