<font size="4"><b>Chapter XVI</b></font>

I want to write of two instances of the kind of work
that is entrusted to me.


One night I was guided over the seas to a great desert
where I met a large caravan of Arabs with their camels
about to start on a journey. I made myself known to
the chief; he was evidently expecting me, for to my
great surprise he called me at once by my name.


"If you get up into the howdah, we can talk as we go
along. You come from a far country, my lord. I am
only lately knowing your God: I have become a Christian.
In my dreams I was told on the seventh night at the
entrance to the desert one would come to talk. You are
a prisoner on earth, I am told: I too am to be a prisoner,
but first you are to tell me of your experiences that I
may be comforted under torture and not deny my Lord
and Master. In our country the Christian is stoned to
death, or if he escapes has all his wealth confiscated and
becomes a beggar by the wayside at whom all may scoff."


We proceeded on our journey and I told him of the
power of Prayer and how Love helped me over the
difficult way. The time passed quickly, and just before
dawn a band of marauders met us and took my new
friend prisoner. I awoke in a panic at the dreadful sight
of my friend's murder. Life had ended very swiftly
for him ....

[p. <i>61</i>]

Another bit of work I was allowed to do was away in
the Azores, where I went one night with a message for
a man who is there cultivating what is apparently desolate
waste rock but is really a great guano district. His wife
and children are in England, the former is very
dangerously ill and is crying out for him day and night.
He is living alone in the wilds, no cable could reach him:
he is out of all communication with the civilised world.


My work was to impress upon him the necessity of
returning to England at once. I sent a feeling of
uneasiness into his brain, mental pictures of his wife in
great need of him. I had to persevere for some hours;
at last he became so troubled that he determined to start
off at once as soon as the day broke.


I was able to follow part of his journey, and I have
since been told that he caught the mail boat home.


Much other work is given me in my sleep and some day
I hope to write more, but now spring is in the air and I
must go into the grounds for some air and exercise.

