<font size="4"><b>Nine</b></font>

CONTROVERSY boiled over the advent of superpower.
The rabid DX fan with the misfortune to live anywhere in
the vicinity of a high-powered transmitter lost his pleasure
and his pastime, because superpower signals blanketed his set
from one end of the dial to the other; unless he was equipped
with wave traps, he could bring in only the one station. On
the other hand, superpower was a bonanza to listeners at a
distance. With just an ordinary three-or four-tube set they
got remarkably clear reception.


Expensive experiments were carried on and in well-aimed
propaganda explained to the public. In <i>Wireless Age</i> for
May, 1926, for example, the chief broadcast engineer of the
Radio Corporation of America, Dr. Alfred N. Goldsmith,
wrote:
<cit>
<q>
</q></cit>

Super-power broadcasting is the beginning of an efficient and
economical broadcast reception. It is simply an intelligent, and
will be a successful, attempt to reduce maintenance costs of receivers,
and improve the reliability and quality of reception over
great areas throughout the country. This is the reason why such
stations as WJZ, Bound Brook, New Jersey, mean a great deal
to the future of the radio art; they act as sign posts, pointing to a
future of radio broadcasting on an economically sound basis,
with minimum burden on the listeners and lowered costs for
transmission power.

[p. <i>88</i>]

To those of us engaged in broadcasting the tests in the
studio, it was an exciting adventure in reaching the largest
number of people. In a short time our station earned the
reputation of being the successful pioneer in this new step.
Coupled with having been given my second chance at WJZ,
it acted as an incentive to me to cut out the foolishness and
do my level best. Hours meant nothing. I would work day
and night, and not let drinking or any other aspect of personal
life interfere with my work.


It is the idle hands for which the devil finds the mischief;
when interest runs high and you are kept busy, it is not difficult
to stay in the straight and narrow. There were not
many idle moments. Mrs. Julian Heath was putting on a
better show than ever, and the mail that welcomed our being
together again was the surprise of the age. She was president
of the newly formed Housewives' League; <i>Radio Review</i>
and <i>Radio Home</i> gave her sustained publicity. The other
shows I handled had grown bigger and better, too.


Radio was now taking a big step toward commercialism.
While nobody was allowed to buy time on the air, it was
acceptable to the station for a firm to pay for the talent; it
became logical for the hour or half hour filled by the paid
talent to carry the name of the firm. When the Royal Typewriter
Company paid for an orchestra and a singing team, a
script was written and the show called "The Royal Typewriter
Musical Comedy Hour." Snyder's Catsup people paid for a
variety show featuring Gus Haenchen's Orchestra, and it was
billed in newspaper notices as "The Snyder Catsup Hour."
Delta Pearls had "Gems of Romance," with Colonel C. P.
Davis, traveler and raconteur to spin tales of love and adventure;
the parts of this program that were dramatized brought
to radio the famous and elegantly British voice of Frank
Knight. When the response to my spur-of-the-moment reading
of "Fish Head" created the trend of the continued story,
which developed into "Dramatized True Stories," naturally
the talent bill went to <i>True Story</i> magazine.


Thomas Cook &amp; Son engaged Malcolm LaPrade to do
travelogues, a radio version of travel short subjects that were
having a success in the movie theaters.

[p. <i>89</i>]

<i>Collier's</i> magazine unveiled a very remarkable personality,
in the form of one of its editors, John B. Kennedy, probably
the very first of that now numerous breed, the radio news
analyst. His delivery was lean, austere, authoritative, and his
observations and opinions so incisive that the station, feeling
its way toward public approval and consequently inclined to
be timid, suffered nightmares over possible repercussions.
Everybody breathed sighs of relief as time went on and Mr.
Kennedy's verbal avalanches turned out to make more
friends for the station and radio than it did enemies.


The piano monologuist came to radio in the person of a
talented young man named Ray Perkins, whose services were
paid for by the humor magazine of the day, <i>Judge</i>. The "Bonnie
Laddies" helped the sale of shoes for the Sundial Shoe
Company. They were Wilfred Glenn (also the bass in a well-known
quartet called "The Shannon Four") and an amazing
young man, Dale Wimbrow, playing a ukulele he had made
and labeled "the Wimbrola." Wimbrow, a leaping extrovert,
would establish the mood for the show by arriving in the
studio brandishing a fabulous cane (carved by himself of
some wood of unparalleled rarity), and strumming his ukulele,
he would sing songs of his own composition and Glenn
would harmonize with him. Together they would kick around
a dazzling hodgepodge, by turn whimsical and philosophical,
well-paced, excellent entertainment. If Sundial was Wimbrow
and Glenn's benefactor, Wimbrow was theirs; seizing
on the sundial connotation, his agile mind gave them their
slogan, "Time will tell."


In those days the radio industry functioned with the collective
ear very much to the ground. Everybody watched what
everyone else didwatched, imitated, and prayed that their
programs would be best and capture the audience.


Something else was happening, even more important to
radio. Discernibly, sales of those products that were mentioned
on the air jumpedbut high! When companies showed
sales charts to their advertising agencies, comparing results
of radio mention with results obtained through newspaper,
magazine, and billboard advertising, agency men showed a
tendency to lower their noses to a more respectful elevation,

[p. <i>90</i>]

As I was now chief announcer of WJZ, the programs
handed to me were the cream of the crop. My job was to
take the general plan for each program and prepare the
"script" on the basis of the list of selections for broadcast;
the script was a sort of smoother-outer, stuffed with provocative
connecting words, adroitly placed. When I had any spare
time, I was put on the air with sports events, interviews with
interesting guests, spot news, and miscellaneous "experimental"
broadcasts; all these were strictly ad lib; as best I could,
I snatched up salient facts, spinning the actual story after I
got on the air. A spider with a deadline for finishing his web
had nothing on me.


It afforded the kind of climate in which I flourished. Now
my mind was alert, my reactions quicker, keener, and also
more disciplined. Experience was teaching me well.


The celebrated, petite, charming Mary Pickford was prevailed
upon to come to the station to be interviewed on the
air. She had been in the picture business so long, had such
a towering reputation as a winner over great obstacles, that
it never entered my mind she would not be able to take the
innovation of radio broadcasting in stride.


She arrived mere minutes before we were to take the air.
I greeted her, my mind racing over the way I would handle
the interview, my eye gathering up the descriptive details
that would appeal to the listeners. I got the signal from the
control room.


"How do you do, ladies and gentlemen, how <i>do</i> you do.
This is Norman Brokenshire. At this moment it is my great
and particular privilege to introduce to you America's Sweetheart
... lovely person ... heart-warming portrayals ... childhood
roles to present day ... endeared herself to your hearts.
... I am indeed happy and thrilled to present the one and
only"


I looked from the microphone just in time to see Mary
Pickford's expression of horror. She reached out one shaking
finger and touched the microphone. "You mean," she said
faintly, "they can hear everything I say?"

[p. <i>91</i>]

Nodding, trying not to gulp, I said, "And nowMiss Mary
Pickford," whereupon Miss Pickford fainted in a heap at my
feet. I scooped her off the floor, holding her draped over my
right arm while I said into the microphone, "Neighbors, in
the pleasure and excitement of Miss Pickford's being here,
there are one or two things I forgot to tell youthings I feel
sure will increase your pleasure in hearing her." I raced
wildly on. Someone had rushed up with a glass of water and
had the presence of mind also to rub her tiny wrists.


Let it be said for Miss Pickford, the trouper, that she made
it; as I was easing into the new, "And now Miss Pickford,"
she pulled herself up by main force to her five-feet-nothing,
set her lips with determination, mustered a small, shaken
smile, and framed the words, "I'm ready now, thank you."


If you couldn't be flexible in the face of emergency, you
had no future in the radio of those days, because hardly a
day was without its emergencies. Once when I was in the
throes of introducing a string quartet, a broken cello string
cut across the air like a snake whip. Throwing the cellist a
"Don't worry, fix it!" glance, I pulled out of some crevice
of my mind a detailed description of the making of gut
strings and why they were used; before I was through, the
new string was in place, stretched, tuned, and ready for playing.


Queen Marie proved to be an exercise in rolling a star of
large magnitude around in the hand. Nowadays a queen
would not come to radio; radio would go to the queen. But
such was the newness of the medium that no one knew any
better than to ask the Queen of Romania to come to the
studio; being a bouncing and obliging lady, full of both good
nature and curiosity, she came.


We did have the gentility to roll a red carpet from the entrance
of 33 West 42nd Street to the curb. With a police
escort and a clamorous convoy of cars filled with reporters
Her Majesty's black limousine rolled to a stop. I offered my
arm, and she alighted, blazing with jewels and aswirl in a
sumptuous gown of satin with a great flowing wrap of purple
velvet; as I escorted her into the building, I kept up a running
flow of conversation that I prayed would have the

[p. <i>92</i>]

She was what we in America call a good sport. She was
vital and interested, always a good subject for being interviewed.
Nothing she had to say would shake the world, but
she adjusted herself so easily to the occasion that she might
have been a trained actresswhich, come to think of it, I
guess she was.


Sandwiched in among such headline stuff, out-of-studio
work was very much on the increase. In addition to luncheon,
dinner, and late dance music from the better-known hotels
and clubs, there was an ever growing list of special dinners
and meetings during which, from a vantage point somewhere
under a table or behind a drapery, I would prepare the way,
describing the occasion and the scene, carefully leading the
listening audience up to the moment when the main speaker
would go into his "unaccustomed as I am to public speaking"
bit. The special affairs were many; one I shall never forget
The Old Maids' Club, holding a shindig at the Lorraine
Grill. Just why a group of men should call themselves The Old
Maids escapes me, but I remember that they were an ultra-hilarious
bunch with a vast prejudice against limiting their
drinking. By the time I arrived with an engineer to set up
the microphones and line amplifier, it was a question whether
enough order could be restored to produce the program.


I tried every means I could think of for quieting things
down and getting their attention. Finally I gave up anything
sensible. I went out on the dance floor with my mike. I
stretched out full length on the floor, leaned on an elbow,
and placed the mike beside me. As I hoped, this outlandish
performance captured the attention of members and their
guests, and they gave up their antics to watch me; soon there
was enough order to present the music, some story of the
group, and more music. This sort of thing developed my
reputation. From in town and out the studio received demands
for my public appearance.


The powers were still hoping to restrict the announcer to
the role of paid employee who would just do his work and

[p. <i>93</i>]

Another interesting rule existed at this time. If announcers
had no knowledge of the nature or source of upcoming programs,
they would not be able to make secret plays to grab
them. Accordingly, announcers were forbidden to set foot in
the programing department without an eighteen-carat invitation
and firm appointment. In other words, no dropping
in just to look around. The period of keeping announcers in
their place, and keeping that place as limited as possible,
acted also as a deterrent to office politics. Radio was growing
up.


Thinking that the mounting mail might go to my head,
Mr. Popenoe ordered the mail department to keep it from
me. I had long since learned how important to an announcer
mail could be, and I hit the stratosphere. This, I howled,
was not right; this was <i>my</i> mail.


Mr. Popenoe's answer was ready and waiting. "The <i>station</i>
gives the program to the public, hence what the public writes
in response belongs to the station." I got the point; that was
the end of that. No mail, no swelled head. As I couldn't
argue with the manager, I handed things over to Uncle Sam.
I went around to the main post office, Eighth Avenue and
Thirty-third Street, rented their largest box, and filled out a
change-of-address card. When the station mail dropped with
a thud to less than half its former volume, with <i>none</i> for
Brokenshire, Popenoe was baffled. Before long he encountered
me, carrying huge bundles of mail that had not come
through his mail room; he withdrew the order to the mail
department.


Meanwhile, enough of the top-secret studio mail was demanding
personal appearances by me to give the powers difficulty
in sleeping nights. Public opinion has a long record
of winning. News just happened to get out that Norman
Brokenshire was going to take the Record Boys, a well-received
musical group, as entertainment on May 27 to the
annual Schwaebischer Maennerchor concert and ball in
Bridgeport.... Norman Brokenshire and the brilliant monologuist
Senator Ford were going to entertain at a charity

[p. <i>94</i>]

My only real rival was Graham McNamee, who dominated
the frequency of our great competitor, Station WEAF, or
<i>Weef</i>, as everyone in the trade called it.


WEAF was going commercial now, too, perhaps even a
little more rapidly than we, by virtue of the dignity of RCA,
were permitted to.


You, my friends, may be wondering why I have not mentioned
the Atwater Kent Hour, the Happiness Boys, the Ever-ready
Hour, the Silver-masked Tenor, the A.&amp;P.; Gypsies,
Cliquot Club Eskimos, and some others of the period. In
writing these words I am reliving those early days of radio,
the moods, the jealousies; to us of the "great" WJZ, anything
even remotely connected with WEAF or American Tel. &amp;
Tel. was a sort of shameful knowledge that, in all loyalty,
we were duty bound to concealeven from ourselves! Actually
we were all too well aware of those programs being produced
downtown somewhere. But we were obligated to leave
the knowledge strictly alone, like a hot poker. In fact, on
the bulletin board at 33 West 42nd Street a notice was posted
that read as follows:


"Any staff members of WJZ found in or about the Telephone
Building will be fired without notice."

[p. <i>95</i>]

At WJZ, meanwhile, our pay had been raised; I think mine
was now sixty-five dollars a week. We were forbidden to accept
any outside remuneration in any manner, shape, or form
for any job done as representatives of WJZ. In lieu thereof
I was plied on every hand with "gifts": a cigarette case, inscribed
to me with thanks; a monogrammed gold belt buckle,
watches, pigskin wallets with eighteen-carat gold corners; one
more imaginative and grateful recipient of my services had
the engenuity to have a placque made up for me that contained
a twenty-dollar gold pieceremovable.


Fan letters often came in the form of books, candy, jars
of homemade cookies, pressed flowers, clippings from local
newspapers, jewelry. I was the new sweetheart; girls even
sent me rings, given to them by onetime swains who had now
fallen into their bad graces. One woman bundled into a box
and sent me everything left to her when her husband died,
including a deed to some real estate. A nursery on Long-Island
wrote me that they were holding for my instructions a
most beautiful maple tree, purchased for me by one of my
admiring listeners. What to do with it was something of a
problem, as I lived on Forty-third Street in the heart of Manhattan
and no trees were yet being planted in cement sidewalks.
I guess the nursery still has the tree. Ties, shirts, hand-knitted
socks, engraved stationery, recipes for making homebrew,
a curl cut from some girl's head and tied with a blue
ribbonmy office desk groaned under all this tangible
response.


Once between shows I had to get a couple of hours' rest.
It was my long day, and I went to my hotel where I left strict
do-not-disturb instructions. Within the hour my telephone
rang. The switchboard said a man was calling who absolutely
had to see me, a matter of life or death. So I dashed water
in my face and received him, to learn that he was the worried
husband of an ardent radio fan who had lately given up
interest in everything else in order to write me a stream of

[p. <i>96</i>]

Together we searched through a pile of letters I had in the
room. He found several in his wife's handwriting, unopened.
We read them together and formulated an answer, suggesting
as gently and kindly as possible that a radio personality
was not worth such emotional sacrifices. The husband went
away, taking with him this honest letter, which we hoped,
plus his loving attentions, would restore her to a rational way
of life. Days later I found a message at the hotel, in which
the husband reported that she was improving.


Oh, yes, these were high-pressure days, exciting days, days
of unclouded blue skies, of limitless horizons.


The little girl who had for so long kept me posted on inside
information, and who had made me that somewhat mixed
visit to Washington, was also progressing. WJZ now had an
artist bureau, and she was in charge of developing it. Her
job was to find program talent that would serve regularly
both on radio and outside bookings.


When she first came to New York from Pittsburgh, she had
been married, one of those routine marriages that are the lot
of many a girl who becomes restless and unhappy at home
and sees in marriage the best way out. This one had lasted
only a few weeks. After the separation she was forced to look
for a job. She put ads in the Situations Wanted columns, and
the one that turned out successfully got her a job at WJZ.
We had much in common; she got her job only about two
weeks after I got mine, and soon we were acquainted.


I discovered that this was a girl with whom I felt at ease.
She proved her friendship over and over again. She was miserably
unhappy about her marital stalemate, and I saw my
chance to return some of the good turns she had done me
by helping to find a way of extricating her. Through an attorney
with whom I had a passing acquaintance, I attempted
to get things started toward the divorce she felt she wanted.

[p. <i>97</i>]

Radio was rushing ahead pell-mell. New stations were popping
up like mushrooms, and New York was no exception.
It seemed that a clothier named George Sultzbach, duly impressed
with the possibilities of radio, had, under the name
of George F. George, formed a corporation called the Peoples
Broadcasting Company. There were dazzling stories about its
plans and potential, and Lewis Reid, having been approached
with an offer that would double his salary, had decided to
make the change.


Eunice kept me posted, too, on inner-office feelings about
my giant rise to popularity and the constant running battles
pro and con over my being permitted to make outside appearances.
On the one hand, it was thoughtgrudginglyto be
good public relations for the station, especially since it cost
them nothing; on the other hand, it was considered to be
dangerously inflating my ego. Furthermore, if I wasn't actually
being paid under the table now, it was only a question
of time till it would be so, with the inevitable consequence
that my fees and status would ascend to such heights that my
example would disrupt the whole announcing profession.


Things were just as this stage when Atlantic City requested
me as master of ceremonies for its beauty pageant. DeWolfe
Hopper had always been King Neptune, and he ran the affair;
but the city had a radio station now, and they wanted a
man with the publicity value of being connected with radio,
who could vividly point up the colorful ceremonies on the air.


At first WJZ gave a cold no. But the World's Playground
officials were hardy souls and would not give up. "All right,"
said RCA, "you can have him provided <i>we</i> get the credit for
<i>giving</i> him to you, and he gets no pay!"


Popenoe called me in. "In letting you do this I want you
to understand that it is not a vacation," he said. "You are
to commute between here and Atlantic City, maintaining

[p. <i>98</i>]

My feelings were somewhat soothed by the <i>official</i> announcement
of the station, over the signature of Herbert
Glover, that "this is the first time in the history of the pageant
that a radio announcer has been chosen for this important
work. His duties will require him to preside as master of
ceremonies at the judging of the most beautiful girl in America,
and act as official announcer to the boardwalk throngs.
He will also serve in similar capacity at the coronation of
Miss America in the ballroom of the Million-Dollar Pier.
From time to time Brokenshire's voice will be heard through
Atlantic City's Municipal Broadcasting station WPG as guest
announcer. Brokenshire's selection for this assignment represents
one of the first tributes paid by the general public to
the rapidly rising ranks of radio announcers."


Life has a way of dealing out warnings against overassessing
ourselves, warnings that if we grasp them, should have salutary
effect.


One evening, after a too short rehearsal, we were putting
on a gala show in the studiothe Record Boys; Frank Camplain,
Sammy Stept, and Al Bernard, recording artists; a
piano and harmony team; and a yodeler.


It was a spot of fun from beginning to end, jokes and funny
sayings combined with harmony and patter. I always handled
this show, and it was strictly ad lib, off the cuff. After the
usual greetings and the yodeling theme we got into the harmony
number.


I saw someone signal me from the door of the studio.
While the boys were singing, I went over and was handed a
telegram. Having to watch the timing, I brought it back to
the microphone. The number finished. Interjecting something
gay, I announced the next number. Then I opened the
telegram.


"YOUR FATHER DIED THIS AFTERNOON AT TWO O'CLOCK," it
read, and it was signed "MOTHER."


The thought leaped into my mind, I don't want to see him
dead. I must escape that. Telescopically I saw my sister Carol
again, cold, pink, waxlike. Now my father was like that I

[p. <i>99</i>]

The number finished. I signaled Al Bernard to ad lib something,
anything. Al told a gag. They were all looking at me.
Pick it up, I reminded myself, pick it up! "And now ladies
and gentlemen" Tensely I pulled the tone up, made the
resonance in the voice come through. I began to feel the
mood of the show come back into my grasp. How many
more minutes to go? "What's that, boys? A yodeling song?
Just what the doctor ordered. Frank Camplain in Silver
Moon, Sammy Stept at the piano." I wanted the show to go
on and on and on. When it was over, I would have to reply
to the telegram....


I wrote my mother a letter. When the funeral was over,
and the burial, I went to see her.


Three days of the hectic New YorkAtlantic City schedule
-- the glitter and pageantry, the exotic settings and beautiful
build-ups at Atlantic City, the routine broadcasts in New
Yorkgave me a sharp picture of what Popenoe's prohibitions,
his itch to hold me down, meant to me in the face of
exciting demands from the outside world, a more exciting,
more remunerative outside world. I turned rebellious. Something
had to change.


After three days of having the whole Atlantic City police
force at my beck and call, alter being wined and dined and
feted and flattered, after hobnobbing with a cloud of the
most beautiful girls of the nation, after having the use of
Nucky Johnson's penthouse apartment, I came to the reluctant
good-bys to allthe important people who engineered
the pageant; a sentimental good-by to Fay Lanphier, the retiring

[p. <i>100</i>]

Here, away from the station on neutral ground, on an
equal footing, I was able to talk to this man; while he minimized
the announcer as such, I told him I was convinced that
I personally could go places as a free lance. I told him frankly
how I felt about outside possibilities and that maybe the best
way all around was for me to resign and go it alone!


"You'll be making a mistake," said Popenoe. I could see
that to him I was still only a hotheaded whippersnapper; because
of a little success I had delusions of grandeur.


What he didn't know was that I wouldn't be taking as big
a chance as he guessed. I had received word from Canada that
the estates of two aunts, long in the courts, had finally been
settled and were to be equally divided between the four boys
in my family and the five boys in Uncle John's family. This
would mean eight or ten thousand dollars for me.


What <i>I</i> didn't know was that plans were in motion to join
the forces of the great competitors, WJZ and WEAF, to form
the giant National Broadcasting Company; which as it turned
out was to dominate the air for years.


Back in New York, so far as anybody could see, the shiny
new watch on my wrist was the only thing about me that
had changed. But in my mind things were humming.


On a September evening with the orchestra and quartet
I finished doing the Reading Railroad Revelers, a happy
make-believe travel program, and went to keep an appointment
with a Dr. Jarvis and a Mr. Prince, two gentlemen who
had sketched in a very flattering way a picture of me as the
man in charge of the radio department of Arrow Amusement
Corporation, an outfit newly formed by them. Their offices
were upstairs over the Palace Theatre at Forty-seventh Street
and Seventh Avenue.

[p. <i>101</i>]

They took me so into their confidence, so swinging me over
to their way of thinking, that I decided not only to resign
from WJZ at once but to turn over the major part of my
inheritance to them as an investment in their prospects. This
decision was made in good faith, man to man; and it never
occurred to me to check into the men or their company. I am
impulsive and trusting by nature; this time I was nave as
well, being at the moment impelled by a definite ambition
as well as a combination of pressures. For some time, for
instance in talking before Rotarians, Kiwanians, and many
other service organizations, I had been prophesying a new
type of production in radio shows that I called personalized
productions, borrowing from the method of the motion-picture
industry with its "Cecil B. DeMille Production,"
"John Ford Production," and the like; an expert put his
standards and experience into a project that then carried his
name as its hallmark of quality. I had visions of shows with
which I was connected for Arrow Amusement bearing the
tag, "A Brokenshire Production," in the same way that today
a TV production bears the name of Robert Montgomery as
its producer, or "Dragnet" is known as "A Mark VII Production."


In the belief that Jarvis and Prince had numerous connections,
I foresaw many and varied possibilities including the
vaudeville and private entertainment fields; already in my
mind's eye I saw my name in lights, in gold letters on an office
door, and prominently on every script the meaningful words,
"This has been a Brokenshire Production."


Being by nature a precipitous, no-time-like-the-present guy,
if I were going to do a thing, I wanted to get on with it. So
I said I would join them the following week, and we shook
hands on it all around.


I left them to do the late Saturday night broadcast from
the roof garden of the Hotel Astor. Throughout the show my
mind was busy painting mental pictures of a fabulously
golden future; by sign-off time I had reached a bold decision.
At my request the orchestra played for its last number of the
evening "Auld Lang Syne." Through the music Brokenshire
resigned publicly from WJZ.

[p. <i>102</i>]

What it lacked in orthodox method it made up in graciousness.
I dwelt on how nice it had been for me through the
years to be with WJZ, for they had been the important, formative
years of radio. I described how real and reachable the
listening audience had become to me, part of my personal,
everyday life. The listeners must not feel now that I was
leaving them for long; rather that I was making a change
that would enable me to serve them better. At the end the
ham in me came out generously. Withdrawing slowly from
the microphone, step by step, in a receding voice, I waved
them an imaginary an revoir. "Don't forget, you'll be hearing
me soon again. Not only hearing me, seeing me face to
face, for soon I start on a vaudeville tour. And so ... I'll be
seein' you...." I'm sure there were tears in my eyes for this
dramatic farewell.


WJZ turned my regular programs over to the other station
announcers.


That was a big step I took, and I was to feel many regrets.
But I was young; to me nothing was impossible. Success, such
as it was, had gone to my head.


When I was fully set up in my new surroundings, I issued
a publicity release. If nothing else it shows that I was far
ahead of my time; the type of program I had resigned from
WJZ to develop for Arrow did not materialize for many years.
One obstacle was the jealousies existing between stations. So
violent was the competition that any announcer appearing at
one station was automatically <i>persona non grata</i> at any other;
had Norman Brokenshire Productions come into immediate
being the very fact that one station favored its work would
have been the signal for all others to shun it. Nevertheless,
the grandiose release was news, so it went out, and I began
what I envisioned as a meteoric career with Arrow at 1562
Broadway.


In my files held together by a rusty clip are yellowed
copies of half a dozen letters and a telegram, confirming
the arrangements for providing the talent for the Greater
Wilkes-Barre Radio &amp; Electrical Exposition October 11--15,
1926. The job netted Arrow the magnificent sum of $300.00,
the exact amount charged for my services as master of ceremonies.

[p. <i>103</i>]

Many years later, by appointment I met a man at the Astor
Hotel who wanted to know how much I would give for the
return of my scrapbooks. Still years after that, I was waiting
for a taxi on Sixth Avenue between Fortieth and Forty-first
Streets, when I happened to glance in a dingy, cheap,
clothing and haberdashery store; who should I see but an
aging and unhappy-looking Mr. Prince, formerly of the Arrow
Amusement Corporation; obviously he was running this
moth-eaten two-by-four establishment. I couldn't bring myself
even to be angry with him, and I jumped into a cab and
drove away.


The Arrow Amusement Corporation having blown up in
my surprised face, I now had to find immediate work, being
really broke. It was Eunice who had the best idea for immediate
rescue. "Why don't you go and see George F. George
right away?" she suggested. "He's always wanted you on his
station, remember?" Shortly after my imposing farewell to
radio from the Astor roof garden, she left WJZ, too, joining
his station as program manager.


She was right. Mr. George was out after names for the staff,
and I was hired at $125.00 per week. Immediately I was sold
for a program sponsored by the Holland Laundry in Brooklyn,
a program called "The Holland Kids." We broadcast
from temporary studios in the Majestic Hotel on Central
Park West. Great plans were underway. The staff now consisted
of Lewis Reid, Walter Neff, Alois Havrilla, and Eunice.
Adding my name to the list, they also gave me full charge

[p. <i>104</i>]

Yet from the start I had the oddest feeling that something
about the operation was strange; something was going on;
there was an undercurrent that no one could quite put a
finger on, but I felt it.


Finally the veil was lifted on the inner doings of WFBH,
with the sudden announcement that the call letters would be
changed to WPCH, which could only mean one thing, Park
Central Hotel, a great structure nearing completion, on top
of which could be plainly seen two slender radio spires pointing
into the skyincidentally standing useless to this day. We
found out also that WPCH was going to be known as the
American Bond &amp; Mortgage Station of the Park Central
Hotel, owned and operated by the Peoples Broadcasting Corporation.
We found out that salesmen were going from door
to door, to all the friends of radio who had written in fan
letters of any kind, trying to sell them stock in the Peoples
Broadcasting Corporation. In short, George F. George was
battening on the popularity of radio and the "names" he had
caught with large salaries and a salesman's build-up.


In the minds of some of us it raised questions, but things
went along. Programs were built and put on the air; salaries
continued to be paid. At least here I could do outside work.


For a couple of months I sailed along, had several commercials
to do, got the artists' bureau fairly active. I decided to
publish a song I had written several years earlier, "Believe,
My Beloved, in Me." It was a waltz, not good enough to be
published commercially, but I was convinced it could be sold
to my fans and provide a good publicity angle to boot. I had
a cover made up, with my picture in the center, from which
streaks of lightning radiated, representing radio; between
the radiating lines were the call letters of every station I had
been on, all the programs of note that I had announced.
"Believe, My Beloved, in Me," by Norman Brokenshire,
radio personality; published by the WPCH Artist Bureau,
N. Y. C.


I dug out carbon copies of part of my mailing list, and

[p. <i>105</i>]

The work of my new job lacked the spark. Inwardly I knew
that Eunice and I, perhaps Reid, too, had made a mistake in
leaving WJZ. So again there was more than enough drinking
in my daily life. In fact the whole episode of the WPCH connection
seems, as I look back on it, to have taken place in a
fine misthere and there glimmers of bright, shining spots,
a broadcast that came off particularly well, a coup of some
sortbut as a whole the period seems mighty blurred. I was
certainly not happy. My horizons had narrowed; I managed
to see very little of my old friends; the future at this point
was something I preferred not to imagine. As long as I kept
myself half drunk, I didn't have to meet the eye of reality.


I was requested to do some special commercial broadcasts
up in Bridgeport, Connecticut, over WICC. I went and was
given a prodigious welcome, with a round of cocktail parties
that did me no good because I had no brakes. The upshot
was some pretty boisterous annnouncing; it was a mild surprise
to me that in those outlying stations they didn't mind
this sort of thing in the way that a metropolitan station
would; in fact, they talked humorously of those crazy programs
for years.


One coup I recall was in November of 1926. I arranged to
broadcast the opening of the new John Golden Theatre. I
loved John Golden as a man, felt proud to be granted the
privilege of inaugurating this landmark in honor of his name
and works. For once I meant every nice word I said. The
building; still stands; the last time I entered it was about a
year ago, when I was doing a TV show with Jessie DeBoth,
a food and cooking showshades of Mrs. Julian Heath!


The call letters were changed from WFBH to WPCH on
December 6 with appropriate inaugural ceremonies. Our offices
were moved from the Majestic Hotel to a large floor of

[p. <i>106</i>]

Everyone who was anyone was invited to this gala broadcast;
artists came from the Strand Roof, the Knickerbocker
Grill, the Club Richman; there were Ray Perkins, the Radio
Franks, Senator Ford, Andy Sanella, Irving Kaufman, Sam
Herman, Jack Schilkret's Orchestra, the Revelers Quartet.
There were famous personalities of the theater: Marjorie
Rambeau, Augustin Duncan, Mary Desti; the great artist
Howard Chandler Christy and many, many others put in
appearances. Artists and guests paraded through the two studios,
where the staff took turns announcing throughout the
night.


I was introducing a specialty act at one point. The young
man had real talent; his act consisted of vibrating a musical
saw with a bow. Seemingly the beautiful wailing sounds were
peculiarly adapted to radio transmission. But so far as I was
concerned the surprise and the laugh of the evening came
with a telephone call, just as I was about to introduce the
young man's second number. The call was from none other
than the great promoter, George F. George, who was listening
to the program at his home. "Who's the soprano that's
singing?" he roared. "I can't understand a word she says."


The bars, set up around the studios and adjoining offices
to make guests feel at home, were liberally patronized by the
staff as well. Somewhere along the line, finding congenial
company, I just continued with them, leaving the work to
others. In the course of the night so hospitable was I to myself
that I faded right out of WPCH and, as it turned out, right
out of radio.


Sometime before this celebration I had joined the Green
Room Club; it was a sort of poor man's Lambs' Club, and
for awhile I lived there. Most of the members were theatrical
people who liked an atmosphere in which things were done
in a cozy, intimate sort of way. There was a great deal of
drinking at the club. I drank to whip up the courage to do
work I didn't like, then drank for relaxation after doing it,
with the result that I went into a downward spiral lasting
eight or ten days. When I came up from down under, I recalled

[p. <i>107</i>]

I did what they call an "in one" on the subway circuit. My
monologue lasted eight to twelve minutes (according to how
long the stage manager needed the curtain down behind me
to change the stage setting). I greeted the audience imposingly,
told them a few of the more interesting facts about
radio, lightening them with gags and some anecdotes of odd
happenings in the studios, and finally, with a dummy set on
stage, demonstrated the peculiar sequences of words that
could come out of a set when you tuned rapidly from one
station to another. The result was something; like this: "And
you take just three or four drops on your fingertips and rub
it into your scalp [business of turning dial, squeaks and
squeals made by the orchestra, announcer changing his voice
slightly] ... now add salt, pepper, and half a cup of cut chives
and beat until [another change of voice] ... you'll begin to
see stars."


The act went fairly well, but I was vaguely embarrassed
about it and between shows tried to tone down my inward
unhappiness by drinking busily. Combine this with a physical
condition that was run down, a weary and discouraged
heart, a horizon that now was somewhere down around my
feet, and absolutely no prospects for the future worth mentioning,
and it may suggest why the last theater where I was
booked to play never heard the "famous" voice.


The booking agent called it laryngitis. What it was, was
whisky-itis.

