<font size="4"><b>Chapter II: Boyhood</b></font>

I suppose I must have been about eight years of age
when I left the little Dame's school and went as a day
boy to my first Preparatory School. No pleasing recollections
of that again. I was sport for the older boys and
got bullied. I began to see here that if I was to be
popular with my own kind I must be good at games.
How I longed to throw a cricket ball as it had never been
thrown before! In my dreams I was always cock of the
school and executing wonderful feats at games. Unfortunately
that was all in the imagination; when my master
insisted on my sharing in games, I funked it.


One half-holiday in particular stands out from the
rest. It was cricket term. The boy who should have
played in that particular match was a first-rate bowler,
even for a boy of ten. He had sprained his wrist, so it
was decided by ballot who should take his place. The
lot fell to me. My spirits rose. I determined to show
my form, what I could do. With shaking knees and a
thumping heart I walked boldly down the field to our
pitch. Seizing the ball I held it in the most skilful way
I knewnow if only I could bowl a really good ball to
show them all I was not a rotter, but a real clever bowler
like James, how splendid it would be! I ran up to the
wicket, closed my eyes and sent down the ball. My
delivery was right outside the crease, the rest of the
over was almost as bad. I was taken off by the Captain
and I could see that even my own side were smiling,
amused and malicious. As I said before, I was much
bullied by older boys at this school and many fights took
place, in none of which did I distinguish myself. Tears
were always so very near my eyes, a blow on the nose and
I would blubber like a baby. This fact was well known
to my tormentors and it seemed to me that there was
always some one who wanted to lick Cassalis to see the
rain fall.

[p. <i>11</i>]

In my youthful innocence I was much shocked at the
way boys cribbed from each other. I was once accused
in form of having cheated. The fury that was aroused
in me was so great that, in being questioned I could not
explain to the master. Words failed me in my indignation
that such a thing should be thought of me. My
master, taking my silence for guilt, gave me three strokes
of the cane. I was so desperately angry that I struck
wildly out at my assailant, who, being in turn very wroth,
gave me three more strokes and shut me up until I should
come to my senses, as he explained it. What happened
afterwards is not very clear to my memory, but I know
that I had to stay at home for the rest of the term.


Holidays were eagerly looked forward to. We always
went to the seaside for long weeks in the summer time,
to some quiet isolated place in Wales. I could put all
unpleasant thoughts out of my brain as we ran about
all day in the delicious air that seemed to whisper to me
of all sorts of wonderful adventures I might take part in
before going back to hated school.


Time, after the first two years, passed very uneventfully.
As my health did not improve as I grew older it
was decided to send me to a school by the sea.


I don't know if my family is different from others,
but anything that was done, or going to be done, was at
once communicated by my Mother to her large circle
of relations. They in turn would reply expressing joy or
sadness as the case might be, and I think all the family
were sorry my Mother had three such delicate and most
unsatisfactory children. Though, on the other hand, my
Aunts also felt superior that their ducklings were not
always having colds, sore throats, or even bad stomachaches,
like our family!


I had no say in the matter of my change of schools,
it was decided for me. No one asked me if I cared to go
or was at all interested in the state of my mind. I was
to go to a school where I had heard the most fearsome
stories of the wrath of the headmaster, who was an old

[p. <i>12</i>]

I will not say much about this school as it is still in
existence. Life got drearier and drearier. Mr. Lloyd was
a stern man and would not brook any opinion contrary
to his own. There also I was rather a solitary boy. Days
passed in idle dreaminess, my two hobbies, stamps and
birds' eggs, were indulged in fitfully as opportunity
occurred.


The beginning of my moral downfall was here. I began
to consort with boys much older than myself, youths who
were being prepared for the army, and was drawn into
lines of thought that had a serious effect upon my health
of body and mind. I liked one boy and we became
friends. He was the average normal boy, fond of games
and good all round. He found out that I was under the
influence of older boys and tried to help me to have
courage to shake off their unhealthy influence.


Fortunately for me, at this point my health again
began to cause great anxiety and I had quite a serious
illness. In my delirium I thought I was going to die;
what a relief it would have been, and yet something
always held me back. My sister Hazel's voice reached
me through the long, dim alleys of mist. Also did I see
or did I dream at the end of the long, long blue-grey
alleys there stood a beautiful, radiant form waving me
back"Not yet, my son, is your Eternal Rest!"

[p. <i>13</i>]

After this came convalescence. I went to the seaside
with my sister. What happy hours I had! No hated
games, no awful boys; body and mind were at rest. I just
drank in eagerly all the beautiful things that I saw. It
was looking upon a new world. It was at this period that
the sea and I became friends, we had a secret. To the
sea I could talk, talk as I could to no human being.
Sometimes I sailed with Hazel. She was my sister again,
but not the sister I had left behind. I was older than
she, to me it appeared, at this time, as if a great abyss
was between us. I knowing her innocence of the knowledge
of evil that had entered my life since I went to
school.


These happy weeks passed all too soon, convalescence
came to an end. I was pronounced strong enough to go
to school again; at fifteen I went to one of our big
public schools.


I would have a law passed in England that highly
strung, delicate, sensitive boys should never be sent to
school as boarders, herded together as if they were cattle.


At first in going to Rockton I was pleased to have the
freedom and responsibility that is given to the Fifth
Form boys in these big schools. Unfortunately for me
our housemaster was a stern, cold, intellectual man who
had no sympathy beyond the classics, and was a firm
believer in the boys ruling themselves. My work placed
me high in the school, so that the boys in my dormitory
were three and four years older than myself. Life soon
began to be the same troublesome, difficult affair. Two
boys in my dormitory were beasts. I will not dwell upon
what I was called upon to endure. Sufficient to say that
at last the enormity of the evil was discovered, my
tormentors were found out and expelled.


Too late for me, the evil was wrought, and from that
hour began the long struggle between body and soul.
I loathed and hated myselfmy soul despised my
degraded body. Life had to go on, each month and year
bringing greater drains on my physical health as I

[p. <i>14</i>]
