TRANSCRIPT OF AUDIO FILE:
______________________________________________________________________________
BEGIN TRANSCRIPT:
CLIENT: I was supposed to working for Jessica for two weeks, because I was on Jessica's (inaudible at 00:07)
THERAPIST: OK.
CLIENT: But then next week she's having me work 9:00 to 5:00 with the classroom that I don't like, Audrey (inaudible at 00:25)
THERAPIST: Is that going to be the whole week?
CLIENT: Yeah. So I can't do next week.
THERAPIST: What if we met on Wednesday at 6:00?
CLIENT: I could do that. Are you serious? [You know] (ph), if you're making this appointment, you must really actually be—I must really be your favorite.
THERAPIST: You might, yeah. How'd you know?
CLIENT: Because you're agreeing to me with at 6:00 and you don't like to have six o'clock appointments.
THERAPIST: Well, yeah, we've been out of contact first, so I'll do it. How about what's your story on the (pause) what are you doing for Thanksgiving, on the 21st? Wednesday the 21st.
CLIENT: I have off that day actually. I'm taking a vacation day so I can drive down (inaudible at 01:23) with Phil and his family.
THERAPIST: That day?
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: OK. So we won't meet the 21st.
CLIENT: I can meet Tuesday the 20th.
THERAPIST: What time?
CLIENT: Starting at maybe around 4:30. I mean, I could probably get there by 4:15, maybe.
THERAPIST: OK, that might work. (pause) That might work. I'll let you know next week. 4:15 might work.
(background noise)
CLIENT: So I wanted to ask you about my, like, ADD. [00:02:28] I feel like it's been getting worse and, like, kicking back in, especially when I'm at home. I feel like I can't stick with something for a long time, especially, like, since I eat a lot faster than Phil, I can't sit at the table while he finishes. I can't, like, focus on (pause) the wedding stuff I need to focus on. And I don't know what to do, because I feel like I'm not living up to what I should be living up to, in terms of (pause) my relationship. And I don't know if it has to do with, like, anxiety about the wedding and then marriage, but I just—Phil made me promise I would ask you.
THERAPIST: He had noticed? [00:03:29]
CLIENT: No, we talked about it, because I was feeling like I suck at life this morning.
THERAPIST: Well, tell me about it. How are you feeling about the wedding?
CLIENT: I mean, I feel anxious that, like—I feel bored. And I don't know if the anxiety is first and the boredom is second, or the boredom is first and the anxiety is second, about (pause) I guess the, like, being married. Like, I feel like I'll be bored and that I'll, like, not be a good wife to him.
THERAPIST: Can you tell me what your vision, like, what do you envision about marriage?
CLIENT: I don't really think it's going to be that much different. I mean, we've been living together for three years. [00:04:39]
THERAPIST: What about the bored part? What are you envisioning?
CLIENT: I mean, I don't know, I guess I just feel bored anyway. And I don't know if it's boredom with me or boredom with him. Hey, I think I saw those chairs on—what's that PBS show, seizures, the ADD and the avoidance?
THERAPIST: (inaudible at 05:07) bored of talking about it. (laughter)
CLIENT: I wasn't getting bored of talking about it.
THERAPIST: (inaudible at 05:10)
CLIENT: Avoidance and anxiety.
THERAPIST: Tell me, were you just starting to feel something?
CLIENT: I don't know, I just—I feel like, I feel bored. Like, Phil isn't the most, like, exciting person, so I guess—I don't know if that's boredom with me, or bored with him or bored with my own life and, like, my job, but I don't feel there's, like, that excitement anymore. And I worry about that.
THERAPIST: Well, what do you notice with—you know, I'm thinking about the first (inaudible at 05:45) that came to mind for you was the two of you sitting at the table together, you finishing and wanting to get up and move, move from the table with him.
CLIENT: I don't know why, I just—I feel so—I don't know. We're not very good at making dinner conversation either, which is bad. He just...
THERAPIST: What's going on?
CLIENT: We just need to find something to talk about at dinner, like, I don't know, grab from a bag of topics. [Iraq stations] (ph). Deforestation. Climate change. I don't know, something like that. Is that thing working?
THERAPIST: Yeah.
CLIENT: OK.
THERAPIST: What does it start to feel like? [00:06:56]
CLIENT: It makes me feel like maybe we're not (pause)—it's not that we're not meant to be, but maybe we're not, like, (pause) exciting anymore. Makes me feel like what if I get so bored that I want to be with somebody else? And I don't have anybody else, like, in the lineup or anything. I'm not, like, going down that path, but I still feel like...
THERAPIST: But yeah, it kind of raises the question does the boredom mean—is it signifier of something more deep going on? And then it must be hard to just think about the boredom, what the boredom is.
CLIENT: Yeah, and so I guess the boredom makes me anxious or something. And so, you know, I've been thinking about new jobs and stuff and I applied again for the nanny services (inaudible at 08:11) didn't get a response or haven't gotten a response.
THERAPIST: Same one?
CLIENT: Yeah. Maybe I'm asking for too much a week, but (pause) I don't know. I'm also looking at a sales job, but they want you to have four years experience in elementary education, but it's a sales job for a toy company, like, an educational toy company. They sell, like, all sorts of different toys for preschool and childcare, and I guess they're expanding into the elementary school (ph) market or something like that.
And then, I guess I looked a little bit at my (inaudible at 08:58) but it kind of makes, like, I read about it online and it seems like not actually a great book (ph) store. And then I just met a guy on the train and he told me I should be looking at, like, catKimg sales jobs. (pause) So, and he gave me a phone number to call.
THERAPIST: And that's sort of relating to Phil and you in some way. What were you thinking, what was the kind of...
CLIENT: Well, I feel like if I was more interested in my job or, like, had something else going on in my life, then I wouldn't be so bored. So, like, first I want to make sure that it's not boredom with myself.
THERAPIST: I see, yeah.
CLIENT: Because I know he'll be a great partner to me and I know that we're well-matched and well suited for each other. So, like, I don't know, I guess it's also, like, pre-wedding jitters or something. [00:10:03]
THERAPIST: Yeah, I think as well, like, to reiterate that point, I mean, like in the some way, like, if you start to wonder about the boredom, does it mean then—what does it mean? Does it mean, like, the relationship—you shouldn't go forward with it or he's not the right guy or is just something that's happening between you (ph)? I mean, I guess—it's certainly a legitimate, you know, kind of concern to have in terms of, hey, it's kind of uncertain what it means, but it could be something just, you know, temporary, something that's kind of happening right now between you two or something that's—you have some dynamic that's going on.
CLIENT: He's working. He's like, whatever (inaudible at 10:57) and (pause) he told me that he's going to have to either start selling some of his stock—and he has a good stock. Like, he bought, like, small shares of Apple, maybe even, like, half shares of Apple over the past couple years and now they're worth, like, 5,000 dollars. And so he's either going to have to start selling stock or he's going to have to take a second job. And I told him I would start looking for babysitting stuff, but also look for sales jobs.
If I pull out enough hair, will you give me a trip to trichotillomania (ph) diagnosis?
THERAPIST: Only if you ask nicely.
CLIENT: Well thanks for the trash (inaudible at 11:58). (inaudible at 11:59) on your...
THERAPIST: I'd prefer it not.
CLIENT: OK. (inaudible at 12:04) germophobic OCD clients.
THERAPIST: But what about—yeah, what are you noticing between you two now? what are you kind of...
CLIENT: I just feel bored, like, I don't know. We don't talk that much, as much anymore. We're both working, looking for different jobs, planning a wedding. We don't—I don't know, I guess we're not really having as much sex and, I mean, that's (inaudible at 12:36) issue for a while. We (ph) not really...
THERAPIST: How so? What's the—what have you noticed in sort of sex, how much?
CLIENT: I don't know, like, twice (ph) a month? I don't know, I feel like (pause) it's also really hard because we're both really short on money to, like, carve out time to do things together, you know. (pause) So as I was saying, about those chairs, I think I saw them on—what's that PBS show where they are like a bunch of antique dealers? Not dealers, but they're a bunch of, like, flea market buyers and they go to flea markets and they buy things. I think I saw those chairs on that.
THERAPIST: We must be really hitting on something here.
CLIENT: We must be. Also, I don't have cable anymore so I watch a lot more PBS. Maybe that's why I'm bored.
THERAPIST: (laughter) PBS makes you bored?
CLIENT: Because I don't have cable anymore and I can't watch Bridezillas.
THERAPIST: How are you just feeling talking with me about it?
CLIENT: (inaudible at 14:11) normal, I feel OK. I feel a little—I mean, I guess it's a little weird. It's a little weird to admit that I feel unsure about our relationship, Phil and mine relationship. (pause) But it's not like—when I made bad decisions, I always get this terrible feeling in the pit of my stomach and I don't feel that feeling, so I know it can't be that bad.
THERAPIST: Yeah, let me just say something. I mean, I think you're right—it's kind of like a pre-wedding (pause)—you know, maybe you'd be thinking about this anyway, but with the wedding coming up and with the planning, it must be really a time for you to be kind of evaluating and thinking about the quality of your relationship much more frequently and thoroughly.
CLIENT: Well yeah, and we just did, like, whatever we went home, the weekend in October we went home, we did this thing called clearness, which is, like, a Quaker thing that you do and the couples ask you about your relationship and how does sex play a role in your relationship—I mean, they didn't ask us that, they just made sure that we were both on the same page about monogamy and stuff. And, you know, how does money play a role in your relationship? How do you show affection? What roles do you take in your relationship? All this stuff, and I was really anxious about it. I was really anxious, like, that it was going to be like getting into the CIA or getting interviewed for yeah, like, Google or something. [00:15:54]
THERAPIST: Like the third degree?
CLIENT: Yeah, but it wasn't. So I felt really good about that.
THERAPIST: Well, I wonder—it sounds like you're kind of—here too, in some ways. Like, how much of a third degree investigation do you kind of go on with yourself about this, about these feelings you're having, how much will I go into it? Versus, you know, is there a way for us to talk about it where it feels like it's actually helpful? It might help to understand something between the two of you that's happening. You know, in other words, instead of, like, is there a way to talk about it where it's not, like, the inquisition and more of a kind of, hey, that's important. You know, you're concerned—understandable. And can we talk about how you're feeling about Phil and how you're feeling about your sex life and how much fun you have together and how it is to talk together. How close you feel, (pause) what you've been feeling towards him. [00:17:15]
CLIENT: Sometimes I feel like I'm so used to having him around that it's just, like, it's almost like living alone now because I'm used to him being there. Or it's like he's so much a part of me that I'm just so used to him, you know. (pause) And sometimes it makes me feel like I'm marrying, like, my brother or something. (pause) But I just don't know, like, if that's the way adult love is, you know, like, or is it like still like when you're in high school and, like, the guy you like is in the room and you're like, you know, "Oh my goodness." [00:18:19]
THERAPIST: He feels like family somewhat (ph).
CLIENT: Yeah. (pause) Somebody eat an orange in here today? No, I smell your lemons—that's what I smell.
THERAPIST: Kim, what's going on?
CLIENT: I don't know, I just (pause)—I don't know. [00:19:22]
(silence)
He just always has to be looking for a job and always has to be on the computer and it just (pause) frustrates me I guess. I just want to know that, like, I mean, he thinks I'm here talking about eating, but, like, I guess it's just—and we talked about how, you know, it can be like an avoidance thing, like, how I do things to avoid, like, going on the bike—the stationery bike-—or things like that. And so, I don't know. He's reading some book about anxiety. I guess he does get anxiety too. But, like, (pause) I just don't want to have, like, a big old wedding and then, like, be bored in my marriage and get divorced. Like, nobody in our family gets divorced. Well, that's not true. (inaudible at 21:03) family though.
THERAPIST: Yeah. No, the boredom worries you. And I think you feel like, you know, it's kind of like the stationery bike. It's like, do I want to get on that thing and start working out (ph), looking at it (inaudible at 21:29). I think it's because it worries you, it worries you.
CLIENT: The boredom, it definitely worries me. Like, yeah that's absolutely right. And so I guess maybe just the two together are presenting as (pause) inattention.
THERAPIST: Yeah, I mean, not to say there's not an element of that too, but (pause) I think this is something pretty important, because I think when you feel too much in the way of anxiety, you start to feel anxiety, it can kind of feel like, "I don't know that I can handle that," whether it's a conversation or an internal kind of feeling. And I think what's good is that you're trying to nibble at this thing a bit with me today. You know, you've come with a lot, I think, just here. Sometimes it feels like we're family or we're like brother and sister. Boy, imagine that's relevant, in terms of your sex life, in terms of how, you know, you're sort of saying, "It's not like I feel that kind of charge." Well, I wonder what's going on with that.
And then this other thing you mentioned about him looking for jobs a lot and you looking for jobs a lot and wondering what that might have to do with sort of sense of feeling not simpatico or off on your own.
CLIENT: (inaudible at 23:06) I feel off on my own.
THERAPIST: When you said he's on the computer looking for jobs a lot, what is it] (ph)?
CLIENT: I don't know, it just feels like (pause)—I know he's working really hard to make our life better but, like, it's taking so long. I just wish that, like, it would be faster, you know, and then (ph), like, (pause) it's not easy to get a job. It's not easy. I mean, I feel like if he has classmates or a female and African-American males and minorities, like, not only does he have to compete with, like, people are smarter or better at this job but they're better at the job, but he also has to compete with, like, the affirmative action, you know. Not that I'm against affirmative action or anything, but (pause) I don't think it's helping him, of course. [00:24:17]
THERAPIST: What has it been like for him to be struggling to find, like, a really good job for you? How has it been for you?
CLIENT: Well, it's been hard because we can't go out as much. We can't—like, he used to earn a lot more money than me and he could pay for more things and we could go out more. But, like, the other day, like, he needed a check to put into our joint account so he could, like, pay the electric bill or the cable bill or something. And he needed to, like, (pause) you know, and I had to pay rent, and so I could only give him 100 dollars because the ACH lawyer from my trust account didn't go through or didn't come. So, I'm like, I feel guilty that I'm taking all this money out of my trust when, like, I should be saving it for, like, a down payment or something. [00:25:25]
THERAPIST: Worried about the money though, that the two of you have, both how it's impacted, like, kind of right now, how much fun you can have and doing something really about your future, huh?
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: Perhaps (ph) it's been frustrating to have him continuing looking for jobs.
CLIENT: I mean, not that I don't want him to have a good job—I just want it to happen faster. [00:26:31]
(silence)
THERAPIST: What's [going on] (ph)?
CLIENT: Well he told me that, like, if he was going to get a job he'd want to work at a place like a bookstore or something, you know, just because we have to see about money for the wedding and in terms of (pause) his savings. And so, we were talking about this bookstore—well, we were talking about the bookstore and we were talking about another bookstore, a used books store and there's one here. And there's one (pause) on that street, and there's a really nice one on this street. [00:27:55]
And so, I'm just imagining walking down the street with him and him looking for a place to work and he, like, trying to find something to draw up money, to [draw up] (ph) something for myself. I just imagined, like, a business card that said, like, my name and then, like, some of the things I do like photography, childcare, something (ph) like that. I've been thinking about putting an ad on Craigslist that says, like, "Babysitter who works in south and lives in the area is available starting at 6:00 pm," something like that.
THERAPIST: For an extra month?
CLIENT: Just for extra money, you know.
THERAPIST: Yeah. How does that make you feel?
CLIENT: Well, like, you know...
THERAPIST: You're looking for work, he's looking for work, yeah. [00:28:59]
CLIENT: You know, we've talked about how I like my downtime and I like time to myself and stuff like that, but (pause)—so I think that would be hard. And like, I don't mind babysitting a couple nights a week but, like, (pause), I don't know. It just feels like...
(silence)
I guess I always thought that people that went to college just graduated college and got good jobs and lived a nice lifestyle, like, (inaudible at 30:10) on Friends or something. And like, even though some of them sometimes didn't have jobs or none of them ever seemed to, like, really be struggling, you know. They still had money coming from somewhere, you know. And they lived in Manhattan in, like, really nice apartments or, like, I don't know. I thought that when you graduated college you automatically got paid 60,000 dollars a year. I don't know where I thought that up from.
THERAPIST: Sounds like a nice wish. (laughter)
CLIENT: I don't know where I came up with that idea though.
THERAPIST: Well, I think it was a kind of hope that—I mean, something about that would be a bit—I don't know if easy is the right word, but easier, like it has been. [00:31:18] And when I get the sense from you, it's that it's—I think when you kind of get into your feelings about how hard this is, it can be very kind of grinding to you. It can hard on you to kind of—it's almost like it's kind of, like, that's a lot to kind of sort out and sort through.
I mean, I guess what I hear in all this is that you're worried, I mean, you know, understandably so, like, how are Phil and you going to get by. And boy it hasn't been easy and it hasn't been easy for a while and (pause) it's been tiring to you. It's been a grind, it hasn't been easy. It hasn't been nearly as easy as you kind of imagined. [00:32:24]
(silence)
CLIENT: Is that the new one?
THERAPIST: Yes.
CLIENT: How much did you get for your old one?
THERAPIST: I don't know, I still have it. I haven't got rid of it. Weren't you the one that told me about...
CLIENT: There's a website called Gazelle or something.
THERAPIST: Gazelle, yeah yeah yeah yeah, I've been hearing it now. I haven't tried to sell it. What were you just thinking about before that? [00:33:27]
CLIENT: Thinking about a crime novel book of short stories that I read about a woman who couldn't stand her husband, so she poisoned him and threw him down the well and put concrete down the well. A little morbid. It's a funny book though. You know that book fair that (pause) was in the common, I guess last weekend or the weekend before? I bought it there. And I like short stores, so. I like reading short stories and I like crime short stories.
THERAPIST: Why'd she kill him?
CLIENT: She just got sick of him, I guess. He only had, like, one joke that he told over and over again, every year of their life, every day or whatever, whenever they were out in public. And then (pause) he would just disappear after, like, if they were in a fight. And, I don't know. [00:34:51] He, like, took all of her stuff out of the garden shed to store the stuff—he was going to build a bunker or a fog shelter or something. He was going to, like, dig the well out and build a fog shelter, so he put all this stuff in there and threw all her, like, mahogany handled garden tools into the compost pile and they were all rotted and, like, I don't know what happened. I forget. But she made him spicy meatloaf, which is, like, his favorite meal and then chucked him out to the well, which was like a dry well. And threw him down the thing. And then he had had all this concrete and she opened up the concrete and put in some compost and put in some concrete, and turned on the hose and buried him there.
THERAPIST: Creative.
CLIENT: It was creative. I would never do that, but she says—and she's like, and it still looks like the bottom of the well. [00:35:58]
THERAPIST: Oh, like it was so deep or something, you couldn't tell.
CLIENT: Because it's so deep or, like, she put the compost in so it was still dark down there or something. (pause) But I guess, like, she just got so fed up. I don't think I would ever be, like, fed up with Phil. Bored maybe, but he doesn't irk me.
THERAPIST: Yeah, what an interesting association though.
CLIENT: Oh yeah, I know, terrible.
THERAPIST: What do you mean?
CLIENT: I don't know. I just feel like sometimes my mind wanders and you ask me what I'm thinking about. I don't think it has to do with anything, but I tell you anyway. [00:37:06] So, I guess I try not to think about the recordings but I still think it's weird.
THERAPIST: Why, what about the recording?
CLIENT: Because somebody's going to think I'm going to bury my husband. (laughter) What? Stop.
THERAPIST: (laughter) Somebody's going to sit there and listen to you going, "Ah." If I see that on the news report, I know where to go. Yeah. Well, I did take case in point of, like, kind of going into what are your feelings and, like, how kind of, you know, frightening they could be sometimes. I don't know, you don't seem frightened—you seem more, like, surprised, I guess, or something. I don't know. Or maybe not even surprised... [00:38:28]
CLIENT: I'm not afraid that I'm going to bury him at the bottom of a dry well. I'm afraid that I'm going to get bored and cheat on him or something.
THERAPIST: That's what I mean, yeah.
CLIENT: What would you do for 100 grand? (inaudible at 39:18) what did you do though, for Halloween?
THERAPIST: So, I didn't give out anything. I live on a third floor condo and my street is packed with kids, like Mardi Gras for kids. And so my neighbor, who lives on the first floor, was just outside with all the other homeowners. Kids were running up and grabbing the candy. It's really something. It's like you can't drive down the street for, like, two or three hours.
CLIENT: I got two trick-or-treaters. They were dressed as local middle school students.
THERAPIST: Local what?
CLIENT: Middle school students (inaudible at 40:06) (laughter) They were, like, eighth graders or something. And then somebody rang my doorbell, like, eight minutes to 8:00 and I refused to answer it. If you rang my doorbell at ten minutes to 8:00, you're probably, like, 17 trick-or-treating.
THERAPIST: Well, just to say, I think this is important stuff that you'd be getting into. I wonder what made you reach for the candy bar right there. Not to be hyper-analytical, but...
CLIENT: Avoidance.
THERAPIST: Yeah, trying to feel like—how you just said something about that. (ringing noise) Well, I guess we should call it day. Oh, just to talk about the move and everything.
CLIENT: The move?
THERAPIST: The move to the different office.
CLIENT: You didn't tell me about that. [00:41:22]
END TRANSCRIPT
