TRANSCRIPT OF AUDIO FILE:
___________________________________________________________________________________
BEGIN TRANSCRIPT:
PATIENT: (inaudible) Velcro openings.
COUNSELOR: Oh, really?
PATIENT: Yeah. But (inaudible) If I do the market outside this winter, then I am assured of having something rather warm. So how are you?
COUNSELOR: Okay.
PATIENT: Great. Excuse me. Well, neither one of us showed up in a Santa Claus suit.
COUNSELOR: (laughs)
PATIENT: I think that's good. I am.... Let's see. I gotta focus in here. I'm up. I'm up. Because I've been away for five days. So that's gonna be nice. You know, it's just like - the feeling of walking out of work and thinking, ah, great, I don't have to be here for five days.
COUNSELOR: So you're off as of now until Monday.
PATIENT: Until Monday. So I think I told you I'm going to visit my family in Missouri for Christmas? Yeah. So I'm feeling pretty good about that. Well, of course I have some reservations about it. I think things will probably, from my point of view, be more tense than from their point of view. Probably like an explanation on that, wouldn't you?
COUNSELOR: Do you feel like offering one? (laughs)
PATIENT: Yeah. I mean, I'm feeling much better. It's like I don't have to go home and feel like, you know, I'm hiding things away. And, you know, that any minute somebody's gonna confront me about being gay. And, you know, if it comes up it comes up, you know, and I'll handle it. And that's fine. It's time it happened.
COUNSELOR: But what's the sense of tension you're anticipating? [0:02:23.6]
PATIENT: Probably with my older brother. Because I've still got a lot of - I want to say bad feelings, but that's probably not the right word. I have sad feelings. And I have a sense of guilt that the business didn't work that he and I tried to start. And I haven't talked that much about it to you, I don't think. And it's now been 4 years - 4 years? - yes - and I've probably spoken to him five, maybe six times in that amount of time. I did see him this spring, so that helped, and we talked a little bit and, you know, I got out that, you know, I was upset about feeling that I had let him down a great deal on the business and I was feeling very, very guilty because we had taken out a business loan to start up the business and not really having money to help contribute towards paying it off.
And what I didn't realize, because he hadn't told me, was that whatever amount of money was left that we had not used - like I had taken a salary for like ten months of the first year, and then we had expenses, we did have someone coming in - and he decided - he started the business like in December and in October he decided it just wasn't going to be profitable and he didn't want to continue with it. And if I wanted to, I could go ahead and, you know, take all the merchandise that was there and, you know, continue. There was still money in the bank in the account, and so what he did was, he's utilized some of that to - he has a lawn care business, that's what his background was in, and he's started that back up and he's doing very, very well. You know, I think at this point he has like three people working for him and he's doing quite well. [0:05:01.3]
So that's helped me feel a little bit better that he was able to utilize that. But I didn't know that. And so I was feeling very, very guilty and ashamed and having a real sense of failing because of that. And, you know, he hadn't made accusations to me. I mean, you know, he was disappointed about both of us not being able to generate the kind of business that, you know, we would have liked. He also saw how difficult it was, because he was traveling around Texas making contacts in stores, and them saying, "Oh, yeah, we really like the product, come back in three months, we'll be deciding that." Then he would go back in three months and then they'd say, "We already spent our money," "Oh, we decided we don't want to do that." And like I was used to that from having been in that kind of business before. It's a business of half-promises. But what he was used to in the lawn spraying business, you go, you present what you have, the person either says yes or no. Or they say, "Let me think about it, call me next week." You sign the contract, that's it. It doesn't work that way with (inaudible at 0:06:35.3), so....
It brought up a lot of things in growing up. And I think two weeks ago, three weeks ago, whenever it was, I told you like he and I had used to fight all the time growing up because he didn't want me to do things and I wouldn't want to do it, and he was the one who was in charge because my father was away. So I still have a lot of - I think what happened with the business then brought up a lot of these things for me and -
COUNSELOR: Brought up in the sense that it felt like that same situation? [0:07:30.4]
PATIENT: It felt like - yeah. Yeah. And -
COUNSELOR: That he was now in charge and you were answering to him.
PATIENT: That he was in charge and that, you know, I wasn't doing what I should have been doing. And then sometimes I wasn't, you know.
COUNSELOR: But it sounds like from what you said before that he may have attributed the lack of it's success to both of you, rather than to you.
PATIENT: Well, I think he did. But emotionally it was difficult for me to see that.
COUNSELOR: It felt like it was all your fault.
PATIENT: Right. That was a little bit of what we talked about this spring. So that's better. But I still feel funny about it, you know. I guess that's my issue, and I shouldn't - but I do, you know - I feel like I disappointed him. And because it's - I mean, it really shocked me when he was the one who proposed the business idea to me. You know, I had not thought about it at all. And we tried to sit down and plan things, and it was really good. It was scary also, you know - scary being with him, and just not being able, I think, to knock some of these past experiences out of my head. And he was very supportive, and he came to Chicago a couple of times when I had shows. And I went to Texas and Miami. And we did try, and we got some good feedback. But then, the way things kinda happen in business, especially in something like that, all of a sudden what we're doing, the fashion trend changes, and I didn't think it was worth the investment to do major changes towards that. [0:09:48.4]
To put it in simple points, I was doing fashionable backpacks and diaper bags. All of a sudden everything changed to dressy and small and constructive, and I didn't believe in it. And, you know, it made some people money, but on the whole it's too much of a fashion statement. And we were producing here. We tried to produce at India, and we got some good quality. We also got screwed a little. And we found out that it wasn't profitable to produce from there. And the competition from the Far East...it's very difficult to compete. And it may be possible to do the business, but not to support two households on it. So that's, I think, in a lot of ways what he was looking at.
COUNSELOR: You mean he was looking at all those factors.
PATIENT: Yeah, yeah.
COUNSELOR: Whereas you were looking at yourself (inaudible at 0:11:00.9).
PATIENT: Yeah, in a lot of ways, I think. He was looking at it on paper, with figures clearly laid out. And I was looking at it that way some also, but feeling more that since in a lot of ways the creative input was from me, and that wasn't working as well as it should be, I was the one who was making the business fail. And once the problems started to come up, then we didn't have the same kind of communication that we'd had as we had planned things. And that was just very tough for me to handle, I mean, January and February of that first year was very difficult for me. And on top of which, that's also when I had to stop therapy and lost my therapist. He gave up his practice for health reasons. And it was winter and grey, which didn't help, I hate that kind of thing. And so I'm trying not to think about that. [0:12:44.3]
COUNSELOR: But it sounds like - I mean, I'm struck by the parallel that we're heading into January and February and I'm going to be away and we won't meet for a couple of weeks. I'm wondering, in some way, if some of those feelings of some anticipation of some hard feelings, and feeling alone, and getting through, and with the end of therapy -
PATIENT: Yeah. No, there's a tiny bit. It did occur to me once or twice this week that, well, I'm coming up on session 20, so there's ten more sessions to go. And then where do I go? And it was.... And it's funny I didn't even think of it at that time. I mean, it was just kind of a nebulous - like where do I go? And as I say that, it occurs to me like, oh, I need to be looking at a support system.
COUNSELOR: What did you feel when you said that? Were you like -
PATIENT: It felt a little empty.
COUNSELOR: Yeah.
PATIENT: Yeah. I'm also somewhat planning to counter January's bleakness by the week that I have off. I'm seeing if I can afford to go to Hawaii. And my mother lives there during the wintertime, so it's free accommodations. It's just a matter of getting down there and hoping for nice sunny weather. And right now, sitting on a beach and doing nothing, or like doing yard work or something like that, I think is what I really need. I need some revitalization, and that sounds like a pretty good plan, because I love the beach, I love the sunshine. I really haven't been in years, because I do the market every week Sunday. So that's how it's gonna be. [0:15:11.6]
COUNSELOR: But you said that you had a sense of emptiness, and I was noticing that it seemed like you'd been thinking about those plans maybe to help counteract some of those feelings. You've been [here in the moment] (ph). Sounds like you got in touch with a sense of emptiness, and have thought of a support system. But my sense is that it's hard to dwell on that. (inaudible).
PATIENT: Yeah. It's being afraid of that emptiness. And -
COUNSELOR: Maybe we could talk about what that emptiness -
PATIENT: Yeah, I'm just - I'm thinking what this turns up. Like last night I had a friend who was in from L.A. and I had dinner with her. And it's nice. You know, we had a good time. And it's realizing that, you know, I have friends. And one of the things that I think is beginning to help me - I mean, most of these - she's from college, I have another friend from college I'll be seeing when I go to Missouri this weekend, and I have a friend in L.A. from college, and the new friend I made this summer from South America. And it's like all of a sudden I can be in touch with them via the Internet. And that's very nice. Because I'm horrible at letter writing - not at letter writing, I'm horrible at getting myself to the post office, you know, I've built that up as a hurdle. But I just thought, well, this is very nice I can have this kind of communication with people. It's also kind of spur-of-the-moment - you want to get in touch with someone, and to be able to do that. Which I think is looking at, like, well, this is good, this is communication for me with someone else. It may be a way of me not isolating myself so much. [0:17:49.0]
Like normally what would happen is, for instance, I would like be having dinner with a friend, around the holiday times I'd either spend Christmas with my cousins here in the city or maybe go visit my family, and so I'd have like, you know, a week, ten days that it's kind of filled with activity. And then I go into my hermit stage. I'm not saying just around this holiday. I tend to have those peaks and valleys where I have a short time period where I'm social and then I go into my hermit stage. And I know it's just not good for me. But what happens is, I get blinders on so much that it's difficult for me to like stop myself, in terms of recognizing that I'm into that downward time period again of isolating myself.
And also it occurred to me in the last week or two that, you know, maybe I should start back going to an  meeting once a week, or every now and then. And there are times that I can find them helpful. Sometimes (inaudible at 0:19:17.3) good things, sometimes they don't. Because I'm also looking, I think, at - even though I don't have information back yet, you know, there's a very good possibility that the fellow that I'm excited about, Dalt, from Pakistan, may not be coming back with me in January or February. And even if he does, and even if he's interested in me, we may not hit it off well. You know, I know him a little, I don't know him really well. And I guess it's begun in a precautionary stage, in a way. All right, beware, you know - maybe that's it. I'm feeling up. I'm not feeling negative about myself. So I'm empowering myself. We [stop wise] (ph) a little bit. [0:20:31.2]
I heard something on the TV this morning - it's so incredibly simple, but makes perfect sense. It was on one of the morning programs, and this guy was on there talking about getting ready for a holiday party. And it was basically geared towards women, but saying, you know, "Probably you're totally strung out," you know, "from getting ready for the holidays, whether you're giving the party or getting ready to go to the party. And just like try to plan one hour for yourself. Set aside, do certain things." And like he was saying the most important thing is just kinda sit yourself down and say, "I'm really happy. I'm either giving this party or going to this party." Because if you're dreading it you're not going to have a good time, you know? And just realize you've gotten through all of this, it's now time for you to enjoy things. And like as he was saying that, it like clicked for me. Oh, I just dread doing things, you know. I suppose that kind of falls into the, you know, what-does-it-matter? routine with me. Or it doesn't matter. And so I think, unconsciously that's been going on with me today. Like, oh, I'm happy to be going to Missouri to visit my relatives and, you know, I can think of having a good time there, you know, I don't have to think bad things are going to happen. You know that it's going to be tense, that -  [0:22:20.8]
COUNSELOR: It sounds like there's some mixed feelings. I mean, you've hinted at some tension or, you know, anticipation of tension, and also to the end of therapy and to a sense of emptiness, but it sounds - my sense was, I don't know, that you're kind of eager to kind of override that, or that in some way that it feels like a flaw to have some anxieties or worries about what's coming up.
PATIENT: Well, now, that would be a negative way of working! No I'm just thinking - of course I feel that I have flaws. But as you were saying that, I thought, well, let's look at the edge here. And I suppose right now I'm feeling like, oh, I'm about a foot in from the edge - you know, as opposed to falling out, and falling into my isolation. It's like, okay, I can kind of see a path to go along here. Now, how long I'm going to stay on that path, I don't know. I don't know.
COUNSELOR: Well, I almost get the feeling today that you'd almost rather I not say too much or I might push you towards the edge.
PATIENT: No. No. No no no no no no no. No. No. I don't think that's there.
COUNSELOR: No?
PATIENT: No. No. I think it's just - it's like one of my moods. I'm letting myself be happy this week, you know? It's Christmas. I'm in a much better position this year than I have been for the last couple years, in that I am doing something - fortunately I didn't have much Christmas shopping to do, so I don't have many expenses. You know, I don't have to worry that after Christmas I'm going to have a lot of extra expenses to pay off. I have my usual bills that are up there. But it's like I just decided, you know, there are certain things I can do and certain things I can't do. And I am spending Christmas with my family, which, you know, in a lot of ways is a very positive thing. And - I don't know - that really, you know, it does seem important that I do that. I mean I don't know what, you know, the eyes tearing up about is. It's -  [0:25:48.3]
COUNSELOR: Were you aware of that?
PATIENT: Oh, yeah. It's a certain - I won't say emotional feeling. No, it's a feeling of both warmth and happiness and sadness, and I think a lot of different things. And like one of the nice things about - I mentioned the Internet - one of the nice things was, I sent an e-mail to Marco in South America. It was just nice to be able to write to him and know that he would understand that - I mentioned it last week, I think, to you - that, you know, this is another holiday where I'm spending it with my family, I don't have a significant other with me - with the exception of my brother, who's getting divorced - they do, and sometimes that really hurts. I mean, that makes me feel even more alone.
COUNSELOR: Is that part of what you're feeling right now? Is that some of the -
PATIENT: Oh, I don't know, maybe. Maybe. But what was nice was, I had somebody I could write about that and know that they would understand me. And I hadn't had that, you know. So I felt good about that. Sad, but good. [0:27:31.6]
COUNSELOR: Can you say more about the feelings that come up there? It sounds like it's sad but good. I mean it seems like you're very filled with them right now.
PATIENT: Well, I would like to have someone special to spend holidays with, you know. I think I've only - I've done it twice. Once it was okay, the other time it was not. One time I spent Christmas with a friend. And - no, I take that back.
COUNSELOR: What's happening to the feeling as you -
PATIENT: I'm being judgmental as to what those holidays were like.
COUNSELOR: I just want to sort of slow us down a little bit, because you started to say - I sensed a real sense of longing, of missing things, this is something you'd like.
PATIENT: Yeah.
COUNSELOR: And it seems like you got criti - you got thinking, and the feelings get lost.
PATIENT: Yeah. Right.
COUNSELOR: Your sense of longing -
PATIENT: When I feel empty.... It's like I know, even though I enjoy being with my family, I'll feel empty, because it's not having somebody special who I feel loves me for who I am. A gay man. Who can share things and can appreciate what I can give to them. And there's an acceptance from my family, and there's an appreciation. But it's up to a point. It's up to the point where I play it safe. And I can go back and I can talk about work, I can talk about winemaking, and nobody wants to hear about my social life. I don't have one currently, so it's easy not to talk about it. But there's a certain part of me that, even though I've avoided it, and I know I'm partially responsible for that, there's a certain part of me that wants to be able to tell them about some of my friends, or what I do. [0:30:53:0]
COUNSELOR: (inaudible)
PATIENT: And - sorry?
COUNSELOR: You can go.
PATIENT: And even the fact that I don't have a social life - to be able to tell them about that.
COUNSELOR: That's what I was going to ask. That you sounded like the man that you wrote, you were able to kind of - you felt like he understood. It was like the sense of longing, or of what you're missing, to be able to share that as well was really meaningful, to have that appreciated. It sounds like there's some expec - anticipation you have of not being able to share as much of yourself as would make you feel really known and loved.
PATIENT: And we can be a very funny but cruel family.
COUNSELOR: Cool?
PATIENT: Cruel.
COUNSELOR: Cruel.
PATIENT: Yeah. I mean, one of the things that I think has kept us all going is, we do have senses of humor about things and we make fun of things and we laugh at things.
COUNSELOR: Just like - just now you just kind of made a joke about having -  [0:32:23.3]
PATIENT: Right. That I make a joke about things, sure, you know. But there are times that that can really hurt, you know. It's funny, my brother had called me, I don't know, a couple of weeks ago, and he was saying, "Okay, what meal do you want to do, what meal do you want to be in on?" And knowing how it can be, and that my tastes are different from theirs, and if I do something half of them aren't going to like it, I just decided, "You know what? Put me on clean-up." You know, I'll be happy doing that. At a later point, I reconsidered and did a suggestion for a meal. But I've also learned not to really set myself up for certain things. So I decided what I'm going to do, and then hope for the best. And, you know, I've also gotten to the point of being stronger. It's like, well, you know, if you don't like it, fine, you don't have to deal with it, you know? This is my choice, this is what I want to do. And -
COUNSELOR: But it also sounds like there's some part or some feel - some wish that what you would offer would.... I mean, preparing a meal - that's a communal offering. And it sounds like you anticipate criticism rather than enjoyment, appreciation....
PATIENT: Oh, yeah. Yeah. They've gotten much better than they used to be, but a lot of times they can be very narrow-minded about things. Actually my two nephews will be getting the food pressure this year. And actually I was a little narrow-minded with my sister. They're both working in restaurants and doing well. And she was saying, "Oh, they would like to fix Christmas meal." She said, "But I don't think it'll be very traditional." And I just kind of told her, I said, "Well, maybe they should do a different meal," you know. It's like for Christmas, you know. From past experience, why set yourself up? You know, why let them set themselves up if it doesn't work? Let them do a less important meal. [0:35:16.7]
COUNSELOR: Oh, I see. Like why take the risk and get stung?
PATIENT: Yeah. Yeah. And, you know, my critical mode goes into being and thinking. It's really horrible that I'm like that, you know.
COUNSELOR: That you're like what?
PATIENT: That I'm insensitive to those kind of things. That it becomes important for me, But -
COUNSELOR: That what's important?
PATIENT: I think what you said probably hit a key. Oftentimes I realize that perhaps financially or something else, I can't add a lot to what's going on with my family. But there are certain things I can do that I can add. And a great deal of that has to do with my ability to be creative. So, you know, it's like one year.... It's difficult for me not to - I think I'm starting to feel shame here and.... Like one year I was in Hawaii, and my mother - I don't remember if I volunteered or if she said, you know, "Can you do something at the table?" I think I probably volunteered. And, you know, all I did was go out, and she has bushes around the house - which I find very funny in Hawaii, that she has bushes - and she had some other things -
COUNSELOR: It seems kind of incongruous for Hawaii?
PATIENT: Yeah. Yeah yeah yeah. And all I did was, I went out and, you know, cut off some of the branches and stuff and spray-painted everything gold, just flat, and did some candles. And it was like - but it was not big, but it just like kind of filled the table nicely, instead of, you know, two little candlesticks and traditional place settings or something. And it looked good, and I got excited about doing it. But, you know, to my brothers it was, "What are you doin'?," you know. [0:37:59.4]
COUNSELOR: Like with a sneer?
PATIENT: "What are you gonna (inaudible) that for?" Yeah. Yeah. And, as I say, they kind of have gotten better about that. But it still hurts, you know. And -
COUNSELOR: Well, you were really - it was an expression of yourself. And it sounds like that questioning of it must have been rather deflating, something that you were offering being dismissed.
PATIENT: Well, yes. And also in terms of.... At that point it was still being uncomfortable with being gay in a lot of ways, and that what that creativity would be pointing towards me. You know, as opposed to watching a football game, I was out making table decorations.
COUNSELOR: And so what's the feeling you're having as you're recalling this?
PATIENT: It's still feeling that I don't fit in, I think, in a lot of ways. And to like then take that over when I go home, and I don't have someone with me now to - again, I feel like I don't fit in. I know I'm a part of the family, but it feels like I don't fit in.
COUNSELOR: You said that you started to feel ashamed as you started to tell me the story. [0:39:45.0]
PATIENT: Well, I think I was kind of like clueing in to the feelings that I was having, you know, when it was being made fun of. Because, I mean, growing up, you know, I'd always try to do things, and would be made fun of for them. To make something, or to want to do something, or -
COUNSELOR: So your enthusiasm and your desires were (inaudible).
PATIENT: I couldn't - you know, like we talked before, it's difficult for me to get excited about things.
COUNSELOR: Yeah. And what was it like telling me?
PATIENT: A little scary, I think. And, you know, I was doing heavy self-criticism - and, I suppose, editing that. A real mix of things. Like, why do I have to feel this way? Why did I feel this way in the past? Why do I have to feel ashamed about telling you this? Why can't I stand up to them and say I did this because I'm good at it, I like doing it, I get bored watching football?
COUNSELOR: So a lot of [in your] (ph) monologue in - you can (inaudible at 0:41:30.7) criticism that you can't stand up to them. I mean, I was aware of your seeming to brim with the excitements - like I was aware of sort of the excitement for a moment as you began to tell me about it, and I felt like we were meeting there for a moment. And then like my sense was that you kind of retreated and kind of.... I feel withdrawn from, I think. Even my comments about it, I felt like -
PATIENT: Yeah. I think because what was happening with me mentally was, I getting the picture of how I did it. I knew what I wanted to do, I knew what would work, I knew what would look good. But I felt it was necessary to sneak out beside the house to paint the stuff, to get it together, to try and get in and get it set up without it being noticed, so that I could do it. [0:42:50.0]
COUNSELOR: Was there -
PATIENT: And so as I thought of that, you know, I closed down on you because I think what was going on was, I was feeling the shame that I'm not able to stand up for myself in a lot of ways.
COUNSELOR: Was there sometimes that I -
PATIENT: .And then also a certain part of me felt, this is insignificant to tell you this. So I'm pulling back from it. And (inaudible at 0:43:24.3). It's difficult to talk about something that hurts.
COUNSELOR: Yeah. I was wondering as I commented on it if you had any sense of how that felt.
PATIENT: I think it's difficult for me to hear you when that's going on. It's like as I was coming over here today - this just occurs to me - I'm doing the same thing in many ways. I found at the - oh, yeah! (laughs) - we have at the market on Sunday what I have called "the CIA nuns." We have these nuns, and it's like, you know, people bring them things, et cetera, and I've made the joke like, you know, they're not really nuns, you know, they're CIA agents. You know, like taking it back to - I don't know - the movie Charade or something, where there's the scene in the flea market in Paris and those people that you think are something aren't something. So my joke is that they're the CIA nuns. [0:44:48.1]
Well, the CIA nuns had an incredible teddy bear this weekend, brand new. And a great price. I mean, like a 40-, 50-dollar teddy bear for eight dollars. So I have an infant niece and I hadn't gotten her anything, and I thought, oh, this would be perfect. And so as I'm coming over here I passed a vendor on the street who had, you know, inexpensive chiffon scarves, and I thought, wouldn't it be really great to get one of these scarves and like put it around the bear's neck, you know? Just to make it a little different, you know. And I thought, no, my family will make fun of me for doing that. And then I thought, you know, the bear needs something. So then I thought, oh, I've got those terrycloth scarves that I haven't done well with that I made. I think you've seen them. And I thought, oh, that could be kind of good. That's kind of safe to do, it looks kind of good, the kid can play with it, you know, it can get washed, no big deal, and plus it'll kind of give it a little bit of a wintry feeling. But, you know, as I was doing that and walking all along and thinking, this is a great idea, at the same time I'm thinking, you know, they're all just going to howl that it's, you know, it's another one of my crazy ideas. And yet it's a good idea.
COUNSELOR: Did you imagine that I might think your story - any of these, like the story of the table decoration - was kind of crazy?
PATIENT: I thought that you might find it a little insignificant.
COUNSELOR: Because you just now said it was hard for you to hear and -
PATIENT: Well, in the sense that I think I have so many emotions that are coming up. So because of that, it's kind of difficult to hear.
COUNSELOR: Yeah. Well, that makes sense. I know I felt kind of almost rebuffed because I actually felt very interested and had a reaction, and my sense was that my telling you my reaction was unwelcome in some way. And it sounds like it's because of some feelings going on inside of you.
PATIENT: No - well, in that sense. But I didn't hear your reaction. I didn't hear you telling me your reaction.
COUNSELOR: Why didn't you -
PATIENT: I was still feeling hurt and embarrassment. [0:47:51.2]
COUNSELOR: Well, what I recall saying is what an expression of yourself, and my sense that it must have felt like a, you know, deflation or injury, which I can appreciate. But did you hear that? Or you - when you say you never - you didn't hear it?
PATIENT: In retrospect now, yes, I did...
COUNSELOR: Okay, that's -
PATIENT: ...but at the time it didn't register.
COUNSELOR: Yeah.
PATIENT: And I know that I'm aware of that, that's it's very - if I'm feeling emotional about something or hurt about something, you know, I just can't hear it. Sometimes I've learned to say, "I'm sorry I didn't hear that. Could you repeat that?" But it used to get me into trouble, because I can't hear. My emotions go up, and it doesn't register. I hear it but it doesn't register.
COUNSELOR: Maybe because the expectation is for it to be critical and so you block it out somehow? It sounds like there's a big protective -
PATIENT: Yeah, it could well be. You know, it's like being yelled at by my father and just wanting to block that out.
COUNSELOR: So then it's hard to hear anything different. Because I was aware in that moment you were saying how you wish you could even share some of your regret or sadness about not having somebody in your life or whatever. You know, something with your family - you know, to share with them some of your longings. And it seemed like, you know, that it's hard to imagine that I or anyone would really want to share or, you know, to join you in a place of really strong feeling about something. [0:50:20.0]
PATIENT: Yeah, it's like even my sister, my older sister, that I've come out to - and, you know, she took the news fairly well, she wasn't surprised by it, and for like a year or two afterwards we'd talk a little bit about it, and then.... She doesn't ask me anything any more. And also, she can have a real edge to her at times, and she can be a little bit vicious about things. And that's disappointing. The reason I told her was because I thought she would understand. And once I'd told my mother, I've spoken with her, I think, one other time about it. And neither she nor I have ever brought it up again.
COUNSELOR: So this very central thing about you simply...
PATIENT: Oh, yeah. Yeah.
COUNSELOR: ...that means the most to you is, well, seen, but not seen, somehow.
PATIENT: Mm-hmm.
COUNSELOR: Ignored. Let me ask you something. Let me first know how you're feeling.
PATIENT: I'm going into critical mode that thinking....
COUNSELOR: How come?
PATIENT: Well, you know, this is my fault because I don't bring it up. I don't. I haven't told them, I don't force the issue. [0:52:29.2]
COUNSELOR: Perhaps easier to blame yourself than to be angry or upset.
PATIENT: Much safer. Yeah, it's much safer. If they -
COUNSELOR: (inaudible)
PATIENT: If they can't understand when I do a table arrangement, how the hell are they going to understand that I go to bed with a man, you know?
COUNSELOR: But it sounds like -
PATIENT: (inaudible) totally foreign to them.
COUNSELOR: But when you say safer - like it's not safe to feel upset or angry about their lack of understanding or interest or....
PATIENT: Not with them, no. It doesn't feel that way.
COUNSELOR: It seems like even in here, you begin attacking yourself. What's the good of letting yourself be angry or upset with them right now?
PATIENT: You know, the feeling that I must be wrong and they're right, you know? They have full, successful lives. I don't, in a lot of ways. That what I feel is not important enough to bring up. It's like, you know, also in the back of my mind is, well, this is one more holiday or special event that I have decided, well, I wont spoil everybody's time by bringing up the fact that I'm gay.
COUNSELOR: You imagine that would spoil everyone's time.
PATIENT: Mm-hmm. So, you know, I'm telling myself therefore my feelings and my wants don't really matter. [0:55:01.8]
COUNSELOR: You're telling yourself that. Is that how it feels?
PATIENT: Mm-hmm.
COUNSELOR: It feels like they don't matter?
PATIENT: Mmp-mm. Mmp-mm.
COUNSELOR: Does it feel like they don't matter to me either?
PATIENT: No. Again, I think it's a matter of, I don't let myself hear what you're really saying. And it could be the same with them, I'm not really letting myself hear what they're saying to me. Although what they say is much more obtuse than what you are saying.
COUNSELOR: I think that sounds like another attack on yourself.
PATIENT: Yeah, it's a critical comment. But also there's some fact in there as well. Yeah. I mean, it's not - it's not a slapdown critical comment. It's kind of accurate.
COUNSELOR: Well, I sense that there's a lot of feeling here in your saying they don't matter and that they don't count. What happens to all your feelings for them as you say that?
PATIENT: Well, I was feeling very sad as I said that. And like pressed down. Oppressed. You know, as I said that, it's like, you know, I started to sink into myself, and then, I suppose, feel kinda trapped. [0:57:27.3]
COUNSELOR: It seems like all the feelings of disappointment and anger and sadness in relation to what you can't get from your family somehow gets turned in on yourself and you feel pressed down and you feel pressed down and oppressed.
(long pause)
COUNSELOR: And it sounds like it may feel (inaudible) some of the other feelings.
PATIENT: You know, I mean, I'm used to it. And I know that, you know, this weekend I'll probably reach that point, and my defense will be probably either to deciding to take a nap or go off and try to read. I'm also planning for it, in that I'm planning Saturday afternoon to spend time with my friend from college. And...and I don't know. It.... [0:59:49.6]
COUNSELOR: Well, let me just offer some.... We have to end, but as a possible - exercise isn't exactly the right word - but what I might encourage you to, to maybe try to be mindful of some of the feelings that come up that may not feel safe, or like you want to express them to your family, but may be useful for you to stay in touch with. Sounds like that - you said you were aware that you might want to - you might sleep, you might read, that you can anticipate in certain ways maybe shutting down, or somehow protecting yourself - which is, you know, maybe what you'll need to know. But at the same time, I think it might be useful to give yourself permission just to yourself to note kind of your feelings that are there. Because it sounds like you've become critical of them, even for having them. And note when you're critical, too - I mean, note all of it. It's sort of a - I'd like you to kind of, rather than shutting down to yourself, try to see if you can be just kind of mindful - and the feelings can come and go - but just to note what's there, as a way of staying in relation to - you know, staying in contact with yourself.
Sounds like in some way you feel disconnected, not in full connection with your family. Maybe there's a way that you can stay at least in touch with different parts of yourself. Like, you know, we were talking about these dialogues things. I think like it'd be helpful just not to shut down into yourself - stay in contact, keep a connection within yourself, especially when you're not feeling as connected as you might like to with your family, or with whoever you're with. And you can let me know next time, you know, what that was like, if it was - if you found it even at all comfortable to do. [1:02:49.4]
PATIENT: No, it sounds helpful. Sometimes I'm able to do it a little bit, and just kind of realize, all right, this is what I'm feeling (inaudible), you know, I don't really like this. And sometimes I'll just kind of step aside or just say, you know, it doesn't interest me, or whatever. You're not here next week, right?
COUNSELOR: Right.
PATIENT: So I'll be seeing you in January.
COUNSELOR: Yep. I think it's the 3rd.
PATIENT: Right. And then I am away, I hope...
COUNSELOR: Okay.
PATIENT: ...the following week.
COUNSELOR: ...the following - okay. We'll confirm that, then, on the 3rd. You can - it sounds like we'll then miss (inaudible) Okay. So you're off tomorrow.
PATIENT: Yes.
COUNSELOR: (inaudible) [1:03:56.2]
END TRANSCRIPT
