TRANSCRIPT OF AUDIO FILE:
______________________________________________________________________________
<b>BEGIN TRANSCRIPT:</b>
THERAPIST: Hi, come on in. You know, feel free to have a seat in one of the chairs, if that works for you.
CLIENT: Alright. That's fine. This one ...
THERAPIST: (overlapping voices) We usually have – is that good?
CLIENT: No, that's perfect.
THERAPIST: Yeah, it's a new office.
CLIENT: Yeah, I like it. It's nice.
THERAPIST: Thank you.
CLIENT: A lot more room.
THERAPIST: Yeah, it is a lot more room.
CLIENT: So, that's good. I'm familiar with this area because my school's right up the street.
THERAPIST: Oh, really?
CLIENT: Yeah. At Boston College.
THERAPIST: Oh, I didn't know that's where you went.
CLIENT: Yeah, that's where ...
THERAPIST: It's really right up the street.
CLIENT: Yeah, it's like I'm up by here all the time, so I know the area.
THERAPIST: (overlapping voices) Oh, wow. So you know the area here really well.
CLIENT: Yep, yep. So, (inaudible at 0:00:47). Got my test tomorrow.
THERAPIST: Wow, it's tomorrow. [00:00:53]
CLIENT: Yeah. I feel pretty confident. I've actually done a lot of studying and done a lot of preparation since the last time we met, so – I mean last time was 10 days and I think I have studied for about 8 of them. So I really buckled down and got myself fairly to where I want to be.
It's like I said: I can only do the best that I can. And I'm trying to put out all the pressures of everything else just distracting me and the importance of the test. And if I don't know stuff, I'm not getting mad at myself. I'm just like alright. I've come to the understanding where my weaknesses were and I've tried to focus on them as much as I can. But I do know that you can't change overnight, which is – it's difficult but it's what I need to do to get everything done. So I'm trying my best. I've been getting good nights' sleeps and just focusing a lot on what I need to do, so I'm feeling – I'm pretty confident in my abilities now. [00:02:06]
I was actually talking with one of my supervisors at my internship and he was just like, "Some it took me a while to pass it, too." And I was talking about people they say it takes a while but they just say, "Eventually, you'll pass it. So, just keep doing what you're doing." And he said the best thing to do is just to prepare. Because I've taken it twice with no preparation and missed it by 10 points and then I took it once when I prepared and I missed it by 4, so ...
THERAPIST: So that – you've taken it already.
CLIENT: I've taken it. I've taken this section three previous times. This will be my fourth. So, (3 second pause) we'll see. Like I said, I'm optimistic; I'm fairly confident in my abilities. And I'm just going in there with an open mind. I'm not going to rush; I'm not going to do everything. I've just – I've set in my ways to figure out, really, how the test needs to be approached, as to what I've been approaching it before. So, I'm fairly confident in that. [00:03:06]
It's just something I do every day. It's difficult for me, just because I know the mistakes that I'm making. Those are the mistakes I've been making since I was a kid. And it's all in just my grammatic (ph) mistakes and that's it. I can write well, I can do well. I've done the practice tests and I've reread the really horrible responses that they call weak. And I'm just like, "I don't write like that." And then I read very strong ones that they give the top score on and I'm like, "Well, I can see where that comes from but I'm right around a two or a three."

So, (sighs) (3 second pause) it builds my confidence actually doing them and seeing where you actually are, to what you know and what to focus more on. I think it really helps me out a little bit, so (3 second pause) – excuse me. So I'm pretty focused on that. [00:04:09]
The test thing, however, has been difficult. The studying has been difficult, just because it's just been tough trying to find places in my parents' house, trying to study when it's quiet and just to find people that just leave you alone. Because there's so many people living at my parents' house where it's just – I find myself getting agitated where – when I go hide and study and everyone is looking for me, it's like, "Just leave me alone. I'm doing something. You know what I'm doing. Why do you need this done right now?"
And it's just – I found myself getting very frustrated, just the whole time when I wanted to be by myself, needed time for myself. And it's just people just constantly looking for you and agitating you, watching TV and turning stuff up and arguing. I'm just like, "Leave me alone," you know? [00:05:02]
And then I go to the library and I just – I feel the library was the best place for me to study. But it wasn't open all the time when I was working at school. I only have like an hour to get there, because they close at 4:30, 5:00. So, I felt those days were kind of rough.
And it's tough for me to study in the morning, just because – I don't know. I just – I don't – I feel my brain doesn't function that well in the morning. It's just really tough, so ...
THERAPIST: What are the – what are people in your house bothering you about?
CLIENT: They're just looking at – for me, asking me stupid questions like: "It's time for this. Do you want to go do this? What are you doing?" "Who cares what I'm doing? I'm studying." "Well, what are you studying for?" "You know what I'm studying for."
It's just constantly – it was just hard finding concentration, just because every – it seemed like every room I went to, someone wanted to be in that room. It's just – it was just very agitating. [00:06:07]
THERAPIST: So all your siblings are living at home now. Is that ...?
CLIENT: Except my sister. She moved back to Bristol.
THERAPIST: Oh, she did.
CLIENT: Yeah, she moved back to Bristol. I actually saw her on Tuesday, so I was – had a workshop for school in Bristol. And that was a good time, just catching up with her. But my two brothers are home, my parents. And it's just agitating, just because they're constantly looking for you and just – I guess that's part – goes part to my independence. I'm a grown man; leave me alone.
But then again, I'm still living under their house. So they feel like they have to be involved in my business and it's just – from living with my girlfriend for six months, I was just like – I kind of miss the privacy that I had where she'd be at work, I'd be at home. I could do my studies and get my work done and focus when I needed to focus. It's just here, I feel like there's no place to focus. [00:07:10]
And usually, before I'd just get agitated and scream and argue. Now, I just – I was like, "Alright. Well, I'll just go to the library then." Even if it was late at night, I was just like, "OK, well, I'll go do that." Or I'd go sit in my car and read my book, just because it was quiet.
THERAPIST: Where did you live before you moved in with your girlfriend?
CLIENT: I lived at home. But I didn't understand the freedom and the quietness and all that, because I wasn't really used to it; I wasn't exposed to it until I moved in.
THERAPIST: Was that the first time that you lived on your own? You lived in dorms, didn't you, where ...?
CLIENT: Yeah, I lived in dorms in college, so I mean I guess it was kind of the same, well, as my house, just because there were still people around me and I wasn't really by myself, per se. But I did have my room where I could go and shut my door and kind of seclude myself from my roommates, just so I could study. So I guess – yeah, I guess you could say that in a way but ... [00:08:12]
THERAPIST: And then you moved back home after?
CLIENT: I moved back home after college, yeah. And then I've been – just been at home. And then moving in with my girlfriend was the first time I moved back out since college. So I really didn't know what it was like to live on my own, away from all the chaos. I mean (clears throat) – excuse me. Isn't that college, though? If I knew I had work to do, I knew at nighttime I really couldn't study in my room.
I'd go to the library because the library at school was open later than the public libraries. Because the public libraries are very restrictive on time, which is kind of frustrating to me because they're only open late one night a week. To me, I'd almost rather have them open 1:00 to 9:00 or 10:00 as opposed to open 9:00 in the morning to 5:00 at night. So in that way, it's kind of frustrating but it is what it is, you know? [00:09:13]
But yeah, I'd never – I will always find comfort in the library when I needed to study for exams. And I felt at college, I had that liberty because not many people went to the library. I was one of the few that went. And it was just good because I'd just go down into the basement, in one of those little cubicles, and I'd just be there for hours. And I'd focus and get the stuff done that I needed to get done.
Where even now, it was difficult moving back home doing this. When around the summertime, when I had to write my thesis paper, here my girlfriend would be at work and I'd have all this alone, quiet time to myself to just sit down and get the work done. I guess I kind of miss that a little bit. I miss being able to just lock myself in place and just focus, because that's – it's kind of like how I operate. [00:10:14]
I need – at times, I need people around, I need to socialize and I need to interact with people. But at other times, I feel I need that quiet time, I need to be alone, I need to just focus. I look back on it. I'm like that whole time, if I was living at home, I don't know if I'd ever get my thesis done, just because there was just so much going on that I feel I couldn't have concentrated, I couldn't have focused.
But then again, I work nights; I could have went – I could have had the library during the day to go and focus and get my work done. But sometimes, I just didn't have the motivation to get up and go to the library. I'd rather just sit at my house, in my comfortable clothes, and just sit at my laptop and work. [00:11:10]
So, (3 second pause) it is difficult but it's something I've got to adjust. And I guess after being at home and studying for this test at home, I kind of do miss what my girlfriend's – what we had together and what it was like, so ...
THERAPIST: Was it hard for you to move out?
CLIENT: At the time, I was all confused. I think I was so – my stress level was so high. My anxiety was so high that I just – I was confused; I didn't know what I was doing. I thought I needed to be home with my parents. I thought I needed a break from her. I thought I just needed to clear my head. [00:12:01]

Originally, it was only going to be for a couple days. But then the more and more time went on, it just – it ended up I just made the move. It was abrupt; I moved – I told her I needed days – a couple days on Saturday. And on Sunday, I went back and got all my clothes and moved out. I think it was just – I don't know. I think it was part of anxiety, part of stress, part of frustration because living in Amherst, all my schoolwork and my internship and my coaching and all that was back closer to home. And I thought I wanted that comfort of being closer to home, you know? Just that comfort would help me out.

And it did for a little bit but now I'm kind of over the home bit. I'm kind of ready to move on, just because it's getting back into the old habits of – I can't be my own individual person anymore. People are always weighing in on what I do, where I am, helping me with decisions when I kind of just want to make my own or make big decisions with my girlfriend. [00:13:22]
THERAPIST: Have you thought about getting your own place?
CLIENT: Have I thought about it?
THERAPIST: Mm-hmm.
CLIENT: I have but I can't afford it. (snickers) (3 second pause) I don't – I'm struggling right now to make ends meet. I get all these bills adding up and I only get unemployment coming in and that's going to run out in February. So (snickers) I have to reapply for that and then hopefully the restaurant opens the second or third week in March. And I'm going to have to do my schoolwork, as well as working the restaurant again. [00:13:58]

But as much as I don't want to work – go back to work for the restaurant because working with family is stressful – again, it only (snickers) – the options of working there outweigh – the positive options outweigh the negative because they are very flexible with me, which is fantastic.
It does – the hours that I can work there are better for me, because I can pick and choose my hours. Usually, I work nights, which is fine. But weekends bother my girlfriend, which is tough because that's – pretty much where we started going downhill was she works Monday through Friday, 8:00 in the morning to 7:00 at night. But my day usually doesn't start until noontime or 3:00 in the afternoon. And I don't get home until 10:00, 11:00 at night. [00:14:52]
And that's where the difficulties get in. And she doesn't work on weekends and I'd be gone working all day Saturday, all day Sunday. So that's where it gets to kind of – it was frustrating for her a little bit. And then again, me being in school all summer really bothered her, too, because she'd go to work 7:00 in the morning and come home at 7:00 but I won't get home until like 10:00 or 11:00 because of school. It's not like I wasn't working; I'd be in work by 9:30, 10:00, come home at 3:30, 4:00, shower and then go back to school all night.
So, it really took a toll on our relationship. I think the frustration really just built up and built up and built up. And it just – it crashed. It crashed. And I kind of felt bad for her because it's not the first time I've done this to her; it's not the first time I've made rash decisions. And I look back on them, I'm just like – well, I make these decisions now, like I said before, and then I deal with the consequences later. [00:16:06]
And now before I jump into stuff, I talk with her. I try to talk to myself and do what's best for me now, as opposed to just doing these decisions and dealing with the consequences. And I feel since we've started our sessions, I felt that me processing information has been a lot easier for me and I haven't been as emotional in my decision-making as I was before.
So, I do credit just talking and trying to work things out. And me and my girlfriend's relationship is – it's stronger than ever. There's still some animosity towards her company but (3 second pause) what can I do about it? [00:17:01]
THERAPIST: What do you think is making it stronger or how is it stronger?
CLIENT: The fact that we don't see each other all the time helps. That it's exciting. It's like she said: she gets excited to hear from me and see me. And I kind of feel the same way, whereas before it was just like I was irritated with everything going on. And then just talking to her just – I don't know. It irritated me; it bothered me. Because I know she was trying to help but I didn't want her help, because I guess I was still angry at the fact that she was still working for her company that screwed me over and (3 second pause) I guess it was just a difficult time.
And it's just like I said. She goes, "I know what you went through. I know how you must feel." And I go, "Do you?" We've spent heated battles. "If you know about it, how can you still be loyal to that company (2 second pause) after you know what they did to me?" [00:18:07]
THERAPIST: Do you – so you want her to quit?
CLIENT: Before, I did. Before, I really did; I wanted her to quit and move on and do her own thing, because I know it wasn't going to get any better. But (3 second pause) now I'm just going to live with it. I'm like, "You do whatever you've got to do."
But she is very stressed out, she's very irritated. And we've had conversations where (2 second pause) her job – there's no place to move up anymore. And she keeps talking about looking for new jobs and I'm just like, "OK." And then – "Oh, I'm too busy. I can't do it." (2 second pause) "It's kind of frustrating, because you talk about how bad your situation is, you talk about how much you want to go and leave from it but yet you don't do anything about it." [00:19:04]
THERAPIST: Sounds familiar.
CLIENT: Mm-hmm. Mm-hmm. Sounds very familiar. And it's just – it's comfort, you know? And I guess that's what it is. She's making a comfortable salary, she's working comfortable hours but again, I think she's like me: she's fearful of change. That was her first job out of college. She doesn't know anything else.

But me, I've been out of college the same amount of time and (chuckles) I've worked in a restaurant, I've worked in computer softwares, I've worked in insurance. Now, I'm working in education. I've moved around.
Her brother? He did the same thing. He was a software tech for three years and now he's moved into engineering. But he's moved company to company; he's been with companies – been with like six different companies six, seven years. [00:20:00]
It's just – we see all that and we see her staying there. And I try to explain to her that nowadays, people don't stay with one company for 30 years. It's just not possible. Companies don't want it, people don't want it. It's frustrating.
THERAPIST: Well, I think also what I'm suggesting is the frustration you feel at her is also frustration you feel of yourself for not getting out of something that's comfortable and moving on.
CLIENT: No, yeah. No, I agree with that. And that's kind of what I was – I understood that and that I do feel that way, too. Because it's like I put in all this work, I complain so much. It's like me about my family's restaurant. I do what she does. I hate working there. I feel my family takes advantage of me because I'm family. [00:20:55]
They're stressed out, they hate their employees. What do they do? They turn around and they lash out at me. They lash out at me. And before, I used to lash out but now I don't. But then again, I still think my family has a lot of anger towards me that we really haven't discussed. Because when I was heavy into my substances, I was not only using at the restaurant and during work hours but I was also selling out of the restaurant, because it was a prime area for me to not get caught. Because so many people were coming in and out. They know that I know a lot of people. They had no idea what was going on.
THERAPIST: So they subsequently found out? Your family?
CLIENT: They found out because on my way to work, I OD'd; I was in the hospital.
THERAPIST: I remember you telling me that but I didn't know you were on your way to work. (Client sighs) So how did from that they find out that you were selling in the restaurant? [00:21:59]
CLIENT: Because the guy that I – that used to work there with me, he's the one that introduced me to all my contacts. And they asked me where I got it from. Because the cops came and they asked me where I got it from. And no charges were filed, because I didn't have any on me, but they asked where I got it from and (3 second pause) that's that.
And even to this day, it's really tough to talk about my, oh, my OD because I get – my heart races and I still get very anxious about it. And I think about the horror that went on that day. That was just very traumatic to me. And it just – I guess I just try to forget about it.
THERAPIST: What, in particular, makes you anxious? [00:22:54]
CLIENT: The fact that (sighs) (9 second pause) before I went to work, I snorted a huge line. And I used to do it but never like this. And my nose started bleeding and I just (snickers) – I have horrible pictures of movies: people happening and that's the end of their lives. And that's what I thought. (sighs) (sniffles) (13 second pause) And it was just (11 second pause) – it was just – it was a very traumatizing, realistic day that I know I had a problem.
THERAPIST: So when your nose started bleeding, you thought this is really going to be trouble? [00:24:04]
CLIENT: Mm-hmm. I didn't think I was going to make it. (3 second pause) And I called my uncle and said, "I'm going to the hospital, because I took something." And he thought I was joking. (sighs)
THERAPIST: What happened after that?
CLIENT: I just remember lying in the hospital bed with my eyes in the back of my head and just my family coming in and crying. (3 second pause) And just the disappointment that I felt towards them (sighs) and how my life just (3 second pause) got out of control, to the point where I was going to let drugs take over my life and just end it there. (sniffles) (7 second pause) And that was very hard. (3 second pause) That was very hard. [00:25:08]
My mother telling me that my uncle was yelling at her, telling her that they didn't know what I was doing. That I was doing drugs at their house and selling drugs out of my parents' house. But (2 second pause) I look back on it and I did it out of everywhere. I did it under my uncle's nose, under my aunt's nose at the restaurant, under my parents' nose (sighs), under my siblings' nose, everywhere. I did it right in front of them and nobody (snaps fingers) saw it. Nobody had any idea (3 second pause) because I was just very secretive (snaps fingers) about that. [00:25:55]
And (5 second pause) it's just difficult because I know my secret was out now. And I guess I look at all – I watch these shows, like people crying out for help and I guess that was my way of crying out.
THERAPIST: You wanted someone to notice?
CLIENT: Mm-hmm. (2 second pause) Because my friends that knew me, that I did it with, said I was getting out of control and I was in denial. I was a typical drug addict. "I'm fine, I know what I can do. I'm safe with it." (2 second pause) A young kid. Nothing's going to stop me. (2 second pause)
And then (4 second pause) I'm in a hospital ER room (2 second pause) almost dead. (9 second pause) And then (2 second pause) that's when I started my rehab. (2 second pause) And like I said, I've just (2 second pause) – I met with Julianne for two, maybe three years and when she left, I thought I was ready to make the next step and (2 second pause) here I am again, struggling. And then I turned to drugs again. [00:27:27]
THERAPIST: Again, meaning you feel like you're back in the same place?
CLIENT: I felt like that until I called Julianne and got referred to you. And then I feel like when I talk to somebody that's not as emotionally attached to me – that's not just looking out for my best interests and hides the facts, hides the truth – it helps me. (2 second pause) Because (3 second pause) – I don't know. I just (sighs) (6 second pause) – I don't know. I mean since we've been talking, my marijuana use has just cut down by like 95 percent. [00:28:12]
THERAPIST: I was thinking about today, because I remember you used – that was one of the first things you brought up when we met, that you were concerned that you were using coke again but that you were using other things.
CLIENT: Marijuana use is (2 second pause) – I do it recreationally but that's it. Not every day. I don't purchase anymore. I just (4 second pause) get my life – I feel like my life's slowly turning back around again in the right direction. It was just – it was a mess.
And like I said before about my best friend who's a cop, I won't talk about this with him: about my drug use, about any of that stuff. I'm sure he knows but (2 second pause) that's just something I'm not comfortable with him talking about, even though he is a straight shooter. He is – knows what it – (2 second pause) marijuana is. He knows all that stuff because he is a police officer. [00:29:22]
THERAPIST: (sneezes) (overlapping voices) Excuse me.
CLIENT: (overlapping voices) Bless you.
THERAPIST: Thank you.
CLIENT: But (Therapist sneezes) – bless you.
THERAPIST: Thank you.
CLIENT: But I'm just – I'm not comfortable talking with him about that (3 second pause), you know? And I do talk to him about a lot of stuff. My drug addiction is just one thing. (2 second pause) I just don't think I've mentioned to him about my past with my drug use.
THERAPIST: (inaudible at 0:29:46).
CLIENT: It's alright.
THERAPIST: (sneezes) Excuse me. I'm just getting over a little cold. Sorry.
CLIENT: (overlapping voices) That's alright. So – yeah.
THERAPIST: When you OD'd, was this around the time that you were graduating college or ...? [00:29:58]
CLIENT: Yes. It was the summer I graduated college. I graduated in May of '05. And what's funny was I was all high during my graduation (snickers). I was up all night partying and before I went to my ceremony, I blew like three lines (snickers). And my parents were like, "Oh, let's go to your dorm room and get your stuff." And I had to run to my dorm room to beat them there so I could hide my drugs (sighs) (3 second pause). So, I went out of my way to do that stuff.
But then even to this day, when I come home at night, talk about – I don't know what it is. When I talk about cocaine, I get very anxious and then my heart starts to race and I get that feeling that I felt when I OD'd. And it's not a settling feeling. I have to forget it. I try to distract myself from thinking about it. [00:31:09]
And it's really hard because I know I'm hiding things but ...
THERAPIST: What do you think you're hiding?
CLIENT: I don't know. (3 second pause) I don't know. I don't know. I think I do cherish every day that I have because I know my time could have been over then. But I do worry about my health because after that – they said I did no structure damage to myself. But ever since then, I'm a hypochondriac. I think I'm having a heart attack all the time and if I get a little ache and pain, I think it's my heart seizing up and all that stuff. I'm just very concerned about my heart and I don't know why. [00:32:06]
THERAPIST: I'm going to grab (inaudible at 0:32:08).
CLIENT: Alright.
THERAPIST: I'm sorry. I just forgot to (inaudible at 0:32:11).
CLIENT: (overlapping voices) That's alright.
THERAPIST: (blows nose) What I was – excuse me.
CLIENT: That's alright.
THERAPIST: What I was thinking about is that it seems like around that time, moving back home and then – it seems like there's something about the transition, either back home or away from home, that's especially stressful, like you're moving back home. Or I'm not even sure moving back home or just moving out of college and then with your girlfriend having – being out of the house, being anxious and then moving back to your home. It seems like those are the two times that you were most worried about your drug use.
CLIENT: Yeah. I guess you could say that. When I was with Julianne, though, (3 second pause) we talked about it and it was mostly the environment that I always put myself in, which was a cause for my drug use. [00:33:03]
Because in college, because I was with a lot of my good friends, we all did drugs. I was – my nickname in college was "The Godfather," because I had all the drugs. I had prescription pills, I had the cocaine, I had all the good stuff that people wanted. I never bothered with the marijuana, because my roommate did that. But all the other stuff I used to do, I used to sell.

And I look back on it and I'm not proud of it but back then, it was all I knew. Because – I don't know – it was just – it was something that – I had pain, I had surgery, I did some prescription pills. I was in pain; I needed – I wanted – Tylenol wasn't working. Got introduced to Percocet and some Vicodins. [00:34:06]
From there, the guy asked me – because I was like, "Oh, I could do it because I'm at school. I can" – and then the next thing you know, it was just – I was head over heels in cocaine, prescription drugs. I had every prescription drug there was out there. And people would call me and come to my room at all hours of the morning, just looking for that fix.
And in a way, I kind of liked that but in a way, I got annoyed by it. It was like a typical drug addict. I sold, I did prescription pills. I wasn't making any money because I was doing more than I was selling. So then I started doing cocaine and I was selling the prescription pills to pay for the cocaine addiction and it was just a vicious, vicious cycle. (3 second pause) Excuse me. [00:35:12]
It was like a movie. You couldn't write a script, this stuff that I was doing. It was just – it was very painful. It was very painful when I look back on it, (3 second pause) because that's – and I think it was part of the way – part of me growing up in my household was I found that as a way of coping with all my problems. Was I never felt – I mean I felt loved, I felt all that.
But right when I went to college, two years before my mother's mother died – and I think I don't think I ever got over that, in a way, because we were very close. And I think that still lingered with me: the grieving process. I never really fully got over it. And it was tough. It was tough for me, because (2 second pause) – and I can only imagine how tough it was on my little brother, because she died on his birthday. [00:36:23]

So I just – I think part of me feels bad for my little brother, too, in a way. Because on his birthday, my dad's mother yelled at my mother and called her every name in the book and I witnessed that. And then for me to be witness again on my little brother's birthday my grandmother dying was just really difficult. I don't know. I guess it's just – it's a part of my brain that's just (5 second pause) – I kept it away for so long that I just – I don't know if I can keep it in there anymore. [00:37:09]
And I think that's part of what makes me do the things I do – is because I still have a lot of grieving, I still have a lot of anger, I still have a lot of emotions that I need to express. But I can't express them to family, I can't express them – I can to some friends but most friends – the true friends will want to hear your problems but I don't want to burden them with my problems.
And then there's my girlfriend, who's there for me – who I can trust, who wants to support me and I want to support her – but I don't want to put my problems on her when she has her own problems. And to me, it's just been difficult being able to express these emotions. And I think because of that, I act out in the ways I do, because I just (5 second pause) – I don't know. It just – it's my way of calling for help, I guess. I have no idea. [00:38:27]
THERAPIST: It makes you really sad thinking about this.
CLIENT: Mm-hmm. Mm-hmm. (3 second pause) Because it's just – I don't know. It was just one of the most – the more difficult times. And I guess I get this from my dad but he doesn't show his emotions. If he's feeling sad, he tries to keep it in. And it's kind of how I am sometimes, too, until it's just too emotional, where I have to break down or I have to cry. [00:39:05]
And I found myself crying a lot after I OD'd the first time, just listening to music: just music that just made sense to me about all the stuff that I was going through. And just to keep going and to move on.
And it just – I'd hear the words and then I'd just start crying. It's just (3 second pause) – it was just emotionally tough for me, because I'm – in a way, I was growing up to not show your emotion, to be emotionally calm and no matter what – you do it behind closed doors, it's fine but what you do out in front of people is you put on a happy face and you go from there. [00:39:57]
But to me, that's difficult because I don't like – I don't want to hide the truth. I don't like to keep the truth from people but I don't know how to express my feelings in a way that's not going to be (5 second pause) even – I don't know. I guess I just don't know to express my feelings. (4 second pause)
Because I know if I do it to my – everybody else, they're going to tell me what I want to hear. I'm not going to get the straight shooter like my friend or yourself. And I guess that's what prevents me from expressing myself emotionally. (5 second pause) Because I think that's what I've been looking for is just a straight answer, is someone to just tell me what's going on, what (snickers) I'm doing is messed up and that you can talk to me about it. [00:41:04]
THERAPIST: Someone who holds you accountable?
CLIENT: Mm-hmm. (3 second pause) Yeah. I never felt I had any accountability for my actions. (snickers) (4 second pause) I mean I OD'd and my dad was very upset that he found out that I was doing all this stuff out of his house. He was more upset with that than the fact that I almost killed myself. He was more upset with that. And my uncle was more upset with the fact that (4 second pause) – excuse me.
This is the anxiety coming in. I'm sorry.
THERAPIST: You're feeling anxious right now talking about it?
CLIENT: Mm-hmm. Mm-hmm. I feel like my chest just – it squeezes and I get the palpitations. And I guess when I think like that, I try to go off-topic but (2 second pause) – I don't know. (2 second pause) I just (sighs) (4 second pause) – it just – it is what – this is what happens and it's – I haven't found a way to fully deal with it yet. (3 second pause) It's tough. (sniffles) (4 second pause) [00:42:20]
But getting back to when I – and I OD'd. My dad being mad at me, my uncle being mad at my parents for not knowing. But nobody was mad at me. They were all blaming other people for my addictions but it was my addiction; it wasn't theirs. It wasn't my parents', it wasn't my aunt's, it wasn't my uncle's; it was mine. I was the one who put myself in (sighs) (7 second pause) – I was the one who put myself in this situation. And I needed support getting out of it but I needed to get out of it. (2 second pause) And ... [00:43:13]
THERAPIST: Did you feel like you were lost in the crossfire?
CLIENT: Mm-hmm. I felt like I went for a cry for help and it – I got the help I needed because then I got – I met Julianne. And then (2 second pause) I went to my rehab and that was it. That was all like a payment to fix it. I started changing my life. (exhales deeply) (8 second pause)
The hardest part I ever had to do was my roommates and my best friends from college. I had to avoid them. Because at that stage in my recovery, it was the hardest part to avoid them. Because in rehab and talking with Julianne, the best place for me to be was away from drugs, away from the people that were putting me in that environment where the drugs would be. [00:44:22]
And that was the hardest part because I loved my friends. I still do. And only recently I opened up to one of my roommates about why I was associating, because I was in a rehab program. And as part of my rehab, I had to do it.
THERAPIST: You know, (inaudible at 0:44:45), this is obviously such an emotional topic and I'm realizing that we're out of time.
CLIENT: (overlapping voices) No. Yeah.
THERAPIST: But I'm glad we're talking about this.
CLIENT: Yeah. Oh, I need to do it but like I said, when I talk about that situation, I just (sighs) (3 second pause) – the anxiety kicks in. And I know it's the anxiety but I really truly – it's when it first happened, I ... [00:45:11]
THERAPIST: Scary.
CLIENT: I was rushed to the hospital and all that stuff (inaudible at 0:45:15) because I thought I was having a heart attack. And it was nothing, no matter what they told me. Like everything checked out. It was – that I was fine. I had multiple EKGs and they said everything's fine and I just – up here, it won't register. So ...
THERAPIST: We're going to need to stop. Now, is this – I think I had let you know in terms of ...
CLIENT: Yeah, that's fine. I'm ...
THERAPIST: Does this work? I want to make sure it's convenient for you.
CLIENT: (overlapping voices) Yeah, yeah, I'm cool with this. This works.
THERAPIST: OK.
CLIENT: The only thing is times. Do you have different times? I prefer a morning, if you have it.
THERAPIST: I may ...
CLIENT: If it has to be Friday morning, that works, too.
THERAPIST: I was going to say – actually, one time that I'll have available – I think even starting next week – is I'll have a 10:00 available. I'm pretty sure it's 10:00. I have to double-check. [00:46:03]
CLIENT: On Thursdays?
THERAPIST: On Friday. On Friday.
CLIENT: On Friday? Yeah, that could – that would work.
THERAPIST: Is that a possibility? I'm sorry about – the only – my cell phone's ringing.
CLIENT: (overlapping voices) OK. No, I ...
THERAPIST: The week of the 13th, I'm away but I leave the Friday before. So I'm going to be away both those Fridays.
CLIENT: The 13th of February?
THERAPIST: The 13th of February. I'm away that week, so I'm away that Friday.
CLIENT: (overlapping voices) OK.
THERAPIST: But I'm leaving the Friday before, so I'm going to be away for two Fridays.
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: But I'll be there the whole other week, so could we do – I need to check my schedule.
CLIENT: (overlapping voices) OK.
THERAPIST: Can you do this time next week and then we'll take a look at the schedule?
CLIENT: (overlapping voices) Yes, yes. Yeah. Yeah, that's fine.
THERAPIST: OK.
CLIENT: I e-mailed you that I can be flexible.
THERAPIST: OK. Very good.
CLIENT: Alright.
THERAPIST: OK. So I will see you next week then.
CLIENT: Alright. Thank you. Same time.
THERAPIST: Take care.
CLIENT: Thanks.
THERAPIST: You got it.
<b>END TRANSCRIPT</b>
