TRANSCRIPT OF AUDIO FILE:
______________________________________________________________________________
BEGIN TRANSCRIPT:
CLIENT: So, (pause), (sigh), (pause), (sniff), (pause), so I was thinking about our conversation quite a bit over the last few days and, (sniff), (pause), I don't know. A couple of things, I think came to mind. [00:01:33]
First of all, it was pretty frustrating that the whole responsibility riff, really, generally, historically, and in this case in particular, has gotten my goat. (Sniff), (pause), and, (pause), I was trying to just sort of get a handle on why it's so upsetting. (Sniff).
(Pause), (sniff), (pause), I mean it's not something that I have any real reluctance to talk about, and I have in the past, I guess, recent past, (pause),—I'm not sure in the final analysis. Something about it really pissed me off. [00:02:40]
(Pause), so I'm ambivalent. On the one hand that kind of judgment or judgmental, (pause), conceptual framework is not one that I'm adversed (ph), maybe to my own detriment. But (pause), I was annoyed by it.
THERAPIST: Yeah.
CLIENT: (Pause), and I also felt like you were kind of tacking in our, (pause), you were trying out a new tack and you were not owning up to it. It was kind of a—
THERAPIST: Oh. [00:03:35]
CLIENT: That's the way it seemed to me, so I'm not quite sure what to make of that. And as I said as we were, (pause), going over coming to a close on Friday, (pause), some of that sense is probably external to you.
I mean some of it is apparently me. I'm not quite sure what to make of that, make of the fact that, that I was apparently anticipating something, even before we'd begun talking. I had this sense on the one hand and on the other hand, some of it had nothing to do with you, and I don't quite know what to make of that. That's odd to me.
And yet, my evaluation is my evaluation. At the end of the day it has to have some integrity to it, so I don't know. I haven't gotten any further than that. Those are my thoughts. [00:04:45]
(Pause), (sigh), (pause).
THERAPIST: And what else comes to mind?
CLIENT: (Pause), those thoughts aren't enough apparently. (Pause).
THERAPIST: What do you mean?
CLIENT: What's that?
THERAPIST: What do you mean?
CLIENT: I guess something else could come to mind if I tried. But (pause), (sigh), (pause), what else comes to your mind? (Sigh), I mean you say, you said that you felt that I'd been more confrontational. Or I can't remember exactly how you put it. That wasn't it. [00:05:50]
But (pause), I don't know what to tell you. I don't know what else comes to mind. (Sigh),
(pause), (sniff), (pause), I mean, all right, so here's a thought. 
THERAPIST: Yeah. I appreciate it, yeah.
CLIENT: (Pause), I mean they're kind of basically two—if we just sort of take the process of not getting work done.
THERAPIST: Okay.
CLIENT: Which is the nominal reason why I've come to you.
THERAPIST: Sure.
CLIENT: There are kind of two ways of looking at it. One is that there are all of these alternative, time wasting activities that, (pause), have their own kind of valence that are preventing it.
And the other is that those time wasting activities are sort of a proxy or an excuse or what have you, for some, I don't know, (pause), psychodynamic phenomenon, so some psychodynamic, some wish, some sort of product of an obstructed will. You know what I'm saying? [00:07:26]
In other words—
THERAPIST: Do you mean like things you're doing instead of getting your work done?
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: Putting the activities in the wrong right (ph) or where they're more about just not getting your work done?
CLIENT: Exactly, so that was more simply put, all right? So (pause), I don't know what the—I mean I don't know that one has to choose between them necessarily except that, (pause), the—if there's a kind of graph. If you're graphing sort of responsibility versus, (pause), what's the other axis sound like—responsibility versus compulsiveness, compulsion—
THERAPIST: You mean like the two models are along the lines of, (pause), you kind of willfully, if not unconsciously, not do your, being oppositional about doing your work?
CLIENT: Yeah. [00:08:26]
THERAPIST: That'd be one possibility.
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: And the other kind of possibility would be the kind of anxious, compulsive way you're focused on the other things.
CLIENT: Exactly, exactly, exactly. And they're not—when I say—the metaphor of the graph, I think is a reasonable one, or the kind of conceptual model of a graph is a good one, because at different moments, proportion—
THERAPIST: Right [inaudible at 00:08:52]
CLIENT: The kind of proportions could be different. The curve could look different, but (pause), all right, I guess that's it. I guess that's what's really—has been kind of maddening about the usual party line with respect to these things, which is that there's no, (pause), that it's all about being oppositional, that it's almost sort of a developmental, a failure of development. 
And I don't think that's accurate and I don't think it's helpful. Because the response is basically, at the end of the day, it feels like just kind of get over it. Well, if I could get over it, then I would have done so a long time ago, but it's been a pain in the ass. 
Anyway, so I think that's kind of the size of it. Whether the curve slopes up toward the x-axis or down toward the y-axis, I don't know or vice versa. [00:10:05]
THERAPIST: (Pause), I guess part of what you're frustrated with me about then is, (pause), an impression that I, (pause), don't acknowledge, or don't want to kind of give credence to, (pause), part of your difficulties with work and in general, other things, (pause), being a result of kind of an anxious, compulsive thing (ph).
CLIENT: No I don't think that, I don't, I don't. The responsibility mantra is charged for me and I don't—I feel, ironically I guess, resistant to it, (pause). I feel like it's a way of blaming me.
THERAPIST: I see. [00:11:07]
CLIENT: Now, that's probably not the best way of setting things up, in the sense that, (pause), well each of them has a trap imbedded in it. Each axis has a trap imbedded in it. On the one hand, (pause), there's no responsibility and then what are you going to do? You need a completely instrumental solution.
THERAPIST: Right.
CLIENT: On the other hand if, (pause), you except full, complete, kind of totalizing responsibility then it's pretty potentially kind of devastating if you can't move, so you're kind of stuck, which frankly, I think is kind of where I have been for quite a while. So neither, (pause), neither a horizontal like or a vertical line is necessarily the best model, (sniff). (Pause), at least the most constructive model of whatever the issue may be. [00:12:17]
(Pause), (sigh), (pause).
THERAPIST: Well what do you, (pause), envision on the anxious compulsive, (pause), dimension? What, (pause),—
CLIENT: What you're talking about I think. What do you mean, what do I envision? (Pause), (sigh), (pause), (sniff), (pause), (sniff).
THERAPIST: So (pause), I'm not going to—I'm not saying what I'm going to say in a second to make a case. I'm just trying to, (pause), highlight something that's different about those two axes. [00:14:01]
The model seems a little more flushed out, I think, around that oppositional stuff, in that it goes something like somebody, (pause), abandons friends to abandon, belittle, devalues you and you sort of dig your heels in and don't want to work.
On that anxious component side, I'm not sure as much as what the story is about, what you're worried about, and how that—and maybe we talked about it. I'm just not remembering, but again I'm not trying to argue them [for the first time] (ph). I'm just saying I don't have as complete a, (pause), model, I guess you could say, or a sense for that one. Do you?
CLIENT: Yeah. Oh, you mean a model of causation? I think that the—[00:15:06]
THERAPIST: Yeah.
CLIENT: Causation is the same. I mean, (pause)—
THERAPIST: Okay, so you mean—
CLIENT: It's the same thing. It's the same phenomenon.
THERAPIST: Right.
CLIENT: They're not, I mean that's why I describe it as a curve, really. It's not—
THERAPIST: I deal (ph), it's not that different events causes you to feel different ways exactly.
CLIENT: No.
THERAPIST: It's that—
CLIENT: No, no.
THERAPIST: Abandonment, the threat of abandonment, being devalued, and the threat of being devalued, evoke some combination of—
CLIENT: I mean not so much the being devalued as an absolute, more just sort of being, (pause), rendered helpless, (pause), being rendered without agency. I mean maybe it amounts to the same thing. It's just who's the actor in any given situation? But yeah, no, it's exactly the same. The—[00:16:05]
THERAPIST: So in the one case you're sort of paralyzed with fear and unable to work constructively. In the other case, you're—
CLIENT: It's not two cases. I guess that's what I'm trying to say with this kind of [inaudible at 00:16:19]
THERAPIST: I understand it's going on at the same time.
CLIENT: Yeah, yeah.
THERAPIST: And you may feel different sort of proportions of each at a given moment, but these are the two things you're feeling [kind of the same] (ph).
CLIENT: I mean the response is the same. I mean we're trying to—I mean I guess what I'm trying to kind of evoke or find some way of visualizing is, (pause), it's more kind of a constant phenomenon, like what aspect of particleness (ph) is there and what aspect of waveness (ph) is there. 
It's not two different results. It's the same act. The act is not working and these are two different ways of understanding it. I think two different kind of, (pause), conceptual, behavioral, complexes, cognitive behavioral complexes and (pause), it's two ways of understanding the same behaviors, basically. [00:17:34]
(Pause), trying to understand them as a cognition or as a behavior, I mean I think that's really what we're talking about here. One aspect is the kind of cognitive aspect, (pause), and how it leads to not working. And the other aspect is the behavioral aspect and how it leads to not working.
And it's I don't know, I guess when I think about it, and kind of fuse (ph) it out, it's kind of straightforward and just unsurprising. And yet I feel like the cognitive, what I'm calling now the cognitive aspect, the kind of oppositional aspect for which, (pause), I think in the construction that I'm very resistant to I have responsibility for and I have power over, (pause).
Although that's clearly not the case, for better or worse, is the one that's been emphasized just again, and again, and again. It's just been beaten into me and I feel very resistant to it again. [I don't know if the paradox of that applies] (ph). [00:18:50]
I feel very resistant to that analysis about resistance, (pause). It just, it feels unfair, and not constructive. (Pause), anyway, you said you had another thought that you were holding in the bullpen. (Pause), you said you're not going to say this now, you're going to say 
THERAPIST: Oh no, I meant what immediately followed—
CLIENT: I see.
THERAPIST: What I'd already said.
CLIENT: I see.
THERAPIST: I didn't want it to sound like by saying, oh I think we understand this better that that meant I thought that was the right one. I just wanted to—now I'm clear that, (pause), that wasn't really the perspective that you were describing.
CLIENT: No, (pause).
THERAPIST: Which I think I understand better from what you described. [00:19:51]
CLIENT: Yeah, I mean I guess what I'm saying is the behaviors have a center, I don't know, a specific gravity of their own at this point. They have valence and (pause), you know they're compulsive. And they assert themselves sometimes even before there's a specific sense of upset.
And then as I find myself more challenged to move on to the task at hand, the sense of anxiety that they're associated with sort of asserts itself, so in many instances, at least consciously, so far as I'm able to determine consciously, the behavior will actually precede the, (pause), the sense of anxiety of the sort that you describe. [00:21:03]
(Pause), (sigh), (pause), (sigh), (pause), that doesn't mean that, that's sort of my conscious understanding of things, and that doesn't mean that it's unrelated or it just comes out of the blue or whatever, but I think in some degree, in some instances, it probably does.
So once you some specific kinds of, (pause), filler behavioral work alternatives, what have you, that have a kind of ontological status of their own, then what? Right? (Pause). [00:22:19]
THERAPIST: Do you mean like why would you be doing these particular—
CLIENT: I'm not worried about the why I'd be doing these particular things. I think it's probably whatever, but (pause), they can assert themselves. It feels to me as if in some instances, they can assert themselves without, (pause), necessarily being provoked by some specific kind of cognition or some specific kind of, (pause) anxiety.
(Pause), and if that's the case, then—
THERAPIST: Maybe it's sort of brought about—
CLIENT: It has to be dealt with.
THERAPIST: Spontaneously.
CLIENT: I don't know if spontaneously, I'm just (sigh), (pause), again it's a curve with two axes [inaudible at 00:23:19]
THERAPIST: Okay so (pause)—
CLIENT: (Sniffs), (pause), (sigh).
THERAPIST: It seems that the parallel in our interaction here is, (pause). [00:24:30]
CLIENT: (Sniffs)
THERAPIST: That you, (pause), feel sort of, (pause), a combination of, (pause), at moments, our being in a kind of disagreement and (pause), by simply not well understanding, (pause), how these things are and how they work for you.
CLIENT: Well look, I mean what I think what I'm—you asked what came to mind and I'm telling you, what I'm reflecting back at you, or maybe that's not the right way of putting it. What I'm sort of expressing to you is what I feel or think when I hear what it seemed to me you were saying, or you did say overtly on Friday about responsibility.
That kind of conceptual framework triggers something more extended, historically, well established train of thought, and that's what I'm reflecting back at you. [00:25:58]
As to whether I feel like you're not understanding me—I mean I feel like the proposal that I'm avoiding responsibility reflects, as I understand that analysis, reflects a misunderstanding—that it feels to me kind of important to clarify.
I felt—I feel blamed. I feel like it imbeds a kind of concept of blame that is not—on the one hand not fair on some kind of ethical level, but in a more important sense, I don't think that it helps much, just sort of on a more practical level. Now—
THERAPIST: I guess that's what I mean. The blame side has to do with the sense that we're in a kind of almost disagreement and the unhelpful (ph) side has to do with the way it reflects a misunderstanding. [00:27:03]
CLIENT: Yes, so (pause), I believe that sometimes I assume, very consciously, and sometimes, just sort of intuitively,—you sometimes bring these things up in a way that's provocative. Maybe it's completely intuitive. Okay fine. So—
THERAPIST: No, no. I think that's a very important point.
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: (Pause), I, (pause), do not ever—
CLIENT: Okay.
THERAPIST: Consciously intend to be, (pause), provocative. It's possible I'm having other reactions and that—I'm certainly open to that possibility. But no I am, (pause), my conscious intent is always just to try to point something out in a sort of neutral a way as I can to, (pause), say something about what I think is going on. [00:28:16]
CLIENT: Okay. (Pause), then it's not a misunderstanding.
THERAPIST: Yes.
CLIENT: Then my reaction would be to point out an honest misunderstanding. I mean on the other hand there were three things—for some reason I have near total recall of almost our entire conversation—
THERAPIST: Remarkable.
CLIENT: On Friday. It's interesting what—
THERAPIST: Yeah.
CLIENT: It's interesting given what the conversation was, but —
THERAPIST: Well and that what we've been talking about.
CLIENT: What we've been talking about, in particular what we were talking about on Friday.
THERAPIST: Yeah, yeah, right.
CLIENT: So on the one hand, (pause), I do feel this resistance, and I think I was giving voice to it on Friday as well, in maybe a little less worked out form. On the other hand, it is kind of notable that A. I felt this very strong sense of well-being—
THERAPIST: Yeah.
CLIENT: Suddenly during the course of our conversation—
THERAPIST: Yeah.
CLIENT: As soon as I felt that opposition sort of assert itself between us—
THERAPIST: Yes. [00:29:23]
CLIENT: And B. that I apparently walked in, (pause), to this room, kind of feeling, (pause), feeling, in a sense that you were in opposition already, even before we'd said anything.
(Pause), so whatever, I mean that's clearly part of the equation here, but I don't know, maybe both can be true, both that I have an honest objection and that, for whatever reason, I'm feeling oppositional.
THERAPIST: Yep, absolutely.
CLIENT: And they're not exclusive.
THERAPIST: Yeah, I guess that's, (pause),—you see, this is one of those instances where like—I'm just saying I think we're on the same page about that. That's really the point that I'm—[00:30:29]
CLIENT: That's a problem.
THERAPIST: (Laughs).
CLIENT: (Chuckles), [I would say] (ph), you made me feel terrible.
THERAPIST: That's funny. (Pause) 
CLIENT: (Chuckles), all right. (pause), (sigh), I mean I think I've always held out hope. And I could bring in abortive journals, very abortive journals from—
THERAPIST: Yeah. [00:31:21]
CLIENT: The age of eleven onward.
THERAPIST: Yeah.
CLIENT: That give voice to this just sort of wish or hope. I've always just sort of had this fantasy that there would be some instrumental solution to my difficulty organizing myself and essentially to the behaviors that would intervene in what I thought was what I wanted to do—
THERAPIST: Yeah.
CLIENT: Whether it was run every day, or do work, or write, or read, the things that I thought I should be doing.
THERAPIST: Right, that there'd be a kind of a formula.
CLIENT: Well just there would be something, there would be some sort of silver bullet, some magic bullet. On the other hand, I've always felt a very strong, sort of countervailing fantasy that it was really my fault, that if only I just sort of, (pause), willed it into being this would happen of its own accord.
And neither of the really has presented itself, and I guess to the extent that, this dynamic between us reflects a part, I think just a kind of frustration with the same old difficulty of taking a reasonable, compelling conceptual framework for understanding what's going on and implementing some kind of intervention. [00:33:12]
I think that's kind of what it is. It's like, (pause), you've said that the instrumental option is not what we're about. I guess what that means is that unless we come up with something different, the sort of, I don't know, what we would be up to is taking enough responsibility to change my evil ways. (Pause).
THERAPIST: And so —
CLIENT: And that historically, has not felt very useful either.
THERAPIST: (Pause).
CLIENT: I know. We were talking about this on Friday, that's not really the way that you think about it. And I think that's fine. I mean I understand that. I accept it, and I get what the objective is, and I'm not rejecting it. I'm just saying that that's the way that it feels. [00:34:13]
When I hear, (pause), when I hear you talking about taking responsibility or not taking responsibility that's—this is the kind of very well worn path that it tends to send me down.
THERAPIST: In my mind a crucial aspect of all this is that at any particular moment such as this one, we don't really have all the cards in our hand.
CLIENT: You've said that before. I'm not sure that's true. What cards are we missing?
THERAPIST: (Pause), well, (pause)—
CLIENT: What cards are we still missing even after all this time?
THERAPIST: You don't really know. I mean you've said a bunch of times that this, (pause), interpretation of you as being, (pause), responsible and the kind of rider that comes with it, that you should just change your, man up and change your evil ways, or something like that. You don't really know—well I don't like, what that's about or where that comes from. [00:35:30]
CLIENT: You don't?
THERAPIST: (Pause), or what it involves fully, I don't think.
CLIENT: I'm not sure what manner of information you're looking for. (Pause), are you looking for a historical explanation?
THERAPIST: I mean it's—
CLIENT: Or is it—
THERAPIST: Well you say, look, I have this reaction. I fucking hate it when somebody says something like that.
CLIENT: Okay.
THERAPIST: And I'm not entirely sure why.
CLIENT: Why I had this strong reaction?
THERAPIST: Yeah, (pause).
CLIENT: Well we've talked about this. I'm sure we've talked about this.
THERAPIST: Okay, I—
CLIENT: So you want to talk about it again? Okay.
THERAPIST: We can talk about it again if you want. I'm just saying this is—there's a story, there's a narrative there about something that's going on there that—at least I don't feel I have a good grasp of. [00:36:36]
CLIENT: I mean the one way of answering that question is just to kind of catalog historical events as to this dynamic.
THERAPIST: Here's another one. Why is your memory for Friday picture perfect, when your memory of the previous Friday, on last Wednesday—
CLIENT: I don't know, because Obama won the election.
THERAPIST: Completely gone?
CLIENT: I came into the, (pause), today's meeting feeling okay. I don't know. I mean I'm in a—
THERAPIST: But you're mad.
CLIENT: Relatively good mood. No. No. It's not like I'm less annoyed about this.
THERAPIST: Right. I guess that's what I'm—
CLIENT: Oh, you're saying because I'm annoyed.
THERAPIST: No I'm not saying it's because you—I'm just saying I believe that you're in a good mood and that you're happy about Obama, but—
CLIENT: (Chuckles), I feel like I'm in a good mood right now.
THERAPIST: No, I know, and then when you came in you're like, I'm mad.
CLIENT: When I came in I said I'm mad.
THERAPIST: Yeah, but I—yeah pretty much. You're like it's Friday. [00:37:32]
CLIENT: Yeah, that's true, that's true. (Pause), well I mean I guess what I'm trying to say though is that I had some sort of baseline clarity that allowed me think through what I was feeling in a way that is difficult when I'm feeling really distressed. (Pause), that this is my proposition. 
THERAPIST: That you knew what you were pissed off about.
CLIENT: I just kind of identify it. I don't know, it's a good—I'm not rejecting—
THERAPIST: Yeah.
CLIENT: I'm not rejecting the question. I agree that it's interesting.
THERAPIST: Yeah.
CLIENT: I'm not saying no, (chuckles).
THERAPIST: Okay.
CLIENT: I'm not saying no 15 times and—
THERAPIST: Okay.
CLIENT: Whatever. No I am not—
THERAPIST: (Laughs)
CLIENT: (Chuckles), all right, down the rabbit hole, so I mean, I'm not though. I agree it's interesting. [00:38:38]
THERAPIST: Yeah.
CLIENT: I agree it's curious. I agree my selective memory is—it's troublesome. It's strange. It's, (pause)—
THERAPIST: We don't understand it. I don't understand it.
CLIENT: We don't understand. (Pause), okay, (pause).
THERAPIST: I mean in a way those two questions go together. It seems to me that we both have the feeling that there was something about your identifying what was making you angry and feeling, (pause), a conviction, a sense of kind of legitimacy to your frustration that helped you to remember very clearly what went on.
And yet, that then begs the other question of then like, (pause), why? What makes you so angry about that? I mean clearly something does and I know it relates to having a history with it. But that doesn't explain it, at least in my mind. [00:39:51]
CLIENT: What's the difference between the explanation and the comment (ph)?
THERAPIST: Well, you're saying it's always pissed me off when people have made this assertion. I feel like people are beating it into me.
CLIENT: Yeah, (pause).
THERAPIST: I guess, (pause), I guess you could say, (pause), it's just that I've been hit over the head with this so many times—
CLIENT: I mean—
THERAPIST: If somebody hits me again, it hurts.
CLIENT: Yeah, that's partly (ph) fine. I mean and that's my natural inclination is to say exactly that. Why is it so mysterious? I mean what are you looking for beyond that? (Pause), why does there need to be an explanation that's more, (pause), sophisticated than that, (pause)? (Sigh), using sophisticated as a majorative (ph) here.
THERAPIST: Okay. I understand. (Pause), let me think about it for a minute. I think I can give you an answer to that one, but I'm going to have to think about it for a minute. [00:41:14]
(Pause), okay. I could imagine cases in which, (pause), there are a few reasons. (Pause), I mean one example I thought of is like, let's say it's (pause), there's somebody who's gotten shit ever since they were little that they had little control over—something racial, something to do with gender, something to do with the way they looked physically. [00:42:45]
My point is to find something that they never had any control over at all. (Pause), they say, of course I hate it when somebody makes a comment about that. I've been hearing that shit since I was little and it's caused me a lot of grief. And (pause), there's this kind of cumulative effect and it's enraging and very hurtful.
It's not surprising, but there's still more to learn about it. Is it because (pause), the person feels singled out and alienated, because they feel terribly ashamed, because they feel, (pause), they're always different, because I mean—there's a few different things that that can mean so that's one aspect of it.
Another one that kind of complicates what we're talking about is that you partly agree. You don't entirely agree and you certainly think too much made of it. [00:43:50]
CLIENT: Well I wouldn't be—I mean I wouldn't be here given—
THERAPIST: Yeah.
CLIENT: The way that we do business—
THERAPIST: Right.
CLIENT: If I didn't think that in some sense there was, (pause), there was something about change, that was possible in a way—
THERAPIST: Absolutely.
CLIENT: That would not be an option—
THERAPIST: Right.
CLIENT: If I was—
THERAPIST: Completely.
CLIENT: Black.
THERAPIST: Right, right. (Pause), but it, (pause), it complicates. I think it—
CLIENT: Well, (pause), (sigh), what does it complicate? I'm not being argumentative.
THERAPIST: No, no, no. I hear what you're saying.
CLIENT: That's just an honest question.
THERAPIST: Yeah. (Pause), well like with the, let's say racial or gender thing or whatever, there's a sense of like, people were always wrong to say this about me all the way through. This is always an unfair and simply, (pause), mean thing to say, and (pause)—
CLIENT: It's a little more ambiguous.
THERAPIST: Yeah. [00:45:18]
CLIENT: (Pause), in some sense, I believe it.
THERAPIST: I think you believe that to some—you believe it's part of the picture.
CLIENT: It's part of the picture.
THERAPIST: And that there are other factors as well, because I've heard you. I know we have to stop.
CLIENT: Yeah, okay. (Pause), okay?
THERAPIST: Okay.
CLIENT: Yes. (Sigh), all right, see you on Friday.
THERAPIST: I'll see you on Friday.
END TRANSCRIPT
