TRANSCRIPT OF AUDIO FILE:
______________________________________________________________________________
BEGIN TRANSCRIPT:
THERAPIST: It's a little bit of a different dynamic when you have a kid with you.
CLIENT: Yeah, sitting on my lap, yeah. (laughs) But I think it's probably better. I think I can concentrate and focus a little bit more.
THERAPIST: You don't have to split -
CLIENT: Yeah, and I definitely feel much better since the last time I was here.
THERAPIST: It was a hard week.
CLIENT: It was a really hard week and thinking back on it—I think we met on a Monday—and it was such perfect timing cause I think talking with you helped to kind of shift, I was having such a negative—you know—thinking of it as the final time.
And we talked a lot about that and I was glad that we met on Monday. It just got me out of that funk of thinking of it like that.
I was able to kind of shift my perspective a little bit, which was good.
THERAPIST: Oh good.
CLIENT: And I definitely think I had my highs and lows of that week but I felt like I was able to just see it in a lot better perspective, and not see it as such a -
THERAPIST: Not feel so final.
CLIENT: finalizing it. [00:01:00]
THERAPIST: A lot of what was feeling intimidating for you is that this one last feeding, this one last time with him.
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: And to be able to think of it a little bit more fluidly than that.
CLIENT: Right. And I feel like I'm just so lucky that my schedule worked out so I'm going to be home with him on Fridays. Last week was really our first week—
THERAPIST: Your first full week.
CLIENT: and it wasn't really a full week cause it was Labor Day on Monday, so it was nice to kind of ease into it—but by Friday I was just so happy to be home.
THERAPIST: Oh, that's great.
CLIENT: And I'm so glad that I'll have that time to really look forward to, so I think that will—and it's nice that it comes at the end of the week.
THERAPIST: Um hmm.
CLIENT: So I think that will be good. And it was a nice reminder that—okay, now we have a day just like we used to have during the summer, so that Friday last week reminded me that I didn't need to think of it as being so final. That I will have more -
THERAPIST: Lots more Fridays.
CLIENT: Yeah. Yeah. So I'm glad we met on a Monday. That was good. (laughs) Yeah. (pause for .02 seconds) And it's nice now that I finally have those two finals that were left; they're done, and I just feel like that's a huge weight lifted off me. [00:02:10]
THERAPIST: Sure. Yeah.
CLIENT: It was nice. I had one—well, they both were originally due on the first, and I turned in the biggest one, the Action Research Project, on the first. Then the other professor had e-mailed me a few weeks ago cause she was giving me feedback on a piece of it, and she said, "Let me know if you want to push the deadline back."
And when I first got that e-mail I thought to myself, "No, I definitely don't want to push it back." I don't want that hanging over me as I'm getting into the new semester and starting work for my other classes. But then, as I was getting nearer and nearer to the 1st I was realizing that I needed to take her up on it. (laughs)
So I feel like that was kind of a good thing. Todd was trying to persuade me to say, "Yes. I want an extension," at first and I told him no. He was really glad that I did and he reminded me, "That's something you never would have done before."
THERAPIST: Um hmm, yeah. [00:03:02]
CLIENT: Like, "You would've pushed and pushed to make that deadline." And I think it helped that she had offered it; I think if she hadn't I don't know what I would've done, cause it would've been really hard for me to ask for an extension without her prompting it.
But that felt good too, to just realize, you know what—maybe this isn't something that I would've done before and I'm taking her up on it cause I really do need it. She gave me an extra week, which was great. But it did make—just like starting out, last week was the first week of classes and we have reading and everything that we need to do before classes. 
THERAPIST: Yeah.
CLIENT: So last week I felt like it was a scramble; balancing my time, trying to finish that final up and get into the mode of a whole new semester.
THERAPIST: Yeah, and you've been out of that mode for so long.
CLIENT: Yeah. 
THERAPIST: Not so long.
CLIENT: Well it feels like so long (laughs) definitely, definitely feels like a long time. So I feel like last week didn't quite give me a good sense of what it's going to be like in terms of budgeting time and just like figuring out the flow of a week.
THERAPIST: Yeah. It'll probably take a couple of weeks to just get into the —
CLIENT: Yeah, yeah. [00:04:08]
THERAPIST: to figure out what your rhythm will be.
CLIENT: Yeah, and it all does feel really different. Like I am so glad that I'm not really home—before Trae was born, I spent long days at school. Todd and I, we usually leave together in the morning and I try to get to the library around 9 even if I didn't have a class, and stay until 6 or 7 some nights. 
And now my mom or my mother-in-law comes usually around 10 or 11, so I'll be—and this is just based off a week, so we're not really in a routine yet—but usually getting to school around like 11 or 12, and then getting home by 6. So I'm really glad. I don't want to be away from him for longer than that, but I do feel like it's going to take some getting used to, to figure out how I'm going to smoosh everything into that.
THERAPIST: How do you get schoolwork done in six hours? You may not be able to.
CLIENT: Yeah, when I'm really not used to that, especially when I really have a goal of not having to do anything when I get home. So I think that will be hard. And last week it was thrown off cause I was like scrambling like crazy trying to get that final done. [00:05:17]
THERAPIST: Um hmm, yeah.
CLIENT: So I haven't really had a regular week to see what it will be like, but I do feel that like—trying to just figure out how that's all going to work.
THERAPIST: Right.
CLIENT: It is a weird feeling, cause it's not like I want more time—I want less time away from him—but it's just trying to figure out how to -
THERAPIST: Is that enough?
CLIENT: Right, and -
THERAPIST: You might find that you need to be flexible -
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: with as much flexibility as you can have with your childcare, that there may be weeks where you do have to do a longer day. or there maybe weeks where you don't have to.
CLIENT: That can be a shorter day. Yeah. And it's just hard to figure out—and we talked about this last time—like when would I go to the gym? Or when, and something has come up that I just really want to get a haircut. And now I can't figure out—Todd keeps joking with me, thinking that it's funny that I'm having trouble figuring out when to get my hair cut. [00:06:12]
But I feel like it's a good example of trying to find that time, cause I was saying to him that I was going to try to do it on Monday. That's the day when Todd's mom watches Trae and—but I was like, "I feel guilty. I should be—"
THERAPIST: Asking her to come around.
CLIENT: Exactly, or using that time to get work done. Or is that a good use of time? Like when I do have childcare, to be getting my hair cut? When I should be getting work done so I don't have it to do when I want to be spending time with him.
THERAPIST: Um hmm.
CLIENT: But then I was saying to Todd so the other alternative is to do it once he's home to be with Trae, but then that's more time away from Trae. So I was just not quite sure. For things like that, when—what's going to feel right to me.
THERAPIST: Right, and there's no right answer.
CLIENT: Yeah. [00:07:00]
THERAPIST: You know, there's nothing wrong with (pause for .02 seconds) having your mom or mother-in-law come early, there's nothing wrong with doing it on a Saturday morning when Todd's home. None of the choices are right or wrong.
CLIENT: Right.
THERAPIST: It's just when works for you.
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: What feels most comfortable for you.
CLIENT: Yeah. So I think it will just take time to figure out what does feel comfortable cause my only way to deal with that was I just didn't even call to make my appointment on Monday. (laughs)
THERAPIST: And then you're so uncomfortable with your hair -
CLIENT: (laughs) I keep wearing it in a ponytail. Sometime I'll figure it out. So I do feel like figuring that out will be hard, and even yesterday I feel like I over-reacted with Todd because there was one time when I was pumping. Usually I use that time to catch up on e-mail and school stuff or little things, cause it's kind of hard to concentrate and read with pumping and everything. [00:07:56]
And so I said to myself—yesterday there was one time when I was pumping, and on my to-do list was to make up a little list of things that my mom and my mother-in-law could do with Trae; little groups and stuff that we've gone to. So I was like, "You know what, I'm just going to take this time and think about him and make that little list."
So I e-mailed it to Todd to see if I had forgotten anything that we usually do with him. Then last night, totally as a joke, he was saying, "So do you feel like you got a lot of work done at school done, besides making that list for Trae?" and it totally hit me the wrong way, and I felt badly cause I know he was just kidding. 
But I was—that got us into a conversation of, I was like, "I gave myself permission. I felt guilty even doing that but I almost forced myself to let myself relax during that pumping time, and just thing about something fun and not school-related."
And I know he was kidding but I was like, for you to pick up on that, it just hit me the wrong way. I think we were talking about it because I think—for him now, he's been back to work for four and a half months I guess now, and so we were saying like he's had that whole time to figure out his balance.
And now I'm just starting in on that. [00:09:10]
THERAPIST: A new process for you, figuring it out.
CLIENT: Yeah, yeah, and so I felt badly that he was just kidding and then I blew it all up and got frustrated with him. But I do think it's just like different for me because we're now both on different kind of footings in terms of going back into the working world.
THERAPIST: You're making this big transition right now and he's not making a big transition right now. He's done that.
CLIENT: Yeah, and then he felt all bad and he's like, "No, you're right. I totally remember how hard it was for me to go back," and "I shouldn't have done that," and so it was fine. It didn't turn into a big argument or anything.
THERAPIST: And also I think it's because he didn't have the same one-on-one time that you had too -
CLIENT: Yeah, right.
THERAPIST: so, yes—I mean, it's so hard to compare what someone's experience is and who knows, maybe there's a way to compare the feelings?—but your experience is that you had this chunk of time at home where you were the primary caretaker for four months. [00:10:08]
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: That's a big difference to go from doing that to being away for six hours at a time, or more.
CLIENT: Right. Yeah. (pause for .02 seconds) So I think that the more Todd and I can talk about that too we'll figure that out. I think that's one really good thing, is that we're really good about talking about stuff like that. But (laughs) yeah, I think that he's just totally joking with me and I was just, "What?" (laughs) So, and I think that that's the same thing as my haircut—like when is there time to just do the little errands and that kind of stuff.
THERAPIST: Um hmm. Right.
CLIENT: Should it be done during the time that I'm at school or should it be done during a different time? It's just hard to figure out. (pause for .03 seconds) So, but I feel like that's something—I know a lot of my friends, when they first went back to work, have struggled with too. [00:11:06]
So I do know—it's nice to know it's not -
THERAPIST: It's not a crazy worry.
CLIENT: Yeah (laughs) Right, exactly.
THERAPIST: I think it's a very normal, a very normal concern of how do you fit it all in and where you split your time.
CLIENT: Yeah, (pause for .02 seconds) and I do think it's been nice. I haven't had my typical, not-real worries which still feels kind of nice. I do have these worries but they feel more legitimate.
THERAPIST: Feel very on-target.
CLIENT: And I was wondering how I would do with those two finals, turning those in, and I felt like—I think I was just so relieved with the first one, with Action Research, cause that felt like this huge thing to tackle. We just had so much data that we had collected over the year and it felt really daunting to try and do that.
It was a nice feeling cause I feel like—last year in that first year of my program, I would turn something in and instead of that feeling of relief that it was done, I would be spinning -
THERAPIST: Still be (inaudible at 00:12:06) Um hmm.
CLIENT: to worry about.
THERAPIST: So it never really felt done then. [00:12:09]
CLIENT: Exactly. So I was wondering if I was going to have that reaction with this one. That last day that I was working on it, I reviewed all my citations to make sure that I would not get myself all worried (laughs) that I unintentionally plagiarized or something. I think that I was kind of aware of, "Okay. What's going to make me worry after I turn this in? Let me check it now."
So I was like very intentional with my last review of turning it in. I really like—I handed it in that day and it was okay. I was wondering if I was going to have trouble sleeping that night, and it was nice to have that feeling of such a relief that it was in that I really didn't have energy left to worry (laughs) to worry about it at all.
So, that made me feel really good, that that one —
THERAPIST: It would be nice if you could let go without the exhaustion.
CLIENT: Yeah, exactly.
THERAPIST: Next step. [00:13:00]
CLIENT: Yeah (laughs) and I feel like with the next one, the one I just handed in on Saturday: it was a little different one cause I was really scrambling to finish. So it was due on last Saturday, and Friday night I stayed up way too late trying to work on it. I stayed up until maybe 2 am or something, and then went to sleep and just should not have done it that way, looking back on it, cause then I was up having tons of trouble falling asleep.
And it wasn't—it was a different feeling though. It wasn't—I knew I would have enough time to finish it and I wasn't worried about being able to do it or the work. But I think I was on such an adrenaline rush of trying to do it that I could not get back to sleep.
And in that moment I was getting so frustrated with myself cause I felt like, "Tomorrow's the day I have to turn it in. I cannot be a zombie; I need to be alert and ready to finish this thing and turn it in." So that almost made it worse:
THERAPIST: Then that makes it harder to fall asleep. [00:14:02]
CLIENT: Yeah. And then I did—like it was due on the 8th and that next day—and I ended up needing to work on it until the very last second. I turned it in at 11:30 and it was that good feeling of -
THERAPIST: Oh good.
CLIENT: that it was done but I think I still was so wrapped up from -
THERAPIST: Wired.
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: And some of that is physiological, because when you stay up late, your body produces adrenaline to counter-act how tired you are.
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: To keep you alert. And then, just because you're now done, you decide to turn off the computer—doesn't mean that adrenaline just disappears somewhere.
CLIENT: Right.
THERAPIST: It takes some time for your body to balance that out. So some of that revved up, wired feeling is, it's just what's happening hormonally in your body. It's not anything you can talk yourself down from.
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: Just kind of wait for it to run its course.
CLIENT: Um hmm.
THERAPIST: You know, get your mind in the right place when you can.
CLIENT: Yeah, and I think cause then—so then it was two nights of not sleeping well, which got me again -
THERAPIST: Oh no, I hope this isn't going to be a pattern. [00:15:07]
CLIENT: Exactly. And both nights I did get up and read, and I hadn't had to do that in so long, which was also -
THERAPIST: But you haven't had to sit and write a paper in so long.
CLIENT: Right, exactly, yeah. (laughs) So I think that got me a little worried, like now am I in a pattern of not sleeping well? And, of course, Trae is sleeping soundly through the night this whole time (laughs) which was awesome. Two nights in a row he slept until 7 am, and I'm the one awake. (laughs)
But then it was good. And so that was Friday night and Saturday night, and then Sunday night I was able to just—cause I think I'd had enough distance then that I was able to get to sleep. Then Trae was up a lot that night, so it was kind of the opposite. But then last night was okay too, so I feel like (pause for .02 seconds) I was a little worried -
THERAPIST: Like you have a lot more flexibility. You can pull this all-nighter or late night when you find yourself having to, and that doesn't have to mean that it's a forever pattern.
CLIENT: Right. I hope so, right? cause that's I think what I was getting nervous about. I was thinking that, in hindsight, I was frustrated with myself in those two nights, but I think that now looking back on it, it totally makes sense.
THERAPIST: And it was two nights—it wasn't weeks and weeks on end.
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: (pause for .02 seconds) It was these isolated incidents after—in the midst of finishing that paper.
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: Keeping it in your mind—it was two nights. It's not a pattern yet.
CLIENT: Yeah, um hmm. I know, that's just what I needed to think of, but of course I think to the future—like, it's not a pattern but will it be? You know, and that's what I can't let myself do.
THERAPIST: Right. You don't need to predict the future. You need to live each day -
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: during the day, as it is, staying in the moment where you are. [00:16:59]
CLIENT: Um hmm. (pause for .03 seconds) I think that's like just trying to anticipate what this semester will be like—I think all of that is just kind of wound up into one too. Wondering am I going to have enough time to get work done; if I'm worried about getting work done, is that going to cause me to be awake; and things like that.
But I do think it's the very beginning, so I just have to —
THERAPIST: Right. You don't have to anticipate what the whole semester's going to be like.
CLIENT: Right.
THERAPIST: You will find a way to get your work done, I think. That's the overall message; is that you're going to figure it out, whatever it is you need to do to get that done.
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: And the way that you're going to do that is by going through each day, each week, and figuring out what you need at that time.
CLIENT: Um hmm.
THERAPIST: Because I don't think that—that looking ahead to the rest of the semester and trying to predict what it's going to be like is going to be very accurate or very useful.
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: Because you don't really know and you've never done a semester as a mom. 
CLIENT: Right.
THERAPIST: You're going to have to kind of figure out what you need as you go along. [00:18:01]
CLIENT: Right.
THERAPIST: And that's going to be different for you.
CLIENT: Right.
THERAPIST: In the past you've been able to—(pause for .03 seconds) you had all this information about how you did things so that you could make somewhat of a prediction. It wasn't always useful because sometimes it stressed you out more than it was -
CLIENT: (laughs)
THERAPIST: more than it helped, but yet you at least had some basis. But now you have to be more flexible with yourself. 
CLIENT: Yeah, (pause for .02 seconds) and I do think that that's going to be so good for me in the long but it's just like (inaudible at 00:18:28) -
THERAPIST: It's like a life skill. (laughs)
CLIENT: Yeah, it really does feel like that. (laughs) Definitely.
THERAPIST: Yeah I think it is. It's a second (ph) opportunity to put some stuff into practice that you (pause for .02 seconds) could have used before but really didn't need to.
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: Had you given yourself more flexibility and permission in the past would it have felt good?
CLIENT: Um hmm.
THERAPIST: Probably, but you managed to be really successful without it. And now I think you have more pressure to figure out how you really can be flexible.
CLIENT: Yeah. (pause for .03 seconds) Yeah, and good motivation to do it, (laughs) to do it. [00:19:02]
THERAPIST: Yeah, to really get it done. 
CLIENT: Um hmm, (pause for .02 seconds) and I do feel like last year helped to know—just in terms of going home and not having too much to do at night—all of that helped. I think even the weekends feel so different now too because I feel like, and I guess I've just had one weekend since I've been back, but even with Todd once he was back to work, he shared the same thing: that the weekend now felt sacred because he wasn't working and he was able to spend time with both of us. I really felt that.
THERAPIST: Much more sacred.
CLIENT: Yeah, yeah, I felt that and last weekend I was frustrated because Saturday I spent the pretty much entire day trying to finish that final, but it was nice to know that definitely will not be typical.
THERAPIST: Right. You won't have a final every weekend.
CLIENT: Yeah (laughs) thankfully. But it did make me realize now how I really want to keep that, to preserve that time on the weekends too, and anticipating that. [00:20:00]
I also think last year I got much better about not spending both days in the library, but I would have one day that was a work day. Todd usually has work to do on the weekends too, so sometimes we both would have just had one of them be a work day.
So thinking about that now too, we like, "I really don't want to have to do that," but I'm not sure if maybe I will need a little bit of time, just trying to figure it out. But it's also nice to know that—now that he's starting to take more of a regular nap—
THERAPIST: Right, so maybe you can use that naptime as a work-time, when that's really in place. I think he's going to change so much. You know, you saw how much change there was from one month to two months, and two months to four months -
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: and that's going to continue to happen. You know, what he's like at six months is going to be different than what he's like now.
CLIENT: Yeah, it's crazy to see.
THERAPIST: And you're going to readjust, you know.
CLIENT: Um hmm. [00:20:59]
THERAPIST: And you'll readjust during mid-terms and finals. You might not be able to preserve the weekend as much as you can at another point in the semester.
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: (pause for .02 seconds) And maybe one of our jobs could be checking in here and assessing, "Okay. Where are you right now? What do you need right now? What's going to make the most sense for this week for planning?"
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: And that might look very different, you know, three weeks later.
CLIENT: Um hmm. Yeah, that's definitely what we've been realizing with him. Not having a pattern—that's the only pattern (laughs.) That's the only consistency—that there is no consistency. (laughs)
THERAPIST: (laughs) There is no consistency. And that will spread out a little bit.
CLIENT: That's good to know. (laughs)
THERAPIST: The older he gets, the more there will be a routine that works for a little bit of time—(laughs)
CLIENT: (laughs)
THERAPIST: and then you'll figure out a new routine that works for a couple of months.
CLIENT: Yeah. But it is—like just when we think, "Oh. We've totally got this figured out. He definitely likes his morning nap," now he's refusing to take his morning nap. (laughs) It's so funny.
But it is, again I think that is all good for me to be -
THERAPIST: Yeah, it really challenges you. [00:22:02]
CLIENT: Um hmm.
THERAPIST: Because you have found a lot of comfort in sameness and consistency -
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: and this is really forcing you to grow and be able to accept things that are not as predictable.
CLIENT: Right.
THERAPIST: Yeah.
CLIENT: Which is, it's hard to (pause for .02 seconds) not be able to anticipate all that, yeah. And I think that's what gets in my way—because it isn't predictable and I'm predicting what might happen (pause for .02 seconds) that will make me worried.
THERAPIST: Right. You're looking for where there may be a problem.
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: And that creates stress but not necessarily answers.
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: So when you catch yourself doing that—what do you want to do when you catch yourself looking for those problems? What would be useful? What would be helpful?
CLIENT: I think just reminding myself that that's in the future, that I really can't—it's out of my control, so it's a waste of time to be worrying about it. But it's so easy to say that and not—(laughs) [00:23:02]
THERAPIST: So what is in your control? What can you look to that might make you focus on what you can control?
CLIENT: I think just thinking more about the day at hand, and just focusing on that.
THERAPIST: Okay. Just turning your attention back to (pause for .02 seconds) this one day.
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: Maybe just shortening the timeline. You can look ahead a little bit to the rest of the day but not to next week, or —
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: three weeks from now. (pause for .03 seconds) Okay. That sounds like a good plan.
CLIENT: Um hmm.
THERAPIST: So if you catch yourself doing that—that's in the future. What am I looking at today? What's on my plate today?
CLIENT: Um hmm, yeah. (pause for .02 seconds) So I'll try that. (laughs) And I don't feel like it's been so bad lately either that I've been catching myself doing that too much, but, yeah, I think that would be a good reminder to (pause for .02 seconds) focus just on that day. (laughs)
THERAPIST: Sounds good. I know we haven't had a chance to do relaxation in a while. So would you like to save some time for that today? [00:23:58]
CLIENT: Yeah, yeah. That would be great. I was thinking about that cause I was trying that a little bit before I went to bed. Once that last final was turned in—I didn't even really think about it. I think I almost got cocky in a way, like I'd had all these nights of sleeping pretty well. I remembered—I was thinking about last year and just like kind of anticipating the year ahead. I remember thinking to myself, "Oh if I do have trouble sleeping around this time, that's not that weird. It's the start of school." 
I ran into one of my friends on campus this year, at the first day of shopping, and she said, "Oh, I'm exhausted. I was up all night. I couldn't sleep." So that made me feel like, "I did sleep. I can't believe this. -
THERAPIST: (laughs)
CLIENT: (laughs) She's telling me she's having trouble sleeping and I've been fine."
So it's almost like I was feeling okay and I didn't really even think about the fact of working so late.
THERAPIST: Um hmm.
CLIENT: I should have just read for a little bit or something, but it was almost like things were going so well for a while that I almost forgot about it. And then, looking back on it now, I realized that I could have done some strategies to help myself just come down a little bit. [00:25:08]
I knew I was just so wide awake working on that. But then I did try some relaxation that night—or I guess on Sunday night—just trying to be a little bit more aware of (pause for .02 seconds) getting myself to just be ready to go to sleep.
THERAPIST: Finding a way of—getting yourself to come down from being so alert.
CLIENT: Yeah. (pause for .03 seconds) And I surprised myself cause I was thinking that first night when I didn't sleep, "Oh, I'll be so tired the next day," but I was up wired again that next night. (laughs)
THERAPIST: (laughs)
CLIENT: And Todd was like, "How are you still awake? You must be exhausted." He was falling asleep on the couch with me and (pause for .02 seconds) yeah, I just felt like I was definitely -
THERAPIST: Over-tired.
CLIENT: wound up. Trying to get that done.
THERAPIST: (pause for .02 seconds) Well, let's pick a time for next session -
CLIENT: Okay.
THERAPIST: so we don't have to schedule after we get you relaxed, and then we can do a good 15 minutes of relaxation. [00:26:00]
CLIENT: Great.
THERAPIST: (pause from [00:26:01] to [00:26:08) I think your co-pay is 25.
CLIENT: Yeah, okay, good. That's what I thought.
THERAPIST: So if this time works for you, we can stick with it.
CLIENT: This time will work, um, (pause for .02 seconds) but every other week. So starting on the 25th, I'm going to be teaching a little workshop every other Tuesday.
THERAPIST: Okay, so the 25th you teach.
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: So do you want to meet—we could meet again next week and then that gets us on the other week of the workshop.
CLIENT: Yeah, that sounds good. So we'll do the 18th.
THERAPIST: The 18th and then not until the 2nd.
CLIENT: The 2nd, that's great. And then that gets us -
THERAPIST: (pause for .03 seconds) It actually works perfect for me too.
CLIENT: Oh, good.
THERAPIST: The 25th I'm going to have a short day.(pause from [00:27:01] to [00:27:07) then that puts us on the 16th for later in October.
CLIENT: Okay, great.
THERAPIST: So I'll put you in for that time in September, the rest of October, and we can add on.
CLIENT: Okay, that sounds good.
THERAPIST: I'm not too concerned about November filling up just yet.
CLIENT: (laughs)
THERAPIST: (pause from {00:27:29] to [00:27:39) Does that feel like enough frequency, coming in every other week?
CLIENT: Yeah, I think that sounds good, yeah. (pause for .03 seconds) And it's nice to know we can always change things up too.
THERAPIST: Yeah. If we need to move something, we can.
Relaxation exercises from [00:27:56] to [00:35:49]
THERAPIST: How was that?
CLIENT: That was good.
THERAPIST: It was a long time.
CLIENT: Yeah, it was a while. Even when we were doing—with your belly—I was like, "Oh, I haven't been able to do that for a while." (laughs)
THERAPIST: Yeah, I know. (laughs) Got to be a point where there is no sucking in. [00:36:00]
CLIENT: (laughs) Yeah, that feels much better.
THERAPIST: Do you know—were there any spots that were difficult for you?
CLIENT: I think my shoulders. That's always been the spot where I'm like, holding in—and my hands too.
THERAPIST: Okay.
CLIENT: I think I was trying to be more conscious of that, to let my hands relax more.
THERAPIST: Okay. Those are good points to remember and I'll try to keep in mind that those are places where you've found more tension —
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: cause we can pay extra attention to that and that can be something, just during the day, you might notice that you get some relief just by doing the squeeze and release. You don't have to go through the whole thing if you don't have time for it, but if you're holding lots of tension there, purposely make them very tight and then noticing the difference in relaxing —
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: might give you a little bit of relief on a day where you're feeling a little bit tense.
CLIENT: Yeah, and that's easy to do discreetly.
THERAPIST: Absolutely. You can tuck them under your desk.
CLIENT: You can do that anywhere. (laughs)
THERAPIST: And it just gives you a little bit of awareness with your body, or to let go of a little tension that you might be holding onto. [00:37:01]
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: I know I added in maybe trying to come up with a word to attach to these feelings.
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: Sometimes people feel like that's a lot of pressure. Sometimes people like that. What was your reaction?
CLIENT: I immediately just thought of Trae which was nice to be thinking of him, but then when you said a feeling too that you get, I thought of the feeling of holding him too. So it worked for both—the word and the feeling.
THERAPIST: So then that's something we can add in too for you since that seemed to come from you naturally and feel comfortable. There are different ways of getting yourself to this place -
CLIENT: Um hmm.
THERAPIST: and if we can attach a feeling, attach a word, sometimes people attach a sound to the sound of their breath. So the more ways you have in, (ph) the more we can connect to it.
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: Now that we have you without Trae we can put those back into your practice.
CLIENT: I know, yeah. It wasn't so easy to do. (laughs)
THERAPIST: You work with what you can. Did you just need to grab your coat?
CLIENT: Yes. [00:38:08]
END TRANSCRIPT
