Transcript of Audio File:
______________________________________________________________________________
BEGIN TRANSCRIPT:
PATIENT: Well the heat spell's over with.
COUNSELOR: What?
PATIENT: I said the heat spell is over with.
COUNSELOR: Yeah.
PATIENT: You look depressed today (chuckling).
COUNSELOR: No, I think — I don't know, maybe. I just found out about all this computer work I have to do and research to do and [overlapping voices]
PATIENT: Oh.
COUNSELOR: ...it's just kind of you know.
PATIENT: Yeah. When is it due?
COUNSELOR: Oh, it's not due any time. I just really have to get it done by the end of June, so essentially my accountant over here said it runs out.
PATIENT: Oh, yeah (chuckling).
COUNSELOR: And I'm running out (both chuckling) you know.
PATIENT: That's too bad (chuckling).
COUNSELOR: Yeah, it's a real bureaucracy because he wants to write [overlapping voices]
PATIENT: I used to know a fellow who used to, well he used to run something with the computers. I think he was [inside, too] (ph), and Peno was his name.
COUNSELOR: I don't know him.
PATIENT: Steve, Steven Peno.
COUNSELOR: Here or somewhere else?
PATIENT: Yeah, here.
COUNSELOR: Oh.
PATIENT: Of course that's probably a number of years, a number of years ago. I think it was about, yeah, five, four years ago, something like that you know, I know.
COUNSELOR: It's just some kind of analysis that I have to do on my research and I'm not, I have to first figure out, I first need to understand it [overlapping voices] [0:01:06.2]
PATIENT: M-hmm.
COUNSELOR: ...[inaudible]
PATIENT: That's difficult (chuckling), I mean. Well last night (chuckling) I saw Tanya (chuckling).
COUNSELOR: All right.
PATIENT: Yeah and we went, well she had ca-, you know she called me and then I called her back and says, "You know what? I just think you know I mean I'm going to stopover." So I went out there. And then she was bring up the subject that, uh, — I really wanted to see her though you know, so I called her back and so [overlapping voices]
COUNSELOR: You mean that she called you?
PATIENT: Yeah. And then you know like she said she wanted these magazines that I had borrowed back you know, so there wasn't really any great extensive conversation. But, uh, then I called her back and said, you know if she was doing anything after a while. She said, "No." I said, "Feel like going out?" And she says, "Yes." So I went out there. And then she's, you know lives out in no-man's land.
COUNSELOR: Madison? [0:02:01.7]
PATIENT: Yeah (chuckling). So she said, she was talking about you know they're supposed, we're supposed to get up this picnic on Memorial Day. And I says, "Well you know, I don't know. Where do you want to go?" So we, she says, "Well I don't know. Let's go check out some places." We went to check out on (chuckling) some places, you know which was kind of nice, because I did have it on my mind you know, so I was, you know as far as making out with her (chuckling). So I thought, I was really kind of surprised that she had said it. And we did you know, well after we had checked out a few places, we you know parked and made out and I liked it you know, again. You know it was really, it was nice and everything else. But one thing (chuckling) [more she's made] (ph), that while I was making out with her and I thought to myself, you know well should I have an erection, should I really be aroused you know? And then, then I thought, well if you're going to think about it, it's you know you aren't going to get anywhere (chuckling). So it worried me (chuckling). [0:02:52.4]
COUNSELOR: It worried what, that she [overlapping voices]
PATIENT: That, that I you know like I, you know like I, you know a couple of times you know I felt an erection coming on but then I thought about it, the minute I thought about it (snapping fingers) that was it you know, it just you know just [overlapping voices]
COUNSELOR: Why think about it? Why not [overlapping voices]
PATIENT: Yeah, I know, why!
COUNSELOR: ...just let yourself have an erection?
PATIENT: Because — yeah, right. The reason, you know like I was [overlapping voices]
COUNSELOR: It's certainly [overlapping voices]
PATIENT: ...thinking about it [overlapping voices]
COUNSELOR: ... understandable to think you know.
PATIENT: The reason I was thinking about it, you know the reason I was thinking about it, so I thought you know well if I (chuckling) don't get excited, if I don't have an erection, maybe I don't like girls or something you know.
COUNSELOR: Yeah.
PATIENT: That's what you know popped into my mind.
COUNSELOR: Yeah, it's kind of like instead of just being where you are and enjoying that, [overlapping voices]
PATIENT: Yeah, right.
COUNSELOR: ...you're thinking about, oh, what does this mean? Well I'm [overlapping voices]
PATIENT: Yeah.
COUNSELOR: ...not erected. If you're worried about all that stuff you'll be, do you see [overlapping voices]
PATIENT: I know and I know this.
COUNSELOR: Do you see what I mean? It's worrying about it is really being your own worst enemy [overlapping voices]
PATIENT: Yeah, it is (chuckling)!
COUNSELOR: ...because that's what will [overlapping voices]
PATIENT: M-hmm.
COUNSELOR: ...turn her off.
PATIENT: Uh-huh, yeah, I know that. You know and then, and I kept on trying to say, you know forget it, just forget it you know. And, and you know like two or three times you know all of the sudden I started thinking about it and it just seemed it kind of blew the whole (chuckling) thing because I was just worrying about it. And then I thought, oh, Christ you know. So it was really, it was that's the only thing that was bad about it, well it was me because I was worrying about it you know. [0:04:03.4]
COUNSELOR: M-hmm, and the only thing bad was your worries.
PATIENT: Yeah, right (chuckling).
COUNSELOR: If you could've just not worried, boy it really would've been something.
PATIENT: Yeah, right (chuckling), right! But that's, you know it was the only thing that was rotten about the whole thing was me worrying about it. So and I, you know I, and I'd you know I just try and you know, all right don't think about it (chuckling), don't think about it you know. And them me saying "don't think about it", I was thinking about it. I just couldn't just you know forget it and that was it. So that was the only bad thing about the whole thing (chuckling), but.
COUNSELOR: Yeah, and it's kind of like, boy if you just had a wish, you could just put those worries aside and [overlapping voices]
PATIENT: Yeah, right, right. And I thought I was doing so well (chuckling).
COUNSELOR: Well you know it's kind of understandable that it's, you know it's a new thing and [overlapping voices]
PATIENT: Yeah, right.
COUNSELOR: ...so that you do have worries you know, because you know you're coming through what [you read] (ph) has been a big problem for you.
PATIENT: M-hmm, m-hmm.
COUNSELOR: But you know and it's kind of really, it's sometimes hard to shed it all, the vestiges of it. [0:05:05.5]
PATIENT: M-hmm.
COUNSELOR: Do you see what I mean?
PATIENT: M-hmm.
COUNSELOR: You know immediately, and, yeah sure, so it's understandable that you'd have some worries.
PATIENT: M-hmm.
COUNSELOR: But you know I guess you know you, well know yourself that it just doesn't do any good.
PATIENT: Right, and I keep on telling (chuckling) myself this you know that it doesn't do any good.
COUNSELOR: It won't help.
PATIENT: You know just don't (chuckling). Yeah, like you know I really realize that, I really (chuckling) realize that. I've always been more or less a worrier (chuckling).
COUNSELOR: M-hmm, kind of really [overlapping voices]
PATIENT: Yeah.
COUNSELOR: ...worried about little things, about a lot of things.
PATIENT: Yeah, worried about things, yeah, worried about things. But that really kind of you know just, it was disappointing (chuckling) to me.
COUNSELOR: What was disappointing to you [overlapping voices]
PATIENT: That I was worrying, you know that I was so you know upset about it. Well not upset, but you know at least concerned about the whole thing you know.
COUNSELOR: Well you know it sounds like you know when it came up it kind of really turned you off. But that [overlapping voices] [0:06:02.4]
PATIENT: Yeah, and well not [overlapping voices]
COUNSELOR: ...it wasn't like that it was all that way.
PATIENT: No, no, it wasn't, you know it wasn't all that way, but when it, you know when I, I started thinking about it that's when I you know kind of like turned off. But I guess, like you said, it's being answered (ph), you know it's not going to come instantaneously.
COUNSELOR: Yeah, and it's [overlapping voices]
PATIENT: ...and you are going to have worries, you are going to have times that you're going to worry about it.
COUNSELOR: Yeah, and as you feel more at home where you are.
PATIENT: Yeah, that's true.
COUNSELOR: Yeah.
PATIENT: That's true.
COUNSELOR: But I sense that it really kind of bothers you [overlapping voices]
PATIENT: Yeah.
COUNSELOR: ...[and that's bad] (ph) that that's there and.
PATIENT: M-hmm, that I should you know.
COUNSELOR: Kind of important, like you're not, like you thought yourself cheap (ph). My not having an erection means I don't like women.
PATIENT: Yeah, right, yeah.
COUNSELOR: Kind of those kinds of thoughts.
PATIENT: Uh-huh, uh-huh, yeah.
COUNSELOR: And then when you'd, then when what, you'd start to have an erection?
PATIENT: Yeah, and then I'd think (chuckling) about it and then I'd start worrying you know.
COUNSELOR: What would you think about then? Is it [overlapping voices] [0:06:59.6]
PATIENT: I would think about, wow, you know. What would I think? Oh, I am having you know, oh, I am having an erection. Then you know the minute I'd think about it you know then it would you know completely forget it, you know.
COUNSELOR: Right, and just it would, it would disappear.
PATIENT: Yeah, right you know that's it.
COUNSELOR: Kind of like you want to have an erection?
PATIENT: Yeah, right, yeah, that's it.
COUNSELOR: So the sign of an erection gets looked for [overlapping voices]
PATIENT: Yeah, right.
COUNSELOR: ...which makes the erection harder to come by to begin with.
PATIENT: M-hmm, that's right, uh-huh.
COUNSELOR: Then once it starts to come, oh, boy!
PATIENT: Yeah, and then (chuckling) [overlapping voices]
COUNSELOR: Yeah, it's kind of like [overlapping voices]
PATIENT: And it disappears, yeah.
COUNSELOR: It's that becomes a bigger thing than the thing you're in.
PATIENT: Right, and that's true, right. Yeah, that kind of takes preference over everything else [overlapping voices]
COUNSELOR: Right.
PATIENT: ...when it, you know when it shouldn't. Well you know [overlapping voices]
COUNSELOR: Well it's just the, an accompany-, you know it could be an accompaniment.
PATIENT: Yeah, right, right.
COUNSELOR: And it's in part because you're thinking about it.
PATIENT: M-hmm.
COUNSELOR: Here, here it is. It's taking precedence over other things, so the other things aren't, you're really not free with the other things to feel them. It kind of works this double bond because since it takes precedence over other things you're not in the position where you'd be appreciating other things, the very things that the basic precedence could alleviate your worry because [inaudible] you'd had an erection. [0:08:10.0]
PATIENT: Yeah, right.
COUNSELOR: [inaudible]
PATIENT: Yeah, I understand that (chuckling). It's just kind of (chuckling) as a matter of fact you know just relax. And so and then I thought to myself you know, if you just relax and don't think about it you know, just relax you know (chuckling). And you know and then you know after a while and then, of course, I thought about it again (chuckling), but. Oh, and she, I said to Tanya, I said, "Oh, did — have I changed?" She says, "Yes." And then I said, "Oh yeah?" I says, "Oh, you're not just saying that?" She says, "No, you know really."
COUNSELOR: Yeah.
PATIENT: You know and I just, and I says, "Oh, you're not just saying, you know just because we, you know we parked a couple a couple of times?" She says, "No." You know just the whole outlook about [inaudible] I said, "Well thanks (chuckling)." You know she's just, it's kind of unbelievable. [0:09:00.6]
You know I called her up that Monday and I said you know that I was going to this wedding with this girl you know, and she was — I think she said, well you know that she, she said something like you know she wasn't you know "well so what", you know just trying to be not that unconcerned. And oh, say, "Well why bother telling me you know?" And I said, "Well because I want, I'd rather be with you." And she just couldn't (chuckling) say anything, you know it just kind of like stifled her right then and there (chuckling).
COUNSELOR: Didn't really like it.
PATIENT: Yeah, right.
COUNSELOR: She was really surprised that you could come right out and say it?
PATIENT: I'd come right out and say it, right.
COUNSELOR: And you felt really good [overlapping voices]
PATIENT: Yeah, I did, I really did you know. And she just you know [overlapping voices]
COUNSELOR: It was honest and then [overlapping voices]
PATIENT: Yeah!
COUNSELOR: ...it sounded like it.
PATIENT: Right. And she was just you know, oh, she was just, (chuckling) she couldn't say anything, so it was really terrific, (chuckling) it was really terrific. But (chuckling) I don't know.
COUNSELOR: And you really kind of liked it that, like you really feel like you're in a relationship, [overlapping voices]
PATIENT: M-hmm.
COUNSELOR: ...the fact that you know you can say so and kind of [overlapping voices]
PATIENT: Right.
COUNSELOR: ...it's strongly recognized [overlapping voices]
PATIENT: Right, right, yeah.
COUNSELOR: ...and it was good. [0:10:01.0]
PATIENT: Uh-huh, really. And I think she was kind of surprised of the fact that you know that we, that I parked you know, that it was I who took the initiative (chuckling).
COUNSELOR: Of course, and not like the last time where she said, "I want to go parking (ph)?"
PATIENT: Yeah, right, it wasn't like the last time you know. It was just like you know I was the one who came over you know and said I wanted to go out. And then I was the one who parked you know and said you know "okay", and she says, "Oh wow, we're going to park?" And I said, "Yeah, you know." So she, you know she was really surprised there, too. She was really you know (chuckling), it kind of blew her mind (chuckling). But you know I did enjoy it, except for that one lousy factor (chuckling).
COUNSELOR: M-hmm. Kind of like that somehow seems to just stand in the way of you [overlapping voices]
PATIENT: M-hmm.
COUNSELOR: ...really being wholeheartedly (ph) [overlapping voices]
PATIENT: M-hmm, m-hmm, m-hmm. And then the minute, you know and then I, then I started to think about you know, oh, what if, you know then the ultimate thing that if I you know did go to bed with her and I wasn't (chuckling) able to get an erection I'd, you know that would be it right then and there, and oh, it was (chuckling) you know.
COUNSELOR: Well wait a minute, wait a second. Why? Why would that be right then and there? [0:11:03.9]
PATIENT: Well I mean you know then I, you know I couldn't possibly have intercourse (chuckling) with her.
COUNSELOR: Yeah, but that's, so that's [with time] (ph).
PATIENT: Yeah, that's — but I would feel, you know I wouldn't, no, I would feel kind of like [overlapping voices]
COUNSELOR: That was the ultimate thing [overlapping voices]
PATIENT: ...hat was the ultimate thing, yeah.
COUNSELOR: Yeah, but you see the point, the thing is you know is that you're worried about it, it can make it true.
PATIENT: Yeah I know.
COUNSELOR: And if it's true, that so what, don't. You know it's only, you know what I'm only I'm saying, if that does happen, [overlapping voices]
PATIENT: Yeah.
COUNSELOR: ...that those kinds of things happen.
PATIENT: Yeah.
COUNSELOR: You know frequently the first time someone sleeps with a partner or attempts to sleep with a woman, [overlapping voices]
PATIENT: M-hmm, m-hmm.
COUNSELOR: ...you know it's a big thing and they kind of get scared, over rot, so they can't.
PATIENT: Yeah, I can understand.
COUNSELOR: Do you know what I mean?
PATIENT: Yeah, uh-huh.
COUNSELOR: You know and the thing is not to get shattered by that. Do you know what I mean?
PATIENT: M-hmm, m-hmm.
COUNSELOR: That that's the ultimate test, because it's not the ultimate test.
PATIENT: Yeah, yeah.
COUNSELOR: And don't set it up that way, because then if you, you know if they're setting it up that way it works against you, too. It's like worrying. [0:12:01.3]
PATIENT: Yeah, I can see what you're saying. Yeah, right, if you're going to worry about it, you know this being the ultimate test, nothing is going to happen.
COUNSELOR: Yeah, then it's more likely to make it true you know.
PATIENT: M-hmm, m-hmm.
COUNSELOR: I mean true that you know you won't have an erection.
PATIENT: M-hmm, m-hmm, yeah.
COUNSELOR: And you know that.
PATIENT: That would be an awful experience though, it really would be.
COUNSELOR: It's not a pleasant experience but like, you know [overlapping voices]
PATIENT: Really.
COUNSELOR: ...when I, but I guess you know it's not the end of the world or the ultimate test. And you know [overlapping voices]
PATIENT: Yeah.
COUNSELOR: ...you're seeing it that way and you're setting it up that way and that's a dangerous thing to do. Do you see what I mean?
PATIENT: Uh-huh, yeah.
COUNSELOR: Because sex isn't just the kind of thing where you know here's the chance and it works or it doesn't. It's [overlapping voices]
PATIENT: M-hmm.
COUNSELOR: ...there are lots of shades in between of, you know it will make you feel nervous [overlapping voices]
PATIENT: Yeah.
COUNSELOR: ...if you can't have an erection. I mean that happens you know more times than you'd know (chuckling).
PATIENT: I see.
COUNSELOR: I mean well a lot more than you know.
PATIENT: Uh-huh.
COUNSELOR: I mean it's just not you know. [0:13:01.7]
PATIENT: Yeah (chuckling).
COUNSELOR: Because it's, of course, I feel that people feel nervous now days if they can't have an erection.
PATIENT: M-hmm, m-hmm, I imagine really (chuckling). Oh God, I hope I'm not nervous (chuckling), but I [overlapping voices]
COUNSELOR: [inaudible at 0:13:16.2]
PATIENT: ...probably will be. Knowing me I probably will be.
COUNSELOR: Or if you're worried.
PATIENT: Yeah, if I'm — and I'd be worried about the whole thing and then [overlapping voices]
COUNSELOR: If that happened, you know if that were to happen you know, [overlapping voices]
PATIENT: Yeah.
COUNSELOR: ...you know I think I'm really sure that she would understand. You know if you say, "Look you know I'm kind of worried about this and that you know this could affect me."
PATIENT: M-hmm, m-hmm.
COUNSELOR: And she'd really be under-, you know I mean it would take some incredibly hard and insensitive [overlapping voices]
PATIENT: In order to not.
COUNSELOR: Yeah. I mean it would take a person that didn't care anything about you, all they [overlapping voices]
PATIENT: M-hmm.
COUNSELOR: ...cared about was having a penis inside of them, [overlapping voices]
PATIENT: M-hmm, m-hmm.
COUNSELOR: ...a hard, erect penis.
PATIENT: M-hmm.
COUNSELOR: You know and you as a person weren't important, to [overlapping voices]
PATIENT: Yeah.
COUNSELOR: ...put you down for it.
PATIENT: I see, yes. Well (chuckling), like I said, I hope that doesn't happen to me. But if it does I hope I do have the right outlook on the whole thing. [0:14:06.8]
COUNSELOR: Yeah, absolutely.
PATIENT: Really (chuckling), really.
COUNSELOR: Because that, that just, you know if you think that that doesn't happen you're really wrong.
PATIENT: Uh-huh.
COUNSELOR: I mean frequently when sex is just, kind of a when a person is unsure about sex, [overlapping voices]
PATIENT: M-hmm, m-hmm.
COUNSELOR: ...it happens very frequently.
PATIENT: M-hmm, I imagine it would (chuckling).
COUNSELOR: So you know but the point is not to — I mean you've already done too much generalizing like on past things, [overlapping voices]
PATIENT: Yeah, that's true.
COUNSELOR: ...after this one situation with that girl [overlapping voices]
PATIENT: M-hmm, yeah.
COUNSELOR: ...that you made a, to base the whole thing on if that happens, you know [overlapping voices]
PATIENT: Yeah, I know.
COUNSELOR: ...you'd be kind of repeating history, just with a different thing. Do you see what I mean?
PATIENT: That's true, that's true, yes, yes (chuckling), really be awful (chuckling), back where I started from, yeah (chuckling), (yawning) I know. [Silence from 0:15:06.5 to 0:15:23.3] It's one of those funny things (chuckling), it's, uh, we're just teaching it in school and all the kids, they're generally interested, you know really interested (chuckling) [overlapping voices]
COUNSELOR: I know.
PATIENT: ...you know about the whole thing you know. And I take it you know they don't, there isn't any, you know they just accept it for what it is. And I think that, wow, this is really, you know there are a few who are very immature about the whole thing, you know they'll snicker and laugh and stuff like that. But most of them you know ask very intelligent questions you know about things and not be afraid to say anything about it you know (chuckling), which is really kind of nice (chuckling).
COUNSELOR: I know. [0:15:57.7]
PATIENT: And it's, so even you know it's nice to approve (ph) you know if, if you know, to answer them, too, you know and just you know [overlapping voices]
COUNSELOR: Yeah, I can imagine.
PATIENT: ...just you know tell them, all right this is the word and this is what happens and stuff like that. But you know they're really you know very interested in it (chuckling). They, you know they do leave a lot, and they even, they do leave a lot out, now that I think about it. Between, um, you know they tell it, all right that the sperm you know meets the egg and all this stuff, but they don't tell, they don't say anything about going about it.
COUNSELOR: About how it happens.
PATIENT: How it happens. You know they just kind of like [overlapping voices]
COUNSELOR: It's all kind of the scientific, [overlapping voices]
PATIENT: Scientific, yeah, right, yeah.
COUNSELOR: ...not the actually aspects of [overlapping voices]
PATIENT: Yeah.
COUNSELOR: ...how reproduction takes place rather than the physical act of it.
PATIENT: Right, right. And like nothing is, is then you know, and I think they're really interested in how it happens. And okay,
COUNSELOR: Do they know?
PATIENT: No. Now up in the, the other grade they did you know. They said you know one kid came up and he says, "Well you know well what happens (chuckling)? You know like how does the sperm get there" [overlapping voices]
COUNSELOR: How did the sperm meet the egg? [0:17:00.5]
PATIENT: "...you know?" Well you what's the story you know? And the teacher said, "Well you know of course, intercourse takes place." And she just you know explained this you now.
COUNSELOR: Yeah.
PATIENT: But they, you know they leave it all out, you know there's nothing I mean as far as you know telling them.
COUNSELOR: It's kind of reproductive education and not education really about sex.
PATIENT: Yeah, right, about sex, yeah, right. It's you now like they call it family living or (chuckling) something you know, but there isn't anything about you know the sex aspect of it.
COUNSELOR: Just what the family does.
PATIENT: Yeah, right, what the family does (chuckling), which is kind of bad, I thought. You know or at least I thought it was. You know they've, [overlapping voices]
COUNSELOR: M-hmm, you're right [overlapping voices]
PATIENT: ...sure they can see all the technical things about it and seeing everything you know and then they'll watch the picture of the, you know the sperm you know wiggling up to meet the egg (chuckling) and all this stuff, but they have no idea about the physical side of it in a sense (chuckling). But I guess it's something you just (chuckling) learn for yourself (chuckling).
COUNSELOR: When nobody gets in the way it would be better because this kind of weak (ph), it kind of really gives some help to have learned it, [overlapping voices] [0:18:01.0]
PATIENT: Yeah.
COUNSELOR: ...so then it's not such a big mystery.
PATIENT: Yeah, right, really.
COUNSELOR: It's such an awful thing that, [overlapping voices]
PATIENT: Yeah.
COUNSELOR: ...you know a thing that can't be talked about publicly.
PATIENT: Publicly, really (chuckling). Really that's the truth, that's the truth. I know, maybe some day (chuckling) they'll have a movie (chuckling).
COUNSELOR: You'd kind of like to see it yourself, right?
PATIENT: Right, yeah, let me see it myself (chuckling). Of course now days they practically do, but (chuckling). How many times have I been here? I'm just trying to figure that.
COUNSELOR: We're on the eighth.
PATIENT: The eighth time, is that all? Oh, wow (chuckling).
COUNSELOR: What's the wow of that? [0:19:02.1]
PATIENT: I don't know, I just thought you know, well you now the eighth time. You know I thought it was like you know the, it seemed like I was really halfway you know through (chuckling).
COUNSELOR: M-hmm. Was it because like whenever, you kind of felt more than eight times worth (ph) or something?
PATIENT: Yeah, right, yeah, you know.
COUNSELOR: You kind of feel like, I mean you were saying last time that you feel kind of different.
PATIENT: Yeah, that's it. You know I just you know feel different and everything else you know.
COUNSELOR: Well you know I mean if you should, you know I mean at some point you know feel like you don't really need the 20, that's fine, too.
PATIENT: M-hmm, m-hmm.
COUNSELOR: You know what I mean?
PATIENT: Yes.
COUNSELOR: You know that's all up to you.
PATIENT: Uh-huh, I understand that (chuckling).
COUNSELOR: And you're not committed for 20, right (other chuckling), that's just the maximum.
PATIENT: So I mean you know the, the greatest thing is just realizing you know what you are and well you know it's up to you.
COUNSELOR: Yeah.
PATIENT: I mean you're the only one who's going to change you, you know.
COUNSELOR: Yeah, and kind of realizing that and working on it.
PATIENT: Yeah, right, you know and doing the same thing.
COUNSELOR: And seeing it happen. [0:20:00.5]
PATIENT: Yeah, right. You know it's just you're the only one who's going to change it you know. But it's also, it's kind of a, it's kind of like going through this change, it's kind of like coming here is more or less like a reinforcement you know and it [overlapping voices]
COUNSELOR: That it kind of crystallized for you, you mean?
PATIENT: Yeah, right, yeah. And you know you just, you know and you could keep on going you know and you're not going to fall back into you're old patterns or [overlapping voices]
COUNSELOR: Right.
PATIENT: ...you're old ways just by coming here, which is even, you know that's kind of nice, too.
COUNSELOR: It kind of helps you to keep going?
PATIENT: Right, right (chuckling). Certainly it helps me to keep on going and keep on changing. And you're not going to sit at that desk and say, "Well so what?"
COUNSELOR: M-hmm.
PATIENT: Which is nice for me because I'm the type of a person that needs a [overlapping voices]
THERAPIST: A push.
PATIENT: ...push. Right (chuckling), that needs a push.
COUNSELOR: Yeah, and really need to know like in terms [to find that] (ph). [0:21:02.2]
PATIENT: Yeah, right, really (chuckling). [Overlapping voices]
COUNSELOR: That kind of sounds like, you know in respect to working on things and working on sex, and it's like you are pushing yourself.
PATIENT: I am.
COUNSELOR: Yeah.
PATIENT: M-hmm, I am.
COUNSELOR: It's like you want it different and you're working on it.
PATIENT: I am (chuckling). And am happy that I'm, and happy that I am you know.
COUNSELOR: Yeah, and it feels good to see yourself carrying through all this.
PATIENT: Yeah, right, and do something you know, and doing something about it, instead of sitting back and doing nothing about it, which is really the nice thing about it (chuckling). That's certainly how a lot of people do, they become so paranoid you know, because they don't do anything about it you know and nothing is done about it you know. I mean as far as them doing something about it, maybe they need a push, too (chuckling).
COUNSELOR: M-hmm. [0:22:01.4]
PATIENT: Which is sad but (chuckling) there's always shock treatments (chuckling). I don't know what else to say (chuckling).
COUNSELOR: Kind of feel lighter (ph)?
PATIENT: Yeah (chuckling). I really am (chuckling), like I don't know what else to say (chuckling).
COUNSELOR: It kind of sounds like you know you're feeling pretty good that you said it.
PATIENT: Yeah, right. Yeah, I said it and so (chuckling).
COUNSELOR: You kind of felt good [that you've now said it] (ph).
PATIENT: Right, right, you know, that's about it (chuckling). [Silence from 0:22:46.8 to 0:23:34.6] It's like this morning, oh, I'd forgotten to bring Tanya the magazines, so she had to drop by school and pick them up you know on her way to work. So (chuckling) we were out in the front, you know and we were goofing around, and one of the other teachers (chuckling) had seen us you know and she was, "Oh, who was that out in front with you?" And I says, "Oh, that was my Cancer." I mean she was talking about different signs. They were talking about different signs the other day and they said, oh, is it Cancer and Scorpio were having heavy lovers or something (chuckling) like this you know. And I says, "Oh, that was Cancer." She's, "Oh, yeah (chuckling)?" And I said, "Right, Tanya (chuckling)." She's, "Uh-huh." She was carrying on a public display you know (chuckling). [0:24:18.8]
COUNSELOR: Don't cross your stars in public.
PATIENT: Right, right (chuckling). And I said, "Right (chuckling)."
COUNSELOR: Well it really kind of feels nice just to [be looking up at the stars] (ph).
PATIENT: Yeah, right, really (chuckling). Oh, and Tanya said, you know, yeah, yesterday she was talking about, she said, um, that she was going to Spain this summer (chuckling), which kind of you know just, and you know like she's taking a course in Spanish cuisine and guitar (chuckling) or something like this. That it just came up you know, like a friend of her mother's that is planning to go, and you know like she has to have her, she had to have her money in today you know. [0:25:03.5]
COUNSELOR: M-hmm.
PATIENT: And she just got the thing yesterday, so like an (snapping fingers) instantaneous decision you know. This week she said, well you know it costs something like, I've forgotten, oh, $650.00 from New York to Spain. And you've got, you know you have your room and board and your meals and, and you had you're, um, also you're tuition paid for and all that stuff you know. And then you have three weeks afterwards you know to travel and tour.
And she wanted me to go, and I was you know, I says, you know I says, "Okay, how much does it cost?" So we were figuring out all these costs, and I said "no way" you know, which is really kind of lousy. And I you know but I couldn't bring myself to say "well don't go" (chuckling) you know.
COUNSELOR: Yeah, and you didn't want — how long is the [inaudible] do you know?
PATIENT: Oh, like from May 25, I think, to September 16, you know it's a long time.
COUNSELOR: So it's quite a length.
PATIENT: Yeah.
COUNSELOR: Almost four months it sounds like. [0:26:01.3]
PATIENT: Yeah, you know like the whole summer practically, you know would be shot.
COUNSELOR: Uh-huh, [that would be fun] (ph).
PATIENT: Yeah.
COUNSELOR: Without seeing her, but you couldn't quite say "don't go"?
PATIENT: You know I couldn't quite say you know "don't go".
COUNSELOR: Could you say about it "the thought of you being away that long and not seeing you [inaudible at 0:26:14.2]"?
PATIENT: Yeah. And like I, I knew I should've said something you know.
COUNSELOR: Yeah.
PATIENT: But I said you know, "You know I just can't go, you know." And I said you know and I was, you know I told her, I said, "You know I've got rent to pay and all this stuff (chuckling), and I just don't have enough money." So, um, you know, she goes, well she was going to go. And then but she was kind of hesitant and saying, "Well you know I am signing up late and they've only got room for 300. I'll probably get my money back or something like this." But you know I don't know if she, she did. She probably did send it in. I don't know. I'll have to call her and find out if she sent it in.
COUNSELOR: Yeah. You know I mean you just, I mean you know the way you feel is still the way you feel.
PATIENT: Yeah, right.
COUNSELOR: I mean and so if it's going to, and it really kind of makes you feel better to think about not seeing her for that long.
PATIENT: Yeah, it did you know.
COUNSELOR: And it can be that you feel that way now and can say it now, you know even if she still goes it's kind of a, it's saying something that'll feel good to her in a way, because [overlapping voices] [0:27:04.8]
PATIENT: That's true.
COUNSELOR: you know then [overlapping voices]
PATIENT: Yeah, that's true.
COUNSELOR: ...you're saying "you can't", [overlapping voices]
PATIENT: Yeah, that's true, yeah.
COUNSELOR: ...and you do.
PATIENT: Yeah, I do you know. But I though you know (chuckling), I thought to myself, well who am I to ask her not to go you know. It's, I mean hell if I had the money, enough money to go to Spain I'd go, too, you know but, so I just didn't like it (chuckling), just couldn't get myself around to say it (chuckling).
COUNSELOR: I know.
PATIENT: I think it's kind of lousy but, to find out she mailed her money in (chuckling). That is a hell of a long time you know.
COUNSELOR: Well maybe it doesn't quite feel right to tell her not to go, but [overlapping voices]
PATIENT: Yeah.
COUNSELOR: ...you're certainly kind of opening that possibility up to her without demanding it by saying [overlapping voices]
PATIENT: Yeah.
COUNSELOR: ...you know "gee, I'd miss you for that long". [0:27:56.9]
PATIENT: Yeah. There's an idea (chuckling). Don't tell her not to go, but tell her I do, I would miss her (chuckling). It sounded like a nice trip though (chuckling). And it's like reasonable for what you get out of it. I think you get six hours to [inaudible]. I don't know if it was six hours, six [inaudible]
COUNSELOR: Studying cooking, Spanish [overlapping voices]
PATIENT: Yeah.
COUNSELOR: ...cooking and what?
PATIENT: Guitar.
COUNSELOR: And well playing the guitar.
PATIENT: Yeah. And she says, "Or you could take" she said, uh, I said, "Well I'm not going to take cooking." And Sheila (chuckling) says, "You can take Spanish you know." And she goes, well she was going to take Spanish, but she didn't, she decided she didn't want to study you know while she was over there (chuckling).
COUNSELOR: Yeah, anything with a book.
PATIENT: Yeah, right, anything as far as books were concerned, so she didn't want it. And I says, "Yeah, I could see myself you know sitting around in Spain, you know and my writing some vocabulary or something (chuckling)."
COUNSELOR: Does she speak Spanish?
PATIENT: No (chuckling), neither do I. And it's a 4-week course you know and I thought, oh wow, it could be a little bit too intensive besides that (chuckling) for that type of a course, but it did sound nice (chuckling). [0:29:05.4]
COUNSELOR: Spanish cooking is real good.
PATIENT: Yeah, well that's what she said. You know she says, you know it wouldn't be any of a big hassle for her and she'd enjoy doing that. You know it wouldn't be like studying or work or anything like that. It would be more of a pleasure than anything else. And I said, "Yeah, it would be nice." Said you know like you could've stayed in a home or you could've stayed in a dorm, which is really kind of interesting, too. They said it's at this University of San Diego, and he was sponsoring the whole thing. But (chuckling) and just she says "well I'll make a hasty decision", and she did (yawning and chuckling). Well usually when I make them I'm wrong anyway (chuckling), so.
COUNSELOR: [It made you feel bad with not doing it] (ph)? [0:29:54.6]
PATIENT: Yeah, I was you know, it was kind of like a down feeling you know (chuckling), a down feeling (chuckling). I meant to ask her this morning if she was on her way to the post office. She bought a kit, sent, she had to send it like you know airmail and all that stuff actually.
COUNSELOR: I mean you know whether she sent in her money or not, I mean it's still real for you to be able you know to say, [overlapping voices]
PATIENT: Yeah, that's true.
COUNSELOR: ..."you know, look Tanya, it makes me feel really down" [overlapping voices]
PATIENT: M-hmm.
COUNSELOR: "...because you're going to be going away for that long".
PATIENT: Yeah, that's true, why not (chuckling), even if she did send it in.
COUNSELOR: You mean it's, do you feel like you'd be losing face or something or you have to be cooler about it or?
PATIENT: I don't know why. I don't know why you know. Maybe because I'm you know really not quite sure of myself, that you know like I should just you know say to her, "you know stay with me". And you know when she has this opportunity to you know do this fantastic thing. And just you know, well I thought you know I, I, I guess maybe why, I don't know. [0:31:01.2]
COUNSELOR: Unless when she finally told you what to do, come with quite as a surprise.
PATIENT: Oh yeah, it was, it was really.
COUNSELOR: It just felt, something [flipping you out] (ph).
PATIENT: Yeah, right, it was. It was really a surprise because you know like, well her, her mom had talked about it before you know, but I didn't, you know I thought well you know she's, you know they talked about it, so what you know. But then you know she said she had the booklet in her hand, she was filling out the old forms (chuckling), and I said, "Oh (chuckling)." And I was kind of happy she asked me to go along at any rate.
COUNSELOR: Right, this could be nice.
PATIENT: Yeah (chuckling).
COUNSELOR: I mean it wasn't like, she was like she did want you.
PATIENT: Yeah, she, uh, she did. You know she didn't, she did want me to come along you know, and I was kind of happy that she asked me along. And I say, of course, I could've taken out a loan myself, yet I don't want to get into that nonsense (chuckling), so. [0:32:00.8]
Well at any rate (chuckling), and then, of course, my — well I have been planning to go back to my parents for — they had said they were going to go to California you know. And I was saving my money, I was going to go to Europe, but I never really got enough money, so.
COUNSELOR: [Why not] (ph)?
PATIENT: I said, "I ought to go back to California with them, because with them it would be cheaper (chuckling).
COUNSELOR: I know.
PATIENT: Because if we get this place on the beach then there's, you know instead of just my cousins and I it would be, they would also be you know kicking in for the rent (chuckling). So you know I was planning on going to California you know and, of course, I never invited her to go along you know. I thought about that (chuckling) later you know.
COUNSELOR: Yeah.
PATIENT: I could've said, "Well why don't you come along with us you know (chuckling)?"
COUNSELOR: I know.
PATIENT: And she had been talking about driving cross country but that's about it. I mean you know I couldn't do that with anybody because I don't enjoy driving that much (chuckling), but.
COUNSELOR: Yeah. [0:32:59.9]
PATIENT: This is just weird, how it changes (chuckling).
COUNSELOR: How what?
PATIENT: How it changed. That you know like before I was thinking of you know, if I wanted to go somewhere I'd rather be alone you know and go. But now it's different (chuckling).
COUNSELOR: And now you'd really like to be with her?
PATIENT: Yeah, right, now it's different. It's really weird how I've changed.
COUNSELOR: Yeah, but the thing about that is then how is she to know that?
PATIENT: Yeah, that's right (chuckling).
COUNSELOR: Yeah?
PATIENT: That's right, really.
COUNSELOR: I mean how is she to know that you know, like you know you're starting to make things a little clearer to her, but how is she to know that you mean you really want to be with her this summer?
PATIENT: M-hmm, m-hmm, yeah, that's true, that's true.
COUNSELOR: I mean that you can't just assume that she should know this.
PATIENT: Yeah.
COUNSELOR: Because she needs [to hear it] (ph).
PATIENT: That's true (chuckling), that is true.
COUNSELOR: And she's told you she wants you to go.
PATIENT: Yeah, right (chuckling), right. I was thinking about it and it would really be nice if I could go to Spain, you know really (chuckling). [0:34:04.6]
COUNSELOR: What, the cost is only $650.00 for that whole time?
PATIENT: No. But you know like then you have to, if you travel afterwards you know. And she was thinking of that, but you know going further eastward in Europe or just you know going down to northern Africa, [inaudible at 0:34:20.4]
COUNSELOR: Yeah, get a charter bus and you can go to Europe real cheap.
PATIENT: Oh, yeah, right, but this is all the, this is this package you know, [overlapping voices]
COUNSELOR: Right.
PATIENT: ...where you go to school and everything you know. And not being you know involved (ph) in it and I'd have to have three months rent saved up and you know.
COUNSELOR: You can't sublet your place really?
PATIENT: No, not now (chuckling), not now. No one is subletting these days, at least in that area (chuckling).
COUNSELOR: Oh.
PATIENT: So. At any rate, I will have to tell her I'll miss her though (chuckling). I don't know if that would do the trick but there's no harm in saying it (chuckling), at least she'd know I care (chuckling). [0:35:06.0]
COUNSELOR: Right.
PATIENT: Really (chuckling).
COUNSELOR: It may not you know be much longer to be together but [overlapping voices]
PATIENT: Together, right (chuckling).
COUNSELOR: ...so it's a good time to think about that.
PATIENT: Yeah, right, really.
COUNSELOR: And maybe that's what you really need.
PATIENT: Yeah, that's really it you know. I (chuckling) told her, like I said last night, I said, "You know, well Saturday night" I said "I thought I was really rotten" you know, and I said, you know "because I really wanted to be with you Saturday night alone." And she said, "Yeah, right (chuckling)."
COUNSELOR: Yeah.
PATIENT: She says, "Well now you know how I felt." And I said, "Yes (chuckling)."
COUNSELOR: So it's really shared?
PATIENT: Really. But she did mention that I'm, she says, "And you're getting so verbal." And I said, "Right (chuckling)."
COUNSELOR: Well I guess that's, I mean that well you feel good about it.
PATIENT: Yeah, right, I do.
COUNSELOR: It's kind of being able to say honestly what's going on, I mean and what you're feeling, rather than keeping it all in.
PATIENT: Yeah, which is really kind of nice.
COUNSELOR: It's really sharing it.
PATIENT: Yeah (chuckling). [Silence from 0:36:01.2 to 0:37:31.5] I was thinking that Tanya had mentioned this girl in her glass, one of her classes, you know and they were picking on this girl [simply because she wears glasses] (ph). And then probably, I remember myself I was always, I was picked on in high school, I remembered that. It was like I went to CVS, it's a vocational school on the south side of New York.
COUNSELOR: Oh, yeah.
PATIENT: Yeah. It's always been kind of renowned as being as being one of the worst schools, and it was, and you know especially [overlapping voices]
COUNSELOR: Tough.
PATIENT: A tough school, yeah, really.
COUNSELOR: Yeah. [0:38:00.2]
PATIENT: Where I, I didn't have no business being there in the first place (chuckling). And I, but the reason I had gone there was, I remember it well. You know like I had taken the test, and you know you have to take a test to get into the private parochial schools. So I had to go to summer school, I took the test and I had to go to summer school for math and something else, I can't remember now. And anyway, um, actually you know I was just getting out of [inaudible at 0:38:27.3] Christ I don't want to go to summer school, you know (chuckling) I had school up to here. And so you know my father says "Well why don't you go over here to CVS and you can learn a good trade and you won't, you know you won't have to go to school after high school" and all this stuff, which was really a mistake because I had no (chuckling) business being there you know.
But I really, you know there was, and there weren't really that many close friends in high school that you know I went to school with. You know they just like, number one, everybody who was, who went to the high school, like it was like a whole citywide school you know, they just, you just came from all areas you know.
COUNSELOR: [inaudible] [0:39:00.8]
PATIENT: You know like a, it wasn't like a community school, you know like everybody came from everywhere else you know. And think, of course, being very small again, and I remember being picked on you know and stuff like that.
COUNSELOR: Yeah.
PATIENT: And I thought to myself and I said, you know well, and Tanya had said you know, well she took this girl down to the counselor. And I thought to myself, God if I was in high school, if I only, if I only would've gone to that counselor you know and really had seen you know. I think I had saw a counselor maybe once or twice in [inaudible at 0:39:29.6] year, and I think that was, I think maybe for college registration and then maybe one time for a permit to get a job or something like that you know whenever [overlapping voices]
COUNSELOR: And you were just thinking what if you had gone to this counselor?
PATIENT: M-hmm, yeah, right. You know and if I only had enough guts to get up [overlapping voices]
COUNSELOR: Guts, uh-huh.
PATIENT: ...and say "you know well this guy is picking on me" you know.
COUNSELOR: Right.
PATIENT: Of course you know that was [inaudible at 0:39:54.3] you know "I'll beat the shit out of you if you say anything" [overlapping voices]
COUNSELOR: Right.
PATIENT: ...you know and stuff like that.
COUNSELOR: But there you were kind of, [overlapping voices]
PATIENT: Yeah, right.
COUNSELOR: ...just being kind of stepped on and picked on? [0:40:02.3]
PATIENT: Yeah, right, yeah. And you know I thought to myself, wow, that was dumb. That was, uh, while, that was like, I think it was my sophomore or junior year. But then in the senior year kind of like everyone more or less changed I remember. You know everyone was getting out and everyone was, everyone was really trying to do their best at that point you know.
COUNSELOR: Yeah, and they're thinking they are going to have to get out into the world.
PATIENT: Yeah, right.
COUNSELOR: It's not for the school.
PATIENT: Yeah, right (chuckling). Everyone was you know really, really doing their best at that point. Seniors are really different, you know they are really, you know you really become so much more mature you know. And I remember you know and then I was getting you know much better grades and this one teacher kind of like you know took me under his wing and said "you know go to college" and all this stuff, you know so things really rather, it was really nice in the senior year. And there was really even a couple of guys who really you know I had got to be real friends with all during our senior year. But the other three were nonsense, just (chuckling) complete, utter nonsense, which is really sad, really sad. [0:41:10.0]
COUNSELOR: A hard time in your life?
PATIENT: Yeah it was, it really was, it was a very difficult time. You know like I was, and then you know like all my brothers and sisters I mean they were all in the parochial school and all this stuff. And, um, it was like you know, oh, they were you know like they were out of school more than I was you know and I missed going to school (chuckling) and then you know lying in home in bed, I don't have [to give substantive thought] (ph) (chuckling). But the senior year you know you just kind of took it and just you know really did your best, which was kind of nice, at any rate after one year out of three (chuckling), I thought it wasn't too bad, it wasn't too bad.
What was funny though, my, my younger brother, who should've gone to the school you know, didn't go, he went to the parochial school (chuckling). But he is the one that is more inclined as far as a trade is concerned you know. But my parents didn't send him because they knew that he would be the one that you know that there are always, and there are so many gangs in that school it was just unbelievable you know, and fights every single day. You know it was a, really a [overlapping voices] [0:42:14.2]
COUNSELOR: And he would be in the midst of it.
PATIENT: Yeah, he would be in the midst of it. And he would be the one that would really become involved in it you know, and maybe it was ivy (ph). And it was probably the, the only reason I didn't was fear, you know become involved in it, [overlapping voices]
COUNSELOR: Right.
PATIENT: ...you know the fear of it you know.
COUNSELOR: Yeah.
PATIENT: [Christ's name, there'd just be] (ph), there'd be blood up and down the hallway (chuckling) and everything else, it was really quite a school, really quite a school. But the thing that after I you know was thinking about it, I thought you know, if you really did something within four years you could've really made it, make it worthwhile. You know because they, they did have an, offer you a lot, but it was up to you, you know.
COUNSELOR: Yeah.
PATIENT: Either you did it or you know no one was going to.
COUNSELOR: But the atmosphere of the place, [overlapping voices]
PATIENT: Yeah.
COUNSELOR: ...was kind of against [overlapping voices]
PATIENT: Yeah, yes, really.
COUNSELOR: ...learning things wasn't it?
PATIENT: That's the truth. Learning, you know like they did have, the teachers you know most of them were half decent and they had you know a lot of equipment and stuff to work with.
COUNSELOR: Yeah, [inaudible] [0:43:07.0]
PATIENT: Yeah, you could've really learned something, but (chuckling) it just wasn't conducive (chuckling) to learning (chuckling). It was really kind of a joke.
COUNSELOR: That school renown has a whole lot of racial things?
PATIENT: Yeah, right, yeah. It's practically all black now.
COUNSELOR: Yeah.
PATIENT: Yeah. And I, and that's the time (ph), as far as the public school in the neighborhood that and you know is all black you know, and then you know you couldn't go to an all black school. I mean not that, you know I probably wouldn't have lasted a day anyway (chuckling).
COUNSELOR: Yeah.
PATIENT: So, which is the reason why. And just kids are cruel, they are really cruel, you know just [overlapping voices]
COUNSELOR: Right.
PATIENT: ...really cruel. Take today, this one girl, you know there's a couple of kids in this, in this school who are practically white. You know they, they really you know they're, you know you couldn't even tell, they could pass for being white. And you know the other kids go up to them you know "are you, you know are you a honky" and you know "you blue-eyed honky" and stuff [overlapping voices] [0:44:09.2]
COUNSELOR: Yeah.
PATIENT: ...like that you know and it's really so cruel. You know it's just really a shame you know.
COUNSELOR: I know, really that kids can be mean to each other.
PATIENT: Yeah, right. And I was thinking, you know I thought to myself you know after you know it would really, if effected, it effected me, you know how is this going to effect the rest of these kids?
COUNSELOR: Yeah.
PATIENT: Just because they're different you know, and they just you know. In fact, this one girl, you know she came up to Viv, she says "I can't even tell you what they called me", you know she had to write it down, they called me a white honky you know and just it's really sad, really sad. In fact, I wondered and you know I sense that you know like that so something was, well I heard someone expounding on children you know and how beautiful children are and all this stuff (chuckling). And I thought, buddy (chuckling).
COUNSELOR: Yeah, I mean there's kind of a real, [overlapping voices]
PATIENT: Yeah, I mean [overlapping voices]
COUNSELOR: ...a real myth about the beauty and angelicness of children, because children are really very cruel sometimes. [0:45:04.8]
PATIENT: They are, they really are you know. And I thought you know you don't know them (chuckling) you know.
COUNSELOR: That's right.
PATIENT: You really don't know.
COUNSELOR: Sometimes I think people like them like the movies or something (ph).
PATIENT: Yes, that they're ill in their soul, you know they're so innocent and they're naive and they're so beautiful and all this stuff you know and I just thought, you're crazy (chuckling). It doesn't take long for a child to learn his way around.
COUNSELOR: Yeah.
PATIENT: I mean and they catch onto the prejudices just as quick as anybody else does you know, they aren't any different (chuckling). That's really, it's lousy, it really is.
COUNSELOR: [And maybe with the older people you could quote because they have more sophisticated forms, with children it's just blatant] (ph).
PATIENT: Yeah, right, that's true, too. I mean they'll come out and tell you, you know they hate your guts! But at least, yeah, well I don't know if that's for better, I don't know, it's, it's really kind of cruel, it really is. And it's rather of a game though, too, with children kind of. You know where they'll, well they start talking about one another or talking about one another's mother or something you know, and it's a game that they're playing. [0:46:06.4]
COUNSELOR: Yeah.
PATIENT: But I think you know like some of them are really, they have feelings and they really get upset [overlapping voices]
COUNSELOR: Sure, [they have them and they hurt] (ph).
PATIENT: ...about the whole thing and they take it very personally and they get hurt. And you know they just have no concept of the fact you know that they're hurting.
COUNSELOR: Yeah, just of other people's feelings.
PATIENT: Yeah, right, other people's feelings, they you know they couldn't care, they could not care (chuckling) and as long as they have the last word (chuckling).
COUNSELOR: [We're at the end of the session] (ph).
PATIENT: Okay.
COUNSELOR: Now do you want to come in this Friday or do you want to wait till Monday?
PATIENT: Let's wait till Monday.
COUNSELOR: Okay. [0:46:37.5]
END TRANSCRIPT
