TRANSCRIPT OF AUDIO FILE:
______________________________________________________________________________
BEGIN TRANSCRIPT:
THERAPIST: Hi, come on in.
CLIENT: Hi (ph). Sorry. Sorry I'm late. It was hard to find parking.
This week was not a good one. My grandmother passed away on Thursday...
THERAPIST: Sorry to hear that.
CLIENT: ...and we had the funeral yesterday. And the whole process of, you know, the wake and the funeral, it was—I don't know, it was not kind of, like, what I expected. [00:01:02] You know we mentioned before, I thought about not going and, you know, doing all this other stuff. And I did end up going. I ended up going to the wake. I ended up going to the funeral and it was kind of difficult for me. You know, I mean, there were times where I did get emotional, you know, I did break down and cry. But I didn't break down and cry for the reasons that I missed her, that I had a connection with her. I broke down more seeing my dad break down, seeing my great uncle, who is my grandmother's brother, break down, seeing, you know, cousins and other family members that I know break down. And for me, it was just, you know, it was just part of, you know, the emotion things where I just, you know, I had a couple tears and then, you know, I got myself together. [00:02:07]
There was one particular point at the wake when the priest came and they blessed the body at the wake. And I kind of broke down during that because it was kind of surreal and it was the end. It was happening. But I didn't break down to the point where, you know, I missed my grandmother—I broke down because it triggered other things in my memory, you know, like when I saw my grandmother die and witnessed all that, you know, wake proceedings and (inaudible at 02:43) there. That's kind of what triggered my emotions a little bit more. And it just was kind of very difficult for me because I didn't—and I kept telling this to my girlfriend. You know, the first couple days she was dead I was, like, happy, I was joyous, I was, like, dancing, you know, I kind of had a good upbeat attitude, but as, you know, the wake and the funeral got closer and closer my attitude started to change a little bit, you know, and just talking with family members and visiting with them and just watching how emotional they got, you know.
And my girlfriend and I had this conversation where I was like, "Is it wrong that I don't feel the emotion that everybody else is feeling?" I said, "is it wrong that I'm not feeling the connection of love that they all have towards my grandmother, that I guess my grandmother had towards them?" I kind of felt like I was left out. I felt a lot like I was missing something, like that emotional part of our relationship was not there. And it kind of bothered me, because my sister didn't cry the whole time we were there. My brothers had tears like me, but overall I'd say we weren't as emotional as my dad's sister's children, as my dad's brother's children. [00:04:16]
So overall, it was kind of—it was different. It was really different because, you know, I could feel it that, you know, I wanted to feel the sadness. I wanted to feel the emotion. I wanted to feel the love. And to be quite honest, I couldn't do it. I couldn't feel it. That was the one connection that I was missing. I was really struggling to find that and I was getting more emotional when, you know, my dad would just break down, is that's when I started feeling the emotion, just seeing his sadness. When my great uncle started crying, you know, I started feeling the sadness, not because my grandmother was gone but the pain that they were going through. And it was kind of difficult because I, you know, I didn't really prepare. I didn't really know what to expect. [00:05:21]
And then it happens and, you know, I kept questioning myself. The whole time I was, "Is something wrong with me? Like, why I am acting like this? Why is there no emotion, no nothing? Why am I not more upset over her dying? Why am I not, you know, as emotional as, you know, my cousins and my aunts and my uncles? Why am I not feeling that?" And it was funny, because my mother was actually more emotional than any of us. Any I don't know why. You know, I was kind of confused at that where, you know, they had a very rocky relationship. And I guess I'd have to ask my mother, but I don't know if she was crying because she felt bad for my dad as well or for my uncles and my aunts. [00:06:22]
You know, it was just very uncomfortable the whole time because the emotional attachment that everybody else had I didn't really have. And everybody was asking me how I was doing and I told them, "I'm fine," you know, and I said it with, like, a smile on my face. I was like, I'm fine. I know I'm fine. You know, we talked about it for so many years that this day was coming. Well it finally came and, you know, it was what it was. I mean, last week after we met, I went home because my grandmother wasn't doing good. I went to my parents' house because I had something to do later on that night and I went to the hospital and saw my grandmother, because my dad had been asking me, "Go see her. She needs to—go see her, she's not doing well." [00:07:30]
And up to that point, I was the last person to not have seen my grandmother. Actually it was Wednesday, excuse me. So I go and see her Wednesday night. I spend about two hours up there, you know, just watching her asleep in the bed, you know, not doing so well, very pale, this that and the other thing. And then I wake up Thursday morning, you know, to go to work with my dad, and we get a call that my grandmother passed that morning. And I don't know what it was but my sister joked me, you know, she was like, "You were the kiss of death. Like, she waited to see you. After she saw you, then she passed away." Because she ended up seeing all of us grandchildren and her great-grandchildren before she ultimately passed away. [00:08:33]
And for me, I was just like, "Well, I don't think that was true," but it was kind of a coincidence because the night that I did go, you know, she was fine, she was up talking to people. And then when they say it's not good and then I go and then as soon as I, you know, see her for the first time in months, since she's been in the hospital, she ends up passing away. And I just can't explain, you know, part of me I guess I was happy, because part of me knows that the relationship that we had is over. That part of my life is over. I felt like there was a big burst, a big monkey taken off my anxiety back, because not worrying about, you know, what was going to happen when it did happen, not having so much anger towards her anymore, because now is at peace. Now she is, you know, in a better place. Did she apologize for all the stuff she did in the past? No. Did I expect her to? No.
But, you know, moving forward now that she is gone, there is a lot of hostility on my dad's side of the family. My grandmother was the piece that was kind of keeping the peace between my dad's family—well, my dad and my siblings and my mom and his sister's family. There was a lot of tension at the wake. There was a lot of awkwardness at the family's houses, you know, when we were trying to mourn my grandmother's death. [00:10:45] And, you know, I do feel bad because I could see the uncomfortableness in my aunt because she knew that was her safety net. And now that my grandmother's gone I think she realizes the safety net is not there because of the hurt she's caused my family, the hurt she's caused towards her brother, and the anger that's going to be unleashed. You know, before my dad always said, he's like, we'll keep the peace as long as my grandmother's alive. Well now my grandmother's not alive. And, you know, I (inaudible at 11:28) my girlfriend asked me, she goes, "What's going to happen now?" I said, "There's going to be a huge eruption. it's going to be like a hurricane." I go, "But I don't know when it's going to happen." I go, "But I do know (coughs)—excuse me—that a storm's coming."
THERAPIST: Who's going to be erupting?
CLIENT: Everybody. I think it's just—you know how we need to vent when we build up so much anger and so much emotions and inside, [I mean] (ph), you know, you just need to vent. And I feel that everything is built—you know, now that my grandmother's gone, everything's been built up and now the cork's been removed. And it's just ready to explode. I do know that the process of selling my grandmother's house is going to be a gigantic problem now, because my dad is very irritated with his sister's husband and that's going to be a battle in itself. And now that my grandmother's not there, I know my mother is very emotional. She's going to start chiming in and she's just going to start attacking. [00:12:48]
And for me, my way of dealing with it—and I had this conversation with my dad—is my cousin's getting married in August. Well you know, my dad's sister's son is getting married in August and I've made it clear that I'm not going to the wedding. And my dad's upset. "What aren't you going?" I go, "Because now I don't have to go." I go, "Now, I don't want to support, you know, what's been going on." I go, "I think someone needs to represent that we're not just going to always reward them for the mistreatment they've done to us, they've done to you." And I know my sister's felt the same way. I don't think she's attending. And I think, you know, my other cousins from my dad's brother, his children, I think, you know, his son's not planning on attending either. And to me you can just see the divide now between the families. [00:13:54]
And I think, you know, because there was a lot of backstabbing, there was a lot of two-faced stuff going on, there was a lot of my grandmother said this, when it comes back that she never really did it. You know, there's a lot of stuff, a lot of emotional stuff that's going to happen. And my best way of avoiding is to not be involved in anything, because that's what I told my girlfriend. I go, "When I was in rehab, I had to eliminate all the negative people, all the negative environment from my life, in order to straighten the path." And I feel like now that, you know, it was forced on me before, I'm not going to force it anymore on myself. And I understand that that's a difficult decision to make. I understand the ramifications are difficult, but, you know, when I try to explain it's what I need to do for me, you know, that's when I (pause), you know, feel attacked. [00:15:10] That's when I feel, "Oh, you have to go. You have to do this."
And that's where I kind of feel where I'm powerless, is because that's what got me in the problems in the first place, was people telling me I had to do stuff, people telling me there was no choice, I have to do this. You're going to do this. And I feel like that's how I've been my whole life. And it goes on even now with my personal issues with my girlfriend, where I can't do stuff unless somebody tells me to do it. And when I go and do things, people are telling me I can't and that you have to do this. And it's just to the point where I need to clean everybody out of that part of my life.
THERAPIST: What are you being told you can't do?
CLIENT: I was told—my dad said, "You can't not go to your cousin's wedding." I said, "Why not?" "Because you have to go." "Well, no. I'm not going." [00:16:19] You know, I'm very adamant about that I'm not going. I was like, I don't even want to RSVP but I'll RSVP no, because I don't want, you know, I just feel like so much has happened where I just feel like I'm getting locked on, where I do feel the powerlessness that I have inside me, that I felt I had. And every time I go to try and take control of it it gets taken away by something being thrown at me where, you know, my guilty conscience comes in and I'll end up going and my decision to be firm and to be tough and to be my own person goes away. And for me, that's very frustrating because I do feel like when I make steps forward it comes to a situation like this where I ultimately have to make a decision where if I—you know, and I feel like I'm walking on eggshells because I don't want to make the wrong decision. Even though I know it's the right decision for me it's the decision that everybody else wants to hear. [00:17:31]
And I guess what I'm trying to say it's me making those decisions, me starting to make those tough decisions is actually bettering me. It's bettering me to the point where I am becoming more independent. I am thinking on my own without having to consult with three and four and five people. I don't need approval for, you know, my own decisions. And for me, it's actually helped in my relationship with my girlfriend, where I am becoming more independent person. I am becoming, you know, the person that I feel that I want to be. I mean, I'm making so many more difficult decisions that I kind of want to pat myself on the back a little bit, because if you asked me to do this six months ago I'd be freaking out, getting all anxious and asking for a thousand ways on what to do on this instead of being proactive like I've been doing myself. [00:18:43] Doing my own homework, doing my own research, making the best decision for myself right now, what's best for me.
And honestly, that has been the hardest point of, you know, my treatment, of my recovery to being the person that I want to be, is (pause)—I think I've gotten over the anxiety of being, you know, of making decisions without having the consult people. I'm to the point now where I don't tell people what I'm doing. I only consult with my girlfriend because in order for our relationship to work, we have to talk about stuff that involves the two of us and we have to, you know, make decisions together. [00:19:41]
And, you know, before, when I first started this, is I would talk with her, make a decision with her, then I'd go talk with my parents, change my decisions after talking to my parents, and then go back and get in an argument with her because we were already on the same page and now our pages—we're separate again. And I can honestly say that through treatment I'm more and more on the one page, you know. I'm not listening to my parents anymore because they do want to do is they do want to control the situation. And when they start to do that, I honestly feel myself grabbing them and telling them, no, this is what I'm doing. And, you know, it's kind of a point where it was an emotional decision but it's not, like I talked about before where I make emotional decisions and say things out of emotions and then deal with the consequences. Well now, I've already thought about these decisions. I've made up my mind about these decisions. [00:20:58]
I have my girlfriend, who's been very supportive of me, who supports my decision, you know, that I'm making, which actually makes me feel a lot better because her support in me is, you know, one of the persons that I do, you know, care about and it is a good feeling to know that someone, you know, who's not your mother, who's not your father, who's not your brother, who's not your sister, is supporting you. And for me, outside support like that, I really haven't had. And just allowing her to support me and allowing her to be part of my decisions and part of my life. I feel it's really changing me as a man. It's changing my whole decision making. it's changing every situation that I approach. You know, I'm proceeding with caution but I'm also doing my own research, where before I'd just put it off on her or put it off on my mom and dad and listen to their feedback and listen to what they told me about this situation, about that situation, instead of doing it on my own. [00:22:19]
And that's one thing that I have learned. That's one of the techniques that I have learned in here, is that in order for you to be the person you to be and be the successful person you keep saying you want to be, you have to go get it. You have to do the grunt work, you have to do the side work. You have to go digging for answers. And I can honestly say six months ago, I wasn't that person. Six months ago, I was looking for the easy way. I was looking for someone to tell me what to do. "You need to go do this." OK, I'll go do it. "This is what you need to do and I'll get you started." Well now it's a totally different ballgame—it's me telling me I need to do this. And my girlfriend's telling me, "Well, go do it. Go do it." And then I'll ask her for help and she says, "No, this is you. This is all on you. This is your decision to go back and work with your dad and get into the family business. it's your decision to find a job [in guidance] (ph). I'm not helping you. You need to."
And, you know, just getting that tough love, as you call it, has changed me so much. It's changed the way I approach things. It's changed the ways I analyze situations. It changes my whole outlook on feeling sympathy for myself because, you know, we talk about I look so much in the future. Well, there can't be a future without the now. And if I'm looking to the future on what's going to happen in five and ten and 15 and 20 years, well I'm never going to get there if I can't live with the now. And that's the one thing that I will say my girlfriend has helped me start to understand, is that in order to get there, we need to work on here. [00:24:35] And for me, I never thought of it like that. I never thought of the importance of the here and now until now, and how much I need to focus on it and what I need to do to be a successful person.
And, you know, moving forward it's just—I'm not moving as fast as I'd like to, I'll say that. I do feel a frustration because I do catch myself thinking further ahead. But I do bring myself back to reality. I do try to calm myself down, focus my thoughts on what I can do now, what I can do from this day moving forward to get to where I want to get. And that's (pause), believe me, it's a struggle in and of itself because I, you know, the more and more I think about now the more and more anxious I get. [00:25:44] The more and more the anxiety kicks in. The more and more the old feelings kick in. And it's just it really overwhelms me, because I do get the urges, as I mentioned before, to go back to drugs, to go back to smoking, to chewing tobacco. I mean, this whole weekend when my grandmother passed, the one thing I could think about was getting up, buying a chewing tobacco.
THERAPIST: What would the chewing tobacco make you feel like?
CLIENT: Kind of relax me. For me, when I—I mean, whether it's chewing tobacco or drugs, just the comfort that I feel. I don't know what it is. I don't know if it's the nicotine, I don't know if it's the sensation of putting the tobacco in your mouth and spitting it. You know, I don't know, it's just once I put in, you know, a chew I feel like my mind just shuts down and I feel like it actually rests. [00:27:03]
THERAPIST: So what were you feeling tense about?
CLIENT: At the wake? Just knowing that the anger and the hatred that I have towards my dad's sister's family. Just knowing, you know, just knowing that they all have this emotional relationship with my grandmother that I never had. Maybe the fact of the jealousy where everything that they talk about my grandmother being—this nice, loving woman—I never saw. And not only that, but that pissed me off even more was that people were talking about how loving she was and how caring she was and how she took care of other people. But not from my view. From my view, she walked all over me and my siblings. [00:28:03] She never cared about me and my siblings. She never cared about my mom. And I don't know if these people know this or not, but from my memory of her, from my, you know, recollection of what she used to do to us, I don't have those fond memories. I don't have those happy memories. I have, you know, all negative memories. I have all memories of being beaten down, of being told that I couldn't do anything, of feeling that unworthiness. You know, not just me, my siblings.
And I guess that's why I was very angry and very tense. You know, people say it was a nervous laugh that I had this weekend. It might've been. I can't fully, you know, put a picture (inaudible at 29:08) but, you know, it was really frustrating because I just felt like I don't have this emotional connection that everybody else does. I don't see where they're seeing this side of my grandmother, because I never saw it. I never felt it. I never (pause)—I never felt like she was my grandmother. I never felt like I was her grandson. I always felt like I was a burden on her, like I was just, like, the neighbor's kids or, like, you know, my aunt's children's friend that there's no emotional attachment to. There's no nothing, you know, and maybe it's to the point where—I don't know. It was not a good time. It wasn't a good time, you know. [00:30:15]
And, you know, I forgot about the time where I was a freshman in high school and my house burned down and we ended up living at my grandmother's house.
THERAPIST: How did it burn down?
CLIENT: There was a back draft in the boiler room and a piece of lint caught on fire. And we had clothes in the boiler room and it just caught the clothes and sparked everything. And, you know, we lived at my grandmother's house for a year while we were redoing the house. And I told, you know, when my best friend came to the wake he remembers being there and I don't have recollection of this. I forgot all about living there for the whole year. I forgot about what it was like. Like, I remember we had to live there, but I don't remember spending any quality time with my grandmother, spending any, you know, decent time with her. I really don't remember it (ph). [00:31:24] And I don't know if it's because I forgot or if it's because (pause) there was there that stood out that, you know, she did love me, she did care about me, or my siblings, you know. Even when we lived there, you know, from what my sister said, I think it was a burden on my grandmother. She didn't want us there, you know. We felt like we were intruding in her house. And then you go and get my cousin, who's living there without her there and then she felt like it wasn't her home.
It was just a real struggle for me and it's just something that I know I'll get over with time, but the best thing for me to do is to avoid. [00:32:24] And I don't know why I do it, but like I mentioned earlier that's how I deal with stressful situations, with people who I don't really trust, with people who've already screwed me over. The best thing I do—and eventually, will I let them do it? Will I forgive them? I don't know. It's to the point where, you know, the healing starts now. So, you know, when my grandmother was live, I always saw them—I never really fully got to start the healing process for myself of just avoiding, you know, those situations, those environments, you know. Because when I was in rehab and when I did all those things, when I avoided those people for a number of years it was only, you know, a couple years ago where I could finally talk to them again and finally explain to them why I had to do what I did, why I cut myself off from you. [00:33:36]
And for me, that was the best thing ever, was getting that off of my chest, because it did kill me when I told my best friends why I was avoiding you, why I couldn't talk to. You know, it's not that I wanted to, because I didn't. I tell them I needed to. I had to get away from, you know, the environment we were in. I had to get away from the position I kept putting myself into, even with the temptation. Even with everything going on, I go, for me I can't have any temptation there, because as soon as I get uncomfortable if there's a temptation there and I'm really uncomfortable, I may run to it. I may go back to it. And that's the one thing that scares me to death, is being a recovering drug addict is I fight the addiction every day. I fight it with it cigarettes, I fight it with chewing tobacco, I fight it with alcohol, I fight it with marijuana. And I don't know why, but that's just how I've been since I can remember. [00:34:58]
THERAPIST: Well what are you fighting within yourself that would drive you to want to use those?
CLIENT: (pause) Acceptance, being able to be accepted for who I am. Being able to accept myself. There's a lot of times where I don't, you know, like where I am in my life. I don't like a lot about myself and that still does bother me to this day.
THERAPIST: What don't you like about yourself?
CLIENT: I've always been overweight. I've always been told that I was fat. I've always, you know, been told I couldn't do this, been told I couldn't do that. I've always been told that, you know, being an obese child, you know, really has affected me as an adult, because I've tried so hard to not (pause)—to control my eating, to my control my weight. [00:36:12] I've gone up and I've gone down. And for me, it's just really difficult to do that. It's really I'm fighting two addictions, because when I get depressed or when I, you know, or sad (ph) I want to turn to drugs. Or when I don't turn to drugs and turn to any of the other things, I want to turn to food. So in reality, I'm fighting a drug addiction and a food addiction. And there's times where I feel I can't win for losing. And just being, you know, called every name in the book before, you know, really took a toll on me. You know, I didn't have the support back when I was a kid, even from my parents.
THERAPIST: Would they call you fat too? 
CLIENT: No. But they wouldn't pull the chips away from me. They wouldn't pull the soda away from me. You know, they would—even to this day now, like, when I go to my parents' house, there's always chocolate, there's always potato chips, there's always garbage there, you know. [00:37:34] And this weekend, it's just like I never saw food before because when I'm with my girlfriend, I'm on a routine. I eat healthy, I exercise, I do make the right choices. This weekend when my grandmother died, I saw all this good food and it was like I never ate before. And then I feel sick because I don't want to eat like that. And then I feel bad the next day because I did eat all that garbage, I did eat all that, you know, junk that I didn't need, after I'd been working so hard to get to where I wanted to be and starting to change that phase. Here I go back and it's there again. It's like a vicious cycle that I've had to struggle with since I can remember. [00:38:31]
I mean, and the only images that I have in my head is, you know, my grandmother telling my girlfriend she's not good enough for me because I'm a fat slob. And when she told me that I was like, "No, she didn't say that." And she's like, "Yeah, she did." And then she grabbed me and goes, "You need to lose weight or she's going to leave you. She doesn't want to be with a fat man." And for me that was hurtful, you know, that hurt me an awful lot.
THERAPIST: I think that would hurt a lot of people.
CLIENT: You know, and I kind of played it off as a joke and I played it off, but every time, you know, we interacted with grandmother, she'd see me and she'd see my girlfriend. And she'd tell her, "You have to get him on a diet. You have to get him on a diet." And that was very bothersome to me because I understand I have a weight problem. I've known I've had a weight problem. You know, people don't know that I've a drug problem but they know I have a weight problem because I can't hide the weight problem. I can hide the drugs—I can't hide the weight. [00:39:54]
And I guess that's, you know, part of the depression that I've been living with since I was a kid, is I never really had the support being, you know, overweight, of what I could do to help myself out.
THERAPIST: So you're saying you don't feel like your parents were helping you either?
CLIENT: No, I feel like I was left on my own, you know, and I feel like I've just been beaten up and beaten up. And every time I feel like I'm starting to heal from being beaten up, I get beat up even more. And I feel like it's just a vicious cycle where I just, you know, I feel I can't really recover from the wounds that I already, you know, have. That keep opening. That people, you know, they may not think it does, but it's just a jab here and a jab there and boom, you know, the wound's even deeper than it was before. [00:41:01]
And that bothers me, because I'm trying so hard to work on one thing, but I have 700 other things that I also need to work on. And that's when the anxiety and that's when the stress and that's when, you know, the urge to eat something or to take a drug comes in. Because they won't say that to me. They won't say, "You know, Jordan, you're fat. Don't eat meat." They won't say, "Jordan, this is bad for you. It can kill you. (inaudible at 41:43)." They won't say that. You know, I'll take it and do my own thing. And I'll take it and I'll be comfortable with that at that moment, for whatever amount of time. And then after I have time to reflect on it and analyze the decision that I made, then I feel even more depressed, even more worse, because I did something that I know I couldn't have done. I shouldn't have done. Why did I do that? I know better than that, but yet I still chose to do it.
That bothers me a lot. It bothers me a real lot. And it's something that I've been fighting with for a very long time. [00:42:45] And it's something that, you know, every time I think I have a hold of it, every time I think I can control it, every time I think, you know, nothing's going to, you know, get in my way, I have a good mindset, boom, I get knocked back down. I get knocked back down and then (pause) I get frustrated because I have to do it all over again to get back up to where I was.
THERAPIST: You know Jordan, we're going to need to stop for today, OK? So, we'll pick this up in two weeks, OK? Is that good?
CLIENT: Perfect. Thank you very much.
THERAPIST: Thank you.
CLIENT: Thank you.
THERAPIST: Take care.
CLIENT: All right, we'll see you.
THERAPIST: Have a good trip, OK?
CLIENT: Thank you.
END TRANSCRIPT
