TRANSCRIPT OF AUDIO FILE:
______________________________________________________________________________
BEGIN TRANSCRIPT:
THERAPIST: Hi, how are you?
CLIENT: Good, how are you? I thought that was an animal.
THERAPIST: Oh, there's a...
CLIENT: An owl.
THERAPIST: ...an owl. But I think they're also...
CLIENT: I didn't...
THERAPIST: I've got to fill it out, yes.
CLIENT: Yes.
THERAPIST: I'll let you take a moment.
CLIENT: Okay.
THERAPIST: A pencil and do you want (inaudible at 0:00:15.7)
CLIENT: I just didn't have...
THERAPIST: Her paperwork.
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: We run out some times.
CLIENT: What's today's date, the 27th; the 28th?
THERAPIST: Let me check. Yeah, the 28th.
CLIENT: Okay.
(PERIOD OF SILENCE - 0:00:41.8 to 0:03:11.8)
THERAPIST: Okay, so how are you feeling, better now?
CLIENT: Yeah, I actually - I think I'm just getting over a cold. I don't know - because over the weekend I was like in bed most of the weekend. But besides that I didn't - like this week has been pretty much fine. I just was resting.
THERAPIST: So what happened on Friday? It was like stomach issues?
CLIENT: Yeah, I started getting a stomach ache and then when I went home I went bed. And - because I left school a little bit early so I took a nap and then I - when I woke up I had a headache and I don't know - maybe I was just getting a head cold.
THERAPIST: Okay. So it wasn't like anything...
CLIENT: Yeah, I think...
THERAPIST: ...probably nerve related?
CLIENT: I was up late the night before so maybe because I was getting a cold, that wasn't the greatest thing.
THERAPIST: Yeah - no, I had a stomach issues yesterday as well. [0:04:00.6]
CLIENT: Yeah, so.
THERAPIST: I think something is just going around.
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: So you did complete your homework kind of, right.
CLIENT: Kind of. It was very unexpected but, we ended up just at - not just us two, but he came over with my roommate's boyfriend and we all just watched the game and hung out.
THERAPIST: Did you - had you texted him to come over?
CLIENT: I had asked him what he was doing for the game but...
THERAPIST: In person?
CLIENT: No, text.
THERAPIST: You texted him?
CLIENT: And then it always happens where I won't even know and like he'll be coming over - like I don't know, my roommate's boyfriend, I'll talk to him or something. So he just ended up coming over.
THERAPIST: Okay. So do you think he invited your roommate's boyfriend or it was just like everyone was talking and oh, I'm going over to Catherine's; want to come?
CLIENT: It could have been, I don't really know so...
THERAPIST: Well how did it go? Was it...
CLIENT: It was fine.
THERAPIST: ...just normal? [0:04:57.5]
CLIENT: It was regular like normal but, it was actually good because we have been talking a lot more through texting even other days, like mostly on the weekends I feel like. But we've been actually just talking to talk I guess.
THERAPIST: Yeah.
CLIENT: So I thought it was going to be weird because like really we don't ever do that. But everything was fine and fun and like friends but not like anything was awkward or anything. Like I don't know, we were getting along.
Because it's always like them too, obviously hanging out so we are always hanging out.
THERAPIST: So is it usually the four of you or is there usually other people are involved?
CLIENT: It's usually the four of us and then maybe this one other kid that them three are like best friends.
THERAPIST: So would you like to make it progress any further?
CLIENT: I don't know. Like...
THERAPIST: If nerves were not involved?
CLIENT: I've been very frustrated because I feel like he doesn't do - like he doesn't make any effort - not no effort. I guess like he's just so shy so I've been like talking to my roommate a lot about it.
And I'm like I just can't deal with it because I'm like that. So I don't know if that's going to drive me crazy but...
THERAPIST: What did she say?
CLIENT: She thinks that he feels like he shouldn't ever try to tell me how he feels or anything or like go that way again because over the summer...
THERAPIST: Because he had gotten out of his (inaudible at 0:06:19.3) done that. And what did you say when he said that?
CLIENT: I don't even remember. See I didn't think about that situation until my roommate brought it up like two weeks ago. And I was like oh, okay, I guess I see it from his perspective.
THERAPIST: That he already made the move and...
CLIENT: Yeah, because it was very - like I don't know, subtle but I guess I understand. Like for him to actually tell me that like he did like me like for a while or whatever.
And I don't even remember what I said but I was just very - at that point I was like not really - I didn't even think about it so I was surprised I guess.
THERAPIST: And you didn't think about it afterwards are...
CLIENT: I guess I did. I went away like right after I feel like that situation. And then end of the summer I feel like I didn't see him at all. And then we started talking again recently - like talking more recently. [0:07:11.0]
We always see each other but it kind of faded away. He probably thought...
THERAPIST: That you weren't interested.
CLIENT: Yeah, that's what my roommate kind of like reminded me. Like don't you remember what happened? Like he was like shot down like so.
THERAPIST: So how would you show him that you're interested?
CLIENT: I don't know. I don't - because I feel like I've been talking to him more. Like I don't know, I'm like...
THERAPIST: So that's your way you think of showing them that you're talking to him more, you're texting him more.
CLIENT: I guess. Like I don't know what else to do.
THERAPIST: Well you know it's funny because I think like he kind of already made the grand gesture, you know. He went out and told you - maybe it wasn't as grand as it could have been. Because you were kind of like, oh, all right, whatever.
But I mean it could be your turn to be brave.
CLIENT: Yeah. I guess like maybe next - like if we hang out or something this weekend just spending more time just us two talking. [0:08:08.2]
Because we do all hang out. And I feel like since at that time in the summer we started us four going out. And like they would go off on their own and we'd just hang out at like bars or something.
And we would just like end up talking so I feel like maybe like just starting to do that again, like hang out when him more than just the group.
THERAPIST: Well when you were hanging out like you were watching the game right, on Thursday?
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: So it was the four of you. Were you sitting next to him?
CLIENT: Part of it - part of the game because like we have two loveseats and one recliner. So usually if there's like five people I always end up sitting next to him.
But this time I think at one point I was sitting next to him and then like one of us got up. And then - but we were like at some point sitting next to each other.
THERAPIST: Okay. And is there ever any touching or like...
CLIENT: There wasn't. Like he's very - like I don't even - most other guys I feel like I'm used to, if they like you they'll like be a little bit more forward or at least that what I've - I'm used to.
So with him he's very - it's respectful. Like it's not like - but it's, I don't know.
THERAPIST: You know it...
CLIENT: He keeps his like distance.
THERAPIST: But also some people, especially someone who's nervous as well and who has potentially in their mind been shot down, you know, might be reading signs differently. Like it's also probably signs that you're giving off, like what is your body language when you're sitting? Are you like this?
CLIENT: Well my roommate told me that I - I know. My roommate told me that I have to just be nicer in general because she says that like I'm very, especially with guys I guess, like I'm able to speak my mind because like I'm very like - Okay, I'm done.
Like I don't know, if I don't want to talk to you or if you're like - I don't know. I guess just - she told me to be nicer in general because like, I don't know. [0:09:57.6]
THERAPIST: Why would - so does that sound like she perceives you to not being as nice to Brendan as you are to like other people maybe?
CLIENT: I think, yeah. I think just - or just I treat him like one of my other guy friends. She kind of puts it like that.
Like not to treat him just like one of the other guys and like be a little bit more nice. Be a little bit more, you know, flirty or something. Like don't be just (inaudible at 0:10:25.5).
THERAPIST: Is that hard for you?
CLIENT: I don't know. I didn't really think about it much. I guess I've been trying to be nicer and stuff.
THERAPIST: And also it sounds like you've kind of put guys and flirting on the back burner for a while now, right?
CLIENT: Yeah, I really have.
THERAPIST: So like maybe you haven't had that much practice.
CLIENT: Yeah, I don't like know the last time like I really have flirted with a guy.
THERAPIST: So I want to talk I guess about body language. Like if you're sitting next to someone you know, what - do you tend to - sometimes when people are nervous they tend to sit like this with their, you know, arms crossed.
Do you feel like you do that ever?
CLIENT: I don't think I ever cross my arms because I know that that's very noticeable that like you're uncomfortable.
THERAPIST: And also that you're keeping your own space, you know. You don't want to...
CLIENT: But I definitely know that I'm very conscious when he is sitting next to me versus when he's sitting like on the other seat. Like I'm very like, okay like I know what I'm doing.
Like when he's sitting across from me I'm just whatever. I like...
THERAPIST: Do you hug hello when you see him or no? Are you just like, hi?
CLIENT: Sometimes I feel like - not all the time but sometimes it doesn't matter.
THERAPIST: So sometimes that could be something that you initiate more.
CLIENT: That's true, I didn't about that.
THERAPIST: I think when people - like if you liked a guy and he was going out of his way to hug you more, you'd probably notice it wouldn't you?
CLIENT: Yeah, because I guess in the beginning like I kind of - like certain times like I wouldn't go and hug them hello like when him and his other closest friend would come over. Because like I don't know, I was always like they're just our friends, like whatever. Like they're here all the time.
And like with the other guy friends that we're all friends with, I always kiss hello. So I always think like they probably look at that like, you don't kiss us hello. [0:12:02.6]
THERAPIST: When also making an effort to him, it's probably in your effort to kind of withdraw from the situation, you know, after the summer.
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: You know I think you need to - if this is something that you want to make a, you know, effort you need to fight for the things that you want right, or you could lose the opportunity.
CLIENT: Yeah. I feel like I just, I don't know. Like I don't know what I want so I just would like to know.
THERAPIST: Well you would like the opportunity to figure it out.
CLIENT: Yeah, because I feel like we don't - we still don't talk enough. We don't - because we both have our, I feel like, our reserves about it. Like we're both nervous somewhat.
THERAPIST: So what about sending - since I know text is your favorite form of communication and it's like a non - anxiety...
CLIENT: I actually don't like texting but I just don't like using the phone in general so that's why.
THERAPIST: Okay. So what about, you know, doing something with the text and saying - are the Cubs out? I don't watch baseball really or are they still in? [0:12:57.7]
CLIENT: Yeah, Cubs are in.
THERAPIST: How do I know not know this. Okay, so it's today. And who's the Cubs and who?
CLIENT: Red Sox.
THERAPIST: Phillies - how do I not know that, I feel so terrible, sorry. Okay, so Cubs/Red Sox. So you're going to be watching a lot of games together. But I assume it will probably be more groups?
CLIENT: I'm not sure. Today I'm going to my brother's to watch it only because he said he'd make dinner. But normally it's really just me, my roommate, her boyfriend, and him - Brendan.
THERAPIST: Would there be any way for you to say, let's watch the game just me and you?
CLIENT: I'm not sure when the next game is but normally like I guess I could do that easily because by roommate is always at work and his - her boyfriends always at work until like late. So we always all just meet up when they get up.
THERAPIST: Yeah, so you could say, "Yeah, everyone is going to be at work, do you want to watch the game just with me?" That way it doesn't sound...[0:13:56.0]
CLIENT: Yeah, and maybe invite him over or something. Because I feel like if I know that I will see them later...
THERAPIST: It will be...
CLIENT: ...that will be a little bit easier for like the first...
THERAPIST: And you'll have that time to talk first just on your own and see how that is. And if there's more chemistry and I think emphasizing like just me and you or something will give him...
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: ...a little bit of a clue because sounds like he's pretty clueless.
CLIENT: I actually did tell him this past weekend because I was very frustrated then they - actually Saturday night my roommate like she was like oh, invite Brendan over.
Like Heather is going to come over and we'll watch a movie, because I wasn't really feeling good. And I started talking to him but...
THERAPIST: On text or phone or...
CLIENT: On text. And then later that night I said something like, oh, you should come over. And he said - like he was in Oak Park or something and he was hanging out there. And I feel like he never leaves Oak Park.
So I said like, oh next weekend maybe you should come over here and hang out or something. So kind of - but not like just me and you.
THERAPIST: And you planted the seed and what did he say to that? [0:15:00.9]
CLIENT: I think he said like yeah, that would be nice or like that sounds good - something like that. So I could bring that up again, I guess?
THERAPIST: But I think emphasizing that your plan is to - like, we never got to talk like so it will be a chance for us to hang out or something, you know what I mean?
To emphasize that it's important for you and him to do something together.
CLIENT: I feel like I'm getting - like the more we talk about it, a little bit more comfortable.
THERAPIST: The more - you mean when you talk about it?
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: Okay.
CLIENT: Just because like I've been friends with him for like ever I feel - not forever, for two years and we always see each other like every week. So I really shouldn't be that nervous.
THERAPIST: I mean it's always hard when things change, you know, the relationship changes. I don't know if the past - like you had a boyfriend in high school. Was he a friend first or...
CLIENT: I think - I had like two boyfriends in high school. One was a friend first and then the other wasn't ever.
THERAPIST: Ideally what I keep seeing - what I'd like to see is just for you to meet somebody and go on a date. Like have a crazy night.
I'm not saying like go have sex (LAUGHING) (inaudible at 0:16:08.2) people but to get that practice in. It's not the end of the world even if there is slight rejection or even if there is uncomfortableness, you know.
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: I think more than what you - dealing with your rejection would be hard for you dealing with the uncomfortableness.
CLIENT: Yeah, I think just in the situation.
THERAPIST: Kind of not knowing what people think.
CLIENT: Because once I'm out of the situation I'm fine. Like I don't really think about it as much or over-analyze it.
THERAPIST: But since there is someone that you're interested this is, you know - this is something that I don't think that - I think this is excellent practice for you.
So what do you think your homework should be?
CLIENT: I guess to try to hang out with him one-on-one and like have it just be - not be like an uncomfortable silence the whole time watching the game. Because then I feel like the next time I'd be more nervous.
But just like hanging out?
THERAPIST: I mean you could get beers; you could get whatever, I don't know. Do you like drinking beer?
CLIENT: Yeah, sometimes.
THERAPIST: You could have some food, you know. But the homework for me; the key component is for you to make the effort, you know.
CLIENT: To initiate.
THERAPIST: To initiate it and to have some time of specification that it's just going to be the two of you.
CLIENT: Okay. I think I'm going to try to set that up.
THERAPIST: I'm going to ask to see the text this time.
CLIENT: Okay, I'll make sure I have it.
THERAPIST: did you want to do a makeup this Friday? Because we could just let it go at this point.
CLIENT: I actually - yeah, that's fine; this Friday is good with me. And I actually wanted to know if you had any openings on Thursdays. I know that...
THERAPIST: Oh, instead of doing Wednesday morning?
CLIENT: Yeah. If - or I don't know.
THERAPIST: I might. Hold on I have to think.
CLIENT: Or any other days because I'm trying to think of maybe a day that I'm here already.
THERAPIST: So you go Thursdays?
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: On Fridays or just Thursdays?
CLIENT: Thursdays and Fridays.
THERAPIST: Fridays there are openings. [0:18:00.6]
CLIENT: Okay because Friday I know I'm in class most of the day but I have a break and then I'm off at five.
THERAPIST: Would you be able to be here at five, right?
CLIENT: I've been getting here at five because I've been leaving class like a few minutes early. But if it's every Friday I wouldn't be able to get here at five.
THERAPIST: Because I have an ongoing appointment at six, but they are often switching the time. So I don't know if they would like to switch it permanently. But I need to know from them because they can't - like they are like, oh this week three, this week four.
CLIENT: Well I figured I'd just...
THERAPIST: When does class start?
CLIENT: Nine forty-five.
THERAPIST: And then you have...
CLIENT: Nine forty-five until 12:30, and then from 12:30 to 2:10.
THERAPIST: You have a class?
CLIENT: I'm off from - but I thought - I don't think you...
THERAPIST: I don't start until three here.
CLIENT: Oh, okay.
THERAPIST: So do you have a class at three?
CLIENT: Yeah. So it would be after that.
THERAPIST: Because at this time I have an opening probably like at three, four, and five.
CLIENT: Oh, so that's - all right.
THERAPIST: If you want I mean - I'm just trying to think. If you could get here - do you think you could get here by 5:15?
CLIENT: Oh yeah.
THERAPIST: And I could just do...
CLIENT: I'm right at (inaudible at 0:19:11.9]
THERAPIST: Because generally the appointments are 45 minutes long and usually I try to end 15 minutes early.
CLIENT: I can get here at like 5:05.
THERAPIST: Yeah, that would be fine. You want to do that?
CLIENT: Okay.
THERAPIST: Let me write that down.
CLIENT: Are you sure that's good?
THERAPIST: Yeah, that'll be fine, Thursday at five. That's going to be a busy day so - I mean Friday at five.
CLIENT: I was just going to say wait, was that Thursday or Friday?
THERAPIST: Yeah, I was like wait. I have a full a schedule on...
(CROSSTALK)
Okay, Friday at five, that should be fine.
CLIENT: Okay.
THERAPIST: Is there anything else - so the homework is I want to see like a direct communication, you know, saying - an invitation in advance.
CLIENT: All right, in advance.
THERAPIST: Yeah, that's cute. Not just the night of, in advance saying that, you know, and specify that it's just going to be you two.
CLIENT: Okay. Because I feel like I always ask him to hang out when we're all already hanging out. And he's always like, well I'm already out.
THERAPIST: And he probably also doesn't - like, you know, he takes it as oh, I'm just a last resort, you know.
CLIENT: That's true.
THERAPIST: Like what would you think if I like only called you like at eight o'clock every night?
CLIENT: Oh, I'd probably be you should call me earlier. Because I think he did that one night and I was like to my roommate, he could have called me earlier next time.
THERAPIST: yeah, exactly. You're like oh, it doesn't mean very much if he's just calling last minute. He's calling because he has nothing to do.
But I mean I think if you made plans what is it today, it's Wednesday?
CLIENT: It's Wednesday.
THERAPIST: And the game starts...
CLIENT: There's a game tonight and then I don't know when the next game is.
THERAPIST: Okay, but there should be one over the weekend, right?
CLIENT: Yeah, either Thursday or Friday I'm sure.
THERAPIST: (inaudible at 0:20:57.4) find out when it's going to be and give at least a couple of days advance. That means that you've been thinking about it.
CLIENT: Yeah, that's true.
THERAPIST: And that would be something that you would like to do.
CLIENT: I think he'd be surprised.
THERAPIST: I think it would probably mean a lot to him. And if you are looking for him to make that move, can you understand how he wouldn't be ready to make that move. The same think that you don't have an interest? [0:21:19.0]
CLIENT: Yeah, once my roommate kind of refreshed my memory of the situation over the summer, I was like okay, like I see your point. Because I had not forgotten but I just didn't really think about it.
THERAPIST: and I think sometimes people, you know, who have anxiety and are thinking all the time what other people are thinking of them, perhaps you don't spend enough time thinking about what other people are thinking, you know?
CLIENT: That's true.
THERAPIST: Not that it's selfish but almost in a way because you're seeing the world always from your view.
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: And because you're so concerned over the concern with this, then taking the time to see how - you know, it probably did hurt his feelings.
He might have been very upset about that.
CLIENT: I know. Once she told - Well once we talked about it like I felt so bad. I was like thank you for telling me what happened.
THERAPIST: Because all the moves that you make right now are to benefit yourself. Okay, well I'm going to do it last minute because it's going to make me more comfortable.
Well I'm going to do whatever else because that will make me more comfortable.
CLIENT: That's true.
THERAPIST: But, you know, now you can make moves now that you're aware of it that will make him realize or make him more comfortable or him realize, maybe uncomfortable but realize that you have an interest.
CLIENT: Okay, I guess that's...
THERAPIST: Because you've been making these defensive moves instead of like offensive moves.
CLIENT: Yeah, I could see that.
THERAPIST: So I think that would be a (inaudible at 0:22:32.8). I want to see that in text.
CLIENT: Okay.
THERAPIST: I can even give you my phone number and you can forward the text to me. But I think that would be good.
CLIENT: Okay.
THERAPIST: Is there anything else coming up this week that...
CLIENT: Not - I had a History exam yesterday that was an essay question and I really think I failed. So I have to talk to my teacher because we only have that, a paper, and our final.
And I'm very nervous about - like I really think I did horrible on this exam and I went in so confident. I was almost like crying yesterday because of it. [0:23:09.3]
THERAPIST: You took it yesterday?
CLIENT: Yeah, so I'm very - I want to talk to him but I don't...
THERAPIST: Why did you think that you failed? Did you like just had nothing to write or...
CLIENT: That's what I felt like I got it and then I was like okay, this isn't what I studied. This isn't what I thought it was going to be on, and especially with an essay question.
He gave us two and...
THERAPIST: Was that the whole test or there were multiple choice.
CLIENT: That was the whole test.
THERAPIST: It was the whole test, two essay questions.
CLIENT: And that's how our final is and then we have a paper.
THERAPIST: So this is the mid-term, then we have final, and then maybe a paper?
CLIENT: Yeah, and that's all he grades it on so I'm very - like my roommate said I should just go up and talk to him. And I just don't know if like sorry, I wasn't fully prepared, I guess I thought I was. Like I don't know what to say.
THERAPIST: Well you can just - okay, so you're going to kind of go off apologizing. You would say from the beginning like, I wanted to talk to you about your paper.
I'm very concerned that I did not perform well but I had worked really hard. Is there any way you can let me know, you know, something extra that I can do.
Do you - have you ever done that for a class before?
CLIENT: Yeah, I feel like some teacher now though like in college, they're like oh no. Like I'm not giving like extra so it's - that's why I'm very nervous because he only has these two exams and the paper.
So if I fail one or for some reason like.
THERAPIST: Okay, so you could say - I mean the worse thing he can say is say no, I don't really do that. Is he a nice professor?
CLIENT: See I always liked him. And then last time it was like I hate this.
(LAUGHING)
THERAPIST: Okay, so...
CLIENT: He's nice. He's an older man, like he's really nice.
THERAPIST: So he's - he'll be understanding.
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: So you know you can say, I'm, you know, really concerned about my performance. Is there - he might say let's wait and see because he probably hasn't graded it yet.
You know if it's a curve, you know, who knows, everybody could have bombed it right, and had no idea what he was talking about. Did you talk to anyone else in the class? [0:25:04.6]
CLIENT: Well before everyone was so nervous, I was nervous too. And then we started talking about it.
He had hinted that this one person in History and this one specific - two different things what might be on it from one book that we had to read along with our textbook so we all thought that would be one of the questions.
So we were all quizzing each other and I felt like I knew like the history of this man and like I was helping everyone else out in the class.
And then we get the thing and none of the questions - everyone kind of just looked at it because none of the questions are about what we thought.
THERAPIST: So a lot of people are going to have this issue with the question, right?
CLIENT: I don't know. I felt like I just froze and didn't know what to write. So I don't even - I don't know.
THERAPIST: Because you felt like kind of unprepared basically?
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: Normally you would go in feeling mostly prepared. See I think the best thing is just, you know, to say the truth. Say like, I guess I had been studying the wrong, you know, other material. That this is what I thought was going to be on it. What can I do to improve it?
Is there any way I can work with you before the next one. And you could say that I could come in before the next one to make sure that I'm going to be prepared for...
CLIENT: Right. I want to be like can you like this time not hint that something is going to be on the exam that's not and especially since there's two questions.
THERAPIST: That probably won't go very well.
(LAUGHING).
CLIENT: last night I was like thinking of every scenario and I was like, I'm never going to say this to him. But I would love to tell him - I don't know.
THERAPIST: So I think, you know, the best way is just to be open-minded, not to - I mean I can't imagine you going in and attacking him.
CLIENT: No.
(LAUGHING)
THERAPIST: But just saying whatever I can do to make a difference. He probably hasn't graded it yet. Sometimes I think in this situation it's not always as bad as you think it's going to be.
CLIENT: I don't even want to ask him because I don't even want to see my grade. Like I don't want him to be like yeah, here's your F.
THERAPIST: You know and you could always say, you know, this - you know, I'm really a conscientious student. Have you ever had him before?
CLIENT: No.
THERAPIST: You know I'm really a conscientious student. I really want to do well so like is there anything else I can do to bring up my grade?
CLIENT: That's another thing. Like it's a general requirement course, I guess just a general course that like I was just taking to get that done and out of the way. [0:27:15.8]
It's an American History and I'm like oh my god.
THERAPIST: That sucks when - obviously it wasn't something that you thought was going to be one of your harder classes.
CLIENT: Yeah. And like I took my Ecology exam the other day and I was so much more nervous but I think I do so much better on that one.
THERAPIST: Well maybe also the problem with this one was because you were feeling overly confident so that you only did study. You know, it's a lesson like that just study everything because you never really know.
But I think you can let him know that. Just I think just going in and meeting the professor is usually...
CLIENT: (inaudible at 0:27:51.3).
THERAPIST: I know, it's not the most comfortable thing. But once they know your face I feel like they're less likely to fail you.
CLIENT: Yeah, that's true.
THERAPIST: Do you know what I mean? If you're always knocking on their door or sending them an e-mail...
CLIENT: I keep trying to think if I pass the final he can't fail me. But they still can I know, but I'm just hoping.
THERAPIST: But really the more they see you the more they'll know that this person is committed. And also if you could get - I don't know how much sway you have over your friends, but if you're not the only person who did terrible on this and you bring up the idea of an extra - he might already have that idea in mind if everyone did terrible.
CLIENT: I'm sure he'll know the grade.
THERAPIST: Yeah. And if you get like all your other friends to say - oh e-mail and say is there something else we could do, you know, he might give another assignment.
CLIENT: I feel like he's just stuck in his ways. Like I don't think he - like I don't know if he will but I'm hoping.
THERAPIST: Or it's no harm in asking.
CLIENT: Yeah, I guess not. I guess I'm just more afraid of him just handing me like - or being like, well you did horrible.
THERAPIST: Whenever this kind of happens in my past, you know, when this happened to me, I usually e-mail like right away and I think...
CLIENT: He doesn't have an e-mail.
THERAPIST: Okay, so go see him as soon as possible which would be...
CLIENT: He's so old.
THERAPIST: So see him as soon as possible. Can you see him tomorrow?
CLIENT: I think he has office hours. I have class tomorrow evening with him and I think he has office hours which I was going to try and go to.
Because I'm also nervous - I don't want him to be like - even though I doubt he'd be like, well look, this is what you got. I don't want him to, you know, talk about it or just talk about with him in front of the class. I'd rather do it in his office.
THERAPIST: Yeah, of course. I think that that's the more appropriate place to do it anyway. And then you can voice your concerns and ask if there's anything you can do. [0:29:33.3]
CLIENT: I'm just hoping at least maybe for the final he'll give a little bit - maybe at least a guideline or at least a direction.
THERAPIST: Yeah, it would be like I was just a little lost. You know, I mean you can ask that for the future. I mean I don't think teachers want to see their students fail. Especially if this guy seems like a nice guy.
CLIENT: He seems like a nice guy but I don't know if he wants to change at all.
THERAPIST: Is this going to be difficult for you to go in and talk about this?
CLIENT: That's what I'm very nervous about but I think - I mean I'm going to have class tomorrow evening anyway so I think that's kind of going to make me do it.
THERAPIST: Okay good. And I think that, you know, to go in knowing that he doesn't have to agree with what you said, right? And if he doesn't you'll be fine still, right?
CLIENT: Yeah, I'm just.
THERAPIST: Talking to him can only make it better I think. Or do you think it can make it worse?
CLIENT: I guess it would make it better. I'm just - I don't know. I just feel like he's going to have a negative reaction even though highly doubt that. I just feel the fear.
THERAPIST: And even if he does he'll know your name, right? He'll know who you are.
CLIENT: I don't want him to be like oh, you are the one that did horrible on the mid-term.
THERAPIST: Do you though really think that you did the worst in the entire class on this I think?
CLIENT: Probably not.
THERAPIST: There's probably those kids that haven't read any books.
CLIENT: I know there was one girl who didn't even know - like didn't even read one of the books. So I guess...
THERAPIST: Right, so you do the worst.
CLIENT: Yeah, there's always people...
THERAPIST: You tried your hardest and now you're being - I think most professors go in to it to like have student interactions, you know. To inspire students and to teach and things like that. [0:31:11.3]
And they are always waiting for students to come and knock on the door and ask questions.
CLIENT: Even right before the exam I was talking to him about stuff that I was studying and when I got out I was like, he couldn't have been like nothing on your review sheet is in any of the questions.
THERAPIST: So now you know he's going to be unclear and you probably just need to study everything next time, even if he says something in particular.
CLIENT: I think he just expects that everyone knows everything and gets it at least.
THERAPIST: Probably.
CLIENT: I don't know.
THERAPIST: Now you know and you can always offer. And usually the way it works I think in college is that they're not going to give one person an opportunity to do an extra credit assignment that, you know, you say is there one you can offer to the class to do? I know other people have concerns.
And usually that's fair. I mean it's not fair maybe to give you an assignment and say okay, you can do this and get extra points. But say offer it up to the entire class and you can make that...
CLIENT: That's a good idea.
THERAPIST: And (inaudible at 0:32:07.0) and say you know, other people were concerned about their grades.
CLIENT: I just would like more grades and - because I'm like I feel like every class this semester that we have like three grades maybe and that's about it.
THERAPIST: Yeah, and that has its pros and its cons but...
CLIENT: Yeah, it depends. I feel like if like my Animal Behavior course, she has the exam set up where it's short essay questions, multiple choice and fill-in. So I feel like that gives you a range.
And then - but just to give one essay, I don't know.
THERAPIST: That's pretty hard. I haven't had one of those in a while.
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: But you know what, you survived it, right?
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: You're having some anxiety - you didn't run out of it.
CLIENT: No, but I wanted to. Like I read it - and one kid like his paper flew in the air on accident. We all kind of looked and laughed but I wanted to like...
THERAPIST: Run, but you didn't. You stood it. You must have been practicing rational statements, right?
If you were completely rational you would have run out of there.
CLIENT: That's true. The door was right in front of me.
THERAPIST: Yeah, so you stood it. I think you can stand to deal in uncomfortableness too. Keep your (inaudible at 0:33:07.9) out there, right?
CLIENT: Yeah, nothing's worse than essays.
THERAPIST: Okay. So I want to hear a number of plans beforehand. So it should be like as soon as you check the Google maybe by the end of today?
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: Yeah?
CLIENT: I'll check it tonight.
THERAPIST: And that, you know, an indication that it's going to be the two of you.
CLIENT: Okay. I have to remember to add that.
THERAPIST: Okay.
CLIENT: And I'm seeing you Friday?
THERAPIST: Yeah, I'll put it in the book, Friday at five o'clock.
CLIENT: Okay.
THERAPIST: And I'll call you on Thursday to make sure or something, okay.
CLIENT: Okay.
THERAPIST: Thanks Catherine.
CLIENT: Thank you.
THERAPIST: Awesome. I think you're doing great.
CLIENT: Thank you. Have a nice day.
THERAPIST: See you soon. You too.
CLIENT: I'll see you Friday.
THERAPIST: Stay dry.
CLIENT: I'll try. Bye bye.
END TRANSCRIPT
