Transcript of Audio File:
______________________________________________________________________________
BEGIN TRANSCRIPT:
THERAPIST: So where should we start?
CLIENT: Where should we start? Okay, so I was thinking a lot about what we were talking about last week, the whole being afraid to flirt or whatever. But I think I realized it's not just "Oh, this is bad" or whatever. I think a lot of it has to do with the way that I feel about my body, which is hard to talk about. Like really hard to talk about. I hope I can do it okay. (chuckles)
THERAPIST: It's okay to cry.
CLIENT: (chuckles) And so I kind of wanted to talk about that today. So I guess —
THERAPIST: So how do you feel about your body?
[00:00:50]
CLIENT: (chuckles) Bad, I guess. I feel really uncomfortable all the time. I know there's a lot of stuff I don't do because I don't feel comfortable. Like we were talking about house-bonding (ph) the other day, which is so lame, and one of my roommates is like "We should play soccer or something." I was horrified. Well, not horrified, it was just bad. Like "How can I get out of this?" was instantly my reaction.
THERAPIST: What would be bad about playing soccer?
CLIENT: I don't know. I think it's like I'm clumsy. I don't know though. That's the thing. I don't know that because I used to do sports a lot. When I was growing up, I was a swimmer and I was a really good swimmer. But now I can't even swim a lap because I can't be in the water anymore.
THERAPIST: Can't or don't want to?
CLIENT: Well, the water — it's weird because I actually had to quit swimming because I started having panic attacks in the middle of swim meets. I would like start drowning in the middle of a swimming competition (chuckles), which is so embarrassing because you're supposed to know how to swim.
[00:02:05]
But so I recently actually tried to swim again, and it was really hard because I think the submerging my head underwater is what really makes me want to inhale water. Like I want to take a deep breath when I'm underwater, which is inconvenient because I'm underwater. And so I finally was able, after spending an hour in the pool, I was able to do a couple laps without feeling like I was going to die. (chuckles)
THERAPIST: So that really — it seems like the anxiety and the memory of having panic attacks in the water, which would be very frightening, is something beyond, it sounds like, the discomfort with your body.
[00:02:52]
CLIENT: Yeah, that's different. I don't know that it's completely unrelated because — I don't know, I sort of avoid going swimming at all costs, and I think part of it is feeling really uncomfortable in shorts or whatever. I don't know. It's really hard to talk about.
Growing up I was never allowed to wear anything but pants and the skirts I had to wear to school. So I don't know if maybe — I hate thinking that's left over from my childhood, because I hate that. Like the other day, it was super hot, right? And I think the reason I hate the summer is because you can't wear layers. And so I was wearing a dress because in my house it was so hot, and I was wearing a strapless dress. I was thinking about how horrible I must look all of the time because of the stuff I'm not used to wearing. It was so uncomfortable.
[00:03:54]
THERAPIST: Were you ever comfortable in your body?
CLIENT: I don't think so. I don't know. I mean, when I was growing up my dad used to yell at me for being overweight and my mom too. But my mom mostly because my dad used to yell at her. He used to blame her for me being overweight. So sometimes —
THERAPIST: Were you overweight?
CLIENT: Yeah. I mean, I still am, which makes me feel bad. Like it makes me feel like I'm justified in feeling this horrible, you know what I mean? Because I'm unhealthy and I've been trying. Like, I lost 30 pounds last year which is good, I guess. But I couldn't even feel like I could go to the gym because I would be so embarrassed to wear workout clothes and stuff.
[00:04:41]
So I guess I finally started going to the gym recently, and I've been feeling a little bit better. But I don't know. It's just so uncomfortable. I guess I never really thought about it because that's my baseline, you know? But I guess that's probably the biggest reason I'm —
THERAPIST: Yeah, there's a real connection because flirting really requires a lot of confidence in yourself. And the idea of a romantic relationship usually involves some sort of physical relationship as well. So if you're not feeling comfortable with what you look like or how you feel in your body, that would definitely impact how comfortable you are inviting someone to notice you and pay attention to you.
[00:05:31]
CLIENT: Right. Exactly. And so a lot of the time I'm like "Oh, he would never be interested in me." So I don't know. It's really hard to talk about. It has sort of been this life-long thing, and even though I've tried to change, like lose weight and stuff, I don't know. I don't even know that if I did lose weight that I would feel better. Like, I lost 30 pounds and that's kind of a lot of weight, and I don't feel any better about myself at all.
THERAPIST: There's this idea that it would feel different if you looked different, but that may not be the case.
CLIENT: But I don't even know if that's true, yeah. So I don't know. I think this probably was because I gained five pounds because I've been really bloated cause of my period or something, and so now I'm feeling really bad about myself.
[00:06:26]
THERAPIST: So you feel worse when you gain more weight, but losing weight doesn't make you feel better.
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: That seems unfair.
CLIENT: (chuckles) Maybe, but I mean, it's also — I don't know. I'm not healthy, so it makes sense I guess.
THERAPIST: Well, I think there's this idea of judgment. Feeling badly about being overweight doesn't change your weight. It just makes you feel bad. We talk about judging yourself for other things, and there's not any inherent value in it. So I think being able to separate how you feel about yourself from what you look like is important, because your value as a person in whether you're good or bad or happy or unhappy really doesn't correlate with what you weigh. You're just as valuable a person at one weight as another.
[00:07:31]
So while I absolutely applaud your efforts to lose weight in order to be physically healthier, I don't think how you feel about yourself needs to be attached to that. You can be happy with who you are at any weight. It doesn't have to be connected to what the number on the scale says.
CLIENT: Okay. (chuckles)
THERAPIST: You don't have to buy it.
CLIENT: No, I mean, I would like to. I just don't know that I have that experience.
THERAPIST: It doesn't sound like you do have that experience yet.
CLIENT: Yeah, I don't know. Even just being able to wear different clothes and stuff, that's —
THERAPIST: It will give you a lot more freedom. And it will make you a lot more comfortable too because, like you said, maybe the reason you don't like the summer is because you don't feel comfortable in the clothes that actually make you comfortable in the summer.
[00:08:29]
CLIENT: (chuckles) Yeah.
THERAPIST: Sitting in your house in a 95 degree day, and not feeling comfortable putting on a tank top and shorts that are light and airy and breezy makes it harder to get through those 95 degree days.
CLIENT: Yeah. So I guess, yeah I guess I — I don't know how to separate those two. I think maybe my attempt to do that has been I've always focused on school or like intelligence as a more tangible aspect of my person. And so I don't know — I mean, maybe that has gone too far.
THERAPIST: Are there any parts of your physical self that you like?
CLIENT: (chuckles) I don't think so. I don't know. I was thinking about it the other day. I was like, I tried to think of something. I was like "Oh, I guess my hair is nice." I used to hate my hair but I don't really hate it anymore. (pause) I don't have acne. I don't —
[00:09:40]
THERAPIST: I think those are good places to start because you're trying to find things to appreciate about your body. Those are good places to start. I think another thing is to start to separate judging your value and how much you like yourself from what it looks like, is also think what does your body do for you? Like thinking about the ways that it works. It's similar to focusing on performing well in school as something to like about yourself. But your body does lots of amazing things. Just the fact that it can walk you from one place to another or get you up the stairs to your apartment.
CLIENT: Yeah, it's true. I mean, I do spend a lot of time thinking about the body because I work at the rehab center.
THERAPIST: It does some amazing things.
[00:10:34]
CLIENT: Which I won't be working at anymore, I don't know if I told you.
THERAPIST: Oh no. You stopped?
CLIENT: Well, I got a new job. I got a promotion to full-time, and I'm going to be training other people to do what I do but in a hospital setting. So it will be more intense.
THERAPIST: How do you feel about that?
CLIENT: Well, I'm happy that — I mean, to be totally honest, there's all of this stuff that — like, I'm excited. I'm excited I don't have to wear khaki pants anymore because they look so bad. But I'm really excited to be teaching other people. Like I was just — these names are so ridiculous — but it goes Chief Scribe and then Scribes. But they used to make me train the other Scribes instead of the Chief Scribe because the doctors liked the way I wrote the stuff that we have to write.
[00:11:29]
I realized I really like teaching and spending time and help people figure out how to do stuff for themselves. So I'm excited that that's basically what I'll be getting to do. But I'm nervous about it being in a hospital because I know that people obviously die in the hospital sometimes. I'm really nervous about that.
THERAPIST: You're getting exposed to a higher level of trauma.
CLIENT: Yeah. Exactly. Particularly dying with family members and stuff like that, which is scary. I mean, I've had people that we've transferred to the hospital before from the rehab center that have died eventually. But I've never actually seen anyone die before, so I'm nervous about that because if I can't handle it, I can't be a doctor. (chuckles)
THERAPIST: Is there somebody there for you to be able to process this kind of thing with?
CLIENT: I don't know.
THERAPIST: As you witness new experiences.
CLIENT: It's a Jewish hospital, so I'm sure there's a rabbi or something. (chuckles) But I don't know. It will be interesting. I also don't want to not have a reaction.
[00:12:43]
THERAPIST: Well, I think it's important to set your expectation of what does "handle it" mean. I don't think you have to be unaffected by seeing loss or seeing pain to be a doctor. Remaining human is an important piece of being able to relate to people and to practice with empathy.
CLIENT: Right. And that's one of my fears going into medicine. I have — it's easy for me to understand, to empathize with people. I cry a lot with other people when they tell me stuff, but not extreme. Not like making it about me. Anyway, I don't want to lose that connection, but I also don't want to be able to not function.
THERAPIST: So finding out the right balance for you.
CLIENT: Right.
THERAPIST: And I also think seeking out someone, if you're able to have access to the chaplain, or talk to somebody else who does what you do. That's a piece of being able to handle it, but not be unaffected by it. Not have to be unaffected by it.
CLIENT: That's interesting. I guess maybe "handling it" would probably be being able to finish the rest of my shift at work. I don't know. That's interesting.
THERAPIST: When does that start?
[00:13:59]
CLIENT: A week and a half. So, really soon. And it's actually in Vermont, so the commute is going to be quite long. I mostly have overnights this month because I have a lot of babysitting going on in the meantime. And so that's when a lot of the accidents happen. A lot of really bad stuff happens at night. And mostly night weekend shifts is what I have. (chuckles).
THERAPIST: There's a lot of potential for drunk driving accidents.
CLIENT: Exactly. But I guess it's part of [the help sort of thing]. But anyway, that's been on my mind too. I was talking to my mom about it last night.
THERAPIST: Is there someone you can stay with? Because if you do an overnight, you'll be too tired to drive back.
CLIENT: No. Well, it ends at seven in the morning if it's an overnight. So it won't be too bad. It's only 15 minutes longer than my current driving, but it will be more a lot shifts per week. It will be okay.
[00:15:12]
It was such a hard decision for me to make, though. I don't know. I've always sort of seen myself as adventurous, like go for it, whatever. But I guess not when it comes to jobs. (chuckles) Because a part-time in an rehab center is what I currently have. I almost considered turning down a promotion, benefits, full-time, everything.
THERAPIST: Wow, a lot of stuff comes with this, huh?
CLIENT: Yeah. And I almost considered turning it down cause I was like, I'm happy where I am. I could just work at Starbucks or something like I have before. And so I was sort of surprised that I considered it for so long.
THERAPIST: What made you change your mind?
CLIENT: What made me change my mind? Sometimes when I'm trying to make a decision, I ask someone I'm close to, to just tell me what they think and to not be offended if I don't agree with them. Because sometimes just hearing what someone else has to say, I'll be like Oh, I agree with that" or "Oh no, I definitely don't agree with that."
[00:16:16]
THERAPIST: Test your own reaction.
CLIENT: Exactly. And so I kept feeling like "Yeah, well I kind of agree with that but I don't want to." It was almost like I knew what I had to do, but I really didn't want to. I talked to my mom and she was like — I also thought "Well, this isn't my permanent job for life." My mom also said something like "They could fire you, but you can't quit." That makes no sense.
So it was actually really hard because before — this is so embarrassing to say — I hate quitting jobs. I hate quitting, so my exits from other jobs have been really dubious. (chuckles) It's like I would kind of do a bad job until they were like "Well, we're not going to put you on anymore shifts." Just because I couldn't tell them that I needed to quit or something, which is horrible. It's bad.
[00:17:20]
THERAPIST: It doesn't reflect well on you. It makes your record look bad.
CLIENT: Exactly. I guess recently, in the past couple of years, I've been doing a lot better with that. (chuckles)
THERAPIST: It sounds like you performed really well if they want to give you a promotion.
CLIENT: (chuckles) Maybe, yeah. I guess I changed my mind. I e-mailed one of the doctors too and was like "Hey, what do you think?" She was like "That sounds good. You should take it." And everyone else was very supportive. So this is my last week. So I guess that's good. It will be —
THERAPIST: You sound unsure.
CLIENT: No, I'm excited. I am excited. I'm just — it's change and change is —
THERAPIST: Change can be a little scary.
CLIENT: Yeah, exactly, even though I've never been one to be scared of change. I don't know. I mean, actually, part of the reason I stayed to do the post-bacc here was — because I was going to go to, what's that place? Oh my gosh, where Vanderbilt is. Nashville. Because they have two great post-bacc programs and obviously a lot of volunteering opportunities.
[00:18:35]
But then I sort of thought about it and I was like, maybe this is me needing to change too much. I can't just start over again. It took me long enough to make a couple of friends here. So I guess I'm trying to strike a balance between —
THERAPIST: Getting yourself grounded and not sort of running around and away from things and being afraid.
CLIENT: Exactly. So I guess I've sort of been thinking about that. So this will be a good step, I think, because I get to stay but also leave.
THERAPIST: Yeah. Make some changes, but keep some things consistent. So how long will you be able to do full-time and your program?
CLIENT: (laughter) Wait, what's the question?
THERAPIST: You start your program in the fall, right?
CLIENT: Yes.
THERAPIST: Are you going to be able to work full-time and [your degree too]?
[00:19:31]
CLIENT: The program is designed for people who work full-time. So there are night classes, and they —
THERAPIST: You do overnight shifts.
CLIENT: Yeah, I know. (chuckles) Well, you only have to work three shifts a week at the hospital to be full-time, because the shifts are 12 hours. And it won't be overnight every time. I'm trying to figure out a way to not completely kill my sleep schedule too.
THERAPIST: It's hard because if you're doing evening classes, in the experience I've had, people tend to stay at the classroom from six to nine, and there tends to be a lot of staying up really late to do things. You don't want to be starting to zone out at the end of class.
[00:20:25]
CLIENT: Right. Exactly. Well, one of the ways that I worked it out when I was part-time this time — because I had to work on Tuesdays but then had class all day on Wednesdays — so what I did was I would wake up really early that day and do what I needed to do before class. And that actually worked out because I was fresh on the material right before I went to class. I got to finish on time most of the week. There was one week when I was doing (inaudible at 00:20:47). So hopefully, maybe I can work something like that out. I don't know, logistics. I feel like there is a lot changing.
THERAPIST: Well, you'll have some time to do the job and get used to what the shifts are like before you start classes.
CLIENT: Yeah, that's true. We did sneak up to Bridgewater where the job is, to kind of stealth —
THERAPIST: Who is "we"?
CLIENT: One of my roommates and I. We spied on the hospital. We checked it out.
THERAPIST: You did some surveillance.
[00:21:25]
CLIENT: Yes. (laughter) We casually walked in front of the emergency room. (laughter) So it seemed nice. We ate at the cafeteria. There was no vegetarian food, though.
THERAPIST: Maybe you can make some changes.
CLIENT: (chuckles) Yeah, maybe. I've been trying, actually, to eat meat but I can't do it.
THERAPIST: What would be your motivation to adding meat back into your diet?
CLIENT: I've been trying to eat healthier, but I don't really cook. Well, I do cook but I'm so used to cooking vegetarian stuff that I'm like well, I guess I can have meat as a side. But how do I do the logistics of this?
[00:22:17]
I've been making changes to my diet for years. Like freshman year of college, I gave up all soft drinks and so now the only thing I occasionally have when I fly is ginger ale, or when I'm sick. What else? I've been a vegetarian for a few years. I don't eat gross stuff like —
THERAPIST: "Gross stuff?" There's a judgmental word. (laughter)
CLIENT: (laughter) I don't know. I guess.
THERAPIST: What prompted you to become a vegetarian?
CLIENT: Oh, uhhhhh. (pause) Environmental stuff. (chuckles) It's like, what was it? It's just such a big part of my life now that I don't even think about it. I don't know. Like over-fishing and stuff. It started because of seafood, because I love seafood. It's my favorite food ever.
[00:23:17]
But I wanted to exist in the future. (chuckles) So I don't know. It's like environmental stuff, I guess. But I also wanted to start eating healthier, but it turned out the other way around.
THERAPIST: Well, I think there are probably ways to eat healthy as an omnivore. There are ways to eat healthy as a vegetarian. So thinking about what feels really important to you, and then making changes that feel consistent with whatever your personal beliefs are. Because I think pushing yourself to make changes is healthy if they are changes you feel good about. But, I mean, you don't want to sort of force yourself to eat meat because of this idea that it's healthier if that feels like it's brushing up against something else that's important to you.
[00:24:05]
I want you to challenge yourself in ways that feel good and feel consistent with what your beliefs and your ideas are. Because there are definitely ways to be a healthy vegetarian and a not healthy vegetarian. There are ways to be an unhealthy omnivore and a healthy omnivore. You've got to figure out what's really right for you.
CLIENT: Yeah. I don't know. I mean, maybe it was related to trying to lose weight or something at some point, but I don't know that that's really what it's all about, for me at least. Like I tried to make fish the other day, and all I wanted was the Brussels sprouts that were next to it. I was like, "I don't really want to eat the fish. That poor fish, it's cooked." (chuckles) And I don't care what other people do.
THERAPIST: Yeah, but if it doesn't feel right for you — I'm thinking about ways that would feel good for you in terms of your personal values. It sounds like some of the environmental and ecological reasons that started this push for you still seem important.
[00:25:12]
CLIENT: Well, I mean, I could — I've always been sort of for, like if it's locally raised or grass-fed beef, the stuff you're supposed to eat sort of stuff, then that's fine. Like, I'll eat it. But the thing is, that happens so infrequently that when I do eat it, I just get sick for the whole day because I think you actually lose some enzymes or something. Not permanently, but —
THERAPIST: Your body is not used to that.
CLIENT: Right. Exactly. So my stomach is upset forever, and I already have IBS so — (chuckles) Anyway, I don't know. I guess this is a lot of what happens in my head, like —
THERAPIST: This is all related to where you started.
CLIENT: Exactly. Exactly. And so, I don't know.
THERAPIST: If you think about what you really want for yourself in terms of your body, in terms of food, if you had a magic wand, what would you feel? What would you think? What would it look like?
[00:26:17]
CLIENT: I want to be healthy. But I also want —
THERAPIST: Go ahead, I'm going to let you finish.
CLIENT: But I also want to feel good about — like I don't want to feel like I can't wear shorts ever. And I don't want to feel like I can't wear dresses ever. I want to have flexibility in what I wear. Even changing in the locker rooms is like horrifying. (chuckles) Now that I'm going to the gym, everyone is naked. I'm like, I feel so awkward because I can't get naked, which is weird. It's a weird area. The gym is a weird area. But yeah, I don't know.
THERAPIST: So I heard "I want to feel healthy. I want to have the flexibility to be able to wear a wide variety of things. I want to be comfortable enough to be able to handle situations like going to the gym, using the locker room."
[00:27:16]
CLIENT: But then also I think I want to look in the mirror and be like "That looks good." Not in that conceited narcissistic way, but like "I look good today."
THERAPIST: What is your idea about what you would need to look like in order to have that experience?
CLIENT: I think I would have to lose weight. But that's what I've always thought, so I don't know. I don't know. (pause) I need to stop picking at myself. I don't know. I mean, I look in the mirror and I'm like "Oh my God."
THERAPIST: "Oh my God" and then what follows?
CLIENT: I then pick at what I look like. "Oh my gosh, I have cankles," for example, is like a thing that I think. "My feet are huge," which is actually true, so I can't really do anything about the size of my feet. You know, just stuff like that. Like, more? (chuckles)
[00:28:15]
THERAPIST: I actually want to hear you voice it.
CLIENT: (chuckles) I don't like my legs. That's actually my greatest insecurity. I don't like my legs.
THERAPIST: What would you want them to look like?
CLIENT: Nicer. I don't know. (chuckles)
THERAPIST: What is "nicer"?
CLIENT: Smaller. Like we had a patient the other day at the rehab center, and I was typing something and they were switching rooms. So on the way, the patient's mom was like "I thought I had big hips. Oh my gosh. You have really big hips." I wanted to die. I was like "Oh my God, why did you just say that to me? In what world is that a compliment?" (pause) That's what really bothers me, when other people see it. Like maybe if it was just me, and I know I'm looking at myself and I'm being crazy, then that's fine.
[00:29:06]
THERAPIST: Yeah, but other people make judgments too.
CLIENT: Exactly. Yeah. And then I guess it's something I'm starting to think about. So, I don't know. But I felt really bad. I felt really bad. I mean, I think she meant it as a compliment because otherwise why would you have said it, right?
THERAPIST: Some people say things that they shouldn't say. It would be wonderful if people were respectful, and it very much might have been a compliment in her mind. I remember I was pregnant I think with my first child, and I walked in the room and my grandmother said to me "My God, you got fat." I'm like "Who says that to a pregnant woman?"
CLIENT: (laughter) That's ridiculous.
THERAPIST: At least I could say back to her "Nana, we don't say that, regardless. But I'm pregnant and you know that I'm pregnant. This was not a surprise. Of course I'm going to get bigger." But in her mind, that was a compliment because in her generation, the idea of a fat pregnant woman means health and robust. It didn't feel like a compliment to me. But in her mind, that was the goal for a woman to be able to gain weight and nourish this baby, blah blah blah. She couldn't believe I was offended.
[00:30:22]
So it's very possible that for this woman, yeah, the idea of a curvaceous woman is that it's feminine to have hips. It might very much have been a compliment. But what's important is that it didn't feel like a compliment to you. We never really know. So commenting one way or another way, we don't know what it's going to feel like to somebody. I think a lot of times people say — you lost 30 pounds last year. A lot of people will comment on that when they notice it. And sometimes it feels good to people, and sometimes it feels bad to people. We don't know.
CLIENT: Yeah, like when my mom said something about it, I was like "Oh, why did you say that?"
THERAPIST: Right, and she wanted it to feel good. So I think it's really hard to be able to hear feedback from other people, and have it line up with whatever thoughts or judgments are in your own head. And trying to separate that, both what other people say and what you say, and from what the physical body actually is. What gives us the most flexibility and freedom is when how you feel about yourself isn't really attached to what you see or what someone else says.
[00:31:28]
CLIENT: I don't think I know how to begin to untangle those. I mean, I don't know. That's really complicated, right? Because, I mean, even just growing up, the whole thing was "You're overweight. You're never going to find someone who loves you because you're ugly."
THERAPIST: They were attached for you, and undoing that is very complicated. It's part of why I'm pressing you to say out loud what it is you say in your head when you look at yourself. Because what we're going to have to do is change that thought process. Being able to change the thought process that goes on in your head is part of untangling it. If we can reduce how closely — because what's happening is you look in the mirror and you see something, and then you feel something, and then you attach a whole bunch of thoughts to it to try to explain to yourself why it is you feel the way you do. I'll do it again.
[00:32:26]
CLIENT: (chuckles)
THERAPIST: You look in the mirror and you're unhappy with what you see, and that happens almost automatically. And then the next step is you start to say things to yourself that kind of make that unhappiness make sense to you. So you feel unhappy, look in the mirror and you say "Oh, I have cankles, and my feet are huge, and my legs are too big and look at this, I don't like this." And so all those statements then explain to you why you don't feel good.
So if we can get rid of some of those, we can start to separate what you're thinking from how you feel. Because once we get rid of those thoughts, we can replace them with something that's a little bit more adaptive. You can see yourself in the mirror and then say something else, and that will start to affect what you're feeling. Because I think what you feel and what you think are very closely tied together. And if we can have a little bit more conscious control over what you're thinking, we can start to affect what you're feeling. I think it's really hard.
[00:33:30]
If you were to make them connected, I think the arrows go both ways. I think what you feel affects what you think, and what you think affects how you feel. But it's really hard to jump in at the level of feeling. It's very hard to look in the mirror and say "Oh, no, no. I'm going to feel really happy. I'm very pleased, actually." I don't think we have as much room to sort of manipulate that. I think there's a little bit more room to manipulate what it is you're thinking and then work in that direction.
CLIENT: Okay. Okay.
THERAPIST: Does that make more sense? I jump around too much.
CLIENT: No, that makes sense. That makes sense. It sounds foreign, but it makes sense. (pause) Yeah. How does that happen?
THERAPIST: How does which piece happen?
CLIENT: How do I not think about that, because that's just so —
THERAPIST: It's so prominent right now.
[00:34:25]
CLIENT: I mean, that's what I think about most of the time. (pause) I don't know.
THERAPIST: Well, I think it's going to take a lot of work. It's very similar to some of the processes that you've used in thinking about your relationships. If you kind of rewind time, when we first started thinking and talking about how to give you a little bit more confidence to assert yourself in your relationships, that felt really foreign too. The idea of speaking up and asking for what you want, or sharing what you were feeling to somebody in a conversation, was like "Oooh, no, no. I can't do that." And it's the same process. We're just applying it now more to a relationship to yourself rather than a relationship with one of your roommates. But it's the same skills you used in one place that we're just going to move them over to another area.
[00:35:24]
So think about it. It's always hard when you think about it with yourself. So, in my example, when I walked into the room and my grandmother said "Wow, you're really fat," of course it didn't make me feel good. What would you have said to me? What should I have thought in that case that would have been more adaptive than, one, "Boy, I'd like to kill my grandmother right now," and two, "Yeah, I am getting fat."
CLIENT: I don't know. I guess "I'm pregnant." (chuckles)
THERAPIST: Yeah, so thinking about another way to understand the changes. And the other thing you did was you changed the focus from what my body looked like to what it was doing. Like it was growing a human being. That's the same kind of thing that we'll change your focus on. So, okay, right now what your body looks like isn't to do with the fact that you're pregnant, as far as we know.
CLIENT: (chuckles) Hopefully.
THERAPIST: But there are a lot of fantastic things that your body is doing. What are some of the things that your body can do for you?
[00:36:28]
CLIENT: Like, in general?
THERAPIST: Uh-huh.
CLIENT: (pause) I don't know. Breathing is good.
THERAPIST: Breathing is really good, yeah.
CLIENT: (chuckles) (pause) I don't know. (chuckles)
THERAPIST: So this will be part of your homework. So what I'd like you to do is start thinking about things. So you can think about function rather than form. Because I really think this is something you're going to be able to grasp onto, because you've always had this interest in body systems and things like that. Just in the course of a normal day, your body functions and does pretty amazing things for you. So even if you're not training for a marathon or an Olympic athlete, just the course of every day is pretty amazing.
[00:37:22]
When you see somebody in the rehab center system and their body is not working correctly, that might give you some ideas about "Well, my body is doing this and this and that." And focusing on what it can do just as it is now might start to give you some other things to think.
CLIENT: Okay. That makes sense.
THERAPIST: It will feel foreign. That's okay. It's okay for it to feel awkward and different.
CLIENT: I guess I have thought about some things like that. Like for example, the other day I was babysitting and he asked me why my hand was on the middle thing. I was like "Oh, this is the clutch, this is the gear." For me it's so natural, and then I'm like "I'm driving with four limbs, that's interesting."
[00:38:21]
THERAPIST: So being able to coordinate that, having your left foot on the clutch and your right foot going back and forth between the brake and the gas, and one hand partly on the wheel to steer and the other hand on the gear shift. That is pretty amazing.
CLIENT: But I guess what I sort of felt about it was like "Oh, well, everyone else can do this too, if they wanted to." Maybe it's something about —
THERAPIST: Not everybody can drive a stick.
CLIENT: (chuckles) Well, everyone could learn if they wanted to, I don't know.
THERAPIST: But you can.
CLIENT: I guess my point in picking on my body is my — like things that are specific to me, not in general. Can I replace that with things that belong to other people as well? I mean, is that possible?
THERAPIST: You can, because I think, two things — one, there are probably some things you do that not everybody else can do, and allowing yourself to actually give yourself credit for those things is part of your challenge.
[00:39:24]
Because you will often devalue things you can do and not give yourself credit. Not everybody can complete a graduate program, and you did. Not everyone does have the coordination or the persistent to practice enough to be able to drive a stick. A lot of people just learn how to drive an automatic and they're done. But it sounds like that's something that you were willing to practice and you can do. So even though somebody else might be able to do it too, does not mean that it's not great that you can do it. It doesn't take away the ability to coordinate, and have two different hands doing two different things. You still get credit for that, even though you're not the only person in the world who can do it.
CLIENT: I guess maybe it's related to this — I don't know what you think — but I've been thinking about getting back into swimming because it's good for my body health-wise, but it's also — I used to love it so much. I don't know. Maybe that would be a good place to — because it's a little bit different, but —
[00:40:32]
THERAPIST: Yeah, but I think having a positive experience in your body would be wonderful. And if that is something that you enjoyed, being able to feel good in your body and enjoy some physicality, it's wonderful for you. It's wonderful for everybody. Being able to do that, especially because you spend so much time, it sounds like, uncomfortable in your body — to be able to feel good in it would be great. What was your anxiety level when you tried that out the other day?
CLIENT: It was up there. I felt great that I actually could do it by the end of the time. It's so hard because it's almost like — like I've only had one panic attack in my life, I guess out of the water, but it was so strange. It's such a weird feeling because, like my head, I'm thinking and I'm like "This makes no sense."
[00:41:29]
I had a panic attack in response to — I was alone in the place where we check mail at school in college, and there was a bank in it, and it had like a cut-out of a person. And I saw it out of the corner of my eye. I looked at it, I saw it was a cut-out of a person and not a real person, but —
THERAPIST: It still freaks you out.
CLIENT: It horrified me. I was hyperventilating. I had to sit on the floor. It was really bad. But in my head, I was like "This makes no sense. It's a cut-out of a person. Why am I scared?"
THERAPIST: But once that process got started for your body, the physiological stuff just took over.
CLIENT: Right. Exactly. And it was such a separation of what I was thinking and —
THERAPIST: And what was happening.
CLIENT: Exactly. And that's kind of what I experienced when I was swimming. I started by just jumping into the pool. I had to immediately climb up to gasp for air, sort of thing, when I know all I have to do is hold my breath. (chuckles) Because I can come right up. I'm a good swimmer. I can swim.
[00:42:26]
And so I guess I started to — I held onto the edge and I did put my head a little bit in and then up again, like that sort of. And when that became bearable I — as long as my head is above water, it's fine. It's just when my head goes underwater. Anyway, that kind of stayed all the way through, but by the end I had made a friend and we raced, so that was a big difference.
THERAPIST: That's a big difference in one sort of practice session. You will find — the standard treatment for any kind of anxiety disorder is exposure and desensitization. And a lot of people don't make it through those kinds of treatments, because with exposure comes a lot of anxiety. It's going to happen, but if you continue to do it, it will decrease. It's just that, like you experienced, you're going to bring up that anxiety for yourself every time you start it.
CLIENT: And that's okay, right? That won't make it worse?
[00:43:26]
THERAPIST: As long as you keep at it, it won't make it worse. That's the tricky part. It sounds — I mean, you did it. You were very stubborn with yourself. You stayed for an hour, and you stayed until you could do a lap. That's going to make it better, because what you end up teaching yourself is "Look, I got anxious and nothing bad happened." It felt uncomfortable but you didn't die. You didn't have a heart attack. None of the things that we start to feel that way actually happened.
And if you do that over and over and over again, your body will eventually get it. It will come in line with your head, and it won't bother having that anxiety response anymore. But it's not going to happen. It's not a one-shot deal. The next time you go to the pool and you go in, it's going to be really uncomfortable. And if you stick at it and keep doing it little by little, dipping your head a little bit more in or staying under a little bit longer, those feelings will start to subside.
CLIENT: Okay.
[00:44:24]
THERAPIST: If you can commit to doing it, it will work.
CLIENT: Okay. I can try.
THERAPIST: But it's an uncomfortable process.
CLIENT: Does it make sense that, at least when I was swimming, it started happening actually at a state meet in Tampa or something, but it didn't happen in my home pool. Like wherever I practiced, it was fine. But once it was someone else's pool, it was like horrifying. I guess now maybe I'm not used to the pool or maybe it's —
THERAPIST: So if you go to the same place, it might become sort of your home pool.
CLIENT: Yeah. Is that — do you think it would happen again if I changed again? I mean, maybe?
THERAPIST: It could. I mean, it has nothing to do with where you were. It's just that you made that connection. Like for whatever reason, you had your first panic attack in some other pool. Maybe you were nervous about something else. Maybe you were nervous (inaudible), but there's nothing — it's whatever connections we make in our head.
[00:45:27]
CLIENT: And that's a panic attack then? That's what it feels like?
THERAPIST: It sounds like it was. It sounds like the description that fits for a lot of people. There's no test we can do to say was it really a panic attack, but what you're describing —
CLIENT: I just never really know.
THERAPIST: Generally the way that we diagnose a panic attack is if there is some acute onset. So like you're fine one minute, and the next minute feels miserable. They're for a discrete amount of time. So anxiety that lasts for days and days and days is not a panic attack. Panic attacks are actually pretty short-lived. It feels like forever, but it's a discrete amount of time. You kind of feel fine, you have the panic, and then it goes away. Generally people experience either like a really fast heartbeat or feeling short of breath. A lot of times people have thoughts of escape, feeling like they might die, feeling like they need to just get out somewhere. Some people experience tingling in their fingers or toes, most likely associated with a change in blood pressure or something, which might not feel like that, but kind of feel like your heart pounding or racing.
[00:46:37]
CLIENT: Yeah. That kind of made it a little bit hard to work out.
THERAPIST: Yeah. Absolutely.
CLIENT: Okay. I can try that.
THERAPIST: I mean the idea is just try to — swimming is hard because you're timing your breath to the water, so it's hard to say take long, slow, deep breaths.
CLIENT: But I actually think that helps the timing of the breath.
THERAPIST: Right. Because then it's something that's very conscious. So thinking about — sometimes what helps slow down a panic attack is taking long, slow, deep breaths which you can do. Because you can say holding your breath or letting out your breath for two strokes, and then taking a breath for two strokes, rather than trying to make them fast-paced to match one stroke. And that gives you the control over the breathing.
[00:47:25]
But yeah, if you keep doing it, it's going to get better. And you'll have a mastery experience, you'll have a good experience in the water. I would also let yourself kind of play in the water a little bit, so that it's not all — if you just feel really comfortable in the water again.
CLIENT: Yeah, I tried to — I touched my toes to the bottom of the pool. It was really deep, so I plugged my ears and touched my toes to the bottom of the pool and I was like "I did it! I did it!" (chuckles)
THERAPIST: That's awesome. And let yourself be really proud of that.
CLIENT: Okay. I can try again.
THERAPIST: Why don't we stop there for today. So your homework assignment is to think of some great things that your body does for you. Make a list. Keep it for yourself.
END TRANSCRIPT
