TRANSCRIPT OF AUDIO FILE:
______________________________________________________________________________
BEGIN TRANSCRIPT:
COUNSELOR: Interview 6. Interview 6. Robinson counselor. Interview 6.
CLIENT: I'm still I guess... I guess one of the things is that I think I'm very happy about what we were talking about Monday in terms of accepting things as they are now, being kind of pleased with what's going on, and like you just accepting that and that's okay, but I'm not very happy with that in terms of relating to kind of discomfort and kind of stuff when I'm down.
COUNSELOR: It's okay for now, but what about all that other stuff?
CLIENT: Well, yeah, and... well, I... like it isn't... I guess it's not possible to look at... or it's not possible to know how I'm going to feel the next time I'm depressed or anything like that, but I don't feel very satisfied with, I guess, maybe it's just accepting things the way they are without... I'm not sure how much understanding I have of what goes on when I'm depressed.
COUNSELOR: When you say you're not sure of how much understanding when you're... what happens when you're depressed, do you mean what caused you to be depressed or why things look so bleak when you're depressed or...
CLIENT: Well, I'm sure that's part of it but also... I guess what's confusing is the whole sort of I don't know what you call it, duality or whatever of personality; like the kinds of things that were really disturbing to me when I was down. Confusion about who I am and whether I'm being real or not isn't necessarily any less confusing not being depressed. Like it isn't so difficult to deal with it or even have to look at it when I'm feeling good, but it's still... and I guess I just was thinking a little bit about like the confusion is probably still within me.
COUNSELOR: It's like you may be feeling okay now, but you know that that confusion of who you are, what you're really like, are you being real, like but that's still part of you because it's still part of you being depressed.
CLIENT: Well, yeah, that still exists. Maybe the unsureness of being real, if that's the right... I guess I'm not sure I like to use that word even. It just sounds sort of trite, I guess, or something, like just being comfortable with myself or understanding the way I feel about myself. 0:03:21.4
COUNSELOR: Well, I'm just not sure exactly what you're saying then. I'm having...
CLIENT: Well, I'm not sure I am either. It's... maybe I guess using the word, being real to myself and having a facade, that kind of confusion is still within me and, I guess, I feel that that's something that I'm... I'd like to talk about.
COUNSELOR: That's... it's like it's kind of very unsettling to kind of sense that that's real, that is real in you to feel that way.
CLIENT: Yeah.
COUNSELOR: Feel that kind of fog and unsureness.
CLIENT: Yeah, but like it's not so foggy or so unsure when I'm feeling good like now, but I guess the thinking about it is kind of... I kind of recognize that it's still there. It's just not making itself...
COUNSELOR: It's not showing its real ugly face like itself. It's not having all its affects, but it kind of... it's like standing there in the background and you can feel its effects kind of... maybe not its effects, but you know it's present and you know it's there, and it really, really unsettles you I sense to kind of sense to know that it's there.
CLIENT: Well, I understand how unsettling it is right now, except that it's still within me and I'm not for sure it's resolved. Well, I'm sure it's not. I don't think it... and it's probably not the kind of thing I can resolve in a matter of a week or so or something like that, and it's not the kind of thing that's making itself apparent in relating to people that I've been with recently and the way I felt about myself recently.
COUNSELOR: You haven't... it's like you haven't had to really deal with it.
CLIENT: I mean, like I've been feeling good and comfortable in relating to people and what's going on and being happy is coming out all right. Like I'm feeling happy and I'm able to express my happiness and my closeness to people that I'm close to but I... maybe part of it's that the people I've been with in the last week are not people that I feel any need for facade or for some other part of me to come out.
COUNSELOR: Like they bring out the things in you, you like best in yourself.
CLIENT: Yeah.
COUNSELOR: It's like you do really feel kind of like the things you don't like about yourself, but how you do feel about yourself or the unsureness about yourself that you do feel when you feel down. It's just still really all there. 0:06:31.8
CLIENT: Yeah, I think it is. I think it's still there and I guess that's what's maybe troubling is that it's there and it's not apparent right now, and I don't know if I'm terribly worried about it coming out again. It's just that I don't feel like right now that it's worked through. I guess I do feel like it'll come out again and I'll be really confused like who the hell I am and...
COUNSELOR: Right, and it's kind of like you'll lose anything you have now and I... is part of it something like this like, "Look, I know it is inevitable that it's going to come out. I just don't like what it does to me and I want to kind of undo what it does to me."?
CLIENT: Yeah. Well, one of the things I don't think that if I become depressed again or just down or something really [brings it in] (ph) that it's going to come out in the same way, because I feel like... I also feel like some of the things we've talked about have clarified some things, but I don't think that I resolved my feelings coming out and my feelings about myself. Like I still feel that the lack of confidence exists, that not liking some parts of me is still there. Maybe it's going back to wanting to look at those things now and I don't know... I guess I don't know where to look.
COUNSELOR: How about the parts about yourself you don't like? Why don't you start now by talking about it? Now, what do I feel like and how did it make you feel about yourself? 0:08:24.6
CLIENT: Well, it sounds like you're asking me to say things I've said before, which I guess is okay but is that what you're...
COUNSELOR: It looks like it disturbs you anyway.
CLIENT: No, I just... is that what you're...
COUNSELOR: I want you to say whatever you really do want to say, the words you would take to describe what the sense is you do have of those things. I mean, the way you look at them. It may not be the way you look at them... you looked at them previously. I don't know. I can't put the words in your mouth.
CLIENT: No, that's not what I expect at all. I'm just... I guess I'm wondering whether... like I figure there's a reason for asking me to say things I've said before and is it... okay. So maybe there's a different perspective because I'm feeling different about myself.
COUNSELOR: Perhaps it might lead us... take us somewhere where it hasn't. You know, no guarantee, but I kind of sense... are you feeling kind of a little disturbed or something that...
CLIENT: What do you mean?
COUNSELOR: Because I kind of sense that you look a little fidgety or something that you're talking about this stuff. I don't mean that it's disturbing stuff, but where the hell is this coming from.
CLIENT: It's that I don't want to repeat the same kinds of things and the first time we talked about some of this stuff it came out like a recording sort of; things that I'd said to people before. 0:10:06.1
COUNSELOR: I think I remember this. I remember the first time when you talked about it, kind of as you talked about it like you didn't really kind of sense, and you kind of feel now the realness for you. Like you were talking about them abstractly and they were concerns, but you weren't concerned.
CLIENT: Well, I was concerned, but it came out the way it did because I said it before, and I guess once I've said something and it sounds good the way it's been said, you know use it again.
COUNSELOR: Well, that's precisely why it doesn't almost change in a way. I don't know if you understand that. That's a little complicated. When you say things about yourself in the same ways you've always said them about yourself, they don't produce any change when you say them. You know what I mean? They're like saying clich�s about yourself. They don't do anything for you and the whole thing is to be able to say things that it does kind of produce some kind of change in the way you do feel about those things. So try to say them in new ways or maybe old things but...
CLIENT: Yeah.
COUNSELOR: In other words, the truth may be in the old things that you said, in your standard way of saying them, but they don't articulate the truth; that is they don't make you feel what it's all about. You just say them. Do you understand that?
CLIENT: Yeah, I know what you're saying.
COUNSELOR: What I'm saying is it's precisely the thing that you have your set thing that may indeed kind of... it's like compartmentalized. It's got lines. It's got a script. It's got... it's in a file, but that's precisely that thing that may keep it there.
CLIENT: Because of not trying to say it a different way?
COUNSELOR: Right. To say new words, what new, fresh images would come to your mind in trying to talk about it? Do you understand what I'm saying?
CLIENT: Yeah, I do. I'm kind of, while you're talking, kind of thinking of, well, what I just mentioned before in terms of lack of confidence in myself and, I guess, trying to think of how else to describe what that's like. I guess it's probably... I guess it's hard having pat things to say about it. You have to look at differently. 0:12:27.6
COUNSELOR: Yes. Do you find like you're just trying to look at the things you know you feel bad about yourself? It's like you slip into those habitual things and...
CLIENT: Well, like I... I like... well, I don't necessarily like what you said, but I find some... I find the truth in that, and so I also kind of feel right now that, well, maybe I have to look at it differently in order to describe it differently so that maybe there is something new to come out of it.
COUNSELOR: Well, why don't you try to think of those? Maybe something is going to try to... try to imagine how you... try to get yourself in a sense how it felt and that you feel the darkest, gloomiest things about yourself. I don't know maybe the words and maybe it's just what come to your mind, but how do you feel about what you see and what you do see.
CLIENT: As I look back on how I... or is...
COUNSELOR: As you look back, or you might try to get a sense of that now what it's like. Do you see what I mean?
CLIENT: Yeah.
COUNSELOR: I mean, like I know you're feeling good now but it's... you can feel any way. You really...
CLIENT: Yeah. I...
COUNSELOR: I know that sounds terribly hard to do.
CLIENT: It was hard, but I guess I'm thinking maybe that's not such a bad idea either, and I'm kind of groping for what I felt like when I was really down. The only thing that comes is I wonder how really down I was because it's almost hard to look at it. I think of similar things, like feeling empty, being very anxious, and like unable to concentrate on anything else but myself and how I'm feeling really crappy. 0:14:40.0
COUNSELOR: Is it kind of like when you do feel really down it's like you can't even stand not to see things around you go out and...
CLIENT: I can, but like they're not enjoyable.
COUNSELOR: You're consumed with yourself and you gloom in a way.
CLIENT: Yeah. Like doing things with people, going places. It's like I sort of want to sit in a corner and, sometimes, it's almost like wanting to be obviously depressed and kind of, on one hand, wanting to talk to someone, but then on the other hand not wanting to like look really depressed and look really down.
COUNSELOR: Do you want to be comforted?
CLIENT: I'm not sure. It's sort of like I reject it if it's offered sometimes. I can't distinguish... like I'll make it obvious that I'm down.
COUNSELOR: But why?
CLIENT: Well, I would... I'd say it's because I wanted to someone... I want somebody to notice it. I, obviously, want somebody to notice it. When people come and say, "Like really, what's the matter? Like you look bad", and I'll say, "No, I'm okay", and I'll just reject the effort to want to be comforted to someone who wanted to be comforting to me.
COUNSELOR: Do you want to know that people can respond to you? Do you want to know that there are people there?
CLIENT: Yeah. I think I know they can. It's like I know I can be kind of dramatic. I'm overdramatic about a lot of things. I know people can respond to the way I look, because I can obviously look one way or another. Like I can really look depressed if I'm depressed and I want people to know I'm depressed. Maybe it's I'm not so sure that I can speak to them about what I'm feeling and then accept it. 0:16:49.9
COUNSELOR: It's like you want them, but it's like you're really not sure that they'll be kind of really there to carry the weight.
CLIENT: Wow, something just really occurred to me that... like I am dramatic about the way I am and every once in a while people... well, friends, people who have known me for a while kind of razz me about it.
Last night at supper we were talking about a class we had Monday where two people came in to talk about a particular thing, and one of the... there was a fellow and a girl and the woman was, obviously, enjoying hearing herself talk and telling stories and all. I said that I didn't care for her so much, because she rambled for one thing, and then somebody said that she really liked to hear herself talk and I said, "Yeah. You're right. She really did", and that was kind of funny that she just was really enjoying herself. Then, well, my other roommate said, "That remind you of anybody, Casey?", and I looked and she was kind of smiling and I said... and then it dawned on me, well, maybe that's the way I am, and nobody said... and I said, "Well, why?", and she said, "I just wondered if it reminded you. Jillian doesn't remind you of anybody?", and I said, "Wait a minute", and I said, "Is that the way I act all the time?" They said, "We didn't say that".
COUNSELOR: Sure, but you knew they were, so maybe...
CLIENT: But I kind of felt like that's what they were saying, and I felt kind of like an ass.
COUNSELOR: Kind of like you're seen by them and probably maybe other people as kind of a person who does like to.
CLIENT: Yeah. And then I guess the thought that occurs to me now in thinking of that is that, well, in being obvious sometimes when I want to be, that other people pick it up as maybe being overly dramatic, and that maybe then I recognize that I'm doing that, too, and then reject any effort that they make to be comforting. 0:19:09.3
COUNSELOR: Say that again. I think there's something there.
CLIENT: Well, like okay I'm depressed and I come and sit in a room and one of my roommates is there and I just look...
COUNSELOR: You just look dramatic.
CLIENT: I look really down. So she says to me, "What's the matter?", and I'll say, "Nothing", and part of the response is that I either reject the comfort that's offered. Part of it is that I'm recognizing that I'm being overdramatic about it. Sometimes I do that. Sometimes I just... I may be depressed, but I really show it so that I'll get a response from somebody.
COUNSELOR: Well, what do you... I mean, it's kind of like the drama, the really kind of sitting there and showing it dramatically, you kind of like to know that you can at least have an effect on somebody. Is it something like that?
CLIENT: Probably. Yeah.
COUNSELOR: Like when you feel really down, like you know it gives you a little something to kind of know that you can have an effect. You kind of like need it don't you think?
CLIENT: Yeah. I guess I'm thinking of using myself or using people. I don't know.
COUNSELOR: You what?
CLIENT: Using myself or using other people. I don't know. Wow, I think is when... like I... when I was in high school. I grew up in England. I lived there for like 17 years, so like people who knew me I knew, like we'd known each other for a long time. I recall the same kind of thing that people would recognize overdramatic... the way I am and when... well, it's the thing of when it's pointed out to me like, "Oooh, I just don't like that at all". 
COUNSELOR: Like it's been the way you went for a hell of a long time, but it's like something like when your momma told you, but then you don't see yourself as doing, but "Is that me? Who me? Who are you talking about?", because you don't want that to be you. 0:21:31.1
CLIENT: It's like I don't know if I do that all the time. Sometimes I'm very consciously aware that I'm being dramatic, and every once in a while when I'm doing it, I kind of get caught in it, too, and enjoy hearing myself or watching my hands doing things. Like sometimes I do. All the times I don't know if I'm being dramatic, like I'm not conscious of whether I am or not. Like it sounds... like now it makes me think of whether I'm being real again or not.
COUNSELOR: Whether you're just kind of playing a role.
CLIENT: I'm really confused right now. I'm not sure whether... well, I'm not sure about what I'm saying. Yeah, playing a role. Okay.
COUNSELOR: Well, that's like being dramatic. You say you don't like it. Why? Because being dramatic is like playing a role. Is it being real or is it kind of going through the motions of looking super real?
CLIENT: The thought that's sitting in my mind is that other people don't like it.
COUNSELOR: Uh-huh. And that's really a concern for you. You want other people to like you.
CLIENT: Well, yeah, like..
COUNSELOR: You know like what effect does this have on other people?
CLIENT: I don't know. It's just really confusing me right now. I don't know what... a part of it seems like it's playing a role. Part of it's doing it... playing the role to get it a response from somebody, getting attention kind of thing. Part of it's not liking to be obvious. 0:23:26.4
COUNSELOR: Right. What you're doing, but that's kind of like... there's kind of like for the first cause for this time or something maybe, like you do want to have an effect, but then when you sit back and look at yourself doing it, boy, you're kind of, "What kind of effect do I have?"
CLIENT: Sometimes when I... sometimes when I'm depressed and I'm not consciously being dramatic about it, but all of a sudden I recognize I've been very obvious about it and I get really mad and I don't way to show it, I don't want it to do. Sometimes when I get really excited and all of a sudden I recoil, because I'm being overwhelmingly excited like, and I try and keep it then and not do it. Maybe that's the recognition that it's not liked. I don't know.
COUNSELOR: Maybe this is kind of like... when you say you keep it in, are you keeping in the dramatic thing or keeping in expressing what you're feeling?
CLIENT: Both. I think it's both.
COUNSELOR: It's kind of like... either way it's kind of like it just doesn't come by itself, expressing it. It's some kind of way that feels right or...
CLIENT: No, that's not right. What I said was that sometimes I'm depressed and I'm not really doing... I'm not showing depression to get a response. I'm not obviously being dramatic. I'm not aware... I'm not so aware of it but it's... but somebody, obviously, notices it and then I realize, wow, maybe I'm just overdoing it, but I haven't done it consciously so that the emotion has really been shown and expressed not for an effect, not as a dramatic overplay kind of thing, but it came out that way anyway, I guess.
COUNSELOR: Well, it's a habit. It's the way you've learned to be and express things to other people. I guess that's what you were saying. People back in your hometown saw that, too. 0:25:49.0
CLIENT: So then what started as every once in a while just being dramatic to get an effect becomes kind of an established part of a repertoire of reaction.
COUNSELOR: Sure, it's like it gets reinforced or maybe you get a reaction. People come over to you. That's your own metaphor. I don't know, maybe not metaphor but...
CLIENT: What I think now... right now is, oh. If that's the case, like my response to that would be, "Well, oooh, I don't want to... I got to stop doing that", but then it's that I'm not allowing myself to express it either at all.
COUNSELOR: Well, when you find yourself being what you call... or what you would call dramatic, does it feel like right natural to you?
CLIENT: Well, like I said, sometimes I...
COUNSELOR: Do you feel like you're saying it as it is for you?
CLIENT: Yeah. But you said then, "Well, maybe it's part of a habit".
COUNSELOR: Well, I'm...
CLIENT: Well, I'm accepting that like not necessarily as an end-all possibility, but that is possible, and I think I... maybe I'm just dramatic any... I mean, I think that's just part of the... of a part of a personality that I am that sometimes is good. Sometimes it's really good, because sometimes it allows people to enjoy themselves and allows them... allows me to enjoy myself, too.
COUNSELOR: What do you mean by that? As to why you... how does that communicate? What about? 0:27:47.0
CLIENT: Well, sometimes being kind of a dramatic person... like we can be sitting in a group of people and just having a good time and I can be really entertaining, and I can enjoy that because I like to see people laughing, and I can be enjoying myself, too. So like that part of my being dramatic is good I think.
COUNSELOR: Yeah, but that doesn't sound like the kind of being dramatic where you're expressing what you're feeling.
CLIENT: Sure, if I'm having a good time, I'm laughing and it's part of laughing, a part of a joy that I'm feeling then. It sort of seems to me right now that the dramatic part of me comes in as a negative when it comes to more serious kinds of emotions.
COUNSELOR: It's okay to kind of laugh and we get into that.
CLIENT: I guess I never thought that people don't accept my dramaticness when we're having a good time or joking or something like that. Maybe they don't, but that doesn't... that doesn't bother me, because I like that and I can accept if someone else doesn't like it. I don't care.
COUNSELOR: Well, I guess what you're wondering, what bothers you is kind of like the... when you're dramatically sitting around depressed. 0:29:34.8
CLIENT: I'm kind of hung on the thing of people's response to it.
COUNSELOR: I've noticed that. That's like a very... that seems to be the... like the real important criteria for you is how does it come across to other people.
CLIENT: I sort of... I think that in the process of growing and all that I'm less concerned about other people's... what other people think than I once was. But like we've said before, I still think I'm pretty dependent a lot of times on what they think, and sometimes their negative reaction, or I think they're not accepting me is what I want anyway.
COUNSELOR: Well, why do you want that because you would have been friends?
CLIENT: Well, it depends. Like a situation where I've got my jeans on and my boots on and I'm running around in my parents' neighborhood, and they're all very conservative and I like the response of, "Oooh, she looks like a real grunge", kind of thing. It doesn't bother me, because it's sort of the effect I want kind of thing.
COUNSELOR: But there it's like disapproval is...
CLIENT: Is really an approval.
COUNSELOR: Yeah, it is approval. You don't want their approval, but I guess people who are important to you, it's a different thing.
CLIENT: Right. I guess that's something that maybe I'd like to focus on is that I don't like being so dependent on what other people think of me and, I guess, that goes for feeling good about myself or feeling depressed about myself. 0:31:38.0
COUNSELOR: It's kind of like what gives you your... a sense of self is not from inside yourself, but it's from other people's responses to you whether you're friendly or not.
CLIENT: Well, or too much of it is.
COUNSELOR: It's like you're really dependent on that and that becomes the way when you feel something about yourself that people approve of you for doing it.
CLIENT: But like you said that before, like that's right. I guess I'm looking for another perspective on it, that like I've heard you say that a couple of times, almost the same words. I guess one thing I'm thinking of is what you said before about my habit of saying things again and saying them the same way, and then looking now to look at that dependency on what other people are thinking of me in a different way because it... Like I felt like we said it one way or...
COUNSELOR: Well, how do you feel when you see yourself doing that? Okay, you're saying these things about yourself on depending on other people. How does it make you feel about yourself?
CLIENT: You know, not completely in control of my self as a person, but needing someone else to respond in a way for control or a risk (ph). That's confusing I guess. Well, one thing it is, is that I don't feel like that I'm in control of my own self. 0:33:27.5
COUNSELOR: You feel like you're not your own master.
CLIENT: Yeah, and it's a real contradiction because I feel like I'm an independent person, but on the other hand if I look at how dependent I am on the way other people react to me, then that's a dependency and it's not independent.
COUNSELOR: It's kind of like it's setting aside the system of how do you view yourself.
CLIENT: Or how I'd like to.
COUNSELOR: View yourself.
CLIENT: Yeah. Well, and not even view myself, just be like...
COUNSELOR: Sort of like... yeah, I guess I was trying to find out how did it make you feel? I see that it's kind of inconsistent, but I really I don't have a sense of... see like I know if I... that's a pretty heavy thing to say about yourself, and then really you know that we depend on other people, but what does that do to you? How does it make you...
CLIENT: It makes me feel like I don't want to be dependent on them at least not in that way. Like being dependent on people isn't all such a bad thing and I'm dependent on people for things, but being dependent on someone else to react to me or like when someone... well... okay, like last night someone saying... suggesting or implying that I'm overly dramatic, and my response, I guess, is to change that. Like almost without thinking, "Well, maybe that's not entirely a bad. Maybe that's just the way I am and maybe they do accept it about me", but saying that makes me... it's like hitting me in the face with something I don't necessarily want to be, and that's like... does that make sense?
COUNSELOR: Yeah, it makes sense, but I guess I'm still trying to...
CLIENT: Like the experience to... 0:36:01.5
COUNSELOR: I was trying to get a reaction out of you, a self-reaction to yourself, and I feel like, I guess, I'm having a hard time getting it. With the things you're saying to me, it makes me want to be another way or...
CLIENT: Well, I don't know... I don't know how it makes me feel. Maybe it's a little angry with myself. Maybe I want to be something I'm not and there's confusion in the anger, like angry because it's not the way I want to be, and then angry because I'm not accepting myself the way I am, and maybe if I did that I wouldn't have to rely on someone else, what somebody else says to be.
COUNSELOR: So it gives you kind of a... there's kind of the anger... the anger at yourself is kind of... I sense it's kind of complicated, because what you're saying the anger at yourself is for not letting yourself just let yourself be whatever way you are, but like you just don't want to be that way.
CLIENT: Yeah. It's like...
COUNSELOR: Does it kind of make you feel inadequate or kind of...
CLIENT: Well, inadequate in the sense that I'm not living up to my expectations of myself, but I don't... I don't want to use that word because we've used it, and so when I say that... I guess when I say I'm not in control of myself, maybe that's the same thing. I'm just looking for a different way of looking at it, like being not accepting of myself. I think that's kind of... this troubles me, like I'm not accepting myself. I don't accept myself the way I am. Okay, now in some ways that's all right because I think there's some legitimate things that I need to... that I can work on to be different, but the non-acceptance goes into these other things that... like being dramatic. 0:38:58.2
COUNSELOR: It undermines kind of your whole... your whole self, looking at the whole way you feel about yourself.
CLIENT: I don't understand what you're saying.
COUNSELOR: Well, it's kind of like you can accept yourself, but like you start to be punitive about yourself, towards yourself.
CLIENT: In what way? I'm not... I'm still not sure I...
COUNSELOR: Well, it's kind of like... to the extent of like you're seeing things that you don't like to the extent of maybe this isn't right, seeing that they can be good in those things that you don't like, too, like imposing a kind of rigid set of standards on yourself.
CLIENT: Yeah. I am.
COUNSELOR: But then kind of wanting yourself to fit that mold of the standards when you don't.
CLIENT: I guess I kind of set things up that I want to be that are in contradiction to what's in my personality to be, and I'm not accepting my personality, my mentalness or my physicalness, all kinds of things the way they are, even though there's really in some ways no way I can change some things. Like given certain ways of... given certain things and there's written limitations, but I've got all these expectations that make me inadequate, that make me unwhole, and I'm not realistic about them, I guess, is what it comes to, that I can't accept maybe the limitations. Although they aren't really... I guess they don't have to be limitations. I guess I... it's easiest right now, because we've been talking about to look at the part of me that's dramatic. 0:41:04.6
COUNSELOR: Like you can say like limitations is kind of your looking. The choice of the word on this comes from that mold you're putting on yourself.
CLIENT: Yeah. It doesn't have to be a limitation really, because if I look at another person, myself as another person and say, "Well, there's good things about being dramatic anyway", and there's maybe some things about it that aren't necessarily bad at all. They're just things that you are and like that's not necessarily a limitation, but it's being made so when I set up expectations.
COUNSELOR: Right. It's kind of like... kind of it's defined from a negative in a way. So it's kind of like it's always in that column.
CLIENT: So I was being like punitive toward myself?
COUNSELOR: Right. It's kind of like... it's hard to see, to accept it and to see that it does have good things, kind of when you did say, "Well, I like that when I'm joyfully dramatic", period, but that's a something. Do you see what I'm saying? It's kind of like you take the... in other words in talking about it, too, you take the framework of the standards, like that's more you. Your standards are more you than the way you really are.
CLIENT: Well, but they're not.
COUNSELOR: Do you see what I mean?
CLIENT: I know what you're saying, but they're not. I'm just... wait a minute. I don't... I can say. I don't know if I can feel it, but like they're not necessarily more me than what I am. It's just that I'm not accepting what I am.
COUNSELOR: I mean, that's I guess what I meant. I mean, it's kind of like... I mean, certainly, you are what you are, but the way you look at yourself is from the standpoint of what you're not, what you want of yourself. Kind of like you just don't let yourself be. 0:43:31.9
CLIENT: And I think... I guess that's right, but it's not knowing what's being. Like I sort of agree with you and I sort of don't, because I think there are times when I just am myself without standards, without limitations, because I'm not consciously attempting to be something else.
COUNSELOR: You mean kind of like when you're not imposing the standards. You can just...
CLIENT: Well, I must be. I can't always be conscious of the way I am so that I can be something different. I guess I'm trying to think of an example of... I guess when I'm with a group of people... this is sort of abstract because I can't think of a specific kind of thing, but when I'm with a group of people, I'm oftentimes conscious of how I'm coming over to them, how I'm coming off. Well, take a party, like I'm deciding to be an aloof person at this party, and all of a sudden I see somebody I really like and I let that all down, and I'm just laughing and enjoying myself and then I catch myself, "Oh, I was going to be kind of a snob".
COUNSELOR: Do you really go through all that sometimes?
CLIENT: Yeah, sometimes I really do. Like I may have decided that I didn't want to go to this party, that I don't want to go to parties anymore. Like in a lot of ways I don't enjoy them anymore, like the crowds of people and there's no really talking to people and enjoying them, like getting to know someone. It's just the trivial crap you talk about. So, well, I'll go to a party recognizing that I don't like these kinds of things, and all of a sudden I'm sitting there not having a necessarily good time but just being there, and I'll find myself getting into this trivial crap that I wasn't going to let myself do. Then I'll stand off, and if somebody wants to talk about something about what we're doing as people rather than, "Hi. How are you?", that game at parties, I'll be okay. Then that's okay. Then I'll find myself getting pulled into this crap that I didn't want to, and I'll catch myself and I'll kind of withdraw from it, because it's not what I wanted to do. I don't know whether I enjoy doing it, like getting into it, as much as I feel a need to just be polite; but I do, I really do go to places and have decided to kind of play a role, I guess, and then catch myself falling out of it and... 0:46:43:08
COUNSELOR: Pull yourself back into it.
CLIENT: Yeah.
COUNSELOR: Why? What happened?
CLIENT: Well, I mean, the only thing that comes to me is just any kind of the expectations, the standards I set for myself, like you just suggested, and then I fall out of that. 
COUNSELOR: All right. I think the simpler solution would be not to go to parties.
CLIENT: Well, I don't very often anymore, but that's an example and it doesn't hold true just for like a party kind of thing.
COUNSELOR: You mean it's an example of kind of deciding, flicking a switch. This is the person I'll be.
CLIENT: That's like an extreme, like I don't...
COUNSELOR: You may do that in smaller ways, like in smaller actions.
CLIENT: But like that's the extreme kind of example of doing that.
COUNSELOR: Do you often, like when you go about interacting with people, interact kind of with the knowledge of what kind of way you want to appear as a person?
CLIENT: Yeah. I just thought of last week, Wednesday, when I sat in on the staff meeting of the group that I'm going to be training. Like part of the decision to go in this way is also part of not being a part of staff in terms of the training thing, but I was really conscious of kind of being an observer and maybe making an input sort of if I felt comfortable. Well, my input was very kind of consciously an authoritative one that I have credentials that you don't have...
COUNSELOR: You wanted to show that.
CLIENT: ...and I was sort of showing off in a way and I was conscious of it coming across sort of that way. On the other hand, I was really sincere about what I was saying, like I was...
COUNSELOR: You mean the substance besides the credentials stuff?
CLIENT: Yeah.
COUNSELOR: But why? What caused you to have to... like what you were saying, it might not be able to be heard on its own grounds and you need the credentials to sound more sincere?
CLIENT: Well, see, it's no so much that I was ... it's not so much that I came in deciding that I had to show credentials at all. It was more that I felt that I saw some things happening that maybe other people didn't see and it was like saying them dramatically maybe. Like a guy saying... like a guy was saying he's a street worker and he's like just frustrated and he didn't know what to do. He didn't know how to make any contacts. Well, no one responded. There was kind of a second of silence or so, and I very consciously made a response to what he was saying and it was a good response. It was a impressive kind of thing. It was also helpful to him and afterward I was very conscious I was kind of impressed with myself almost. 0:49:56:01
COUNSELOR: But is that kind of hoping... like an example of kind of... in other words, like other times where you just know me, but kind of decide you want to appear a way?
CLIENT: I don't know.
COUNSELOR: You want to show a face.
CLIENT: I don't know. I don't know. Like tonight I'm running the first training session. Like I have a role to play as a trainer and in a way it sets myself apart from the group of volunteer workers who are getting the training. So I feel having to be a role... to play a role in this.
I think I still can be... like I also want to be a personable person like I'm not being authority. I'm a person who's had some experience and I know a little more about this than you do and I want to share some of it with you kind of thing. I still want to be, and I still think I am an open person, and I'm not trying to set myself that far apart; yet, it is a role and I look at it sort of like preparing for it like preparing for the theater. I want to be nervous, because like the adrenaline is up and I think I think quicker. I think I'm more on top of myself.
COUNSELOR: Yeah, I guess I got the thing about what you're saying it's like the theater. It's almost like putting on the makeup or the mask for the...
CLIENT: Yeah. And on the other hand, I'm not sure that's... that I'm being honest with myself in saying that but...
COUNSELOR: Like you may be being too hard on yourself.
CLIENT: Well, so being hard on myself, but also kind of creating something out of it that isn't... that the situation calls for some differences. It calls for some preparation. It really does and, on the other hand (dictation ends abruptly)
END TRANSCRIPT
