TRANSCRIPT OF AUDIO FILE:
______________________________________________________________________________
BEGIN TRANSCRIPT:


PATIENT: I'm doing okay. 


COUNSELOR: Yeah?


PATIENT: I couldn't sleep last night. I was tired and I was watching the Golden Globe Awards because my friend's cousin was there and wanted me to see him and then I stayed up to watch a show 'til like 10:30. I take my showers at night because this takes too long to dry in the morning. Watched another show at 12:00 and that's usually when I would fall asleep and I went into ... I couldn't sleep there, and my husband wasn't snoring or anything, so then I went in ... he sleeps on the futon on the couch and sometimes I go in the back room - it's quiet and dark - and I lay there for like an hour, read a little bit, couldn't sleep, came back out, watched a movie, and I was like, awake but not like totally focused ... just kind of tired. And then it was 3:00 and I couldn't sleep. It was too bright in the front room and then I went in the back and I laid there, I think, until 7:00 this morning. Couldn't sleep. I don't know why. I had a cup of coffee at noon. And I know I'm sensitive to caffeine, so I don't drink coffee after noon. And I had eaten a late lunch and a heavy dinner, like really (ph) that makes you tired, not awake.


COUNSELOR: Can I just check in with you ... how are you feeling right now?


PATIENT: A little sluggish. 


COUNSELOR: Sluggish?


PATIENT: Yeah.


COUNSELOR: So the lack of sleep?


PATIENT: Right, but better than I was ... I mean when we talked about the unfocused-ness, I mean, I'm better now than I was earlier today. I was having a conversation with somebody and I couldn't focus on what they were saying because I was so tired. 


COUNSELOR: Well it's hard to focus when you're feeling exhausted.


PATIENT: But the minute it gets dark out, I'm like awake, you know? I didn't have any caffeine today because I was like, "Don't." I just had orange juice and apple juice. I don't want to have anything in my system that might make me stay awake. 


I was thinking about some of the things that we talked about last week, so I told my mom ... in the conversation, I said, "You know, I really don't like it when you say ..." she was looking at pictures and she said, "Well you really do look heavy," and I said, "You know, I really don't want to hear it. I don't like it." And she said, "Well, my husband and I joke about our weights," and I was like, "Well that's fine, but I don't appreciate it. I don't think it's something I feel comfortable with." And she said, "That's ..." [0:02:33]


COUNSELOR: This is from your mom?


PATIENT: Yeah. So she said that was fine. And then ...


COUNSELOR: And what was that like for you to say that to her?


PATIENT: It was fine, actually. There have been a few examples where I've stood my ground, and it's been really good.


COUNSELOR: Have you noticed anything in your body that's different or do you experience yourself any differently?


PATIENT: Yeah, well I never feel that anxiety with my mom, but with Tony, I have been ... when I'm put on the spot, I don't ... like if he just rolls his eyes at me or shrugs, I don't feel my whole body getting like "Oh my God, I'm worried about what he ... that he's mad at me" and I'll try and think through - who's right? And sometimes he's rolling his eyes and it makes no sense to me why, then I don't pay any attention to it. Then, what used to bother me was that he would do something like that and not talk about it. Now because I'm not even upset that he's doing it, I don't get upset that we don't talk about it because I thought it was (inaudible at 0:03:32). You know what I'm saying? Like if he would roll his eyes at me or go like (sighs), then I would sit and wonder what it is that he was doing that, or what should I have done differently. And then he ... I would be thinking about that and then he would be in a fine mood and I'd still be focused on why he (ph) was upset. But now because I'm not getting so upset when he does that in the first place, then I'm not upset that we don't talk about it because I'm not really that concerned that he ... I mean not every ... not like everything's better, you know, but small steps. [0:04:09]


COUNSELOR: So you're not ... you don't get as worked up about it when he does those kinds of gestures. What is it that's made you?


PATIENT: Well I think our talk last week, that wasn't very comfortable for me to talk about it, it really made me think about how ... you know, you always say, "Well what do you think would happen if you DIDN'T do, you know, whatever," like assert myself or if I said something to my mom ... And so I thought, "Well I don't know what they would ... you know, let's try and see what WOULD happen."


COUNSELOR: Kind of experiment and try it out.


PATIENT: Right. And then at work it's been a really good week. I've been busy, but John is in a psych ward, so he hasn't been calling me and [I was] (ph) covering for some colleagues and now have three supervisors depending on what case I have and I've been getting a lot of positive feedback from them.


COUNSELOR: Can I just ... I want to just check in with you. A few minutes ago there was a bit of silence between the two of us and I was aware of feeling kind of uncomfortable with it. How was it for you?


PATIENT: It was uncomfortable. I'm really not good with silence in conversations.


COUNSELOR: Can you say a little bit about what the experience was like?


PATIENT: I felt like I should be saying something, so I did.


COUNSELOR: And what would happen if we just kind of sat there for a little bit and didn't say anything to each other?


PATIENT: Then I would probably feel uncomfortable that you were staring at me.


COUNSELOR: Staring at you and is there anything else that you imagine is going on during that time?


PATIENT: I get a little bit like I have to think of something to say, but ... if I'm thinking about something and I'm not really focused on it and it's quiet, then it makes me a little uncomfortable. [0:06:05]


COUNSELOR: I'm curious about that, because I know the last time that we met, we talked a little bit about your kind of tendency to talk quickly and then I said I noticed that in session sometimes, and I'd be interested in knowing a little more about how you feel when things are kind of quiet here, we don't say anything to each other.


PATIENT: I think that because we're just sitting here, [it makes me] (ph) uncomfortable. I think if I was doing something, you know, like if you were writing and I was sitting here, it probably wouldn't make me feel as uncomfortable. Or if I was writing and you were ... I guess I'm not good with silence generally. I'm never quiet with my clients and I tend to interrupt, which I've been trying for a long time to stop doing to people.


COUNSELOR: So I wonder what that's about, you know, kind of the silences. Silences are uncomfortable for a lot of people. I feel uncomfortable when it happens too, and I feel like ... I sense your uncomfortability with it and so I feel like I want to say something and then I pick up that you want to say something to kind of fill that space. 


PATIENT: I don't know why that is. I don't think I generally have given ... have let there be silence.


COUNSELOR: So I'm imagining in that moment where there's silence between two people, you could be experiencing yourself in the moment, you could be thinking of what it is you ... that you'd like to say or maybe thinking about what was just said.


PATIENT: Sometimes I do that. I guess something comes to ... my mind is so jumpy, it's not hard for me to think what I WANT to say, it's hard for me to just focus on a particular ... maybe you say something and it's ... impacts me, then I'll think about it and then I'll think of something, you know, as an example of what you're saying to correct or an example of what you're saying ... you know, like if you were to say, "I see whatever," then I would think about it and I would probably ... the next thought would probably be either something for or against what you just said. I wouldn't just think about what you said. [0:08:29]


COUNSELOR: Do you feel like I am expecting you to think quickly and to be fast in your responses?


PATIENT: I think it's probably just the time, you know, like 45 minutes, you want to cram it all in. It's probably not always the most therapeutic.


COUNSELOR: So there's that kind of feeling of wanting to get the most out of the time. So there's that piece of it. But you said you notice that that happens in other relationships too where you (inaudible) people or that you feel like you're talking quickly?


PATIENT: Like an example would be I saw my client and she generally doesn't talk that much. And so we're sitting there with the caregiver, and generally her caregiver will talk more than both of us, but she had told her caregiver that something her caregiver said made her uncomfortable, which I was trying to encourage. And then there's the three of us all looking at each other. So then I was like, "Well, you know, can you believe the weather?" And I was like, "That probably is not ..." I mean, it was fine, it wasn't odd in the conversation, there was a lull in the conversation, but I probably could have let it be.


COUNSELOR: And so here with me, if we just sat quietly for a longer amount of time ...


PATIENT: [I would get nervous] (ph).


COUNSELOR: [You would get nervous] (ph). So it sounds like it's more than just the time would be wasting, that you feel like you're not DOING things here, that you feel nervous about some ...


PATIENT: Well I'm really ... you'll notice like with eye contact, if I'm ... I can't ... if I look at you too long then I'll HAVE to look away. It makes me uncomfortable. So if we were just sitting here and I wasn't looking at you, it probably wouldn't be that big of a deal. But if we were like staring at each other, I would definitely be uncomfortable. [0:10:20]


COUNSELOR: Would you feel kind of compelled TO look at me or ... if we were sitting in silence?


PATIENT: Probably.


COUNSELOR: Yeah?


PATIENT: Like sometimes ... it sounds so weird ... sometimes I'm having a conversation with somebody, and it's happened here too. I'm looking at you, and then my eyes will ... [they have like a] (ph) ... I can't explain it, like ... it's like my eyes refocusing, you know? Then if ... it freaks me out, like I can't ... then I don't know why my eyes are doing that and I feel really uncomfortable. I don't think it's a medical ... like I'm having trouble seeing, it's like ... you know when you're at the eye doctor and they have those things and they check which ... it's like that, but only when I'm staring at people.


COUNSELOR: For any length of time?


PATIENT: Right. It doesn't happen like if I'm looking at this picture, it wouldn't happen.


COUNSELOR: So if you could in a moment of silence kind of look wherever you felt like looking or ... would that make it easier to be in that moment and not ...?


PATIENT: I think so. 


(a bit of silence)


PATIENT: (laughs) 


COUNSELOR: So it's awkward. It was awkward.


PATIENT: Right. I think because I'm uncomfortable with ... I mean ... if you and I were sitting in my office, I share it with like six different people, and there was a lull in the conversation, I would focus on my ... whatever was on my desk or you know ... it wouldn't be uncomfortable that it was quiet, but ... If I go on a cigarette break with my co-workers and there's a lull in the conversation, I'll always fill it. [0:12:17]


I think that's what I do with smoking, like I'm walking and I feel uncomfortable just walking, and I'll have a cigarette and sometimes I won't even want it.


COUNSELOR: To kind of do something?


PATIENT: So I don't ... like when I was younger, I would always play with my rings when I was walking because it was something to do, you know, it wasn't just walking. Maybe I felt awkward walking, I don't know, like I walk funny or anything, but I would just have to play with something, so I think that's why. Because I'll have a cigarette, I'm like, "I didn't even want that," but I just feel like I SHOULD be doing something while I'm walking.


COUNSELOR: It sounds like some aspect of the experience when you do that kind of stuff is anxiety-driven and you feel kind of anxious or uncomfortable? Awkward?


PATIENT: I don't know. Uncomfortable, yeah. I don't know if I feel anxious, like anxiety of walking or anxiety of somebody looking at me. I just feel like I ... yeah, uncomfortable I guess. I don't know why. I remember when I was younger I felt uncomfortable because I was just walking and I felt maybe I looked awkward. I don't think that now. Maybe it's just because everybody's busy, you know, doing something. Holding something and talking on the phone, doing something.


COUNSELOR: So if you were, say for example, having coffee with someone and there was a lull in the conversation or just some real silence, how would that feel?


PATIENT: Probably uncomfortable, unless I was distracted by something. If I was watching something else, if my attention was diverted, I wouldn't care, but if we were just sitting there and nothing was going on and there was a lull in the conversation ... I don't think it would happen because I would say something. Because I would feel compelled like I SHOULD say something. [0:14:24]


Like remember when I told you with my client and she was crying and I felt uncomfortable and I just said something? Do you remember I was saying that? My client's daughter? And it was like ... I mean, she didn't care, and I was like this, I was totally ... I should have let her ... I do it with John all the time. He'll be talking and he takes forever to talk and I can't ... all his stories are like 40 minutes long and I just want him to get to the point and he'll be like, ["You never let me talk,"] (ph) and I'll say, "Yeah, thank you for pointing that out" but I can't wait longer than ... a couple seconds, but after too many seconds, I'm like, "So ..."


COUNSELOR: So in that situation, you're kind of a little irritable maybe, wanting to get to the point?


PATIENT: Right. (inaudible at 0:15:13) have a cigarette break. I was walking over here ... I walked here from work, and one of my co-workers had a (inaudible) that we were walking a little bit and there was a lull in the conversation. We were talking about his ... he's gay, but he was once married, and we were talking about his (inaudible) country and his wife and his kids and I was making a real ... attention to asking HIM questions because I have a tendency to dominate the conversation and people probably (inaudible) especially like him, because he's a very quiet guy. And then there was a lull and I was like, "Oh, I'm dog sitting for so-and-so client." And then I thought ... not that it sounded bad, but that it didn't really have anything to do with what we were just talking about. [0:16:05]


COUNSELOR: So I'm curious what is that ... what is it experientially for you? What do you feel like when you're in that moment where there's silence and you feel kind of compelled to say something to fill up the space? Are you aware of ...?


PATIENT: I don't know what you're asking me. 


COUNSELOR: Is ... when there's a moment of silence, there's something that kind of pushes you to say something to fill up the space, and I'm wondering what is it that you, maybe, think or what is it that you feel that drives that?


PATIENT: I think I'm not conscious that just because it's quiet that I want to fill it. Maybe because I feel obligated because I'm having a conversation with someone that the conversation should stay ... like it should remain a conversation.


COUNSELOR: You're concerned about the other person or are you concerned about yourself?


PATIENT: You know, I've never paid attention so [that's hard to] (ph) answer. I'm trying to think, because it just happened on the way over. We were talking about that, and I was feeling uncomfortable because it was quiet. And I just felt like I needed to say something else, you know, like talk about something that would be ... maybe ... I was just going to say I had to talk about something interesting, that's why I brought up the dog thing (inaudible) interesting.


COUNSELOR: How is it to talk about this for today? [How do you feel talking about it now?] (ph)


PATIENT: I think it's fine because I never really thought ... I mean, I've thought about it, but not really paid it much attention, so I'm intrigued why I do it. So I'm not uncomfortable talking about it. But like a lot of times when you're asking me, "Well how does it feel?" I really can't ... I feel like there's something you're asking me that I don't ... maybe I'm not paying attention to that you want me to think about. [0:18:21]


COUNSELOR: Do you experience ... when I say that to you, do you experience it as like a real ... being put on the spot?


PATIENT: I think like that one day when we had that discussion here where I felt a little frazzled that day ... I don't right now, because I'm asking you, like, "Can you clarify it?" whereas that day, I didn't ask you to clarify, I just kept thinking I had to answer without knowing exactly what it was you were asking, which is what I do to Tony all the time. He'll ask me and I'll answer and he's like, "What are you talking about?" And I'll think I know what he's talking about and feel like I have to have an answer. So this time I said, "I don't know exactly what you're asking me for?" I still ... as much as I can remember, I think I've explained what I feel.


COUNSELOR: How is it not to know what the experience is like?


PATIENT: Frustrating that ... trying to remember exactly how I felt when I was walking over here and I can't ... I wish I did. 


COUNSELOR: And it's a very hard thing to do when you're not used to doing it. It's something that really does take kind of practice and what I've noticed with sessions that we've had is that you will take something from a session and kind of mull it over and make sense of it outside the session, come back with your own understanding of it.


PATIENT: I think that especially ... I mean for me, at least, I think last week was the first time I really talked about ... more focused on how I interpret things and what drives ... what are my motives behind some of my behaviors and you had brought up that it seems that I'm always trying to live up to others' expectations ... I think ... in a way was how you explained it ... or always try to impress other people. So while I don't think I really stopped doing that, but I've been more aware and been trying to be more assertive about things that I feel that I don't agree with. [0:20:22]


COUNSELOR: Is that your experience of yourself? I mean, do you feel that way or ...?


PATIENT: I mean, no, because I would not like to be that person ... we talked about it last week. I think ... like if somebody compliments me, I can thrive on it for like days, you know, it gives me a nice ego boost and I'll be more assertive and I did have a very good week professionally with having a lot of support, and then I was more assertive at home with Tony and we didn't argue about anything. We had to plan out a kitchen and he was saying, "Well why are you doing this? Why are you doing that?" And I would explain it without feeling the least bit under pressure because I knew what I was talking about and he was like, "Oh. You're right." So ... I don't know why I so ... why ... not dependent, but why I want praise from others so much. But I know that when I get it, I really enjoy it.


COUNSELOR: Well I can understand enjoying it. It's a great feeling, getting praised by others.


PATIENT: So then I'll remember it for a while and feel good. But I guess I never, in the context that we talked about it, you know, pulling in professionally and personally and just a lot of different interactions in my life, which was a new perspective for me. Because for my job ... and it's something that my supervisors have said that you can only do so much without internalizing everything and I do wish ... I try not to do so much.


COUNSELOR: You feel like you take ... you internalize everything? [0:22:03]


PATIENT: Right. Like if my client's not happy, it's like all my fault. And I'm thinking that there are people that will never be happy no matter what I do or ... this hasn't happened yet, like, why haven't I done this yet without putting things in perspective those type, you know ... like John is a great example because there's so many things I have to do and then I'll feel bad that ... well, I haven't done this. And then I'll ... been paying attention this week of how much things I HAVE done, you know, and because I got a new supervisor, I had to go over my cases, a lot of them that are pretty mild, like haven't really had to do much for, and I just was explaining things I DID do and she's like, "That's great that you did that." And I was like, "It is great that I did that."


COUNSELOR: So you were able to kind of take note of the fact that you were doing some good work.


PATIENT: Mmm hmm. Yeah. I was covering for somebody and his client was like, "I can tell by, you know, whatever, you are real good at this." And it also came at a really busy day. For somebody who's not good under pressure directly, I'm really good at pressure when there's a lot of things going on, you know, like your adrenaline is pumping and at the end of the day when everything's finished, you feel good. And I haven't felt that way in a long time because with John, you're never finished. But now he's just kind of out of sight for a little while and I can focus my energies now (ph).


COUNSELOR: So you're relieved about that.


PATIENT: I am.


COUNSELOR: Yeah. 


PATIENT: I am.


COUNSELOR: How is that for you, feeling relieved at kind of having [him hospitalized] right?


PATIENT: It feels good and it feels good not to feel guilty that I don't have my phone on or that I don't really feel like talking to him. And at work, they've been working with me about how to be more assertive with him about not listening to his 20-minute story about ... chocolate cake. Because in a way I feel obligated, like I HAVE to. And all the things I started saying, you know, he should go to ... "you should talk about this with your therapist for seven months." I listen to him without thinking that I wasn't supposed to do that. [0:24:14]


COUNSELOR: So that was big, then, for you to feel ... to say to him, "This is better talked about with your therapist."


PATIENT: Well his therapist is like, "I can't help him (inaudible) problem because it's hard enough not to take stuff home and I try really hard not to. But I've been doing that and what happens is I get home, I don't want to talk to my mom, I don't want to talk to Tony's parents, I don't ... I'm lucky, I want to talk Tony.


COUNSELOR: So you're kind of spent.


PATIENT: Right. And I get mad at Tony for doing that. And I told my mom about the weight thing, and she wrote me this long letter of apology and I was like, "You don't have to say ... I mean, I know you're sorry and you didn't know that it bothered ..." And then she wrote me an e-mail ... she's very ... she wrote me an e-mail, and then she wrote an e-mail to my other account saying, "Check your other account. I wrote you a letter." Then she called me. I was like, "I'm checking the e-mail." 


COUNSELOR: Sounds like she was really worried about how you felt.


PATIENT: It was like a four-page e-mail about the history of my mom and her relationship with me, which I know. And it was all ... she heard on Dr. Laura that a woman called in and said her mother is very overbearing. So she then interpreted it as if I had called, and explained why she is the way she is, which I already know. And I called her and I was like, "You don't have to explain that to me. If there's something on my mind, I'll tell you." And that was on my mind. And I took that opportunity to tell her that I don't want to know any more things about what Tony's parents think about me. And she's like, "Well how will you make it better?" And I said, "Because the things you're telling me are not true." His mom was worried I'm not a good cook, but I am. Or that I don't like to cook. And his dad is worried that I don't want to invite people over, but I do, and they'll figure it out because it's too much pressure. Now I don't even talk to his parents on the phone. Like every time I get on, I feel pressure, like I have to EXPLAIN something and I don't like it. So she was like, "Okay." She was fine on the phone, and then (inaudible) e-mail. [0:26:12]


COUNSELOR: So what is that like for you to have said what you said and then to get the e-mails and to kind of have her be really concerned about your relationship?


PATIENT: Well I had (inaudible). On Thursday she had dental surgery and I told Tony in the morning, I said, "My mom's having surgery today." And then John went to the hospital to get transferred ... whatever. It was a really hard day at work, really long, one of the most exhausting we've had probably since I started. I went home ... I don't remember what I did ... got home late and went to sleep and the next day I had tons of meetings, one with the new supervisor, one with my old supervisor, group meeting, and I was in the main meeting and my mom kept calling. And I was like, "What?" I finally, after the third call, I was like, "What? Are you okay? Is something wrong?" And she's like, "No, I just wanted to talk to you." And I was like, "Well I can't. I'm in a meeting." And I was kind of abrupt. And because I have this compulsion that I have to check my messages if they're on my phone just in case something's wrong with the client, I checked my messages and the first one was like, "You didn't call me after my surgery. Is everything okay with you?" And I felt SO bad. So I had to wait through the rest of the meeting to call her, and I felt so guilty that I hadn't remembered, and it really slipped my mind. I didn't remember at all during the day and not at all at night and not the next day. So in her letter that she wrote today, she said how she ... I'm a really good friend of hers and she doesn't have as much of a big friends circle and she likes to talk to me every day and she doesn't mean to pressure me, which only made me feel guilty that ... I WOULD like to talk to her every day, I just don't have it in me to have a good conversation with her, which I explained today. I said, "It's not that I don't want to talk to you or I don't know who you are, but you don't want to talk to me some days. Nothing weird about (inaudible) talking to me." Because we used to talk every day, and some days it could be like just touching base when she was depressed, but that's [six years ago] (ph). And she got used to it. And then ... and I don't want to have conversations like "Hi, how are you? I'm great. Bye." And she doesn't want to either. She wants to have a long conversation and then I feel even guiltier if I get on the phone with her and I don't focus on the conversation. So then I just say, "I can't talk right now." And then she says, "Well you don't want to talk to me." It wasn't phrased that way at all, but that's how I interpreted her. [0:28:46]


COUNSELOR: Wow, that sounds really tough ... tough exchange with your mother.


PATIENT: Yeah, because I don't think she ... Tony doesn't agree with me, but I don't think that she does any of it intentionally, like I don't think she's a passive-aggressive person, like purposely trying to make me feel guilty. I would feel worse if she did it that way, but I know it's purely innocent, just her saying whatever's on her mind and the same thing with the weight comments. For her, they're like ... she and Harold talk about her weight because she always loses and gains the same 10 pounds. But for me, every time she says that, I remember it. I told her that she told me at my best friend's wedding I had my hair pulled back in like a braid, and she loves bangs. She thinks everybody should have like a couple hairs in the front. All my life she's told me this. And so that day, I didn't, and she ... the first thing she saw me when I came back from (inaudible) she said, "Why does your hair look like that? It looks horrible." So every time I look at her wedding pictures, I think that I looked horrible. Or I don't think I looked horrible but I'll remember that she said that. And Tony hates bangs and he's been trying ... he's like, "It doesn't look bad," so now I have my (inaudible). And then I was telling her that example, I said, "YOU don't think it's that big a deal, but for me ..." [0:30:17]


COUNSELOR: So that took a lot ... sounds like it took a lot for you to actually share that with her.


PATIENT: It wasn't hard to say, because at the time when I said it, we had talked and I was ready to just get it off my chest. I don't think I was prepared for the e-mails. I mean, the one e-mail, fine. The e-mail I got today was enormous. I was like ... you know, and half of it's like "Well you were too young to remember how I was and I had all these friends and you're my last girlfriend ..." I was like; I would have been fine with the one e-mail. 


COUNSELOR: So it surprised you to get the second longer ...


PATIENT: Right. I don't know if she was depressed and if she was ... you know, the dental surgery, so she's sick and she's been sick, I told you, for a long time, so ...


COUNSELOR: So what's it like to ... I mean, you actually expressed your need to not contact her every single day?


PATIENT: No, I mean it's ... it's been already happening for the last year or so that I don't call her every day. But she made a point in the note to say that "I resist from calling you for four or five days, but in those four or five days, you don't call me either. So you must be fine with not talking to me every day." I had printed it out but I left it at work. I think that's how it was put. I didn't study the whole letter, but I skimmed it. I read it really fast. And I WOULD like to talk to her every day, but I'm not (chuckling) good to talk to her every day either, so ... 


COUNSELOR: There are very few people that you can talk to every day, I think, and have a lot to say. [0:32:02]


PATIENT: Well it used to be that we would talk every day and it wasn't a big deal to not, but sometimes she wants to have like an interesting conversation. It's like having a long-distance relationship, you know, like sometimes somebody wants to talk and the other person doesn't or I'll really be in the mood to talk and she's like, "I'm sorry, I was sleeping."


COUNSELOR: Sounds like there's some kind of pressure that comes with that, to talk every day, to feel like you have to have something interesting to share, to talk at length and you're not always in the mood necessarily to talk.


PATIENT: And my mom LOVES to talk. She can talk to anybody about anything anywhere anytime. So it's not hard for her to have a conversation, but if I'm not having a conversation with her, then it's like ... "I saw this on t.v. and you should do this with your house" and I ... you know, I told her it's like lecturing. She's like, "I'm not lecturing you, I'm giving you tips." And I said ... not recently, I told her a while ago, because Tony can't talk to my mom very often at all because he gets really frustrated. He also thinks that she's lecturing him, and I said, "You know you're giving me advice on like how to grow tomatoes, but I don't HAVE a garden and so the advice would be great when I have a garden. But to give me advice now on growing a tomato plant when that's the farthest thought from my mind, it doesn't make any sense to me." 


COUNSELOR: So she's kind of out of touch with where you're at in some ways.


PATIENT: I think ... I think that she just likes to talk to people. Like for Tony, if she knows that he likes something, she'll study ... he was doing like a circuit breaker or something, and she studied all about it and then she could talk to him about it. And he was like, "Why is she telling me all this stuff?" And I know it's because she just wanted an excuse to have like an interesting conversation with him, so she (inaudible) she works, but ...


COUNSELOR: But it sounds like she's really very ... so invested in being of interest when she talks to you or to Tony that she actually really extends herself to have something to say. [0:34:05]


PATIENT: Well I had told you when I saw my mom over the holiday that her dialogue with some of the people that she ... like my cousins, was really irritating me because they would ... I think my cousin was saying she does the exercise video, and my mom's like, "Well you should do this one because it's really good. Do you know about it?" And my cousin is like, "No." And then my mom went on and on about the video, and I said, "Mom, she's exercising. She has her own workout. I mean, what's the point of having a 15-minute conversation about why ... it makes it sound like your video is better." But I don't think her intention is that, I think her intention is just to have a conversation about whatever is going on. And then I told her all that stuff, and then she told me ... told me she was sick and started crying, so ...


COUNSELOR: And how was that for you then?


PATIENT: Well I had told you that it was ... I felt horrible that I had spent ... I had just reached my cab, she was ... she had told me that I was being too ... I shouldn't argue with her in public, so we were there alone and I told her what I was thinking and I ... you know, I just went ... before I was talking, just getting it all off my chest, and then she looked at me and ... I don't think that's (inaudible) change the subject, but she was sick and ... it was hard. I felt bad. Here's a woman who's already sick, and I'm giving her more stuff to deal with when for most of my relationship with my mom, that's been close because when my parents were still together, my mom didn't talk very much. That she's been very dependent on me and then I was telling her all these things that are wrong with her, and probably because I know that I would be upset if somebody said it to me (inaudible) take that stuff very personally. She acted like it bounced right off of her and was talking about being sick. She said ... it was nice, and she said, "Okay, well I didn't realize that." [0:36:11]


COUNSELOR: It sounds like such a tough place to be to want to be respectful of what your mom is going through and to be able to put yourself in her shoes and at the same time not feel like your emotional well-being is compromised at all and that you're getting what you need as well out of the relationship.


PATIENT: Yeah. I don't know why it is that every time I talk about my relationship with my mom, I get very emotional, you know? Like Tony ... anytime he says anything about my mom, I get super defensive and I feel like I have to defend her. But I don't ... most of the things he's saying; they're not that bad. Like the same things I'm saying, but it's okay for me to say them but I don't want him to say them about her.


COUNSELOR: What's making you emotional right now?


PATIENT: I think ... just because I feel bad for her. I don't like ... I just wanted her to be happy for so long, you know? And I know that ... I guess I feel bad like wouldn't a daughter want to talk to her mom? Why do I when I talk to her, I bite her head off?


COUNSELOR: So you don't feel like a very good daughter.


PATIENT: Maybe. 


COUNSELOR: Do you feel responsible for taking care of her and making her feel better?


PATIENT: Probably, because I did, when I was in high school, I called and checked up on her if she ... for like three days she didn't answer her phone. I was in a panic, you know? Nobody knew where she was, I didn't know whether she was alive, I didn't ... you know? She called me ... she didn't remember where she had been for three days, when I finally got a hold of her. I mean, I was in school, I didn't have a car, there was no way of ... I don't even think I would have known how to get to where she lives (inaudible). I think it did a little of that whole blocking it out, so I didn't have to think about it in the day, but when I would call her normally, it would be like she thrived on those conversations. You know, "How are you feeling today?" and she would cry for the rest of it. [0:38:31]


COUNSELOR: (inaudible)


PATIENT: But then when I moved to Ohio, she was better. I didn't see her all that much, but we still talked all the time, and I think she felt better knowing that I was only 15 minutes away instead of ...


But I'm feeling guilty about ... (inaudible) I don't know why, I think it's because I have this family reunion coming up ... when I was in high school, my mom's brothers and my mom came to my graduation, they came from Florida. And my dad was in town and I had to move out of the dorms and I was moving in with my friend and it's like the last time I was seeing a lot of people, and my mom's friends had a graduation party for me and I don't know why it's been on my mind lately, but my dad and I, it took us a lot longer to move out and then I wanted to see some of my friends. So by the time I got to the party, it was really late and everybody had been waiting for me and I always feel like I was so rude, you know? I really didn't know better at the time.


COUNSELOR: I'm wondering how we got to this place where you're [playing this out] (ph)?


PATIENT: I think it's because we're talking about guilt. It's just been on my mind a lot recently and I don't know why that memory keeps coming back.


COUNSELOR: You felt really guilty about ... you're feeling guilty about arriving so late to this event?


PATIENT: Not even paying attention to these people that paid money to fly in from Florida to come to my graduation that I spent probably less than hour with the whole weekend that they were here. I think it's because I have to see them.


COUNSELOR: Because you're going to be seeing them over the holiday? [0:40:05]


PATIENT: I've seen them many times since. I saw my cousin ... we went to see him in a swim meet, the son of one of my uncles that had come, and he was like busy with his friends and we had traveled all the way up to New Hampshire to see him and he was busy with his friends and it made me realize how I must have seemed.


COUNSELOR: That's how you felt about it ... about him not being ...


PATIENT: Yeah. Tony was like, "Mark, he wants to be with his friends," and I was like, "But I came up here. We could hang out." Tony is like, "Nothing personal, but I think he wants to hang out with his friends." I was like ...


COUNSELOR: So I wonder, are you able to take in that side of it too? That you were at an age where you probably wanted ...


PATIENT: Right, but I never felt guilty about it until that happened, which was like, last year. I never felt guilty about not spending time with them until he did that to me. And then I felt like ... and I even right away, just recently, I've been thinking like ... so rude of me.


COUNSELOR: I don't know, it seems kind of harsh because you were what age at that time?


PATIENT: Eighteen.


COUNSELOR: The world revolves around teenagers and ...


PATIENT: I know. And their friends.


COUNSELOR: Yeah. Their social network. It seems like you're being pretty hard on yourself about that.


PATIENT: And I know that, but I can't stop feeling guilty about it. (inaudible) get over it myself.


COUNSELOR: Well but it sounds like you expect something out of yourself that you feel you've let yourself down in some way or that you let other people down that's really important for you not to do that.


PATIENT: Yeah, I don't know what it is about ... maybe it is that sense of responsibility from my mom, that's why I get so ... I was thinking that I should just start putting her on my like ... rank her as one of my clients, like I have to spend time with, to make the time because it seems like that's what she needs. [0:42:19]


COUNSELOR: How is that (inaudible) say that?


PATIENT: Well at first I was joking about it with a colleague. Then I thought it makes sense, because I just forget about her. You know, she's not around. It's just like a ... so not a priority for me to talk to her when I'm busy and I explained to her today that sometimes I'm not in the mood, but I think I'm going to ... I still, you know honestly, I still probably talk to her every day. She sneaks in a phone call here every day, somewhere. I may not talk to her for very long, but thinking about it now, I probably DO talk to her every day. She'll call me ... reach me at work to ask me something or ... I got fired from a job once because my mom called me too much.


COUNSELOR: Wow. 


PATIENT: Well no, not fired, but it was one of my warnings. I had too many phone calls and I was like, "It's just my mom. It's not anybody else." (chuckling)


COUNSELOR: So what would happen if you didn't talk to your mom every day? 


PATIENT: Well because most of them are short, I haven't noticed anything, but then I'd probably get another one of these e-mails about how ... or she'll call me and be like, "Don't you miss talking to your mama?" And I'd say, "Yeah, I'm just really busy."


COUNSELOR: Sounds like a really tough place to be. The way that you have kind of taken it in now as that you're going to treat her like a client and it's almost like it's an obligation, like one other thing that you have to do in the day.


PATIENT: I didn't ... I'm just hoping that I got this e-mail and I really hadn't really thought about it, but then after this e-mail I was like, "Maybe that's just what she needs."


COUNSELOR: Can I ask you ... what were you hoping she was going to do as a result of what you shared with her? What was your ... like if you could have a fantasy of it working out just the way you'd want it to? [0:44:17]


PATIENT: What I thought is that she would just stop making the comments. It's not like she doesn't have anything else to talk about. (chuckling)


COUNSELOR: But instead, it seems like it got her to do even more ... or want to be even closer with you and talk more often.


PATIENT: I mean, I think she always wants to talk more often. The first e-mail, that was like kind of nice, I was like, "Well you didn't have to do that." I was like, "Maybe she misinterpreted what I said," although I don't think I said it incorrectly. And then when I talked to her, I was like ... you know, I called her and said, "I just read your e-mail and ..." She had called me to tell me that I had to check my e-mail right away, it was like 10:00 at night ... and I said, "You didn't have to write that," I said, "I know you don't mean it. That's why I told you how I felt." I think she probably has been meaning to tell me how much she wants to talk more often anyway because she always feels that way and it was just a great opportunity to ... while she was ... she writes like ... what's it called when you just write whatever is on your mind? You know? Free ... it's called free ...


COUNSELOR: Kind of free- association?


PATIENT: Yeah. And maybe she spell-checks, but ... so that's what her letters are like, just like a long ... 


COUNSELOR: Well we need to end for today, but I have to say that my heart goes out to you because it seems like a tough place to be. In an ideal world, you'd be able to say to her, "Well Mom look, this is what I really intended was that you know I'm sensitive about this and I just don't want you to bring it up with me but everything else is okay as far as our relationship goes," or something to that effect. [0:46:15]


PATIENT: Yeah, which I thought I did after the first e-mail. I mean, I keep telling her to look at the positives, you know? Like is something wrong with her marriage or ... you know, and she's like, "No, I have a great husband and great job." Her job is ... so now I don't understand why NOW she needs me more than she did when things weren't so good.


COUNSELOR: Well just in closing for today, I can say that when you start to assert yourself in relationships or when you start to engage in relationships differently than what you normally would do, it oftentimes has the effect of really frightening the other person and making them feel like, "Oh my gosh, am I losing this person? Am I losing the relationship?" That's not in effect what you want or what you're trying to do, but the other person may feel that. So your mom may be feeling like she's losing you or you're pulling away and without her realizing it, she's in effect making it more difficult for you to engage with her in a genuine way. But it sounds like it's a reaction to you kind of saying what you need to say. It's scary for her.


PATIENT: The thing is, I had that conversation with her today, and I felt she wasn't even listening to what I was saying in response to her e-mail. I feel like I'm going to have to write something. First of all, I'm not really good at ... can express myself better in words anyway. But she'll change the subject. Well it feels good to get that off my chest. I wasn't really thinking about it when I (inaudible) it was obviously on my mind.


COUNSELOR: Yeah.


PATIENT: Okay. I owe you some money.


COUNSELOR: Yeah. Are you able to pay the full amount, or do you need to ...


PATIENT: How much is it?


COUNSELOR: It's 160.


PATIENT: Yes. I am.


COUNSELOR: Can you do that? Are you ...?


PATIENT: Money is tight, but I'll have some ... all of my reimbursements came back. [0:48:16]


COUNSELOR: How is Wednesday night for you to come in?


PATIENT: It's tough.


COUNSELOR: It's tougher?


PATIENT: Because usually Wednesdays I've been sitting ... I mean, any time I'm ... after ... this late is harder for me because I'm done with work at 5:00.


COUNSELOR: Okay. So it makes for a very long day.


PATIENT: Yeah. I thought that I would never make it this far today. I thought about calling you and I was like ... I couldn't focus on anything at work and I thought, "Well, I should see my clients," and then I perked up. And then I thought I'd walk down here.


COUNSELOR: Well I'm glad you didn't cancel.


PATIENT: Me too. (inaudible) here.


COUNSELOR: It is. It's the (inaudible) I have to go turn it off. The one thing that I meant to mention actually is I'm going to be taking some time off over the holidays, so I'm actually going to be away for two Tuesdays, so I don't know if you want to just ...


PATIENT: Yeah, because I'm going to be away for one of those Tuesdays anyway.


COUNSELOR: You are. Okay. 


PATIENT: I'm going to be away the 21st through the 2nd.


COUNSELOR: Okay.


PATIENT: So the 25th is Christmas. And then the 2nd (inaudible)


COUNSELOR: Okay, so we may have a few weeks where we may not see each other. I guess we'll figure that out next week when we see each other?


PATIENT: Okay.


COUNSELOR: Great. Thank you.


PATIENT: No problem. And then I need the questionnaire things?


COUNSELOR: That's right. 


PATIENT: I was forgetting to do those and I have a new system when you give them to me, I number them all and fill out all the information and then I just grab that one the week that we are meeting. With me, all my systems are good systems, but (inaudible). 


COUNSELOR: Yeah, it can be challenging (inaudible) tell you when.


PATIENT: (inaudible) how many envelopes I [mail in] (ph)?


COUNSELOR: Oh, the envelopes that you mail. Yeah. Oh, that's a good point. Tell you what, why don't you bring them in with ... bring in the one that you complete with you the next time, and I'll have the envelopes, and you can actually put it in the envelope here and just leave it here with inter-office. Sorry about that, I didn't ... completely drew a blank at the envelopes. All right. (inaudible) for you next time. (inaudible) So pleased with myself that I had gotten the questionnaires and I blanked on the ...


PATIENT: I was like, "Why are you scratching out the gray (inaudible)?" All right. Thank you.


COUNSELOR: All right. Take care.


END TRANSCRIPT
