<font size="4"><b>Chapter IX</b></font>

A most delightful experience was my meeting with
Dr. Openchowski, Court Psychiatrist for Newark, New
Jersey, and the County of Essex. I had met this wonderful
man thirteen years before, but because of my mental condition
then, I could not recognize or appreciate his inspiring
manner. From the county jail of Newark, where I was
awaiting a hearing, I was taken to him for a kst and enjoyable
interview. The warmth and congeniality with
which he greeted me vanished all my doubts about adjustment.
He related to me my condition of thirteen years
before. I detected that he was amazed at the final results.
I did not look the same. The furrowed lines of depression
and anxiety no longer creased my forehead. As he talked
on about the improvements I had made, I realized that he,
too, was receiving his reward, the reward of knowing that
a proper decision had been made. He committed me to
the building for the criminally insane because he felt,
thirteen years before that it was the proper course. And
now, after all that time, he was happy over the final results.
I somehow knew what he felt. Tears filled my eyes.
I wept uncontrollably. I could not help but think of the
man who sat before me as the man who had decided my
fate. He, together with Dr. Charles Englander (now deceased),
had given me another chance at life.

[p. <i>88</i>]

Following my soul-inspiring interview with Dr. Openchowski,
I was to meet my court-appointed counselor
(James J. Sheeran). I cannot find words to describe my
new-found friends and wonderment. I truly felt as if I
had stepped out of a dark and dismal past into a world
of gleaming brightness. In view of my joyful optimism,
my attorney warned me of the job before us. It is not my
wish to bore the reader by relating the course and procedure
taken by the law to return me to society. It is,
instead, my utmost desire to inform the public of the untiring
efforts of those responsible for my new-found ideals.
Many, many years of study were involved in the process
of my care and cure. I can never repay the many wonderful
and devoted psychiatrists, technicians, attendants, and
psychiatric aids who were a part of that process. And last,
but by no means least of all, my lawyer. The brilliance
of his defense on my behalf is something I will long remember.


Pay? These people expect no pay from me. Probably
their names are of no importance to those who will read
of them, but to the one out of every ten Americans who
will be listed as a "mental statistic," they are God-sent.


Over the sparsely-filled courtroom there hung a heavy
silence as the stoic-faced jurymen filed in. On the testimonies
of four psychiatrists and my own, their decision
was to be based. My lawyer had put up a brilliant defense
which had been wittily absorbed by a young reputable
prosecutor. The prosecutor had cautioned the jury concerning
the job at hand. To them was left the final decision.
If, in their opinion, they felt that I was a threat to
myself and not society at the time of the crime, I was not
to be held responsible for the crime. But if they felt that
my act had been against society, I should be held responsible,
and thus subjected to a trial by jury. With my lawyer's

[p. <i>89</i>]

Because of the testimonies of the four psychiatrists,
the possibility that I was malingering was ruled out. An
episode that had lasted over a decade was reaching its
climax. A sudden chill came over me as the jurymen stood
up to render their all-important verdict. I had so often
thought of the wonderful thing that had been done for
me. I prayed for a chance to repay, in some way, a wonderful
profession.


"I would devote my Me to the care of the mentally ill,"
I thought to myself. "I understand them so well. I know
I can be of some help to them."


In a clear and distinct voice, the juryman read the
verdict:


"Your Honor," he said, "we rule that the defendant at
the time of the crime was legally insane I And we now feel
that he is no longer a danger to himself or to others."


As the words penetrated my senses, the muscles of my
neck would no longer respond to voluntary reaction to
hold up my head. My chin fell to my chest, and the tears
spotted my freshly washed khaki pants. Over the numbness
of my racing emotions, I felt my lawyer's hand. He
was helping me to my feet and trying to console me. It
was all over. I was a free man.


"The judge would like to see you," my lawyer said
to me. With his arm about me for support, he led me into

[p. <i>90</i>]

"Lane," he said, "we here know what you have been
through. We know all that has gone into your care and
cure. You have an obligation to fulfill. Don't let us down."


The understanding of those few blunt phrases was
clear to me.


"I will not let them down," I thought to myself.
Through tear-reddened eyes, I looked at the faces in the
room. They knew what I felt. I thanked the judge with
an emotion-packed voice for his thoughtful consideration,
and assured him of my sincere intentions. With my lawyer
beside me, I started from the courtroom. Before going
through the large oak doors, I paused briefly to shake the
hand of my doctor. I could not find words to express my
heartfelt gratitude. What could I say? Thank you? Somehow
I felt that that was not enough. My attention was
drawn to the white hair that now covered his head. I
remembered when I had first seen him. I had the strange
feeling that I had contributed enormously to the color
change of his hair. With my lawyer clinging faithfully to
my side, I walked from the courtroom.


The opportunity to test my rearranged pattern of
thought and ideals was drawing near. As I stood at the
top of the courthouse steps gazing into the streets below,
I became frightened at the realities of the outside world,
I summoned the courage to meet my growing anxieties.
My lawyer looked at me and spoke with penetrating intent:


"Lane," he said, "remember we have done all that we
can do for you. The rest is up to you. You have a lot of
wonderful new ideas. Don't expect conditions always to
be as you would like them to be. If you should meet with
obstacles, be patient and have faith."


I shook his hand appreciatively, and thanked him from

[p. <i>91</i>]

My gait increased with the approach of each new
obstacle. The hustle and bustle of the passing public, the
roar of racing motors, mingled with the happy sounds of
children's laughter, increased my delight. My mind raced
back over the years. "There must be something I can do,"
I thought to myself, "to inform the public of the existence
of a growing and frightening situation."


I then remembered a promise to myself: I would attempt,
through writing, to inform the public of my developing
disorder, my progress toward a cure, and of the
existing conditions that plague our society.


I was inspired to write and made conscious of the dire
need for such public information as I sat watching, in
1956, "Art Linkletter's House Party."


I had been secluded to a back ward because of a temper
outburst. Together with the patients of the ward, I
looked forward to the "house party" program as the highlight
of the day. We enjoyed the admirable qualities with
which Mr. Linkletter handled the school children who
were always on his program. As he proceeded with his
genius to extract from the children funny sayings and
humor, the back of a figure loomed before the camera.
It was the back of a woman who, uninvited, had come
upon the stage. In the sight of millions of viewers, she
nervously accused Mr. Linkletter of arrogance and pomposity.
She accused him of using the children to support
a malicious aim.


I watched, as did Mr. Linkletter, with open-mouthed
astonishment the pitiful display. His efforts to assure the

[p. <i>92</i>]

The seriousness of existing conditions and the mounting
mental disorders in our society struck me with full
force. I vowed that I would give what I hoped to be an
informative account, hoping that by doing so I could aid
the public in its fight to avoid another "mental statistic."

