TRANSCRIPT OF AUDIO FILE:
______________________________________________________________________________
BEGIN TRANSCRIPT:
COUNSELOR: Interview 4; interview 4.
CLIENT: (Inaudible)
COUNSELOR: Yourself?
CLIENT: It was really very good. I had a really good time. I went to Milwaukee, where Don is and I was up there Friday until Wednesday and we had a really, very good time, I... and then I came back Wednesday and I went and visited my folks Friday and Saturday, Sunday. And I guess one of the things that kind of occurred to me during the weekend because we really... I had a really good time and I began wondering how much of what we've been talking about and things that like I've thought really been troubled, troubling me are, are unrealistic. Like the confusion thing coming into it because I guess I felt very good in terms of relating and, and feeling and sharing and, and loving and things like that that were really good and I just wondered how much of some of my troubles are all imaginary. [0:01:39.6]
COUNSELOR: Uh-huh. It's kind of like in the last week or so you've kind of felt yourself to be different then kind of hear you talking about.
CLIENT: Well, no, not necessarily different. I was... like Milwaukee's really a long way so I had to drive up by myself and I was doing a lot of thinking and I was thinking about some of the stuff that we've been talking about and in one way it seemed to me that some of the things that I feel about myself or that I've said to you that confusion and things tend to not... I'm wondering how much of that is a past part of me and, and like I guess have seen myself grow at least to some extent in, in being able to feel emotions. Like I think I still have difficulty expressing them and all, but feeling emotions and, and some of the things I've said are just sort of carryovers from, from several years ago and I wa-was in a very superficial relationship with people around me. Like last, last Thursday I just had a really down day in terms of a group that I'm working, girls that I work with in a (inaudible at 0:02:58.0) and like the whole thing isn't working. It just never has been very successful and I was very frustrated and I really felt bad, like I felt hurt because it wasn't working, frustrated and lots of things and to some extent I was able to say that to the kids that I'm working with. To some extent I was also able to say that to the man I work with. Th-though it didn't help me feel any better, like the feelings were still there. [0:03:28.5]
COUNSELOR: You could say it.
CLIENT: I felt like, yeah, I was able to say it.
COUNSELOR: Not just keep it inside.
CLIENT: Yeah. At least limitedly, like it was a... like, at least be, I was able to say something about it, about the feelings that I had inside and I guess I looked at that as kind of good. At least, at least that was kind of a good thing. Yeah, so those are some of the things that, that and then I thought of driving up Friday, that, that I... I'm still very confused about what's... [0:04:07.0]
COUNSELOR: Yeah, I sense you're kind of confused about what's really me, what's real in me. Is the confusion real or is that something kind of I'm making up.
CLIENT: Yeah.
COUNSELOR: Because I didn't feel that way.
CLIENT: Yeah, it's like one thing I really see is that I'm... since we've been, been meeting I really feel like I'm a little more aware of whether I'm feeling emotions and also whether I'm expressing them and I guess I begin to see that, that the feelings are there, sometimes they're not always identifiable as why... what they are or why they're there. And like I guess Thursday I didn't feel as though I was looking at myself either. It felt like, I was just feeling really cruddy and it didn't have anything to do with objectifying the situation and saying I should be feeling that way because of what a cruddy situation it was. It was... I was just really there. And like the weekend too, I didn't feel as much as I was looking at myself. [0:05:24.9]
COUNSELOR: Do you mean like you kind of felt like you just were and you weren't trying to examine what's real and when you found when you could just do that it was okay?
CLIENT: Well I don't know if it's that or as I was just much more aware of... as a result of our talking I guess I've been conscious of what... I'm trying to be conscious of whether I'm observing myself or just really feeling that way and I, and I guess I see myself in s... and I... that Thursday I really was there to, like over the weekend I don't think that, that I was looking at myself and saying like you should be feeling this or look at you're doing this and, and that. [0:06:04.3]
COUNSELOR: You just weren't standing watching yourself, you were just kind of living.
CLIENT: Yeah, I think so.
COUNSELOR: It sounds like you're not too sure of that either, though.
CLIENT: Well, yeah, not real sure.
COUNSELOR: Yeah, I s-because I really sense kind out of all of this, you really did feel really unsure about what's really you and how you do live.
CLIENT: Yeah, but what I'm also saying is that, that I begin to suspect also that, that I really am feeling as real and not as observing myself.
COUNSELOR: Mm-hmm. You're there.
CLIENT: Yeah. Yeah and I guess I came away with that feeling good about it and like that was... I felt very close to Sarge and very shared and enjoying sharing being together and -  [0:07:05.5]
COUNSELOR: Felt sharing.
CLIENT: Yeah. Yeah, like I guess it's sort of like I feel like I'm in an up situation now and feeling much better than I was before. It doesn't erase the confusion about why all the questions come up when I'm feeling down over a stretch of time.
COUNSELOR: But it's kind of like you're not quite feeling all those questions right now.
CLIENT: Yeah.
COUNSELOR: Kind of having more of a sense that you're living with air.
CLIENT: Yeah, I guess it came to me - 
COUNSELOR: You're not watching living.
CLIENT: Yeah. I, I... the confusion comes around to me most emphatically when I think of well how unreal... how unreal is the confusion or the questioning of whether I really feel emotions or not or much of it is just an imaginary kind of thing. I guess that's what, what's confusing right now is I feel good. Is when I'm down ima-imagining things. [0:08:07.0]
COUNSELOR: Yeah, but, I mean I guess that would mean then that you make yourself down or - 
CLIENT: Maybe, I, maybe it is, I don't know. Or like when I - 
COUNSELOR: By kind of asking yourself questions and watching yourself. That confuses you, helps you feel down.
CLIENT: Yeah. Wait, say that again.
COUNSELOR: Kind of what you had said was that it's when you feel, you kind of ask questions of yourself that makes you feel confused.
CLIENT: When I'm depressed.
COUNSELOR: Oh, I see.
CLIENT: And when I'm depressed, I look at it... I look at myself and see things that I don't like and wonder whether I'm able to really feel emotions or express them and stuff like that.
COUNSELOR: I see. So it's kind of like when you... when it's going... it's really when you're feeling up like now, it's like you don't, you don't really question or examine yourself; when you're feeling down, it's kind of you get into a very introspective self-examination thing and kind of makes you feel disoriented and very unsure of yourself, kind of very shaky, not sure what kind of ground you're standing on? [0:09:13.8]
CLIENT: Yeah, I think I question myself and who I am and what I am more when I'm depressed than I do when I'm not. I don't (inaudible at 0:09:24.9) that, the bad things become much more prominent.
COUNSELOR: It's kind of like the depression colors the, the way you look at yourself, accentuates the bad.
CLIENT: Yeah, yeah, I think it does, very much. I don't think I'm as apt, as you said, to look at myself when I'm feeling good about myself and what things that are happening as I do, when I'm down. Yeah. I guess the other thing that I, well I don't... I don't know whether there's more to pursue and, where (ph) I'm that, but the other thing that I was thinking also the last time we met we started getting into it is, how much there's, the confusion and all, like being home with my parents and all this past weekend I was thinking how... what relationships were like when I was growing up or and why I am depre- why when I'm depressed I question all these things and wondering whether the influence around in terms of my growing up living with my parents has an influence on the, on the depression thing -  [0:10:45.7]
COUNSELOR: On (crosstalk) 
CLIENT:  - and I guess I, I'm not sure, I do a lot of blaming them for my inadequacies. Like I'll say that when I was a child my father was very wrapped up in his career as a minister and doing things for other people and I didn't see him very often and when, when I did see him, I don't remember - 
COUNSELOR: Him doing things for you.
CLIENT: Not feeling wise things.
COUNSELOR: Like he didn't show his affection.
CLIENT: Yeah, like I can't - 
COUNSELOR: (Crosstalk)
CLIENT:  - remember my father showing affection - 
COUNSELOR: You didn't know he cared.
CLIENT: Well I guess I always felt like, that he cared but he didn't, it wa-it was like not an over-not an overwhelming affection or showing that, yeah. Because there are times like I know my father's done things for me, and sometimes been around when I needed to talk to someone, but, but I guess it's, I'm not convinced of how much affection comes through in that. Even as I look at him today, he's a very understanding man, but, but it comes across in almost a business like way, rather than in an -  [0:12:13.4]
COUNSELOR: I see. Kind of like it's, he's caring, but it's kind of like a, a routine. I mean it's his, but you're not kind of sure if it's really something special and - 
CLIENT: Yeah, almost.
COUNSELOR:  - meaningful.
CLIENT: Almost. And I, and I look at myself sometimes in caring as I, as I'm looking at myself and this is - 
COUNSELOR: I see.
CLIENT:  - the way I should be.
COUNSELOR: I see. Kind of like it's a something you should do, a routine, but it's kind of like something you see yourself in your father, like it just doesn't kind of flow naturally because it's something meaningful that you want to really - 
CLIENT: Yeah.
COUNSELOR:  - it just comes natural. [0:12:50.4]
CLIENT: Yeah, right, yeah. And it, like it's really hard to, like it's hard for me to say that it's really true or not. Like I think of times and I remember one time when I was in third grade, I think it was, and I had a really bad time at school and I left school and ran away and ran home and instead of running over to where my mother was, I ran to the church, which is right next door, to where my dad was and talked to him. So I always used to think my mother was too emotional to be able to, and too much like a parent saying well you have to go back to school kind of thing, but I always thought my father could talk more rationally about the, the reason I was very uncomfortable at school. I was, I was very emotionally upset about what had happened, because kids were making fun of me, and I ran home. And I remember him being able to listen and, and very rationally say, well, let's call the school and see what's going on, you know, that kind of thing but I can't remember him hugging me or anything like that to try to -  [0:13:51.4]
COUNSELOR: Comforting you.
CLIENT: Yeah, comforting me.
COUNSELOR: Yeah, it's like he was kind of there and handled, handled you and kind of his feelings for you not like what seemed like a human, warm, loving way, but more in kind of a rational, practical, pragmatic way.
CLIENT: Yeah, yeah, right. It seems strange like I used to always do that, like if I'd done something wrong I'd go to my father before I'd go to my mother because my mother I'd always thought was so emotional, she'd either blow her stack and...
COUNSELOR: And do you kind of wonder like well maybe I'm kind of the way I am with my emotions because well that's kind of the way my father was and...
CLIENT: Yeah, I do.
COUNSELOR: And I always look to that way, rather than emotional, like my, my mother. [0:14:35.3]
CLIENT: Yeah, I guess partially, like I think I'm very much like my mother, I look very much like her, like a sense of humor, all kinds of things, I'm very similar to my mother and I always look like the intellectual part of me comes from my father, the pragmatic, being practical about, that kind of thing and when I wanted... I'm not, I'm not so sure. I was going to say that when I wanted somebody to cry to or something it was more like with my mother, but I'm not, I'm not sure about that. I just know that she was more of the emotional parent reacting, that's wrong, that's right kind of thing. E-even now, as I, as of I, like I'm the youngest in the family, my two brothers are married, and so like I'm really spoiled now. My mother does all these things for me because I'm the only girl in the family [the less she hasn't] (ph) and almost feel like, I always, as I was going through college and now I will throw things at them because I'm also doing things much differently than either of my brothers did. Sometimes I throw them out just for a reaction, and I know I'll get a reaction from my mother, almost like an irrational reaction like, "You can't do that." And from my father, more of a, a rational looking and -  [0:16:13.8]
COUNSELOR: Well, let's see - 
CLIENT: Yeah.
COUNSELOR:  - kind of attitude (inaudible).
CLIENT: Yeah. Yeah. But I guess the thing is I don't know how fair that is to, because I do, I think I blame them for the qualities I have.
COUNSELOR: Uh-huh, and kind of you say to yourself, "Well I can see how I came from what I am kind of came from them," but so what?
CLIENT: Yeah, I guess that's what it is, so what. Yeah. I don't know if I - 
COUNSELOR: That's nice to know or (crosstalk) needs to know. Is that what you kind of say?
CLIENT: Yeah, I don't know if I'm expecting that, that looking at that and saying, well okay maybe that is somewhat true. I don't know if I'm expecting that to give me some - 
COUNSELOR: Change or something.
CLIENT:  - revelation about where to go.
COUNSELOR: Well it looks like it doesn't. [0:17:07.4]
CLIENT: No, I... well I don't know if it does except that I'm also very determined that I don't want to be like them in a lot of ways and, and that kind of goes back to the wanting to change some of the things about me and not knowing how. Maybe it because of whether it's really necessary.
COUNSELOR: Yeah, getting back to kind of are these things only things that I feel when I'm down?
CLIENT: Yeah, are they like imagination things. Like the other day I was thinking, and this was I was looking at myself but I was saying, like why the hell do you get depressed about things when look at, look at the kinds of things you do and most often I'm able to be successful at what I want to do and things are really going my way and things are really up right now, why the confusion when I s-so deeply, when I'm depressed. [0:18:15.8]
COUNSELOR: Yeah, I really kind of sense it's like, I'm really kind of getting a picture like you feel almost like two different people sometimes. Like there's the you who feels down and questions yourself and really kind of you don't know, you may be imagining all sorts of kind of unsurenesses about yourself but then the you when you're feeling up, really feels kind of like you're on solid ground. You (inaudible at 0:18:42.8) do experience things and you can share, it's kind of like they're almost completely... one is kind of fuller and the other kind of looks at all the emptiness and says I don't have these things and the other one feels them. But you do have them and you don't even kind of ask yourself, you just know they're there or something. [0:19:05.1]
CLIENT: It's (inaudible) like almost two separate persons. Yeah. I used to, and I think I still do in some ways, have a kind of a philosophy about being with different people and that a person's personality is pretty much different, reacting and being with different individuals or different groups of people, but I've never thought of it in terms of myself as a being having... kind of reacting to myself - 
COUNSELOR: To reacting to yourself, yeah.
CLIENT:  - separately. I, I - 
COUNSELOR: It looks like it confuses you.
CLIENT: Well, it confu- it's confusing to the extent of maybe, I don't know what more to say or where to go with it and maybe it's worth looking at more or something, I don't know. [0:20:08.5]
COUNSELOR: Yeah, but what do you, what do you, like when you were saying, kind of seeing people have different... that you can feel kind of the poles (ph), and what... how does that make you feel? Because you look confused, I...
CLIENT: I don't know, I hadn't thought of it since, so drastically different. I, I'm not sure how it, how it strikes me to... so that I guess I... that just people are different when they're depressed and when they're... and, and I, and I'm abstracting it because I think that the people are different when they - 
COUNSELOR: Yeah, but what you're - 
CLIENT:  - depressed and when they're - 
COUNSELOR:  - what you're really saying it's kind of like to s-when you see the self you are when you feel depressed like that really bothers you. [0:21:01.4]
CLIENT: Well, yeah, because that's when, when all the... now I'm reacting like all the ridiculous things I question come out. Some of the things that came out to me like during the past week, and a half are that, that the things I've been sharing with you and the confusion and all are not so very different from the way other people are feeling about themselves, too. People I'm living with, Don, people I'm working with, but the same kinds of things hit them and I guess for a while I've been thinking that and it was my own hassle, my own problem and it was very different from anyone else's and maybe that's part of why I, I'm not sure how much it's just imagination because I'm seeing that, well other people are feeling similar ways. Similar confusions about being real or being unreal. And feeling. So that's, so that if, if being depressed and being up and feeling good are two different people in a way, so what? [0:22:23.7]
COUNSELOR: Yeah, it's kind of like well that's how people are, (inaudible) it doesn't bother you really.
CLIENT: Well, yeah, and I'm not saying it doesn't bother me, it still does. I, I'm looking to kind of integrate myself and, and...
COUNSELOR: Yeah, you really kind of want to be able to say, well like when I feel down those are the kinds of things I see, I mean I, but I also want to be able to keep the, the knowledge that I, that's not the way I am, that's the way I feel I am when I'm this way and kind of integrate those two kinds of things and kind of be able to accept them both.
CLIENT: Yeah, I think so. I don't... I'm not sure, but it sounds good. I don't know.
COUNSELOR: And you don't know what that would be like. Is that what you mean? [0:23:21.6]
CLIENT: Yeah, I guess I don't know what it would be like, I don't know if it's possible. Because it seems like, oh it's so easy feeling good now to not look at or like not deal with what I was feeling like when I was depressed but I also feel like I realize maybe that's the time to deal with what I felt like when I was depressed. I don't think it's changing, I don't know, like the re-(inaudible at 0:23:55.5) responses I don't think it's going to change like if I get, when I get down again and feel depressed, I don't think I can take the de-the feelings, the good feelings to dominate over the bad ones. [0:24:10.5]
COUNSELOR: Yeah, but you know what kind of, depression is kind of a spiraling thing. When you feel bad, you start to question all the things about yourself - 
CLIENT: Which makes you feel worse.
COUNSELOR:  - which makes you feel worse.
CLIENT: Yeah, which is why, like I'm not sure if I can put them together. It's like when I'm feeling depressed, I can, I can say well like when you're feeling good, look at all the good things that happen and how... and I can, but it doesn't take away from the depression - 
COUNSELOR: (Crosstalk)
CLIENT:  - or the feelings that come - 
COUNSELOR: It sounds like you can say it but it sure doesn't... kind of like you can't feel it (background noise).
CLIENT: It doesn't help, yeah (background noise) yeah it doesn't reach to pull me out of feeling depressed. Yeah.
COUNSELOR: Well, how are you feeling (inaudible at 0:25:00.0) you're feeling good now, how do you feel like when you look at yourself, how do you, what do you see? [0:25:06.8]
CLIENT: Well...
COUNSELOR: Yeah, that' s a hard question.
CLIENT: I see that my experience well, like last week was good that even though like last Thursday was a down day really I look at it as well I moved someplace because I was really feeling down about a, something around work, but I felt it like fully I think and I was able to even express it to some extent and I look at that as like a growth sort of thing. That I look at last week when I was in Milwaukee as a really pleasurable time, arguments were going on every once in a while, but they weren't serious kinds of things and looking at arguments, I think you have to be re-I, I feel like I have to be rational, okay, argue now be rational about solving it because otherwise it's ridiculous. I don't know looking at myself like today I'm, I feel some anxieties today like about, I still feel kind of anxious when I come here about what, what I'm going to say, or what's going to transpire. I have anxious feelings about going to fieldwork this evening. I've been offered an opportunity to do some training of volunteer workers and that's like scary to me and it brings out feelings of I'm not -  [0:26:59.6]
COUNSELOR: Unsureness.
CLIENT:  - sure about my capabilities of doing that. That also came about last Thursday and just added to kind of the pressures that were going on that day, I don't feel as scared about it today as I did last Thursday when I was ready to just quit because I didn't think I'd be able to do it. I'm still not sure, but, but I'm willing to try it now - 
COUNSELOR: Yeah, kind of like, I sense what you're saying there that kind of common thing is well I have things I feel unsure about, now I know I can feel anxious, you feel anxious about coming here from what you're saying, you feel anxious about when you came up on, kind of like you can, they're not overwhelming, they don't cause you to get thrown.
CLIENT: Yeah.
COUNSELOR: It's like well you know I feel anxious but I can give it a whirl. [0:27:50.9]
CLIENT: Yeah, like I feel more confident... last Thursday I was just ready to say, look I, I'm... I don't think I'm capable of doing that and I'd just as soon quit and I was really very tempted to do that and then... one thing about having talked about it, like I was expressing some of the ways I felt to the m-to the guy I work with and he's a very supportive man, and it, though I really didn't accept that support like I still felt incapable, it was encouraging sort of to put me through that day so that over the weekend I be, my feelings began to build in terms of good feelings and now I feel much better able to deal with that challenge. Like my confidence is a little stronger than it was - 
COUNSELOR: Yeah, it's kind of like the movement is forward or something to kind of like the momentum.
CLIENT: Yeah. [0:28:50.1]
COUNSELOR: That's the way you feel and it's kind of like things can crop up, there are worries, there are anxieties, but you can feel like you can take them in stride and see what happens.
CLIENT: Yeah, I guess like today I'm feeling like I'll take it on and I, even anticipating, I'm not anticipating failure, I may anticipate, well it might not work out as well as I want it to, but I'm feeling today more accepting of that.
COUNSELOR: Like okay if it doesn't work out, it's not the end of the world, it doesn't mean I'm a, incompetent off of - 
CLIENT: Yeah.
COUNSELOR:  - worthless.
CLIENT: Yeah, I guess, see, this is like last Thursday I was feeling very incompetent like, like the Jefferey (inaudible at 0:29:39.9) thing, I'd reached my point and it was really depressing because it was very frightening that here I am being prepared to go out and do that kind of thing feeling that I'm not really capable of doing it. And I don't know how much having been able to express it was helpful in resolving -  [0:29:57.6]
COUNSELOR: Kind of switching the direction of it.
CLIENT: Yeah, because like now I'm willing to try it that, that okay I am new at some of this stuff and one can't, like one or me, I can't expect to succeed completely when I'm first starting and it takes experience and it takes learning to grow on it. I'm willing to accept that today, but I couldn't accept it last week.
COUNSELOR: Right. Kind of now it's like it's a negative, but not a throwing negative, it's kind of something to get through and kind of learn from.
CLIENT: Yeah.
COUNSELOR: What it, can you tell me what you did feel like Thursday, I mean what happened? I mean -  [0:30:37.7]
CLIENT: Well, okay what happened is this group of kids, there's four kids in a group and two girls come very regularly and two... one of the... the third one comes fairly regularly and the fourth one is, comes very inconsistently. So that cohesion is somewhat questionable but, well, our intentions are to look at problems sort of and look towards solving them together as a group. We haven't done that, if we do deal with problems that somebody has, it's almost like myself and that person and occasionally somebody puts in and put... sometimes somebody runs out of the room, comes back. A kid might be reading a magazine and not my idea of a cohesive - 
COUNSELOR: Cohesive group. [0:31:24.0]
CLIENT:  - group and I, I've had growing feelings of frustration around why the hell can't I get this together to the point where sometimes I don't even bother to try and plan anything. So I was feeling really anxious. Well then I got there and the guy that I work with, Gary and I talked about it a little bit beforehand and he was saying well, he's got a new guy working full-time for him and was saying that one of the girls had told him that the group wasn't doing anything. Well I'd expressed this to Gary before, but, but the kids hadn't been able to express it to me. I'd said to them, look we're not doing anything. Well, okay, so it comes third-hand to me that they aren't happy with it and like, whoo, that made me feel really bad because  - 
COUNSELOR: (Inaudible at 0:32:11.0)
CLIENT: Yeah, well because even though I'd said it, coming from one of the kids in the group is like a real recognition of it.
COUNSELOR: Mm-hmm it's like, it's like you said, but boy they saw it, too.
CLIENT: Yeah.
COUNSELOR: They saw you as a failure kind of.
CLIENT: Yeah. And I said well like this group (inaudible at 0:32:29.7) I'm not needed for this for these kids to get together. Which is something he picked on that my feelings of not being needed and pointed that out to me and that made me feel even worse and I almost felt like crying, but I... and it felt like, not, that's silly. I mean it's not the end of the world. I'm sort of looking at myself, that's, it's not the end of the world. Okay let's try it today. And so Gary suggested that maybe this girl who had expressed the thing about not being a very good group might bring that up in the group today and we could deal it out, what to do about this, the group. Well she didn't come. The other girl that doesn't come very often, didn't come and the other two were there and they both had some real issues to deal, one kid had been kicked out of the house. Another kid's boyfriend had broken up with her, so we had some things to talk about. Well, we couldn't talk about them together. I just couldn't bring them together on it, so the one girl and I talked for a while, the other one sat there and read the newspaper. Then we got to her and the third one sat there, had heard that al-had already heard about it because they're friends and ma-and there was no interaction among them. [0:33:47.2]
COUNSELOR: There was, yeah, it was you to them, each of them individually, but nothing between them.
CLIENT: Yeah. So, like that also made me feel very insensitive, like I was feeling like there must be something I'm being very insensitive to but I can't bring us together on it. Like and I, finally I got really upset and I said look, I don't think there's any reason for us to meet as a group anymore. Like I got... I was angry that... at myself, at them, and I said I didn't feel like I was needed for the group to meet, that, that I was an-I told them that I was kind of an-well, no I didn't say I was angry, I said I was frustrated about it and one girl whose... who'd been kicked out of the house, now she'd not, had had a relatively good exchange of looking at that problem so she was more willing to say, well let's not break the group up because she was getting something from it. The other girl, whose input about bringing in with a boyfriend was sort of a, just handing me the information and not willing to look at it, and not even willing to look at how she felt about it, well maybe we shouldn't meet as a group. So we left, and we need to get together next week either to com-completely disband as a group or possibly meet for one more month and see where we go, or we'll set up a new group kind of thing. So that was sort of where we left and it was sort of a just a functional kind of thing to do. Didn't help me feel much better except that it was like, I wanted to get rid of the group because it made me feel bad. [0:35:35.5]
COUNSELOR: Yeah, it really kind of sounds like it, but when you saw yourself kind of (background noise) to put those people together in a group like, what the hell is wrong with me, I mean (background noise).
CLIENT: Yeah, yeah. Like I... that's what I felt like, I'm not... I'm supposed to be able to work with groups and I haven't - thank you - field work where it's very difficult to get a group going anyway, I realize that, but I haven't been able to suc- feel successful about any group functioning (ph) there.
COUNSELOR: Yeah like wi- wi- like all you can see is kind of groups that aren't groups that you've worked with.
CLIENT: Yeah, so what hap-like I'd be in, like help, I'm not able to put anything together and I felt like one of the things that came out and I didn't express this, but I was feeling somewhere that I must be insensitive.
COUNSELOR: Yeah, I hear that like I was in-you're insensitive, you can't see kind of what's wrong and kind of rectify it, work on it. [0:36:39.5]
CLIENT: I was wondering whether I was being very effective on picking up when people are saying things that will help lead into bringing it together. I wasn't - 
COUNSELOR: You weren't (crosstalk)
CLIENT:  - it was pairing (ph) off to the - 
COUNSELOR: Yeah, it's like you were really kind of starting to doubt that you could really hear and be sensitive to - 
CLIENT: Yeah.
COUNSELOR:  - things happened to quickly kind of worked with the group thing.
CLIENT: Yeah, and it was the same day that Gary asked if I would do some training with his voluntary workers and it was a very overwhelming thing to hear because I haven't done that per se. I know something about it, but I haven't done it and so that along with what was happening with this group was too, almost too much to handle. And I went home really mad at myself and frustrated and -  [0:37:37.3]
COUNSELOR: Just kind of feeling really (inaudible) about yourself.
CLIENT: Yeah, I did. Yeah, it was a... but Gary called on Friday, because he knew that I'd had a bad day with that and asked me what had happened and I again, I kind of expressed some of the ways I felt and I wanted to cry, but I just, I felt sort of like that was a weak thing to do and I just held it back.
COUNSELOR: That's kind of how you felt about how you were doing, you felt like really crying on the inside.
CLIENT: Yeah, yeah, very much and I was, I really was, I just didn't - 
COUNSELOR: Just kind of like the just utter despair at seeing yourself not being able to do that.
CLIENT: Yeah.
COUNSELOR: It just really kind of made you ache inside, want to cry out. [0:38:25.2]
CLIENT: Yeah. Yeah, I just, I... like today I feel like I'm much more able to deal with that. I'm not sure why it hit me so hard on Thursday, except that it really did, just, I guess I... the only thing I point (ph) to is that someone else recognized it about me and I think that's, might be why I really felt extra bad about it. That up until now - 
COUNSELOR: It's kind of like it being your doubt and kind of you and (inaudible at 0:39:00.1) there was like you had confirmation.
CLIENT: Yeah.
COUNSELOR: Other people were saying that you had, you were doing a bad job.
CLIENT: Yeah. Yeah, and along that I, and I've expressed that to Gary that with this group isn't working and we've looked at different things about it, but he's very supportive and very encouraging, almost denying that it was failure, and then when one of the girls talked about it to the other worker, who talked to Gary about it was like other people are doubting me, too, and not being supportive (crosstalk) - 
COUNSELOR: It really must be true, like it kind of makes you say to yourself - 
CLIENT: Yeah. Yeah, it's like the influence of what other people are saying about me is almost stronger than what I'm feeling about it.
COUNSELOR: Yeah, and in this case it kind of confirmed what you were feeling about so it kind of had the really strong impact.
CLIENT: Yeah. Yeah, it did.
COUNSELOR: Kind of confirmed -  [0:40:00.1]
CLIENT: You know, the question that comes to me in looking at it is the, the influence that Noel's expression of the group's failure had such an influence on me and I guess the question is that I often feel the influence of other people stronger than myself.
COUNSELOR: Kind of like... is that the kind of thing where... of... what other people kind of think about you is really that important to you.
CLIENT: Mm-hmm. It is.
COUNSELOR: Kind of you need that - 
CLIENT: Yeah.
COUNSELOR:  - affirmation, confirmation.
CLIENT: Yeah, I know that's true - 
COUNSELOR: (Crosstalk)
CLIENT:  - of me, yeah, I know that's true of me, like I find that what question comes to me now in terms of depressed it made me last Thursday is that perhaps I ought to, I'm not looking at... I'm not putting people's influence on me in perspective to me. Does that make sense? [0:41:14.7]
COUNSELOR: Well, I guess in a way, it's kind of like it assumes paramount importance - 
CLIENT: Yeah.
COUNSELOR:  - and I guess it assumes, does it assume paramount importance because it's like it's hard for you to feel the competence inside of yourself.
CLIENT: Mm-hmm. Yeah, that it comes from other people, rather than it comes from me.
COUNSELOR: Right. You need the support of others, rather than being your own source of support.
CLIENT: Yeah, yeah, that's... yeah, I... that bothers me because I've seen that t-in me a lot, that I'm very dependent on other people's opinions of me. I also think of having had a good time last weekend and Don was... had a lot to do with him. [0:42:07.8]
COUNSELOR: And his responding to you.
CLIENT: Right. Because we hadn't seen each other for something like three weeks and he was really glad to see me and it made me feel good and he was... wanted to be close and it made a difference in my also feeling that way. That was very influential in how I reacted. Like Friday when I got there, he hadn't told me that he'd have a rehearsal for a play he's going to be in so he's going to be gone for three hours Friday evening and it was sort of like, it... well, the word that comes to mind is a rejection, but I didn't feel it that strongly. I was able to deal with it pretty well, but it was uncomfortable to think I didn't come first. [0:43:04.7]
COUNSELOR: Yeah, it's kind of like, you really kind of wanted and needed that knowledge that you come first.
CLIENT: Yeah, but it wasn't... I guess it wasn't so severe because I know... like I was able to put that in perspective and it wasn't terribly disruptive.
COUNSELOR: Yeah, I guess we're just saying is very often kind of like it's other people's kind of... you're wanting to feel your need, no, the fact, no... most of the time it's like you feel like what's paramount is that you do feel kind of the approval, confirmation from other peoples. It's not a perspective because you really need to know it and it's really super important for you to know it. [0:43:51.8]
CLIENT: Yeah. Yeah, when you say needing other people's approval, I think of... generally and I, I'm sure this isn't necessarily true in specifics, but that all of the things I've done and been involved in from theater to social work, my confidence comes from approval from other people. That I was a good actress because other people thought I was good. When I really looked at myself as an actress I didn't have that confidence in myself.
COUNSELOR: Kind of like you never felt worthwhile just from doing something in and of itself, but what people said about... say about what you do.
CLIENT: Yeah. I felt good about it, but I wasn't convinced I was good, like the best or (crosstalk) - 
COUNSELOR: Yeah, your sense of confidence, sense of worth that it came from other people's giving it to you, saying it to you.
CLIENT: Yeah.
COUNSELOR: Saying you've done good, you are good.
CLIENT: Yeah. And I can say to myself that, in a lot of ways, I'm okay, I'm adequate to good, but not good enough to... and I'm thinking of theater at the moment. That when I was acting, I was really good, it was a small campus and I... in my rationalization it was a small campus and the competition wasn't that great. When I considered doing it professionally, to myself I wasn't good enough to do that. Even though I knew I was getting superior approval from people at the school. Not just my peers, but older people.
COUNSELOR: Yeah. But it was kind of... it's really hard for you just to take it from yourself and see if from yourself.
CLIENT: Yeah.
COUNSELOR: And to have the kind of confidence to carry it through on yourself, you need other people to help you along and give you approval along the way.
CLIENT: Yeah. What's... yeah, saying that I guess I recognize that and what bothers me about that is, as the some of the other stuff we've talked about is that I don't think that's right and I don't... from what... the way you're interpreting it neither, it's that I ought to be able to approve of myself, myself.
COUNSELOR: Mm-hmm. Be your own source of (inaudible).
CLIENT: Yeah. And that... but it's troublesome in that that's not the case and it comes to the how do I, how do I approve of myself, myself? Without having to depend on someone else approving of me.
COUNSELOR: And how do you change.
CLIENT: Yeah, right.
COUNSELOR: And it's like you can see it well I do-another big thing I don't like about myself and I see and I recognize it makes me feel bad. What do I do with it?
CLIENT: Yeah. And... that's one of the biggest things I come here with being troubled about and wanting to change is that I can't be confident myself by myself.
COUNSELOR: How do... how do you feel about... like when you're saying about yourself, I see that I really depend on other people, how does that make you feel about yourself?
CLIENT: Inadequate, I guess. It's not always the case, but like on one hand I consider myself very independent. I guess independent maybe in terms of some kinds of living; dependent where I need that approval, a self-confident in my confidence thing. I think the f-the thing it is it's just a feeling of inadequacy about myself.
COUNSELOR: Kind of like you can't stand up on your own two feet.
CLIENT: Yeah, although I never... I've never dealt with it... like, to me that's strong and I've never... because even though that's true, I still go on. I go on living and functioning and feeling good and feeling depressed and all those kinds of things and I guess I feel when I can't stand up on my own two feet, that's stronger than I - 
COUNSELOR: That's, yeah, that's putting it too - 
CLIENT: Yeah.
COUNSELOR: Too strong. But what is the inadequate feeling kind of like just don't feel yourself kind of be as strong and kind of solid inside as you'd really like yourself to be.
CLIENT: Yeah, that and another thing that comes to me is sort of being unwhole. Like I... some things - 
COUNSELOR: Not full and kind of a whole person I guess.
CLIENT: Yeah.
COUNSELOR: Solid.
CLIENT: Yeah. Yeah, that comes through and that's - 
COUNSELOR: Like you're kind of inadequate weak or kind of unfulfilled, undeveloped.
CLIENT: Mm-hmm. Well... yeah. I... the cut (ph) the occurs to me when you say like undeveloped and unfulfilled, I guess I look at those two words as things that I grow to and I deal with the inadequacy thing, whereas the immediate... although may they're, maybe they're very similar.
COUNSELOR: I see. Unfulfilled kind of has... means fulfilled and that's something to come to but right now you just don't feel... well I guess they are to... at least I guess I was thinking of when you say (inaudible) I guess the point being is right now, is you feel the lack of aspect, rather than the what could be - 
CLIENT: Yeah, yeah.
COUNSELOR:  - aspect. Kind of like you can really sense what you're not.
CLIENT: Yeah. What I'm not right now.
COUNSELOR: You look troubled, or disturbed.
CLIENT: Well, yes and no. I... yeah, I guess I feel like in... it's a brick wall I'm running into again. The th- the inadequate feeling of not being able to be confident about myself on my own is a brick wall to me.
COUNSELOR: It's kind of like... is it you're feeling like you say it and there it is and - 
CLIENT: Yeah.
COUNSELOR:  - where the hell to go with it?
CLIENT: Yeah, exactly.
COUNSELOR: See I kind of sense as you're talking about feeling inadequate but I mean it... one... maybe one problem of getting somewhere with this because like I have trouble understanding the sense of what it feels like to you feeling yourself as inadequate. Kind of like you can... saying that I'm inadequate, but...
CLIENT: Well I guess sometimes it doesn't bother me, like well sometimes I just don't think about it.
COUNSELOR: How about now? Does it bother you?
CLIENT: Well - 
COUNSELOR: What kind of abstractly bothers you?
CLIENT:  - I'm not sure, yeah I guess it just abstractly bothers me right this minute.
COUNSELOR: Yeah, that's the sense I have. Like you can talk about it as a problem, but it's almost like an abstract problem, you don't feel it that, like it bothering you that much now.
CLIENT: Yeah. Maybe it's not bothering me now because I'm feeling fairly good.
COUNSELOR: Feel good, feeling (crosstalk) - 
CLIENT: You know what I mean? Yeah and like I hadn't thought about it bo- ... okay, it bothers me in terms of what went on last Thursday because I hadn't really recognized that Noel's expression of what went on had such a strong influence and I... and I guess I look at that as the core to where I became really depressed last Thursday and that bugs me because it just points it out again. And I hadn't... I don't think I seen that or been a consciously aware that feeling of inadequacy about the self-confidence thing for a while. And I hadn't really been focusing on it. It bothers me right now in terms of what comes the rest of the day or the rest of the week kind of thing.
COUNSELOR: It's kind of will it crop its head up again?
CLIENT: Yeah.
COUNSELOR: It's kind of a worry, but I guess you're saying is it a... and it bothered me then because I saw it like me needing or depending on the effect of what another person thought kind of... it doesn't really fully bother me now, I guess is what you're saying.
CLIENT: Right.
COUNSELOR: It's because you're - 
CLIENT: Because I'm feeling fairly good.
COUNSELOR: You're feeling pretty strong.
CLIENT: Yeah. I guess I feel right now that if someone had said to me... and I'm not sure, but if I go to fieldwork tonight, now I expect perhaps some repercussions about the fact that I wasn't around all last week and that the sort of loose group that's running a coffee house now, my field instructor's liable to question me rather severely about what's going on about that. And I have to say, well I... nothing is going on and I can give a couple reasons and right now I'm feeling that it's not going to make me feel inadequate now because I feel strong right now.
COUNSELOR: Right. It's not going to throw you.
CLIENT: Yeah, it's not going to throw me.
COUNSELOR: So you feel like you have enough inside not to be thrown.
CLIENT: Yes. Like I can deal with it today, I - 
COUNSELOR: Can take more.
CLIENT:  - and... yeah. And I can be confident about myself today and what I may say to her. I'm not going to be affronted by anything she s - 
COUNSELOR: Right. (Crosstalk) thrown.
CLIENT:  - I don't think unless she approaches me in some way I haven't heard before and then it might.
COUNSELOR: Yeah, but I guess you're saying now is I do feel good and I don't quite feel as if other people saying things about me is really going to throw me because I do kind of have a sense that I'm okay inside.
CLIENT: Yeah.
COUNSELOR: And I just... and it feels pretty there.
CLIENT: Yeah. I was just thinking about like two weeks or so ago when I was really down, just before vacation and things my roommates would say that I think mentioned it, somebody just saying one thing and it just made me depressed right away. Something about doing the dishes - 
COUNSELOR: (Crosstalk)
CLIENT:  - and I'm wondering how it was... that was somebody's feeling about... I interpreted it as somebody feeling something about me.
COUNSELOR: Right. And kind of feeling down. When you feel down, you feel so vulnerable and a little thing which might have implied someone's feelings about me really push you down further.
CLIENT: Yeah. Where I was kind of dependent on people saying good things to me.
COUNSELOR: Mm-hmm. Because you needed that.
CLIENT: Yeah. Right.
COUNSELOR: You can feel it inside for your own.
CLIENT: Yeah. I'm wondering if my lack of confidence and all is real now.
COUNSELOR: Right. It's... well it's, I think part of what you're seeing is like what I am and how I feel about myself is kind of a function of how I feel inside.
CLIENT: Say it again.
COUNSELOR: I think probably what you're seeing is kind of how I feel about myself, what I feel inside, is really a function of how I'm feeling.
CLIENT: I'm not sure I understand.
COUNSELOR: How you're feeling, like when you're feeling good - 
CLIENT: Yeah.
COUNSELOR: You don't, you don't feel so dependent or be thrown by so much by other people. You don't feel so doubtful or confused about yourself.
CLIENT: Yeah.
COUNSELOR: Kind of what you've been saying all along.
CLIENT: Yeah.
COUNSELOR: And it's kind of like, well it's not real now, but it's real at another time.
CLIENT: Yeah. And what's really (crosstalk) - 
COUNSELOR: And what's real for you now is you're feeling pretty okay about yourself.
CLIENT: Yeah. That's... it's the only really... okay I can accept that and see that, but I guess then I need to be able to deal with it when I am not feeling as good about myself. Which sounds like a circle because it's just not there when I'm feeling (crosstalk) - 
COUNSELOR: Right. Yeah. Oh, we've got to stop.
CLIENT: Okay.
END TRANSCRIPT
