TRANSCRIPT OF AUDIO FILE:
___________________________________________________________________________________
BEGIN TRANSCRIPT:
PATIENT: Again, thank you for your understanding. I was in a crunch with the last one that came here was really bad, and of course now we're in a crunch with the holidays...
COUNSELOR: Absolutely.
PATIENT: ...having started, and okay. So what do we talk about? I'm under a lot of pressure, meaning Macy's department store, yeah...the Macy's Claim Services; their insurance company has stopped payment. No more treatments, you're cured; anything else is not connected with the original accident and so forth and so on. And I still don't have a lawyer and I have really a lot of correspondence to do to the board and to whatever. It just gets so tiresome just thinking about it. My son came home; I was just kind of nervous about what sort of relationship we would have. He called me last week on Monday. I thought he was calling from his mother's place. I had figured that he would have come home Monday night. As it turned out, and he said, "Now I'll pick you up at the store dad, tomorrow or Tuesday...at work." And whatever. And I learned, I was talking to Jen and I learned that actually he wasn't home yet, he had called from Portland, and he's going to spend the first night with me, which...was a good sign. And...I've been kind of pissed at him for not hearing from him for a long time on...on the e-mail and all that stuff. And I was talking about it with Lisa and she said, "You go at like nothing's wrong and being embraized (ph) in how you do it." And so forth and so on. And so when he came to the store and gave me a big hug and gave me a kiss too. I don't care for it in public...and kidding around and so forth. So we had a nice dinner. We went back up town, we had dinner and we watched a TV show from 10:00 to 11:00, Law &amp; Order. And then right after 11:00 I got to get to sleep because I'm going, go to school in the mornings and go to work in the morning. So, that was nice, I mean, that was a good experience. Now we'd also, he had said, well from Boston...he needed a jacket...the down type jackets and so I said, "Well, we'll go, we'll try...Thursday morning but I doubt that stores will be open. If not..." It was, he nods, and he said he wants to go back to Portland Saturday morning. So I said, "Well, I tell you what, I'll pick you up early Saturday morning and I'll drive you to Ohio, where the place may be open that I know of and we'll check out them and drive you back." So it just so happened that Lisa, I was trying, I had a date to be, to stay over at Lisa's Friday and I was going not to do that because I was going to pick [inaudible at 0:03:46.6]... and she said, "Why don't you come here and we'll use my car and I'll go along with you." And well see, he and she fell (ph) off nicely and so forth.
COUNSELOR: Had they met before? [0:03:56.5]
PATIENT: Yes, they had met before and they got along pretty well. So we picked him up at 10:00 in the morning and we got in the car and we were making idle chatter, and he was back to his taciturn, uncommunicative yes and no answers, whatever, that he certainly had been at other times, and... that he certainly had been at other times with me and has been with Jen at times, too...this. And when we finally dropped him off, Lisa said, "Wow! Boy, is he something." She said, "Now I really see. Now I really understand how...upset you can be." Now, you know my brother Mark (ph), has raised three kids, the youngest of whom is 25, he said, "Hey, it's part of the thing...it's hormones, it's that age." And so forth and so on. I of course...would take it personally. And then even though I know that he probably gives Jen the same hard time and it bothers me more because I've been left out of the picture more...as I tried to explain to you once.
COUNSELOR: Right.
PATIENT: "I wasn't with you, nurturing you while you were growing up and so forth."
COUNSELOR: Right. Do you tend to take it more personally because of that?
PATIENT: Sure.
COUNSELOR: Yeah?
PATIENT: I would expect that he would extend himself somewhat. And by extend himself what, I mean in his present hormonal condition or whatever the hell makes him do that, that he would suspend that thing and give me some normal time and affection and quality time or whatever. Because, all those years, even though he may have...been in the next room, it would've been okay if I were in the kitchen and he were in the bed...but we weren't together and I missed that so much. But...he went back to (chuckling) his usual, like he does every year, he wants to halt and get a sandwich for the bus and the this and the that. And I'm, "No, no." [inaudible at 0:06:26.6]... and so forth like that. Give him some cookies and candy and so forth and so on, I could understand it, yeah. "Okay, thanks." You know some time ago he had asked me to pick up new earphones for his walkman...and I did and I happened to have bought him a CD and, "Oh, yeah. Oh, okay, thanks." And when I expect, "Ghee, thanks. Ghee, dad, thanks a lot." You know it is really...that kind of a...so there is that. And then there was also the fact that, well, like for the last three days I've been feeling terrible...like diarrhea and having to run to the bathroom, maybe every hour and a half, two hours, having to defecate, but not defecating too much. And I was really getting worried because I remember I have GI...I have a history of intestinal track disease...[inaudible at 0:07:26.6]... and so forth. So I decided today that I, I came to work today but I called the doctor and asked for an appointment and at night, and I went up to see the doctor who did a sigmoidoscopy and so forth and so on. And he said, "You know it appears to be normal, so it's really not colitis but it could be a viral with like the stomach..."
COUNSELOR: Yeah, right.
PATIENT: "...viral infection of some sort." And so forth. And he told me to get into with fiber and have the Metamucil every morning and this and that and so forth and so on. So it's not that, it's nothing dire...
COUNSELOR: Nothing major.
PATIENT: ...but nothing major but boy, I...I was just losing sleep.
COUNSELOR: Just your body is out of whack and you were probably, you were worried that it might be something serious again?
PATIENT: Yeah. And just, if I weren't so worried I would still be getting up every two hours in the night to go to the bathroom and...
COUNSELOR: It's really uncomfortable, I know.
PATIENT: That's right it's very uncomfortable. Then it comes along again and it starts to feel...
COUNSELOR: Yeah.
PATIENT: ...painful...
COUNSELOR: When did that start?
PATIENT: I think maybe Thursday but it really came, it was in full force Friday and Saturday and Sunday. And I was with Lisa, I was, we were Friday night and Saturday night, and I just made no mention of it. But I made up my mind a lot, I guess last night, that I...
COUNSELOR: How are you feeling today?
PATIENT: Actually, somewhat, somewhat better, somewhat better. It's the usual irony that you go to the doctor and at that point you're feeling somewhat better...
COUNSELOR: Right. [0:09:00.4]
PATIENT: ...but I thought I'd better get it checked out anyway, you know what I mean.
COUNSELOR: Right. It sounds a little stressful though?
PATIENT: Yes. Yes. I'm feeling a lot of...
COUNSELOR: Yeah.
PATIENT: And...and I'm going to talk to Jen about the, I mean...I'm really pissed at the, at store. And the only way I can deal with them is to, to do a lot of correspondence to the Workman's Compensation Board, filing a complaint and doing this and that, and...there are a lot of things, without having to pull them together and enumerate them, in order to combat this and to get them off base and to get in touch with that lawyer and saying...it's like shit or get off the pot? "Are you going to handle my case or not?" You know, it's three or four weeks now or whatever and I need a lawyer now...more than I ever did and all of that kind of stuff. Which I simply cannot do when I come home from work tonight...or in the morning, I can't do it. I mean I'm just beat I'm wiped out. Meanwhile, this back is getting worse and worse. Like when we went to the movie, Jerry (ph) and I went to the movie Saturday...we're in the seats and I was confined and I've got to...I've got to straighten out and I can't...
COUNSELOR: Right.
PATIENT: ...and well, let's start from the beginning. In the morning...when I wake up or in the middle of the night and so with the back is like frozen...and it's painful to me in the day, and then...I got to pull it off and get off the bed and so forth and stumble to the bathroom, then come back and go to sleep and so forth and so on. And in the morning it's hurting and sitting down it hurts and trying to get up it's even really, to put the, to bend down and put the socks and the shoe on is really kind of painful. And it's really interesting because go to work, to walk and to stand, it's not, I don't feel terribly debilitated, but to sit down and...in the morning and particularly at night the back like, like it's frozen and in the morning, and to get it really working again is, it's bothersome, it's troublesome, it's worrisome, and at night it's, it really hurts. And so, well, in the daytime it's not so bad, I'm on my feet so long. What I'm worried about is that the more I'm doing this, apparently the worse it's getting. So, and here the question is, they've said, "Well, we're not paying any more bills for therapy." And I know, (a) that I want to talk to the doctor about this and then in addition...just for openers, I mean, before...we started in therapy about how to do this and so forth, and I'm just thinking that what I'm going to do is go to him, and if the Union, if I can't get the Union to pick up the costs, which they may not because they're saying...like, they're saying, "No, no, the store should pay it." And so forth and so on. [0:12:14.9] If I can't get it from them, then I can get it paid because I can do it with Medicare and thank God I've kept, like kind of a, what do they call it, the supplemental insurance. But I think what I want to do is tell them I'm hurting again and I have to go to Dr. Philman (ph) again and tell Dr. Philman that I need a couple of weeks off again. Now it's really questionable whether I need a couple of weeks off again. I described to you how it is in the morning and how it is at night. During the day I'm not in tears, I'm not debilitated in that sense. But as I just said, I might, am I doing more long-range harm by not addressing this problem? And more so, I need the time, the only way I can help myself is to have some time off so that I can deal with things in many ways, with the Workman's Compensation Board, with Macy's and sending new (ph) things here and there to try to get things off base and moving again. And thirdly, and this is where the, possibly self-destructive angle comes in, is that...I'm so angry with them that I want to take the time off, at this particular time when they need me most, to the extent that they need anybody.
COUNSELOR: I know.
PATIENT: I'm good; I'm good at what I do.
COUNSELOR: Sure.
PATIENT: And...
COUNSELOR: So tell me about the self-destructive part [overlapping voices at 0:14:13.7]...
PATIENT: Well, the self-destructive part is, is to tell them that I'm, I can't come to work. In other words, I, no, no, here it is. I want to deprive them of me when they can use me most, during the busiest time of the year.
COUNSELOR: Right.
PATIENT: I'll fix them.
COUNSELOR: Okay.
PATIENT: They won't have my services.
COUNSELOR: Right. I, again, now I can see how there's a certain, like, yeah, in your face. But...
PATIENT: Yeah.
COUNSELOR: ...how would, how is that self-destructive?
PATIENT: Well, I won't be getting paid. I'd like to think, I mean, I haven't been getting paid. When I was doing my job, they didn't pay me for the three weeks I was off in August when I needed rehabilitation. They didn't pay me for the three weeks I was off when I fell. From my point of view, Dr. Philman's point of view, because that as an aggravated injury to the original one, which they're opposing, so they didn't pay me...
COUNSELOR: When you fell on the street?
PATIENT: That's right. That was because of the knees, that's why I fell. They're certainly not paying for the neurologist bill they bucked that. I just opened the mail and they said, "We're not paying this." So if I take three weeks off, again, they're not going to pay me, but so what's new? You know, so I don't know. Theoretically...if and when I win this case, they will have to pay me for all of those weeks that they didn't pay me. The thing with Workman's Comp. is after the first week out of work, they pay you two-thirds of your salary, that number based on the whole previous year, what you were making.
COUNSELOR: Yeah.
PATIENT: So...I'm cutting off my nose to spite my face, in the sense that I'm depriving myself of three weeks of payment of whatever it comes to. And I don't even, I mean I can't, I couldn't even tell you what it would be. Which I can withstand, otherwise...it wouldn't even be in consideration...
COUNSELOR: Consider withstand it financially?
PATIENT: Yeah.
COUNSELOR: Yeah.
PATIENT: Yeah. Well, I mean, that's how I, that's how I consider the possibility of, when it comes to that I start to [overlapping voices at 0:16:43.3]...
COUNSELOR: You're wondering if it's self-destructive? Like you saying it's, the way you said it's self-destructive is financially...you don't get paid, obviously, for those three weeks.
PATIENT: Yeah. Yeah.
COUNSELOR: Were you thinking of it as being self-destructive in other ways as well?
PATIENT: Well, in the sense that when I get to a point in a situation like this, I don't, I no longer trust my judgment.
COUNSELOR: Okay.
PATIENT: That's...
COUNSELOR: But does this situation, is it sort of reminding you of other situations in the past or that this sort of self-destructive part is that making you think of other things?
PATIENT: Yeah. Yeah. Yes. And I can't at the moment...
COUNSELOR: Okay. Yeah.
PATIENT: ...pull something out of the hat. But it's a...
COUNSELOR: Because it's, but it's sort of...
PATIENT: ...familiar...
COUNSELOR: ...a warning flag is up?
PATIENT: I'm in trouble.
COUNSELOR: You're in trouble, yeah.
PATIENT: I'm, here I'm, I'm in contention again.
COUNSELOR: Right.
PATIENT: I'm in contention.
COUNSELOR: But the lightbulb went off, the warning flag's up. You feel like, "Okay, I'm about to do something that maybe is not so good for me." What I'm wondering is how, how wouldn't it be good for you? What's the self-destructive, aside from the financial part, which is certainly self-destructive, you lose three weeks of pay...
PATIENT: Right.
COUNSELOR: ...which is a lot of what?
PATIENT: It may or may not be more, to answer your question. But I just want to; I just want to put a frame of reference in here.
COUNSELOR: Okay.
PATIENT: In the same way I was thinking in a self-destructive way by saying, "When my son comes I will be cold to him."
COUNSELOR: Right.
PATIENT: Probably knowing that, I mean, I may be getting my jollies in saying that I'm angry with you but it's, surely will be self-defeating rather than making him...
COUNSELOR: Sure.
PATIENT: So, I'm in that...
COUNSELOR: Right. And it sounds like with your son you were able to kind of get beyond that, yeah.
PATIENT: Because I had...I asked...
COUNSELOR: Yeah.
PATIENT: ...Lisa, "What do you think? You know, how do I deal with it? Like I really don't know." And she said, "You...like you act as if nothing's wrong. You greet him and you hug him and you, 'Let's go out to dinner.' and you...and then play the game."
COUNSELOR: Yeah.
PATIENT: But...
COUNSELOR: Well, let's see...
PATIENT: Okay.
COUNSELOR: Okay.
PATIENT: So now how do I be destructive?
COUNSELOR: Yeah. So let's see, let's, well, let's see if we can help you get your judgment back.
PATIENT: Yes, please.
COUNSELOR: Let's see if we can help you, I mean, if you feel like you're a little bit at sea with this...
PATIENT: Yes.
COUNSELOR: ...let's see what your...where your judgment is and what...what you think about it. How do you feel about what's going on? I mean, I suspect that there is a bunch of that this operates on different levels. It operates on a certain intellectual level and it operates on a sort of deeper, more emotional level.
PATIENT: Right.
COUNSELOR: So let's look at [overlapping voices at 0:19:35.5]...
PATIENT: They can't do this to me. This and...that, and that's an emotional reaction.
COUNSELOR: Okay. So...
PATIENT: And I won't let them do that to me.
COUNSELOR: Right. "You can't do this to me."
PATIENT: You can't do this to me and I'm going to be, I'm going to be...
COUNSELOR: Who's the 'you' in that, by the way? Who are they? "You can't do this to me." Who are the...
PATIENT: It's not so much the store as, that is Macy's, although the one up there, who's the VA (ph) is on and so forth...she plays that game. It's the conglomerate, which owns Macy's. And now at one time, as I understand it from the old timers, Macy's had...
COUNSELOR: Okay. So you're mad at this large entity?
PATIENT: Yeah, yeah.
COUNSELOR: Okay.
PATIENT: Who doesn't, who would not, here's the crazy thing.
COUNSELOR: Okay.
PATIENT: Who would not be hurt? It would be like...
COUNSELOR: Right.
PATIENT: ...like a fly on the...
COUNSELOR: So if you don't show up...
PATIENT: ... ass of an elephant.
COUNSELOR: Right.
PATIENT: They wouldn't...
COUNSELOR: So if you don't show up for three weeks, it doesn't, Macy's is not going to be going...
PATIENT: That's right.
COUNSELOR: ...reeling in their offices.
PATIENT: Exactly. My manager will go, "Oh, my God, what a time for him to get sick!" And so forth. And the division-merchandising manager will probably be pissed off at me because I got sick at this time...
COUNSELOR: Right.
PATIENT: ...of all times.
COUNSELOR: Right. And those aren't the people you're actually that mad at anyway?
PATIENT: Well, the division merchandising...
COUNSELOR: Okay, maybe you are but...
PATIENT: ...manager but she's not, it's Federated who's giving me the hard time.
COUNSELOR: I know.
PATIENT: They make you fight for every...
COUNSELOR: Yeah.
PATIENT: ...for everything that's necessary in the whole medical thing. They're bitches that way.
COUNSELOR: Yeah. So something about what's going on just seems a little...you're questioning and you feel like this, (a) the warning flag's there, this doesn't feel quite right to you, that where you're thinking or how you're feeling about all of this?
PATIENT: Yeah, I just got a flash.
COUNSELOR: Okay.
PATIENT: Am I pushing this to the point where they will fire me or try to fire me? Which, at least initially will be self-destructive, possibly continuing or possibly doing me a favor so that I have to scrounge and find something else to do, which may be even better and maybe use my talents a bit more.
COUNSELOR: Okay.
PATIENT: But that's the self-destructive thing.
COUNSELOR: Right. Well...maybe that is. Do you think that is one of your sorts of motivations, that you want them to fire you?
PATIENT: Well, I do have, I have had...a history of self-destruction in certain ways, because...
COUNSELOR: Oh, yeah?
PATIENT: Yes, I have. In the sense that I would...I don't deserve good things...and therefore, I don't deserve a raise or I don't deserve a promotion or I don't deserve to be happy, in this certain way there's a history.
COUNSELOR: So do you end up sort of pushing it to the limit and then getting fired from a job or something like that? [0:22:33.8]
PATIENT: Well, no. I, no. I mean, there are occasions I just swallowed it and...I took it and accepted it...and...
COUNSELOR: Right.
PATIENT: ...and didn't handle it in a, I was too passive of a...
COUNSELOR: Right. Right. But this sounds, I'm not sure...maybe this is part of 'I don't deserve to do well or to get' and it's self-destructive in that way. It also sounds like, but there's, this has more of the flavor of "Look, maybe I don't want to do this job, so maybe if I don't show up enough they'll fire me."
PATIENT: Well, I...I recognize it. The fact is that since it's a Workman's Comp. case they cannot fire me, unless they can really prove fraud and so forth. They can't. I'm not in danger of being fired in that sense.
COUNSELOR: No.
PATIENT: But, now let me see, there was something that you said, and, yes, for sure I hate this job...and I hate them, I really don't like the operation at all. I think they're very chintzy and they're flash and no substance and so forth and so on. But I also feel angry because I truly set certain standards that...in selling, in my dealings with customers, in this, in the last great big sale, which never occurred before, for $9,200.00...
COUNSELOR: Right. So you also get some pleasure out of this because you do a good job at it?
PATIENT: Pleasure and, "Look at me. This is the way to do it." You know, the status of...
COUNSELOR: Sure.
PATIENT: No, not status, it's ego...
COUNSELOR: Some self-esteem.
PATIENT: Self-esteem. Thank you. Thank you. Self-esteem, and I just...
COUNSELOR: Yeah.
PATIENT: ...and I just locked up one for $9,730.00 today...
COUNSELOR: Okay.
PATIENT: ...another one, which is awesome...
COUNSELOR: Yeah.
PATIENT: ...it doesn't happen.
COUNSELOR: Not, not often. So if you were...
PATIENT: No, it's never happened.
COUNSELOR: Never happened? Okay.
PATIENT: Never!
COUNSELOR: Okay, never happened. So if you were to sort of...not show up at work anymore, whatever, for three weeks or for four...however long it is, then you'd also be missing out on, you would be missing something positive. There are parts of this job you hate but there are also parts of this job that give you some real satisfaction, really give you a good boost, make you feel, make you more aware of the things that you're good at, because apparently, you are good at this...
PATIENT: Yeah. [0:25:06.8]
COUNSELOR: ...and that you do this pretty well, because you, this is not the first time you've told me you've had this...huge...
PATIENT: Yeah.
COUNSELOR: ...sort of blockbuster sale.
PATIENT: Right, yeah.
COUNSELOR: So, you'd be giving up some real positive...
PATIENT: Well, you're so right, because I'm thinking of going to the doctor and if he tells me, "I think you ought to go into the hospital, we'll do a series of...GI tests, upper and lower and so forth and so on." I was ready to tell him, "Let's hold it for one or two days because I must wrap up this sale." Well, I was waiting, I'd been waiting for an 'okay', it's okayed by the client and so forth and now let's go and then figure out how to put it all together and send it out. And I just wanted to complete it so badly that I was going to put off going to the hospital for tests, if he were to say, "I think we ought to go for some tests." Yeah, I wanted to, I wanted to make that happen. On the other hand, I mean, like, "I'll fix them." [0:26:03.4]
COUNSELOR: Right.
PATIENT: "I will get sick now and the manager will have to make everybody else pull the whole thing together and do that and ring it up under my name and I won't have to do all that work anymore, but I will get it." And it gets so stupid, it...I don't want to...
COUNSELOR: Well...I mean you can say, yeah, right, intellectually you can sort of say, "Well, it gets pretty stupid." And you know that as you said...it's not going to hurt these guys up at the, these high-ups at Macy's...
PATIENT: No, it won't.
COUNSELOR: ...if you don't show up for work for three days. I mean, obviously, it hurts the store and your work there has an impact, so it will affect the store. But, if you're looking for revenge, it's probably not the best way to get, revenge is what you're saying...it's not the most effective revenge I guess, but...
PATIENT: Yes, but okay. Yeah, the word revenge, I hadn't couched it in those terms but, yeah...
COUNSELOR: Yeah. You seem...
PATIENT: ...it's revenge or "I'm getting back at you." Which is revenge. But there is...
COUNSELOR: Yeah. You hadn't used that word.
PATIENT: No.
COUNSELOR: I used that word.
PATIENT: No, that's good, that's good. No, that's fine. That says it without pussyfooting, revenge! But, as in so much in my life, it's not simple because it's a tax, it's attached to a very real problem that I have and that is needing time with the, it will not get done. There's no way I can do what I have to do to protect my interests, unless I have time off and do the correspondence that I have to do. Which involves, in a room, when I...when I sit down and do something it's got to be...near perfect...
COUNSELOR: No, no, no, no, no.
PATIENT: ...it's got to say that, yeah we know this.
COUNSELOR: See, I know, I know. Part of me is sitting here thinking, I just want to let you in on my thoughts...
PATIENT: Yeah.
COUNSELOR: ...a little bit, because I hear what you're saying, that...I sort of follow you to a point about this sort of...it does sound sort of self-destructive to not go to work, it doesn't help them, you miss out on money. But out also miss out on the chance to sort of get the goodies that you get from your job, which you're good at. And then you say, "But...the catch is time. The catch is time because I need the time to take care of these things for myself. And I need to write all these letters, the correspondence and to get it exactly right, to get it perfect." And that's where I think I start to lose you and I think my thoughts are sort of, "Wait a minute, is this, are you getting caught up and is this taking on a life of its own again?"
PATIENT: Yeah, yes.
COUNSELOR: Do you really need that perfection in...
PATIENT: Well, you know what I mean it's not...
COUNSELOR: ...and then that's...work, that's where I'm sort of, I feel like I'm losing you here and I don't know where you're... [0:29:00.7]
PATIENT: I put that in just to say, look, we can talk in shorthand, we know that if I'm going to sit down it's, I, somebody, a wig (ph) once said, "I don't have the time to write a short note."
COUNSELOR: Okay. I understand, I understand.
PATIENT: Okay. I left out something, which is very, very important. One of the, maybe the most important thing I want to do. Let me tell you what happened last week. I guess the beginning of last week. All right. For the first sale, I wanted to, this correspondence to be so perfect to the design firm, because I knew it was not only for them but they were going to, in turn, show this to their client and they want to look good. So it's got to be a win/win situation all around, that's what made it very important. And I put in, in the aggregate I put in about four days of computer time on all the different correspondence and the follow-through, which was absolutely the most professional thing, I guarantee you that the store had ever seen.
COUNSELOR: I'm sure.
PATIENT: So much so that I told you that the client wants to send me to...a fine restaurant for dinner and so forth and so on. Dissolved, next scene. When I wrote up a whole report on the genesis of this whole thing, and how it happened and how we put it together and so forth, for the manager and I was, I knew that if she had a brain in her head she would send it up to the division, who would send it up to the president, which incidentally, never happened, very stupid. But, at least I knew now that I had the basics on disc. When the second time, when this new person came around and said, "You did this for that and so for Kent and we have this. We're doing a house in Toronto, duplicate this to the extent warranted and make whatever changes you feel are necessary." This is fantastic because all the work is done now and I have it on disc. I said, "Lisa, next year, should I ever get another...order like this, I want to get some computer time. I'm not going to do homework anymore for nothing...I'm not going to work for nothing. I don't want to." She, "Oh, well, we'll get you a computer." So I bring in the thing. I got this thing and I say, "Are we going to get me the computer?" "Oh, well, Evan's (ph) got a computer." That's her boss. I said, "No. I'm not going to ask. You ask him...it's not up to me, you Evan." And she tells me that, at the time her, it's not working or something. I said, "Well, Lisa, I need a computer. I'm all..." And she's evading me, she was [audio blip at 0:31:37.6]... sale and so forth and so on, and I see I'm not getting any help from her. So I pick up the phone and, I mean, I'll call anybody, I'll call, I said I can call the division merchandising manager and say, "Kate, this situation, remember that order? I have one that's even bigger and I need a computer..." And so forth and so on, "...now get me a computer so I can do the work." All I get is voice mail and nobody is picking up and so forth. Again, I don't care who, so...I call the store manager. [0:32:07.6]
COUNSELOR: Okay. I want to stop this...
PATIENT: Okay.
COUNSELOR: ...here a little bit, because I want to check in with you right now about how you're feeling...like, as you're talking about this, what...?
PATIENT: I'm building up. I'm building up... [audio blip at 0:32:19.3]...
COUNSELOR: Yeah, but how are you feeling right now?
PATIENT: How am I feeling?
COUNSELOR: Yeah.
PATIENT: Bloodthirsty. And I want you to know how bloodthirsty...
COUNSELOR: Right. Okay.
PATIENT: ...and that's what's so important for me to sit down and write this whole, the story of this whole thing up and send it to the store manager, because I was told not to, don't bother the store manager on eight. And I want to send up the whole thing. I say, "This is the first one, and this is what made us all heroes and so forth, and this is with the second one, and this is the kind of management that you've got here."
COUNSELOR: Yeah. Right.
PATIENT: It's very important that I do that. Now that will make the group manager and the division-merchandising manager dislike me.
COUNSELOR: Okay. I'm, right now...
PATIENT: Okay.
COUNSELOR: Right now, I just want to check in and see where we are.
PATIENT: Okay.
COUNSELOR: Because I know you're feeling bloodthirsty and it also feels like you...you want to get this story across...and I could kind of hear that. I'm trying to figure out what happened, because I think I asked you, trying to sort of figure out what just happened and where I lost, where I sort of...
PATIENT: Okay.
COUNSELOR: ...lost the train. Because...
PATIENT: I think I wanted to tell you that it's not only, perfection is not the...
COUNSELOR: Okay.
PATIENT: ...only thing. There's a very real, bloodthirsty reason...
COUNSELOR: Right.
PATIENT: ...for me to want the time off. I think that's what was important to me.
COUNSELOR: Okay. Okay. Yeah, I know, I hear that, and it sounds, and that was my impression that, when I used that word 'perfection' about your, the pattern is going on that you wanted to explain to me that there was a real aspect to it, as well...that it's not some... What do you mean by 'real aspect'?
PATIENT: I mean other, I mean more pointedly addressed, very specifically addressed to this particular subject, to this particular person. Or we talk about I have to do things for perfection, that would mean, anything. I sit down at the computer, I'm going to be writing a letter 'a' or to 'z', I want the letter to be fine, that's the way we use the word at section as shorthand. When I say 'real', I'm talking about; I have an issue, a very sharply defined issue that I have to set to paper. That's what I mean by 'real', as opposed to the general, theoretical perfection of anything. [0:35:21.0]
COUNSELOR: But, you're also saying, and you're also saying, I mean, just to play devil's advocate here. You're also saying, you could take three weeks off because you might need that time to actually do this. So you're talking about three weeks that you might need to do some kind of correspondence?
PATIENT: I used the term 'three weeks' because...
COUNSELOR: Two weeks or whatever?
PATIENT: No, no, no. No, no, the three weeks is used because that's, it seems that for the last two or three times that was the unit that the doctor had given me off. And probably I want to keep to those three weeks to maintain the credibility of the past three-week episodes, probably.
COUNSELOR: And you're saying you would use that time to work on this stuff?
PATIENT: Well, it may be only; it may take me only a week or ten days or something, but...
COUNSELOR: To write some letters?
PATIENT: To write those things that I want to write. But the other half then is, "I'll fix them. I will deprive them of me."
COUNSELOR: I understand that.
PATIENT: So...
COUNSELOR: I understand that. I understand that it's...
PATIENT: Yeah, I know you do. (chuckling)
COUNSELOR: That part I'm in touch with. The part that I think where, I noticed when, it felt like your voice got faster when you started explaining things to me. After I said that thing about perfectionism...
PATIENT: Okay.
COUNSELOR: ...that it felt to me like the pressure built up, that you needed to explain to me what was real...
PATIENT: Yeah.
COUNSELOR: ...and what was not.
PATIENT: It's more than that though.
COUNSELOR: And you start, right...
PATIENT: Right.
COUNSELOR: ...that it started building up. And that's where I felt like I was losing you.
PATIENT: Losing you?
COUNSELOR: And, I wondered if you began to, I wonder if you began to feel more anxious when I said that about perfectionism?
PATIENT: Well, partly, yeah, probably, because that would be, no, no, no. I want you to understand me more clearly.
COUNSELOR: Right.
PATIENT: Sure. Sure.
COUNSELOR: Yeah.
PATIENT: Sure.
COUNSELOR: Yeah.
PATIENT: I mean I want, that's my way of saying, "Look, I willingly tell you that I have a fault here, a very big fault, perfection." So...
COUNSELOR: Yeah.
PATIENT: ...I tell you that so let's put it on the side.
COUNSELOR: But it feels like what you're saying is you're going, how I experience, you say, "Look, I have this fault, perfectionism, but that's not it. It's this, it's something else, and it's not perfectionism." And then on the other hand I'm hearing, you could spend ten days trying to perfect some letters. And then you're saying, "But it's not perfectionism!" So I'm trying to understand...
PATIENT: You don't know...
COUNSELOR: If it's not perfectionism...
PATIENT: It may be spending...
COUNSELOR: ...what is it?
PATIENT: Oh! Oh! Oh, okay. All right, if theoretically you're saying, "Greg, would everything you have to write really, really take ten days? That's the question, I mean, ask that of yourself Greg." I don't think so. I don't think so, unless of course, I fall into the usual pattern of, now I've got, now I have the time. [0:38:36.7]
COUNSELOR: I think you're doing it already. I think you're already on that path. You're already thinking, "How am I going to create that time for myself?" And then once you have that time, you'll use it, you'll work things [overlapping voices at 0:38:54.7]...
PATIENT: No, but I'll also waste it, is what I'm saying.
COUNSELOR: Yeah, right.
PATIENT: I won't, I won't do a nine to five, sitting down in front of the computer.
COUNSELOR: Well, probably not, because if you did that you'd be done in an hour. I think there would be a lot more agonizing, a lot more torturing yourself. Your question is, there's part of you that's still thinking about doing something like that. That you're still thinking of taking time off to engage in what you know will be a sort of torturous process on yourself. You know that if you have time to work on something like this that you will beat it to death. You will agonize over it and try to get it one way and not work on it and put it off and then come back to it and agonize over it some more, that it will become a very unpleasant process for you. And you're already thinking, "Maybe I'll do that." My, then I think the important question for us to look at is, what's making you think that you might want to, might want to make yourself suffer that way? Why would you be willing to suffer that way?
PATIENT: To make somebody else suffer. To make Evan Chapman suffer. To cause...
COUNSELOR: So you're willing, you're willing to really create for yourself three weeks of what could be very unpleasant time for you, maybe, maybe not, but really willing to commit yourself to that? I think though there's another part of it. You want revenge maybe. But I also wonder if...when I, when I'm with you I sometimes feel like you don't like that perfectionistic part...you recognize it as being perfectionistic, but there's part of you that's not ready to let go of that. You really, there is part of it that gives you certain comfort in doing that. It's what you're used to, it's a habit you've had for a long, long time, and maybe it's something that you're not ready to give up yet.
PATIENT: No, I don't think so, because I think part of it has to do with ego and having to read over something...
COUNSELOR: But I think, but then the real question is, if you're not ready to get that up...
PATIENT: Not ready to...
COUNSELOR: ...not ready to give that up...
PATIENT: Give it up.
COUNSELOR: Are you ready, how can you change? How can you change the way you are? [0:41:31.5]
PATIENT: Well, number one, I'm just starting from this point, I mean, I have to say I don't know how to give it up. I wouldn't know how to give it up, you know, okay?
COUNSELOR: Well, I'm not suggesting that you do though.
PATIENT: Yeah, okay.
COUNSELOR: I'm suggesting that maybe you're not ready to maybe you don't want to.
PATIENT: Yeah. And then the question is, again, do I want to give it up or why do I want to give it up? Why would I want to give it up?
COUNSELOR: I think maybe the thing is, there's part of you that wants to change, because right now your life involves a fair amount of suffering. I mean, there's the physical suffering, the pain that you experience, there's that suffering. But I think there's also a lot of suffering that goes on emotionally, inside your head, that is sort of worrying about things, agonizing about things, turning things over and over in your head, which really ties you up. It keeps you tied up in a certain way and it limits your life. And, but, and in addition to that, I also think it's something that you're very used to and something that, in some ways, you're very attached to and identified with. And it may be that you're not ready or that you really don't want to give that up. That you'd rather experience the sort of pain and the suffering that you're experiencing now, however bad it is, than to risk giving that up and to experience something different, because it might be better but it might not be better.
PATIENT: Oh!
COUNSELOR: I'm really questioning at a very basic level, how much you want to change?
PATIENT: I have no quarrel. Oh, yeah, you're wondering how much I want to change or if, in fact, I want to change?
COUNSELOR: Yeah.
PATIENT: Theoretically, theoretically I want to change.
COUNSELOR: I'm not sure.
PATIENT: The question is, what do I want to change? I don't, I think the reason I brought up the self-destructive aspect was, the self-destructive thing was absent and I, it didn't, don't, didn't consider that...
COUNSELOR: [inaudible at 0:44:27.5]...
PATIENT: ...the perfection, the perfectionist...
COUNSELOR: Yeah, I know.
PATIENT: ...and it's only at the, in writing, by the way, at the, not only, but okay. I was just thinking of the other things and the poor judgment that I, that's the stuff that I want to change. I didn't think of the writing, the perfectionist aspect of writing that would, that would needed, need changing. So I really have to examine that. I was really trying to say, "Here's where I think my trouble is...I'm doing something, I'm cutting off my nose to spite my, and this and that, and I want to get evy, even and revenge and so forth." All of which are different than perfectionism, that's a different arena. It's like an area, as I see it.
COUNSELOR: Yeah, I know.
PATIENT: And, and I mean, I was trying to say, I understand that I'm vulnerable here and that's, in fact, why I'm here, and that's why I'm telling you this and saying that I'm self-destructive.
COUNSELOR: Yeah.
PATIENT: But I didn't quite see it in the way, I didn't attach the perfectionism symptom as part of that. Or put another way, if I were able to do everything in a week, would that be self-destructive? So is, or put another way, is it the perfectionism of the writing or the need to, the need for perfectionism in writing or is it the time that it takes for the perfectionism in writing that you find more troublesome?
COUNSELOR: I'm not sure. And I realize that we're sort of, I feel like I'm getting in, in a role here of, of sort of pushing at you or challenging you or maybe even I'm sort of...saying, "Oh, you know..."
PATIENT: That's okay; I want you to push me...
COUNSELOR: Maybe I do.
PATIENT: ...and challenge me.
COUNSELOR: Yeah, I know, but I wonder, well, it's something to note for now. But I think you're as, oh, well, maybe, I realize we, we're out of time for today...
PATIENT: Oh.
COUNSELOR: ...so we're going to have to put some of this on hold. But I think maybe the thing for us to sort of stay open to here and to get back to in some way is, not so much...in maybe trying to sort out a little bit or figure out more of what it is that you do want to change and what you don't want to change? [0:47:38.5]
PATIENT: All right, yeah, maybe.
COUNSELOR: I mean, I don't know where, I feel like we're in some murky areas here but it's...
PATIENT: Yeah, well, I just got I got a flash. And the flash is that I don't have a clue as to what other options are available. Until...until you bringing this up and, I mean, I'm saying...it's either 'a' or 'b', that's all there is in this life here, to do this or to not do this.
COUNSELOR: I think that's very important.
PATIENT: Yeah!
COUNSELOR: I think your prior, and I think you may have not had a lot of experiences with other options. And I think there's a whole world of other options out there.
PATIENT: That's what I'd love to see if I couldn't know.
COUNSELOR: [inaudible at 0:48:19.0]...
PATIENT: Yeah. Okay.
COUNSELOR: Well, on that note, and you can take those.
PATIENT: Thank you. Yeah, but I think that's very important. All right, bundle up. It's getting cold.
COUNSELOR: Yep. It's getting very cold. I'll help you out.
PATIENT: Okay.
COUNSELOR: All right. Take care.
PATIENT: Bye-bye.
COUNSELOR: I'll see you next week.
PATIENT: Right. [0:48:55.6]
END TRANSCRIPT
