TRANSCRIPT OF AUDIO FILE:
______________________________________________________________________________
BEGIN TRANSCRIPT:
CLIENT: Hi. It's been a while. Actually it's just been a week and a half, or two weeks. (laughs) Yeah. It sure seems like a while. Um, yeah I went to Florida and it was, you know, it was actually really fun. My dad was the pilot of my plane so he got to put me up in the cockpit before the flight, and got to show me lots of buttons. It was really nice. It was really fun.
Seeing my mom was also nice, but it was actually—it was nice, but it was also kind of stressful in a sense. She would make off-handed remarks, like, "Oh, ever since I heard about you and Jeremy I've been so depressed. I couldn't move off the couch." And it's like -
THERAPIST: Wow. That's a pretty strong comment.
CLIENT: Yeah. (sighs) It is a—it was like, naturally I'm empathetic so I feel bad —
THERAPIST: Umm. [00:01:01]
CLIENT: cause I caused this depression. Um, but in the same sense I just said, "Oh, that's too bad," and I realized that (pause for .03 seconds) you know, it's sad that it depresses her but in a sense it's positive. I can understand just how, you know, public restrooms still kind of—but I've gotten better—freak me out, it's logical within my own sort of narrowed vision, or within my own fears, you know. 
And it's logical within her experience and her associations to sort of see this as the death sentence of -
THERAPIST: So you can see even though it really doesn't make sense in your world for you regarding your relationship -
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: you can understand why it does in her world for you. It's not really about you.
CLIENT: Yeah. And that's sort of why—in a sense that's sort of like what I told myself to make it better. [00:02:03]
And it was like kind of weird cause there's some things that I think—you know, that Jeremy does that are really sweet: he takes care of the finances; he's putting aside lots of money for decorating the apartment. That's actually really sweet because I mean, I wouldn't have that money to decorate. But he's given me full reign and you know, the fact that he wakes me up—it's crazy—he's just been gone to Santa Fe since Thursday morning, and I didn't really do anything on Thursday.
I didn't do much work. I didn't do—I just sort of obsessed about decorating, or obsessed—I mean, I'm taking a class this semester and it's definitely very challenging for me. It's a field or a sub-field of physics that I wasn't so aware of going into it. [00:02:59]
Um, you know, it's actually—I've spent so much time and it's actually been kind of a stress because I want to do my research but I have to do this class; I have to do presentations; I have to do homework; I'm staying up until like, you know, like the week that the homework was due, I stayed up—or the night before homework was due—I stayed up until 2:00 doing it and I didn't get home until 11:30, cause I was working here with my colleagues, or whatever, classmates. [00:03:35]
And so, you know, and so it puts some strain on like—okay I have to finish my PhD in a year. Everyone's knowing that I'm going to finish—I've been telling everyone that, Jeremy's been telling everyone that, and there's conditions: my mom's going to come to town with a shotgun. And maybe this was just my initial reaction. 
But anyway, in my head there were all these sort of consequences, like if I don't finish in a year. It's tough because I really want to understand what's going on in this class, you know, and I feel stupid cause like everyone seems to get it so much quicker. [00:04:14]
You know, I'm—maybe they get it on the surface—but I've never been okay with getting it on the surface.
THERAPIST: Umm.
CLIENT: It just seems all too hocus-pocus magic and so I have to understand and do every sort of calculation. Or maybe it's just that they had prior experience with quantum information, which I probably think is the case. Um, which is why they would be taking the class. 
THERAPIST: Why are you taking the class?
CLIENT: Oh, cause I thought it was going to be easy. (laughs) Cause there is like—I thought it was just going to be class presentations, and I thought I knew something about quantum mechanics. I mean, it's—and I thought, "Oh, there's no final so I can be in the Nutcracker (pause for .02 seconds) for my mom." [00:04:59]
Which is another thing that kind of stresses me out—I know my mom relies on me to be in the Nutcracker. It's just like, I guess what I'm trying to say, I'm really under stress of trying to be the perfect girlfriend; the perfect student; the perfect ballerina, which I'm too tired too often just go to dance so I just stay home; the perfect daughter.
And it's like, it's challenging to be all of these things, and like -
THERAPIST: What do you really want to do? And what do you really want to be?
CLIENT: Well, (pause for .02 seconds) I sort of just want to like (pause for .03 seconds), I do enjoy being a—not the perfect girlfriend—but I do enjoy making my boyfriend happy. It makes me happy, like cooking for him, and decorating, and spending time with him. And I do want to finish my PhD. Um, you know, and there's some times when I'd like to work on the weekends. [00:06:10]
But I don't really—it's never a direct—it's kind of like when you work 9 to 5, you work from 9 to 5, and you're welcome to think after 9 to 5. But after that, you know, it's more—if you do have to work later than 9 to 5, then you know what to work on even harder or the next night know what to finish.
But with my research, it's never been really focused like: today—well I guess maybe I gave up trying to be focused on specific tasks in my research, cause sometimes things take longer and sometimes your computer breaks down and loses your results for that day.
Um, you know, it doesn't mean that I don't try, but it's like, you know, I guess I'm starting to see like on weekends, there's definitely—it wouldn't—I don't think Jeremy would mind if I did reading on the weekends. Sometimes he wants to do stuff. He wants to go out on the weekends, and I even have a dance class I could go to on Sunday, cause I do want to get better in dance. [00:07:16]
Um, that's something that I do want to work on. And I guess I got frustrated cause my trip to Florida—my mom eventually reimbursed me cause I just went down there for the Nutcracker auditions and it kind of pissed me off that no one wanted to take me to the airport. Um, because my sister wanted to go to—she was down in Lodi—which is like 40 minutes from the airport and she lives about 10 minutes from the airport.
She was down teaching dance with my mom but she wanted to go to this lady's party, which was at 4:00 and my flight took off at 6:00, which she wouldn't be able to take me. [00:08:04]
THERAPIST: Right.
CLIENT: And sort of like, I had to take a train, I had to take—and then she offered to have her husband pick me up at Amtrak but I think that was sort of like, you know, already at that point it's going to take more time and money for him to go 10 minutes to Amtrak. I could just walk to the bus stop and um, hang out with ghetto people, and then get on the bus.
I think the real thing was like if I'm already slugging my feet in the dirt, why? I mean, I'd rather just do it all myself cause then I don't have to feel grateful for some sort of small contribution, or feel like, you know, like I've made someone's day bad.
So, yeah, and then I just, I guess it was really just long and I guess I've been burning out, cause all—like on the plane rides for five hours: I would study; I would read; like the whole day that I was traveling—once I got to the airport I had to wait for my first flight for four hours, doing reading. [00:09:15]
Then during the flight doing reading, then doing the whole red-eye I was doing reading, and I was just—I find myself exhausted.
THERAPIST: Of course. You haven't had a rest.
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: And it sounds like—when you really think about the trip, it sounds like you feel a little resentful rather than it being fine.
CLIENT: Yeah. (laughs) I mean I had fun spending time with my family, but I just think like -
THERAPIST: What were the fun parts?
CLIENT: Well, making pasta with my dad and, you know, just sort of sitting while the TV was on with my mom. Maybe painting my nails, and seeing the girls at the Nutcracker, and just talking about general things—except that, you know, it was kind of like felt nervous talking to my mom quite a bit. Every now and then she'd drop a comment here and there, and like, you know, it's like why do I have to—(sighs) I don't know, I just, um—[00:10:17]
I did feel resentful cause it's like I really could have used that time to either like rest or get into a routine, but instead, you know, this whole trip was just to like—well, it did make my mom feel better, so I do feel better. But it's just like (pause for .03 seconds) does anyone go out to make me feel better? You know?
Or like, well, you know (pause for .03 seconds) I just, you know, but does anyone go out to help me move? Or help me do anything? And it's like: why am I coming to the family? Why am I having to pick a class according to whether it has a final or not? It's like, I feel like there's so many like -
THERAPIST: You're taking all of their needs into consideration and their wishes -
CLIENT: Yeah. [00:11:07]
THERAPIST: but you don't feel like it's necessarily coming back to you.
CLIENT: Yeah, I mean, you know, it's just—but then again, what are my needs? Well I guess support and talking, but I can't have support because I'm doing something that depresses people. I haven't even told—I'd like to share that I'm proud of my apartment and I think it's coming together nicely or talk about designing or designer themes, but I mean, I haven't even told my sister.
I don't know—she probably does know by association from my mom—that I'm living with Jeremy. I just don't want to talk about it because then it would be like: shame, shame. Like, (pause for .03 seconds) and it's just frustrating because it's like I do love them and they have done things for me, um, (pause for .03 seconds) And it's just—I mean, and I think my mom sort of understood that it was kind of a hassle for me to get out there, and it was just for Nutcracker—it wasn't for fun. [00:12:20]
Um, (pause for .03 seconds) and basically slept the whole time. I didn't really do chores. It's not like I'm, "Ooh, money, money, money." And but this time I was just so exhausted and found it hard to like -
THERAPIST: It's hard to go for a weekend. It's a long way to go for a weekend.
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: And plus you're using the plane—it sounds like you're using the plane ride to catch up on the work that you weren't doing.
CLIENT: Yeah, and I mean, (pause for .03 seconds) yeah, and it's just one of those, sort of like—I mean, I guess that's what it's sort of like: I'm there for people. I talk to my sister and like, as I (pause for .02 seconds) yeah, I was talking to my sister last night. [00:13:04]
I was trying to explain that I am just sort of like in a stressful situation, like you know, and she was like, "Oh -" and I was like, "You know, the travel. It really set my mind," and she was like, "Well, I know one thing you can do: you just can't really travel this semester." And I was like, "Well -" it's just this last week that I was traveling. It's not like I'm traveling to Paris one weekend and the next -
(chime sounds from cell phone)
THERAPIST: That's a lot of texts.
CLIENT: (laughs) Oh, I know. (laughs) It's about, probably about when I tried to return the dress that my boyfriend bought me. I needed his credit card but he's in Santa Fe, so, but um, yeah, I mean it's just like—she had this sort of thing like she always talks about -
(chime sound from cell phone) [00:14:00]
CLIENT: Let me turn that—just a second. Where are you? 
(chime sounds from cell phone)
CLIENT: Oh my goodness. (laughs) Well I guess we weren't wrong when we talked about returning this and getting his money (laughs) um, but, um cause I made the joke that they said if I didn't have the credit card I could get an in-store credit. And I said, "That would be a bad idea—or would it?" (laughs) [00:14:31]
But of course, I would rather spend that—I probably already spent that money that I returned already on decorating, so—I mean I'm trying to be responsible with money. It's kind of hard when you're decorating and I told Jeremy that, and he said he understands, you know. But, um, yeah—it's just that she has all these sort of pains associated with her labral tear in her hip, and it's made her very handicapped. [00:15:00]
So she's undergoing lots of pain, and you know, I'm often there reassuring her that she's going to be alright. And I can talk to my sister about, "Oh my acne's bad," and "Why don't you switch your birth control?" So I eventually did that. So she's good for advice like that but in terms of like—you know, I can't (pause for .03 seconds) it's just sort of like there's no way of (pause for .02 seconds) I guess I did—I mean I guess some things she's very understanding of.
But I guess other things she's like, um,(pause for .02 seconds) stress she's just not the best. Like if I was sad about—when I was sad about ballet auditions, she's like, "Oh, you know. Don't feel bad." You know, but I mean -
THERAPIST: Pretty dismissive about what you're feeling.
CLIENT: Yeah, I mean, yeah. Not everything but in terms of like—she takes health sort of—as long as it's not associated with pain—she takes every little tummy ache very seriously. But you know, in terms of like generally the stress and the frustrations I'm dealing with, yeah they're different. [00:16:14]
And they're probably would be trivia in terms of what her life is and her perspective.
THERAPIST: But they're not trivial to you.
CLIENT: Yeah. I mean, I guess it's just (sighs) (pause for .03 seconds) you know, I mean, I just sort of feel like I'm having—it's just the feeling I've had with my last boyfriend. Only at least my family talks to me and we can be in the same room and smile and laugh.
But it's like there's so much of my life that is being missed or like, I mean (pause for .02 seconds) —
THERAPIST: You can't be real with them.
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: So much of the story you keep hidden away. [00:16:58]
CLIENT: Yeah. (pause for .02 seconds) It was funny cause when I told Jeremy a little bit about my mom of course he got very defensive, and he said that, "You know, I felt like telling your mom I could take Janet, and we could go to the court right now and get a certificate," but he's like, "I just don't have money for the ring or the whole wedding thing, you know."
And I understand, I mean, I take his word for it. I feel that we discussed it and we're both looking forward to that time when we are financially and sort of situationally ready. Um, which doesn't have to be like five years, but yeah, but um, (pause for .02 seconds) he's like, "Well did you tell your mom how much I do for you?" and I was like, "Yeah, I did." 
But in the same sense, like if I tell her too much, it would be like oh—cause, you know, Jeremy was saying, "Like this apartment is big enough even for, you know, if we expand -"
THERAPIST: Yeah.
CLIENT: like if I have a baby or a child," and he even told that to his grandmother, and his grandmother sort of laughed. You know, and my mom's like, "Oh!" and I'm like, "Well, of course that would be after we got married," and my mom's like, "Yeah, yeah. You know I did talk to him and he's like—I was afraid that he was just going to be for having babies out of wedlock -" or whatever than means, "but he said he wasn't for it," you know or, "He'd say he'd get married definitely before that."
THERAPIST: Umm.
CLIENT: And I was just like, "Shouldn't this be exciting? Here's a guy that's really in love with me, really takes care of me, such to the point that I feel actually kind of lost and disoriented without him,"—I mean I really do. I don't feel like: oh, who am I? what am I? I just feel like, oh I don't want to make breakfast. (laughs) 
You know, just all these little things that just make my life better. [00:18:58]
THERAPIST: You want her to be happy for you -
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: because you're happy.
CLIENT: Yeah. (pause for .02 seconds) and I guess maybe that's why she started. She said she'd feel better when she saw me. I guess cause she saw that I was happy. She saw that —
THERAPIST: This is not ruining your life, even though it's not the rule book that she has in her head for what makes somebody really happy. Maybe she did get to see that you are happy; that this is not a bad thing for you. (pause for .03 seconds) It's nice to feel her be excited for you.
CLIENT: Yeah (pause for .02 seconds) yeah, I mean that's the same thing. It's like there's (pause for .04 seconds) yeah, I mean, that's exactly it. There's this—it's supposed to be a good time in my life and instead I'm having to come make up grievances (ph) and take time out of my lifetime—time and energy and emotion—to make up grievances, or whatever that word is, (laughs) for something that should be very happy and celebrated. [00:19:57]
And instead it's shamed upon. I'm tired—I think this is one thing I've been realizing and I know we've talked about it before—but I'm tired of putting so much shame on myself. Like, "Oh, I'm stupid." You know, I don't want to—I feel stupid in classes. I feel ashamed that I don't have any papers published. I feel sad—like I have to hide my life from my family. I'm just tired—I'm not a reject. I'm actually doing really well in life.
THERAPIST: Uh huh.
CLIENT: You know, in terms of what I do know versus—I mean school is—there's a lot of smart kids there.
THERAPIST: Um hmm. You're one of them.
CLIENT: (laughs) Yeah, and just to be mediocre in a Harvard class really says a lot against the, you know, general population. And it's just—I'm just tired of like, (pause for .02 seconds) it's like when it's just me and Jeremy—he really has helped me. And same with you have really appreciating (sic) what I've done and sort of decisions I've made. [00:21:07]
And I just don't feel that—I mean, my dad actually—he was really happy for me. I think maybe why that's why I had a lot of fun with him cause I just sort of felt like -
THERAPIST: He was very accepting of you.
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: You want your mom and your sister to be proud of you for what you do.
CLIENT: Yeah, (whispering) and um, (pause for .06 seconds) you know, and it's really interesting, as I sort of see—like, I flip through pictures, um, mind you my dad didn't take many pictures of my mom and us girls, but like there's so many more pictures of me and my sister together, or me and dad, or me, dad and Tammy together. [00:21:58}
I don't know why there's not so many—maybe I just didn't take pictures, or maybe I just didn't take home—I've been sorting through old pictures and I'd taken some from my mom's, extras from my mom's photo book. I don't know why I didn't grab so many of me and my mom, or like, I don't know if it's because my mom's very self-conscious, or (pause for .02 seconds), you know -
THERAPIST: What are you reading into it?
CLIENT: (pause for .02 seconds) Well, part of me is just like, "Oh, well, maybe I just took home some certain pictures that looked cute," or you know, "Maybe I'm just using this to support my underlining thing of my mom just being very critical of her appearances." Just so, very sort of like (pause for .03 seconds) um, I mean she really did love us. She loved us as children, and—[00:23:03]
THERAPIST: Are you questioning whether she does?
CLIENT: (pause for .02 seconds) (sighs) No, I'm just sort of—I'm seeing—I'm questioning whether she wants to see me as an adult. And, you know, it's just frustrating because like, this whole sort of like ex-communication. 
Things are so strong. Just maybe like, I don't know how to deal with strong personalities. I've never been like—I've always just gone along under the radar. But it gets to a certain point where I'm tired of going underneath the radar.
THERAPIST: Umm. Well it sounds like recently going under the radar would have meant really being dishonest to yourself about what you really want. And to fly under the radar about the relationship would've been that you either lied about living together, or didn't live together.
CLIENT: Right.
THERAPIST: That's a pretty big thing to give up.
CLIENT: Yeah. 
THERAPIST: And it sounds like—I mean, with regard to coming home to help with dance, flying under the radar means making lots of trips.
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: You'll go for auditions; you'll go for the show. What else are you being asked to do? Or what's expected?
CLIENT: (sighs) Nothing else yet, but I mean (laughs) -
THERAPIST: Yet.
CLIENT: Yeah. (pause for .02 seconds) I mean, finish my PhD in a year.
THERAPIST: That's a big expectation.
CLIENT: Yeah, and it's not looking so—I mean, it was looking good before the workload of this class. It's sort of, like no work for three weeks then an infinite amount of work in three weeks, so it kind of it's very oscillatory. You know, it has sort of opened my eyes up to how hard I will work on something when there's a direct task—[00:25:01]
THERAPIST: Umm.
CLIENT: and I know that there's a solution, as opposed to my research, where it's just sort of -
THERAPIST: Which is open-ended.
CLIENT: It's very open-ended. So I was like, "Oh, you know, it's okay if I just go home and think about it."
THERAPIST: Umm.
CLIENT: And I really don't, um. So in one sense I appreciate—I'm glad I'm taking this class cause it was sort of like getting me into the routine of reading on the bus, and doing calculations just anywhere. It was kind of cool because I see how I got to this place. I was starting to forget.
THERAPIST: Umm.
CLIENT: Um, but you know, it's (sighs) it's just I (pause for .04 seconds) yeah, I think just this past week having to go to Florida and fit that in, it was just sort of like frustrating, but, um. (pause for .03 seconds) And you know, it's also kind of hard cause I do understand—like I don't want to hurt people. [00:26:09]
THERAPIST: Umm.
CLIENT: And sometimes like you do have to realize that, you know, it's not your fault that they're hurt, but they're still hurt —
THERAPIST: Umm.
CLIENT: because of the way they see things. And I guess in one way I felt—well it did feel nice to visit my family and have a family dinner, cause we made pasta from scratch. It was me and my mom and my dad, but, um, like (pause for .03 seconds) I guess that's just sort of where I am, but (pause for .02 seconds) —
THERAPIST: How was your anxiety?
CLIENT: Well in terms of like, for what I had to do—just thinking of all my—like I was essentially alone; like taking Amtrak; making many different connections; and um, (pause for .02 seconds) I was actually pretty good. 
I, you know, there's times I—my hands actually—going out, I don't know why my hands got really dry. I guess I was using the bathroom a lot cause sometimes my tummy just hurts—maybe cause it is the stress. But my hands got really dry, um, so I sort of just saw myself like—and I get a little bit like, still a little bit grossed out in airplane bathrooms.
THERAPIST: Umm.
CLIENT: But it's interesting cause when I was coming back, I guess the person sitting next to me had tracked a paper towel from the bathroom that looked kind of stained yellow and I was just, "Eww," cause it was right next to me. And like no one else seemed to care. The flight attendant at the end of the flight just picked it up. I was just like, "Oh, well, okay." {00:28:13]
THERAPIST: Umm.
CLIENT: You know, it was just sort of like well okay, maybe I just sort of do have to relax a little bit more cause she picked it up with her bare hands and probably just won't wash her hands for a while. And I was like, "Okay, well these things are gross. (pause for .02 seconds) And I think everyone thinks they're gross, but they're not unsafe." 
And in terms of like—I guess, now when I'm tired it's interesting cause sometimes I'll get more washy-handy cause I just don't—but recently I've been sleeping on my office floor, and I was eating an apple this morning that probably touched the TC, the back of the TC (ph), and I was just like, "Well, I'm hungry and I'm tired and in one bite it will be gone." [00:29:02]
Well, yeah, I still remembered it, but -
THERAPIST: But as you remember it, what are you feeling in terms of your anxiety?
CLIENT: (pause for .04 seconds) Ah, just a little, just a little peeved, but nothing, like, huge. So in some sense like (pause for .03 seconds) I think like being, putting myself in these challenging situations, like being in a public—like when I took the Amtrak all the way home, I sort of—I really put myself in a challenge because it was out of my comfort zone.
There was (sic) lots of public restrooms; lots of people; lots of tight, confined spaces; and, you know, I just sort of had to watch how other people did and sort of learn by example. And it sort of was relieving—I guess it's getting to the point where I just have to learn to deal with it and relax. And I think sometimes I relax when I see that other people don't care. [00:030:20]
THERAPIST: Umm.
CLIENT: And that was one thing on the plane, when I saw the flight attendant just picked it up at the end of the flight, I was like, "Well, I guess I won't worry about—you know—toilet paper on the bottom of the bathroom floor," yeah, it's gross but I guess it happens to everyone. It gets stuck on their shoe and, um (pause for .02 seconds)
So I guess in that sense, by putting myself in that situation—by having more of those situations it's a good thing, rather than just being isolated and protected. Protect myself away from those things. (sic)
THERAPIST: Umm hmm, cause you got to have experiences—not to say all of them great -
CLIENT: (laughs)
THERAPIST: but at least you're not, you're not—the more experiences you have the more options you have. [00:31:03]
CLIENT: Yeah, yeah, and that's sort of what I see. I mean, I sort of—I do get mad at myself in case—like today, after I used the restroom and I washed my hands and then I was—for some reason I was just doing some sort of ballet pose. I guess cause I'm really tired and I was like, "Oh -" yeah, this just came to my mind (ph). And I was just, " Okay, I don't know what I touched. Let me just wash my hands to be sure." And I was like, "Oh, no, no. Bad, bad." (laughs) And so I was, so I guess I'm learning to relax a little bit more in the bathroom or like check where my contact is, cause it was really bothering me.
So I'm getting a little bit more comfortable in the restroom. I made a good joke um, when I was (inaudible at 00:31:50) out for auditions and using the restroom, I was like, "I will use the restroom in order to rest."
THERAPIST: Umm.
CLIENT: (laughs) And I was thinking, "Well, wait -" you know, I mean normally I have stigmatized these public restrooms to be gross, and sometimes they are. But, I mean, they are where people have done their makeup before, or splashed water on their face, or done more than just used the restroom. And, yeah, it kind of sucks if it's gross, but I guess we'll all sort of live.
THERAPIST: Most of the time.
CLIENT: (laughs) Yeah. Um, so, yeah and so I guess—I mean I'm catching myself (pause for .02 seconds) I sort of—it's kind of like a reassurance thing, but then I realize that I need to relax about the reassurance. I need to deal with the stress. I need to challenge myself a little bit more.
THERAPIST: Umm. So rather than try to explain away your anxiety, it sounds like you're trying to acknowledge it -
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: so you can say to yourself, "Yep, I'm worried about this."
CLIENT: Yeah. (laughs)
THERAPIST: And then, let it go.
CLIENT: (laughs) Yeah.
THERAPIST: But you don't have to let it go by convincing yourself that nothing bad happened.
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: Which I think is probably true: that nothing bad happened.
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: Which is like—Yep, I mean, the towel is probably gross, but most likely it was not harmful. You can even step back and say, "Yep, that towel is gross," notice what you're feeling—maybe kind of anxious about the fact that it's so close to me -
CLIENT: Yeah. (laughs) 
THERAPIST: and then see if you can let that wave of anxiety run its course. 
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: Most of the time—and so far every time—your anxiety has gotten to a point where it's really uncomfortable. It reaches its peak—whatever that might be for that moment—it might be three, it might be seven, and then it goes down.
CLIENT: (whispering) Yeah.
THERAPIST: So if you can wait through that without necessarily convincing yourself that there's nothing to be anxious about, that's two different ways you have of managing the anxiety.
CLIENT: Yep.
THERAPIST: One is waiting it out, and figuring out how much distress you can tolerate; and the other is mentally soothing yourself. And you can treat them as two different tools it will give you a variety of ways to get through whatever the stressful situation is. [00:34:12]
CLIENT: Yeah, and I think that's where it's sort of—I realize like last year in a sense, like I was trying to—I was able to overlook it but not fully dismiss it. But I found like, now I've been just learning to laugh about it, like, "Oh, well, that was kind of silly," and just -
THERAPIST: Yeah, humor can be really useful, as long as you're not putting yourself down.
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: I don't want you to be the expense of the joke.
CLIENT: Yeah, no, I'm just more like, I would be like, "The flight attendant just picked it up, and here I was worried." Just like, "Silly me." 
THERAPIST: Umm.
CLIENT: I just sort of laugh about it, just sort of, "Oh, that was silly." Just sometimes little kids are afraid of things, just cause they really don't understand so they're afraid. And like when I was a little kid when my curtains sort of created this shadow, which I thought was a dragon, my dad convinced me that no, no, no, it was not a scary monster.
THERAPIST: Umm.
CLIENT: It was just a shadow and then I felt better. It wasn't like I was stupid—I was just, I did not have the frame of logic to -
THERAPIST: Um hmm, yeah, you didn't have that experience yet —
CLIENT: to understand—
THERAPIST: of being able to figure out what was a scary dragon and what was a harmless shadow. And it's not—so the same thing with your anxieties now. It's a really good analogy that you're bringing this up. You haven't yet discerned what is really a danger to you yet. 
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: If that shadow was really a dragon, that would've been very dangerous. It would've made sense that you were as scared as you were. [00:36:05]
CLIENT: Um hmm.
THERAPIST: As scared as you were. And now it—some of the explaining you do to yourself makes sense. It's like your dad coming in and helping you figure out what that shape on the wall was coming from. And so you can do some of that you know with—I think that's where we came up with: is it gross? Or is it dangerous?
CLIENT: Yeah, yeah.
THERAPIST: That's part of it.
CLIENT: And that's one thing—as my anxiety just (pause for .02 seconds) gets worse, I remember I'd look over and go (laughs), "Eww, that's gross and then just be like, "Oh, wow, is that person worried about it?" and it's like, " Well, no," okay, then I just, "Eww, it's gross."
THERAPIST: Umm.
CLIENT: Anytime my thoughts went to it, it would be, "Eww, that's gross," or like, "Why are you looking at it? Just pretend it's not there. You're going to be fine." And so, um -
THERAPIST: Can you take a deep breath with that? Like as you notice and it's gross, can you really take a deep breath (breathes in deeply) and let it (breathes out) go? Let the grossness and the anxiety and the breath go all together? [00:37:11]
CLIENT: I think I can definitely try that. I think maybe I take a little breath—actually what I do is literally I shudder. Like, eww.
THERAPIST: And that's okay too. I'm just—as I'm watching you talk about it I'm noticing your body, and every time you think about it, you pull in.
CLIENT: Really? (laughs)
THERAPIST: Which makes sense—you're literally shrinking away from this thing that feels -
CLIENT: Yeah. (laughs)
THERAPIST: that feels threatening. And that's a natural reaction. When we see something that's threatening or dangerous or gross, we pull away. But you're also sending signals back to yourself that you're anxious because that tight, shrinking feeling is an anxiety-tension producing feeling, so you don't want to exacerbate that in your body. [00:37:57]
So if you can take a deep breath and actually let yourself relax and let the muscles go—let them be warm and open, rather than pulled back and tight—you might send that signal back, like, "Okay, I've noticed it and now I'm actually, my body's okay with it."
Maybe your mind will follow a little bit; just one more way to interrupt that cycle of anxiety that starts in your head and then really gets into your body. You can work backwards.
CLIENT: Yeah, you know it's interesting cause I actually do know when I go to the hospital I sort of like meditate -
THERAPIST: That's a wonderful technique.
CLIENT: Yeah, it's just relaxing and just closing my eyes, and I tell myself I'll be fine if I just sit here and take a deep breath. I'm always very relaxed and I think that's sort of the thing is like, if I encounter like a new stimulus that I'm not prepared for I may learn how to just -
THERAPIST: Um hmm.
CLIENT: take a step back and realize I'm just going to be fine, you know. [00:39:01]
THERAPIST: Um hmm, transfer is one of those techniques (ph)—it sounds like you have that technique of being able to use the meditation or breath-work; it's often a piece of that.
I'm wondering how you could incorporate dance, or some of the skills that you must know from dance, into somehow helping you control your body reactions to the anxiety? I would imagine as a ballet dancer that you've got a lot of control over some of your muscles, and you could probably find a way to pull from one venue to another.
CLIENT: Yeah. (pause for .02 seconds) It's really interesting cause I have—it's been actually a long time since dance has like—normally I've been so focused on technique this past few years. It's very true that I've been like withdrawn from the actual feeling of it; feeling my body and being in touch with it, which is probably why I got put in intermediate cause I looked like I wasn't flowing with everything. [00:40:02]
But, um, (pause for .02 seconds) you know, and I think that's definitely true. Speaking of that, I have dance class on—probably—it starts at 6 o'clock, so that's definitely something that I can do with studying. You know, there's moves where you're supposed to be strong but also relaxed, and trying to sort of, um, integrate that into a time that I do want to tense up. Learning how to relax but remain the composure. (sic)
THERAPIST: Um hmm.
CLIENT: I mean, I know how to relax and just fall asleep on the floor (laughs) or I know how to be nervous, but I don't know how to like, —
THERAPIST: Yeah, finding those in-betweens, and control over those.
CLIENT: Yeah. (pause for .02 seconds) And it's really interesting cause living, um, (pause for .02 seconds) being so close now with my boyfriend, I sort of see that he sort of struggles with the same sort of issues. And he has to meditate before he goes to bed every night. [00:41:00]
And it's interesting cause I sort of see how he deals with stress and like (pause for .02 seconds) it's very interesting so I can see some comparisons, so like he can be wound up about so many things, and I just, "Well, you know, it doesn't really matter." And I see myself, like he doesn't know a lot about my germs; like he doesn't know so much about that.
Or like sometimes I'll just be very tense—he doesn't know I'm worried about acne and stuff. And you know, I'm just sort of seeing that it doesn't really matter. (laughs) Just to take a—and I guess maybe sort of like—taking a deep breath. That's one thing I don't—I get very caught up in the moment and frustrated, and near tears. [00:41:58]
And especially on my homework, but I guess now I'm starting to like—I sort of saw that when I was doing this last assignment I was getting very upset or worried that I wasn't going to be able to complete it. And then I went there and people had some idea, but they didn't like, they went to the office hour (ph) like me only they hadn't started the homework. 
And so, like, "Okay. Well maybe everyone else had similar questions."
THERAPIST: Umm.
CLIENT: So it's like—if I would just take a deep breath and say, "It's going to be okay. It really doesn't matter. If you're that confused, you can try and ask for an extension. You'll find someone to work with, " and I did. But—they're actually really nice: first year graduate students. But um, yeah, I think that's a—learning how to relax in the moment; I think that's something that I should definitely think about.
THERAPIST: Sometimes it's tricky in the midst of some sort of trigger to remember to do it.
CLIENT: Yeah. [00:43:03]
THERAPIST: So maybe a way to get into the practice of doing it—just getting used to doing it—is picking something that happens every day, or a spot that you go by every day. Is there something consistent most of your days?
CLIENT: (pause for .04 seconds) (laughs) Ah, I haven't been in a routine—normally it's my office, um, which is kind of messy but in the same sense it's sort of like, you know, I get there and I associate it with a one-hour break, so (laughs) I guess, yeah.
THERAPIST: So you're in your office almost every day?
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: So just for this coming week or two, before you sit down, when you get to your office: take a deep breath; see if you can let it go; see if you can relax your body; then sit down and do your work. Um, cause that's something—so you'll know that you will at least do it once most days of the week. [00:44:00]
And it's just a way of interrupting whatever process you're in, cause as you walk into your office you're probably thinking about something -
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: and if you can remember: 'Oh, before I sit down I want to take one deep breath.' Then you stand there and take one deep breath and go back to your day. You'll get in the habit of doing that, of at least taking that one breath.
CLIENT: Yeah. I'll try and do that.
THERAPIST: Then we can use that, once that's been ingrained after a week or two, we can use that in other places.
CLIENT: Yeah, and I think -
THERAPIST: Is that doable?
CLIENT: Very doable. Very good homework. (laughs) It's homework that I might have to ask questions on, but I know it's something that I at least know the premise of. (laughs)
THERAPIST: (laughs)
CLIENT: I know how to approach it, and that's always the —
THERAPIST: That's the start.
CLIENT: Yeah, that's always the hardest part.
THERAPIST: Okay. We'll wrap up there. Get you to practice that for a little bit. [00:44:52]
END TRANSCRIPT
