Transcript of Audio File:
______________________________________________________________________________
BEGIN TRANSCRIPT:
THERAPIST: What's on your mind?
CLIENT: I just had a frustrating ride over, just -
THERAPIST: Yeah, what happened?
CLIENT: - with the dog. I was parked on the side of the street where I had to let him in on...in the road. And a car is coming, so I'm pulling him back and he's biting me. I'm so...just sick of him biting me whether I have to pull him along, he stops. It just - and I just physically wasn't up for it. And I was just yelling at him, and some guy is walking by. And I got in the car and I just screamed at him. I just, you know, just...just so fucking frustrating. It's like...it's almost like I can't take it anymore. I just want to fucking get rid of the dog. I mean, he just...he's just like a constant force of frustration and anxiety and inconvenience. And it's just...just like one added thing that I just don't need, and there's nothing I can do about it. I don't have $300 to buy an indestructible cage for him. I mean, I don't have...I don't have any money. I'm just - (pause)
Supposed to have the closing in March, it didn't close. It's supposed to close last week, it didn't close. I don't know when it's going to close. I have no real money coming in to go out and buy this fucking cage. I can't keep fucking taking it with me everywhere, you know?
THERAPIST: Yeah. [2:05]
CLIENT: I mean, it's just really - you know I wasn't in that bad of a mood until that happened. I've been anxious because I got to do something today. And there's some things that I don't know exactly what I'm supposed to do. I got to file a lawsuit for this condo. And I just don't know. There are defendants and then there's parties in interests -
THERAPIST: With the bank?
CLIENT: - with the mortgage company, and then that has an execution on the defendant. I don't know if I have to serve a summons on them. You get a formal summons from a court and you fill it in and you have a sheriff serve it on the party. And I don't know if I need to do that for a party in interest or whether I just serve them by regular mail. And I could just ask the clerk, but it's just for some reason it's just gnawing at my stomach.
And it's been mostly yesterday, Jess, she had - first, Ian was sick, so I went over on Saturday to help her watch the kids. And she's bleaching everything and just going overboard on that. And then I get a text, I don't know if it was late Sunday or early Monday, that she's now throwing up. And that she's...she eased up on Ian because she thought he was getting better because he was throwing up. It started on Thursday and then he stopped. And then it seemed like he was getting better and started throwing up again. And she's worried about the baby. And the baby hasn't gotten sick, and I haven't gotten sick. Because I was over there all day yesterday, I was just...she's trying to lay down and sleep, I could not keep Ian from making excessive noise that didn't have to be made.
And it got to one point where I put him in a time-out and he wouldn't sit there and shut up. And I kept - well, the reason I put him in time-out is because I...I was on the couch, and I was like...I'm like, "Ian, please, come here," because he was in with his mom. And I was just...I need him to leave her alone. "Ian, please, come here." And after the fourth time, I went in and I picked him up and I put him in his room in the middle of the floor. And I said, "You're in time-out." And he starts talking, and I go, "There's no talking in time-out." He starts moving, and he playing with his toys. And so finally, Jess comes out and, because I started getting mad, and was like, "Why don't you just leave? This is...this is too much, just leave." And she caught herself very quickly in thanking me for coming over because I brought juice and Pedialyte. And, of course, I got the wrong Pedialyte, so I had to get more Pedialyte. And she wanted soy milk, so I went running all over getting her shit. And then she's like, "This is too much, just leave." And so I told him, I said, "If you don't sit in time-out, I'm going to take away one of your toys." And so I basically just took this little LeapFrog digj kind of game.
THERAPIST: Yeah. [5:37]
CLIENT: And I showed it to him, I stuck it in my coat pocket and said, "See you later." And all I could hear is him crying as I'm walking out the door. It was just such a stressful day. And I wanted to - I was able to watch Webinar, it was really what I had planned to do for the day. But I wanted to go to Pembroke and watch the Webinar, so I can kind of work on what I needed to do today. And I had ultimate handball last night, so I feel like I got to...I was going to try to go from here to Pembroke, but I've got to go back and take a shower. And just - I don't know. Just every moment to moment seems difficult. I just...just the fucking wind blowing is driving me crazy. It's just - I did that yoga workshop on -
THERAPIST: Right. [6:34]
CLIENT: - on Sunday. And it turns out most of the people there were yoga teachers. And so there was some coniston (ph) like people who use it in inpatient -
THERAPIST: Right.
CLIENT: — or like one woman - I don't know. I can't remember exactly where it was, but a lot of it was just people who just teach yoga. And so I think a vast majority of the number of people in the room - I mean, there was other people who were like me. But they really don't understand anxiety and depression. It just - you could just tell by the questions they're asking. And the teacher is very - well, she's a psychologist. And she has...there's been studies coming out showing how effective yoga can be for - and we did this 30 minute practice, and I'm sore from it. And we - it was really - it's...it's way beyond the level of a yoga...she said it sometimes takes people eight to ten years to do...to know exactly these -
THERAPIST: Right. [7:49]
CLIENT: - yoga things. If you're doing...you're moving parts of your...the spot between your ass and your penis. And it's like - so I don't know exact...I wasn't sure if I was doing the exact things right or whatever. Because I guess the research has shown that short frequent practice of yoga is better than 90 minute, you know? So -
THERAPIST: I see. So 30 minutes four times a week or something, five times a week instead of -
CLIENT: Right.
THERAPIST: - twice (inaudible at 8:29).
CLIENT: And she had us start by taking a baseline of how we felt. And I definitely felt the difference after doing -
THERAPIST: Yeah.
CLIENT: - the yoga. Just where my anxiety level was, I felt more kind of present and centered. And so I think ultimately that it may help me some, but I don't know. I'm just...it's like I got...everyday I've got - tomorrow I've got my first day of volunteering in the...the housing court. And I don't even - I'm supposed to be reading this book that's this fucking thick. And I leave it at the office, so I can't even...so I've got to go in the office today, work on this fucking complaint, drive it up to fucking Peabody, then drive it to Concord, and get it...record the complaint. And at some point read this fucking huge manual. I've got - there's a coach's clinic for soccer at 6 o'clock. It's just...I'm just completely overwhelmed with everything but stuff that's going to make me money. I'm going to make money on this...the work I'm going to do today, but it's just...it's too much. It's just...it's all too much. I just (pause) I'm just...just very anxious sitting there with the kids and getting texted for about E&amp;G.; And just...it just - I don't know. I mean, (pause) just - I don't know. I don't seem to be improving. It just...it just seems to be piling up. [10:43]
THERAPIST: Yeah. I think you're really scared for not seeing how this is going to get better. And because you're really not feeling able to manage the things you need to manage. (pause) [11:15]
CLIENT: It was nice playing handball last night, but it was just, I don't know. My toes were fucking numb, my fingers were burning. It's just...it's just I...I couldn't enjoy it because I was just so just...the weather was so biting. And just I don't know. I mean - and there was one point towards the end of the game, you know close to the end of the game, where I just started getting lightheaded. And it was like, "Ahh," like when I step up too quickly?
THERAPIST: Uh-huh. [12:05]
CLIENT: And so it's like...I'm like, "I'm going to have to fucking deal with that all season, I'm not sure how much I can play." I don't know if it's because I did something to low...lower my blood pressure or just because I haven't run and...since December. But I don't know. And then there's just...just unbelievable pressure to go to the pub afterwards and have a few beers. It's two of the people on my team or go to the past games with, and they just...just...I don't know why I just -
THERAPIST: Still hard to say no. [12:59]
CLIENT: Yeah. So there was $15 on two beers. I didn't eat anything, but it's - I don't have control of...of anything that's going on. (pause) I don't know if I'm going to get sick with this thing, you know? I don't know why Ian got it, threw up, got better, threw up, got better, and now he has diarrhea. And I know Jess was completely out of it. But you probably should have gone to the doctor yesterday after three or four days and you're not getting better. (pause) but I know she...she's just not taking care of herself. So I'm sure she just caught it like that (snaps fingers).
I don't know why the baby is not getting sick. I tend not to...the world is getting sick around me, and I don't get sick. I don't know. I can't remember the last time I've been sick with something, a stomach bug or anything like that. I just can't remember. But I'm thinking she just didn't give the kid enough fluids and he's dehydrated. That's why he has diarrhea. (pause) It's like I really don't want to go to this fucking soccer thing tonight, but it just - I don't know. I've got all these obligations and I just...they're...they're...I'm not getting anything from them. [15:13]
THERAPIST: I wonder if a lot more of how overwhelmed you feel is really from an internal problem more so than you think. I mean, clearly in terms of your - it's like the sort of events in your life, things are really overwhelming and trust me, I'm not...I would not say otherwise than that. But I think you're also in a situation where you are so furious with so many things in your life that at the same time you kind of need that it gets incredibly stressful and makes you incredibly anxious. So examples would be the kids, Ian, the other day, I'm sure that you were just ready to be done with him. Or the...the dog, you love the dog, but you're so fucking pissed at it because of how much grief and stress and just burden it adds to your life that in a way, I'm sure you want to just throw him out a window. Or leave him someplace or I don't know what, but just get rid of him. Or work, the suit, or the closing, I'm sure you're so fucking pissed at having to deal with it and with how much it adds...does add to your stress. You just want to be done with them, and tell the people involved to go fuck themselves and wash your hands of it.
But then in the end, that's the only way you're going to make money or your...you love the dog and you're committed to taking care of the dog and you like the companionship. And obviously with your family you're...you love your kids and want to do the best you can by them. So in the situation of already feeling so maxed out and having each of these things just add in a really infuriating way, I think it probably feels to you almost like I know you know better, but that these are things like designed to drive you fucking crazy. I think it...you're infuriated, you get totally engaged. And yet you're in a position where somehow you've got to manage that and act in a reasonable way in order to make money, in order to take care of the dog, in order to look after the kids. (pause)
So I guess what I'm saying is, I think part of what makes you so anxious is how incredibly angry you are. And how in the same way that you've always got to be thinking about money and how you are going to manage this, and where's that going to come from, and how you going to pay for this, and here's that new bill, and how you going pay off that account. And I would imagine kind of like that with how infuriated you are. Like, "Okay, how am I going to sort of suck it up and be reasonable with Ian? And how am I going to manage my frustration about this closing not closing, so that I can keep it going and not lose it or blow it?" Or, "How am I going to stand there and figure out how to do the things...hard work that I've ever done before, so that I can get paid for it?"
You're currently having to keep tabs on how engaged you are, so that it doesn't fuck everything up. (pause) And so I'm more speculative because I talked about it, but I can imagine you feel some degree of (inaudible at 20:38) here. Like, I know you know in your head like how, "I can't help, and what I can't do, and what I can't." I don't think you have wrongheaded ideas about that or you can imagine that like I can go out and get people to (inaudible at 20:52) closing.
But at the same time, I think you're kind of frustrated because you're not getting better. And I suspect you get, other than what's frustrated with me, but worry about suspecting it. Because A, you feel like I'm probably doing a reasonable job. And B, you don't want to alienate where you're alienating me. And yet you're sitting here talking about all these things that are totally overwhelming you or totally frustrating you or really making you very scared you're not going to be able to keep it together. And I don't say much. (pause) [22:04]
CLIENT: That's the problem, there's no answers. I'm throwing all against this. I've got to do all this fucking shit for the taxes and stuff for the IRS, the financial forms in addition to getting all the stuff to my CPA. It's just my...my life is so disorganized, I don't know where anything is. The CPA sends a packet that you kind of fill out and send in, and I don't know where it fucking is. I don't know what I did with it. I don't know where - Jess - there was...I had stuff on the table, she had clients come in and just fucking put stuff all over the office. And I'm like, "When am I going to have time to fucking go and look?" I mean, just - I'm just - I'm completely just (pause) I don't know. Keep meaning to...to...to do things and I forget and I don't do anything. (pause)
THERAPIST: It's probably (inaudible at 23:39) is it's completely overwhelming to think about what may be going on. (pause)
CLIENT: It's like there's just so much stuff that I can't even remember all of it to do it when I have moments to do it. It's like I think about it now, but I don't think about it when I'm in the apartment where I could go and look -
THERAPIST: Yeah. [24:16]
CLIENT: - all over the apartment.
THERAPIST: I see.
CLIENT: It just - (pause) I was in the office the other day, I didn't...I didn't bother looking in the office. And in the meantime, I'm getting these title stuff coming in. And their, "Oh, by the way, I need this rush by the end of the week." And I'm thinking to myself, "When the...when the fuck am I going to do this?" I think Friday everything is closed for Good Friday, so it can't go to the registry.
Got fucking E&G; sucking up my whole day on Thursday, tomorrow I'm in court all day, today I'm spending all day fucking trying to figure out this fucking complaint and driving to Peabody and then driving down to Concord, and just all for a fucking $175 that's...is just going to do absolutely nothing for me. I don't have any money to pay my fucking rent in the office. I'm going to go in there today, and they're going to ask me for money. I'll be like, "Ahh," you know? Can't juggle it, I just can't fucking juggle it. (pause) I'm not making any of this shit up. I'm not overexaggerating any of this. I'm not you know -
THERAPIST: No, it doesn't sound that way. [26:23]
CLIENT: This is fucking real and there's nothing I can do about it. And throw in among all of this, that I can't get out of my own way. It's like if I wanted to...if I wanted to fucking spend all night fucking reading that damn book, I can't. Because from 6:00 to 7:30, I've got to go fucking this stupid fucking coach's clinic, so I'm going to fucking come home, be home at 8:00, at 8:00 at night when I'm completely fucking exhausted, start reading this fucking thing? I got to get up early in the morning, so I can get to Concord by fucking 8:30. Lord knows how long I'm going to be in court for.
Just (pause) I can't - I have no one to rely on for help. I wanted to ask Jess if she could look in the office, but I can't because she's fucking sick. And I asked her for bank statements a while ago, so I can do the financial forms. And I've been like, "What's the point of asking her for these statements because I'm not going to get around to doing these fucking forms?" (pause) [28:20]
THERAPIST: I think part of what...part of why you get in your own way and I am aware that I'm not proving a solution to this is how infuriated you are getting stuck with everything. After you go over all of God's green earth for $175, and gone to a coach's clinic that isn't going to make you any money, and come home, you're so sick of it and so frustrated with it. That the idea of making yourself do something else that's also going to make you mad is unconceivable.
And (pause) I don't know if this is true, but I just had a thought like, I could imagine that I don't know if it's - I think it's helpful to come in here, good place to talk. I mean, I'm very glad because that's a good thing, but I couldn't imagine. It's also very frustrating. You come in here, you talk about all this stuff. I listen, but don't really give you any answers or tell you what you need to do or in a sense shoulder the burden for you. I just sit here. I mean, I say some stuff. I have money for doing that, I don't see running around all over the place. I imagine that's infuriating. [32:44]
CLIENT: I know, I'm like - it's not just with you, but I look at everyone and I'm like, "Why is...why is things working out for...for all these people? Why...why is...why is this person's law practice working? Why is your practice working?" Why - what...what am I doing wrong? And I can't just fucking start over. I can't just say, "Fuck it, I'm going to do something else." I just - I'm...I'm literally at a point that I'm...I'm...I'm stuck. I'm not...I'm not making this up. I'm stuck. I can't do anything to change.
I don't have the money to spend to do a marketing campaign for my estate planning stuff. I don't have the tools, the staff, the time. I just - you know my fucking - the...the real estate market is fucking gone to hell. And I...I'm so dependent on other people doing their jobs and getting work to give to me. And it's like the people I'm relying on are just not doing it for me. And I can't get people who I can rely on to send me business consistently. And I had one person who did that and he's fucking retired.
For a couple years, Claire was like that, but she's - I don't...I don't even know what the fuck she's doing. Go to her website and the only listing is my fucking condo. (pause) It's just I'm fucking sick to my stomach with this whole fucking thing. I could just - and it...it makes it more difficult to complete tasks because of it. I'd rather do some fucking distraction, sitting at home fucking doing nothing, playing poker on my phone, just doing something else than fucking having to face it or deal with it. I'm looking for ways to get around doing it. [35:42]
THERAPIST: Yeah. You're torn between doing what you need to do and doing it managed. I don't know if you can manage how pissed off you are I think. (pause) [36:01]
CLIENT: It's like at The pub, one of the guys is like, "You going to the show?" And I'm like, "the show? Oh, fucking Phish concerts." And I'm like, "No. I'm not going to any fucking Phish concerts." I can't even pay my rent. My tenants can't pay their rent so I can pay my rent. I'm waiting for something catastrophic to happen to me that just...I'm just...I don't know what it's going to be, but there's just going to be something that I'm just not going to be able to take or handle.
And yesterday was anything but proof to Jess that I'm...I'm not able to move back in and live with them. I mean, all...all I've done in cemented in her mind is just how I can't handle the fucking children. She's fucking yelling at the kids too, all the time I hear her fucking yelling at the kids. I start raising my voice, she starts getting into me, "Cameron, stop, you know, Ahh." And I'm like, "I hear you, leave me alone. Stop, I understand. You fucking do it too."
I can't win, I can't catch a break. I can't - (pause) I've got no fucking food in my house. So it's like, at some point I got to go shopping. When am I going to have fucking time to go shopping for food so I can eat? (pause) I didn't even eat dinner last night, I had a fucking apple. I don't even think I had lunch. (pause) Had a couple spoonfuls of alphabet soup that I'm feeding the kids, couple of cookies, and that's it. (pause) [39:55]
THERAPIST: You know there's two different things that occurred to me today. So one is very assuring, but I don't think it's very much sort of...I'm trying to be reassuring about how things are going. On the other hand, it's to say, "Well, turn around, back up, and deal with this or deal with that." But you're dealing with (inaudible at 41:49) to handle. I mean, you're having to work so hard keeping together the extent that you are. [42:06]
CLIENT: My mom...my mom asked me how I was doing. And I said, you know I gave her, "I'm alive," kind of -
THERAPIST: Yeah.
CLIENT: And she starts going, "Well, I...I always look on the positive things. I always try to be a positive person." And I'm just like...I just want to fucking slam the phone. It's like, "Are you kidding me? That's your response?" (pause)
THERAPIST: You can stop (inaudible at 43:29).
CLIENT: We're meeting at 8:45?
THERAPIST: Yep.
CLIENT: Good Friday.
END TRANSCRIPT
