<font size="4"><b>Seven</b></font>

AT LEAST around WJZ no one had any idea that there
would be much more to broadcasting an inaugural than
planting a man there with instructions to use his eyes and ears
and put into words over a microphone whatever lie saw. As
the only man with even rudimentary experience along these
lines, I was told to go down to Washington and do the job.
I didn't have any apprehension until I got there and discovered
that the WEAF man, Graham McNamee, had a
whole staff with him: research man, to help prepare the program;
secretary; publicity representatives; and several leg
men. McNamee's A. T. &amp; T. network would take in twenty-one
stations; our RCA hookup, eight or ten. This Canadian
boy began to worry.


In the evening quiet of March 3 I went to the Capitol to
size up the situation. My position was going to be simple 
as far as it went; my mike would be on a rail in front of a
chair in the first row on the Capitol steps, just to the right
of the center aisle down which the President-elect would
come to take the oath of office.


McNamee, on the other hand, was to have a booth, constructed
especially for him, a glass enclosure about six feet
square, placed at the top of the aisle and with an unobstructed
view of the platform and the great plaza. The booth
was just to the left of the doorway through which the official
participants and dignitaries would pass. One thing became

[p. <i>60</i>]

I went over the whole layout from top to bottom. An electric
cactus plant of six microphones bristled from a specially
constructed holder, mounted in front of the podium where
the President would stand, the biggest "gang mike" setup
ever attempted. I measured distances with my eye, timing
them. I figured a possible "accident loss," emergencies that
could spring up to interfere with a smooth-flowing broadcast.
When I had the whole picture as clearly in mind as could
be on any dry run, I hurried off to the public library to bone
up, making notes on inaugurals from Washington's day down
to this March 4, 1925. Then I went to the hotel, to snatch
some sleep if possible, anyway rest and still the nerves.


About eight o'clock the next morning, stopping only for
a cup of coffee, I sped out Pennsylvania Avenue for a check-look
at everything. Again I studied that marvelous microphone
setup. I sensed that it had a technical importance far
beyond this day. Today radio was going to give the horizons
of communication a big push; history would be made.


"Are you going to be the announcer?" someone behind me
asked. It was a press photographer, sorting out his equipment.
"Dawn of press-radio competition" flashed through my mind.


"Yes," I said, making it sound blas. Actually I was a badly
scared young man with a job so big that it frightened hell
out of me. The only thing I was proud of was a new hat. I
didn't have second sight and couldn't know that, for all
his glass booth and assistants, I would hold my own so well
with McNamee that in 1929 I'd be assigned <i>with assistants</i> to
the Hoover inaugural, and by the time of Roosevelt's first
inaugural my assistants would number eight, covering the
whole line of march and dogging the President from the oath-taking
right back to his plush-upholstered chair in his new
White House office.


The photographer and I talked about this national hookup,
the first for an inaugural. "How about a picture in front of
the mikes?" he said.


"Sure." I gave a tug to my new hat.

[p. <i>61</i>]

"How do you spell your name?" he said. With some misgiving
for not mentioning McNamee (how fraternal did you
have to be?) and hoping the photographer wouldn't ask me
about the booth up top, I said I was Norman Brokenshire,
this was WJZ-RCA; now if McNamee didn't suddenly appear,
this might be the bread cast upon the waters that would come
back cake; I'd have a clear scoop on the publicity. How right
I was. Newspapers from coast to coast carried that UP picture;
as it turned out, Calvin Coolidge and I were the only
ones to get our pictures taken at those historic microphones,
the greatest publicity break I had ever had; not a bad beginning
in a tight situation, I thought to myself; it had paid
to get up early in the morning! Who needed a secretary and
a publicity representative! The center fold in several magazines
was to show on a map the positions of all stations, both
A. T. &amp; T. and RCA, which took the broadcast; lines were
drawn in to show all the stations converging on the Washington
area, marked by a picture of the carbon microphones
and Brokenshire, name spelled right, new hat and all.


Both networks knew that the real importance of this first
coast-to-coast chain broadcast of an inaugural lay in first getting
the listening audience and second holding it throughout.
All known technical facilities had been installed to make the
signal clear regardless of distance from Washington. Here
was the full-scale test that might lead to commercial tie-ups;
here was the test that would show which chain could scoop
the other, with the greatest listening audience, the best
publicity.


My operator set up below the staircase, with his line amplifier
and two lines to New York, one to carry the program,
one kept open for instantaneous communication between the
studio and me and to serve also as a spare in case of trouble.


At nine o'clock the operator and I tested the lines. I talked
sights and sounds. Crowds were gathering. The studio said,
"You take the air at eleven forty-five; that'll give you approximately
fifteen minutes for running description and side lights,
leaving a half hour for the actual proceedings, scheduled to
commence on the dot of twelve." I checked a fistful of papers,
all my notes on previous inaugurals, some jottings on the

[p. <i>62</i>]

For a few seconds we felt confident we were safe. Then it
hit New York and me simultaneously; our wires were A. T.
&amp; T., therefore the WEAF engineers had undoubtedly overheard
my instructions, would junk their plans, get McNamee
on before ten forty-five.


"Take the air at ten thirty," New York snapped to me. I
began to collect myself, but then I got the fast one. My
operator, waving his arms to catch my attention hollered,
"You're on the air! Take it!" The time was precisely 9:44:30.
The night before when I was trying to go to sleep I thought,
I've got too many notes, what did I make so many for? Now I
thought, Am I lucky!


I was lucky up to a point. WJZ had won. I was on the air
first, all right. But how to fill the air from nine forty-five
to twelve noon? Well, you'll never find out till you try.


Color and behavior of gathering crowds ... messenger boy,
halted by a policeman as he rushes by ... last night's excitement
throughout the city ... pencil-slim shaft of Washington
Monument at midnight ... Andrew Jackson ... serried ranks
of seats around me, empty now, soon to be filled with duly
elected representatives of the People ... majesty of the U. S.
Supreme Court ... Mr. Chief Justice Taft ... knows how it
feels to be sworn in as President ... his odd and interesting
skullcap, good for twenty seconds of description ... first oath
administered to Mr. Coolidge by his father, in dead of night
in Vermont farmhouse kitchen ... subsequently questioned
because Colonel John Coolidge only a state officer, justice of
the peace ... oath administered second time August 17, 1923,
before A. A. Hoeling, Justice of U. S. Supreme Court, after
Coolidge comes down to Washington ... so this will be his
third oath as President ... President Buchanan's White House
hostess his sister Jane's daughter Harriett, because Buchanan
was a bachelor ... Mrs. Thomas Jefferson died nineteen years
before her husband became President, for a time Mrs. James

[p. <i>63</i>]

I left history and statistics. A man ran across the flat roof
of a big building off to the left. Dramatize his position....
He's excited.... Do Secret Service men spot him? What's he
doing there anyhow? Look out! Whew! Thought sure he was
going to topple over the edge....


For a blessed minute or so that man helped WJZ-RCA and
me to hang on to the collective ear. Who is he? Who can say?
Who knows? Who has time to care?


More crowds, more notes, more impressions, then the U.S.
Marine Band arrived. Ears from Maine to California heard
seventy bandsmen reaching for the perfect A, squealing,
tootling, blowing; now I could safely jump off to an estimate
of what radio would henceforth mean in terms of great events,
to be brought into the American home at the very moment
of their occurrence. From now on, by means of radio, inevitably
world history would be heard in its very making.


I used my name at every decent opportunity. For the nice
listeners I think I even spelled it several times.


The seats around me were slowly filling. Still an hour to
go. Once a pompous individual swooped by, in a dither about
finding the seat suited to his importance. The idea hit me
to spill a lot of notes in his path; as he couldn't get by without
helping me pick them up, I squeezed an interview out of him.
His face was unfamiliar to me, I have no idea who he was;
if he reads this, a tardy "Thank you, sir."


Relief was in sight; the band was ready. The Chief Justice
arrived, lumbering down the stairs, scattering his famous
chuckle among friends. The moment he sat down he became
the embodiment of the judicial system, the majesty of the law.
He touched his skullcap, settling it tightly on the round head,
gave a tug to the regal robes of heavy, rustling silk, gazing
about him benignly, Mr. U.S. Supreme Court, in the flesh....


There was a flurry at the top of the stairs. The square figure
of Calvin Coolidge came in view. (Oh, yes, Mrs. Coolidge, her
family, and some close friends, having been seated, were good
for several minutes of air time.) Mr. Coolidge descended the
stairs, stepping precisely, the wind plucking at a strand of

[p. <i>64</i>]

The National Anthem ... the Invocation ... the family
Bible brought forth, large, old-fashioned, appropriately worn.
Mr. Chief Justice Taft stands up, clears his throat slightly,
gives the left edge of his robe an absent hitch, raises his right
hand, directing the President to do likewise, placing his left
hand on the Bible, and speaks the opening words. "Repeat
after me, I do solemnly swear...."


Pitching my own voice low, I noted the Vermont twang in
the President's speech, in contrast with the rolling Ohio
hard-R roundness of Mr. Taft's.


In a few minutes it was over. The dignitaries turned their
backs on the microphones, slowly climbed the stairs. "This is
Norman Brokenshire, who now returns you to the studio in
New York...."


In midafternoon I knew I had set a record (it stands to this
day), two hours and fifteen minutes consecutively filled to the
brim with wordsand absolutely nothing prearranged to say!


I returned to New York feeling like the conquering hero.
But no time was allotted in those days for resting on laurels,
and I plunged back into the regular schedule laid out for me.


There was a weekly evening broadcast from the Commodore
Hotel, lovely dinner music under Bernard Levitow's baton;
every once in awhile a song plugger would get the chance to
sing a chorus of a new song. It gave me an idea. (This radio
business is really for me; I want to be in it up to my neck.)
Why couldn't I do more than merely announce numbers? I
tried getting right up to the microphone when the orchestra
was playing something I knew and liked, whistling along with
the orchestra for a chorus, ending with "Pretty, isn't it?" It
seems fantastic now, but of such things were huge studio
mails made, and mail was the barometer. I began looking for
more gimmicks.


There were some beautiful canaries in cages in the hotel
lobby. I got to wondering what it would be like to bring into
the broadcast the sound of their singing, so I primed the
operator to move our line amplifier, putting the announcing
microphone over by the cages. Before coming in at the end
of a number, I would hesitate; if the canaries were singing, I

[p. <i>65</i>]

It was radio that gave the dance orchestras the idea of
having identifying themes. At the old Pennsylvania Hotel,
now the Statler, George Olsen's theme was not a conventional
melody; it was a whole production based on the sound of an
approaching train, done in rhythmic music, very ingenious.
Train in the distance, coming closer and closer, over a simple
melody, like wheels turning ... the brass section would reverse
their mouthpieces, blow into their instruments in tempo, producing
the effect of a hard-working engine ... slower, slower,
then a great hiss of steam, the bell would clang....As "passengers
alighted from the train," I would describe them.
"There, I see her now, Aunt May, down from New Hampshire
to visit us...." "Hmm-mmm-mmm, Congressman Updown
looks a little worried, but Congressmen always look worried
when it's lame-duck time...." "Now here's what I call a
lovely lady. Someone ought to write a song about her. George?
How about it? There is one, you say? Corn-fed Indiana girl,
but she's Sweetheart to me? Get along with you, George,
aren't you ashamed!"


In one way it was all nonsense, but it was nonsense that
integrated me with the program. Sometimes I recited the
lyrics of a song. "Drifting and Dreaming" registered a big hit
and was the sort of thing that prompted orchestra leaders to
ask for me by name to handle their broadcasts.


Radio was well on its way. The thing the WJZ management
had fought to avoid got out of hand; no longer could announcers
be held down, kept in the background. With thousands
of homes adding radios daily, with interest in better
programs and broadcasts mounting, suddenly announcers
emerged as the lifeblood of the stations, the direct, human
link between program material and the listening audience.
Announcers were the new matinee idols!

[p. <i>66</i>]

My own mail was now unmanageable, hundreds of letters
every single day. I was being demanded for public appearances.
When the Metropolitan Theatre League, meeting at
the Hotel Astor, persistently requested the station to let me
come and make a talk, the powers had to capitulate. Were
they going to continue sitting on their high horse and risk
alienating from radio listening members and friends of the
Metropolitan Theatre Leagueand potential RCA buyers?


WJZ made one condition. They would accept speaking
engagements for me <i>strictly</i> on a no-pay basis. I didn't split
hairs. I was building a reputation, a career; the money would
come.


From an unexpected direction radio artists and announcers,
radio itself, received another push. The English Department
of New York University decided to run a voice test on the
various popular announcers, determining which ones ranked
as good examples of the use of the English language. It was
emphasized that this was not to be a contest, rather a serious
scientific test.


The professors came with their recording apparatus, taking
down various announcing voices at normal chores of reading
from script, ad-libbing, and so on. The recordings were
graded by the English department staff, and there was quite
a build-up for giving out the results.


Graham McNamee, of WEAF, was declared winner, with
a rating of 87.3. Brokenshire of WJZ was next, 86.9. Naturally
I was disappointed; however, a difference of four-tenths of a
point seemed mighty small. I accepted it philosophically and
went on about my business.


There was a curious sequel. I was to receive some secret
information from my very special girl; it was I who had won!
I still have a copy of that letter addressed by Mr. RCA himself
to Mr. Popenoe. For certain business-political reasons of the
moment it seemed best to let the WEAF announcer win; consequently
the results were quietly juggled, giving me second
place. There were moments when I wanted to make a noise
about it, but when all was said and done, it was a minor
matter, purely intramural, so I kept still. Now both Popenoe

[p. <i>67</i>]

Each out-of-studio broadcast was becoming more interesting
than the preceding one. A memorial to Thomas Alva Edison
was to be unveiled and dedicated at Menlo Park, New Jersey.
It certainly merited broadcast. I was eager to meet one of my
long-time heroes.


By this time Mr. Edison was quite deaf, though he remained
a pleasant and uncomplicated man. He showed me through
the laboratories himself, explaining equipment and the origin
of many wonderful inventions and developments. He impressed
me by the way in which he seemed to feel that I was
the one who should be thanked, for taking the trouble to
come and put the ceremonies on the air; to me the interesting
thing was the way his own quiet self set the mood of what
turned out to be a quiet but very effective broadcast.


The internal workings of the so-called variety shows of that
period were mildly laughable. The format ran pretty much
the same; only the names were changed. There would be an
orchestra, a male quartet, a soloist, and the announcer. When
the show was sponsored by the Reading Railroad, its name
was Reading Railroad Revelers; when the Pennsylvania Railroad
paid the bills (for the same artists), the orchestra was the
Pennsylvania Orchestra, the quartet the Pennsylvania Keystoners,
the announcer in both cases Norman Brokenshire.
Having a taste for alliteration I like to recall that I was the
one who dubbed them the Reading Railroad Revelers; subsequently,
holding the last name, the Revelers quartet became
famous, at times boasting such tenors as Franklin Bauer,
Frank Parker, and Jimmy Melton.


Aviation, not only as military but as civilian transport, was
gaining a hold on people's imagination. A plane equipped
with a short-wave transmitter was to fly in circles over Central
Park in New York, to test radio as a two-way method of communication,
between a plane in flight and the ground. I was
assigned to a vantage point in the park with a specially constructed
receiving set, to attempt the two-way conversation
with the pilot as he flew overhead.


A crowd gathered; I was in my glory. Several times I tried

[p. <i>68</i>]

With every step of this kind WJZ gained in stature. The
soft tenor voice of another announcer, Milton Cross, a singer
before he was hired as announcer, was often heard on scheduled
operatic programs. To the musical staff of WJZ had
been added Godfrey Ludlow, a splendid violinist from
Australia. With Keith McLeod and Cross and Ludlow this
made a very fine musical combination, so good in fact that
a regular Sunday evening broadcast spot that I announced
led to a concert, one May night in Aeolian Hall. I was given
the pleasant task of announcing the concert, too; WJZ saw
it as an excellent means of letting part of the listening
audience see several of their radio friends together in person.
What a change of heart!


No longer were announcers reduced to waylaying performing
talent, dragging it into the studio. Now there was an
office staff whose business it was to make contacts with people,
like the Landay Brothers, sellers of musical instruments, and
the great Wurlitzer Company. In turn these people had contacts
with musical schools and organizations that, if approached,
would prepare well-rehearsed programs by capable
talent. It led to the original form of sponsorship. The Con
Edison, Snyder's Catsup, Cliquot Club, Maxwell House
Coffee, Royal Typewriter, Bonnie Laddie Shoe people, and
many other firms sponsored orchestras and other musical
groups or individual artists, receiving free air time in exchange
for paying the talent. This was a major forward step.
Paid-talent programs were naturally superior to the hit-or-miss
program in which passers-by dropped in and sang for free.
The way was opening to commercial radio, which, whatever
else can be said about it, has been the means of bringing free

[p. <i>69</i>]

Up to now advertising agencies had been inclined to look
down their august noses at radio, on the assumption that it
was a temporary ripple on the waters of progress. But now
agency men one by one began wondering if perhaps they had
been too hasty; if another selling medium were not emerging
to be ranked with newspaper and magazine ads, billboards,
and car cards. Was it conceivable that the mysterious force of
radio could be utilized to inject names of products into the
day-to-day word-of-mouth conversation of millions of people?


The advertising agencies began edging into the picture.

