TRANSCRIPT OF AUDIO FILE:
______________________________________________________________________________
INTRODUCTION:
The following transcript was provided by The American Academy of Psychotherapists. AAP was founded in 1954 as a multidisciplinary group of committed therapists who promote the art and science of psychotherapy.  AAP is dedicated to fostering the development of the therapist at all levels, from graduate students to seasoned veterans. Over the years, AAP developed a series of recorded sessions, where well-known therapists provided examples of his or her particular brand of therapy.
BEGIN TRANSCRIPT:
THERAPIST: I'm Miriam E. Berger, psychiatric social worker, marriage counselor and psychotherapist in private practice in New York City. This tape is a demonstration of Option Method. A new, humanistic, here and now therapy that has a broad, eclectic base.
In Option Method we talk a lot about happiness and unhappiness. And use them as shorthand words. For instance, by happy we mean the range from feeling okay, content, at peace, relaxed to feeling at times joyous and occasionally ecstatic. Unhappiness includes the whole range of negative emotions.
Option Method's unique contribution is the awareness that we use unhappiness to help ourselves to become happier. Such as berating myself to motivate myself to do better. Why do I want to do better? So that I'll be happier. Option Method explores the myths and the various uses of unhappiness and opens up more alternatives for the client than he or she was aware existed. [0:01:22.8]
This particular tape is a therapy session with Don, a man in his late 20's. A social worker who had previous therapy with a male therapist and has been in therapy with me for several years. His name has been changed and there are several erasures of identifying data in the tape that are very brief. At the end of the therapy session there is a bit of supervisory discussion as Don is also having supervision in the broad sense of the word. That is the best way to learn Option Method is to experience it personally.
During the last year and a half Don has been in individual therapy every other week. Prior to that he had a combination of individual and group therapy. Don has been separated from his wife, Rosalie, for several months. The people he mentions on the tape are his brother, Frank, Frank's wife Angela, and Anna, his current lover. Some of the themes that Don deals with in the tape are sexual fantasies, selfishness versus taking care of oneself and trusting oneself. [0:02:44.6]
For more information about Option Method you may want to read my article entitled, "Getting to the Unchangeable Core by Option Method" in Voices, spring 1975.
After this introduction the voice you will hear most will be Don's as he is a very insightful person. And therefore able almost to do self therapy. Having incorporated option values, he requires only a little support, direction and feedback from me.
One of the basic concepts of Option Therapy is that the therapist serves as a model parent in order to replace the harsh, driving superego or toxic parent who in childhood used unhappy ways of helping the child to grow. Most clients are their own worst enemy rather than their own best friend. Option Method zeroes in on increasing self esteem so that they can become their own best friend. And now to the therapy session. [0:03:57.9]
BEGIN SESSION:
CLIENT: You're busy? Still seeing Anna. Have done just about every one of my sexual fantasies. Yeah just about every one. I was telling her the other day, "I have to come in and tell Miriam. She'll be happy." But yeah, we've just about exhausted all of my major fantasies. I don't think there are any left.
And it's not so frightening anymore. It was frightening for little while. I think just about a couple weeks ago, shortly after I left here, I had started acting out some more of the violent ones. And that was a bit scary. Because I didn't know how far I was going to let myself go. And whether I was really a mean, ugly person inside. And all of that. [0:05:05.0]
And I guess at this point I'm still in a bit of limbo about that. That okay, I found somebody who has the same fantasies that I do. Who enjoys acting them out to the point of not getting hurt certainly. The violence is willing on both parts. Nobody is getting hurt. Nobody is getting any black or blue marks.
THERAPIST: You mean it's a fantasy violence?
CLIENT: Well it's actually rape or whatever it is but it's not where I have to hurt her. Or she fights back to the point where she hurts me. It's not an uncontrollable thing. It's not like we're both out of control. It's deliberately planned. [0:05:51.9]
THERAPIST: Yeah.
CLIENT: So nobody gets hurts. And it's a pleasurable experience. It's an enjoyable one. But nonetheless, it's still for me, raping someone. Which had made me feel a number of things. One was that I was terrible. And I guess I've been feeling similar in between that I'm either a very creative person sexually or that I'm a very sick person. Just happens to have found someone as sick as he is. I think it's going to stay there for awhile until I can get a little bit more used to me.
THERAPIST: All right. Instead of judging it as sick, how about exploring what does it mean? What can you learn about yourself from this? Does the rape symbolize something? Or does the wish to inflict violence, can that tell you something about yourself? Where you're still at? Or where you've come from? I think that would be more useful that just worrying about your diagnosis as to whether you're sick or not. [0:06:58.0]
CLIENT: Yeah I haven't sat down and explored it but I'm very much aware of what it means. Because half of the sex that I've had with Anna is either rape or just the opposite. And by just the opposite I always mean me being raped. I mean it's either me raping her or me being a little child. And being taken care of and mothered and all of that.
I'm pretty sure that where I'm at is historically that I didn't quite get the mothering that I wanted. Or that I needed. And really want that on one hand.
THERAPIST: Which is true of most of us, right?
CLIENT: I'm sure. So that in a sense I would do anything to get the mothering. But on the other hand I'm angry that I never got it. It's like half of me wants to beg to get mothered and half of me would like to—you know, you have some nerve not mothering me. And take it. So I'm pretty sure that's where I'm coming from. There are very mixed feelings. [0:08:15.8]
I know that a part of me is very, very angry at women. But that's nice to be able to express that with somebody that I love. It's just a much different feeling because it doesn't make me feel ugly at all. Later on I become a little nervous that maybe I'm letting too much of myself go and someday my mind is just going to snap in the middle of one of these things. But that won't happen. It just won't happen.
But I'm just very cautious at times. I'm not really afraid that I'm going to snap. I'm afraid that I'm going to do something and finally Anna is going to say, "Geez. You're crazy. You really are crazy." And then what will I feel? Will I feel that here I've met this woman with the same fantasies as me and all of that and she's liberal and all of this, and even she thinks now I'm crazy? I even went beyond her. And I could do that. I find that sometimes there is no limit to the things I can conjure up. [0:09:26.5]
THERAPIST: It could mean though that she just has more of a limit than you or a different limit than you.
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: Or she had a different emotional background and so certain things are okay for her and other things aren't.
CLIENT: Well yeah I know she's coming from the same place as me. In that she's sometimes afraid to do things with me because she's afraid I won't like them. I guess I've been taking more of a chance in that sense. But lately I've been telling her that I can't conceive of anything I wouldn't like with the exception of getting hurt. I said, "I don't want you to ever hurt me. Don't you ever pull out a knife even in a joke. Or anything. That, no. That is completely absent from the beginning and it will be until the end." Anything else I would probably find enjoyable. If I saw that there was a threat to my body or my life that would take the enjoyment out of it. But anything else I really believe I would enjoy. [0:10:26.2]
And I'm surprised at myself. I'm surprised that I am so creative in sex. Some of it's creative. Some of it's learned. I've read a lot of books. It's funny that I've put down my book reading and I feel guilty about that. For years reading any kind of pornography. Some of my best ideas come from that now. Some of the things she enjoys the most come from the books I've been reading. And I said, "Geez. Why couldn't I have thought of it all those years as an education?"
THERAPIST: Yeah.
CLIENT: Instead of as me being perverted and sick. So a lot of new thoughts are coming into my head. I guess a lot of new ways of looking at this. At this whole thing called sex. I'm still really not sure what it is. I'm finding out that one of the things it does for me is allows me to express all of my feelings. My loving feelings and my angry feelings with someone that I love in a nice way. In an acceptable way. Feelings that are related to sex and feelings that aren't. It's like all feelings can come out in sex. [0:11:50.3]
THERAPIST: Sounds like a very therapeutic medium.
CLIENT: Yeah. Yeah it is. I realized it before. These feelings were never able to come out with other people I had been in bed with. I think that was a lot of holding back on my part. It's also a strange freedom to be able to do anything that I think of when I think of it. That's a strange feeling to have that freedom. But I guess where I'm still at is torn between am I just out of my mind or have I just been exposed to more?I was telling her the other day maybe one of the reasons why I am the way I am is because I've always had restrictions put on me.
Because she had wondered where I got all of my fantasies from. And I said, "Well the only way I could explain it is if somebody told you for 20 years that you weren't allowed to look in this drawer, for those 20 years you'd have constantly thought of what different things could be in the drawer. And that's what I've done. My mind has just gone crazy in terms of sex and sex and sex and all kinds of fantasies. If they had let me see it a week after puberty, I probably wouldn't have all those ideas. Sex would probably be a very enjoyable thing but very uneventful." [0:13:25.5]
THERAPIST: Natural.
CLIENT: If I can use the words. Yeah natural. And for me it's not. It's an exciting thing. It's especially exciting now because I can do all the bad things I've always wanted to do. And not only do them but actually see that somebody enjoys me doing them. That just clicks for me sometimes.
THERAPIST: Yeah she allows it and she allows you to allow it in your thoughts.
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: And I guess it's kind of rare in life that we have that opportunity. And you're really lucky to have (inaudible at 0:14:02.5).
CLIENT: That's what I've thought. Yeah because it's not just the sex it's so many things. It's the so many freedoms that I'm beginning to feel. I heard a couple of people, friends of ours—Vince and Lucille who are in the band—and they're in love. And it's just funny to watch their relationship sometimes. We were practicing at the table and she burped. Or she burped at one point. And she cursed at another. And Vince got upset at both of them. Cursing was unladylike and the burping was ill-mannered. [0:14:43.2]
And I didn't say anything but it just struck me as so funny. The restrictions that they put on themselves and on each other. And like at this point that's inconceivable to me. The idea of what's ladylike and what's not ladylike. I mean if I'm a crowd, I'll excuse myself and all of that.
But in my own ways now, with certain people—especially people that I love, those things are of course permitted. There is no need to excuse myself. There is no need to hold back cursing. There are just so many thousands of little things, ways that I don't restrict myself anymore. And sometimes when I watch people, and I watch what they do and watch how they act, I'm aware of how different I am. And of how many more freedoms that I have that I've given myself. Sometimes that's frightening.
THERAPIST: What's frightening about it? [0:15:46.9]
CLIENT: That I'm so different. That I can be so unusual. That I can have something that most people don't have. So maybe I'm crazy. Maybe I really don't have it. Or maybe there's something wrong with having it. My parents popped into my mind when I was thinking about this whole thing. And that I don't know if I could ever be involved with someone again sexually or just a woman that I loved who put these restrictions on me. Who demanded of me these things that I now consider inappropriate demands. Like how long my hair should be and how short my pants should be. Whether my clothes should match. Whether I should eat with my fingers or with a knife and fork.
And I was just thinking about all of this. My parents came into my head. And it was my father, more so than my mother, but both of them saying "But you have to compromise somewhere. You have to put up with the bad in order to get the good. You can't have everything you want. Life isn't a bed of roses." [0:16:55.7]
And just all of these things started popping into my head. And then I was saying to myself, "Maybe I'm asking too much." Then I thought of Rosalie. And I said, "Well maybe I should go back with her and put up with all of those other things." Because I do love her. So maybe loving her means that I should put up with this. And I said, "No I can't. I couldn't put up with living with her. Just for the sex alone. I couldn't do that."
Am I very selfish? I don't know. But I could not do it. I could not put up at this point with a woman who is relatively frigid in bed. And from where I've been going lately, you can be active and relatively frigid with me. And I said, "Maybe that's too selfish. Maybe I'm asking too much. And maybe I'll be sorry for that." I don't know.
THERAPIST: It depends on which is most important to you. If the freedom to allow yourself to be yourself is the most important thing then it isn't worth probably sacrificing it and giving it up in order to have somebody you love. If loving her is the most important thing and it isn't that great a sacrifice, isn't perceived as such a great sacrifice to give up certain things, then it would be worth it to you. At this stage, apparently your freedom is more important. [0:18:11.3]
CLIENT: But I guess where I feel wrong is that for many years my freedom has always been the most important. And I have been told by a lot of people that I step on them and that I hurt them when I want to be so free. But who am I? Who do you think you are? You're always thinking of yourself. When are you going to stop thinking of yourself? And lately I've been noticing that I think of myself an awful lot.
Now the more I'm doing it, it's like a learning curve. When they told me that when I began therapy—okay I dealt with it. And I came back down and I leveled off and I was considerate. And now six years later I seem to be up there again. And my freedoms are just building rapidly at this point. Once more. And so it's like I'm reaching another peak. And maybe I'll level off. Maybe I won't. I don't know. But I'm beginning to hear those voices that tell me, "All you ever do is think of yourself." [0:19:18.0]
THERAPIST: All right. But maybe there is somebody else you can relate to for whom thinking of yourself and taking care of yourself will not be incompatible with their needs. They'll be busy taking care of themselves. And sometimes that can work out well for those people. Sometimes there is the occasional conflict that can be negotiated. Sometimes it can't be. But I've seen it work out okay when each person takes care of themselves in a relationship. And respects the right of the other person to do that. And believes that it's good for them both to do that.
CLIENT: I believe it's good. I've become a bit afraid when somebody tells me that I've ignored them or hurt them or something like that. Then I say to myself, "Maybe I shouldn't be so free. Maybe I shouldn't do all these things that I want. Maybe I need to sacrifice." [0:20:15.4]
But I guess I really haven't been. It's funny because lately I've been very considerate of other people. You know it's like I've been in touch with my family. I've called them to find out how they're doing. Because my mother's arm is still not healing properly. But I've been calling to find out about that. Yeah I guess I have been pretty much free but caring.
Frankie and Angela were a bit upset with me because they felt like I wasn't paying enough attention to Daniel. I'm the godfather. And that they had just been feeling distant from me. And I felt pretty terrible about that for a couple of days. And then realized that I hadn't done it deliberately. And that they hadn't called me. [0:21:09.7]
And so I spoke to Frankie yesterday and I just told him, "Look I felt bad for a couple of days but I'm angry. Because you're telling me you're feeling distant from me. You haven't phoned. You can call me. I know my life is very busy but you can call me. Angela can call me if she's not feeling comfortable with me. And she can talk to me rather than waiting three months.
As for the baby, I love the baby very much. But the only times I've seen the baby, the baby has either been sick or it's been at a big party where there have been 25 people competing to hold the baby. I do not enjoy playing with children under those conditions. I don't want to pick up kids just for the sake of holding them. So what I'm asking you is, if you want me to be the godfather, you let me be my kind of godfather with Daniel.
Because I could love him very much if I have the room. But you're having problems with me not being around much you have to come around me. Or you have to call me and tell me you want me to come around you. You haven't done either."
And I felt better after that. I felt like for a couple of minutes I let myself get guilty because I was expecting that I would be hurting someone sooner or later by being selfish. But then I really wasn't hurting anybody. So I caught that in time before it got to me. [0:22:29.1]
THERAPIST: (inaudible) he was able to accept that?
CLIENT: Yeah he was. He was. I don't know if Angela is. But it almost doesn't matter because I haven't done anything that I would consider inconsiderate. I haven't felt distant from her. It appears that she's been feeling distant from me for a couple of months. But she hasn't told me. So how am I to know? I can't. So she has to deal with that. Not me. So I feel comfortable with it. Again I feel like I've been okay.
THERAPIST: I guess I want to say something about flexibility too since you've often been at one extreme or the other. Like you're afraid that if you're taking care of yourself that you will become extremely inconsiderate or if you can be the old considerate person that you can't take care of yourself. [0:23:26.6]
And I see it as being flexible. Like taking care of yourself and occasionally if you find that inadvertently you've been inconsiderate or people are experiencing it that way, yes they can get in touch with you. Or you can modify your behavior. And do a little something to show consideration for them. Without turning back to being the old way or being considerate at the expense of taking care of yourself.
CLIENT: Uh-huh. I feel like I've been able to do that pretty much. Well I guess that this time around one of the things that I've been aware of?I've been more aware of my process. And that I can be selfish and that a part of that always winds up that I feel like I've hurt somebody and all of that. Then I feel guilty. And this time around I've been more aware of that.
And have been trying to make messages clearer to people that I care about. That I do care about you. That true, a few months ago I was falling apart and was begging for help from everybody, but now I don't feel that weak anymore. So don't think that my being stronger is me not needing you or caring about you.
See I'm aware that these things can happen. But I don't intend to be weak so that people can still enjoy mothering me. I'm not going to do that. I will let them know that I love them. [0:24:50.6]
THERAPIST: I think that helps. Because sometimes people interpret you're not contacting them as not being interested and not caring. So if they get that reassurance that you do love them it makes a difference.
CLIENT: Yeah. With Anna I've pretty much been able to tell her when I need my time. And see her when I want to. So that's no problem. I've even seen Rosalie a couple of times and enjoyed her company. Overall I'm just panicking because I don't know what I want to do with my life. Whether I want music or social work or (inaudible at 0:25:28.3). Or both.
THERAPIST: And why are you panicking about that?
CLIENT: I have a feeling that making a wrong decision could just destroy me. That going into music could make me lose everything I have. It could make me lose Anna. It could make me lose Rosalie. It could make me lose my job. My friends. But not going into music I might be missing out on the opportunity of a lifetime.
I don't have time for anything else. Or much of anything else. In the near future maybe I'd be able to do that part time so I'd have more time for other things. Just this sort of juggling in my mind as to consequences and what can happen. And weighing things. Whether it's worth it or not. [0:26:31.0]
THERAPIST: Okay. It's important to weigh all these things. But do you have use fear in order to do it? Couldn't you do it without being afraid?
CLIENT: Mmm. I don't know.
THERAPIST: We talked about this last week too. And I remember identifying with that that when I have important decisions to make or have to change a track I've been on that I've used unhappiness to do that. And when I became aware of it I realized I didn't have to. I didn't have to get upset and unhappy in order to reevaluate or to make a decision.
CLIENT: Mm-hmm.
THERAPIST: It's important to make a decision. It's important to reevaluate. Okay?
CLIENT: Mmm. Yeah I don't know if I'm ready to make a decision with all that much happiness. Maybe I can begin to chop off some of the unhappiness. [0:27:36.3]
THERAPIST: Yeah. Okay.
CLIENT: Very, very slowly.
THERAPIST: It sounds like part of the problem is you're afraid that if you make a decision in one direction it may be a disaster. This is what I heard. Disaster. Is that the word you used?
CLIENT: Mmm.
THERAPIST: Is that so? That it could be a disaster? If you went to music—you mean if it didn't work out or if you decided you didn't like you couldn't get back into social work?
CLIENT: No it couldn't be a disaster like that. The disaster could be going into music and saying goodbye to other things. Whether I really want to do that. How torn I'd be. How totally destroyed I'd be.
THERAPIST: Going into music means traveling around the world? Is that why it would mean saying goodbye? [0:28:35.8]
CLIENT: Maybe. Well it would mean traveling certainly.
THERAPIST: A lot?
CLIENT: Yeah. Yeah. It's a very frightening thought for me.
THERAPIST: What's frightening about it?
CLIENT: Being away from all my security. I mean I went away for a week to Boy Scout Camp. I couldn't handle the second week. Just I had to come home crying. And I'm still very much like that. The thought of leaving all of the things that I am attached to or a part of is just a frightening to death thought. It's a horrifying thought. That nobody would be here when I come back.
On the other hand the thought of not going into music could have the same disastrous feeling. Sitting home knowing that I've been too afraid to take this chance and that I'm really unhappy with what I'm doing. I've kind of been hating myself for all of that. And then saying that I've let the band down. All of that business. I feel like either way I've?[0:29:59.9]
THERAPIST: You're going to lose either way.
CLIENT: Yeah. I've got something heavy coming up in the near future one way or the other. But then there's the maybe not. Maybe there is the that I'll flow into one decision or the other. I think about that. That's how I usually wind up doing things anyway. But I usually wind up flowing into them. And I realized that being so God damn nervous was a waste of time. Because I never had to make the big decision to begin with.
Yeah like the business with Anna and Rosalie. That if I loved Anna, I couldn't love Rosalie. And all that would do. And so far that hasn't caused me any problems. The only problem it's caused me is worrying about it. That I've enjoyed Anna. And lately I've enjoyed Rosalie. It's a shame I had to waste so much time a month ago. Being upset about that. [0:31:11.4]
So usually I don't wind up with these life/death decisions. The only life/death decisions I have are played out in fantasy. And that's before any real decision has to be taking place. I wish I could believe that more. See I wish I could trust myself or have faith in I don't know what. But just to let things go day by day. I do fine when I work that way.
THERAPIST: Okay I wonder if some of the fears that get in the way like if you did decide on music and you had to travel, the fear of being away from home and leaving your security behind?
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST:—if that's one of the things that?
CLIENT: It's very frightening.
THERAPIST: Yeah. So if we could resolve that fear that might help.
CLIENT: I don't know how to resolve it. I really don't know how to resolve it.
THERAPIST: Well let's explore the fear more. What was the fear when you went to the Boy Scout Camp? How old were you then? [0:32:11.7]
CLIENT: About eleven. Twelve.
THERAPIST: Were you afraid nobody would be there when you came back?
CLIENT: I just remember missing my family tremendously. Wanting to go home desperately. Not being able to make it with the people that I was with. Feeling under pressure. Yeah that I wouldn't be able to cope in the new situation. Like starting a new class or starting a new school. Or a new job.
THERAPIST: And the fear that you wouldn't be able to cope with a new situation probably handicapped you from coping with it. And at that time you may have had more problems with interpersonal relationships than you have now. [0:33:01.3]
CLIENT: Yeah. I may have had more problems. (Chuckling) Understatement of the year.
THERAPIST: More problems of all kinds. (inaudible at 0:33:08.3)
CLIENT: Yeah because I can go into any situation now. Do at least in the eighties. Eighties to nineties. I know that. And I know I don't have any problems with that. But I know I'm still afraid of it.
THERAPIST: Okay. So what's left to be afraid of now?
CLIENT: The chance that it might not work out.
THERAPIST: In what sense?
CLIENT: What I was thinking of was me being away. On contract. For six months. And at the end of three or two or one deciding I don't want to be here anymore. I can't just run away. I just can't do that.
THERAPIST: So if you don't have the freedom to take care of yourself and to do your own thing in that kind of setting where you're bound by a contract. [0:34:05.3]
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: (break in audio) And you've lived with that?
CLIENT: Yeah it's been no problem. See my fear is not a rational one. I know I wasn't thinking about it. It reminded me of an old dream I used to have. It's completely irrational but it's just me going around and around and around on this spiral. And never being able to get off. And always screaming for help. And not being able to get off and knowing it's going to happen—not the rest of my life—but for eternity I'm going to be trapped on this thing. That's the fear. Because I can get out of any situation I want to get out of. And not to brag. That's the reality. I can. [0:35:02.6]
It may mean paying back money. It may mean this or that. But I know I can. I know I have the smarts to do that. And I know I have the motivation to do that when things get tough enough. It's not that. It's a magical fear of some kind. I have a dream like fear that the whole world is just going to crush in on me. Or that there is going to be a war and there are going to be bombs dropping. And there would be no way to communicate with my family. Those are the kinds of fears that they are. Like very in my gut. Not in my head at all.
It's always been a horrible fear for me. Even a fantasy of putting myself in World War II. And like so many people were unable to communicate with members of their families for years. Just being taken away from my family and the people that I know and being put in a strange place. That I could kill myself. That I might kill myself. That I might do even worse than that. That I might stay alive and keep longing for these people that I love rather than set up a life of my own. [0:36:12.0]
At what point do I say, "Okay stop looking for them. And start building on your own." Because you can only do one or the other. You can't do both. These have always been terrible fears for me. Never any realities. But terrible fears. I'm afraid of it happening.
THERAPIST: But I'm thinking of a real situation where that could've happened. When Rosalie left. You could've hung around and moped for years. And you haven't. After what, three months? You picked yourself up and you found a new relationship.
CLIENT: See I know I do that. If I look at myself I know that I'm able to function. That I usually wind up doing good things for myself. And it just doesn't make sense to me then when I look at these other things that I'm so afraid. [0:37:07.8]
THERAPIST: Is it that in the past you didn't take good care of yourself? And it's new to you to be doing that? So you don't really trust and have confidence in yourself that under stressful circumstances that you would be able to do that?
CLIENT: Okay. Yeah I guess that's where it is. Because I am always afraid that I won't take care of myself. And lately in 99 of 100 cases I do take care of myself. Before it gets out of hand.
THERAPIST: Pretty good record.
CLIENT: Yeah. I'm afraid of the idea of my—. (Audio break) I was trapped and I couldn't get out and it was so painful. I'm afraid of getting caught in those things. And that's not too long ago. I'm afraid of getting trapped in a painful situation. Not knowing how to get out. And maybe not being so sure that I could get out all of the time. [0:38:20.1]
THERAPIST: Well in a way you were in that with Rosalie. That was a painful situation. You were kind of caught and trapped in it. And you didn't know whether to get out or not. And finally she was the one who left. If she hadn't left you might still be in that situation.
CLIENT: Mm-hmm.
THERAPIST: So I can see you're having that concern that you allow something to go on maybe too long.
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: Maybe that in retrospect wasn't taking good enough care of yourself. But you couldn't know at the time that that was (inaudible at 0:38:49.4). Because you thought maybe that was the way you wanted to take care of yourself by hanging in there and continuing to work on the relationship.
CLIENT: Yes. Uh-huh. Yeah I know. I know. But I have more of a tendency to hold on than to let go. At times. But other times with a lot of women I have more of a tendency to let go. Yes so I guess I am. I'm afraid that I may not be able to take care of myself in that situation. And that I'm not quite sure yet. I don't quite have all that confidence in myself that I'd like to have. [0:39:33.8]
THERAPIST: Well knowing this about yourself, would it help to be aware and alert in situations where it's a matter of taking care of yourself? And each time you do, reminding yourself, "Ah, there. I did take care of myself."
CLIENT: Mmm.
THERAPIST: To build up your confidence and your trust in yourself.
CLIENT: It's funny because it's just that I either feel too guilty that I'm taking too much care of myself or I'm afraid that I'm not taking enough care of myself. And I feel these things simultaneously just about. At the beginning of this session I'm talking about one thing. Talking about feeling too selfish. That all I do is take care of myself. And I'm really not all that sure that I take as good of care of myself as I'd like to. [0:40:29.0]
THERAPIST: And one of the reasons is, I suppose, because you feel guilty doing it.
CLIENT: Yeah maybe I would.
THERAPIST: Like maybe one of the reasons for staying with Rosalie as long as you did was that you would've felt guilty leaving her. That you were sort of taking care of her by staying. Among other things.
CLIENT: Yeah. Well I know that was one of the reasons. Yeah.
THERAPIST: As we talk it sounds like if we didn't have all these guilt feelings that have been inculcated in us by our family and culture and so on, it would be the natural thing for us to take care of ourselves. The instinct of self preservation would make it natural for us to take care of ourselves the best we could in all situations. [0:41:28.9]
CLIENT: Mm-hmm.
THERAPIST: And what stops us is society's expectations. (inaudible at 0:41:35.2)
CLIENT: I know I believe that now. Almost firmly. I don't know if I'll ever believe anything firmly. But I do believe that. I've been using it a lot in doing my own therapy. I'm finding that it has some very interesting, very nice results. I was just telling someone the other day—they were very worried about something. And we just got into talking about if you're with people, especially people that you love and they're down or depressed, generally we all have the feeling that we have to be the same way as them.
And she had said, "At least why not be miserable as long as you're there." And we talked about that and she understood what I was saying. And we got into a more heavy situation where there is almost the possibility that she can get killed if she makes a certain move. Literally. She's leaving her husband and he tends to be very violent. And I found myself saying, "Well you know you're going to do this. We've decided that that's what you're going to do. What's the point in you being upset about that now?" [0:42:43.5]
And I'm saying to myself, "Are you kidding? I'd be a nervous wreck. Where do I get off telling her what's the point in you being upset about that?" But I realized it was true. What is the point? Because she has looked at every conceivable alternative. And she's going to move maybe in another three weeks. What's the point in being upset for the next three weeks?
THERAPIST: It's not going to help her but she does have a sense that it's going to.
CLIENT: And what I said to was—she couldn't understand my asking her that. And I said, "You knew you had to get a tooth pulled. To me it's just a matter of whether you want to do it with Novocain or whether you want to do it without. The same thing is going to happen in three weeks whether you're upset now or whether you're not. If I get a tooth pulled I like it to be as cushioned as possible. If they can put me to sleep, fine."
And there are some people that want the pain I guess. And want to feel every (inaudible at 0:43:29.6) of it. That's not me. But I'm really believing that more. What's the sense in feeling uncomfortable for a minute if you don't have to? Unless of course you want to feel that. Unless I want to feel uncomfortable.
THERAPIST: I think people really want to. It's that they believe it's going to help them. It's going to help them to keep alert. Like with her for instance. She may have a belief that it will help her be more on top of the situation.
CLIENT: Yeah. (Audio ends at 0:43:56.9)
END TRANSCRIPT
