TRANSCRIPT OF AUDIO FILE:
___________________________________________________________________________________
[Note: At times the audio of the counselor is so low it is difficult to understand, and when the patient is whispering, the identity of the speaker is not clear, as the voices are similar when soft.]
BEGIN TRANSCRIPT:
COUNSELOR: I'm going to put you down...
PATIENT: Okay.
COUNSELOR: Okay. So Monday, will that do?
PATIENT: Monday?
COUNSELOR: Next week?
PATIENT: Sure. Yep.
COUNSELOR: I want us to have a goal set [inaudible at 0:00:17.2]...
PATIENT: Yeah.
COUNSELOR: Yeah.
PATIENT: So?
COUNSELOR: So?
PATIENT: I think I can [inaudible at 0:00:25.1]... it.
COUNSELOR: Well, do you feel like talking about it?
PATIENT: I'm still waiting for my apartment, to see whether it's going to come through or not, so that's kind of got my anxieties high. But I explained the situation to you, where I wanted to move into the apartment and I couldn't, like a year and a half ago, because I didn't make enough money and blah, blah, blah, and actually I had one spot on my credit record from like seven years ago, when I first moved to Chicago and I screwed up like a credit card like Banana Republic (ph) but I paid it off a long time ago, so they were like, "We don't want anybody who doesn't have impeccable credit." And...it's like, well, whatever. So then Trey got a lease in his name and I've been living there and paying the rent and everything. So the lease expired and I was going to move out, and the person I was supposed to move in with, it fell through, so I decided I'd like to stay, because by the time I find a new apartment, pay a realtor's fee, pay security, move...for a few hundred dollars less a month if I found a cheaper apartment it would be the same anyway by the time I incurred all those expenses. So...I said, "Trey, can we just renew the lease?" So he called them to see if they could switch it over to my name and they were being really difficult about it, and then finally I guess they agreed they'd...give me an application. So they gave me an application and they brought it back, and...they called me and they said, "Well...we're not going to accept your application." I said, "Why?" They said, "Well...we found something on your credit." I'm like, "What? Let me talk to your supervisor." I said, "What did you find?" They said, "Oh, Banana Republic." I'm like, "Well, that was seven years ago when I first moved to Chicago, it was a lot longer, if you check my credit now, I've since then bought a car, paid it off, now I have very good credit." You know?
COUNSELOR: Yeah.
PATIENT: And I had to like convince them to. She's like, "Well, okay, I'll continue...my search but whatever." So I've yet to find out whether, at that point that was Friday and they were like, "Well, Monday you have to get out of the apartment." Which is today.
COUNSELOR: Oh, boy!
PATIENT: But they're just being really unreasonably difficult, there's like no reason why. I mean, they're just kind of particularly not nice people to begin with.
COUNSELOR: So?
PATIENT: So, I'm stressed out about [overlapping voices at 0:02:39.9]...
COUNSELOR: It's a little stressful for you now?
PATIENT: ...so we'll see. I mean, I guess they have to let me stay another month if they decide I can't stay there, just to...
COUNSELOR: So you're waiting to hear from them?
PATIENT: It's really, but they've been on a move sweep (ph).
COUNSELOR: How are you dealing with it?
PATIENT: Pretty...it's funny because I don't know if it's the Prozac or what, but because this is...this all really kind of started a few months ago when I realized my lease was going to be up and what was I going to do? And blah, blah, blah, and normally, I would have been I think, totally flipping out. I'm handling it. I mean, what am I going to do? If I have to get another apartment, I have to get another apartment, you know? But I think that I usually would tend to be, I'd probably be having panic attacks by now, honestly. (chuckling) Because like this is the type of stuff that really freaks me out...financial things or that's like to me a big responsibility, plus it's a change, which I hate...I hate changes, transitional period, so it's like everything in one ball.
COUNSELOR: Yeah. Yeah. But you feel like you're coping with it pretty well?
PATIENT: Well, it stresses me out but I'm definitely dealing with it better. Then again, I mean, (chuckling) there's the, I should be able to deal with it, it shouldn't be that big a deal at all...it should just be, it shouldn't be a hard thing to handle, dealing with renewing a lease or moving, you know? It doesn't have to be such a traumatic situation, but in my head it is.
COUNSELOR: So are you getting down on yourself because it's a stressful situation for you?
PATIENT: Well, I think that, not down on myself because it's a stressful situation, because I have always been that way and I'm used to my reaction, so I'm not...I accept them. But, for the fact that I'm 32 years old and I should...not be in this position and I should...my credit should be good and it really is, and I feel like I'm just paying for mistakes I've made a long time ago and...I still, I should handle my money better and...it just shouldn't have to be an issue at this point. I should have my life more under control and my money more under control. So, yeah, I'm down on myself about that.
COUNSELOR: You are a little bit?
PATIENT: Yeah. I think I should be. (chuckling)
COUNSELOR: What do you think I think when I hear this stuff, like when I hear this story?
PATIENT: Probably, I would probably think that you would think I don't have my act together and you said you're probably about the same age as me, right? Maybe?
COUNSELOR: Yeah.
PATIENT: Are you younger than I am?
COUNSELOR: No. No.
PATIENT: Okay. (chuckling)
COUNSELOR: Actually I think I'm just a few months older than you are. Yeah.
PATIENT: So I mean, you can compare your life to mine and say..., "Jan's (ph) in a situation. I'm not in the situation and (making some kind of noise) someone shouldn't..." You know what I mean? Especially because you're my age, I guess. I actually didn't think about it that but now that you...
COUNSELOR: Yeah. Yeah.
PATIENT: It's funny because I feel like a little kid when I'm talking to you. Like even though I know you're the same age as me, I think in my mind I make a separation, like I still make the, 'she's the therapist, I'm the patient'...separation. So I think I just, I don't know. [0:06:15.4]
COUNSELOR: Well, why do you think you need do that?
PATIENT: Why?
COUNSELOR: What just happened? You didn't like that question?
PATIENT: No, I don't, I don't under...well, I guess...
COUNSELOR: Did you just feel like, wait a minute?
PATIENT: No, I just feel like it was, again, that's like, "Wait a minute, is that the issue here?"
COUNSELOR: Okay. Okay.
PATIENT: Is it? I mean [overlapping voices at 0:06:47.1]...
COUNSELOR: I don't know...
PATIENT: ...does it matter why I would do that or not? Why I would feel that way? I mean, it's like part of life is, people role-play all the time. I mean, you're my employee, I'm your employer...things like that, student/teacher. So this happens to be patient/therapist. So I don't think that it's really odd that I would feel that way. You know?
COUNSELOR: I think you're right. I mean actually, I'm sort of...something just happened there when I asked that question. It was like...why are you making a big deal out of this?
PATIENT: Right.
COUNSELOR: Was it kind of like that?
PATIENT: Right.
COUNSELOR: It was kind of like...
PATIENT: Like I don't understand.
COUNSELOR: So there was sort of like, why are you asking that question? Do you think there's something wrong with that? Right? Kind of? Did it make you feel kind of like I was...
PATIENT: Well, I just felt like, is that the issue? I mean, is it? Is that an issue?
COUNSELOR: I don't know. I just thought I'd...maybe it is the issue. (patient chuckling) Maybe, I guess, let me think. Let me think. I mean, yeah, I think in some sense...I did see it like maybe as an issue we could explore...like, what...knowing that we're the same age and yet, wanting me to be...someone who is older and maybe wiser, maybe something like that. I mean, I don't know. But there might be some comfort in thinking or in treating me in the way that...where you think of me as being older. Do you know what I'm saying? Or it's just that role? I guess I though it might be worth exploring...your preference to seeing me in that role as sort of the parent or the authority. That's kind of where I was going. But that kind of pissed you off?
PATIENT: I don't know if it pissed me off. It made me uncomfortable. Like I feel very uncomfortable right now. Like starting to get that feeling, like angry feeling back like, wait a minute now. Is this working? What is this? You know, that confusing, where is the sub line and what does it mean? The things we were talking about in the past. But I'm also trying to temper it and go, wait, I'm...keep an open mind to it.
COUNSELOR: Well...
PATIENT: Because maybe that's a defense mechanism. I hope. I don't know. [0:09:05.6]
COUNSELOR: Well, I'd be interested in exploring it...because I learn as much as you do, too...in terms of maybe some of my sort of unconscious motives for asking questions or whatever. I mean, so it's useful I think if we could stay with that uncomfortable feeling, and just what was it that you kind of felt in that interaction that bothered you. Is that something that you'd feel comfortable doing?
PATIENT: Yeah. I guess it's that whole feeling of like, feel like you're opening me up and exploring every inch of my insides...it's really, really, really uncomfortable.
COUNSELOR: Sounds really intrusive?
PATIENT: Yeah. It feels it. But I don't know why, because it's like the questions you ask don't seem to be very relevant to me to anything (chuckling) yet, they do make me uncomfortable.
COUNSELOR: Yeah. Can you tell me a little bit about, 'but they don't seem relevant to you', what does that [overlapping voices at 0:10:24.7]...
PATIENT: Right. Whatever line of conversation...to a conversation run, when this whole thing started, the question you asked me about...
COUNSELOR: Why do you think you see me as this, an authority?
PATIENT: Something like that.
COUNSELOR: Yeah.
PATIENT: But that's not what you asked me. Because that...
COUNSELOR: [Yeah, it was.] (ph) [0:10:45.7]
PATIENT: ...that question to me, all right make sense. I mean, that I would see, I mean, to me it's clear. I mean, it's the same answer that I always have, which is that I've always been looking for someone to take care of me.
COUNSELOR: Yeah.
PATIENT: And that's safer and more comfortable. But that wasn't the question, because I remember specifically whatever you had asked me, I just was like, what does that have to do with anything? That's kind of, I mean, I guess I still just, I still have expectations of you. Like maybe deep down, even though we take steps and we've progressed and we understand each other better, I think, I mean, I guess on some level I still have expectations of, somehow I'm going to get answers from you. You know? So maybe that just felt like a diversion or, I don't know. I don't know. Maybe I have expectations that I don't think I have or that I don't know I have.
COUNSELOR: So I didn't really get it right in a way, is that it? And that was just kind of like...
PATIENT: Well, I just felt like things were going to, (chuckling) over the last couple of sessions things were kind of progressing and going smoothly, and that question took me back a couple of steps. It felt...
COUNSELOR: In what...
PATIENT: ...uncomfortable and it felt like before we got through a lot of stuff, how I used to feel. I don't know why.
COUNSELOR: And that feeling was what? How did it make you feel? I'm not, I'm still not clear, like how it made you, about (ph) your reaction?
PATIENT: Uncomfortable and confused and I guess somewhat angry but, I think it just, it didn't feel like it went along with the flow of what we've been doing. (chuckling) So...
COUNSELOR: Did it feel patronizing to you?
PATIENT: Maybe, I don't remember what the question was now. [overlapping voices at 0:12:34.1]...
COUNSELOR: But there was something about it, yeah, we should look at. (both chuckling) But there was something I know. It just, it felt wrong, it hit you wrongly kind of?
PATIENT: [non verbal, yes]
COUNSELOR: I'm trying to remember what I was feeling. And I think I felt a little hesitant to ask that question. And I think I often feel sort of hesitant as to how to approach you.
PATIENT: Why?
COUNSELOR: Because, sometimes I just don't know how I can help you. I don't know what you need. It's not clear to me what you need.
PATIENT: Maybe I, do you think maybe I don't need anything? I mean...
COUNSELOR: No. I never think that. Do you feel that way sometimes? That you don't need anything from me or?
PATIENT: Sometimes. Like I came in today and I thought, "Okay, what are we going to talk about? Okay, I'm a little uncomfortable about...my apartment situation but that's really it right now." I don't feel like...
COUNSELOR: Yeah...I think that that's actually, that's how I was feeling like...I could tell that...the apartment situation was...stressful for you but you seemed like you were handling it. It wasn't something that you felt was sort of out of control.
PATIENT: I don't feel out of control at all in my life right now.
COUNSELOR: No. No, you don't seem it at all. So I think I was starting feel like, well...what's...
PATIENT: Why is she here? (both chuckling) No, I know you, well, no because I kind of feel the same way.
COUNSELOR: Why is she here? That sounds very kind of...
PATIENT: No, I don't, I don't mean it, I didn't mean it like, why is she, I meant like...
COUNSELOR: No. I always, I think I look at it from a different point of view, I guess because I'm supposed to be doing...the therapist, it's that, what can I do for her? What does she need? You know, what, how can I be helpful to her right now? And just...it's just not always clear, so. You know I do want to keep things smooth because I know that's more comfortable for you. But I think that, I think tension's inherent between us. I think it's just there.
PATIENT: [non verbal, yes]
COUNSELOR: And it's going to come up and we're going to kind of get into it. And I think I'm more and more comfortable with the fact that we might have to get into it. But I'm not sure I'm actually, okay, I'm a little hesitant. [0:15:04.4]
PATIENT: But I don't, see I don't understand that, and that kind of aggravates me because, again, it goes back to why am I here and, I don't think I have a problem with my relationships with people, so why would the issue be exploring tension between us...when if I weren't here I wouldn't even be dealing with that, and I don't on a daily basis deal with my reactions to people. I mean I don't have problems with people usually. I don't think. So I don't understand how that is helpful to me. I mean, if that's what this has turned into that, do we get along and do we communicate and is there a tension between us? And that's the issue that we're going to be focusing on and exploring? I do not understand at all how it helps me.
COUNSELOR: Well, I feel a little stuck, so I guess I start to feel really defensive when you start to question things and...I mean we haven't really, I guess in some sense agreed on what the work is between us.
PATIENT: Right.
COUNSELOR: You know like, and I mean...
PATIENT: And we haven't at all.
COUNSELOR: ...I hear your frustration but...I don't know how valuable it's going to be for me to re-explain to you...explain to you again...what this process is. I don't, I'm not even sure I can. But I just hear, what I'm more focused on I guess is sort of that, feeling kind of defensive right now.
PATIENT: You or me?
COUNSELOR: Me.
PATIENT: But I don't mean it as an attack at all. I just, I mean it honestly and wholeheartedly like, again, usually someone goes into therapy and they say, "Okay, these are the issues that have to be worked on and this is how we're going to do it, I think."
COUNSELOR: Yeah. I mean, I think you're right. I think that this is ambiguous, it's less clear what the issues are, I think that's true.
PATIENT: But is that, I mean, in the work that you're doing, do you think you're figuring out what the issues are? Is that what it's about? Is it about me figuring out what the issues are and is that going to happen through our just talking in general?
COUNSELOR: Well...again, I could give you an answer but I'm just not sure, I'm more curious as to...how you're feeling right now about this?
PATIENT: I'm getting really annoyed right now.
COUNSELOR: Because I don't feel like there's room for me to say something that would be the right answer.
PATIENT: Is that because I have to figure it out myself or is that because...
COUNSELOR: No, it's not because you have to figure it out.
PATIENT: ...you're just not sure? [0:18:04.3]
COUNSELOR: No. I feel like, I'm feeling sensitive. I'm feeling like you're just kind of saying, "Look, I don't get this. What is this?" And I'm having a hard time responding to that, to like, I'm feeling like even if I gave you some explanation as to how this process is supposed to work and what our relationship is supposed to do, it wouldn't be good enough.
PATIENT: That's not really fair though, for you to say that, because that's your assumption that I wouldn't accept what you're going to say.
COUNSELOR: I am making that assumption, that's true, I am.
PATIENT: Well, why would you do that? Am I the type of person that doesn't listen to reason or...doesn't, or you just...
COUNSELOR: Well, I guess I've often felt that I've tried to explain things before and it just isn't enough. It's like, "But why? But why? I don't get it."
PATIENT: Doesn't sink in. (chuckling)
COUNSELOR: And then I just, I end up feeling kind of frustrated and...Probably start to act out a little bit. And when sometimes when I've just, I've had the advantage of seeing the tapes...from my supervision and, I often see myself getting frustrated, and you're frustrated and you're saying, "I don't get it, why, why?" And then I just start to be very...kind of maybe, I don't know. I've seen myself act out in the situation then, and I think we get kind of locked into that. So I think it does happen between us. I mean, there's some dynamic between us that I think is worth exploring but it's happening right now. You know, you want an explanation from me about this process, how this works. And I'm feeling really, like whatever I say isn't going to be enough for you. [silence from 0:19:53.2 to 0:20:12.4] Could you maybe tell me what's going on?
PATIENT: It makes me feel like giving up. I mean, I don't know what to say.
COUNSELOR: Right now you feel like giving up?
PATIENT: [non verbal, yes]
COUNSELOR: What is it that you're giving up on?
PATIENT: Trying to get something out of this. [silence from 0:20:33.6 to 0:20:50.9]
COUNSELOR: What's the smile?
PATIENT: Because I've felt this with Cole before. I mean, it's so funny, (chuckling) because it's like every time I'm ready to say, "Forget it!" You know, something suddenly comes to mind and I realize, I've felt this way with Cole before too, where I feel like, how many times can I hit my head against a wall trying to get something I need and I'm not getting it, so I just want to throw my hands up and give up and walk away. But I don't.
COUNSELOR: No, you don't. [silence from 0:21:17.2 to 0:21:26.3]
PATIENT: So maybe my approach is wrong. I mean, that's what it leads me to. Like maybe I am trying to get something that I shouldn't need or I shouldn't...kind of like with Cole. When things finally settled down and I realized these things that he's refusing to give me, but I'm like, "I need this and why can't he give me this?" I shouldn't need. I mean...or I realize it makes me a better person. I know I'm being very vague right now but I'm understanding (chuckling) what I'm saying as I'm thinking it. I mean, it's coming together a little bit, it's like, I guess, is it my stubbornness and my refusal to...is it my narrow mindedness, that I'm like so focused on what I think I need to get from you, that maybe it, you know?
COUNSELOR: Maybe somehow.
PATIENT: Maybe I... [silence from 0:22:29.5 to 0:22:42.8] Sometimes if that whole idea just crumbles and falls apart and I can start over with a...more open mind...maybe I'll find some new insight or something. I don't know. Its kind of making sense (chuckling) to me but it's not. Do you, are you understanding anything I'm saying?
COUNSELOR: I'll tell you what I'm in touch with, and don't, I'm not quite sure but why, I feel very sad. I feel like you just kind of took this experience that we were getting (chuckling) into and just kind of took it aside and just started to try to figure it out for yourself. Like...how you, and it just struck me as kind of sad.
PATIENT: Why?
COUNSELOR: I just, I guess I kind of...I guess my experience is kind of like, you realize that you couldn't, you realized you couldn't get what you wanted from me and you just kind of answered what you figure out, I mean, some way of comforting yourself or understanding this.
PATIENT: (chuckling) Yeah.
COUNSELOR: How does that, well, what's that like when I say that? How does that strike you? [0:24:02.3]
PATIENT: Now I feel sad and I feel like pathetic. (chuckling) I feel that I can. (chuckling)
COUNSELOR: Do you feel like I pity you or I think of you better? [silence from 0:24:19.8 to 0:24:29.8]
PATIENT: No, I don't feel like you feel that way. I feel that way about myself.
COUNSELOR: Oh.
PATIENT: That what you said to me made me feel that way though. I mean, it made me feel like... [silence from 0:24:37.5 to 0:24:58.2] See this whole thing scares me because it makes me question the validity of my feelings or the way I'm treating them and that takes me back then to Cole. Okay, suddenly I think everything's okay because I've learned how to see things or... [silence from 0:25:12.5 to 0:25:23.9] Now I'm wondering if I'm just lying to myself. I don't know and I'm getting like totally confused.
COUNSELOR: Yeah. [silence from 0:25:30.3 to 0:26:00.9]
PATIENT: And often I do leave here just feeling lousy... (chuckling) sad. I feel like I'm going to leave here feeling that way again today. [silence from 0:26:09.0 to 0:26:34.1]
COUNSELOR: Is it like any certainties are suddenly ripped? I mean... [overlapping voices at 0:26:38.1]...
PATIENT: Yeah, and I'm not sure what to believe anymore. Am I, am I saying things or making myself feel certain ways because I think that's the way I'm supposed to feel or that's the way other people are...think I'm supposed to feel or am I...being genuine or am I lying to myself? Am I...lying to, I don't know. I'm just so confused right now. (chuckling) And then that makes me question my relationship. What do I really feel about it? I feel genuinely some very good things and I genuinely feel some very bad things. But I've tended to take the approach in that by saying...feeling bad can be productive and good because you can learn things about yourself, which I believe but I hope I'm not just fooling myself and lying to myself. I don't know. And that's a very uncomfortable feeling, not knowing to trust what your feelings are.
COUNSELOR: Not willing to trust the way you've always seen things or the way you understand things? Yeah.
PATIENT: It's like losing yourself, you know? And it's so complex obviously, because you spend your whole life building it up (chuckling) that way and then...
COUNSELOR: Yeah. [silence from 0:28:13.8 to 0:28:29.0] I do know. I've been in that chair before.
PATIENT: Yeah. I feel completely exposed. I feel like I just want to crawl into a hole (chuckling) and go to sleep. I really do right now. I just want to go get under the covers and hide. [silence from 0:28:44.4 to 0:28:58.0] I don't know. [silence from 0:28:59.6 to 0:29:15.0]
PATIENT: And I wish I could say something to make you feel better.
COUNSELOR: But I'm not looking for anything right now, I'm not. [silence from 0:29:21.9 to 0:30:20.3]
PATIENT: It's so weird because you know how sometimes I feel like I need all these things and I need all...people and I need materialistic things around me and...to feel safe I need my apartment and I need all my things and my possessions? But right now I just feel like I don't need anything and I don't, I just want to be alone...
COUNSELOR: Right.
PATIENT: ...by myself without anything and without anybody, really. Not just you but like, not Cole, not work, not anything. I just want to be alone and I could care less about anything. Because I was thinking, "Oh, this is so..." And I thought of my apartment and then, "You know what? Who cares." You know? So when you get to the bottom of it, nothing else matters.
COUNSELOR: So what does matter?
PATIENT: Me. I mean... [silence from 0:31:10.6 to 0:31:26.7]
COUNSELOR: You just think you can take care of yourself? [silence from 0:31:27.7 to 0:31:33.7] "No, I don't think. Like everyone else has just sort of been a disappointment." (chuckling) [silence from 0:31:41.7 to 0:31:56.8]
PATIENT: You see with everything stripped away and just the core there, I feel fine and I feel safe, like deep down. I really do. Then all this layer of crap is built up on top of it. I don't know...like when I leave this room and I go back into the real world and I go...start dealing with everything else.
COUNSELOR: "And it bugs me." You're just not sure?
PATIENT: No, I just, I just, I just feel like through our conversation I just totally got to the center of myself. And at the center I'm really okay and I really feel like, "Okay, it's just me and that's okay, and...Nothing else really matters." But I can think that clearly now, but as soon as everything else starts coming back into my mind, suddenly it's scary again or...I mean, I guess I have to be able to hold onto that feeling like, "Yeah, you're going to be okay, and that nothing else in the world matters, nothing...how much money you have doesn't matter. Where you live doesn't matter." You know?
COUNSELOR: Yeah.
PATIENT: As long as you're okay, me. But it's hard to keep that feeling. It's hard to keep sight of that, so I know that. I guess what I have to work on is being able to hold onto that feeling and not let all these other external factors, shake it up. [0:33:33.9]
COUNSELOR: Would you be able to me more about that feeling? What that feeling's like?
PATIENT: It's a very, it's a very, not lonely but feeling but a feeling of being completely alone. But it's not scary, it's, I feel like I'm, like at that point where it just hit me, I just felt like I was totally, inside myself and okay. Just calm and, there's no, noise. It's just okay. I thought, "This is what it is. Here I am. So I have nothing else. So I have...so what?" It...
COUNSELOR: Yes. [silence from 0:34:25.6 to 0:34:41.3]
PATIENT: But it's almost like everything else has to be going, you know?
COUNSELOR: You have to be totally alone to keep it around...
PATIENT: [non verbal, yes]
COUNSELOR: ...your feelings? Because you go out and you get phone calls you have to deal with and then you lose it? [silence from 0:34:58.6 to 0:35:21.5]
PATIENT: I'm just trying to focus in on that feeling, but, [silence from 0:35:24.1 to 0:35:30.6] it's kind of, not slipping away but, you know... [silence from 0:35:33.8 to 0:35:45.9] Now I'm thinking. (chuckling) Now I'm thinking, "Well, I wonder if I started meditating or took up yoga, whether I could just like, learn how to just get in touch with that centered, balanced feeling more easily and focus on it."
COUNSELOR: [non verbal, yes] [silence from 0:36:00.9 to 0:36:07.7] There's a comfort in that feeling.
PATIENT: [non verbal, yes] [silence from 0:36:09.4 to 0:36:21.6] This is, it's something I've always felt, that you just kind of lose sight of it. I mean, it's like I'm, I've really have always thought, "I will be okay. I'm okay with myself. I'm okay by myself. I am." But I just have all this anxiety and all these fears and all these dependency issues, and...I would lose sight of that, but I've always, for the most part, known, that I'm okay with myself. [silence from 0:36:43.7 to 0:36:53.9] But all my life, all I do is try to...I know that deep down but I'm always looking to...be with this person to take care of me and buy this to make me feel better and buy this to make...other people think I'm, you know? I don't know.
COUNSELOR: Yeah.
PATIENT: I mean, part of it is just society I guess...and its trappings. [silence from 0:37:15.6 to 0:37:28.9] I just feel like being completely alone right now. I mean, I feel like not even going to work. I feel like going to my apartment and just being alone.
COUNSELOR: Completely alone. So it's a feeling that you can enjoy or it's just a comfort for you? [silence from 0:37:47.1 to 0:37:58.5] Is it the same?
PATIENT: A little bit of both. I mean, when I felt, when I said that to you, it felt, good. But the more I'm thinking about it and talking about everything, now it feels like, comfort, too. But I, but a little bit of both, really.
COUNSELOR: Yeah.
PATIENT: Like comfort but not, I was going to say, but not, fear, of like I'm going to hide. Just like I don't, like I want to think about everything kind of.
COUNSELOR: Yes.
PATIENT: Without having any interference. Because I know once I go through myself back into the world and into my work and...it's going to slip away.
COUNSELOR: I get the feeling every time I say something it slips away from me [overlapping voices at 0:39:00.0]...
PATIENT: Yeah. I mean... [silence from 0:39:00.9 to 0:39:23.5] If I just really want time alone to think...for that. [silence from 0:39:28.9 to 0:39:39.4] But at the same time, like it's...
COUNSELOR: (whispering) I know I'm doing this.
PATIENT: ...because they called me now and said..., "You've got, you can't live in this apartment, you have to move out." Right now, the way I feel right now, maybe I'm feeling it would be like, "Fine. Okay." I still may call and find out that it's no big deal. [silence from 0:39:52.4 to 0:40:02.5]
COUNSELOR: What about your, is everybody rating (ph) with you?
PATIENT: It feels like, now I'm starting to question myself, "Well am I just turning everything off because it's easier than..." You know? It's just like, "Fine, don't let anything bother you. Just take care of yourself. Just don't let anything..." That's, it's not a bad thing I don't think, necessarily. [silence from 0:40:20.5 to 0:40:27.5] (whispering) It's like it's really funny, not funny but, it's like when I got raped, I mean, the same thing happened. It's like, "Okay, Kathy, here's reality slapping you in the face." But I dealt with it really, really well, just this kind of the feeling I had. It was like, "All right, all the other bullshit aside, all the other noise and feelings aside, this is the bottom line." You know, and then it was, "Okay, you were victimized. You didn't do..." I mean, really! Very rational, not, not pretending, not anything, but, "You're going to be fine and you're, this is what you're going to do to be okay and you're going to...take our test. You're not, nothing; you're not going to gain anything by running away. You can move out of your apartment. You're going to do what you have to do and you go on." Because it, I mean, it was really that straightforward and that's kind of the same feeling I'm having right now. It's like, "Okay." You know, "Just deal with it." And it's kind of, kind of numbness but it's reality. I mean, and that served me very well. I mean, maybe that's something, I mean, like I said that's, that's how I know part of me is very strong if I have to be. If I have to be strong, I can be, and not need anybody and okay by myself. I mean, when I was raped, my parents were out of the country and I was in Connecticut in school, and they said, "Oh, we'll come, we'll come." I was like, "No, don't." And I really meant it. [0:42:07.9] I didn't need them to come help me. There was nothing they could do. I mean, nothing, they...it's really funny, because when you would think I would need someone most, I think I need someone all the time, and when you think I would need someone most and when my parents thought, "Oh, she needs us, we'll go." I didn't. I was absolutely fine. And I'm, that's not fooling myself in any way, I know. It's the truth. I mean, it's, I was absolutely okay by myself and I knew what I had to do and I took care of myself. [silence from 0:42:38.4 to 0:42:45.8] And I'm proud of that. I mean, I didn't do it to be proud of myself but, it's a part of myself I really like, because I know...
COUNSELOR: Through experience.
PATIENT: Yeah. [silence from 0:42:54.9 to 0:43:04.7] So that's kind of the way I feel right now. [silence from 0:43:06.7 to 0:43:13.7] (sighing) Maybe just getting in touch with, this is my reality and I have to deal with it, and no more running and hiding and trying to get other people, you know?
COUNSELOR: Yeah, I do know what you're talking about.
PATIENT: Like in the past it's only come out when it's had to, you know? I've found the strength when I really needed it.
COUNSELOR: [non verbal, yes]
PATIENT: But maybe there's a way to access that strength, all the time!
COUNSELOR: I feel very weird wanting to give you the strength...and to, I mean, or to allow you the strength. But it instantly (ph), it means that I need to keep quiet and give it to you.
PATIENT: Yeah, I know. I mean, I'm not expecting you to say anything right now.
COUNSELOR: [non verbal, yes]
PATIENT: I'm really not.
COUNSELOR: But you wouldn't believe how much I want to say to you [overlapping laughter by patient at 0:44:15.3]...
PATIENT: See, (both chuckling) when I need you to, you don't, and when I don't need you to, you want to. (both laughing) Isn't that just great. (both chuckling) Oh, my goodness. I am right (ph). So happy (ph)...I guess it's just a matter of figuring out how to feel that way all the time or...temperate, more balanced, not totally crazed or totally stable but somewhere in the middle. And that, my whole life, has been my problem, like I can't just be balanced. It's always up/down, up/down, you know?
COUNSELOR: Because you know you have the strength. [overlapping voices at 0:44:57.3]
PATIENT: Yeah, I do. I mean, I forget, obviously. I think I don't...but just...getting in touch with those feelings and it brought it up and I remembered it strongly. Like I felt that way. I felt, oh, yeah, I am. It makes me feel better. It really does. That's a tangible feeling, that I feel like I can kind of hold on. Like that's something that I feel like won't go away when I walk out of this room. It's like I can really, I mean, I've accessed it before, so I can recall it more easily than that other inside feeling I was telling you about. Where I just like, "Okay, I feel this way, it's going to go away." I mean, this is something, it's easier for me to bring up when I think about it, you know?
COUNSELOR: [non verbal, yes] [silence from 0:46:00.5 to 0:46:10.4] We're out of time.
PATIENT: Okay. [0:46:21.6]
END TRANSCRIPT
