<font size="4"><b>The Operators Leave</b></font>

The Operators left me at the door of the analyst's office just as
they had on my prior visits.


Dr. Donner was standing in the middle of his office waiting
for me. Uneasiness hung around the room like a thick mist. He's
been walking up and down, I thought, spraying worry around.
The room is filled with worry.


He smiled and motioned me to the couch. I sat and waited for
him to explain about the worry.


"I've been discussing your case with an associate." He waved
an arm vaguely and looked away at one of the walls, and the fixed,
amiable expression on his face collapsed. His face suddenly looked
worn and tired, and somewhat fearful. Something has him scared,
I thought, and leaned forward to study his face.


"Schizophrenia rarely clears up after this length of time without
shock therapy." He walked to his desk and looked at a little
notebook that lay open. "You're sure of the date when it started?"


Yes, I was quite sure.


"It's been six months." He brooded at the wall. "I don't like
shock treatment. It isn't effective in most cases, and sometimes the
results areare not desirable." The fear on his face was quite clear
now.


Then I realized why I was studying his face so closely. Hinton
was tuned in on my mind and was studying the analyst's face
through my eyes.


"I'm afraid it will have to be a hospital." The doctor seemed
to remember something. He stopped brooding at the wall and
turned around and looked at me carefully. "I was really hoping

[p. <i>12</i>]

Plunge right in, the Operators had taught me. Plunge right in
and tackle it, whatever it is. "When do I go?" I asked.


Dr. Donner sighed. Then he turned a page of his notebook
and asked me for the names and addresses of close relatives. Yes,
they all were thousands of miles away. No, I didn't know anybody
at all in this city. He wrote carefully in his notebook. I was
to come back to his office the next day at the same time and he
would come with me to the hospital.


I left and waited outside the building. I waited a full five minutes
but neither Hinton nor Hazel came. There hadn't been much
point in telling Dr. Donner that Hinton and Hazel would really
make the decision about my going to the hospital. They had been
arguing all night about how my head should be repaired. Their
voices had still been snapping at each other when I had fallen
asleep.


Hazel wanted me to get my head repaired but she recomended
only one method: covering my head with stone. Stone,
she said, would prevent Operators from tuning in on my mind.
Hinton was opposed to stone.


"What's wrong with stone," Hazel had asked him. "A good
thick coat of stone will mean safety. The latticework will grow in
fine and there won't be any danger that some busybody Operator
will fiddle around with the latticework while it is growing in."


"That's what I'm talking about," Hinton had shot back at her.
"I want to get at the latticework when it's growing in. I want to
make certain that it grows in right. No stone. It's got to be board
and peephole."


Personally, I was in favor of stone. I knew what latticework
was. It was the Operators' term for habit patterns. My habit patterns
had been scalloped out and they had to grow back again.
And I didn't want a screwball like Hinton supervising the growth
of my habit patterns.

[p. <i>13</i>]

I looked at my wrist watch. They always had picked me up as
soon as I left the doctor's office. I went back to the hotel, opened
the door to my room and listened. Nothing. I went in and sat
down and waited. Finally, I went to bed. As soon as I awoke and
saw the clock, I knew they weren't around. The Operators never
allowed me to sleep more than six hours. I had slept fifteen hours.


Dr. Donner was in his office looking much the same as he had
the day before. He doesn't know, I thought. His Operator may
know but he doesn't know. "They're gone," I told him. "The
voices. They went away and they didn't come back."


The doctor's mouth sagged and then snapped suddenly and
stretched into a wide smile. He took a deep breath and then smiled
again and asked me to sit down and to tell him all about it. His
head nodded happily as I talked.


"Will they be back?" I asked.


He threw a knife-sharp look at me as if he thought I might
be trying to warn him of something. Then he stepped in and took
charge. He hadn't been in charge until then. He just had been sitting
around the same way I had been, waiting to see what the Operators
would do. He stood up very tall and looked very confident.


"No. No. They won't be back. You won't have to go to a hospital.
We won't have to use shock therapy. You're going to be all
right." He threw another sharp look at me to see if I were observing
how confident he was. He went back to his desk and shoved
papers around and looked as if he were decidedly in charge of
everything.


"No hospital," he said very confidently.


No stone, I thought, no stone.


"We're going to use psychoanalysis," Dr. Donner said.


The board and peephole, I thought, and I realized that Hinton
had won.


Dr. Donner surprised me. I had always imagined that psychoanalysts
presented a calm, serene faade to their patients, a bulwark

[p. <i>14</i>]

"Did you read fantasy fiction?" Dr. Donner asked. "The Operators
sound like characters created by a writer of fantasies."


My memories of the Operators were sharp as icicles but searching
through the past of sanity was like picking up rocks, every effort
devastating. I said, finally, "I used to read <i>Time</i>. I tried to read
the <i>Evening Times</i> every night but I didn't always have the time. I
didn't have the time, even, to always read <i>Time</i>." The repetition of
the word delighted me. I wanted more of it. "You might say," I
added, "that I didn't have the time to take advantage of the time."


He tried again. "You exercised remarkable self-control, traveling
around the country the way you did for six monthsconsidering
the condition you were in."


I stifled the impulse to tell him that his statement was absurd.
I hadn't been in control. I had been controlled. I said, because I
wondered if he had doubts about it, "I want you to understand that
all the flukey-lukcy has stopped. I'm perfectly all right now." Except
that my head was so dry and so empty.


"You've gotten rid of major symptoms. You realize that you
had schizophrenic hallucinations and that the Operators did not
exist. By the way, why do you refer to your delusions as flukey-lukey?"


I stared blankly. Why did I?


"Think about it a moment," he said irritably. "Don't say there
is nothing going on in your mind. You say that very often. But
there is always mental action going on somewhere in the mind."


I tried to think but the effort hurt and I rested. A gentle wave
broke on the dry beach of my mind: my mind is resting because it

[p. <i>15</i>]

The analyst looked at his clock, took out his notebook, scheduled
me for another appointment, and waited while I laboriously
copied the time and date on a piece of paper.


I went directly to the park where I was now spending most of
my time. The park was large and peaceful. In its center was a lake
on whose waters ducks, gulls, mud fowl and one large swan went
about their daily routine of living. I had always liked birds but
had never found much time to watch them. Time was all about
me now.


The swan glided across the lake and on its back was a long,
black rod. The woman sitting on the bench beside me leaned forward.
"Will you look at that swan," she said. "There's some kind
of stick on its back."


I looked carefully at the swan. Another wave broke on the
sand. I absorbed it and translated it. "It's his leg," I said. "Maybe
it's sore and the water is irritating it, or else the swan is just resting
it."


She peered over the water. "Oh, yes, I see now," she said.


I was delighted with the waves. They were soft and gentle and
they brought useful information into the dry empty cavern of my
head. I should never have known about the long black stick being
a swan's leg. I had never seen a swan before. I walked to the lake
for a closer look.


The swan's leg still looked like a black stick. I was a bit dubious
about its being his leg, but I trusted the waves. The waves were
far more clever than the dry beach.


I watched the birds for hours. They help keep the Operators
away, I thought. A wave cascaded gently on the beach: I must remember,
not flukey-lukey, but schizophrenia; not Operators, but
my unconscious mind; everything the Operators had said to me,

[p. <i>16</i>]
