TRANSCRIPT OF AUDIO FILE:
______________________________________________________________________________
BEGIN TRANSCRIPT:
THERAPIST: Hello?
CLIENT: Hello. Didn't sound like you.
THERAPIST: Oh.
CLIENT: So Jess dropped her backup hard drive. And you know, she scans everything, everybody's always like "Well why don't you scan this stuff, why don't you can this stuff." And it's going to cost her $2700 to extract the information from this broken hard drive. 
THERAPIST: Yeah, I've heard they're really good.
CLIENT: Yeah. Too good. So which means I can't really ask her for money because she has none. I don't know, maybe her parents are going to help her out, but (pause) I got to—I don't have as much critical data to back up. I have stuff that'd be nice to have, but (pause) and I have some old backups. I haven't done it in like six months. I need to... [00:01:12]
But my whole world's been turned upside down. I started doing work on the apartment. And I didn't realize this, but there's like a small room and a big room. The small room is the room they're taking. So they wanted to get in and do some work, so I started moving all the stuff from the small room to the big room. But they needed everything from the big room out of the big room because they're going to be moving the door, the hallway up. Because I'm keeping the big room. So they want my hallway to go up to the big room. So they're doing work on the big room first. So I had to go and move everything out of the big room, and I just had to find every nook and cranny. And my office is just jammed with stuff, furniture. [00:02:01]
But I'm going to save, during construction he's only charging me a grand in rent. And then when construction's done, it'll drop down to $1214, so...
THERAPIST: Right. Because you're losing space.
CLIENT: Yeah. So that's money that's going to go right over to you, so. (pause) You're not allowed to comment on that.
THERAPIST: What do you mean?
CLIENT: Well, that's personal. You're business. (pause)
THERAPIST: What am I not allowed to comment on?
CLIENT: I don't know.
THERAPIST: You mean like I'm not allowed to jump up and down and go "yay!" or something like that?
CLIENT: Yeah, you've got to be careful what you say.
THERAPIST: Oh. In that (pause) like we kind of inherently have a conflict of interest around money? [00:03:00]
CLIENT: I wouldn't call it a conflict of interest. I mean, anybody would have a conflict of interest if it's around, you know, money was the...
THERAPIST: Sure.
CLIENT: But (pause) you know, finances being one of my issues (pause) I find it humorous that I found this money and that (pause) So I made a joke that it's going back to you.
THERAPIST: I see. Are you—I mean, because the way I remember us having left it, it was kind of up in the air. Are you telling me that you're going to pay me?
CLIENT: I don't know.
THERAPIST: Oh, okay. You're just kidding around. I don't know.
CLIENT: I don't know. I mean, if you bill me I'll try and pay you. That's how it works, right? (pause)
THERAPIST: Yeah. That is how it works. But it isn't really. I mean, in that... [00:04:18]
CLIENT: It's going to get wiped out the next time I clear bankruptcy anyways. (pause) Being how I saved all this money—not all this money, but I had some, finally put money away, and now I'm like spending it all on Jess. And I don't know when or how much of that settlement I'm going to get, which will make a huge difference no matter how little it is. But the timing of it is somewhat critical, you know. He told me I'd have it before Thanksgiving, but I don't know if that's going to happen. [00:05:04]
THERAPIST: I'm happy to bill you starting in January, but you know, I'm also happy to talk about it if you think you're...
CLIENT: I could do chores around your house.
THERAPIST: (laughs) No. That wouldn't—(laughs)
CLIENT: You know, I was thinking that doing these titles is like a second job. Like if I had a job like at Starbucks. Because it's kind of like work that is not really my pay grade. I spend a lot more time on it for less money. And while I don't get any benefits or stock options or anything like that, it's a couple hundred dollars every month. So now I don't have to get a second job at Pete's. So if I can get rid of my first job, I can go work at Pete's. If you came in, I'd give you free coffee. (pause) Maybe a scone. [00:06:23]
(pause) So I've got a deal with this construction—I mean, I knew it was coming up. I knew it was going to be inconvenient. But (pause) yeah, I cleared all the little stuff out and moved one of the bookcases and TV and called my landlord up to move two last things, and she's like "Oh, you're supposed to be moving everything into this room." [00:07:01]
THERAPIST: So are you sleeping in the small room until they're done in the big room?
CLIENT: No, I've got a bedroom. So I've got like a bed with a little office along the—yeah.
THERAPIST: I see.
CLIENT: And the question now is what do I do with Ian. The room, the office was where I was going to come and put down a futon mattress for him, a futon.
THERAPIST: But now you've got too much stuff in there.
CLIENT: But I've got all that crap in there now. So I guess he could just sleep in my bed, for the time being. But even when I get the big room back, that's his room. So I can't really watch TV and have him sleep in that room.
THERAPIST: How long is this work going to take?
CLIENT: I don't know. I mean, they're doing it themselves. So (pause) I imagine the work that they need to do to get me into the big room is not that much. They just need to move a door, make a door. [00:08:08]
And so (pause) but I still think there's going to be dust and (pause) I don't know what they consider construction. Whether working on the little room is going to give me a thousand dollar rent or I don't know. (pause) But I lose a room but I save some money. Now I've got to figure out what to do with Ian. What do I do if Lucille ever starts sleeping over. (pause)
We went to the zoo on Saturday. They just want to play at the playground. They don't care about the animals. It's a nice playground. They redid it. I don't know if you've been to the Park Zoo recently. This old crappy playground, now it's all this nice new elements and stuff. That's all the kids—you know, you walk around the zoo and you don't see anyone. You go over to the playground and it's just packed. So. [00:09:29]
But if you have a zoo membership, you know, and you live near there. You know, Lucille likes to see the gorillas, and she sees some of the animals. So, like they've got the baby gorilla, so.... Ian, I think he just wants to play on the playground. He's seen all the animals. [00:10:00]
(pause) Yesterday I barely left the apartment. I did work. I've been trying to catch up on these titles, so I've been trying to crank them out. Been doing them at night and early in the morning. And almost caught up.
THERAPIST: That's great.
CLIENT: Today I was going to go town and take care of a title that was supposed to be due last week, but now there's another one they want me to do instead. So that totally changes my day, but saves me a trip to town today. I still have to go to the office. (pause) [inaudible [00:10:42] (pause) I had promised something for Monday, for not remembering that it was Veteran's Day. So I need to go to two different registries to do it, so. [00:11:01]
(pause) I have to see my psychiatrist today, and board meeting. I blew off the annual meeting last week. It's like a harvest potluck, and then they also swear in the new officers or vote on the new officers. Just blew it off. I don't know. I feel like I've been quasi-productive, especially doing all these titles. But I've been getting all my files open. I think I've got all of them open and a couple titles to do. I'm almost caught up.
What I need to do is get the—well not litigation, is get the pre-trial—there's a pre-trial motion in which the other side is supposed to propose, and they should've done it a week ago, and they haven't done it. I have to start getting on them to do it. I'm going to have to do some work on that. Figure out what's going on. I'll put that off till tomorrow or the next day or the day after... [00:12:20]
(pause) Not real excited for the board meeting. Mostly the financials, and... we were doing the strategic plan and kind of exciting stuff, you know, it was more interesting. And now we're doing the stuff which is not as interesting. Seems like more of a chore. (pause) I did good at the trivia night. I don't know if I told you that. [00:13:01]
THERAPIST: Yeah, you said you did pretty well.
CLIENT: Yeah. I'm a good guesser. That's how I got where I am in life, is all these multiple choice tests, being able to eliminate, guess. (pause) Even on ones where you had to fill in the word, you know. I kind of can guess. (pause) Now where that's actually gotten me, not that far. But it's gotten me here. (laughs)
(pause) Did you enjoy your Friday? [00:14:00]
THERAPIST: Okay.
CLIENT: I was okay.
THERAPIST: What?
CLIENT: I was okay, in case you're wondering. I made it. (pause) Kind of feel anxious about work. And it's more of—I don't even know. I've done a lot of the things I need to do. And mostly caught up on e-mails. But just I feel anxious about it. (pause) Maybe—I think it's just that it's all this title work, and it's kind of getting to me. Because even on my files, that's what's left for me to do, is do the title. [00:15:13]
THERAPIST: I see.
CLIENT: And while it's quicker for me, because I don't make all the copies and a lot of this—I don't write everything down, like I would for another lawyer, it's still a pain in the ass. (pause) Last week they told me I'd have a closing early this week. Doesn't look that way, though. You know, at least if I had one.
(pause) The closing I did in June is already refinancing. They just have to wait 90 days before—if they do it within 90 days, they lose their commission. So they wait 90 days. [00:16:07]
THERAPIST: So what is this making you nervous about, doing this?
CLIENT: I don't know. Just I seem anxious, you know.
THERAPIST: Yeah.
CLIENT: I don't know, I guess I'm always anxious. But just I feel anxious about work. Like I feel like I should be going into the office, and I get to the office and there's not a whole lot for me to really do. (pause) Except for these titles, which I can do in my PJs at home or...
THERAPIST: Right, right. Do you think it's feeling lonely?
CLIENT: Could be.
THERAPIST: And work is sort of something you focus on instead, in a way?
CLIENT: Maybe. I don't know. You're the professional.
THERAPIST: It's your head.
CLIENT: (laughs) Yeah, I don't know. [00:17:07]
(pause) This will be a busy weekend, though. Because we've got Boy Scouts on Saturday morning over at the fire department. Then I've got to pick up my winter share in the afternoon. And then the team guys are going out Saturday night.
THERAPIST: So no practice, just the going out part?
CLIENT: Yeah. And they did it once before—I think they did it a couple years ago, I didn't go. And so they're trying to get this annual night about the town, of just sheer decadence.
THERAPIST: That sounds fun.
CLIENT: But I've got a game on Sunday. Got to get rid of this cough. [00:18:05]
THERAPIST: Yeah, that's a problem because you have to get up after this, [inaudible [00:18:12] to the game?
CLIENT: Yeah, I'm going to be really hung over. I'm going to have to be careful. (pause) Yeah, so (pause) I don't know. My usual gang—I don't have anyone to go with. Want to go to the game?
THERAPIST: That's very nice of you to offer.
CLIENT: I get eight hours of -
THERAPIST: (laughs) [00:19:00]
CLIENT: So my dad had surgery, his third surgery, and he called me the other day and he was just out of it, on medication. And I didn't understand him halfway. He mentioned something about flying me home for Thanksgiving, but how expensive it's going to be. So I have no plans for Thanksgiving. Tracy invited me for Thanksgiving, but I'd almost rather be alone.
THERAPIST: Yeah. You wouldn't spend it with Jess and the kids?
CLIENT: No, I haven't been invited. I don't think that's something that I should be. Because it's her parents' house, you know. So you know, I thought—I think it'd be thoughtful to try and include me at least for Thanksgiving—not necessarily Christmas, but Thanksgiving. But I guess not.
And so my dad is—doesn't sound like he's going to be able to go to the football game, which means Ian is going to be able to go to the football game. [00:20:02]
THERAPIST: Right. And you said Ian is pretty psyched about that.
CLIENT: So he's really going to have fun. He'll be talking about that for a long time.
THERAPIST: Is this his first game?
CLIENT: Yeah. His poor schoolmates.
THERAPIST: (laughs) (pause)
CLIENT: The reason I go with my dad, he buys all the food. So I don't know about that, but Ian eats.
THERAPIST: That's what you said, I think at the soccer game, he had like ten pizzas and three hot dogs.
CLIENT: Yeah. He wanted another pizza. I'm like, no. He just a bottomless pit at these things. It's like if we went somewhere where there was like free food—unless it was fruit. He'd eat the fruit—but he wouldn't touch it. And then you go someplace where it's $10 for a hot dog, and he wants six of them. [00:21:12]
THERAPIST: Or twelve, yeah. (pause)
CLIENT: I'm kind of nervous that, of course, while I'm gone, that I'm going to get some closing or something to do. Which...
THERAPIST: When do you go?
CLIENT: December 1st. So I'll just miss that Tuesday, I'll be gone. (pause) I've got three closings on Thursday, so I figured give myself an extra day to deal with any problems on Friday. But I've got to use Phil to close one of my loans on Thursday.
THERAPIST: Because of course they're all coming in at the same time. [00:22:00]
CLIENT: Yeah. Well one's nearby, so... And that's the needier client. It's a cash sale too. It'll be quick. But I can't make Phil drive down all the way. So he can just drive half way. But I hate to have to have him do another closing while I'm gone. (pause) I'd prefer to do it myself. (pause) I should let them know I'm going to be gone. Not to do any closings. Which never does any good, you know.
(pause) [00:23:00]
Did this closing. We closed in March, but it's new construction, so we did the one in 2010. When I sent over my proposed additional provisions and the attorney had all kinds of changes. [00:24:05]
I have a new client buying in the same development. Now she's buying an affordable unit, but it's still the same development. And so I sent over the same thing I sent over last time, and she just made one change. Added something. And then they—so she's like "Nice working with you again. Everything looks good." (pause) It's almost—I don't (pause) it's a big long procedure which I've already read. So it's like I don't even really—I skim through it. (pause)
I think they're like $400,000 homes, and they're paying like two. [00:25:09]
THERAPIST: Wow. Because of subsidy or something?
CLIENT: Yeah, it's affordable housing. There's a statute that allows you to streamline the whole process through the state instead of going through all the little local boards and going through all the different state agencies and all the different things you have to do to build a development. There's this statue that says "Okay, we'll have this streamlined process, but you've got to designate so many units affordable." So...
THERAPIST: In order to get through the red tape, you have to create affordable units.
CLIENT: Yeah. So a lot of these nice towns with really nice condos and homes have affordable. You know. And of course the developer tries to find nifty little ways to get around losing money on making a full house. [00:26:08]
THERAPIST: Right.
CLIENT: And I don't know whether the house—you know it's probably not the nicest house. But it's probably got to be some minimum of...
THERAPIST: Right.
CLIENT: What I've seen some of them do is do a multi—where they do house lots and condominiums. And then they can make some of the condominiums affordable. So, but (pause). So these people are going to get a nice house. They're kind of panicking, because you're on a list that's a lottery.
THERAPIST: I see. Is it (pause) do you qualify by having low income or something?
CLIENT: Yeah, yeah. (pause) So they're like all "let's get it done, let's get it signed." Because they don't want the—they're nervous the agreement's going to go away somehow. [00:27:03]
THERAPIST: Yeah.
CLIENT: So (pause) but it makes me nervous, because the woman I'm dealing with, it's her daughter, but I'm dealing with the woman. And she works at my CPA's office. So normally when I get e-mails or phone calls from her, I'm always pretty nervous. It costs me money.
THERAPIST: I see. Right. Right.
CLIENT: So... (pause)
THERAPIST: Well that's kind of cool. Must be nice to see them get something like that.
CLIENT: Yeah. I'd like to get something like that. But I wouldn't want to live in that area. It's so far away from the city. (pause) Though business-wise would be much better for me, if I lived on the coast. [00:28:03]
THERAPIST: Right. Where you're always going up anyways.
CLIENT: At some point you'd think I'd develop some business around there. I've had a little bit. There's probably something I could be doing to get more business. Permanent office would help. At least some. In the Square, there's executive suites, like by the offices. And if I can get business more consistent, I might just have a presence, at least advertise. Because that's where you get the clients, through like the web and whatnot, because they're looking in certain towns and cities.
THERAPIST: I see. (pause) I haven't seen that bracelet before. [00:29:13]
CLIENT: Yeah, Ian went to a birthday party or something, and they gave little skulls. And he got two, so he gave one to me. And I'm like "They're cool, they're little skulls."
THERAPIST: Cool. Oh, look at that. There they are.
CLIENT: (laughs) He likes skulls. (pause) It's only a matter of time before this thing breaks and they fly all over. (pause)
So it kind of fucks me up when my whole day is just flipped around. I still have to go there. But that means I got to go to town tomorrow. [00:30:28]
THERAPIST: Right.
CLIENT: And (pause) probably got to go into the office too. Wish you had a better scanner in your office. I've got to try and buy you a scanner.
THERAPIST: So you worry that stuff's going got come up and you're not going to be able to get done what you need to get done? Somehow?
CLIENT: No, I just go through these moments, like when I'm doing work, I'm fine, but when there's—like yesterday, most of the day I wasn't doing work. I just feel anxious about work when I'm not doing work, you know. [00:31:04]
And then I focused so much on what I was going to do today, that I get tripped up—and I don't know why it affects me so much, but you know—changing what I need to do—and what I had to do other than the trip to town was quite easy. So now I'm going to have to do something a little more substantial.
THERAPIST: What's the anxiety like?
CLIENT: I don't know. Kind of nauseous, a little butterflies in the stomach kind of. (pause) My head feels (pause) it's a physical manifestation. (pause) Along with the mental, you know. It's not just all anxious, but...I don't know if it's the Wellbutrin that's making me anxious,. Hopefully she starts weaning me off that today. [00:32:33]
THERAPIST: Uh huh. Yeah, I could imagine it going back and kind of activating or.... (pause)
CLIENT: Because I take one in the morning. I take a [inaudible [00:32:56] at the same time. But they're really just kind of offsetting each other, you know, to some degree. [00:33:02]
THERAPIST: I think that even though you've—[inaudible [00:33:17] to work with better and you've got a little bit more goodness, your confidence is still really shaky. You kind of believe that somehow stuff will fall through or go back to the way it was, like that?
CLIENT: Yeah, I don't know. Or I'll fuck up, or making some of these mistakes completely. It's not that I—it's just when I don't have any work to do, there's no mistakes to be made.
THERAPIST: I think I take your point, yeah.
CLIENT: So it's not so much that "Oh, God, I'm making all of these mistakes." It's just that I've got work to do, and I'm a little rusty because I didn't have the work over the summer, and you know. And then plus, the more work you have at once, the more likely you are to make mistakes, because you're pulled in different directions. So you're more likely to skip a step or, you know. That kind of stuff is happening. [00:34:15]
THERAPIST: Well, maybe. Or maybe it works the other way. I mean, feeling—sure, I think I get what you mean in that if you're busy or you're occupied with more things, you don't necessarily have the time and you're under a different kind of stress. But I don't know, I think there's a different kind of stress, and maybe one that can even be worse, that comes from not having that much to do.
CLIENT: Yeah. I know. That's definitely worse.
THERAPIST: Yeah. (pause)
CLIENT: Like knowing that that settlement was coming provided some security for me.
THERAPIST: Sure.
CLIENT: Even though I've got three closings, so I'm going to make a good chunk of money at the end of the month, you know. [00:35:01]
THERAPIST: Yeah. Yep.
CLIENT: And slowly these $175 checks roll in.
THERAPIST: Yep. They've been paying you okay?
CLIENT: Yeah. There's a bunch that are kind of old that I need to send out an e-mail. Maybe I'll do that today. But yeah, I mean I get three or four checks a month. And Phil is good about paying me. He used to be not so good, but now he's pretty good.
THERAPIST: What are you doing for Phil?
CLIENT: Titles.
THERAPIST: Oh, okay. He's the one you're doing titles for, and then he -
CLIENT: I do a couple of titles for him.
THERAPIST: Oh, I see.
CLIENT: And then this other attorney I do a lot more for. And Phil is the one who referred me to him.
THERAPIST: I see.
CLIENT: But Phil's the personal injury attorney. [inaudible [00:35:50] a real estate attorney. And see, so when I do a title for him, I've got to walk him through everything and explain everything to him. So he always tries to do favors for me. (pause) Because I'm not just doing the title for him. [00:36:11]
THERAPIST: Right, you're kind of teaching him.
CLIENT: I'm teaching him what to do, you know, so....
THERAPIST: And he's also going through [inaudible [00:36:15] for you sometimes.
CLIENT: Right, right. Well he did it once and he's going to do it again, so....
THERAPIST: Oh, okay. (pause)
CLIENT: Someone did give me the name of a new mortgage company in a different state, which she said she was going to do kind of like an e-mail where she was going to introduce us through the e-mail and then just kind of send me the woman's information. So I've got to follow up with her today, try and get a launch here. They do this state, so maybe they're not married to whoever their lawyers are or whatever, but...
THERAPIST: Right. That'd be great.
CLIENT: That would be. In that aspect. (pause) It'd be nice that I got to the point that I could actually just hire another lawyer. I wouldn't even here a paralegal. I would hire a lawyer, young lawyer, and we could have him do other stuff besides just the real estate. [00:37:17]
THERAPIST: Hire him to do what?
CLIENT: Like do closings and you know, research and other stuff. Or like my landlord/tenant, you know, my other cases. We have enough of that business that it's worth hiring someone for. But it would need to be a steady flow of closings, you know. I could teach him to do titles and then like do my titles for me.
THERAPIST: Mmhm.
CLIENT: Or some of them. The idea is that there'd be enough work for both of us. Not so I could go to the beach. (pause) Though I do want to go snowboarding. [00:38:04]
THERAPIST: Right. (pause)
CLIENT: If Jess doesn't offer to pay her taxes, I'm going to go get my snowboard. I feel like she'll be less (pause) "Why aren't you giving me your snowboarding but you're not giving me any money?" You know. That's my big concern. That she takes that decision...
THERAPIST: Right.
CLIENT: So I'm going to pay for a legal bill for the tax guy.
THERAPIST: How has she been doing other than the hard drive crashing?
CLIENT: Okay, I guess. We really don't talk about it. (pause) I don't know. I know she's not getting the mediation work she was hoping for. You're not going to all of a sudden—this is what I'm trying to explain to people, is that you just can't hold yourself out to do something and then have the business come. You've got to work at it, getting the business, and it takes a couple of years. And there's a mediator who visits my E&G; group, and she's just now getting busy, having started a year or so ago. [00:39:23]
THERAPIST: Yeah. Yeah, I remember a relative of mine was saying it's kind of like ocean liners. It takes awhile to (pause) get them started or change direction.
CLIENT: Yeah. And the legal profession they say takes three to five years to get self-referring practice. Which I had until all my contacts went away.
THERAPIST: Right.
CLIENT: Now I've got to wait another three to five years. (pause)
THERAPIST: I don't [inaudible [00:40:01] than that. I mean, well maybe—I'm just thinking recently. [00:40:08]
CLIENT: Yeah. If I had a few more contacts, you know, they make up for when one's not busy. And that's what I'm kind of missing.
THERAPIST: I see, yeah.
CLIENT: But if I could put away a chunk of money to make it through a couple months of that, I'll be in good shape.
THERAPIST: Yeah. That'd be good.
CLIENT: But you know, soon as I put money away, I spend it. So (pause) car payment, insurance, all kinds of crap. Eating.
(pause) [00:41:00]
(pause) [00:42:00]
I'm just thinking about like the snowboarding, how I'm going to blow all my extra money on snowboarding.
THERAPIST: Are they expensive?
CLIENT: It's expensive. There's not a cheap way around the [inaudible [00:42:56].
THERAPIST: Uh huh. Like mostly [inaudible [00:42:59]. [00:43:00]
CLIENT: Yeah. You can find deals for the weekdays, which is probably what I should do.
THERAPIST: Mmhm.
CLIENT: I don't know if the lodges have wi-fi. I used to have a cellular for my laptop, yeah, but I got rid of it because it was like 40 bucks a month.
THERAPIST: Yeah. (pause) Like you'd go up and do titles before and after you ski or something?
CLIENT: Yeah, or if just someone needed something while I was gone. That's the part of my job, is that people are like "Oh, I need this change and I need it now." So I can't ever really be too far away from my laptop.
THERAPIST: We should stop for now. But I'm out next Friday, the week after Thanksgiving. So see you after Thanksgiving.
CLIENT: I guess so. Yeah, maybe my parents will fly me home. I doubt it though. It's like a thousand bucks. [00:44:09]
END TRANSCRIPT
