<font size="4"><b>Chapter One</b></font>
[p. <i>[17]</i>]

It is deep in the night; morning is a mirage. And the thing I
have dreaded has happened: the beast is outside my window. It is a
mechanical beast, and it screamssteel against steel, a heavy thundering
of weight. There is the oppressive sense of something huge
and black. It is confined for now, but it threatens to bolt loose, breaking
all natural laws; if I move, it might notice me. I lie motionless,
trying not to breathe. The beast slows, grumbling, then shudders,
slides, and finally comes to a raucous, banging stop outside my window.
Somehow the silence is worse than the cacophony which preceded
it. It is a silence of something about to happen, broken at
intervals by another metallic groan as the beast moves, muttering in
its sleep. The fear is a bubble which rises from the pit of my stomach
to my lips. Then there is a shadow in the doorway: my mother.


"It's a freight train, Tace," she says tiredly. "Go back to sleep." In
a minute, I hear her voice across the hallway, in my parents' bedroom.
"I swear, I think she can hear those trains the minute they
leave the station in Chattanooga."


I am sitting on my mother's lap. She is kneeling or sitting cross-legged
on a bare hardwood floor. I feel warm and happy. There is
sunlight coming through the window in front of me, and a breeze
moves the sheer curtains. I am laughing.

[p. <i>18</i>]

It is summer, and I am in the backyard, a shelter under a cool
canopy of oak trees. My mother's chaise lounge rests on bare dirt,
next to the duck pen. She is sitting with the mother of one of my
playmates, and they are sipping iced tea from tall frosted metal
glasses, and I should be comfortable. But I'm not. I feel a familiar,
gnawing fear. What's wrong? Something's wrong. I keep waiting for
it to happen. "It's so nice to sit back here when it's raining, the trees
are so close you don't get wet at all," my mother is saying. Somehow
that casual remark is branded in my brain as if she had said, "The
Russians are bombing us," or, "I am dying." Those were the things I
expected to hear.


Most of my early memories are like sunlight through a tree, dappled
with dread. "My hill-and-dale girl," my mother called me. At
night, after everybody was asleep, I would kneel at the cedar chest
in my bedroom, making a shrine by spreading the white sheer curtains
around me. There I would bargain with God for relief from this
awful sense of guilt and impending disaster. If I could be good
enough, my father would not lose his job, my mother would not die
of cancer, our house would not burn down. I would go to bed holding
a cross made of plastic that absorbed light and glowed for a while
in the dark, hoping to drift to sleep while the emblem of my Savior
watched over me, a magical purplish glow. But the glow often faded
before sleep came. On some nights, I drifted in and out of an anxious
doze, snapped into consciousness by the crowing of my grandmother's
rooster across the cornfield from my bedroom. It might be
dawn; it might be three a.m. The sound, like the call of a mockingbird,
years later, seemed an accusation aimed at me for sins I could
not name.

[p. <i>19</i>]

<i>Verily, I say unto thee, that this night, before the cock crows, thou shalt
deny me thrice</i>.


Anxiety was in the air, like a virus.


My mother was afraid. "I had a terrible dream last night," she
said one day. The four of us were in the car, at the top of a hill deep
in the countryside south of Atlanta. We had been "visiting," dropping
by relatives' houses on a Sunday afternoon, an old Southern custom.
Now it was late. Ahead of us, the sun had burned to a dull
orange and was sinking behind a knotted bramble of bare tree
branches, throwing shadows across monochrome fields marked with
the stubble of last summer's corn. My mother was always having terrible
dreams, prophecies of disaster or interminable slow-motion
nightmares in which she could not escape the thing that was pursuing
her. It was the legacy of her past: a childhood of poverty, the
early loss of both parents, years of deprivation and abuse from relatives.
From all of that she had salvaged her Southern fundamentalist
faith. Jesus was her refuge, the one Being who had never deserted
her or made her feel unworthy; she loved her Savior with the fervor of
an abandoned child. But even kindly Jesus warned us of doomsday,
and that was what she was talking about now. My sister and I leaned
over the front seat; she sat beside my father as he drove, and looked
into the sunset.


"The sun was blood-red, like it was the end of the world," she
said.


"What happened in the dream, Mama?" Her words gave me a
chill. "Were we in it?"


"Yes," she said, shortly. Then she shuddered. "I don't want to
talk about it." No matter how I pressed her, she would not say more.

[p. <i>20</i>]

I could not remember a time when I did not know that. The
faith that steeled my mother for life, which my father accepted and
which seemed to come so naturally for my older sister, did not come
naturally to me.


From the beginning, my confusion centered on this thing called
the Second Coming. It was supposed to be the moment of ultimate
rapture for all Christians, when believers were to be caught up in the
air and taken directly to heaven. We heard the Bible verses in church.
<i>I tell you, in that night there shall be two men in one bed; the one shall be
taken and the other shall be left ... Two men shall be in the field; the one
shall be taken, and the other left</i>. It was a moment all Christians supposedly
longed for. But every description sounded terrible, disorienting,
and strange to me. I just didn't get it. And the fact that this
alternate view made no sense, that I awaited the Second Coming with
horror and dread, was proof of my difference from others. And different,
to a child, was a curse. Different meant defective.


"I can't feel at home in this world anymore," we sang in church.
But the world <i>was</i> my home. I was in love with the tangible; in my
mind, even the letters of the alphabet possessed shape, color, texture,
weight.

[p. <i>21</i>]

This was Georgia, twenty miles south of Atlanta. The time was
the early sixties.


One night when I was seven, President Kennedy was on television.
I said, "What is it?" The adults stared at the television and did
not answer. Afterwards, we had a family conference around the round
oak kitchen table about what to do if a nuclear bomb fell on Atlanta.
Do not get on the bus, my mother ordered; I will come get you, no
matter what. At church, pale men in dark horn-rimmed glasses bent
over me and asked me to suppose that godless Russians had threatened
to shoot me if I did not renounce Jesus Christ. What would I
do? I would renounce Jesus and go home, I thought; maybe then
they would leave me alone. But I didn't say that. Telling the pale
men that I was ready to knuckle under to the godless Russians was
not what they wanted to hear.


The imminence of nuclear war, centered around someplace
called Cuba, got tangled up in my mind with the Second Coming. I
couldn't decide which scared me more: the godless Russians or Jesus
in the sky, coming to judge the quick and the dead. Somehow I
always thought both events would take place directly over the marquee
of the Roosevelt Drive-In Theater, visible from our back
doorstep.


My mother remembers one Fourth of July in either 1962 or
1963. She and my father had stepped out into the driveway around
midnight to watch the annual fireworks show put on by the drive-in.
My sister and I were asleep, they thought, in the back bedroom. At
some point, between whistles and pops, she became aware of screaming
from the back of the house. It was the two of us, awakened by the
noise. We thought it was the end of the world.


I have no memory of this event. I knew only that annihilation

[p. <i>22</i>]

One day in fourth grade, I left my seat in the classroom and went
down the hall to the girls' room. I walked close to the wall, trying
not to take up space. Inside the rest room, I crouched behind a toilet,
my arms wrapped around my knees. I did not cry; I was just wordlessly
sad. Unable to figure out why, equipped with only a child's
logic, I eventually decided I was sad because President Kennedy was
dead.


Even then, this rationale did not seem satisfactory.


There were clear signs on at least one side of my familymy
father'sthat a vulnerability to mood disorders was woven into the
family genes.


At some point in the 1930s, one story went, my father's mother
simply went to bed and stayed there for a decade. No one knew
exactly why, though there was some vague mention of "female troubles."
In retrospect, it seems she simply gave up on life. By the time
I formed my first memories of my father's mother, she was a bent
woman, frailer and more elderly than her years, who sat on the sofa
and seemed to absorb all the light and levity in the room. Her need
for human contactany kindwas insatiable, but her usual way of
asking for it was to request personal favors. "Would you trim my
toenails?" she would ask. "Would you wash my hair?"


Years later, as an adult, I learned of another childa girl born
before my father, whose existence my grandmother rarely spoke of.

[p. <i>23</i>]

My father's father was a roguishly handsome man who was one of
Birmingham's first motorcycle policemen. No one in the family ever
heard my grandmother call him anything but "Boy"not in the
demeaning sense also known then in the South, as addressed to black
men, but as a simple word of endearment, an unusual gesture in a
woman so reticent. At some point after Helen Faye's death, he left. In
some versions of the story, he simply departedwent out for a pack
of cigarettes, as the saying goes, and never came back; in other versions,
they had fought over his decision to go look for work in
Mobile. His brother found him, years later, working on the docks in
San Francisco. When I was an infant, my mother says, there came
news that he had remarried. My grandmother was living with my
parents thenshe spent most of her life, after her bedridden period,
shuttling from one son's house to the otherand my mother was
awakened in the night by the sound of racking sobs. By then, he had
been gone for several years. My grandmother still wore her wedding
ring.


So death and abandonment took up residence in our house,
trapped under a blanket of suffocating silence, and for comfort there
was a kindly Jesus who might come at any moment to judge the
quick and the dead.


Of my mother's family I know even less. She has a picture, taken
about 1929, of two little girls standing against the side of a house. It
appears to be morning. Both have bobbed hair and are carrying

[p. <i>24</i>]

She never knew her father. He left not long after that, for reasons
never explained, the way men left families in the Depression to
seek work elsewhere or simply to rid themselves of the burdens of a
wife and children. My mother was told that he had died. She has only
vague memories of her mothera serious, deeply religious woman
with auburn hair, who worked in the Nabisco factory in downtown
Atlanta, making biscuit boxes. She died of influenza when my
mother was four, the winter after that Easter snapshot was made. My
auntthe seven-year-old in that picturewas told that as their
mother was dying, she made her own sister promise to take care of
her two little girls.


The promise was casually made and just as casually broken;
poverty had made my mother's family bitter and mean-spirited. Two
children, to them, simply meant a bigger grocery bill. Neither my
mother nor her sister has ever spoken of their relatives with anything
approaching affection. The only uncle who was financially stable, an
accountant with Coca-Cola, did petition to adopt them. But the
courts refused to give him custody, citing his alcoholism. For a time,
my mother and her sister shuttled between the homes of various relatives,
treated like the unwanted children they were. My mother
remembers a family argument that ended with the two of them
being pushed out of a car and left by the side of a deserted road in the
country. How long they were there she does not remember; it seemed

[p. <i>25</i>]

The two of them wound up as full-time residents of the Southern
Christian Children's Home in downtown Atlanta. During one particularly
lean period, money was so scarce that the children got a
piece of bread with some pasty peanut butter for dinner at night. My
mother learned to eat the bread and save the peanut butter, rolling it
into a ball to eat in bed at night before she went to sleep.


My aunt left the children's home at sixteen to make an unwise
marriage. My mother was luckier: she was adopted at the age of
eight. Not surprisingly, she lavished her unqualified adoration on
the man who came to her rescue. He was a rawboned Georgia farmer
named John Derrick, whose wife, Cora, could not have children. I
called him Pa-Pa. By the time I was four or five, he was retired from
Southern Railway, the job he had taken to pay the bills. But at heart
he was still a farmer, and up to the year before he died, he was still
reflexively putting seeds in the soil. One of my earliest memories is of
sitting on his lap while he fished a knife out of a front pocket of his
worn overalls to peel an apple for me.


My memories of those years are primitive and sensory.


The dirt road out front is red clay, gluey and slick when wet. I
dig it out from under my nails, find it between my toes. I walk
behind my grandfather, Pa-Pa, as he plows the upper cornfield with
his white mule, Becky. It is early spring, and the crumbling clots of
dirt are cold, as if the plow is opening up the winter earth to the
steady spring sun. The dirt smells dark, a musky scent of manure
and rain.


Later, in another spring, I remember lying on the earth outside
the barn, across a dirt lane from where Pa-Pa plowed. He died on a

[p. <i>26</i>]

So much sadnessand yet by the time my parents had met and
married, life seemed bright, the worst hardships behind them. Pictures
of my mother from that period show a beautiful woman with
awkward, round-shouldered posture, a pose she adopted because she
thought her height was unfeminine. She was slim, with red hair,
green eyes, and a gardenia-pale complexion. My father was skinny in
those years, with black curly hair and an intense gaze that my sister
would later inherit. He came home from World War II, they met
while working at Delta Airlines, and they married a year later, following
their version of a script that millions of returning veterans
and their brides were also following. Pa-Pa carved out eight acres of
his woods and cornfields next door to his own house, and my father
ordered some house blueprints out of a magazine. He and Pa-Pa built
most of the house from scratch, contracting out the skilled labor but
mixing cement and hoisting two-by-fours themselves. My mother
plastered the walls. The result was a split-level ranch house with a
pine-paneled den and a two-sided living room fireplace I still recall
with affection. My sister was conceived in that house in the winter of
1953. I was born two years later.


In those years, my father was getting his law degree at night
while working by day in the cargo department at Delta. I was lulled

[p. <i>27</i>]

He was impulsive. Once, he came home from work tearing in
the driveway, brakes grinding, horn beeping, yelling at us to get in
the car. We screamed up the road to the freeway overpass that was

[p. <i>28</i>]

After he got his law degree, he moved into management at Delta,
and we qualified for free airline passes. But he never planned trips; we
just took them. One day, he came home from work and announced,
"We're going to Australia," and that weekend we did. It was the first
of several similar adventures, which over the years took us to places
like Ireland, New Zealand, Hawaiianyplace my parents had always
hankered to explore and wanted us to see. My mother found this no
less thrilling than my sister and I did. "Who would have thought,"
she would say frequently, "that an orphan from the Southern Christian
Children's Home would wind up in" In their best moments,
those trips were hilarious, <i>ad hoc</i> enterprises. Once, trying to escape
from a large and peculiarly uninhabited airport in Auckland, we
found ourselves in a rental car, stopped at the end of a road which
had put us directly onto a runway. "Now what?" my mother asked,
and always the eager wiseacre, I stuck my head between her and my
father in the front seat. "What you do now," I said, "is locate the
wind sock and take off into the wind."


Sometimes rage would consume him, for no particular reason
a lawn mower that wouldn't start, the mayonnaise jar left open on
the kitchen counter. At those times, he frightened me; his fury could
clear the room. There was something exaggerated in the way he
threw a tool down or slammed a door, a fierceness that seemed to
come from nowhere. In him I sensed a deep, unfathomable anger
perhaps because, even then, I sensed that I had it too. Then it would
be over. He wandered through the house singing nonsense lyrics to
popular tunes. "Toreador/Don't spit on the floor/Use the cuspidor/
That's what it's for," he bellowed; or, "LEP-rosy/Night and day
you TOR-ture me/Sometimes I wonder/Why I fall asunder ..."

[p. <i>29</i>]

For my mother, his ebullience was a tonic. She was happy. I
watched her from the kitchen doorway as she stood at the sink, wearing
a green striped seersucker dress, her red hair pulled off her face.
Her hands moved in and out of the soapsuds; her face was calm and
serious. I thought no one in the world was more beautiful. "Love
lifted me," she sang in her clear, true soprano, or, "He hideth my
soul in the cleft of a rock/That shadows a dry, thirsty land/He
hideth my soul in the depths of his love/And covers me there with
his hand."


On the last day of school before the Christmas holidays, December
18, 1968, my bus stopped at its usual spot, across the railroad
tracks, within sight of my house. It was a clear and chilly afternoon.
"Be sweet," my friend Necie said to me as I filed off behind my sister.
The last thing I remember is a glint of sunlight on metal out of the
corner of my eye.


The car had come over a slight rise, traveling so fast that I never
saw it. It missed my sister by inches. I took the blow in the lower
right side of my back and went up over the hood like a rag doll. It
was a week before I woke up, on Christmas Eve. On the television
set beside my bed, the Apollo 8 astronauts were about to make man's
first journey around the dark side of the moon. I caught glimpses of
it, in intervals between morphine-induced sleep, through my right
eye, the only part of me that wasn't encased in gauze.


The impact had shattered the bones of my lower back and pelvis,
and I had deep lacerations on the outside of my left thigh, where I
apparently skidded along the road. Lesser lacerations marked me
from head to toes; there was even a speck of gravel embedded in my
wrist. The internal damage was also significant: intestinal hemorrhages

[p. <i>30</i>]

The accident coincided with a major growth spurt of puberty.
After three weeks, I left the hospital in a wheelchair; in three
months, I was walking without a limp. But there was a slashing red
scar that covered a quarter of my face, starting just above my left eye,
turning the outer edge of my eye up into a distorted squint.


I never knew exactly how the accident happened. I was aware
that it was a time of racial tension. Martin Luther King had been
assassinated the previous April, and there were dark mutterings
among some people at church that the driver, a nineteen-year-old
black man, had run me down on purpose, because I was white. Late
in the spring, there was a criminal trial. In court, the driver said his
brakes had failed. In the courthouse corridor, our families regarded
each other with hostility. My family waited for some token of
remorse; his family waited to see what form of injustice the court
system would inflict.


After lunch, I was called to the witness stand. The questions
from the prosecutor were perfunctory. Then he asked me to step
down from the witness box and walk in front of the jury. He guided
me down the row of jurors slowly. Some of them leaned forward to
get a good look at the red scars on my face; I remember an older man
who looked at me and flinched. The scars, I realized much later, had
nothing to do with proving the defendant had committed a crime.
But they were an eloquent, unspoken message from the prosecutor
to the twelve white people in the jury box: here was a young white

[p. <i>31</i>]

The defense attorney had no questions. The jury took half an
hour to convict. I heard later that the judge gave him three years.


The whole thing was unbearable, so in my mind I sealed it away.
Don't worry, people told me; the scars are bad right now, but plastic
surgery will fix that. And so I waited. The summer after the accident,
I had the first of a series of plastic surgeriesa day or two in
the hospital, followed by several weeks spent with a bandaged face,
hiding inside the house, looking as if I had been in a bar fight. Each
time, I waited for the bandages to be removed, to see the face I had
had before; each time, I was disappointed. In fact, the only thing that
could heal the scars was the passage of time. To a fourteen-year-old,
this was an alien concept. "You're a pretty girl," my mother kept
trying to reassure me, but all I had to do was look in the mirror to see
that this was untrue. And so I adopted the only tactic left to me: I
tried to ignore it.


It worked, some of the time. Once, as I was waiting at a bus stop,
a stranger inquired rudely, "What happened to your face?" I looked
straight ahead, unable to think of a reply. "Don't worry, darlin'," said
my emergency room doctor, a rakish man who was on his third or
fourth wife, a former Playboy bunny. "You're gonna be an interestin'-lookin'
woman." This wasn't helpful. I wasn't stupid; I knew
"interesting" was just one step up from "ugly," and ranked far behind
"beautiful" or even "pretty"and he was proof of how much men
valued beauty in women. My plastic surgeon was a man of medical
renown who radiated an emotional chill, he observed my face impassively,
the way an artist considers his options. In his silence, I heard
an eloquent commentary on the impossibility of my dreams.


Finally, despite her moral qualms about allowing me to wear

[p. <i>32</i>]

Journal entry, Saturday, may 15, 1971:


Nonny got her hair cut today, so now I am definitely
the plainer sister in the family. I always knew
I was ... She's got all it takes to be really pretty, and
she's learning how to take advantage of it. As for me,
I look as good as I'm ever going to look.


I had waited for adolescence like any other young girl, as if it
would be a Disney dream and something magical would happen.
Now, although I longed to hear my father say I was pretty, I knew it
would never happen. I didn't even ask. When I came home from the

[p. <i>33</i>]

Once again, pale men in dark glasses bent over me at church,
this time to murmur their thanks that the good Lord had allowed
me to survive, and like a good daughter I echoed their piety. Inside,
my rage retreated to a dark corner of my mind. It would be years
before I realized I was angry.


By my senior year in high school, I had fallen in with a crowd
the rest of the school referred to sardonically as "creamers," as in
"cream of the crop," the top of our class in an ordinary Georgia public
high school. Being a creamer was the same thing as being called
a geek or a nerd, but that was okay with me; at last, I had found a
group to belong to. In geek tradition, we stuck together. We even
went to the prom en masse, since none of us could work up the
nerve to ask anyone else for a date. By graduation, I had garnered a
number of academic honors, I played tennis, I had even acquired a
boyfriend. I read constantly. My reading list was heavily male,
British, and nineteenth-century, though an occasional American got
thrown in: Dickens<i>Great Expectations</i> was my favorite bookthe
Bront sisters, Thackeray, Hemingway, F. Scott Fitzgerald, James
Thurber, Mark Twain. My life was full of the normal teenage

[p. <i>34</i>]

But signs of chronic depression were emerging. Even before the
accident, I had begun to make frequent trips to the doctor, always
complaining of a variety of ailments. Some were real; others had no
clear physical cause. I seemed to suffer constantly from stomachaches,
headaches, a mysterious cough, strange lumps in my lymph glands
a litany of ailments baffling to my doctors and worrisome to my
mother, whose experiences had taught her that there is no such thing
as bad news, only catastrophe. Each ailment convinced her I was suffering
from a fatal disease. The family doctor referred me to an
internist, who referred me to a neurologist, who gave me an EEG. It
was normal. My urine was tested for diabetes; my blood was tested
for leukemia. Those tests were normal too. Finally, in bafflement, the
internist gave up and wrote a prescription for Valium. I was thrilled.
Not only was I getting some attention, which I craved, but the Valium
meant that I was alsofinallygoing to get a good night's
sleep.


may 1973: It's going on one a.m., but I'm writing
until I get sleepy. Last night I had a recurrence
of all my old symptomsinsomnia, dozing off only
to find myself awakened with a start ten minutes
later by my own beating heart, unable to catch my
breath ... Tonight I took a dose of cough medicine
with codeine, plus ten milligrams of Valium, and I
hope I can sleep. ... This started about a year and a
half ago, when we were going to move, and I have
had problems with it off and on since then.

[p. <i>35</i>]

I was seventeen.


The anxiety was like poison ivy. It took nothing to set off that
mental itcha chance remark, remembering an event from the day
beforebut once it started I found it impossible to stop the cycle.
My thoughts twisted in a circle, my pulse hammered, I couldn't concentrate.
The only thing I wanted was to make <i>sense</i> of this feeling
and the explanation, or apparent explanation, was obvious: I was
worried about boys.


But I was a Christian, and Christian girls were supposed to have
their minds on higher things. We were supposed to be happy.
"Doubt," one Sunday school teacher told us solemnly, "is of the
Devil." I was filled with doubt, I was wormy with it. When the principal
of our public high school brought a beauty queen to a football
pep rally to offer her own personal Christian testimony, I sat in the
bleachers with my friend Jim as, one by one, all the people around us
went down to rededicate their lives to Christ. I wasn't making a
statement; I just hated the emotional coercion.


I also hated my face. There were times when I silently mouthed
obscenities at myself in the bathroom mirror, sick at the sight of the
red keloid scar which marred my forehead. But I admitted that to
no one; for years, whenever anyone brought up the subject of the
accident, I would leave the room, too furious to speak. With nowhere
else to direct that anger, I focused it on the most readily available
targetmyself. The urge to do this, to catalog my inferiorities, was
one of the earliest impulses behind the creation of my journal;
enclosed in that first volume, I found scraps of paper predating the
beginning of my journal in December 1969, but which I had folded
and kept with the journal. On one such paper, dated October 23,
1969, I had written:

[p. <i>36</i>]

Basically I am a very cold and withdrawn person
... Most [people] think I am honest, dependable,
and trustworthy, a fine young Christian girl, I
have to state that this is, I'm afraid, mostly hypocritical
... I have tried to be a good Christian, but
because of the above-stated tendency for being hypocritical,
and also an alarming tendency towards
deceit and conceit, I have found it extremely hard ...
I am much worse than the drunks on the streets or
the prostitutes in the barrooms, as they do not pretend
to be better than they are. I cannot say the same
for myself. P.S. When I read this I will probably start
feeling sorry for myself.


At other times, those journal entries show that at some level I
understood that my physical ailments and my mental state were
linked.


APRIL 14, 1970: I feel fine in the middle of the
day; at night I start feeling depressed, and in the
morning I trace the hours on the clock till bedtime. I
am really not worth all this self pity, because I have
anything that anybody could ever ask for. Well, I
must not lie to myself: I have been thinking sometimes
bout attempting suicide because that would
put me in the hospital ... I know why I am having
fainting fits, dizzy spells, and general less than normal
health; it's because of all these dark thoughts I
keep thinking.

[p. <i>37</i>]

But these were episodes. For long periods in between, life was
normal, with its regular ups and downs. Sometimes I found it hard to
believe I was the same person. In one journal entry from June 1972,
I recalled my incredulity when, walking home from the horse barn
one day, I had realized how sad I had been only a few weeks earlier.
"You mean, you really wanted to die?" I asked myself. "You must
have been out of your mind!"


It was like flying low in an airplane, in and out of thunderheads.
The normal work of adolescenceacquiring knowledge, achieving
emotional maturity, discovering sex, preparing for college and independence
took a back seat to navigating the daily storm front. I
was angry, so angry. My father's black rages now seemed trivial,
compared to the fury I felt but could not express. It seemed uncontrollable,
and for that reason I frightened myself, sought to push it to
the back of my mind. And for a long while, I succeeded. When the
emotional storms had abated, I felt energized, optimistic, full of
myselfthe adolescent version of the laughing, risible child I had
been. There was a song from my senior year in high school that
became linked in my mind to those times: "I can see clearly now, the
pain is gone/I can see all obstacles in my way ..."


In black moments, my turmoil spilled out in nervous, melodramatic
pronouncements; I was dying for someone to discover what I
tried so hard to hide. When the Valium prescription ran out, I
replaced it with over-the-counter sleeping pills, which I took by the
fistful. Once, riding in a carload of friends on our way to a football
game, I announced: "Last night, I had to take ten Sominex to get to
sleep." My friend Jim spoke up from the back seat. "I don't think
you should take so many pills, Tracy, " he saidand I treasured that
remark for years, as if it had been a profession of love: he had <i>noticed</i>.

[p. <i>38</i>]

At home, the rule of silence prevailed. Once my mother found a
drawerful of empty Sominex bottles in my bureau and threw them
out; I did not discover until years later that she had sobbed for a day,
afraid that I was becoming a drug addict. I did not tell anyone that
despite the Sominex I still awoke at four a.m. with my heart pounding
so loud I could hear it in my ears. I did not tell anyone that
when, in the winter of my senior year, I found out that Jim had gone
out for a date with one of my best friends, I had gone home and taken
half a bottle of aspirin.


I wanted to die, or have my misery noticed, but neither of those
things happened.

