<font size="4"><b>Chapter 4</b></font>

FOR a while he lay silent in his bewilderment, listening and
watching. So much going on, so many people milling about,
so many sounds. Voices saying blimey, mite, not-arf, come
off it. The large ward crammed full with beds, except for a
passage down the centre; iron posts everywhere; most of the
beds occupied, but also many up-patients. A hundred men all
told. Many groups, forming and dissolving. Men going in and
out of doors with towels and soap. Light-hearted banter in
lilting speechon the theme of there'll be no promotion this
side of the ocean, so cheer up me lads fk 'em all. Near the
door a little group of orderlies, and beside them a man who
looked like neither an orderly nor a doctor, thin, in his late
thirties, infinitely amusable.


Michael got out a cigarette he had in a crumpled silver paper
and asked a Negro standing near him for a light. The Negro
gave him his wispy Weight, whose glowing end he pressed
against his cigarette. Then he said:


"You fellows all wounded?"


The Negro answered, yes, in the same dialect as the others.


"Where'd you get yours?" Michael asked him.


"On the Sangro, nearly 'ad me 'ead blew off. Still got a
sliver 'ere."


He turned his head to show a bandage. "Where did you cop
it?"


"The Hitler Line."


"You must be a Canydian?"


"I am."


"Blimey! The 'ole bleedin' empire's 'erewe got some
Anzacs on board, too."

[p. <i>63</i>]

A bed patient spoke to him. "You 'it bad, chum?"


Michael gave the Italian <i>cosi-cosa</i> sign with one hand, "Could
be worsemy foot ... what about you?"


"Malaria, mite, bit by little Ann Nopheles."


"Not so good."


"Nah, it ain't."


A man came by carrying a checker-board and men.


"'Oo wants a gime?" he asked.


"I'll play you," Michael said.


They set up the board on a stool, his opponent sitting on a
patient's bed.


"How do you play?" Michael asked, "You have to take when
you can?"


"Aye, that's the only way."


Michael felt his mind to be clear and accurate. He watched
the board with intense concentration. In a dozen moves he had
his opponent floundering, and thereafter dispatched him easily.
He won another game and a new man challenged him. With
rapid moves he overcame him also. A number of patients
crowded round the bed. They applauded his spectacular moves;
he became excited with all the attention shown to him. He
exulted in his ability. Then, suddenly, he said he'd had enough,
for the game no longer interested him. He saw a man holding
a pack of cards and got someone to set up his cap some ten
feet away. Then, sitting up in bed, he flicked the cards at the
hat. It seemed wonderful how many he could put in the hat.
Twice as many as the others who tried. They clapped their
admiration. The official in the corner smiled indulgently at the
card-flicking. Whenever Michael looked over, this man was
looking his way.


Michael now, surrounded by the patients in bed, and those
sitting and standing near him, the centre of a team of good-natured

[p. <i>64</i>]

"Who's the gunman over there?" he asked, nodding his head
towards him, "He looks like one of Al Capone's torpedoes. A
gangster from Sicily most likelySissy Torpedo." Too late,
he realized from the man's face, the remark had been taken in
the sense of effeminacythe orderly, embarrassed and angry,
shifted his feet, and glared back at Michael with unblinking
hatred.


Some men walked by, naked, to take a shower in the wash-room,
whereupon Michael, forgetting the orderly, made a
running commentary on their physiques. His remarks sailed
through the air at them like rubber balls. A ball struck the first
one: "Round shoulders," and a second one: "Too fat." Then
he paused and threw another: "Knock-kneed," and just as the
last man reached the wash-room door he hit him neatly: "Under-slung."
The admiring troupe howled with laughter and the
official broke into a hilarious smile.


Continuing, Michael launched into Italian, and they thought
he must have great learning. One asked him if he spoke French
and he replied he could only read it. "He says he read French,"
he heard repeated in admiring tones to someone who had missed
it. And their wonder grew that one small head could carry all
he knew. Of a sudden he sang, with complete confidence and
genuine enthusiasm, urging them to sing with him. So infectious
was his wish that they all joined in, and the ward was aroar with
their voices. He was teaching them the <i>Song of the Mutts</i> when
an orderly came and asked him civilly to stop. Disarmingly he
complied.


The ward which had become noisy and turbulent under
Michael's influence was changing to quiet and there was a sense

[p. <i>65</i>]

The abrupt taking-hold of discipline seemed to him like a
paralytic seizure of the military corpus. He brooded about it.
The lower classes of England were always being told to do
something against their will. This was an example. They wanted
to laugh and talk, and they were told to stop. Why did they
stop? Why? For centuries the upper class gave orders and the
lower class meekly obeyed. The boss class kept to themselves
not only wealth and education but the means to wealth and
education, and the continuing right to give orders. The lower
class was a creation of the upper classborn swindled. Why,
when they were so numerous, did the poor ones submit?
Breaking the silence, he called out:


"Why do you submit? Why do you obey? They tell you
to hold your tongue and you do. They say Move and you
move. They say Stop and, yes, you stop. <i>They</i> order and <i>you</i>
obey. Why do you? There are millions of you. You outnumber
the ones who order a hundred to one. Which of you will stand
up to them? Who will stand with me?"


There was no answer in the awkward silence, but a strange
man, as if to show his sympathy by a literal acceptance of the
challenge, rose out of his bed and, without saying a word,
walked over to stand by Michael. Michael gave him a look of
approval, but saw he was deranged in some way. An orderly
came over and led the man back.


"Is there no other one of you will say he is with me?" Michael
demanded. For a while the silence was unbroken.


"I'm with you," said a quiet voice, and he saw not far from

[p. <i>66</i>]

"Is he the only one?" he asked, glancing slowly over every
part of the ward. "The <i>only</i> one?"


There was no answer.


He looked again at his single adherent. That kind of face he
had seen before. Was it Lawrence of Arabia? Eyes that stared
out danger. No, Lawrence was dead. He made him a gesture
of acknowledgment and turned to the others.


"Don't you see," he asked in the silence, "that if you had
just half your number stand up you would not be slaves anymore?"


Now, as inexplicably, there was noise again, perhaps the
inspecting party had left the ship. The deranged man watched
him anxiously, without speaking. He seemed to be trying to
convey a message, maybe a warning to Michael.


A plump, snub-nosed man came over to him.


"Wotcha trying to do, cock?" he said in a tone of insult.
"The 'ole lot of us might be docked our fags or something,
creatin' the way you was. You ought to 'ave yer 'ead read."


"You can say that agine, mite," put in another, "'Oo do you
think you are, anyway? A bleedin' agitator or something?"


Other voices chimed in: "'Es barmy, that's what he is! Why
do you obey? 'e says. If 'e wasn't in bed they'd fg soon
show 'im!"


"If I wasn't in bed you wouldn't talk to me like that,"
Michael answered.


"'Ark at that, would yer, an' 'oo do you think <i>you</i> are? You're
no better than what we are. You've just got less sense, that's
what."


More voices assailed him from every side. "Fancy 'is spoutin'
like that!" "E needs a proper gaggin 'e does."

[p. <i>67</i>]

Through the faces Michael could still see the sympathetic
eyes of the strange man, willing him help. Another voice said:
"I've seen your lot before, an' proper bloody trouble-makers
they was too."


The angry faces were all around him, like fiends around a
man in hell. Their voices spat at him. His nerves flared.


"I thought you were Englishmen," he cried, "I thought you
liked fair play."


"Leave 'im alone," someone called out. "Aye," said another,
and there was a murmur all round, some still angry and some
saying to leave him alone.


An orderly came up, a tall, bony-faced man, with a look of
suspect kindness on his face.


"We're moving you to a quieter plice," he said. He was taken
out of the sea of faces, up a stairway to a higher deck, along a
passage with several turnings, and into a ward with empty
beds. Here they deposited him, gave him pills, and put him
to sleep.


Waking was like having a bandage slowly removed from his
face.


It was a grey day and the ship was heaving slightly. Through
the port-hole he saw the distant sky but not the sea. His bed was
flanked on the left by two empty beds, and there was unoccupied
space behind him and more in front. To the left were the port-holes
and to the right a wide shelf. Facing him at the end of
the room was a book-case, and beside it a cabinet with the word,
printed in large letters, MEDICINE. High at the left was an
electric fan. At the right end corner, beside the book-case, was

[p. <i>68</i>]

The bulkheads and ceiling were made of iron, there were
iron posts supporting the ceiling. The beds were iron, with iron
flaps that could be raised to prevent patients rolling out. Across
the bulkheads were, at wide intervals, rows of iron bolts; the
ceiling had hundreds of iron studs staring down at him.


He heard the ship's engine and the sound of water in the
pipes, and the whirring of the fan, and other sounds hard to
identify.


He was hungry.


A man dressed as an orderly appeared in the doorway. He
instantly disliked him. He was large, fat, and obscene, wore
glittering glasses, and had about him something both womanish
and brutal.


"Where am I?" Michael asked him.


The answer came in a latrine voice, through wet lips.


"You're in the mental ward."


A shame and anger mounted in him with the blood accompanying
them. For a moment he did not speak, then, his eyes
glowing with danger, he ordered him:


"Get me the doctor."


The orderly looked at him with slow insolence, made a
sucking noise with his tongue, and slowly, slowly, went out.


The doctor came in. He had yellowish hair, and a sickly,
white complexion. He walked up to Michael's bed and asked
him, with a false smile, in a sordid voice, what he wanted.


Michael said in a tone of slow, dangerous accusation: "Was
it your doing I was brought in here?"


"Why, yes," said the doctor, a queer smile on his lips.


Michael rose high up in the bed, more than his leg should
have allowed him. He was superhuman for a moment. He

[p. <i>69</i>]

"How dare you, you ... beetle!"


With fear the doctor shrank and stumbled backwards through
the doorway.


Christ! was he captured by perverts? Was this how they
treated a Canadian officer, a V.C.?


He lay in smouldering anger, his face puckered up fiercely.
Whom could he appeal to? There must be a commanding officer
of the ship. The fat orderly came back into the ward. His glasses
glittered in Michael's direction, then he crossed and adjusted the
fan so that it blew towards the passage side of the ward. Here
he laid out a uniform on the shelf and began ironing. He
whistled and hummed the while.


Michael said, "Who's the C.O. of this ship?"


The orderly slowly turned and regarded him, but did not
answer.


Don't you know?" Michael said scornfully, hoping to make
him answer.


"It doesn't matter if I know or not, it don't concern you one
little bit."


"I have a right to speak to the commanding officer and it's
your duty to inform the doctor in charge."


"I'm sure 'e don't want to see the likes of you. I'll lay a bet
on that."


"We'll see about that," Michael said.


"What's that?" asked the orderly, pretending not to hear.


"We'll see how much of your insolence I have to put up
with."


"You'll see more than you bargained for, that's what." The
fat voice held a tone of dire relish.


Patience with this pig! If the worst came to the worst his
own men would rescue him. Perhaps at this very moment there

[p. <i>70</i>]

Someone touched his shoulder and he saw there were new
orderlies in the room. They were bringing him food. They sat
him up and placed a tray before him. On a plate was fish with
slices of buttered bread. It was odd but there was no knife or
fork. Possibly this could be accounted for by the rough conditions
on board ship. It fitted in with everything else he had
so far experienced. He noticed the orderlies were less brutal
than the fat man; one of them, indeed, was, as it were, too kind:
he had a look of almost sickly benevolence. "Eat up, now," he
said to Michael, as a father speaks to a dear little boy.


"Thank you," Michael replied coldly, and then prided himself
on the elegance with which he ate with his fingers.


After eating, and drinking tea which came later, he withdrew
into himself. He thought of the fish they had eaten after that
tremendous march at the English cadet school. Sixty miles across
the moors of Yorkshire, for the second day, after an equal
distance the first. They started out, and the instructor pointed
to the most distant mountainCaptain Taylor, the former
boxing championand said, "When you reach it you will be
half-way." "Half-way home, sir?" asked someone with reckless
facetiousness. "No, half-way there!" in a thunderous voice.
Then, walking alone was tiring, but when he met Ricketts and

[p. <i>71</i>]

Always the three of them in adventurehe on his left side,
he on his right. Fighting, duelling, drinkinghe on his left
side, he on his right.


Again he was wakened, lights were on, and he saw the port-holes
were black with night. Outside, the sea was all black.
"Take these," said the too-kind orderly, and the others were
all good-humoured and laughing. He did so and felt a pain,
like a blow at the back of his neck, and, just remembering the
jolly laughter, he was unconscious.


He woke in a different place. There was no bed, he was lying
on the floor, except for a round rubber tube which protected a
bed sore on his spine. It would have been entirely dark but for
a small gleam of light which came from a slot high in front of
him. He felt the floor and the wallsthe first had a rubbery
touch; the walls were soft, yet firm, like the canvas-covered
mats in gymnasiums. Ah! this was kind. At last they were
looking after him. No matter if it stormed and the ship rolled
violently he would be protected in this cushioned place. His
foot, in its rigid, unchanging prison, was hurting rather sharply,
but he could bear it patiently, since he felt relieved in his mind
at the sign of official care. All the same, as the hours passed, he

[p. <i>72</i>]

Despite his strength, Michael was puzzled.


He asked him, "How could you lift me so easily?"


He answered almost apologetically, "You don't weigh an
ounce more than seven stone."


"Seven stone! Why, I was a hundred and sixty pounds."


"It's that gangrene I expect."


It seemed extraordinary but it must be so ... He liked this
man. He belonged to the same tribe as the Caserta orderlies,
and he sensed in him a fearless, generous spirit. Not only that,
he seemed to relish the comic aspect of his awesome physique,
the royal deference paid by all.


"Did you play rugby, I mean rugger for England?"


"You're dead right, mate, fly half."


"And you box?"


"Yes, box, wrestle, skiany kind of a game is meat and
drink to me."


"This is one hell of a game we're on now?"

[p. <i>73</i>]

He laughed and shook his head, "Oh, yes, but it's getting
over. I hear you fellows have them on the run."


"Yes, we have," He smiled, pleased to hear someone acknowledge
he came from the fighting men, "Another year will fix
them."


Two other orderlies came in with breakfast. The first was
well-built, frank-looking; the other, one of those remarkably
self-possessed, incisive men who seem, without being at all
typically English, to be products only of England. They called
the athlete Shawan.


Here were three men he liked and admired at once, allies on
the ship's journey. The first one spoke little, just smiled his
friendliness. The incisive one made Michael laugh with dry jokes
and gestures. Before he left with the others after breakfast, he
gave Michael a Weight, which he thereupon smoked with
profound appreciation.


Later in the morning Michael heard two voices in the corridor
outside  they must be young doctors.


"Yes, old boy, but why the antipathy? I mean you don't
just take a scunner to the good old medical corps for nothing."


"Well, evidently he's had something to gripe about. He was
a cadet from the Canadian army in England, and when he was
at O.C.T.U. he went to hospital with pneumonia and some ass
bunged him into the T.B. ward by mistake, where he stayed
three weeks. Oh, and before that, the day before he got the
pneumonia, some other ass at a medical pronounced him A.I.
and fit to go on battle drill. He thinks that's how he got
pneumonia."


"Probably did, too, I should think."


"Yes, so you see he probably thinks all English doctors are
either half-wits or criminals."

[p. <i>74</i>]

The other laughed. "I don't know what we can do, we can't
have him raving at us in front of the orderlies."


"No, quite, perhaps we'd better wait a bit to see if he quiets
down."


The voices receded and he couldn't hear the reply.


Michael was puzzled. They had the facts right, but had they
heard him raving about doctors? He couldn't remember doing so.
It was curious.


He turned his thoughts to the good orderlies and spoke aloud,
though he was quite alone.


"A wounded soldier needs reassurance, he needs men about
him who assure him by what they are that people are worth
fighting for. A good man is an acceptable apology for the
human race. Surround a soldier with men, not rats, that is his
great need. He ..."


An irritable voice spoke through the wall:


"Why don't you say I, not he, you mean I ..."


It was true, perhaps  he was always saying what other people
needed, perhaps it <i>was</i> hypocritical. I'll say I and my in future,
he said to himself.


The fat orderly came just inside the doorway, holding the
arm of someone. He pointed Michael out, and the dark face of
Sissy turned towards him. He put his foot upon the stoop and
stared. His face was very dark, and not even his eyelids moved.
These orderlies never spoke; they may have been ordered not
to provoke him or else they feared his criticism would get them
into trouble. Michael stared back but his blood raced and his
mouth went dry before the hatred of the other. Sissy looked
away, and all about the room, then once more stared at Michael,

[p. <i>75</i>]

Waking up in the dark little room where they put him at
night so he would be safe  it was probably in the very centre
of the ship so that if a torpedo struck her he would be unhurt 
waking up there, Michael was all alert and energetic. He wanted
to get out  it would be quite a stunt to break out with a foot
like his. If he could get to the slot, break the glass and reach
through, maybe he could turn the handle from the outside. He
must first work over to the door.


His foot hurt and his spine was sensitive from the bed sore
but he felt so strong he could ignore both. With great care he
tilted himself over on to the hip of his good leg and then, aching
and swearing, crept by inches to his goal. Flakes of plaster from
his cast broke off and as he powdered them in his hands he
thought of a hen-house. He became hilarious. Those mad Irish
people. He made up a dialogue, shouting it out in stage Irish.


"Patrick, will ye rouse herself, man, there's some great rascal
got into the hen-house murthering all the poor birds. <i>Patrick</i>,
will ye have us robbed of our bread an' butter under our very
noses?"


"Whisht, Bridget, will ye stop jabberin' at a man tryin' to
gain a little rest for his weary bones."


"It wasn't rest you were wanting half an hour gone with
you rollin' and jouncin' all over your wife fit to break the bed
down. Come on, lad, take yer shillelagh and knock his head off."


"Ka-ka-ka chuck-chuck-chuck-chuck ka-ka-ka-ka."

[p. <i>76</i>]

"Hurry, Patrick, there's still one livin'."


"By all the saints, does a man niver have a moment he isn't
bein' plundered by his brother? I'll take the gun and blow him
into the next wor-r-r-ld."


"Chuck-chuck-k-k-kaaaaa."


"Before God, he's killed 'em all. Come out now, ye foul
heathen, so I kin blast ye sky-high. Begod, there's no one in
the place at all, but he's got two of the pore birds. I'll follow
him into the wood ..."


"Rory! By the bowels of St. Peter, was it you torturin' our
pore creatures, an' what are ye doin' <i>here</i>, ye scamp?"


"Ssh, Bridget, ye haven't forgotten yer Rory that used to
roll ye in the hay in the old days?"


"Are ye mad, Rory, if himself comes in he'll kill ye sure!"


"Himself is half a mile away, darlint, looking for me in the
wood. Have ye no kindness left in yer heart for me? You that
used to be so ... so ... so."


"Ah, Rory, it's like the old days for sartin, I feel like I'm
on me back in the haystack again, ah, begorra, yer a bold man
to come ..."


"Bang!"


"Patrick, ye've killed me! Oh  h!"


"And now, Rory, will ye be so kind as to tell me where ye
hid them two hens ye stole out of the coop?"


There had been continuous laughter outside which stopped

[p. <i>77</i>]

Thud!


The door was struck forcibly from the outside, and the vibrations
shocked him into silence. He heard a muttering, like
the sound of an animal, but could not make out the words.
Then there was a giggle and he recognized that it was the fat
orderly replying.


"I bet you do. But not 'ere."


The muttering continued until both voices faded down the
passage.


A menace existed at the edge of his mind but he soon forgot it
and addressed himself to the grim task of escape. He panted and
cursed as he dragged his aching body to the door. It was something
to get out of there. Bit by bit he advanced himself, every
foot was like advancing five miles. Nearer, nearer he got. He
rested, sweating all over in his pyjamas, his legs behind him.
He touched the door with his hand and painfully pulled his
legs up to him. He rested again and then tried the ascent. All
he had to do was stand. He got so high he could grasp the slot
if he knelt on his good knee. Now he put both hands on the
slot and, with a mighty heave, raised himself almost level, then
fell down, his cast bouncing crazily on the floor. Again he tried,
again he fell. For hours he kept it up. At last, balancing on the
rubber tube, he hoisted himself high enough to actually stand
for a minute on his right foot, and look through the slot, seeing
just the empty passage. Then he fell and was exhausted so he
could scarcely move. Only his will kept going, his body refused
to respond. His will was soon overcome also when he just
closed his eyes in weariness and sleep.


He awoke in a different place, he seemed to be on a higher

[p. <i>78</i>]

It was useful to him that some of the orderlies, like Shawan
and his men, were trained in unarmed combat. It meant that he
could increase his skill in this kind of fighting, even while he
lay in bed. Apart from this he could be thinking of new ways
to improvise weapons that chanced to be around him. The bedclothes,
he now thought, the blankets even, could be used on
the principle of the net, to immobilize an opponent, as the
gladiators did it. Any object which was high enough and loose
enough to be lifted could be used either to strike or to paralyze
a foe, even this rickety table beside him, with its criss-cross
legs. With one hand he flipped the table on its side, against the
bed, and pressed the legs flat. Looked at now, it was a large,
cornered discus, an inch high, and almost three feet square. Why,
you could cut off a man's head with that. Outside, he could
hear someone climbing a stairway to his cabin. They'd like this!
Just for fun, he'd give this orderly a scare. The footsteps came
to the top, there was a sound of panting, and the door was
pushed slowly open. He grasped the table with his right hand
across his body; a voice began to speak, and just at this moment,
as a head appeared round the door, Michael, with prodigious
strength, flung the discus at a point just off the target. There it
smashed in large pieces, while the orderly, frightened and
swearing, rushed back, and half fell down the gangway. Michael
raised his head and roared with laughter. He thought he
recognized the man now: it was the tall, bony orderly.


Oh, Christ, what an iron nightmare!

[p. <i>79</i>]

Strong, ugly steel girder-posts; steel walls, bolted in vertical
rows. Metal ceiling with hundreds of studs. The bed-rails a
double square of steel bars. Varnished wood book-case, painted
wood cabinet  hardwood with a brittle crust of paint. Harsh,
disciplinary, utilitarian. Hideous concourse of iron and iron
wood  an iron nightmare.


He heard a slight sound and saw the tall, bony orderly duck
his head at the lintel and enter the room. He walked with his
head forward and his long arms swinging. Near the bed he
towered above Michael and looked down at his neck  his hands
at close range seemed almost freakish because of their great size
and ridged knuckles  then he passed out of his sight and
stopped behind him. In silence he stood there a long minute.
Then he loped by the bed and out into the corridor.


At night he dreamt that as he lay in a pool of blood his
enemies came for him. They were incarnations of the cruelty
and malice he had detested throughout his life. It was the sorest,
most desperate struggle he had ever fought and he survived
only by the help of some superhuman power.


All was black in the stronghold except at the high slot where
there shone an orange light. All black otherwise. The effort of
will, even in a dream, of righting these men had exhausted him,
and he slept only fitfully, lying in the corner against a rubber
tube. In the times of waking he thought only of sad things, like
Alec Fraser's seeking out Tom's grave on a hill in Italy; and
when he dreamed again, it was of many years before, and he
was saying the good-bye to Ruth that would always be an unhealing
wound in his memory.

[p. <i>80</i>]

No night had seemed so long to him ... When Shawan
opened the door and flooded the daylight in, he was overcome
with thankfulness.


In his ward, the sun shone with a happy splendour, and the
air that came in from the open port-holes was charged with
the fresh invigorating smell of the salt waves. All this acted as
a drug on his famished senses, and he exclaimed like a child:


"Oh, oh, oh, how beautiful!"


And a woman's voice, clear and sympathetic, came distinctly
through the iron partition, saying: "Isn't it wonderful how he
likes the sun!"


This day, so splendid! He breathed the salt air in through
his nostrils, shutting his eyes pleasurably in the sunshine,
hugging to himself the happy feeling he had.


He revelled in the day, until he was reminded by a goading
inner voice that there was little time left, and that he must think
out the policy of a guerrilla force in the north. He would strike
at the soft white core of a regular army, deep inside its own
lines, where a small number of men could wreak havoc. Think
how one man in a quarter-hour, pouring acid down gun barrels,
could take a regiment out of battle. This was not the large-scale
commando raid; it was simultaneous sabotage by individuals
at a thousand points.


He felt very drowsy in the warm sunshine and nodded his
head, and slept.


He woke in mid-afternoon, nearly slipping out of bed, holding
tightly to the steel pole of the spring. A feeling of queaziness

[p. <i>81</i>]

The pain from the bed-sore on his spine and the pain from
his riddled foot afflicted him, and he vomited from nausea. He
seemed to realize his human predicament, too, and felt the need
of human contact. It was awful to be alone in this teetering
dreariness, with pain rasping him like a razor blade. Was it not
very strange that anyone should be left like this, not to speak
of a V.C.? To let him lie alone in such dreadful misery! It was
very strange ... in fact shouldn't he protest the dishonour of
it? As he thought of the fat orderly and the tall thin one, he
got suddenly very angry and clenched his teeth and banged his
fist against the iron bed.

[p. <i>82</i>]

"I'll fight one and all you scum," he shouted out, blood
heating his cheeks.


"I'll teach you to leave a V.C. like this!" He reached the
peak of rage. "Come down here and see what one man will do
to you!" The last words were shrieked.


Behind him he heard a medley of voices coming through the
bulkhead, and a gramophone began to play from this place.
When the record was finished, it was begun again at full volume
and repeated continuously.


In the gray afternoon he lay with his neck exposed, staring
at the studded ceiling, which canted loosely. There were shouted
threats behind him and a sound of running feet.

