Transcript of Audio File:
______________________________________________________________________________
BEGIN TRANSCRIPT:
CLIENT: I like double checked probably two different times to make sure it was really working.
THERAPIST: Right. I do believe it's working. And so I just have to - so you're J for their...
CLIENT: Oh, okay.
THERAPIST: ...circumstances. It's J and its February 20, 2012. Now we get to be normal.
CLIENT: Yeah, I know. I forget that that's there.
THERAPIST: Yeah.
CLIENT: [Laughter]
THERAPIST: So you went away this weekend and that's all I know so far.
CLIENT: Yeah. So it was nice to get...
THERAPIST: How has the anxiety been?
CLIENT: I feel like that has been good. And I surprised myself a little bit too, just kind of anticipating like the baby coming and everything too that we had a childbirth class. And we went to...
THERAPIST: Okay, because you had signed up for that when I saw you last time. You hadn't gone.
CLIENT: Yeah. And we actually - we had to reschedule because I had like a little - I needed to go in to get checked out. It wasn't a big deal at all, but I needed to make an appointment last weekend, so we just rescheduled. So we went this past weekend.
THERAPIST: And you had done the tour.
CLIENT: We did the tour, yes. So now we've done the hospital tour and we just did this all-day class on Saturday. It was from 9:30 to 4:30. [00:01:03]
THERAPIST: That's a long time.
CLIENT: So finally we're not quite sure like, you know, what to expect.
THERAPIST: Right.
CLIENT: And when we had signed up like more than a month ago, I remember signing up and thinking like I wonder how I'll be feeling? And like if I'm going to be kind of worried about labor and talking about it for eight hours is that going to make me nervous too. And it was actually a really good experience. Like I feel like it actually instead of making me like think more about it and be just a little more anxious about it, I feel like it's made me feel more calm about it, at least for now which is good.
THERAPIST: And that's great.
CLIENT: By just getting more information and I feel like now that we've done the hospital tour and we can kind of visualize it all, and now to have walked through it all.
THERAPIST: Maybe the unknown is what makes it so anxiety provoking?
CLIENT: yeah.
THERAPIST: So as you get little pieces of information that you can kind of cling to; what the place looks like; get some information about what the stages of labor, I mean how they might present. [00:02:00]
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: Like having information at your hands makes it a little bit less uncertain.
CLIENT: Right.
THERAPIST: And still, I mean you can't obviously predict exactly when, but we still have more of an idea what...
CLIENT: Of just what to anticipate. And it worked out nicely because the nurse who ran the class was a nurse from Elliot Women's &amp; Children's which like just happened to be a coincidence.
[Crosstalk]
So that was kind of nice.
THERAPIST: So now you have a sense of like a real person that might...
CLIENT: Yeah, and she was cute. She was like you try to find me. Like I don't know if I'd ever get to have you as a patient, but you can have me like paged and I'll come and find you too. So that was a good feeling too.
THERAPIST: Oh, and just to get a sense of obviously if this is the kind of person that's working there that that's kind of the environment.
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: Open and friendly.
CLIENT: Yeah, so that was really - it was nice. And then we got to see my best friend who lives down on the Cape. They came up on Sunday I guess for brunch. So I feel like we've gotten to some really good friends who both have babies too.
THERAPIST: Oh, okay.
CLIENT: And just like kind of talking more about their stories. [00:03:01]
THERAPIST: And they're still alive? They made it through?
CLIENT: Exactly. And I feel like after that class now we have like the specific questions. Like Todd was asking; because we went to stay with his, like one of his best friends last night and he was like so, you know, like what did you did to make her feel better? Like what are some techniques.
And then I was asking my friend, I'm like when exactly did you get your epidural and like we have like more specific questions but it's been nice to talk to our friends and people to anticipate a little more too.
THERAPIST: And you'll just, I mean, you're not going to be a different person.
CLIENT: Right.
THERAPIST: So the things that typically worked to help soothe are going to work. I mean, you know, you - I think, you know, it makes sense, like getting information made you feel better because that fits with your personality.
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: You like to know stuff. You're obviously very educationally focused, so you're probably going to be asking the nurses questions.
CLIENT: Right.
THERAPIST: And you're probably going to feel soothed by getting so answers and seeing, you know, readout of yep, the baby's heart rate is fine and this is the stage I'm at. And those things are probably, you know, information that's very soothing to you. [00:04:04]
CLIENT: Mm-hmm, yeah.
THERAPIST: That's not going to automatically change the moment you go into labor.
CLIENT: Right, yeah. Yeah, so overall I feel like that has been nice. And now it's just like that funny balance too of being so excited too now that at the end of this month I guess they say, you're like full - or the end of this week.
THERAPIST: You're full term.
CLIENT: Full term. So yeah, it's been fun to just...
THERAPIST: And I mean I know that you can't have the baby until your mom comes home.
CLIENT: Exactly.
THERAPIST: Even if you did go into labor this week, that baby is perfectly well developed in there.
CLIENT: Right, yeah. We had a...
[Crosstalk]
THERAPIST: The only thing it does between now and whenever you give birth is get bigger.
CLIENT: Just get bigger, right.
THERAPIST: All the parts are fully formed.
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: You know you've had a very healthy pregnancy all the way through.
CLIENT: So it's been - it's a nice feeling. We have another appointment on Friday and the baby is head down.
THERAPIST: Oh perfect.
CLIENT: And she's guessing the baby is around like 5-1/2 pounds right now, so that's just reassuring too, to know.
THERAPIST: Right, that things seem to be happening the way that - that's why they (inaudible at 00:05:05)
CLIENT: Right, yeah. So all of that...
THERAPIST: You've done a very good job.
CLIENT: Yeah, we've done a good job growing this baby so far. So that I feel like has been really good.
And I feel like other than that, it's funny. I was just saying to Todd like just a couple of days ago, I was like I feel like this has been like a really good two weeks. I don't even know like what it is that I'll to - like what's going to be - there's always one thing I think of.
And then there was the one thing. I was sleeping so well and everything and I should have seen this coming. But we have for a workshop that I'm in, we all take turns submitting papers to get feedback on and then one person is the discussant, so they kind of like summarize their comments and then open it up to the group. So I'm going to be the discussant for this paper.
That's happening on Tuesday. And I guess the woman - and I don't really...
THERAPIST: Tomorrow?
CLIENT: Tomorrow, yeah. And usually like the discussant just kind of comes to class and gives their feedback and then we start the conversation. [00:06:07]
THERAPIST: And it's one particular person's paper that you're discussing?
CLIENT: Exactly.
THERAPIST: Okay.
CLIENT: And everyone else has read that paper too.
THERAPIST: Okay.
CLIENT: I'm just going to take the lead and like open the conversation.
THERAPIST: Lead it?
CLIENT: Yeah. And I don't really know who this woman is. Because it's funny like the class is - some of us are regulars but then sometimes people might be interested in the paper topic, so outsiders come in.
THERAPIST: Okay.
CLIENT: So I'm not quite sure who she is, and I guess she's from Brazil and isn't English language learned. So she wanted to get my comments ahead of time so she could like have them typed up, which I totally understand.
And I feel like especially for me like as a person, like a special educator and I work with lots of English language learners, I can totally understand her.
THERAPIST: Understand that she needs more time to - yeah.
CLIENT: But she e-mailed me wanting them by Friday and it's not until tomorrow. So I was thinking like oh, I'll be good and I'll e-mail them to her like Monday. And the end of the week the way my schedule is just so... [00:07:06]
THERAPIST: You're very tired at the end of the week.
CLIENT: ...busy at the end of the week. And so I stayed after class on Friday and I stayed at the library until maybe like seven to just try and see if I could finish it. But I wanted to do a nice job.
THERAPIST: Right.
CLIENT: Like people are good about taking their time and giving really good feedback, so I didn't finish. And I just e-mailed her when I got home, because I also - Todd had made dinner. Like, I didn't want to be working on it into the night on a Friday night.
And I e-mailed her when I got home and was just like I didn't quite finish. But then we had that childbirth class all day so I knew I wouldn't really get them to her.
THERAPIST: Right.
CLIENT: Yeah. And I was like I guess I'll just do the best that I can. And it wasn't like we don't really even have - we have a professor who kind of facilitates it, but it wasn't like the professor told me he needed to get my comments.
So I e-mailed her thinking that would make me feel better and not like guilty about like not getting them. And then I did have trouble sleeping that night just thinking like...
THERAPIST: That she was going to be upset. [00:08:02]
CLIENT: Yeah. And it was funny.
THERAPIST: Were you more worried that she would be upset that she didn't get it or that you had...
CLIENT: Yeah. I think, and it was funny I was like; I'm feeling guilty like that I'm disappointing this woman. And I was like I don't even know who she is, like I can't even picture her face.
THERAPIST: Mm-hmm.
CLIENT: But I think I was just like sensing that she was anxious about receiving my comments.
THERAPIST: And you didn't want her to be anxious.
[Crosstalk]
CLIENT: Yeah, so that - I didn't get a very sleep that night. But then we went off to our class and then when we came home I was like I just need to finish this. Like I just - and it was later and we were kind of tired from the day.
THERAPIST: Yeah, that's a long day being on and taking in information.
CLIENT: Yeah. So I just like forced myself to do it. And then I was like I also kind of anticipated knowing to be very careful about the comments I was writing because I figured I was like knowing me, I'll like finish them, send it off to her, and like should be able to breathe a sigh of relief.
But then I'll go back and think like is there anything I might have worded in a way that might like hurt her feelings or that like sounded more like a criticism instead of like nice feedback, you know, like constructive feedback. [00:09:11]
So I kind of like read it over one more time just too really make sure. Because I don't know her so I felt like that was like - I mean it was a little strange too. And I was able to just let it go.
Because I was thinking to myself, like I really don't want to be up now. I've already spent a night worrying about a stranger.
THERAPIST: Right.
CLIENT: I shouldn't one night - I was like I don't want to do it again, and I didn't, so that was good.
THERAPIST: So that was a success to be able to decided what you needed and put it away.
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: I mean there are two things going on in that. One is the issue of boundaries which we had talked about before with regard to that professor that you worked with.
CLIENT: Right.
THERAPIST: And you know this is another place where she was sort of asking for something that's a little bit above and beyond, and figuring out where your boundary was.
CLIENT: Right.
THERAPIST: And it sounds like, you know, you kind of played with that. Like you didn't want to spend the whole weekend working on it but you did stay really late on a day that you do have a really long day on Friday. [00:10:04]
CLIENT: Right, yeah.
THERAPIST: And kind of figuring out what feels right for you; what's asking for too much and what's, you know, being responsive.
And then the second piece is, you know, how much do you give up? How much do you allow yourself to kind of worry about something and take on somebody else's - take on responsibility for somebody else's feelings?
CLIENT: Right, yeah. So I think now it will be interesting to see how it goes on Tuesday.
THERAPIST: How do you feel with regard to like where you did set the boundary? And you didn't stay up until all hours Friday and you did go to your class. It's not like you missed something.
CLIENT: Right.
THERAPIST: How do you feel about where you put your...
CLIENT: I think I did - I think it was fine, because it wasn't like - like part of me was thinking should I just work, you know, into the night on Friday night and be able to actually send them to her on Friday, and I didn't do that.
Because Todd had had such a busy week, like we needed time to just like hang out I felt like too. So I'm glad that I didn't do that, but I do feel like - I knew it was silly for me to be worrying about it. Like it wasn't like a real deadline. [00:11:09]
THERAPIST: So you didn't do it but you did still worry?
CLIENT: I still worried about it, yeah.
THERAPIST: So the next piece of work is going to be how do you - once you decide what your boundary is, how do you let yourself be really okay with it? Because the worry tells me that you were still a little unsure of whether or not it was okay for you to say no, I'm not.
Even though she asked for them by Friday, I'm not giving them to her on Friday. There was a piece of you that was conflicted about that.
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: And I can sense it. And I mean one, the fact that it kept you up and two, as you describe why. Because Todd had made dinner and Todd had done this. It's like you're justifying it with his means, not really your own.
CLIENT: That's true.
THERAPIST: because you're not letting your own need be the most important enough to create that boundary and kind of find your (inaudible at 00:11:53). Okay, because Todd made dinner and it would have hurt his feelings if I had made dinner and he had had a really long day and he needed time, what about what you needed? [00:12:02]
CLIENT: What I needed; I know that's true. And I did need time to relax too.
THERAPIST: Of course you did, and that's completely valid.
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: And you're just not quite sure that's valid.
CLIENT: Right, I know. I know that's true that I can like, since Todd made dinner and he had a long week I should not do this. But I had a long week too.
THERAPIST: Yeah, and you deserve as much as anyone else to enjoy, you know, a nice dinner and some time off on a Friday night.
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: And I think that's going to be, you know, going in to motherhood, finding a way for you to accept that your needs are legitimate and valid and just as important - is an important piece because you're going to feel really pulled.
I mean the baby is going to have a lot of needs, Todd is still going to have needs, you know, your classmates won't have as many because I think it will be easier for you to kind of really put that aside when you're taking your leave.
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: But finding a way for you to determine what your needs are and to give yourself permission to meet them and recognize them is going to be important. [00:13:06]
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: Because it will be very easy to, you know, kind of push your own needs aside and get run down or get - or start to be resentful.
CLIENT: Yeah. Yeah, I think that's true that I - I don't know. Like I just did with Todd, like looking for - it's like something that kind of gets me what I want too. While I'll say it's because of Todd and then that works out well for me.
THERAPIST: What makes that easier?
CLIENT: I don't, I don't know. I guess because it's then thinking about him instead of thinking about myself.
THERAPIST: What's not okay about thinking about you?
CLIENT: Yeah, I don't know. There shouldn't be anything that isn't okay with that, but yeah. And I feel like sometimes I am good about making time for myself or like, you know, going for a walk or going to the gym or whatever. You know like that I can do that.
THERAPIST: Yeah, certainly. I mean you were able to incorporate - I think you made a lot changes in that area. [00:14:01]
You were able to incorporate going to yoga I mean, you know, and that's I think a big piece of self care.
CLIENT: Right.
THERAPIST: You know, finding what your needs are, making sure that you're meeting your needs so that you feel healthy.
CLIENT: Right.
THERAPIST: And finding I guess, we need to notice those times that for whatever reason it doesn't feel like enough or like your need to have some time off on a Friday night, why wasn't that valid enough to allow you to feel comfortable and saying I'm done working on this even though I'm done.
CLIENT: Right.
THERAPIST: Or even though she wants it.
CLIENT: Yeah. Yeah, and I think it was just the piece too like if it was just that she wanted it to have it, I don't think I would have felt as bad. But I think because I was - because I didn't really know her, but part of me was thinking like is me not sending here these comments on a Friday like making her really worry?
Like I just didn't know what that would do to here. Like I...
THERAPIST: Right, yep.
CLIENT: ...you know, so I think that that kind of made it worse it too, like trying to think like is my...
THERAPIST: Weighing her stress versus your stress? [00:15:00]
CLIENT: Yeah. And then I was like, but I don't even know who this is. So I'm weighing her stress against mine and I don't even know her.
THERAPIST: And I wonder if part of it also, because of the reason she was asking, you could really identify that and you respect the need of, you know, someone getting comments in a language that's not their first.
CLIENT: Yeah. Yeah, because I was thinking...
THERAPIST: You obviously respected that.
CLIENT: Right, even for me like as a teaching or a teaching fellow now at school like that would have been like a strategy I would have suggested to a student.
THERAPIST: Right, so she was...
[Crosstalk]
CLIENT: Right, I know. So it was like now I'm not following through on something I would have recommended too, you know. So I think there was different pieces of it like mixed in.
THERAPIST: We don't always get what we want.
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: Even thought it might be a perfectly valid request or a good idea that doesn't mean it's possible all the time.
CLIENT: Right, yeah.
THERAPIST: Well it sounds like you handled it, I think, you handled it really well. And if we were sort of nitpicking here, of where things could be more balanced for you. [00:16:00]
CLIENT: Yeah, yeah.
THERAPIST: I think it's important to recognize that, you know, it's not like you can - it's not like you were up for weeks on end worrying about it. I'm nitpicking at places where, you know, you can I guess solidify those kinds of skills.
CLIENT: Yeah, yeah. Because overall I do feel like it's been like since I've seen you it has been good.
THERAPIST: Yeah.
CLIENT: Because I feel like I would catch myself like sometimes when I wake up, because I'm always having to like pee or whatever, you know. Like it's so hard to find a comfortable...
THERAPIST: Yeah, at this point.
CLIENT: ...to even sleep and everything. I'll try to be really good about getting up and like not letting myself think, you know, and just going to the bathroom and get back into bed because that would be my time to like think of something that I could let myself stay up about. And so that's helped.
THERAPIST: And the fact that you can do that at this stage is I think a testament to how well you've done with developing good sleep habits. Because that's a really challenging thing actually, you know. [00:17:01]
CLIENT: Mm-hmm.
THERAPIST: At, you know, a month away from giving birth, clearly you're getting woken up in the middle of the night through no fault of your own.
CLIENT: Right.
THERAPIST: And being able to get yourself back to sleep, that's really, that's pretty impressive at this stage because it's all sorts of opportunities for things to be worried about.
CLIENT: Right.
THERAPIST: Or you could let come to the surface at that time.
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: And the fact that you can kind of tunnel vision them and let yourself get back to sleep is pretty impressive.
CLIENT: Yeah. It has felt...
THERAPIST: It's a big difference from where you were last year at the time.
CLIENT: Yes, yeah definitely.
THERAPIST: Do you want to take a few minutes to do relaxation at the end?
CLIENT: Yes. I know it was funny because we did little like breathing techniques at that class and I was saying to Todd, I'm like I will be a pro at this.
THERAPIST: Yes, you are a pro. You've got this practice. I just wanted to check; did we schedule for next time?
CLIENT: I don't think we have actually.
THERAPIST: Okay, so let's - and I know we're making guesses and who knows where you will be in two weeks.
CLIENT: I know. I was thinking about that on my way here. [00:18:00]
THERAPIST: So let's, you know, we'll pick a time and if you need to change it for whatever reason that's totally fine.
CLIENT: Okay.
THERAPIST: So two weeks from today would be Monday, March 5. And do you want to do the 10:30 again?
CLIENT: Sure, yeah that sounds good. Yeah, and we'll just see.
THERAPIST: We'll just see.
CLIENT: My mom will be home by then.
THERAPIST: So the 24-hour cancellation rule is sort of like off the books for you.
CLIENT: Okay good.
THERAPIST: For now, because you have a lot less control than most at this point.
CLIENT: Okay, good.
THERAPIST: All right, so let yourself get as comfortable as you can and just start to take some deep breathes and settle in to a rhythm that feels comfortable for you. And just start by mentally scanning your body, trying to notice any place that feels uncomfortable or tense. [00:19:05]
Think about breathing in to that spot, exhaling and letting go, relaxing anything that feels tense.
And during your next breath in, you're completely squeezing your eyes tightly shut, noticing where that brings tension to your face. Exhaling and releasing letting them remain gently closed, draining the tension from your face.
Your next inhale, clenching your teeth tightly shut, exhaling and relaxing your jaw, letting your teeth come apart, tension draining away. [Pause]
On your next breath in you can drop your chin down to your chest, noticing how that feels on your throat and your neck, letting your head float back up to a neutral position as you exhale, letting any tension drain out of your neck and your shoulders. [00:20:24]
And as you breath in you're going to bring your shoulders up towards your ears, noticing where that brings tension to your neck and your shoulders; your upper back. When you're ready, exhaling and letting them drop all the way down, tension draining out of your arms down your fingertips.
On the next inhale you're going to bring your hands towards your shoulders, flexing your bicep muscles. And as you exhale letting the hands drop all the way down; tension draining out of your arms. [00:21:03]
Making a tight fist on your next inhale, noticing the tension in your hands, your forearms, exhale and release.
On your next inhale you can think about tightening your stomach, just paying attention to that area. And then think about exhaling and relaxing and just letting the breathe flow over your belly.
On the next breath in you're going to bring your feel up off the floor and tighten your leg muscles, noticing where that brings tension. Exhale; let your feet drop all the way to the floor, relaxing your legs, thinking about letting the chair absorb all the weight of your body. [00:22:03]
On your next inhale pull in your toes back towards you, flexing your feet, noticing where that brings tension to your lower legs and your ankles, exhaling and letting your feet relax and letting your toes just flop wherever they want to go.
On the next breath in, you're going to point your toes down as if you're pressing on the gas for the brakes, noticing where that brings tension to your legs, exhaling and letting them relax once again.
Taking that mental scan of your body and noticing any place where there's tension, shifting however you need to let that remaining tension go. [00:23:00]
And letting your body remain relaxed, take notice of what's going on in your thoughts and let any thoughts just leave your head for now, knowing that important things will come back to you as necessary. But for now letting your mind and your body be clear of any kinds of tension.
And take a few more deep breaths, letting yourself memorize what it feels like to be relaxed, knowing that you can get back there any time you want. And at your own pace let yourself come back to the room.
How do you feel?
CLIENT: Good. I'm ready to go back to sleep.
THERAPIST: And go catch up. I noticed you're holding a little bit of tension in your legs.
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: So just something to be aware of.
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: Kind of, you know, when you relaxed like let yourself go and that might - practicing that will probably come in handy because I mean relaxing your pelvis, relaxing your legs is something that's really necessary in childbirth. [00:24:10]
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: And hard to do because sometimes when you - if, you know, you haven't had your epidural yet, if you're planning on one - it sounds like you are because you're asking questions.
CLIENT: I definitely want to keep it as an option. I think I probably will go with it.
THERAPIST: There's no shame in that.
CLIENT: Yeah. No, I'm not - I will not feel any shame.
THERAPIST: But, you know, if you haven't had your epidural yet and you have pain, sometimes people clench with pain.
CLIENT: yeah.
THERAPIST: And so just practicing now what it's like to really let go; letting your muscles relax, letting your thighs relax, letting your inner things relax and just open up can help to work against that because tension increases pain. And especially the pain of childbirth is all about tension and just muscle contractions.
CLIENT: Right.
THERAPIST: That's all it is. So the more you can relax your body in response to that, you know, the more comfortable you'll be.
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: So something to - you know usually I catch you holding tension here. [00:25:01]
CLIENT: I know, yes.
THERAPIST: And I just noticed that it was you were holding your legs pretty stiffly.
CLIENT: Yeah, I know because I usually am like needing to readjust them here too. But I was feeling good here. It might be these shoes.
THERAPIST: And sometimes it is. You know, this is laying - these chairs are not the most conducive. We don't have the perfect setup for doing relaxation, so that could totally be - and you're not in comfy jammies and things like that.
CLIENT: Right. Yeah, but that's true. That's good to remember.
THERAPIST: I mean that's just totally something you can practice any time you want during the day.
CLIENT: Right, yeah.
THERAPIST: Well if you're still pregnant, I will see you in two weeks.
[Laughter]
THERAPIST: If you're not and you're comfortable bringing the baby we'll, you know, you don't even have to let me know, it's fine, you guys can show up.
CLIENT: Perfect.
THERAPIST: And I will see you then.
CLIENT: Good.
THERAPIST: So for today it's $72.50; is that right.
CLIENT: Okay. So was that - it's usually...
THERAPIST: It's usually $82.50.
CLIENT: But this is because of the... [00:26:00]
THERAPIST: Right. So because we recorded, we can knock $10 off.
CLIENT: Nice.
THERAPIST: And that way you don't have to wait for like..
[Crosstalk]
CLIENT: That's great, like reimbursement or something.
THERAPIST: They just deal directly with me.
CLIENT: Great.
THERAPIST: And I will keep tabs.
END TRANSCRIPT
