<font size="4"><b>Chapter I: A Silver Image</b></font>

I am a "dry drunkard." In eighteen years I have had only
three drinks. That's the record of a sober man, but it does
not fool me, for I know that if I live to be as old as an
elephant I shall never be able to take a drink in safety.
However, the point is not that I am an alcoholic but that
I have recovered, that the compulsion to drink no longer
rides me, and that I, who was eighteen years ago a wreck
of a creature, fit only for the ash heap, hopeless myself,
and pronounced incurable by one physician after another,
have not only recovered my physical health, which was so
nearly destroyed, but have acquired peace of mind and
that successful adjustment to life for which I was struggling
so desperately through my inebriate years.


That this miracle should have happened to me is of no
particular significance to anyone but me and those who
suffered with me, but the fact that it has happened also to
a fair proportion of alcoholics is significant. There are at
least three and a half million of us in the United States,
according to the estimates of Dr. Howard W. Haggard,
Director of the Laboratory of Applied Physiology at
Yale Universitypeople who are constantly getting into
trouble through alcohol. Not intemperate drinkers who are
arrested occasionally for drunken driving, or lose time
from work to recover from a hang-overthese may or may
not be alcoholics. Records of courts and industries do not
differentiate between the man who runs into a truck after

[p. <i>4</i>]

Dr. Haggard makes his calculations from annual death
rates and the records of hospitals that admit chronic alcoholics.
Many but not all of these chronic drinkers are
abnormal drinkers hounded by an uncontrollable craving
for alcohol, alcoholics who are usually considered by their
friends and neighbors and all too often by their physicians
as "hopeless," just one step from the mental hospital
or the grave.


Normal temperate people avoid giving much thought
to alcoholism unless it is brought home to them sharply by
the addiction of someone near to them. They feel that
there is something shameful about it and are inclined to
hush it up, just as they concealed mental illness a half
century ago when "poor crazy Aunt Minnie" was locked
up on the top floor and everybody pretended she wasn't
there.


Those who are fighting to help a loved one try to hide
his condition, believing that their devotion and loyalty
will strengthen his will and help to "reform" him. They
pit his love for them against his craving for alcohol, only
to batter their emotions against his inconsistent cruelties.
Finally, they wash their hands and say he didn't care

[p. <i>5</i>]

But something can be done. At last medical science has
lifted alcoholism out of the category of moral weakness
and has begun to regard it as a disease. Physicians do not
yet understand it. They have not yet discovered why some
men become alcoholics and others, perhaps heavier drinkers,
do not. They do not know what temperaments are likely
to make compulsive drinkers, or what conditions predispose
one to addiction, although they are gathering statistics
and experimenting in these directions. Nor can they
claim that they have found a specific for alcoholism; the
sickness cannot yet be cured by surgery, or one of the
miracle drugs. But within the last decade science has made
long strides in understanding the progress of this vastly
complicated sickness, which attacks both the mind and the
body, and they have gone a long way toward arresting it.


It is estimated now that from 30 to 35 per cent of the
alcoholics who are treated by any of the half-dozen recognized
methods recover. This is a pitifully small proportion
and it need not be so low. It does not mean that the
other 65 per cent are hopeless; it means only that this 35
per cent happened to find the right method for them at
the moment when they were ripe for help. They are the
lucky ones. The facilities for help are so few and so inadequate
that a large proportion of the 65 per cent make one
or two attempts perhaps, but receive no help because they
try the wrong method for them, or do not try when they
are ready for it, and then perhaps have nowhere else to
turn.


I was one of the lucky few and, like all those who have
had a miraculous escape, I have an impulse to commemorate
it in some way. One person endows a hospital, another

[p. <i>6</i>]

For there is hope for the great majority of alcoholics,
hope that they may be reclaimed, that their anxieties and
neuroses may be overcome, and that their self-confidence
may be restored so that they can again be well-functioning
members of their world; hope for their desperate families,
who are trying to cope with a situation that they may understand
dimly with their hearts, but not with their minds.


It so happens that my work has given me the opportunity
to know about American medicine's attack on alcoholism.
When the Research Council on the Problems of
Alcohol was organizedthe society of eminent scientists
and a few public-spirited laymen which first began to
bring a detached, scientific point of view to this problem
I became a member. I watched the Yale Plan grow out
of it, lectured at the Yale School of Alcohol Studies, and
contributed articles to the <i>Journal of Studies on Alcohol</i>,
which was published by Yale. As a director of the National
Committee on Alcoholism I have seen the remarkable work
that this organization has done in giving the public an
understanding of the problem and it has been my privilege
to know many of the men who are accomplishing
things in the treatment of alcoholism, both in private sanitariums
and in the field of public health.

[p. <i>7</i>]

So I want to set down in easy-to-comprehend terms what
medicine now knows about this disorder, what remains to
be explored, and what has been achieved in the way of
treatment. This is a report to alcoholicsnot that fringe
which crowds the police courts and is the problem of the
state, or the psychopaths who have passed over the line of
sanity and are in another category, but that large majority
of alcoholics who still are, or have the possibility
of again becoming, acceptable members of society. It is
a report designed also for those who fear that they may
become alcoholics and for the friends and families of alcoholics,
who are bewildered and discouraged and want so
desperately to help. And it is especially directed to all
people who know that the index of our private health is
closely related to that of our public health and who are
concerned with making a safer, happier world.

