Transcript of Audio File:
______________________________________________________________________________
BEGIN TRANSCRIPT:
[00:00:30.8]
CLIENT: Hi.
THERAPIST: Come on in.
CLIENT: I was thinking more yesterday.
THERAPIST: Why?
CLIENT: The work things bother me, and I really couldn't come to any conclusions. But I think that's part of the fact I think that's just one aspect in many aspects of my life. But I also have a problem where, like I feel like I'm always running with the first thing like, I can't fathom why someone would do that. It seems like I have a hard time seeing ... I hate to do that. I have extra thought for I think, like everything. But I feel like sometimes I do, like in my thought processes, like, I do kind of rule out how it affects other people. And so I'm... If that doesn't happen then it really bothers me. And I don't know if some of it ties into people not being, or doing what I want them to do, and that's why it aggravates me? But I think it goes kind of beyond that.
And I don't know why I feel like I can't say something, or when I do, like I feel like it just doesn't come out right. And then I'm better just, like, not saying anything or just doing it. [00:02:03.3]
THERAPIST: How do mean not coming out right?
CLIENT: Like when I, if I was to like, "Hey guys, I, you know, I would like to close two days a week too, it's only fair." I think that that's an okay thing to say, but as I'm saying it I feel like it's coming across completely rude, or it's not going to be received well. Like, in my head it sounds nasty, you know. But I know I'm saying it in like a fair tone.
Like I said something in a meeting, and after I said it I felt horrible, but that was like, it was such an extreme situation I felt like I had to say something? Basically, like, people weren't going to training. Other people that kind of back us up were going to be out. It was potentially only going to be me running the whole office for a week, with 100 people. Like that would never, ever fly under any other circumstances.
So I said, "(inaudible at 00:02:55.9), I'm going to be alone during this. Do you look like you have any other support?" And I kind of went into some things. But as I was saying it, I was like, "I really shouldn't be saying this." I felt horrible. But really it was a legitimate concern and I just, I don't know, I have a hard time speaking up. [00:03:16.4]
THERAPIST: Well you feel angry, so I think you're worried that that will come across.
CLIENT: Right. Yeah. And I think that happens a lot. Because like I'll ask for feedback sometimes when I do speak up, and everybody will be, "No, you sounded fine." But in, again, my head I think it gets to the point where I'm speaking up because I'm so either angry or annoyed, that I feel my speaking up is coming across like it's showing my defenses. I'd love to get a place where I could speak up maybe before I felt that. Really it's okay to speak up. [00:04:00.1]
Like even this morning is a great example. It's the ongoing shower battle with my roommates. And one of them has a boyfriend who stays over almost every night, and that's fine until it comes to the morning routine. So one of the roommates gets ready, like, much later and so she's like, it doesn't matter. But I could wake up at like 6:20 to 6:30 and be okay. But since you have both of them showering, instead I have to wake up extra early, because it's not like I can just wait 10 minutes for one. It is like I have to wait for both of them. So sometimes I found myself waking up at like 5:50 so I can beat them to the shower, or shower and be done so they can have their normal routine.
So then I'm like, "Hey, he doesn't live here. Why do I have to wake up a half an hour early so he can shower?" And a couple of times I've said like, "You know, I wake up really early some day to not ruin your routine, but maybe we can take turns because I don't think that I have to wake up at 5:50 every day when really I wake up at 6:20 or 6:30." And they're like, "Okay." But like it never happens, and then I feel – I feel like I get so annoyed that I feel like saying something nasty. [00:05:17.1]
Like this morning I was all disgruntled, because I was getting up and thinking, "I could have another half an hour of sleep." Why do they get to have their routine? And then the half of it's my fault but... I can tell like many examples of things that I wish I can say something.
THERAPIST: How do you mean half of it is your fault?
CLIENT: Well it's like I'm not really following up with them. Or I think some of it falls on them too. Like the roommate is really flaky, and she constantly has to be reminded of certain things, so I think that's kind of another aspect where maybe she needs to maybe make herself a little more accountable. But like if I'm not saying like, "Okay, let's talk about our schedule. Then Wednesday you can wake up early." Then I kind of just say one thing and it went on the wayside. [00:06:08.3]
But then that brings up another thing, like I feel like I'm always the one who has to initiate everything. Like complain to the landlord if something's wrong with the house, reminders to pay bills, reminders to do this. And I'm like, "If I don't do it, no one does it." Literally, like, our cable has gotten shut off twice because no one has paid the bill. So I feel like, somehow I'm in these situations it's like across the board in many things, and I feel like it is – or it has to be – me to some degree. At least I feel that way. (inaudible at 00:06:48.9)
THERAPIST: Well you feel, like, put-upon.
CLIENT: Yeah. It is like something like the annoyance. I think like some of it definitely goes into like, "Why can't they just be more responsible too, or why can't they?" But sometimes I don't think, I don't that it's that they take advantage, but I do think if you feel like someone will always do it, like you don't feel the pressure to do it yourself. So...
(pause) I feel like I just end up feeling like, annoyed a lot. [00:07:35.5]
THERAPIST: Well it seems like a lot of the people that are around you feel like they need rehabilitation.
CLIENT: Yeah. I think so. (pause) I mean, again, I end up feeling like it's me. (laughs) [00:08:03.6]
THERAPIST: What do you mean?
CLIENT: I don't know, like, that my tolerance of people is either so low, or I have these great expectations that, I don't know, somehow is making me unhappy in some way. Or, you know. (pause)
Then I just think I, I don't want to be that just disgruntled, annoyed person all the time. So I feel like I should kind of to something about it, but I don't know what to do.
THERAPIST: How do you mean do something about it?
CLIENT: I don't know. If it's just having a different perspective or... I don't know. Look, I really feel like it's, I don't know, like it's something with me that causes me to like not speak out, or get in these situations. And that I feel like I'm just like fueling my own fire somehow. And so like, I don't know what else I could do, but... I don't know. I just feel like when it's kind of across the board in so many areas, like the one common denominator is me. (chuckles). So...
And then I don't know if I don't speak up because I don't feel that I have the right, the right to? I don't know. Like I feel like, a lot of times like I really don't just feel like my fair share, or... But it's almost like I can't - like in theory I think I'd want it. But it sound like when I say it out loud I feel like maybe I don't deserve it, or feel like, I don't know. [00:10:00.8]
And like I know that I hate, I have a problem asking for favors or... That's not really a favor, but it's asking someone to do something, essentially, I don't know if that's kind of part of it. (pause)
Or yeah, and I don't know that I'm worried that they're going to say no. And then I'm going to be put in the position where, I don't know, it gets ugly?
THERAPIST: Ugly how?
CLIENT: Because you... What if someone's like, "No, I don't want to wake up early to take a shower." Then my choice will be, (chuckles), I feel like everything is really black and white and that's a problem too. But like hash it out with them and possibly have some sort of, what seems like to me, argument. Or continue to wake up extra early. [00:11:02.2]
So when I have to ask the question, and I think the answer might be something else, like I just don't do it as quickly, as well. But I don't know if it's if maybe the answer's not going to be to my liking that I just, I don't follow through with it.
THERAPIST: So what kind of argument would ensue?
CLIENT: Somehow I don't think there'd be an argument, but to me it'd feel like, like I'd have to rationalize why we should be taking turns. Or... And then it feels like an argument to me because at that point I'm really, I guess annoyed or upset.
THERAPIST: And you would need to rationalize because... Yeah why? I mean, why do feel that's what the situation would call for? [00:12:04.4]
CLIENT: Well I think that if I was in that situation I would try to have them understand why like waking up a half an hour early most of the days of the week... Something like, it's that kind of conversation.
THERAPIST: So you're assuming – you'd have to rationalize because you're assuming they wouldn't understand.
CLIENT: Right. And I feel like that's, like saying that out loud, I'm like that's... Like I'm sure if I went to someone they'd say like, "Sure, I'll wake up early." But then I don't know if, I think it bothers me because they didn't even think to do that, and that's why I have a hard time asking.
Like I feel like I would automatically think, "I don't want to impose your routine. I will wake up early, or I'll ask about it." But since they don't, I mean maybe it's just like pure ignorance, but I feel like it's because they don't want to. So then (inaudible at 00:13:04.8). I should say no. But right now we're not going to make a big deal of it, and I probably should just say something. [00:13:11.3]
THERAPIST: But you feel that they should – you shouldn't have to say anything. That's what you, that's the place you come from.
CLIENT: Right.
THERAPIST: You see, I think one of the reasons you feel so annoyed is you feel so put-upon.
CLIENT: Mm. I mean, I definitely feel like, that if I don't do things a lot of things don't happen. And so... yeah.
THERAPIST: And that you're sort of, you're stuck cleaning up everybody else's mess.
CLIENT: Yeah. And then I used to, like literally cleaning up messes. That house will be like super-filthy sometimes, and I feel like I'm the only one who recognizes it and then cleans it. And then there are other times when I've been like, "Screw it, I'm not cleaning the house." And then, I mean, there have been times when it's gotten like really, really nasty. And it's like no one recognizes.
And then like, yeah. I mean I have had conversations like, "Why don't you take that room once. Split it up." And I've even said that it's not fair to me to clean up all the house, constantly. But then no one still does it. So then that annoys me even more and I feel like I shouldn't be their mama to like harp on them to do their chores.
So, and then I feel like I'm complaining at all, I'm just feel like I'm really unpleasant.
THERAPIST: How long have you lived with these roommates? [00:15:00.2]
CLIENT: One of them I've lived for two years and the other one's new. (inaudible at 00:15:14.5) (pause)
And it's like in my head it comes out like I feel like I'm really thoughtful, and I'm sure there are many cases where I'm not thoughtful. Or maybe the same thing happens to them and, I don't know, but I've been in these situations a lot. And I feel like that, just like ties into my relationships with people. If I can't say something that bothers me, I end up feeling so annoyed with you, it's like I really don't want to bother with you, or have like minimal contact. I don't think that that's... [00:16:01.8]
So then I would let someone who has, you know, rather like really good qualities in many different areas. But then I get so annoyed about like a shower routine or something, that I'm like, "I don't want to deal with you." (pause)
Yeah. So, (inaudible at 00:16:31.2)
THERAPIST: Why do you think you feel so put-upon?
CLIENT: I don't know. I mean, I guess when we look like when talked like taking advantage, I don't think that it's – I don't think it was what she was doing, but I think that in any situation it's, if you don't have to do it yourself, then it gets done for you it would be fine. But I don't know why I maybe take it like sort of personal, or, I don't know. [00:17:10.0]
But I think like it just comes back to me. I don't know. Like I feel like if something needs to get done, that I, like I have to take them in. Like, I feel like I can't count on anyone almost. So it's like I, if I want it, like I have to do it myself.
So... I don't know why I feel put-upon so much, but... Yeah, I think – I don't know. Just like thinking back for things like, I don't know, growing up as a kid and like my dad, like doesn't really follow through on his word. Or my mom has made like promises about like helping me out with my car when I got my license. I feel like it's all just like little things where people have said that they'll help me do something, or... And then it just never goes through. [00:18:09.7]
So I feel like I've become extra like – anything you want you have to do it yourself. And I think that's, I mean it's good but then it's also bad because I feel like I, I don't know, sometimes I like I just have like tunnel vision. And just see something I want and I just like, I don't know, I feel like desensitized to things.
Like we were talking a couple of weeks ago about like, the difference between mourning over something and then being like numb to it. I feel like sometimes I'm just, I don't know, I see whatever I want and then I'm not like empathetic towards people, or... I don't know' I feel like people tie in somehow. But it's like, not many people are like dependable. And that's probably why I don't like asking for things.
THERAPIST: You very much carry that around with you, that you feel that most people are not dependable.
CLIENT: Mm hm.
THERAPIST: And that gets, and so you're feeling like, "Up, it's up to me again." It gets triggered very easily. [00:19:11.0]
CLIENT: Right. (pause) And so yeah. I don't... I feel like I never know whether... I don't know. Or maybe there are like certain – like this is one of those things where I'm like, "I wish I had a plan to fix it and be able to speak up so I'm not in the situation." Or... I don't know.
But yeah, I definitely feel like there are not many people that – and I mean this is like a very wide range of dependable things, but from like my parents being dependable parents, or talking about money, to like the roommate cleaning the toilet. Or like plates in the kitchen. I think it's many things that I definitely carry around with me. [00:20:12.2]
And so I just, yeah, I don't like feeling like that and I don't know how to, I don't know, not feel like that. Overcome the situation so I don't, I don't know, I guess, feel so – I don't know if feel alone, but like I just need to figure it out all myself. So... Yeah.
But it doesn't feel like... And I don't know if it's just a matter of like, I feel like the things that I've – like not trusting people I'm just with Jamie like just like as time goes by, and I feel like he's proven himself but I've had some successful situations at like putting myself in a vulnerable position, like I slowly make progress. And so I don't know if it's a matter – I mean, I think it is – a matter of me trying to like open up and have conversations with people so I don't feel so put-upon. And I'm not sure, but eventually maybe my view will start to change, or I'll feel differently. But I guess I don't like being in those positions because then when I'm like let down, I feel like I really get, depending on what the situation is, like more annoyed, angry, hurt, whatever.
And I definitely like, I build it up. And then, so I feel like I, it's very hard for me to say to someone like, "You disappointed me." Or, "I was upset that you didn't do it." So I like, I don't say anything the first time, and I don't say anything the second time, and then finally there was some breaking point and then you get the, the whole history. That's not good either. [00:22:15.0]
And I don't know if I don't say anything because I'm like hoping that it won't happen again, and then ... Yeah, so...
I don't know why I feel so, I don't know, like the world is just weighing on my shoulders and it's all up to me to figure it out and get done.
THERAPIST: Yeah you really feel that way.
CLIENT: So yeah. I don't know why. And then I feel like it's almost like, "Whatever made you feel like that," and I feel like stressed out. But then I'm like, there are a lot of times when like, "Well don't flatter yourself so much where it's up to you to get everything..." I don't know, I feel like who am I perhaps to have sort of like, such a warped view on something that I'm like putting myself on a pedestal, and if I don't get it all done everything's going to go to crumbles. I'm sure that's not the case, but... And then I feel weird when I like think that thought. [00:23:30.1] (pause)
Yeah. And then I felt like, "Is it a situation where I think that I can always do something better?" And I don't think that's it's like a, like a competitive way that I feel like I have to get everything done, but I feel like it really just doesn't get done.
And then I have a problem where I feel like, you know, I feel like I shouldn't have to say something or that someone else should've thought of it. [00:24:19.4]
THERAPIST: Should've because...?
CLIENT: (coughs) Excuse me?
THERAPIST: Should have because...?
CLIENT: I don't know. I feel like just... I don't know. I feel like in a lot of situations, like other people can be affected by your decisions. Or, I don't know. And then like, I feel like I have no really good rhyme or reason why I feel like they should have, but I'm like, I don't know. Like you know the hours that I work, you know that I like scramble around the house just like you in the morning. I'm like, I don't know, I feel like; you know my routine, you know what time I have to get to work, you know how long it takes me to get there. So I don't know if you – maybe this is me making an assumption – but wouldn't you put two and two together, that there's not enough time for me to shower before you're done. Or that, you know, I mean I could assume that she knows that I don't like waking up at 5:50.
THERAPIST: Why? Some people like waking up early.
CLIENT: But I feel like she knows me. And like we, like I'm not complaining about waking up or... I feel like if it was a complete stranger then maybe, but this is someone that's like, like you know, we're close. We know each other, and...
THERAPIST: So she knows – you feel she knows about you, that you're not a morning person or you don't... [00:25:54.6]
CLIENT: Right. So I don't know, maybe it is just speaking up, and I'm giving her or giving myself too much credit to think that she knows these things. But I think I – like with the new roommate I feel like... And I feel okay talking to her about like the morning routine stuff, because it's like, she doesn't know. But... I don't know.
THERAPIST: Yeah, I wonder whether you have a set of expectations that speaks to the way, you know, a kid wants her parents to keep her in mind. And that they should be attentive to what you need. Attentive to who you are. And that these sets of expectations, which are understandable for the way a child would think about a parent, you're wanting everybody to keep you in mind that way. [00:27:00.2]
CLIENT: Mm, I don't know. I mean, maybe. I think that would maybe, I don't know, explain like... I don't know. I feel like I'm kind of like motherly in my approach. So I feel like maybe that could be kind of the opposite and why I think about, like, not every little detail but things like that on the opposite end. I don't know.
I mean, I think that could be it, but then I think – I don't know. I feel like, I don't know, like there's just... I feel like, like she knows me well and I, I don't know. I feel like – not to make an excuse – but I think she knows pretty well that I don't enjoy waking up a half an hour early so her and her boyfriend can keep to their morning routine and be undisturbed. [00:28:02.4]
I think part of it is like, I feel really annoyed too because they're... Like she spent... She's just in la-la land, and I... Like, she spends a significant amount of time at his house as well as it's like...
I don't know, I feel like I, I have to live in the house and I stay there all the time. But then like, and you're off in la-la land and like, leaving like your crap in the laundry for three days at a time. And then you eat your dinner and then you leave the dishes all over the table. And like for one night that's okay. But when you're gone for three nights, and I have to look at it, like you know, the choice is like leave it nasty there on the table or clean it up myself. And then like sometimes she'll forget, so I'll put them all in the sink so she can do the dishes. Then she'll come home and she still won't do them. And they'll be sitting there for like a week and she'll be, "Oh, who's dishes are they?" "Yours, remember?" And she says, "No, they're not." And it's just things like this over and over and over. And then I feel like she gets to escape, and maybe I'm like slightly envious that she just doesn't care. But then I feel like I'm in the one living in that situation when she's gone. And it's her mess so it's not really fair. [00:29:14.2]
THERAPIST: It's so strikingly similar to the way you describe your mom. She just left, leaving you with all this responsibility. And she's off in la-la land, not thinking about how her actions could possibly impact anyone, especially you.
CLIENT: Yeah. That's true. I mean, and I don't know if this is just like – my other roommate, not the new one but the one that lived there before the new one. I mean she, I think some of it is, yes it's true and maybe that's why it hits a nerve. But then like other people see her being in la-la land all the time too. [00:30:01.2]
THERAPIST: Do you feel like in my saying that, that I was questioning your perception?
CLIENT: No. I think I question myself. Because I think that like I could, I don't know. Like I think I can make a lot of connections sometimes, then I wonder like if I just make them like, I don't know, too deeply or... I don't know.
But, yeah. But then I think it just all – yeah, I don't know. I feel like it's not asking, or I don't think it's asking too much to think that before you leave the house for more than one day that you don't leave it in shambles. I mean we're not talking like shoes in the doorway, we're talking like cups all over the living room table. Pots still on the stove. Dishes on the table. Dishes in the sink. Laundry in the dryer.
But then for some reason, I feel like I'm wrong if I'm like, "Hey, you left the place like a pig pen." And maybe I can say it nicer, but I just feel wrong that I have to say something. But then I feel like one could argue like it's wrong that a place was left so messy. [00:31:19.3]
THERAPIST: There is also, I do think that there's sort of a level of dis... There's disbelief on a few levels. Like, "How could you act like this?"
CLIENT: Right. I mean, I feel like every time I go away to see Jamie, I'm like – you know; are my dishes done? Do I have anything in a common area that's going to like bother anyone if they have guests over, or where they're going to have to like tidy up after me. Like I feel like there's a checklist that I go through. Like; is my food thrown out in the fridge so they don't have to deal with taking the trash out in a while. Like, I feel like I'm really thoughtful like that, and I don't know, I guess I expect that most people should be. But yeah. [00:32:10.7]
But then I feel like I get really bothered... I can't chalk it up to being like; well they're just really lazy. It's like I like, really feel this like deep annoyance, or disbelief, or I'm displeased. But it's not just like, I don't know, it really deeply annoys me.
THERAPIST: I mean, she sounds very inconsiderate. I'm not trying to justify her behavior, it does sound frustrating. But you're right, it's where it touches a nerve that goes to a whole new level.
CLIENT: Right. And it stinks because like I really like her and I feel like we've become like really close over the last couple of years living with each other. And I've tried to have like a couple of situations where I've said like, in very nice – like I've practiced it. Like, "Do you think maybe we can take turns with the house?" Like, "You know, I really have been cleaning up a lot and it's been like a couple of months now where I clean every room in the house every week." And would she participate a little bit more in that cleaning process because it's not quite fair. And then she'll be like, "Okay." But then she still doesn't follow through. And then I just feel like, I don't know, at that point like, like it's like harping on them, and it's not my job to do that. So I just do it.
THERAPIST: Well I'm also thinking, you know it's not easy to find a place in the city that' s affordable, but I'm thinking, "Well you don't have to live there."
CLIENT: I know. And that's something that I think about, but when (inaudible at 00:33:49.8) to be done.
THERAPIST: I know how expensive it is to live on your own, but you could probably get a nice studio apartment that may be for a similar price. You don't have to deal with other people, you just have to worry about cleaning up yourself and not one or two other people. [00:34:04.1]
CLIENT: Right. And that's another thing I definitely think about and most likely will pursue when the lease is over. And then I like think about, I don't know, especially like do I – I think I over-think things. So then I start thinking like; I just don't want to deal with people anymore. Like... To me it feels like I almost don't want to be like social, and that I'm going into my little cave and I don't want to deal with it. And I know most people live alone, but I feel like when I hit this level of such annoyance to the point where I'm like; I don't want to live with everyone, anyone, and I just want to be alone. That makes me feel strange. Because I feel like I'm just shutting the door and shutting everyone out. [00:35:00.4]
THERAPIST: Alright. It doesn't feel like an alternative that could make you feel more peace. It feels like you're just withdrawing, and giving up.
CLIENT: Yeah. And I mean, I do, like I do want to live alone, and I have like a goal like to be, definitely be on my own in a nicer place within the next couple of years. But I feel like at that point where... Well because I've told myself, "The goal is just stick it out because it runs for cheap and I have like a pretty nice place." So like every time I've been like, "That's it, I'm leaving." And like well, probably going to double your rent so to like stick it out for another year, you could really, you could save some more money and then that could put you ahead when you do decide to go.
But yeah, so when I feel like I have, like want to make that choice, it's really like, not running away but, yeah like shutting everyone out. Instead of a happy like, "I finally have my own place now and I'm happy about it, and I like it, and..." [00:36:03.2]
THERAPIST: But I mean you think about getting you own place as, "Screw you. I'm outta here." [00:36:08.9]
CLIENT: Right. And I don't know if that... Like when I moved out of my parents' house it was kind of like that. And it was almost the same situation. Like I knew that I would have been moving out within a year, probably, because I was done with school and was just trying to save some money. But the situation with like my dad, after my parents got divorced was just so bad that like I made what I felt was like a really rash decision moving in with like my college roommate who's a very lovely person but a nightmare to live with, from day one. And then I moved back to where I went to school in Cambridge and that just wasn't really fun or I feel like, a place for me to live, what I really wanted.
So then I felt like extra, I don't know, like lonely almost because I wasn't real like excited about it. Like I felt like I had to leave. So I like moved to this place that was like close to work and kind of living with my roommate that I was miserable. And it just, I think, lonely too, because I wasn't happy. I didn't have like-minded people around. And there wasn't, one couldn't really walk anywhere. And the things that I enjoyed were not, you know, readily available to me. And that changed after a year, but...
THERAPIST: What did that loneliness feel like? [00:37:39.3]
CLIENT: Just... I don't know. And just like when I think back, like I was at a place where I was like really unhappy. So like, well I felt like I was really unhappy with my family situation and that I had broken up with the boyfriend I had been dating for a couple of years. And I felt kind of like happy that it was over – well I initiated, but just not really being happy. And I think sometimes like if you're lonely and like you, you know, miss someone but you live somewhere where you can like go out and do things that you like... But I was just like; family was bad, the roommate situation was not optimal. I was literally like living in an area where I had to drive everywhere and couldn't really do anything outside which makes me happy. Then just like there was no place to go, and it wasn't fun, so I hung out at my house a lot.
And I had a friend that I used to hang out with a lot, but he was kind of miserable too. So he calls it, "The winter on the couch," because we feel like it described all every weekend watching movies on the sofa. (laughs) But I don't know, when I think to like that, "I can't take it. I'm going to move out and live alone." Like I think of like that situation, and I'm like, "Hm, maybe I can just stick it out another year or two, until I'm ready." [00:39:03.5](pause)
But yeah. I think like, just from every aspect it wasn't very pleased with life. And then that made me feel lonely because there wasn't like there was something else that could really make me happy, to balance it out. And I think I'm much more happy now. But I do think like the city is so expensive. So when I think to like, to like living alone will I have to move to another area where I find undesirable. And for me that's like one big thing that is very important, that makes me happy. So...
Like when I talk to like Jamie about it, he said, "Why don't you move to Quincy, it'll be close to work and to me." And I was like, "No." (whispering) You know. No. So...
THERAPIST: You don't feel like you could afford like a small place in Somerville? [00:40:00.6]
CLIENT: I could. I just feel like – I like plans, so I have like a very detailed plan to like pay off my student loans within the next couple of years. And have X amount of dollars saved within the next couple of years. And I feel like I've really stuck to the plan. And then like our rent's really cheap, we only pay 550 a person. And the landlord has just never ever raised the rent. And so then I think; if you pay all the utilities alone, and the rent will most likely double. So it is...
THERAPIST: You could probably get a studio for like $1,00. Around that.
CLIENT: Yeah. So I mean not an option that I would rule out, but I feel like I'd digress from my plan a little bit and you know how much I love plans, so... But then I think like, is that extra money worth my sanity? Maybe. [00:41:02.1]
That's something I am thinking about. And then I think too, like a lot of times like now, I would feel like something would have to give. And a lot of times like Jamie and I are seeing each other, and that costs money. So what, you know. I'm sure that I would – and I'm sure if I talked to him about the money situation he would pitch in more, but...
THERAPIST: He must... What kind of physician... I mean he's a physician to begin with, but what kind of...
CLIENT: An anesthesiologist.
THERAPIST: I mean, anesthesiologists do quite well.
CLIENT: I know. Well half the time, it's me like asking for help that I have the problem with. We have made some progress talking. And then I feel like I just have like a really hard time talking about like, money with him because I know that the difference in the incomes are so... different.
THERAPIST: And so why does that make it difficult? [00:42:00.6]
CLIENT: I don't know. Because I feel like, I don't know if helpless is a good word, but dependent maybe on him. Like if you want to continue to see each other once a month, or more. Yeah.
And then I feel like I have... Like many times he's been like, "You know, I will pay all the time and that's okay." But I'm just like, I feel like I put up a really big stink, "No." And I don't know if it's because I don't like feeling helpless, or not in control. But I feel like me contributing towards that makes me feel better.
THERAPIST: Well as much as you want other people to have you in mind, and maybe even care for you, take care of you, then in this way you're resisting him taking care of you even though he's offering it. [00:42:52.3]
CLIENT: Yeah. I don't know. And I don't know if it's like... Well no one has really taken care of me besides my parents. But my dad like any time you, he gives you something, I feel like he uses it against you in the future too. So I have been like, "I'll never ask for anything unless I really, really need for it. And one, that way you won't have to harp on me for everything you've given me. And two, I won't feel bad that I had to ask you and you made me feel bad after." So I feel like it's really hard for me to like let go of that and then let him help. I mean, I don't think he'd use it against me, but I feel like it's the same type of situation.
THERAPIST: Well, I mean what you've been talking about is how completely irritating being the ‘responsible' one is. And then but on the flip side you feel that if someone else is the responsible one in some form, then there is a way in which you feel you know vulnerable, helpless. Like there's a price to pay for giving up that position of being the responsible one, even though it's so irritating. [00:44:09.5]
CLIENT: Right. Yeah. And I don't know, yeah I don't know that I feel if I like feel that I owe you something because you helped me? I don't know. Yeah I'm not sure why.
Because it's true, because like I want to be, or take on the role of being the responsible one. And then I must feel like I don't want to be the responsible one all the time, but then I can't really let it go.
And I don't even know if I want to be the like, I feel like I just want things to be fair. So, I don't know, I feel like no one needs to take care of me, I just want everyone to pitch in. [00:45:08.9]
THERAPIST: If people don't take care of each other, where is, well how are people related? What's the relationship based on? Autonomy and self-sufficiency? That's not a relationship.
CLIENT: Right.
THERAPIST: That's just everyone being separate.
CLIENT: True. Yeah. I don't know. I don't know. I have such an issue with – I don't know if I feel like vulnerable when I let someone help me. I don't know. Yeah, I think that was like... It's like, like with my dad I just feel like he you know he then uses it against you, and that has really like stuck with me deeply. That I... again, I don't know. And then I just end up feeling like; well why... Like in theory like yeah, he can pay more and we actually discussed like splitting things whenever I go. But I don't know. Yeah, I still just feel really like, "Well why should you have to split it?" And then like we talk about it, and I know it's like well we want to see each other so we just make it happen. But I still feel like, "Well you shouldn't have to do that."
THERAPIST: Well with the idea of strings being attached, I think you fear the reverse situation. You feel put-upon and maybe you worry that Jamie will, at some point, feel put-upon. [00:47:04.6]
CLIENT: Yeah. That's definitely a possibility.
THERAPIST: We're going to need to stop. I'll e-mail you you're bill, I don't have it. I think you owe me for December.
CLIENT: December. Yes.
THERAPIST: You know, if you can give it to me next week that would be great.
CLIENT: Sure.
THERAPIST: Okay. And I'll e-mail you in the next few days about the day that you want to switch when I get back.
CLIENT: Sure. Okay.
THERAPIST: Okay. Take care.
END TRANSCRIPT
