TRANSCRIPT OF AUDIO FILE:
______________________________________________________________________________
BEGIN TRANSCRIPT:
THERAPIST: So what will you get? What are we guessing that includes?
CLIENT: The $40.00 and then two more? 
THERAPIST: I have no idea what you owe. I guess I'm...
CLIENT: I owed you $40.00 two weeks ago.
THERAPIST: Okay. 
CLIENT: And then I missed... It should be $40.00 and then two sessions minus one recording.
THERAPIST: Okay.
CLIENT: I think.
THERAPIST: Okay. Because I had something different.
CLIENT: Oh what did you have?
THERAPIST: So I had that you owed me $15.00 for last week's co-pay because you had only paid like $10.00 of it. And then $25.00 for today which would total $40.00 right? And then you had a missed session which actually I have to charge you for the sessions.
CLIENT: That's totally fine.
THERAPIST: So a private session is $165.00.
CLIENT: Oh the total session. Oh. Okay. That's fine. 
THERAPIST: But since you record you get a break on that so we could call that—I don't know—$100.00. Is that okay? [00:01:07]
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: So then that would be $140.00 and then you'd be all done for today. So let's just add $40.00 to next week so you don't have to write another check and then next week you can write a check for the $40.00 left over from the missed session and then your $25.00 for your co-pay. Does that sound fair?
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: So next week it'll be $65.00.
CLIENT: Okay.
THERAPIST: I'll just write that down here.
CLIENT: Are you sure you don't want it just now?
THERAPIST: If it's easier for you, you can do it. It just feels like a lot at once for you.
CLIENT: No that's fine.
THERAPIST: Okay. (Pause) I have to charge you for the whole session because I'm not allowed to bill insurance because it's insurance fraud if I bill them for a session that you're not here. 
CLIENT: That's fine. Insurance fraud.
THERAPIST: I would not like to commit insurance fraud. I also don't like to charge a full session. So now it is totally done. [00:02:08]
CLIENT: I had a cold on Monday. It was actually good because I ended up getting this frantic call from my lab mate around noon (inaudible at 00:02:18). But anyway she had just broken up with her—or her boyfriend had just dumped her out of the blue after five years. It was a huge crisis, so I went and helped her out, and it was actually really nice to talk to her and be able to actually help someone because I feel like lately I've just been a bad friend to everyone. It's nice to be able to be a good friend not that I want that to happen to her.
THERAPIST: Right. But that you were able to be there for her when she needed someone.
CLIENT: Yeah. Yeah. It was fairly nice. I was sitting at home feeling sorry for myself. I had a cold and it was cold—and I don't know—it feels good. I don't know if I helped her at all but... [00:03:03]
THERAPIST: She clearly wanted the support. I mean she called you. 
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: So she must not feel that you're that bad of a friend. 
CLIENT: Well she called me because I've been telling her stuff that's been going on. I first told her about anything when I didn't come back to the lab after trying to break up with Josh over lunch and she was worried about me.
THERAPIST: When did you open up to her about that?
CLIENT: That was the week I ended up moving out of my mom's.
THERAPIST: So you opened up to her right at that time?
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: It kind of goes both ways. You opened up to her so she opens up to you. People tend to kind of match each other like that.
CLIENT: Well it took her a long time. 
THERAPIST: So how have you been doing?
CLIENT: I've been doing okay. Josh just found out he's back into (inaudible at 00:03:58) which is really not so good.
THERAPIST: Oh no.
CLIENT: I got him thinking. I don't know what happened. We went to the doctor Tuesday. [00:04:07]
THERAPIST: Because he wasn't feeling well or was there a routine?
CLIENT: He had an appointment but he really wanted to go anyway because he wasn't feeling well, and he found out he's (inaudible at 00:04:17). 
THERAPIST: Oh no. 
CLIENT: He's a bit of a mess right now, and I haven't reacted badly to it.
THERAPIST: How are you reacting to it?
CLIENT: I'm trying not to think about it too much and just let it be. I mean the doctor just gave him more drugs and said wait and see. It's got to be a wait and see. I really hope it's just that he was drinking too (inaudible at 00:04:44) and got full of it and it's not anything bad. 
THERAPIST: Are those possible?
CLIENT: Are they possible? I don't know. They don't know. 
THERAPIST: So they don't understand why?
CLIENT: No. I mean they don't even say whether the procedure he had in January did anything yet. They wouldn't know. [00:05:11]
THERAPIST: It's really hard not to have answers huh?
CLIENT: Yeah. I mean they think they know what caused it. They think they know what to do. 
THERAPIST: You don't seem so sure.
CLIENT: I mean how could they. They don't have enough information to ever know. And fixing it is sort of guess by guess. That's the best they can do. You know I really wish there was more information. 
THERAPIST: How is Josh taking it? You said he's sort of a mess. What is it?
CLIENT: Well he got my cold and he always gets a cold after I get them worse than I do. He's got (inaudible at 00:06:03) in his chest and he has to go get antibiotics. And he chimed into a miserable mess. Although maybe because I'm doing better right now I've been trying to get him to not be such a baby. [00:06:22]
THERAPIST: Is this the heart condition weakened his immune system?
CLIENT: I don't know.
THERAPIST: Has it made him more susceptible?
CLIENT: I don't know. 
THERAPIST: It's hard not to share a cold when you're living in the same house. 
CLIENT: Yeah, I feel bad too. His mom isn't coming. I mean it's nice that's she there. She brought him things. 
THERAPIST: You can't really control where your germs go. 
CLIENT: I know. She bought him Nyquil and stuff and it's just nice that she's there I guess. 
THERAPIST: Yeah, someone to help take care of him.
CLIENT: She yelled at him to pick up his dish yesterday. So I don't know. I think that things are just wait and see. [00:07:07]
THERAPIST: What's your mood been like?
CLIENT: Oh another thing is so I went to the first week of DBT. I don't think I've seen you since. 
THERAPIST: No, I haven't.
CLIENT: And actually that was not such a good week because I was really looking forward to it a lot and I really hoped that I would end up meeting people who had all kinds of problems that would be helpful. But basically she just explained what DBT was and it sounded interesting. And we went around and everyone had to write down why they were there and what they were afraid of, what they wanted to learn, and all that sort of thing on a piece of paper and then put them in a bag. There was like ten people. They pulled it out and read someone else's. And I wrote I don't want to have to be on anxiety drugs. It's drugs and I'd like to go to sleep reliably. I hope this will help me do that. Just kind of wrote down what was going on. [00:08:09]
And every other person wrote things along the lines of I want to be able to be at peace with myself, and live in my own head, and be captain of my own ship, and things that were very sort of general, and very poetic, and not very specific. And then people went around and said who they connected with. And I got no connection to my being on medication, or struggling with sleep, or any of this. And I don't know. I just got really, really upset for some reason. I think I had banked even more than I realized on that. I mean I was hoping for more of like a support group as opposed to a skills workshop. I didn't think it was going to end up just being a skills workshop. You know what I mean the people just weren't ready. I mean maybe a year ago I probably wouldn't have written down these are my problems. [00:09:03]
THERAPIST: Right. (inaudible at 00:09:03). I mean DBT is a very skills oriented approach, but I don't think that means necessarily that it can't also feel supportive to be in a group learning the skills. I mean I think it'll be useful for you to have some of the skills that DBT talks about; some of the same stuff that we sort of use a little bit in here. I mean the looking at the thought record that we did last time. You know how to try to manipulate your thoughts a little bit so that they are more helpful to you. You know that's a skill that can help you feel better. As you're talking about it you might feel like you get some support from other people in subsequent groups maybe when people start to feel a little bit more comfortable with one another. 
CLIENT: Yeah. And unfortunately I couldn't go to this last one because I had a lab thing which I was sort of sad about. I kind of gave myself some stress deciding what I should do. And Josh said to me if you're wanting to deal with anxiety and be more social you should probably go to your lab event. It's really important and I did good I think. But it would've been interesting to see what the next session was like. So next weekend... [00:10:18]
THERAPIST: When is your next group?
CLIENT: It's every Wednesday.
THERAPIST: On Wednesdays. I mean I know you didn't write down the same types of things that other people wrote down, but I'm wondering if you felt like anything they wrote down could that also have been on your list even though you didn't put it down? 
CLIENT: No, it really couldn't have. I almost felt like I was in a group of introverts who were worried about social situations from what they wrote down. It really reminded me of my old roommate who calls me from time to time just freaking out that she doesn't have enough friends, or isn't doing enough, or feels like everyone hates her, or whatever. There's a lot of people feeling like they were judged by others and not wanting to let that impact them so much or wrote down—I don't know. [00:11:09]
THERAPIST: And that's disappointing. 
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: I understand you wanted something to fill a niche that it's not quite filling yet, and it doesn't seem like it will fill. 
CLIENT: Yeah. I mean I thought I was like not embarrassed anymore about just telling people, but then when I got no response—and the girl next to me who saw me writing—I mean I'm sure she knew it was me—got mine and read it. I could not look at her, and I was trying not to cry for the rest of the time. I just responded really badly surprisingly. 
THERAPIST: What were you worried that people were thinking as they heard your list even if they didn't necessarily all know it was your list? 
CLIENT: I was just so disappointed and frustrated. I mean every time I read anything about sleep no one sleeps well.
THERAPIST: But no one was saying that there.
CLIENT: And maybe people don't sleep well for more reasons like they stay up all night doing homework, or whatever it is that they're doing that just keeps them from sleeping and it's not because they're lying with anxiety. It sleeps anxiety is not uncommon when you read about it, but certainly no one talks about it. [00:12:23]
I don't know. I mean like even my lab mate it seems like her boyfriend is depressed and basically just really depressed; not really anxious but depressed. Okay, so my lab mate's boyfriend is depressed, and I'm pretty sure one of out of every few people I talk to has got some problem. Here I am in a group of ten people, and I'm just getting nothing but basically just felt like what people thought they should say... I don't know. It was too poetic. 
THERAPIST: So there's a possibility that either one you happen to be in a group where people's reasons for being there are very different than yours or you happen to be in a group where people weren't really ready to share in detail really why they were there. [00:13:16]
CLIENT: Yeah. I mean it was a room full of girls, one guy. I felt like I was in a yoga class or something like I should've just gone to yoga. 
THERAPIST: With the types of things that people were saying they wanted?
CLIENT: Yeah. Yeah. So hopefully...
THERAPIST: Well it's interesting because it sounds like you wrote down what was wrong and they wrote down what they were hoping to get. And there might be... I heard one of the things you said was like I want to live more in my own head and not be worried about what other people are thinking. Well I wonder what's going on in her head now. Is it stuff more similar to what's going on in your head? It sounds like she's not pleased with what's going on in her head, or how much she's thinking about what other people might be thinking, but she just didn't share that perspective. Obviously I have no idea about this person who I've never met is thinking, but it might be that what got put down on paper is not necessarily all that's there. And maybe as you go to more groups... [00:14:20]
CLIENT: Yeah, and this all occurred to me later. But at the time...
THERAPIST: At the time it was really hard to sit there and feel disappointed.
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: You had such high hopes for there being a kind of magic experience.
CLIENT: Well I thought that if people were going to put in or had decided to come to a workshop like this they might have been more willing to—I don't know...
THERAPIST: Be open. 
CLIENT: Yeah. Somebody. I don't know. When I first started going to the mental health services at the university all I got was examples about law students and how they all worried about their final exams and were just super stressed all the time about law school. I was really frustrated. I want to talk about my boyfriend in the hospital. I don't want to talk about law students. I mean I keep hearing examples about your other patients who are law students. And actually I think I told some of my lab mates—this is before I knew that her boyfriend was a depressed law student—I'm so terrible. And so the first thing that occurred to me in the room was I really hope this is not a group of depressed law students because that's just really frustrating. I'm sure it's really hard to be in law school, and it drives you crazy, and makes you depressed. [00:15:37]
THERAPIST: It doesn't in any way minimize what you're going through.
CLIENT: But I don't want to talk about school, or worry about school. I actually I don't remember if I've seen you since... Actually I was taking another class and I dropped it because I was working on a Saturday and feeling like I was going to have a panic for this class. I mean this is just unbelievable. I can't have school be like this so I dropped the class and school's been great since which is nice. 
THERAPIST: I did not know about that, but it sounds like it was a really good choice for you. 
CLIENT: Yeah. I worried about my advisor thinking I was not doing enough. But I'm still worried that he'll somehow figure out that I barely worked for the last six months since I've been having all this trouble but I seem to keep doing okay. [00:16:29]
THERAPIST: Do you need that class right now?
CLIENT: No. It was a really good class and other people I know are taking it and doing just fine. 
THERAPIST: It didn't fit for you right now and you don't need it.
CLIENT: And I don't need to have panic attack over it. 
THERAPIST: You don't need to be working on a Saturday night. There's other things you're working on.
CLIENT: Yeah. 
THERAPIST: It sounds like that was a really good choice for you to make. You know recognize what was going on. If it put you over the limit school wise, it doesn't need to be taking up that space using up that anxiety. [00:17:07]
CLIENT: Yep. I mean if school makes me anxious then there's just nothing left that's any good. (Pause) 
THERAPIST: How does school feel without that?
CLIENT: Good. It feels good. I had a really good day yesterday. So as of yesterday it was good.
THERAPIST: What made yesterday good?
CLIENT: I had a meeting with my advisor that I was super worried about.
THERAPIST: The worry being that he was going to somehow find out you hadn't worked?
CLIENT: Well the last time I talked to him... I think I probably told you about this. It was about a month ago and I said some really dumb things. He's not very patient. He's very to the point. He said some things. If it's silly he'll tell you why would you think that. [00:18:02]
THERAPIST: What were the dumb things that you said?
CLIENT: Basic things about atmosphere chemistry that were totally wrong. I just kind of lost it and said some really embarrassing things and got frustrated. 
THERAPIST: And he told you...
CLIENT: He told me I was going down a blind alley and running through goals and basically it was not quite (inaudible at 00:18:30). I was really worried about talking to him again after that.
THERAPIST: And it went well? 
CLIENT: Yeah, he seemed to think I'd done a ton of work and told me to meet with him more because I was starting to get results which I don't know why he thinks that but...
THERAPIST: Does he have reason to think that or does got an office role?
CLIENT: I think I just did something that he actually wanted as opposed to things he didn't want that were a waste of time so it was good. 
THERAPIST: Did you know you were doing things that he'd be happy with?
CLIENT: No. Nope. I mean the great thing about meeting with your advisor is he sees what you're doing. And if it's something that he likes he knows a whole lot more and he thinks I'm going in the direction that he would've suggested. But I didn't know that. But I mean I talked to the other (inaudible at 00:19:26) and they've been getting similar feedback ranging from why haven't you done anything yet to this is amazing. It has no relationship to what they thought they were doing so that was good. [00:19:38]
THERAPIST: It's nice to get that feedback but it seems a little unsettling not to be able to predict what the feedback's going to be.
CLIENT: Yeah, and it's fine generally. I can handle it most of the time. It's just after that one discussion that made me feel like I was really stupid I was like stressed, worried about it.
THERAPIST: Do you feel like... How do you feel in terms of where you're going? 
CLIENT: Good. I mean I in a lab with 50 amazing people who all will help me at all times which is why I chose the lab. It's generally amazing. [00:20:22]
THERAPIST: It's nice to have a place where you can feel settled and secure.
CLIENT: Yeah. Yep. (Pause) Mostly I'm worried about Josh right now. I mean he's sick and he's sick. Did I tell you we're supposedly adopting a puppy this weekend for his mom?
THERAPIST: No, I did not know this. 
CLIENT: He's been wanting to get a puppy for his mom. He thinks his mom needs a companion and something to get her out of the house. She's clearly lonely and he really wants to train it for her. But he knows it requires... [00:21:17]
THERAPIST: So this dog will live in your house because his mom is living in your house correct? 
CLIENT: Yes. (inaudible at 00:21:25). And she's really excited about it. So it seems all good except...
THERAPIST: How do you feel about having a puppy?
CLIENT: Fine. Except that getting a puppy requires (inaudible at 00:21:37), time to renew our homeowner's insurance, going to get it registered at city hall, and paying for this and any other thing. It's waiting for him to do all this stuff and I don't want to... I'm probably putting too much on him like I really want him to be responsible and do all this stuff. He is. It's just that he's also walking around, wallowing, wanting to be taken care of again because he's not feeling well. I don't know. I told him he needs to do all this stuff, or we're not getting a puppy, and I really hope that he does it all. I think I'll be really upset if he doesn't. So this is sort of like a little mini example of all the stuff that was happening on a way worse scale last year and so I really hope that this is fine. [00:22:27]
THERAPIST: So you're nervous that if he doesn't follow through on some of these things that you're going to end up feeling similar to how you felt when he wasn't following through on the bills or things like that? 
CLIENT: No. I mean I think I'll be okay this time. It's just that I want to know that things have changed. 
THERAPIST: So you're using it as sort of a marker?
CLIENT: Yeah. If things haven't changed then if things did get even worse then there's no hope that it would be better this time. So I really hope that... I want things to change. 
THERAPIST: So how would you know if they've changed or not changed? What are your limits here? [00:23:14]
CLIENT: Well I mean obviously with his heart I mean it'll be what it'll be. But I just want to know that I don't have to take care of everything the minute something goes wrong. So I don't know. I guess if he manages to be responsible, and take care of the puppy, and not forget to do everything whatever it is then that'll be good. 
THERAPIST: So what would he... Would he have to do everything?
CLIENT: No.
THERAPIST: What's responsible?
CLIENT: Of course not. 
THERAPIST: Where's your gray here?
CLIENT: He just tends to want to have the good things happen without doing the work it takes to get it done properly. So I'll go to city hall—it's next to my office—and register the dog for him, but I want him to make sure it's okay with the landlord. You know basically make sure that everything's set up for the puppy so that... I don't know. This probably sounds really silly. It's not something I want. It's something he wants so I don't want to have to do more for him than... I feel like he should do it all himself and I'm helping just because. [00:24:39]
THERAPIST: Yeah, I mean it sounds like it's not really about the puppy. 
CLIENT: No, it's not about the puppy. 
THERAPIST: The puppy is the thing that's going on right now. But it sounds like you're using kind of has he managed the situation and how active is he in kind of thinking about I noticed you said the proper way for it to get done. 
CLIENT: Yeah, I mean he just generally likes to do things how he wants them to be done regardless of whether it's legal or not. Whatever. Like he'll drive a car without insurance without even thinking about it just because he didn't get around to it yet. I mean he still hasn't gotten his driver's license yet. I mean he just wouldn't do things unless someone made him which is just not acceptable. [00:25:30]
THERAPIST: Because you end up feeling really responsible?
CLIENT: Yeah. Or he ends up getting in trouble, generally financial, which is not good for the future. We can't make a life like that. Like not dealing with his loans and just letting them get worse and worse and getting things in the mail all the time from the loan companies that he just refuses to deal with. And he's made a lot of progress and not doing so good with that anymore dealing with his problems in all ways. So it's (inaudible at 00:26:10) that to continue. [00:26:12]
(Pause)
THERAPIST: How much would... I guess how much do you think you're going to be affected if he doesn't follow through on something on a piece of this? If he doesn't talk to the landlord or if he doesn't get...
CLIENT: I don't know. I mean we probably have to talk about this some more. I mean (pause) I don't know. I mean he knows that this stuff needs to get done. What I would like him to do that he still doesn't do is he can ask me to help him it just has to get done. I would love it if he went hey look I need to talk to the landlord and pay this bill, and that bill, and take the dog to the vet, and blah, blah, blah. Can you help me out with it because it all needs to get done like show me that he's in control of it. [00:27:02]
THERAPIST: And that he's aware of all of these steps. 
CLIENT: I just don't want to help because he didn't do it.
THERAPIST: Yeah. It sounds like you don't want to be responsible for holding a list of what the steps are or checking to make sure if they got done. You want him to demonstrate some awareness of what his legal steps are. 
CLIENT: Yeah. I don't think I've actually really said that to him like that. I don't think I've actually said to him can you just be in control of this but just ask me to help you. I don't think I've said that to him. I think I've still been doing don't forget to do this, don't forget to do that. 
THERAPIST: Which still puts in charge. You're in the role of being the boss.
CLIENT: Yeah. 
THERAPIST: Yeah. I wonder if clarifying what it is that you really want... Because it comes off sounding what you really want is for him to check off these boxes, to do these things, complete these tasks. And really what you want him to do is take some ownership of the tasks. And that might be figuring out which ones he needs to delegate but communicating with you about what he can actually do and what he wants you to do. [00:28:15]
CLIENT: Yeah, and I mean he's terrible at that; really bad. Like he could never be in business. He just doesn't prepare well. I mean it sounds silly, but he didn't go get Buddy's (sp?) dog tag before, and I took Buddy (sp?) to the park, and I got yelled at by the park lady, and I had to go because I couldn't take him to the park. So we won't take this dog to the park because we live across from (inaudible at 00:28:37). We won't be able to unless he goes to city hall, and he'll be all upset, and I'll be upset, and it's just unnecessary. So anyway (pause) but... [00:28:51]
END TRANSCRIPT
