Transcript of Audio File:
______________________________________________________________________________
BEGIN TRANSCRIPT:
CLIENT: Good morning. Sorry I'm late.
I get to go from here to a meeting with Jess and our tax lawyer, to hopefully finally get our shit to the IRS, you know.
THERAPIST: Right.
CLIENT: Jess has no clue when he asks for information what he's talking about or what he means, or the fact that we have to sit down and go through this with him is kind of bothering me, and I have a little bit of lack of faith in him as well that it's gotten to this point that I've already had two levies, and the DOR is going to suspend my driver's license at some point in June, you know? (pause)
THERAPIST: Because you owe the IRS?
CLIENT: Because I owe the DOR.
THERAPIST: Oh. The state DOR.
CLIENT: Yeah. And it is a little complicated, because my office is changing and all my business expenses are different now, and once we sell off the properties we're going to be losing income, so, you know, when all that's going to happen, I don't know. Just got an e-mail this morning from my tenant for May rent - May rent! - that he just put it in the mail, and you know, he sends two checks, one from his wife's account and one from his account, if I could hold his until he lets me know that it's okay to clear. And I'm four months behind with my landlord. The only saving grace is that I finally have a decent number of closings coming up in June that I might be able to catch up a month.
THERAPIST: Yeah.
CLIENT: But it's like... you know, I'm giving Jess all the money that she earned - well, probably more, because I missed a couple of post office (pause) expenses for her - but that leaves me with like 250 dollars and I've got to pay 550 in rent on the first, and I'm behind on my car insurance, I'm having that go through, and I just... I don't know how I'm going to make it stretch and get money out of the first closing I have in June, it's going to be like June sixth. And that will be about 1000 dollars, so I don't know how I'm going to make it all work out. My dad said he was sending me money at some point but I don't know when that's going to be. He's out of rehab. My mom came to town this weekend. You know, I'm pissed off, you know, that she always comes for a very short period of time, making sure not to miss a day of work. Yet she'll miss these days of work for people's bar mitzvahs who she's barely related to, you know? And she hasn't seen Lucille since she was a baby. And so, their flight was supposed to get in at 11 o'clock on Saturday, and they missed the flight because they changed gates on them - the airport at six o'clock in the morning. And somehow every other person was able to make it onto the new gate and the plane except for my 69-year-old mom and my octogenarian step-dad who has hearing aids. They apparently called their name three times over the loudspeaker. So they didn't even get in until like three o'clock on Saturday, they leave at two o'clock on Monday but they've got to be at the airport at noon. You know, they've got to be there for two hours early. So they were here for less than forty-eight hours.
I had a barbecue on Sunday that originally I wasn't going to go to, but then I'm like, you know, I'll just take my mom, take the kids, my mom can spend time with the kids. And Jess was agreeable to that, she was going to drop the kids off and go to the library and do some work and then pick them up - party was nearby. And I think she was kind of miffed because she wasn't invited, but, you know, they're all Ultimate players, they're all my friends. She's friendly with these people, but she's not friends with any of them. And she - this is like right at the start of the soccer game Saturday morning, right after having found out that my mom had shit the bed on making her flight, that she has two friends in town, and she wants to take -
THERAPIST: This is Jess?
CLIENT: Yeah. And she wants to take the baby to see her friends. And I'm like, "No. I've told people that Lucille was coming to the party. There's people that I want Lucille to meet. There's going to be other kids there. I want her to spend time with my mom. This was the whole purpose of this thing." You know? And she tried arguing with me for a little bit but then I think on reflection realized that my mom did fly into town to see the kids, and that. So she actually - I drove the kids, we had Ian sit without a booster seat and squeezed everybody in, and then she came around, I don't know, 6:30, 7:00, and picked up my mom and stepdad and Lucille, and Ian stayed with me until nine o'clock. Because he was having too much fun and didn't want to leave. Then on Sunday - it's like I just can't, every little thing is just fucking... you know, she can get upset with Ian and snap at him, but when I do it all of a sudden, it's like, "Come on, Cameron." Right in front of him she says this stuff.
And then my landlord invited me to - they were having a barbecue with kids on Monday, and so I asked Jess - they invited Ian and I to a barbecue. And you know, once again, she wasn't invited. So she's like, "Well, I was planning on going out with Erica." I was like, well, you know, whatever. So she asks Ian, "Would you rather go with me or would you rather go to the barbecue?" And he wanted to go to the barbecue. And she had - this morning, she had unconfirmed plans with the woman who blows her off all the time, and she brought it up - we got into some argument at breakfast, where she says to me, you know, and I asked right in front of Ian, you know... the problem is there's always so much going on, she's being interrupted by some kid or something - I never get the chance to respond to these things. So I didn't get the chance to say, "No, you asked Ian which one he wanted to go to." And it's just becoming - not becoming... she's just a real pain in the ass about everything. Everything, she's a pain in the ass about. And you know, it's like, "You're not working enough."
So I finally get work, and I'm trying to get work done so I don't see the kids as much as I had been. So now, one of the things she said for the barbecue was, "You haven't even been around enough. Lucille's, you know, going to be upset the whole time, you know." And it's like, the reason I'm not around is that I'm doing work, which you want me to fucking do. You know? It's like, you can't win for trying. No matter what I do, I'm doing something wrong. And of course, Lucille cried when she put her in the car. About two minutes of crying, she stopped crying. And maybe cried once or twice the rest of the... Ian had picked her up and took her outside and brought her inside, and probably left her in the middle of the kitchen somewhere. She found my mom crying, went around and put her arms up for my mom to pick her up, you know, and she made my mom feel good, but she did fine. She ate a hot dog, ribs, bacon - she had a good time. She started crying on the porch, and I was able to stop her from crying. You're not the only one who can take care of these kids. You can't say that I don't spend enough time with the kids, and use that as an excuse for me not to spend time with the kids. I just never get that chance to say these things to her. Not that it would do any good. Not that it would ever do any good. I could keep looking back at arguments we've had, it's just - how hypocritical she is, she brings up a fact that I got an iPhone. I'm like, well, my parents gave me the money for the iPhone. And I run it through the business, take it as a business expense.
THERAPIST: And your old phone is pretty much dead, right?
CLIENT: Yeah. And she ignores the fact that her dad gave her a Best Buy card to go buy a fucking iPad, which is twice as much as the iPhone. And we didn't run it through the business, so we didn't get a tax advantage for it, you know? She just doesn't understand these things, so it's like she complains about that, she complains about the tickets, it's like, "Listen. It's stopping us from having to pay taxes. The lower our income shows to the IRS the better, even with trying to set up a plan with them. The lower the money looks, the less they're going to trying and squeeze us for. They're worried about people making hundreds of thousands of dollars and not paying them, not people barely getting by.
My CPA is telling me how flexible the IRS is being, and that's why I've kind of lost faith in my attorney and - because he doesn't seem to take the same point of view. It's like, I want him to just call them up and say, "Okay, can we stop the collection?" You know, when I called up the IRS I was able to stop the collections. You know? [00:11:41]
It's my bank account this money gets ripped out of, it's not Jess's bank account. And still, once again, this 83 dollars is going to be gone. I don't know if we're going to be able to prove a hardship or not, I just... you know, because he knows what things need to look like. Obviously we're going to owe him money. We've only given him 500 bucks, and he wanted Jess to do a trial for him. Of course she says no. She wants to bitch about me not doing enough work. And all she wants to do is focus on lowering expenses, but when there's an opportunity to help this guy do a trial and divorce, she doesn't do it. It's an opportunity to make us money, or trade off on paying our bill to him by doing some work for him. It's just, "Oh, I can't do a trial. I don't know anything that's going on." Well, that's what he's there for. (pause) It just pisses me off. And I'm the one who's maligned for everything I do. (pause) I've got the summary judgment motion coming up on Thursday. It should just be a slam dunk, and it's just, you know, I'm very anxious about it. (pause)
She wanted me to pick up the kids on that day and I'm like, "I can't, I've got a motion." It's already been moved once. (pause) I actually have a few closings in May. Still struggling with the money, because of the fucking dog bills, the vet bills just crushed me. I can't get my tenant -
THERAPIST: That was just over 3000 bucks, right?
CLIENT: Yeah. The tenant's killing me by not sending me the rent checks. I've got - oh, and I may have fucked up a mortgage contingency with one of my clients. I sent last week asking, Friday was the day they had to have their finances in place, and the brokers screwed up ordering the appraisal. So I asked for an extension of the contingency and I never heard back, and I never realized until yesterday. So technically I did not ask to terminate the contract in my e-mail, and they could call me on it. I could argue with them, but what's the point of asking for an extension? Can I get an extension but I don't want to terminate? It's an argument that we shouldn't have to get into if I had done it right the first time. I e-mailed the guy, I know he read the e-mail and he never responded, and I e-mailed him again yesterday, and I know he read it because I get the read receipt. Now I'm probably going to have to call the guy today, and I don't know. He never e-mailed me back, so who knows. Just bullshit e-mails. (pause) [00:15:44]
The argument is "What do you need to get notice of? The fact that you can't get a contingency, or notice that you're terminating the contract?" I've got a rushed title order that I should have been working on this weekend, and I didn't. I should have worked on it last night but I didn't. They wanted it today today for a closing tomorrow, they gave to me on Thursday. Condominium, but you don't have to do the full fifty years if it's from a developer. I pulled up the developer, and there was just like... hundreds of transactions with the developer. So I've like got to go through all those things today. Lord knows how long I'll be stuck with this tax bullshit. I'd bring my computer but I'm just like, fuck it. I've got to give the information I have but I'm not sure which information on my computer they would want. (pause)
I don't know if I'm running in place or I'm sliding backwards, you know?
THERAPIST: You're moving ahead. I know that was not one of the options you listed.
CLIENT: Sure as hell doesn't feel like it. You know? Doesn't feel like there's any less pressure on me or stress or loneliness or anything, it's all the same, all worse.
THERAPIST: No, I think that's all true, I mean... (pause) [00:18:23]
I think, um, my impression is that (pause) kind of emotionally and in terms of being able to work... (pause) I'm trying to think of some way I can say it. It seems to me that you've gone from being sort of ten times over maxed out to being like one-and-a-half to two times over maxed out, so that you actually probably feel more of what you've got on you, and you feel more responsible for it because you can actually do a lot of it, or deal with a lot of it where a few months ago you really couldn't. Your bandwidth was a lot lower and your responsibilities were more in a way. So I guess I think it's all true that you're moving ahead, you can work more, things are moving more in terms of business, your life is flying in terms of Buddy you're getting out more and being more social and physically active. But you're not feeling any better, and in some ways you're actually feeling things more emotionally and more acutely because you kind of have the bandwidth to feel things like you have the bandwidth to think about things that you didn't have before. [00:20:30]
So it's not exactly a great advertisement for car drives. (chuckling)
CLIENT: Yeah, I mean, July is great, I mean, June's great, but what's July going to look like? What's going to happen after July, what's going to happen with August?
THERAPIST: I was saying this before, you can only do what you can do, and see what happens, I think. (pause) [00:21:43]
CLIENT: I feel it more today because it's a Monday. Mondays I always just feel super anxious and just... I don't know, just... (pause) like I haven't been having stuff over the weekend that I have to think about, and I've got to start thinking about now. It was easy to blow things off over the weekend. (pause)
I do have Handball tonight, hopefully it won't rain. (pause) [00:23:01]
I wish I had some other relationship besides this that could provide me some support. You know?
THERAPIST: Yeah. (pause)
CLIENT: I don't think people in Handball want to hear me bitching about Jess all the time. (pause)
THERAPIST: Are there people you can be friendlier with at Handball? (pause)
CLIENT: Probably, I don't know. I mean... (pause) [00:25:26]
(phone rings) Probably one of my... yeah. I'm months behind on my student loans. I need to get caught up with it, if I could just get these fucking refis to close. (pause) It's like it's not helping me going out afterwards, but it's just... (pause) some way that I, I don't know. I stopped eating all the other time. So when I go out, it's like I want to go to the grocery store and buy some healthy food and start eating at home again. I just don't have the money in my bank account to do that. But somehow I have the money to combo together and burrito here and McDonald's there. (pause)
I like going out to the bar, drink some beers. The current woman of my dreams is going to be there.
THERAPIST: Well, that's something that makes you feel good.
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: You've probably got assured of that. (pause)
CLIENT: I'm driving me nuts a little bit, though, about this woman. Because you know, I just think about it, and I'm like, I'm just being kind of... I don't know what the word is. You know, I... (pause) kind of something that's out of reach, you know? It's like I just don't, haven't gotten anything. Maybe I don't know how to read signals or anything like that, but there's nothing that suggests to me that there's any interest on her part. And I wouldn't want to lose because I'm not sure what the word is, but I don't want to be rejected. And then we play on the same Handball team, so it would be awkward. (pause)
THERAPIST: I think it also feels nice to be excited about someone as much as you feel like it's unrealistic and could cause problems, just the feeling of it.
CLIENT: I guess it's better than -
THERAPIST: Being excited about someone -
CLIENT: No prospects.
THERAPIST: (chuckles) (pause)
I guess I do see it in part because I think you kind of feel that drive.
(phone rings)
CLIENT: Very popular this morning.
THERAPIST: Outstanding.
CLIENT: Same people. (pause) [00:31:13]
I feel like there's something I should be doing, but I don't know what it is. You know? (pause) And then I look at the realism of it, the age difference, that I'm old. (pause) [00:32:13]
THERAPIST: I guess there's a way in which, in light of other parts of your life, you're kind of telling me (pause) how you're already feeling sort of shot down all over the place. That's a part of your worry with being attracted to this woman is that why are you setting yourself up to imagine to be shot down again because you got more than enough of that already elsewhere?
CLIENT: Oh, yeah. (pause) Whenever it gets easy or worse I get too excited about it, exactly what I talk to myself, I say, it's not going to happen. Just accept it. (pause) [00:33:40]
And it's not just also that I'm old, but married with two kids. I introduced my kids to her at the barbecue. (pause)
My mom got to see firsthand (pause) how Jess treats me. She takes no... it's like, we spend hours and hours in therapy about how I didn't want to be told these things in front of the kids, and she can't shut her mouth. She can't not comment about something. There's this thing on Facebook where it's just a bunch of racist jokes and whatever, just this sort of racist page on Facebook. She saw it through one of her friends, whatever. So she goes to the page and starts telling them what racists they are. It's like, are you kidding me? Really? They want to hear it from you? And then she posts how she wants all her friends to go to this page and tell them what racists they are. It's like... (pause) [00:36:07]
(phone rings)
My phone doesn't ring... Las Vegas. That's a survey company, some company's trying to get me to participate in a survey. Same fucking spam. Because my office phone is forwarded to my cell phone, so all the crap people call businesses about. They get hired by the woman who met with me about her crazy sister who screwed up to be a pair of mom's estate.
THERAPIST: Oh, how'd she do that?
CLIENT: She had a bunch of lawyers before me and she's like, "Oh, I really like you, but I've got one more lawyer to see." I probably had experience and was able to give her a better comfort level about it. I'm sure I was cheaper than him, but... (pause) [00:38:15]
I don't know if I mentioned it to you - probably did, because... you know, Jess wants to take the apartment from me, and have me move.
THERAPIST: She'd live there with the kids.
CLIENT: And it just kind of dawned on me, it's like the one thing I have. I don't have anything else but this apartment. And she wants to take that from me too. You know? Well, I wouldn't be able to bike anywhere, you know what I mean? That's my big question in my mind, is am I going to be able to afford this apartment going forward once the rent stops monthly? If every month was June, or every other month was like June, I would be able to afford it. I just, I want to make it work. I want to grow my business to make it work. I like being there. (pause) I'm sure I can find a one-bedroom that's cheaper in Plymouth somewhere, or in other parts of Andover. But all my utilities are included, and now I'm four months behind in rent and he doesn't say a word to me. I'm sure he wants to. It's just... (pause) And then she's looking at it, well, we can't, all the money she's got saved up, she could use that to get us caught up, and then she can move in there into a one bedroom with two kids. Just like, what else am I going to have? You want me to move farther away from the kids? It's always her perception, it's not the reality. What's her perception of what's best for the kids. Ian is in Andover schools, so he's going to be in a good school system. She's convinced herself she can't afford a place in Plymouth, though. She really hasn't made any overt effort to really try to find a place in Plymouth. Other than East Plymouth, which is... living in East Plymouth, I don't know. All the poor people. (pause) Or maybe you can get off your fucking ass and do some networking, grow your business, and be able to afford a place in Plymouth. It just doesn't seem to dawn on her. The one time she realized that was an expense situation was putting Lucille in day care, you know, to make more money. And she hasn't done anything else. She does zero, absolutely none, no networking whatsoever. I don't know any lawyers that have a practice that don't do any networking whatsoever. She's not a member of the chamber. Just does nothing. And puts all the pressure on me.
THERAPIST: We should stop for now, Cameron.
CLIENT: Yeah. All right, I'll go fool with my taxes.
THERAPIST: Good luck.
CLIENT: Thanks, see you Monday.
END TRANSCRIPT
