TRANSCRIPT OF AUDIO FILE:
______________________________________________________________________________
BEGIN TRANSCRIPT:
PATIENT: I know I'm definitely allergic to onions now, for the last year.
COUNSELOR: God, is this too bad.
PATIENT: Everybody says that. Everybody that says that laughs at me, but it's true; over the last like year, year and a half. I notice that every time I eat it I get really hung over, like alcohol hung over. So I mean one time I remember I felt like I got over and I said, "Oh my God, I guess I drank a lot last night," and I remember I didn't have anything. Then we went out for Beth's birthday, went to Luigi's over here, and there were huge chunks in it. I knew I was eating it, going "Why are you eating it?" And I didn't sleep much. So I don't know if I got something during the night or what, but I had fever and it was just awful, so I didn't eat it. Do you know of a nutritionist, by the way, at the hospital? Anyone you know?
COUNSELOR: A nutritionist.
PATIENT: Yeah.
COUNSELOR: I don't know. I don't know whether they have but...
PATIENT: I want to hire one.
COUNSELOR: To help you with your diet?
PATIENT: Yeah, because it just really - I can't hide it anymore. The damn things I eat really affect the way I feel so... I'm eating sugar, and I just want to get somebody to - good maybe sports nutritionist.
I had the worst actor's nightmare this morning. It was just awful. I was like doing a show and I couldn't find my script. And my friend and I were like looking through the script and going "Wow, look at all those lines you're supposed to have. Wonder why they're not in there? We'd better add them." I said, "You can't, you can't, we're opening tonight." "Well, we can learn them that quick."
And then I went searching, running through all of Chicago going "Oh my God, I must have left it at the Y. But I can't run to the Y because the wind is to strong, you know."
Then I was in this transport back to D.C. at some kind of like a group of feeders that were there when I was there, or are there, and I was over talking to one - it's our artistic director sitting next to me. And I said, "Suzie," and she's just like, "Shut up!" She ignored me.
COUNSELOR: I'm sorry, what happened?
PATIENT: She ignored me.
COUNSELOR: You said "Suz"?
PATIENT: Suzie. [2:24]
COUNSELOR: Suzie.
PATIENT: That's her name, Suzie Dytrovtsky.
COUNSELOR: And they're dramatic  -
PATIENT: They're artistic directors.
COUNSELOR: Artistic director.
PATIENT: There was another friend of mine. I can't remember now (inaudible at 2:39) right now.
COUNSELOR: In the dream?
PATIENT: In the dream. And he was like saying, "And we're welcoming so-and-so actors to this process." And I said, "Oh my God, I don't really know any of them," as I was waiting for my heart to sink. And I said - but of course Brian, Brian's the head of the show, and like "Oh no, it's Brian, I hate Brian, you know, we were supposed to..." You know we were going to produce a show together and he backed out and our friendship broke up and he turned out to be a [black Brian] (ph) so it's good. And then my dream was just searching for my script and just woke up like so exhausted. "I can't find the script, I can't find the script."
COUNSELOR: Hmm.
PATIENT: And I know what it's about, because tonight I'm going to go read some of my work at this workshop thing, and I'm just not prepared for it; haven't put enough time into it.
COUNSELOR: Hmm, it's an interesting dream.
PATIENT: Awful, just awful.
COUNSELOR: The searching for the script or searching for the right thing to say or the right way to be?
PATIENT: Well, we went out last night to this thing at Macys, that we're going to try to win a trip to Italy and like I said, "Oh, I shouldn't go, I've got all this work to do." We went anyway and I got back. I did work but it was still different, and that was part of it. I was anxious all day and I was abusive to Beth, and it's "What's wrong," and I just said "No, I'm not prepared." Either I'm not prepared or I'm scared. [4:11]
COUNSELOR: You've got an audition, or you've got a rehearsal?
PATIENT: No, like a - they have like this open type kind of stage night at this place called Rapture which would be a good place for me to start doing my work. I'm taking a couple of things that I wrote that I'm going to half perform and half read them.
COUNSELOR: And that's happening tonight?
PATIENT: Um-hmm, yeah. Funny because the one piece I was reading to a friend yesterday and he was laughing hysterically and he said, "Oh my God, that's the best thing like you've ever written. You've got to expand that. I'm going, "I don't know. I guess there's something about this piece like... Here's like the trouble of not me listening to me. On this shoulder, Steve Allen. You know Steve Allen, right?
COUNSELOR: Steve Allen, the comedian?
PATIENT: Yeah. And this shoulder is Art Purgosian (ph), or Purgosian (ph) the modelist (ph).
COUNSELOR: Um-hmm.
PATIENT: You know, and pounding your head against the nails or something.
COUNSELOR: Right.
PATIENT: And he's over here and he's going "Ah, you say fuck as much as you want, you know. You just take risk and people don't take risks of babies on stage and he is going, "You know what? You don't have to curse to be funny. I mean you always said that about Eddie Murphy," like I thought he was always cursing to try and get laughs, which I agree. Eddie Murphy is so talented he never really needed... Or Richard Pryor.
So it's like, you know, I listen to Steve, listen to Art Purgosian (ph), and then I was thinking of... But this character that I wrote; it's not about him being foul; that's who he is. You know, he's - this is a white messenger, this is the way these guys talk. But not until like Pryor (ph) said, you know, you have to do... You know, it was nice to hear that.
And then I kind of - Vance Ford (ph) was thinking "I'm being interviewed by somebody," and saying, "God, I just sat on this work for so long because I was too scared to do it until someone said 'I think you should do it, I believe in you,'" you know what I mean? It takes a lot of courage to do it on my own.
COUNSELOR: Yeah, you're going real fast. I'm trying sort of half catch up with you.
PATIENT: Oh, sorry, I'm nervous.
COUNSELOR: I was almost thinking of the Steve Allen and the begonia... You're nervous now?
PATIENT: No, I'm nervous about thinking about tonight. [6:19]
COUNSELOR: So it's hard to sort of stay with the nervousness maybe a little bit?
PATIENT: Yeah.
COUNSELOR: Instead of want to like figure it out or know what it's about or...
PATIENT: Well, I keep thinking, okay, well, I need to go to work, but then I had to run into work and I got to do my voice promo in (inaudible at 6:36). It's all those things about avoiding it.
COUNSELOR: Yeah, yeah, because what would happen if you felt that...
PATIENT: Yeah. Then I'll jump forward again [when I found out but...] (ph)
COUNSELOR: No wait, wait, wait. What would happen if you felt it?
PATIENT: Well, it's good when you feel it, because that's what relieves it; I just realized that. I was going to relay that stuff.
COUNSELOR: Well, great.
PATIENT: It's not. It's just getting to that point where I can sit still and breathe long enough to experience that. Saturday I had to meet Cory, my phobia aide.
COUNSELOR: Wait a minute. Wait a minute. What's the story? I mean is the story  -
PATIENT: Yeah.
COUNSELOR: Is it too -
PATIENT: Direct, it's real direct, right to what we're talking about.
COUNSELOR: Is it, though, also a way of avoiding the nervousness?
PATIENT: No.
COUNSELOR: If you tell the story?
PATIENT: No.
COUNSELOR: I'm not so sure that's... Go ahead.
PATIENT: Should I?
COUNSELOR: I don't know. I mean it's up to you, certainly.
PATIENT: Well, no. I mean no, it's not. It's not. I mean it's really valuable because I didn't want to go in the train center; I was scared to death. I knew this was a make or break thing for me, a point, because we were going to go on a train to Lincoln Park where Cory insisted it stops on its way into Central Ave.
So I was just really, really anxious. And I knew the next day, Sunday, I was taking the A-train all the way from our place in Snuggery Union to go to a friend's. I was really nervous about the whole weekend. [8:15]
So when Cory came I said, "You know, I don't want to do this. Let's go have a beer or something because..." And I said, "You're the only person I just pray that I think the point with [him I pay] (ph) that I pray you don't show up every week."
COUNSELOR: Well, this is your panic disorder guy.
PATIENT: Yeah. So as we're going down - keep up - and as we're going down the subway...
COUNSELOR: I'm trying.
PATIENT: We've got the other (ph) guy, we've got the nutritionist...
COUNSELOR: (Chuckling).
PATIENT: And as we're going down I'm thinking like "God, I don't really feel... I feel powerless in the steps. I can't say to them, 'Let's just go one stop, let's not do what we planned.'" Feeling, that, and also feeling like, "Well, I really need to go through with this."
So we got on the train and he said, "Well, let's not take..." Usually we'll take levels. We'll write how I feel every 15 seconds, tension from zero to ten. "Well, let's just stand in the front of the train and watch the trains and see what happens," and that was really successful. And then when we got on to the 7-train I felt very relaxed and I said, "This is really weird." I had to ride the train to get relaxed. So, he said, "Well, that's a great sign, isn't it?" And it's kind of the same thing as what I'm talking about here. It's like as soon as I'll allow myself to feel it, it's okay.
COUNSELOR: Um-hmm, but somehow I think we're still - you're still waiting to get on the train, you're waiting, because there's something about telling stories and this and that and talking that keeps you...
PATIENT: Shows you how smart I am (chuckling).
COUNSELOR: I am pretty smart too, I think about...
PATIENT: No, no, I meant it just shows you how smart I am that I can avoid that.
COUNSELOR: That you can avoid the nervousness by talking about it? Yeah.
PATIENT: I'm rambling because I'm excited, but I'm nervous at the same time. It's just like all eyes on me. If it doesn't - I never get a laugh if people don't react. It's going to be like, you know, that would - that takes a lot more courage to get up after that and go right again. [10:18]
COUNSELOR: Yeah, yeah, yeah. So that's the thing that you're worried about.
PATIENT: Yeah.
COUNSELOR: You're afraid that that's going to happen.
PATIENT: And I know if I can ride the train I can do that any time. Nothing is scarier than that, you know?
COUNSELOR: Well, I'm just kind of having a hard time keeping up here; it's going very fast.
PATIENT: What can I do to help?
COUNSELOR: I don't know.
PATIENT: It is interesting though, because either the more entertaining that I'll be, or the more stories that I'll tell, the easier it is to avoid that, not that I don't want to be entertaining and talk a lot and tell stories. I mean it's different in here than it is in a group of people, you know, friends.
COUNSELOR: What do you mean?
PATIENT: Well, there I mean, you know, I have a group of friends and stuff. I mean we're all going to be entertaining, and I'm not going to sit down and go, well I... It's my friends. Well, I know I'm blocking about my fears and my anxiety right now so I'm not going to be entertaining any more at all. Let's just talk about how nervous I am. [11:58]
COUNSELOR: Well, I know it's a little confusing in terms of what I'm sort of trying to point out here.
PATIENT: Um-hmm.
COUNSELOR: But there's something about feeling like there's a lot of - even talking about the nervousness seems to be almost a way of avoiding it, as if it's - it feels a bit sort of frantic to me. It's like just keep talking, just keep moving forward, keep telling stories, keep relating what's going on in here, the things that happened this weekend. You know, that seems to be just this running away from it, this really scary feeling, this nervousness that you're afraid of.
PATIENT: Um-hmm.
COUNSELOR: And you know, I'm just wondering if it might not - to try to get closer to the nervousness maybe would be somewhat useful. I mean you understand the principle, I think; you said it again and again. The experience is a little hard to pick up too.
PATIENT: Um-hmm, yeah. You mean the experience of being nervous is harder to get to?
COUNSELOR: Yeah, the experience. Not so much talking about it, but the experience, because there's a big difference between talking about your nervousness and really feeling it.
PATIENT: Right. Oh definitely, yeah. And I find myself doing that at work; it's like "Oh man, this is going to be a long work." I'm thinking about all these things I have to do, and then I start getting tension and start twitching my ears. I was thinking about that yesterday; what's this about? What's this about? Could this be the lackless (ph). Because I create the tension. The difference for me of experiencing it as opposed to creating it...
COUNSELOR: It's really familiar to me, you know, somewhat familiar.
PATIENT: Kind of like you just do it right now, switch and tell you a story [14:18].
COUNSELOR: Yeah, yeah.
PATIENT: Wouldn't you suggest, though, I mean like when I'm in that situation, you know, and I'm creating that tension and it's - or I have it, it's something I just experience and say, "Okay, well, this is here and I can figure it out right now"? I'm just experiencing it, as opposed to saying, "Well, where's this coming from," or to try and get rid of it and relax.
COUNSELOR: Well, those are contradictions. Is that - should I try to figure out where it's coming from? It's not going to let you feel it and should I just get rid of it and relax? Those two are - [they're optical] (ph) aren't they?
PATIENT: Yeah, but I mean I know every situation is different, from riding a train or I'm about to go on stage. Well, I'm going to relax. I'm going to do relaxation exercises.
COUNSELOR: Right.
PATIENT: But if I'm just sitting at work...
COUNSELOR: Well, you know, it's my feeling that there's a lot of fear about feeling it in you. There's one fear about acknowledging your interference, acknowledging your vulnerability. You know, just there's a lot of concerns about what that would feel like if people aren't into your concerns about yourself and the competence of... So there's a lot of reasons behind that.
PATIENT: Oh absolutely.
COUNSELOR: So you know, I think all that stuff goes into why it's so difficult for you to experience it. I think if you were a little bit more comfortable with your vulnerabilities, your fears and insecurities, it might not be so hard to feel it.
PATIENT: Okay.
COUNSELOR: And you might actually find that your insecurities and vulnerabilities are actually really - you know, with time they might become really important resources for your work (inaudible at 16:24).
PATIENT: Yeah, I agree. So I mean because right now I'm just censoring all the time and censoring myself. And the hard part was talking about - a writer that I met gets published. I said "I've got 40 stories all in second draft stages," because the most exciting part for me is writing it; then the work comes after it, you know? A novel idea, but it's not fun any more and it's work. I don't want to sit in that work.
COUNSELOR: What made you make a connection to that?
PATIENT: Table.
COUNSELOR: The table?
PATIENT: And avoid her I'll just give myself a test and say, "Okay, well, I'm going to write a draft. I'm going to finish this story." As finished as finished can be but...
COUNSELOR: I'm not sure I understand that, that connection between that and your vulnerability and...
PATIENT: Oh, because it's painful to look at that and just go back and go, "Oh God, that story's sitting there and I'm going to have to go and it's going to be painful and I've got to sit in here and experience this uncomfortable feeling of not wanting to write and why don't I want to write."
COUNSELOR: So it's just easier and so it's like, you know, there's the insecurity and... Would you say that?
PATIENT: Yeah.
COUNSELOR: You have a sense of what's going on for me now?
PATIENT: Depressed.
COUNSELOR: You seem to sort of just...
PATIENT: Yeah.
COUNSELOR: Yeah. A yawn and just like tired.
PATIENT: And I'm tired.
COUNSELOR: Tired look.
PATIENT: Because you're right; it's such a mess for me to cover up and be - interject and tell stories and all so that I don't have any more energy. I'll just have to sit here and go... Not how am I feeling now.
COUNSELOR: So it can't be... Well, I don't think depression necessarily comes with (inaudible at 18:38) your vulnerability. But for you right now, it does.
PATIENT: I'm not necessarily depressed, I'm just tired. You know what that means, to sit here and experience. It means I can't be heightened, I just have to be. Just being is scary to me.
COUNSELOR: What do you mean (inaudible at 19:06).
PATIENT: Well, you know, just - you see people and they're like - their various things and you notice they're just doing art or they're experiencing their surroundings and it's okay where they are, but that's always frightening to me.
COUNSELOR: Sounds like Forrest Gump or something (chuckling).
PATIENT: I went to the bike ride over to the State Street Bridge the first time, and I was sitting down at the River, it's a thing that I've always wanted to do. But I noticed I was really tempted the entire time, thinking "Wow, it's a river away. I can't get home." I'm like "What if I get a flat tire on the bridge?" This would just be frightening and scary on this gorgeous day and I was just tense as can be. [19:51]
And then I was sitting there and going hiyee (ph), let's just... It's okay. I have everything it takes to fix a flat tire. No, I've been in worst situations, you know, than this, emergencies I've gotten through, but besides, that stuff's not even important. And I know that if I had an emergency I wouldn't be nervous because then I'd have something to focus on, but let's just... From the building to home, you know, and then (inaudible at 20:25) and I just... Yeah, this is good. You did it, okay. It's all right.
But it took so much anxiety to blow through this layer of film of anxiety to just relax. And then after I realized that it's okay to be relaxed and be who I am; it was nice.
COUNSELOR: Is that who you are?
PATIENT: Well, I was, it was nice, yeah.
COUNSELOR: It was a good feeling?
PATIENT: Yeah, it was great. Then I realized - I was reading the papers on it - this is good, real good.
COUNSELOR: So when you were feeling it in here can you - what was that? You sort of just - you sort of felt uncomfortable with my...
PATIENT: I guess because it's - I don't know how to really explain it, but you know, it's like I come in, it's like feeling my tap shoe, and my thing for you, and I'm avoiding whatever it is that I'm avoiding or maybe I'm not. Maybe I'm really not. Maybe you're manipulating me and you're saying to me, "Yeah, there's something else going today. You're really not happy. You know, I decided that you should get down to..." Well, no. But then the... You know, now I've lost myself. What was the question again?
COUNSELOR: You know, it's really interesting. I kind of got distracted too.
PATIENT: Sorry. But you had asked me what it was - was that the same feeling in here.
COUNSELOR: So when you come in here there's like - you know, there's a bit of performance.
PATIENT: Well, there's the expectation. You talk about - talk about  -
COUNSELOR: The expectation of doing something that I want you to do and... [22:03]
PATIENT: You know, or I feel I need to do.
COUNSELOR: But the entertainment part.
PATIENT: Right.
COUNSELOR: And that too in here.
PATIENT: So I come off the entertainment high or that energy, and it's like... Now where will I go?
COUNSELOR: So there's some sense of wanting to entertain me here, to charm me or...
PATIENT: Or avoid me.
COUNSELOR: Right, right. But I wonder how it plays out between us, you know? That would it be like to be yourself in front of me? What would I think? Would I get bored if I were to find out who you really are or what you really feel or...
PATIENT: You got a glimpse of that.
COUNSELOR: I got...
PATIENT: I mean it's all the real me, but I mean I know what you're saying.
COUNSELOR: So you had a reaction to that, I mean something that I hear or something about what I said that doesn't sit right for you?
PATIENT: No, no, I just - no, for me, I know it's all me and I don't apologize for any of that.
COUNSELOR: And so it felt a little - something I said felt a little...
PATIENT: No, I was just kind of clarifying. Not so much what you said, but I was clarifying it to myself, probably say - agree with you and then saying, "Well, that's not true," because that's me too. The entertaining and the energy is me too. But then when that energy's done, it's like, you know, you step off stage and it's like, "I'm tired, what's it all about?"
I guess that's what it's like to practice being on stage, you know, and doing this, and maybe - and they're avoiding everything that's happening in their life. And then they get off stage and they realize "Well, I've got to go home and pay bills and clean the toilet now." And my cleaning the toilet, I guess, and being in here is talking about things I don't want to talk about.
COUNSELOR: Boy, I'm in a real weird senses today about working or this really  -
PATIENT: I'm really not trying to do this. And now I'm really trying to work and be focused.
COUNSELOR: Well, I'm not really trying not to blame you. I'm sensing somehow that we're not, and since it's working together, and I'm wondering, you know, or have a sense of  -
PATIENT: Chasing the car.
COUNSELOR: Yeah. It feels a bit. It feels a bit like - I don't know who's chasing who, but I think perhaps I'm chasing you and trying to say "Let's run together" and feeling like it's hard right now. [24:25]
PATIENT: Right.
COUNSELOR: Because what happens in here is very particular to you and me, although I think it probably has some implications for what happens when you were tarrying (ph) with your friends and your family. But I'm getting the - I'm having a hard time sort of working with you in terms of understanding what's happening between us. I mean it's like you take the ball and you run with it. You're taking things that I say and either blame yourself in it or just want to apply it to another story. And I'm feeling a little left out, like hey, you know... Does that make any sense to you at all?
PATIENT: Yeah, definitely.
COUNSELOR: Yeah, uh-huh? Okay.
PATIENT: So what can we do so we're on in the same car?
COUNSELOR: I'm wondering if you have any other reactions to it, to what I said?
PATIENT: To what you said?
COUNSELOR: Uh-huh. Are you just going to give me a break here or are you going to - is there any other reactions you have? Does it not make sense?
PATIENT: Oh no, it makes perfect sense. I mean I'll do the same thing with other - but I mean different because of our relationship and my relationship with anybody else. But no, I think that's a pretty good (inaudible at 26:07). Definitely.
COUNSELOR: So what is it about us working together on this part? What is it that might be difficult?
PATIENT: Well, I don't know. I think because when I come in through the door, then I go, "Okay, well, what am I going to bring to this today? What am I going to talk about?" So I figure, well, you know, I'll talk about what's upsetting to me in my dream, and then it kind of took off from there.
COUNSELOR: Is it a bit like it's your show in here?
PATIENT: Yeah.
COUNSELOR: You don't want me to be (chuckling).
PATIENT: Well, I know that intellectually you should be but...
COUNSELOR: I want top billing there, you know?
PATIENT: Right, right. I don't know. I don't know why - I really don't know why I feel like I have to come in. Because I guess because the silence is so hard. You know, like what will we do this day? You know, we've gone through this a hundred times before, like where we just stare at each other and...
COUNSELOR: Yeah, really get kind of uncomfortable and then what do we do.
PATIENT: Yeah.
COUNSELOR: But you know, I am here instead of running away from it, and maybe we can like just keep at it and figure out what it is.
PATIENT: But see, then it gets confusing to me, because if I come in here and say, "Well, I don't have to talk," and then I'll say, "Well, am I not talking because now that's what I'm supposed to be doing?"
COUNSELOR: So you always have to have a plan before you come in here?
PATIENT: Yeah.
COUNSELOR: That's just like whatever happens happens.
PATIENT: Tell me how to do that.
COUNSELOR: Well, maybe this is a good place to start.
PATIENT: Yeah, I could. I'll try next week.
COUNSELOR: (Chuckling).
PATIENT: Well, I can't from now; we're already - we've already driven miles already out of our way.
COUNSELOR: (Chuckling). Because they keep driving us out of here.
PATIENT: Yeah. [28:11]
COUNSELOR: This week. I'll be in the back seat.
PATIENT: Nah, why don't you drive?
COUNSELOR: Why don't I drive?
PATIENT: Yeah.
COUNSELOR: (Chuckling) no.
PATIENT: Your shoe drive.
COUNSELOR: Well, I guess I'm driving a bit right now.
PATIENT: No, you are. It's just down a bumpy road, I guess.
COUNSELOR: You don't like the road I chose?
PATIENT: I don't know if that means that all those things, well, that's like okay, well, like what you're saying now; how am I going to react to that? Should I react to that in a different way? Is this something that I want to take and use? Do you know what I'm saying?
COUNSELOR: It sounds like - well, I'm not sure. Can you say a little bit more about that?
PATIENT: Well, I'm trying to like - things that I've learned in here for myself that I like is that to make my own decisions and what's important to me you've never won. And John - John - Martin and I were talking about this. They're friends and as a couple they come here and they say, "Well, how's your shrink?" (Inaudible at 29:21) "She'll tell you, make suggestions, say what to do." I said, "So now there's all different types of therapies here." "Not really." I said "It's never really - like you'll ask a direct question and you'll get like a direct answer of a suggestion?" "Not really." I said, "Well, that's good. Then I know I'm on the same wavelength."
And those things, that I liked.
COUNSELOR: That I don't give suggestions. [29:46]
PATIENT: Because in the beginning I said, "This is what I want," and I would say what I want for you to say. "Well, wouldn't it make sense if you did this or didn't do this? You'd feel a certain way and you've never done that," which used to piss me off. But now I mean I really learned that it is much better the other way; that I am thinking for myself. You're kind of a soundboard that keeps me on track, on the road. When I'm jerking off you get me back into the game so... And that's good but...
So I'm trying to learn - so that I like, but then there might be something else. And you'll say, "Well, maybe you should stay with your feelings here." Well, maybe those are my feelings, where I'm at now. How do I know? Where do I say, "Well, all right, I'll go with her, I'll let her drive now," as opposed to "Let's fight over the wheel"?
COUNSELOR: But I don't recall you ever fighting with me over the wheel.
PATIENT: Well, maybe in my head I am.
COUNSELOR: Yeah. That's what's so difficult for me sometimes I think. So that makes it hard for me to know. "Hey, he just got the wheel. How did he get the wheel? He told that story; that's how he got the wheel. He distracted me. He said, 'Look out there' and grabbed the wheel." You know, it would be different I think if you kind of just said, "You know what? This is what I'm feeling right now. Then I'd feel  - " (cross talk)
PATIENT: Well, I guess because there's truth to it when you'll go, "Okay, well, what are you avoiding, in essence?" I mean there's truth to that. Because working in here, I agree that's something I want to do is be focused on how I'm feeling. And this whole thing with my family not being able to show feelings and... (Inaudible at 31:39) where I just have to drive over to the scenic outlook and (inaudible at 31:41) and I did talk to my mother.
COUNSELOR: Why are you doing that now?
PATIENT: Because we spoke about this.
COUNSELOR: Right, but I think this is kind of important to what you're saying, you know. I think you're telling me something important and I want to get it. [31:59]
PATIENT: Well, all right. That to me is important is to want to experience how I feel. And so if I get pissed off at you it's - or because then I can't stay with where I'm at, I can't stay on stage, and I've got to go back downstairs in the dressing room, keep preparing.
COUNSELOR: I'm wondering if at those times where - you're just convincing yourself so that I know better what you're feeling than you do.
PATIENT: Okay, that's what I don't know.
COUNSELOR: But that would be sort of familiar to you, isn't it? Not have to defer to say this person probably knows?
PATIENT: Yes.
COUNSELOR: And not to trust yourself?
PATIENT: Yes.
COUNSELOR: Not to take the risk and say, "Hey, wait a minute. I think I know what's going on here." Even if it takes sort of get angry if I seem to be missing something that you think is important or [to who you really are or really] (ph) affects who you are and what's going.
PATIENT: Um-hmm.
COUNSELOR: And I might not really be getting it.
PATIENT: Yeah. Very rarely do that.
COUNSELOR: You rarely...
PATIENT: Do that and tell you you're not getting it.
COUNSELOR: Yeah, I  -
PATIENT: Well, you are getting it.
COUNSELOR: It seems to happen sometimes.
PATIENT: Um-hmm. So but if so I came in this morning and did that and go, "Well, no, this is how I am feeling, I'm not avoiding anything so (inaudible at 33:37).
COUNSELOR: Boy, it would be so interesting here. I don't know what I'd think. I don't know.
PATIENT: I know you'd say (inaudible at 33:47).
COUNSELOR: Oh no (chuckling).
PATIENT: Let's talk about that anger.
COUNSELOR: Oh, I hate the way that sounds.
PATIENT: But you would say something like that. Or anyone in your position would. That you don't?
COUNSELOR: (Cross talk) supervision from first. Maybe...
PATIENT: Oh, no (chuckling).
COUNSELOR: Maybe I need a little direction from you.
PATIENT: But I mean - right? Isn't that your job? Because we don't talk about how happy I am, we only talk about the things that bother me, right?
COUNSELOR: No. I don't know why you have that assumption.
PATIENT: Well, I never felt that way.
COUNSELOR: Well, I don't think that it's my fault. (chuckling).
PATIENT: Well, if I would say something about that, "Oh, there might be something behind that." You'd say "I see something behind, something must be bothering you," or "Where's all the synergy coming from?" And maybe I would interpret and go "Oh, (inaudible at 34:40).
COUNSELOR: Yeah, yeah. I've often felt I'd have a lot of power that way and it would make you doubt yourself.
PATIENT: Do you take advantage of it?
COUNSELOR: Sometimes I probably do. You know, I never like the consequences though. I like to be right. Of course I like to be right. It's like have you think I'm smart or know what I'm doing or...
PATIENT: Well, I do think you're smart and know what you're doing. Sometimes.
COUNSELOR: Yeah. (chuckling).
PATIENT: I'm joking more now, every week.
COUNSELOR: No, it's up to you to assert yourself and tell me if I'm not getting it.
PATIENT: No, I do feel better about it, I really do. I didn't feel today that you weren't getting it. I know exactly what happened. You said, "Why are you racing so fast?" And I think because of being nervous and knowing that I do avoid things and will put on a show. But also that that's okay; that I can put on a show, that that's who I am. That is my temperament, except for when it's really important that I need to choose when to do that and when not to do that.
COUNSELOR: You mean to have a choice?
PATIENT: Yeah, that feels good.
COUNSELOR: Yeah.
PATIENT: All right, let's go.
COUNSELOR: All right, now, wait a minute (chuckling). Well, we tied that one up.
PATIENT: Well, I don't know how tied up it is, but that is good. I mean you just saying you do have a choice, that's true; I do. I'm still doing things about like I'm not making decisions or saying how I feel. You know, I did this week too, about worrying about how somebody else is going to feel and react to me. You know, I did that with my boss at work. Just ended up committing myself to two different things at one time and realizing "Darn, still, I still didn't learn anything. I'm still doing the same thing."
COUNSELOR: And it's hard.
PATIENT: I mean he's sitting there asking about working, and I know I can't work for him and I'm saying I can.
COUNSELOR: To please him.
PATIENT: To please him, to be liked, or a small part of it because it might work out better for me financially, you know, but mostly so because I'm there. You know, I'm his man, I'm there. You know, I know he doesn't give a shit about me, you know.
COUNSELOR: He really doesn't have your best interests...
PATIENT: No. He is so, so selfish. And me thinking, even saying now to myself, "I don't have to have this job." I hate to lose it because it's so damn easy, but I could always do something else. My friend Will always says, "Fuck him, you know," he goes, "You don't need this job," and it's true in some ways. It's just the easiest thing I've ever done for the money.
COUNSELOR: And it's easy to do that. I mean you do that; that's a pattern, right?
PATIENT: Well, what's that? Please him?
COUNSELOR: Well, to sort of sacrifice your own needs, and what you feel you know is right and best for you to sort of please other people. [38:04]
PATIENT: Yeah, well, yesterday I went to him and I just said, "Look, I made a huge mistake. I'm double booked. I've got to get out of this working for you Friday night." Planted the seed with him. And of course I made the commitment to the other people first. It's cash. And I mean even - there's a hard part on that. I want to come up with this great way to phrase this so other people can use it, but I don't know how to. About like being able to say, "Okay, December 1st I'm leaving this job. I'm going to make money as an artist. I'm not going to need this job anymore." Okay, there's one way to think positively.
But the other way is to be realistic, because I've done this before and it hasn't worked, and I've been worse off and end up having to look for another job. So how do you know the difference between being positive and say "I'm going to get this and I'm not going to need this job," as opposed to being realistic? It's like, you know, I don't think I'll be here, but I may need to be here, because I'll always be able to fall back on it, knowing that it's there. You know what I'm saying? You know, people always saying, "Read all the books." And I'll say, "Well, now unless you take that leap and you let go and know that you can let go..."
I guess the difference is just like you said last week. It's not a thing that you do, it's just a state of being; a state of being that knowing that I don't have to have this job. I'm good enough, I'm resourceful enough, a good enough business person to be able to get myself out of this job.
COUNSELOR: Is there something about that dilemma that makes you kind of sad?
PATIENT: Yeah, because I don't want to let - it's scary to let go of that job. And in the past I've done it just to say, okay, I'm going to do it and I'm going to throw caution to the wind, and ended up screwing myself, you know, with money. But I think the difference is there is definitely a difference between saying it and being it. And I don't know what it will take for me to believe in myself that I can let go and do it (inaudible at 40:18) successes. [40:19]
COUNSELOR: So the concerns still are the work still and the learning to believe in yourself at this point.
PATIENT: Um-hmm.
COUNSELOR: And I sense that that brings up some - I mean I get the feeling that brings up some strong feelings (inaudible at 40:36) that issue.
PATIENT: Which issue?
COUNSELOR: The quest for some kind of self acceptance and peace of mind?
PATIENT: It must be, because I was ready this article and this woman decided to take up boxing and she's a writer for the Chicago Sun. And there's one line in there and she wrote she was - I'm not sure. It kept saying, you know, boxing you have to have heart, and I finally know what heart means. A heart means desire, and I had endless bounds of desire.
And it's like I was starting to cry reading this article, because people who had somebody in their - like Rocky; I love Rocky movies, doing them, because they're always in there and going - there goes swinging - "No pain, no pain, no pain, Rocky," and slapping him around and it's no pain. "You're the best, you're the best," and it's like I cry every time I watch it because nobody's ever told me that. You know, somebody could just slap me in the head all the time and go, "You bastard, no pain, no pain." It's like that would be great. And when she had this from this trainer, "You got heart, girl."
That's why it's so important that children need this, you know, and I never got that. It's just awful. You know, with my little brother I tell him that all the time when I was working with him. Just "You're the best, you're so intelligent, you're creative," and he'd get so embarrassed because he never that. He got, "You're an idiot." That's all he got at home. "You're a loser."
COUNSELOR: And you didn't get that. [42:13]
PATIENT: No. So every time I see that or hear it, it just makes me cry. I mean I think it just reinforces how much I need - that we all need that
COUNSELOR: A lot of anger about (inaudible at 42:35)
PATIENT: Yeah. Not a lot. I mean it's waning.
COUNSELOR: Is it?
PATIENT: It depends. I mean times when you hit me. You know, I finally had a final talk with my mother the other day, Sunday, I didn't feel anger, because I had anger. I wrote a lot of anger in my letter. I got a letter from her, I wrote her a letter back, and told her she's to be responsible for her feelings and it was the only way we could have a relationship.
And when we talked on the phone she said, "Well, hit me with it." I said, "I'll hit you with everything. I just want to know what you'll respond to." And as she's talking I'm just still thinking, you know, it's just not going to be good. But the one thing that I did say that I didn't want to say that was so hard was to say like what I've learned in here is that - I mean she keeps saying "We all have to try to get along." I said "We spent 30 years trying. It's not going to work. You don't get it." And I said, "It's really okay if we don't all get along. Who said we all had to get along all the time? And who said..."
I said, "What I need from you, Mom, is like when you're frustrated or when you're angry and you're sad, you say that." I said, "You've never shown how you've felt. You've always told me and everybody else that we just - you'll get over it, just be happy." And she said something that so surprising and I actually believed her. She said, "You know what? You're right." She said, "We've just never really learned how to communicate our feelings that are important now, have we?"
COUNSELOR: Cares.
PATIENT: So it was really nice.
COUNSELOR: Um-hmm.
PATIENT: It was one of the few things in there that I actually bought from her. None of the things I think... She was trying hard to say the right things. Where have I ever heard that from?
So I leave the conversation and go, "All right, well, we'll see what happens." And what she asked in return is that when I'm angry at her, tell her. "I'm angry at you. I'm not going to talk to you for a while now." She said, "As long as I know."
COUNSELOR: Wow. Sounds like you got through to each other.
PATIENT: Yeah.
COUNSELOR: You got through to her?
PATIENT: Well, I think a little bit anyway. You know, but thank you for your help.
COUNSELOR: Hey, I'm not going to have that conversation.
PATIENT: Yeah, but you - no, but it was helpful. And I just want you to know because I do like having you happy for me, because I feel like I'm this close to being cured from my public transportation phobia. Really, really close. I don't want to say yet, because I can't say, "Okay, I'm going downtown." Well, of course we'll take a subway, but we're taking a subway and we're going downtown. See, I still say that first because that still springs anxiety.
But getting through the other day was just tremendous, and then taking the train to 89th Street, which is the only train for 30 minutes. So the only thing that made me nervous was guys getting on, drinking beer, playing really loud rap music in the little D (ph) train. And finally someone said to me, "What are you graphing?" Because I do a graph. I keep a graphing card.
And now I'm actually looking forward to seeing Cory tomorrow, because we're going to go downtown. He thinks we're going to go on trains that are slow, but each time we're going on a train that's supposed to slow it's never slowed where it's supposed to be. And it doesn't need to be. Because me thinking that it will makes me nervous, which is good. Nerves are good because then I can work on it to draw it so... [46:24]
COUNSELOR: You mean when you're on the train and it slows down that's when...
PATIENT: I was just sitting there and I realized that the train was slowing, there was these kids. Try and sit with kids, because whenever I get nervous I look at their eyes, and they're just, wow. It's very relaxing.
But I was just sitting there, and all of a sudden it just hit me. I go, "Oh yeah," even though I knew this. This train, or it's the stall train, has nothing to do with the way I feel, nothing. That's just my interpretation of it, and that's about done my interpretation of it. I don't need to feel that way. And I realize, which is nothing. Kind of like what, you know, we're talking about in here is that when I first get that fear and it's tingling up my toes and I feel my balance start to go, I go "That's just totally harmless. It doesn't mean anything, you know?" So it's kind of a nice balance.
COUNSELOR: You've taken the danger out of that environment.
PATIENT: And if a real emergency would happen, I wouldn't be anxious. I learned (inaudible at 47:32) I'd actually be doing something. I'd be dealing with the danger.
COUNSELOR: I don't understand.
PATIENT: Let's say somebody comes on the train and they're going to put a gun to Beth's head and take her and try to rape her in the back of the car. It's my biggest fear; she thinks the same thing too (chuckling). Or fires on the train. Well, then there's something really for me to focus on. I can't focus on the fear of fear, because before that that's all it is, because me being afraid that this might happen, which turns into panic for me.
COUNSELOR: You feel like your fear of riding the train or the panic that comes from it, like horrible fantasy like that? Is that what you mean?
PATIENT: Well, no. I mean fear, my fear, the panic comes from me being afraid the train could stop and something horrible would happen. [48:15]
COUNSELOR: And something horrible would happen.
PATIENT: Yeah. That's why I've said I'm so much more comfortable - if I were to be in a stopped elevator I'd rather be alone, because I wouldn't be embarrassed. And the danger of somebody else freaking out and... But if they did, I learned it would be okay, because then I'd actually have something real to focus on. The other thing isn't real; it's fake.
COUNSELOR: Yeah. Hmm. Interesting.
PATIENT: It's been a good learning experience for other aspects of my life.
COUNSELOR: Um-hmm. Um-hmm. I'm interested to hear that. I'm glad it's worked out so well for you.
PATIENT: You know, thanks, but Ann, in this odd little way, you're very, very helpful. You've been doing it for 20 years. And when I hear him tell me that people that - the woman he sees before me is hydrophobic, I go "God, I've got it made compared to what she has to deal with." I mean I imagine my panic in multiple and hundred times. She can't go here, she can't go there, she can't go out. She is now but... Such a bad thing.
Somehow I want to be able to translate this to be able to help other people with it. I'm not an expert and I don't want to even pretend to even be a phobi-aide (ph), I'm not trained in it, but I, for some way, just want to develop some kind of outline to be able to be a - what do you call these guys? - like Les Brown and - motivational speakers. I want to share that. I have a friend that's deathly afraid of elevators. I give her this guy's number and I tell her my experience and she won't do it. She's never going to have that panic because she's never going to get in an elevator again. I wish she could. I wish she could see the benefits of pain, how good it is to be in pain and then get through it. The rewards are twice as great, the more pain you're in; I realized that Saturday.
COUNSELOR: And it sounds (Inaudible at 50:24) face up to the pain and have the courage to do it.
PATIENT: Well, yeah. I got the feelings, the nerves. I got down off the train and I just - I said, "It's too bad, you're going through with this. We're doing this, this desire." It goes back to the heart and desire, and as long as you have the desire you can get through it. And it's hard when you have the desire but you don't believe it. And I have a desire to be a great actor, but that fear always gets in the way. Or I have a desire to have the chiseled body that I want now without spending two hours in the gym today.
COUNSELOR: What about tonight? Will you face up to that?
PATIENT: Well, I'm here. I will definitely...
COUNSELOR: Pain of failure?
PATIENT: Yeah. Well, we'll see if it feels like failure. I mean I am...
COUNSELOR: Well, I guess it's a risk you always take when you get  -
PATIENT: Well, I'm going to go. There's no way that I would not go. Anytime I don't feel like doing something I just think about train rides and facing that. I guess I just have to apply it more on a daily basis of doing something instead of avoiding it. But I mean when you're your own boss you don't have to. I go to work, I'll go to work now, I'll polish silver, I'll do whatever I have to do and stay. Why don't I do that with myself? Why don't I say, "Okay, I'm going to work now at 10 o'clock and I'm going to do A, B, C, D for so many hours." It's so much harder to be disciplined for myself than be responsible for somebody else.
COUNSELOR: Why do you think that is?
PATIENT: Because it's easier to fuck off and go do something else.
COUNSELOR: Than what? [52:16]
PATIENT: Than sit there and feel like how "I don't want to do this."
COUNSELOR: Well, what's that about? "I don't want to do this."
PATIENT: It's just too hard. It's hard, yeah.
COUNSELOR: Too hard to think this is  -
PATIENT: It's hard. It's not comfortable.
COUNSELOR: It's uncomfortable not knowing how to do what it is, knowing what, you know, it might come out looking like, facing all that fear.
PATIENT: Yeah. I've been thinking about hiring somebody to work with me. One of Beth's teachers is an artist, and she has the same problem as an artist; having to make herself. But she's come out with a system to make goals and stuff. I've kind of been loosely following it through Beth, and it works. But no one - the thing is I realize I don't need her for that. No one can help me make me do the goals. I can have the plan, but if I don't follow it what's the difference? You know, only me can make me sit down and do the work.
COUNSELOR: Right. I mean you're the - be the one that has to develop the tolerance or the interest in those feelings that come up.
PATIENT: Right.
COUNSELOR: I mean it's not just a matter of tolerating, it's also, you know, kind of an interest in that. (inaudible at 53:25)
PATIENT: So if I just keep remembering that, if I get through this pain of reward and can be creative, once I sit down and write, it's good.
COUNSELOR: Yeah.
PATIENT: I've got to go.
COUNSELOR: Okay.
END TRANSCRIPT
