*TEXT-PV010003 Wednesday, September 25, 1968                5653
______________________________________________________________________________
PATIENT:  I wanted to ask if there's any ladies room or anything that I could ever go into at the end of the session.
ANALYST:   In the hallway, to your right, as you go out.
PATIENT:  In the major hall or right outside?
ANALYST:   Yes, right, no, no, in the main hallway, to the right.
PATIENT:  There are really 2 things on my mind right now.  One is that yesterday after leaving, no, before I came too, I felt sort of upset and probably nervous and then after I left, I felt, I thought I'd be alright  but I felt even worse.  And, again it was almost as if I were fighting even just letting things come into my mind that were beginning to come into  my mind.  I don't know but it was -- once before I had a similar thing when I think I was trying not to face things and then it got me very  worried that this would happen every time.  Right now it's gone away.  I hope this will continue.
ANALYST:   How did you feel, can you describe it?
PATIENT:  Uhm, I suppose a stomachache more than anything else.  And I couldn't eat, I couldn't stand to smell food and I felt sort of nauseous, but not really, you know, wouldn't ever come to being sick.  But uhm, just very nervous too.  And I was kind of surprised at that because, uhm, I don't know, some things that I suppose come to my mind but I don't say now.  I just feel too silly to say and that I didn't think would make me feel that upset.  And I wasn't aware of what could have made me feel that upset.  (Silence) But then this morning when I got up I began to feel that way again, then I got involved in work at school, and it just never came back.
The other thing that was on my mind is uhm, something that happened in school today.  One of the girls that is an assistant in the same grade I'm in suddenly left school today and, and she's obviously very upset about something, I think quite, I think she has a lot of problems and she just suddenly couldn't handle things any more and she left.  And she's a person that -- she was there last year and uhm, I never had to work with her terribly closely.  But since she's with the same age group, I do see her on occasion and on occasion we have to cooperate on different things.  And I never thought I could communicate with her and again I assumed it might just be me.  The person that she was directed by also felt strange with her, but again, I thought well, maybe just the two of us don't understand her because she had other close friends there who liked her very much.  And, I just had a whole series of reactions when I heard this, that she had really become, she, she was just in an awful state and -- (pause)
I don't know, I suppose I, I always assume, I, I, and I find this with boys too, that I don't give them the benefit of the doubt at first.  I'm beginning to now, but uhm, I'm almost inclined to have to dominate them first and if they aren't easily dominated then I, I, or responsive to me, then I assume the worst, or just that I can't get along.
This also happened to me this year, which had already made me aware, because a boy lost his father and he had been a real behavior problem the first 2 days of school.  And I had been afraid of letting anything develop so I had been quite strict with him, and then -- I, I had never been told his father was even sick.  But when I realized that, uhm, it made everything very clear and, and he's been fine since, because I'm sure I've  been very different with him.  And also, he's been trying very hard.
But, just the reaction I've had just in these 2 cases has been sort of startling.  And I think maybe I felt kind of pleased in a way that it was her and not me, the girl that uhm left school.  And then I felt very badly for her, because sometimes I felt almost that way.  And, and so then I felt well, I, know how she must have felt too.  And it was just the whole range of feelings all together at one time.
ANALYST:   So you must be worried that you too might become overwhelmed.
PATIENT:  Well, I've often been, not often but I have been worried in the past.  Sometimes I felt so tight and, I don't know, I mean, I just, it's almost like I'm, if, if I were having a tantrum how I'd be.  And then I just feel as if I just can't handle anything and, and I just want to scream and everything.
But I did think I understood how she felt because, uhm, right when she was leaving I ran into her, I was coming up with some boys in the elevator and she was about to get in it and I just assumed she was going down to the teachers' room but she said, in what I realize now was panicked voice, "Oh, no, no, no!" and ran back into her room and then came out again.  And I, I assumed at the time that she had just forgotten something and she was in a real hurry and you know, she was exclaiming because she was going to miss the elevator or something.  But uhm, must have been just that she just had no idea what to do and just didn't have any control and then it makes me feel just awful because I almost feel as if I'm in her place when I think about it.  And also, you think back on occasions when you might have been sharp with her or definitely not understanding and that -- I suppose I, I myself couldn't have done a thing to help her really, because from the little I've heard she has had problems for a long time.  But you just wonder how much you might have contributed to making things easier for her.  (Silence)
And I have found just from my relationship with roommates at college and, and I guess just friends in general that if I can control myself in a certain aspect of living then I expect it of others.  And I  have  absolutely no understanding if they can't have the same control.  But if I can, if I meet any problems in control in certain areas or have any weaknesses that I can realize, then I am extremely understanding if somebody else were the same way.  And I can't seem to adjust that.  I go all the way or in either one of those directions.  (Pause)
And another reaction that I think that I had to her was (pause) one of, well, I don't know how much she is able to face what's happening to her and to realize that she must have to get some help somewhere.  But the fact that I feel somewhat more aware of my situation, then I feel well, now I can really be almost motherly (chuckle) to her or something, you know, the benign person.  And then I begin to think well, that's awful, to feel that way too.  (4-Minute silence)
I still feel I have to sort of formulate my (chuckle) thoughts before I put them into words.  (Pause) I think I still feel uhm, I have to have some  kind of interchange in order to do this.  Because, I don't know, I just think sometimes if I am talking to my husband and, (pause) it's not  the  same as this, but it's almost, some things upset me.  And I'm just talking about anything that's coming into my mind in relation to what's upset me and really all he can do is listen.  He can't say very much except, "I'm listening."  But I get very demanding that he make a response  and  extremely upset if he doesn't just make a response, even if I don't even listen to it or pay any attention to anything he may add as advice or  comment.  In fact, anyway, just in general I think if we're talking about something I have to be reassured that he's listening and agreeing usually.  Or if he's not agreeing I can't stand the suspense of his not telling me immediately.
ANALYST:   So, are you feeling upset that I didn't respond?
PATIENT:  No, I just feel as if my mind suddenly goes blank (chuckle).  And I, something might come to my mind and then I'll think like, well, that seems kind of silly to say or well, that's not quite the way to say it or, you know, things like that.  So then I don't say it.  Or else it's sort of vague and I'm not too sure exactly what it is I'm thinking.  (Pause)
I think, maybe I don't remember.  Before, probably yesterday too, I got, I was feeling rather sort of antagonistic to you because I knew you wouldn't respond but I kept thinking you should or I wanted you to so I wouldn't be able to go on.  And although I don't I didn't feel I could say things some of the times, I mean just, I couldn't find the words or I don't know, I might have been feeling too tense or something but sometimes I was almost thinking I think, well, I'll just say nothing.  (Pause)
In fact, I know, I, I, think I must do this fairly quickly with a lot of people if I don't get a response or the response that I wanted.  Sometimes I don't care which way it is, agreement or disagreement, as long as I know which way it is.  But I get very impatient and abrupt if I don't get it right away, whatever it's going to be.  (Pause)
In fact, this is one of the things I think used to happen with this girl I mentioned earlier.  And again it was partly this problem of communicating with her which several people seem to have had.  But her  responses are just either very weird or else they just weren't there.  And I'd make some attempts and then, then I just get annoyed at her and walk out of the room or something, because I just couldn't stand to be near her anymore when, when I was having this problem of communicating.  Or I'd come  in to ask something and I'd wait a while and then there'd be a lull or something so I'd ask her if she were talking to another person and she would just go right on, she'd pick it up, the conversation she'd been having and go on again and this is another thing.  It, it's not just her, but  if this happens with anybody I guess I expect immediate attention.
I also have the problem if I come into the room and the talking stops.  Then I'm, well I used to be always sure they were talking about me.  Now I don't always think that but always feel very uncomfortable and feel I have to suddenly sort of get things going again.  I just can't come in quietly and sit there and let continue what might have been continuing.  Or I can't use good sense and leave if I can tell I've interrupted something that's none of my business.  Because I think then sometimes I'm tempted to stick around so then I can find (chuckle) out what was going on too.  I don't like anything to happen that I don't know about.  (Pause)
Well, I sort of despise myself sometimes, especially I was just thinking about school.  There's I think in any school a lot of gossiping, but at this school there were some problems in past years with the supervisor which led to more gossiping.  And I worked under a girl for a while who was quite the gossiper.  And, and I don't know, it was just the whole atmosphere of the place.  And because I was in the position to not hear a lot of it, I wanted to.  But I wasn't the one that a lot of people would come to with any little bits of gossip.  And so then I became very above it all and I was going to be the kind, because I didn't approve of it, and I wasn't going to indulge in it.  But then at the least little  chance I had, I'd dive right in and be just as catty about somebody as the next person.  And, and yet I can see myself doing it and I'd despise myself, but I couldn't resist the feeling of being included, I guess.  (Pause)
And once, I don't know how much I initiated this, I have a feeling I initiated the whole thing, and, and I'm not conscious of any guilty feelings now, but I know I once had them and I probably still do.  Uhm, when I was in 7th grade there was a girl who had been a childhood friend because our parents were good friends from the moment we could start playing with each other.  And we had had our usual good times and then times when we fought and so forth.  And I don't think, and I think I knew this, or sensed it then, that she was ever going to be the kind of girl I'd really be close to, but we were sort of thrown together and she was nice enough.
But in 7th grade there were four of us that did a lot together and had been and this girl and I were sort of like stooges to the other two.  The other two were very imaginative and always full of plans and the two of us just always seemed to always plod around and follow their directions and so forth.  They didn't, they weren't misusing us but still I, I was enough aware so that I wanted to have more of a part of the leader I think in this kind of a group.  And this made me uhm sort of turn to her to uhm take things out on her that I was feeling about the whole relationship of the group.  So that, so, sometimes during the year I suggested that we ostracize her from the group and one of the girls agreed.  I don't know why, I can't think, think of what reason, now, we had for this.  But the other girl uhm, which, and this surprised me, didn't want to go along with it because she thought it would be mean.  And although she didn't have that much to do with uhm the girl we ostracized after that, she did remain friendly with her and on occasion go to her rather than to us.
And I think this -- although it was a very mean thing and must have been awful for the girl, which is what's made me feel guilty -- I think in a way it helped her.  Because then she really had to stand out on her own and make her own friends and develop herself in a way that I don't think I did for a long time, after that.  And so then when I saw what I'd done, I began to feel guilty and I also began to feel very (chuckle) jealous that she had had, this, she had been able to make such a good thing of such an awful thing that happened to her.  So, so after that I tried to make up to her and you know, and several years after, and at that point she kind of had the dominant role over me because of my guilty feelings.  And, and of course I didn't like that either.
ANALYST:   How old were you then?
PATIENT:  I think I was 7th grade, I, 13 I guess, I can't remember.  But I think I always had sort of a feeling of being a little bit superior to her which is belied by a lot of things that have happened to us.  But I don't know why I felt that way.  And at one time she was given the award of something, then I think I got the, what might be the award and then or honorable mention and I remember being shocked that she was the one who got it over me.  I, you know, it could have been any other girl over me, but that she did, I just couldn't believe it because I was just sure I was a more superior person.
And we both ended up applying to the same college.  And uhm I knew, because my older sister had gone to the same college, that I was going to be  accepted because the admissions people told the older sisters, I think a few days ahead, and so she had called home.  But then this girl had gotten her reception in the mail earlier and she'd gone around telling everybody.  And I got very upset because I couldn't (chuckle) tell everybody at the same time.  You know, there have been lots of little sort of petty things in that relationship.
And somehow, I think after -- (pause) well, I don't know when I began to feel this way, but I guess it's part of always feeling I have something to make up to her.  I've almost, well I can't think of the word that would describe how I feel toward her.  It's still a mixture of in some ways feeling that there's more to me than there is to her.  She is a very phlegmatic kind of person and I suppose this is one reason why I sometimes felt superior.  Just simply because I wasn't the same type of person and I always assumed naturally that people had to have the same kind of nature as me to be as good.  But on the other hand, because of the way she responded a long time ago to her situation and I didn't think I ever could have responded that way, I admired her and felt sort of, not infer--, I don't know if inferior is the word, but (pause) I don't know, I just can't (pause) I don't know, sort of subdued by her.  I'm not, I don't know, I just can't think of the word that would describe how it made me feel.  (Silence)
But in the end I think it, I think it led to us to be better friends in a way because I was more, there would be more give and take in our relationship once the whole thing got kind of pushed in the background.  (Silence)
It's funny too because uhm it just made me think of the year I went to PEC.  I think I also went, well, I'd always compared my making friends and the kind of friends I had and my ability to have friends with my older sister.  And all through high school and all through college I used to think she just had wonderful friends.  And I kept thinking, why aren't there any such wonderful people around me as there are around her, just for me to choose to be friends?  I didn't even feel they were there.  And I just kept thinking well, she's lucky that in her class there are all these nice people.
And then the year I went to PEC, uhm, I remained in correspondence with several of my friends some of whom I just don't see now.  Because now we're practically next door to each other and we all get busy in our own lives and that's what happens.  But when this was happening to me in PEC and we were corresponding as we were, I just took another look and realized I hadn't ever really thought about the people I was being friendly with just for itself and I realized I'd had this other view.  I was taking it from what I thought my sister had for friends and then applying it without looking at the people themselves that I had right near me.  But I still think that feeling that I grew up with for so long has colored my ability to make friends.  And I've always just kind of assumed that -- well, it's not this entirely -- but I've always kind of assumed that I really can't make friends very well and that I'm lucky if I have 1 or 2 friends.  And then that's all I should really hope for.  (Pause)
And I know one girl that, uhm, I met through, she's married to a fellow in my husband's office when, she's the kind of person that is, well, as much as she doesn't know what she wants to do, she still has the pretty strong mind of her own.  And uhm she relates very honestly with people and is very direct and you know immediately know what her failings are and what her strengths are.  And you can take her or leave her as she is and she doesn't, you know, I don't think she spends a lot of time thinking about it.  Or if she does she doesn't give that impression.  And so she is a very refreshing person to be with.  And of course, she would meet people easily and she has quite a lot of friends.  And I know sometimes when she's talking about somebody, my, I, what I want to do, although usually I stop myself, is ask her, "Well, how do you meet these people?  How do you know them so well?" and you know, "Just kind of give me the steps you use for making friends."
And then of course, hearing about -- I don't know if I'd want quite her life -- but hearing about all these different people that they're such good friends with -- and we've met some and they're all very nice -- so it does end up making me feel envious.  And I'm afraid maybe I'll start doing the same thing I did with my sister.  (Pause)
I suppose part of it is, I just need other people too much.  And if I could stop needing other people too much then I could really start being able to communicate with them and get along with them and I don't know, appreciate them.  I remember once a -- I think I was a sophomore at college -- and a good friend of mine who uhm was the kind who could date anybody and have a good time even if she didn't ever want to go out with the same fellow again, uhm, and she was once trying to talk me into a blind date.  And I wasn't dating very much that year and didn't really want to.  And, probably wanted to and was afraid of it, just generally was withdrawing from it.  And she tried to explain to me how you could, no matter what the person was like, see something that you could enjoy for a short time in anybody.  And she didn't really come out and say it, but she was implying that I didn't really look for anything like that in people, or certainly not situations where it was a blind date and I wished I weren't in the situa-- in, you know, there for that evening.
And I've often thought about what she was saying then and I think it did help me somewhat, made me look a little bit more at the individual for what he was in himself; he being anybody.  Although often I'd get too busy just in, you know, school work, homework, anything, and living, and I'd forget to, because I'd have to do it consciously.  (Silence)
Is it better to force yourself to say something that you feel sort of not ready to say?
ANALYST:   Well, what was the rule I told you?  Or what did I say was your job?
PATIENT:  (Chuckle) I've been putting a lot out of my mind.  (Pause)
ANALYST:   One thing I have noticed.  I'm not sure what to make of it.  Uhm, uhm, I'm not sure whether you're aware of it.  I don't think you've referred to anybody by their name up to now.
PATIENT:  No.  I have been aware of it every once in a while.
ANALYST:   Is there a special reason for that?
PATIENT:  Well, I think it's the only time I become aware of the fact that there is a tape recorder and --
ANALYST:   Ah.
PATIENT:  But that's not it entirely.  I think it might be -- probably too, I'm saying well, some things I'm probably saying for the first time ever, and some things, I'm saying that I just, you know I would hardly ever say to anybody and only maybe to my husband or somebody really close.  So, I almost feel as if I can't bring, you know, I have to keep a certain anonymy (sic).
ANALYST:   Or what will happen?
PATIENT:  (Chuckle) that's it, I know it ridiculous.  Well, also I guess by naming them I get a little bit too close to it.  (Pause)
What I was thinking about before, it's going to have to come up some time so I guess I better just say it, uhm, I was thinking back to when I was in PEC and uhm, well, there was just a, there were a lot of things that happened to me and, and circumstances around my going and everything that I will probably be talking about.
But in particular, uhm my parents had, and my father mainly, had been uhm very hesitant for me to go because I'd be staying with the family and tutoring their children and then also just speaking English generally with whoever wanted to.  And uhm, my parents distrusted the man of the family, Mr. RFT and felt that, well I don't know, I mean it was more just he was sort of Eastern as he was in his approach to women.  And I just thought that they were being, because, foolish, because he was my father's age and I looked upon him in that capacity, if any, and didn't ever think anything of it.
And uhm, one night before they met -- he and his wife met me several times before I went to PEC, because they were in PNOTS for a year and that's how I had met them at all.  And one time I was supposed to be coming in to meet them and then he called to say that his wife and children had had to stay down in PKW, they had been in PKW, but he'd be there and could I join him for dinner.  And again, I just did it without even thinking about it and afterwards -- my parents weren't home when I went out -- and when they came back and found out what I did they were absolutely furious.  And I thought well, you know, they're just being ridiculous because again, nothing happened while I was there.
But uhm, then when I was in PEC, uhm, he seemed to be very fond of his wife and his family and again, there seemed to be nothing strange and I met some other girls who were -- some who were doing a similar type of thing as I was, only in a more informal basis, you know -- they would just be there and then apply through newspapers and things for jobs.  And one girl was complaining how places she went the men always assumed that she'd be their mistress at the same time as tutoring the children, and things like that.  So then I began to think well maybe there was something in this, as far as their attitude, that QECS (people in PEC) would have and I suppose I began to notice a little more what was going on, or at least became more aware when things began to happen.
But I never was too sure, because I just didn't, it hadn't occurred to me before then and I, I, just didn't think it could be happening and uhm, he began to want to take walks with me and if we ever did go out on a walk -- and I didn't like it and I didn't think his wife did -- but sometimes it just seemed like, I didn't have the courage to say no, or I didn't know how to say not without being really horrible, so I'd end up doing it and then try to keep my distance the whole time we were on a walk, and he would always, always get on the topic of love and free love and the way the QECS feel about it and all these things.  But he would never get anything personal, and I don't know, then some other things happened but nothing ever really developed so that I had to worry.
And when I came back I was talking to my father and I just at one point described something like the walks and I, oh, I guess at one point if it was fairly cool out he had said, "Why don't you hold my hand so we can keep warm," or something.  And that was when I think I really began to get worried and really withdrew from him.  But uhm, anyway, my father then again said, "Well you see I was right.  I knew it all the time."  And again, I still felt well, I just don't know whether this is what was happening or not.
And then the next year I was taking courses at RZG and in the summer I had practice teaching and the man who was my master teacher was uhm a very dynamic kind of person, and he was very concerned about getting those who were under him ready for teaching and he felt that one of the things to get you ready was to make you search your soul and realize what you were and what, all the things that you have to do if you're really going to teach well.  And uhm I admired him quite a bit and again I turned to him as if I would to a father, although he was much younger than my father, and uhm, then at one point I think I just sensed that there was something more there than just my turning to him as a master teacher and especially on his reaction to me and then on my reaction to him.
And having come right after the experience in PEC I just began to wonder what it is I do that, uhm -- I don't know if it's flirting -- but just what is it I try to see in men?  And I think this man at one point even said to me that uhm, I don't know why -- I was trying to think of frame of references -- this came in, but that I was looking toward people in gen--, men in general as father uhm, not husband, but, you know, a person to date and a person to have as a father or father and lover kind of thing.  And it got me kind of worried because so often, as with these two men, I got in it far enough so they might have felt encouraged before I realized, and then I didn't know whether if it ever, if they hadn't, or especially if this man who was my master teacher hadn't been responsible about it, it could have perhaps gotten to the point where I couldn't extricate myself from it.  And then I didn't know what I did want from it anyway.  I think I felt pleased that they were attracted to me but I didn't really want anything to happen.  (Pause)
And this is sometimes -- I mean no situation has really occurred when we've been anywhere like cocktail parties, but just with morality being what it is today, or things happening as they are today, I've sometimes been kind of worried again that I might in a situation where people have had too much to drink lead somebody on beyond where he'll stop and then, and I won't realize I've been doing it consciously, although maybe unconsciously I do, and, and then I might be in a real situation.  (Pause)
Or sometimes at college when I'd be on a date -- and again the norm seemed to be that you'd start (pause) well, you'd at least have to sit around and kiss a fellow for a while or maybe even petting or something that I would put up with -- a lot I didn't care for at all -- just so that I wouldn't have to create a scene and say, "No, stop!"  Because I couldn't seem to draw the line pleasantly or jokingly without hating the boy (chuckle) and just wanting to get out of the whole weekend or evening.  (Silence)
And also, this reaction that I do have to some men as this master teacher, I just wonder what it means about me.  Whether this is a natural thing, or if it means I am really not happy with my husband.  (Pause) Because that's a whole thing in itself.  I, I think in many ways I can't imagine being married to anybody but MSC and I feel very happy with him.   But sometimes I just can't respond to him in a way that I think really means loving a person, in just being considerate and that type of thing and thinking of him first before me and wanting to please him and have him be pleased and that type of thing.  I think it's gotten better lately.  And sometimes I'm sure I do love him but I think, I know at the beginning of our marriage I would tell myself I loved him, but I don't think I really believed it.
ANALYST:   Well, time's up.
