TRANSCRIPT OF AUDIO FILE:
______________________________________________________________________________
BEGIN TRANSCRIPT:
THERAPIST: Hey.
CLIENT: I'm really tired because I had an essay due yesterday like 11:59pm because it was the online class I can submit it late and I procrastinated a really long time but also I didn't look at the description of the essay and it turned out to be this book about this little ninety-eight page book called Letter to a Christian Nation about specific arguments that he made about why religion is bad or whatever. But I had read it while I was on vacation and I had enjoyed it so I kind of just sped through it literally it's like this big, like ninety-eight pages, I read it in like an hour or two. And so I ended up having to, not only did I procrastinate but I hadn't looked ahead of time. So then when I finally looked I was completely overwhelmed, like oh my God I have to read again, basically all this stuff. So I ended up deciding to use Ritalin in the way that it is not supposed to be used and almost pulled an all-nighter and got like two hours of sleep
THERAPIST: Oh my goodness. [00:01:03]
CLIENT: and then went to work yesterday, and then had class after work, and then I only got like seven hours last night so I feel a little bit better, but I'm still just kind of like achy and like (groans) I just want to sleep for twenty hours. But so my vacation was awesome. I ended up really, my mom and I got along really well. I mean there were a couple little things I got annoyed with her and picked on her for. One of which is I have the habit of picking my cuticles too and it's like an ancient thing that I've done since childhood, but my mom for some reason, I don't know if she just has dry skin or what but she gets cuts, but then she just keeps picking them. But she does it like we're sitting at the dinner table at my aunt's house and we finished the dinner, I think we were just talking, but she's sitting there doing her thing and it bothers me that she does it like that even though I bit my cuticles, but whatever. And there's like a pile of skin and I'm like mom that's so gross, stop, you know. And she really hates it when I ask her to stop. Anyway so little things like that. And then she snores and I think it has a little bit to do with she's older and whatever, but it does have something to do with her weight also. And so at first it wasn't so bad and she's using something that's supposed to make it better and also brought me ear plugs, but when you're like five feet away from somebody it doesn't really matter and it just got progressively worse throughout the week in terms of how much I could sleep through it. [00:02:31] So that was irritating and we have to rethink vacations in the future because I can't stay in the same room as her anymore, I just can't. But otherwise it was really good and then we ended up making the drive back in one trip. 
I mean my family honestly is kind of a mess in similar ways that (inaudible at 00:02:51)'s family is, like on my mom's side like broken cars, no insurance, my aunt doesn't work and she's being basically supported by this guy that was her high school boyfriend that showed up when his wife got sick and her husband was sick and started buying her things all the time. Now he fills her bank account, she doesn't work, she looks like shit. She's five years younger than my mother and she looks like she's five years older, she just looked like shit she just spends all day on the Internet buying herself stuff but then says have money to buy the kids stuff, they all live in the same house and they all have this clan mentality like the kids usually the twelve and fourteen year old are running off to go, no they're like— And they're all way too involved with their parent's life, they know way too much. [00:03:35] Like the phone rang and my Uncle didn't pick it up in time. The fourteen year old was like "bill collector" and I was like why do you know about this child? You shouldn't be worried about this. So it's very difficult and that's why we don't see them and why my mother escaped Lexington and (sighs). So that was different. And, I mean, nobody drinks water or drinks fruit, like they drink so much soda. Jackie is already obese, a cousin, my aunt's overweight, Luke (sp?) and her, my cousin's husband is kind of overweight. And granted it's diet soda, but literally the kids don't drink water. They don't drink water. And it's bad, like it's bad, soda should be a treat. The babies are getting soda! Like they're getting Dr. Pepper or Sprite at lunches, like what the fuck are you trying to do? So beyond what I'm used to. And she has insurance for Jason (sp?) because he's a baby, but she doesn't have insurance for the others.
THERAPIST: Like health insurance? [00:04:31]
CLIENT: Like health insurance, like yearly checkups insurance, like dentist every six months insurance. Hello, what the hell? It's just a really far cry from what my mother has worked really hard to make sure that we have. So it's difficult to have to see that and not really be able to do anything about it unless we want to pay for the health insurance, which we can't. But I mean when I was a kid ordering soda was, like I would be excited to go out to eat because I could order a soda. Like at home it was juice, water or occasionally soda. Or even like water and milk and occasionally juice, deal with it you know that kind of thing. So to just see it so normal, like every (inaudible at 00:5:14). So that was that experience, but it was really nice to hang out with them. 
And I just spoke to my cousin Jackie (sp?), she, thirty(?)-six. She fucked up her whole life, I think she got pregnant when she was nineteen after she got engaged to Luke who was still married and had some pregnant wife that was leaving him and not going to let him see the kid. And I think she got pregnant to keep him and then she got pregnant again, she never lost the weight and is obese now. I think she got pregnant with Jason again to kind of maybe try to put a band-aid on the relationship? Because I was telling her what happened, I knew that her and Luke had separated several months ago, or maybe around the time that Jason was born and they got back together. [00:05:56] Now I don't know why I hadn't really talked to her about it, but I was telling her about Franklin (sp?) and apparently the reason why was that Luke cheated on her. She had a sneaking suspicion and she looked through his e-mails and did some digging, found a new account he had opened to exchange e-mails with someone and that he was having an affair with. So she kicked him out, well you know said you have to leave, I'm not going to do this. You know told him he needs to get therapy. He was begging on his hands and knees, like 'please, please', crying, you know 'don't leave me' very loud, like well this sounds familiar. And he moved out, got some therapy, and I guess, you know, she says that there's still not one hundred percent trust but she wants to take him back. I mean obviously it's far more complicated because they're married and have three kids, like it's a completely different animal. But it was good to talk to her about that and, you know, just another supporter of me making this decision and saying I think you're doing the right thing and he needs to show you that he can change and work on all these things. But it was a little bit like she said, like she still doesn't trust him one hundred percent and you know still has feelings of is he really going to the library, or where is he really going? And that made me feel a little bit like (sighs), like—
THERAPIST: Yeah. [00:07:16]
CLIENT: You know. And she's married so it's like obviously a little different for her in terms of deciding to live with not one hundred percent trusting him than it would be for me. So anyway I got back and I was missing Franklin (sp?) and I was having a lot of nightmares about the situation, just reliving it in dreams and then I actually had another confusing dream which involved me in like a full-fledged relationship with this guy that I've met a couple times through friends, at friends parties, like we all became Facebook friends so I think he must show up in my news feed or something. But anyway I had a dream that I was in a full-fledged relationship with this guy Sergio that I know completely peripherally and have met twice, and that confused me I guess. And I was talking to Franklin (sp?) a lot. My cousin pointed out that maybe the reason I was having dreams about the situation was because being away it's completely, like I'm completely out of control of the situation or whatever. Like there's no checking his phone or any of that stuff. I think it had to do with just being away from the situation in general and my mind was free to kind of just dwell on it maybe? I don't know. [00:08:31]
THERAPIST: Well what were the dreams?
CLIENT: Dreams like I found more messages, or that I, she showed up somewhere like to meet up with Franklin (sp?) I can't really remember them now, I didn't write them down or anything because I kind of just wanted to not think about them. But stuff like that, just kind of like reliving it or different variations on what actually happened or what could have happened or finding out more that did happen that I didn't know about before or, you know stuff like that.
THERAPIST: Mm-hmm.
CLIENT: When I came back I got up at three am, I had a bunch of stuff to take in. I had told him, he had said 'oh I want to wait up for you', I had told him I wanted macaroni so if he could put on water or whatever. I think I was a combination of just being tired and being nervous about coming back after being away for a week, but I got really really disappointed when he didn't pick up the phone and I was already turning down our street when he called and I wanted the macaroni already made so I could eat it because it was three-thirty and I was starving and I wanted him to already be downstairs. So I was really disappointed and then I started crying and then it was kind of not as nice reunion as it could have been or whatever. [00:09:41] And I don't know, I think also when I got in I just was feeling weird. I was just feeling like he was like 'oh I missed you so much, I'm so happy that you're back, and I've been thinking about you and da da da da da'. And even though I had too, I guess I just walked back in to the reality of what happened and what was going on and was just feeling upset and uncomfortable. But whatever, you know we went to sleep, went the next morning to drop off the car and had breakfast. And then later that afternoon, and I checked his phone and I checked his Facebook and he said he'd kept all the messages and there was nothing. I mean who knows if he deleted stuff from Facebook, you know or deleted— I still can't bring myself to believe that he wouldn't be capable of still lying to my face about stuff.
THERAPIST: Yeah. [00:10:33]
CLIENT: And then he gets a message later that day from some girl that I've seen him messaging before that he says is some girl that he friended because she does modeling or something and she lives in Europe and she had sent him a couple times postcards from when she was traveling, which I was kind of like 'random'. And he was like 'well whatever, she's just friendly', and I was like 'okay fine, whatever'. Like far be it to deny him a friend that sends him postcards. So she sent a Facebook message that says 'you've got mail' and then he gets a gmail that shows up. And I was like 'okay check your gmail, like right now', like 'okay I'm going to check it'. Because what does that mean? You just sent a Facebook message saying you've got mail and you sent a gmail. (inaudible at 00:11:16). It's pictures of her, one picture of her like this with like a low cut shirt and tons of cleavage and then the next one like this, like with the same outfit holding her breasts to make more cleavage. And I go 'what the fuck?' Like is this really happening right now? What is going on, what the fuck Franklin (sp?)? So I immediately go back on Facebook and message her you can't send pictures like that to Franklin (sp?) because in the moment I was all heated or whatever. [00:11:45] And he was like 'I don't know why she would send that picture', and I was like, I mean. He was like 'she's a model, she'll probably post them on Facebook later'. Then why didn't she send you them on Facebook, or why didn't she just show you it on Facebook? Why did she send them separately in a private e-mail to your gmail account? What's going on? 'Well I don't know, I think she had breast implants or something. We were talking about surgery and I thought she meant surgery on her knee, but then she said no she got breast implants and I guess she just wanted to show them to me'. And I was like 'that doesn't make any sense'. And he blocked her immediately, okay fine. But it just kind of, I was like really? And I was like so how many fucking times has this kind of thing happened where these people just feel completely welcome to send somebody with a girlfriend a picture of their breasts whether or not they? [00:12:33] He's like 'well it's not like she sent me a naked picture', I was like 'oh please Franklin (sp?). I don't care, like she wasn't just, like if she had just wanted to show you how nice her whatever is then she would have been satisfied with sending you the first one not having to send you one of like pushing them up with her hands seductively, like what the fuck? 'Well she's in Europe, what does it matter?' I was like 'it matters because you've been in these relationships with these people where they then feel it's okay. And I then don't know how much other stuff has been okay to send you or whatever.' And then I'm crying and he starts crying and then he's like 'I feel like I have a knife up against my neck at all times', and I was like 'well you do because you have all this fucking bullshit happening!' I was like shaking I was so angry. And then I'm like 'you could at least give me a fucking hug and not just sit there pouting as if I did something wrong to you'. And then he says 'I know you think I know how to delete individual messages from Facebook, but I really don't'. And I was like 'mmm, the fact that you're saying this to me right now kind of leads me to believe that you do and you want me to believe fully that you don't so that I don't think that you deleted', because, you know, instead of deleting he's saying oh you see everything I'm writing, I don't know how to delete the individual ones. You kind of just made me believe that you did, do know how to delete the individual ones.
THERAPIST: I see, yeah. [00:13:46]
CLIENT: Do you know what I mean? By bringing it up that way, I didn't say anything about that.
THERAPIST: Right. I see.
CLIENT: So are you just convincing me now that when I look at your Facebook messages you're not molding the conversation into what you think would be appropriate for me to see? And he's all about, ok so then I had somebody come and look at the apartment the other day. I've been getting a lot of e-mails, I put a posting up, talked to our landlord, all this stuff. But I've been getting a lot of e-mails from like twenty-two year olds, I don't want somebody in college or young, I'm twenty-eight I don't have any little sisters and I don't want any, like it's my home. So this girl's twenty-eight, she was nice, she had decay on her teeth which bothered me but then I was like she doesn't want to get her teeth fixed but can pay her rent what does it matter? She seemed nice, she's like meh 'oh I like to workout at the Y, I work a lot, da da da da da. We talked for forty minutes or so, she loved the apartment, she was happy to meet somebody normal finally, she's been worrying about it. She would need to have moved in like this week, like next week coming week, she was looking for August first. I thought she was going to be a good option and was going to go forward with it even though Franklin's (sp?) not moving until September first, and then kind of panicked, like I don't want a roommate, I don't want to settle for the first person I have. So I made the decision to keep the apartment on my own which means Franklin (sp?) giving me a little bit more money to cover credit card stuff, which is fine because the credit card debt is both of our so I feel okay about that and not thinking oh he's paying my rent. And he found a place kind of close to us for 475.00 a month and he's going to go with that.
THERAPIST: September first? [00:15:13]
CLIENT: Mm-hmm. But everything else is completely amicable in the house, we're still sleeping in the same bed, everything seems to be fine. He's always telling me he misses me and stuff, I started to feel really irritated with it because it's like 'what do you fucking miss? Like I just saw you this morning, normal couples spend the entire day without even texting each other, and that's fine. I just started feeling overwhelmed and kind of smothered I guess. And I'm kind of just having, I think I'm also a little bit tired and overworked and just can't wait for this course to be done next week and just like whatever. But I've just been feeling like irritated at him and a little bit less in love with him because of all this and just kind of nervous about how it's going to be, like how's it going to be when you move out? Are you going to be missing me all the time and wanting to come over all the time and wanting to talk to me all the time because that kind of defeats the purpose of the whole thing you know? And just kind of panicking and not really knowing how to handle it now. (Pause, crying) I just don't know how it's going to be and he's been planning like he's going to take care of all this stuff but I don't really know if he's going to, like all this school stuff. [00:16:25] 
And he still has this dream of being able to make money off of photography. I try to be supportive but I really don't think that it's going to happen, you know? And so it's kind of irritating when he gets (sighs), I just want to be like, he's just all over the place in what he wants to do. Like do you want to go back to school and get a degree? Do you want to get a personal training certificate? Do you want to learn more about IT and stay in that job right now? Or do you want to now be looking at teaching? So then I said to him ' well then instead of studying for the personal trainer thing', which he's not been doing. I don't know who he's trying to convince of this whole situation because he's not been doing that. I was like 'well instead', out of frustration and him like 'oh photography, and I want to be making money and going to competitions and getting sent places", that's not going to happen when you're twenty-eight and a half. I was like 'well then why don't you work on, instead of getting a personal training', oh and also he's kind of saying things that are a little bit matyrish like woe is me kind of thing in the sense that like. So I said to him 'instead of doing personal training certificate you look at doing (sighs) group class training so that you can teach?' And he was like 'well that's a good idea, and especially since I won't have my own home gym now to do personal training in, that will be a better option'.
THERAPIST: Sort of passive aggressive? [00:17:56]
CLIENT: Super passive aggressive! And when I was talking about a roommate, 'well since I can't store any of my stuff anywhere I'll have to figure it out'. You know just really passive aggressive, kind of like 'since I won't have this, since I won't be able to do that, since this', you know?
THERAPIST: Yeah.
CLIENT: And either you tell me that you're okay with this and that you support this because you want to do whatever you can to get me back or you don't. And it's kind of like using me, well what the fuck am I supposed to say now? Like 'well you can still use the room with this equipment in it' like for real you're being so dramatic and passive aggressive about this, when we talked about what we're trying to do. Yeah we are trying to date each other and we are trying to work this out or whatever, just let me, just stop making me feel bad about it! I'm just starting to feel really (sighs) frustrated and just confused about the whole thing because— I'm almost starting to feel like, I don't even know if ever we can get the situation back. And just starting to feel annoyed at him in general, feeling like he never will follow through on these things that he says he's going to do. And even if he does, if I still feel like I can't trust him then it doesn't matter. I don't want to fucking check your Facebook for the rest of my life! (Sighs in frustration) Do you know how irritating that is? [00:19:18] 
I don't know. And again I want to believe him when he's promising all this stuff that he's not doing this and not doing that, but I just don't know how to, you know. I don't know how I'm supposed to believe anything, (pause) at all and (sighs) I don't know how to deal with the idea of him saying (inaudible at 00:19:46), I don't know, I don't want to date anybody, I want to think that I'm single, that I just want to work on everything I want to work on. Oh I know what he said that kind of pissed me off or made me worried the other day, he was talking about therapy and I was talking about how he needs to basically, I haven't put it this way to him yet but, work on why he has the compulsion to talk to other women, essentially. But he's saying 'well I'm not going to just be, the thing I'm going to be working on in therapy is the roots of why I have issues and all this stuff, it's not just going to be about why I did this and how to not do it again'. In my head I was kind of like 'well it should be'.
THERAPIST: Mm-hmm. [00:20:27]
CLIENT: Like you're working so hard to get me back, it's great that you're talking about your family, yeah that's stuff you do need to talk to a therapist about and work out what the fuck happened and why it affects you so greatly today and how you can make changes. But if you're not framing it around, if you're not framing it around the reason why you had brought to therapy, which is because you fucked up with your girlfriend and you really don't want to lose her, then it's kind of not what is going to be the best for us. And I feel like the honeymoon period of him just wanting to do anything for me and I do no wrong kind of thing is kind of trickling off. Like he's still always saying I miss you and I love you, but I almost feel that that's self-serving to boost his confidence about me feeling like well I miss you too. Well and also because he's feeling devoid of not talking to all these other girls maybe? And not getting that satisfaction from them, so I almost feel like that's self-serving and not necessarily about me. And he's kind of being a little bit more like hmm about stuff that I say or do or whatever. Like I kind of interrupted him as he was venting about work this morning because he was literally just standing there talking to me about some bullshit that happened at work. And I was like 'did you feed the cat? Did you take out the trash? We're in a rush'. [00:21:47] I didn't say it that way, but I kind of did cut him off and then he got all sad about being cut off and like 'well I just feel like', and I was like 'I'm sorry, I really didn't mean to cut you off I just wanted to make sure that we got everything done. You can talk about that as much as you want'. But he gets into these rants, but then I'll be kind of blamed for it because I'm the one that's still doing my make-up or whatever. Well I may still be doing our make-up but you're not doing other stuff that you should be doing, so whatever.
THERAPIST: Mm-hmm
CLIENT: But it feels like little things like that, so there's this competition this weekend that a bunch of people are staying at the house. Last night two of them already arrived, tonight like three or four more are arriving. He's all sad that I'm not going to be here this weekend because I'm going to New York for the baby shower for Amanda. I'll be there tonight at the competition, he's competing but he's like 'well I don't even see the fun of competing, we're not going to win because—' And I'm like well no wonder you're not getting anywhere, these people that get places are competing even if they lose, like all the time at these little stupid things. 'Well I don't want to do that because it's a waste of my time'. So it's hard for me to be sympathetic and supportive when he contradicts himself. (Pause, sighs) [00:22:54]
I'm just, and about this weekend I told him that I was uncomfortable with people being in the house without me there and he got all pissy about it and so I kind of backed off. And he swears that he told me people were arriving last night, I don't remember that. He swears that he told me two of them weren't leaving until Tuesday, I swore he said Monday. So there's just a lot of that stuff going on, like he said she said kind of thing. And I got annoyed at him last night because, again, in front of people he tends to get really irritating and loud and, I don't know.
THERAPIST: Seems like you (pause) are in some ways trusting him less or have less faith in a lot of things that he's saying, or saying he said. [00:23:52]
CLIENT: I do.
THERAPIST: Does it work in the relationship—
CLIENT: Right.
THERAPIST: I mean to some extent. I guess also (inaudible at 00:24:01] the other day in terms of not being in touch with other women online.
CLIENT: Right and I kind of said that to him, I was like 'why are you even talking to her?' 'Well because it was never like that.' Umm she told you about breast implants, case closed. Don't talk to that person anymore, that's not business that you go spreading around to strangers around the world that you talk to on Facebook. A lot of people don't even tell people if they get surgery. You know? But yeah I am trusting him less and I'm feeling less in love with him and feeling more irritated at him and, like I wanted to punch him in the face last night when he was saying like, because we went up North, and he was saying 'well it can get to below twenty Celsius'. And I was like what would that be here, and was trying to calculate it, and he was like 'that would be like negative forty'. And I was like 'no no, I'm pretty sure Fahrenheit is like thirty or something above Celsius. And he was like 'no, what are you talking about?' [00:25:06] And I was like 'I'm pretty sure that's a fact', and he was like 'no it's below', and was literally going to move forward with that argument until he was like 'oh yeah yeah yeah, I'm stupid you're right'. 
And then we're talking about a walk from the hotel that these people are, these other two people are staying at to the subway, and they're like 'it says it's a twenty minute walk on this map, is that true?' And I was like 'yeah probably about twenty minutes', he's like ' no, it's like twenty minutes slow walking. It's like ten minutes'. And I was like 'I think it's like fifteen to twenty minutes', and then he was like 'this map says seventeen minutes, so clearly that's not right either'. And just like everything he was just, he had to be the talking authority figure. And I was like shut the fuck up. You don't know everything, there's a lot of stuff you don't know and there's a lot more stuff that I know. Okay, there's more stuff you know about some stuff, fine. But it was just really annoying and I felt like I couldn't even stand it. I literally was like I cannot stand this right now and I don't know how to make this man change his habits and he probably can't and maybe this is another reason that we can't be together. And so I'm just kind of feeling panicky and like butterflies in my stomach about all this stuff that's going on and all the kind of confidence that I was feeling and like maybe we can make this work and da da da is kind of— [00:26:15]
THERAPIST: Yeah, it seemed like that was a big thing that was helping you get through
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST:  How things were, was imagining that this is temporary, he'd go out and get his act together, you'd ultimately be together.
CLIENT: Right.
THERAPIST: He kind of learned his lesson.
CLIENT: Right.
THERAPIST: And that's not what's happening.
CLIENT: Yeah. I mean right. I mean I still feel confident in my decision to try to make it work and move forward with this plan of him moving out and still trying to see each other. I still feel good about that, feel like that's the right choice for me right now. But I guess I'm also just feeling like even irritated at his persistently optimistic outlook on like 'about the separating finances, I don't want to do it because it makes it feel like it's permanent when I know it's not', and that kind of outlook is even irritating to me because it's like you have to be realistic about things. This is a big issue right now, you know it's a big issue.
THERAPIST: Mm-hmm. [00:27:24]
CLIENT: You know he was so concerned with before where we have to change our relationship status to 'it's complicated' because the world thinks we're perfect and we're not. He was so, like (smacks table) about that when it was me, you know, causing the issue. And now that it's him it's completely opposite, like 'I'm just going to tell people we're just going through a rough patch' and 'I'm not telling people I'm single' and, you know? And it's kind of like well you were so realistic about things, but now that it's your fault and you're scared you don't want to think about the actuality of the situation. And that's pissing me off.
THERAPIST: Yep.
CLIENT: And then I get blamed for being like (inaudible at 00:28:05) and making him feel sad if I'm like 'well you never know', you know. And it's like really? Do you not know what's going on right now, are you not part of this relationship in this situation? So I'm just feeling frustrated. I'm kind of venting right now I think because, you know, to a lot of people I do have, I do feel like I want to, you know, not as much vent about this stuff because I just think it's like opposite to how I've felt in every other aspect of my life which is like I want everyone's opinion and input to help me. [00:28:37] Now I kind of need people to not like 'well you're right about this because blah blah blah blah blah', you know?
THERAPIST: Yeah.
CLIENT: Just because I'm already doing that and I need to just not have other people, you know I need people to say 'well you're right for making that decision and I hope everything works out, you know, either way'. And then this morning I gchatted my ex-boyfriend Thomas. Thomas and I dated on and off (laughs) like two or three years and I kind of screwed up a couple times, like made out with a couple boys and thought I didn't want Thomas, like we had sex issues and he was a great guy but I think that he wasn't what I needed at the time. We loved each other and whatever, I tried to get him back when I realized he had a girlfriend and blah blah blah, but we've stayed in touch and stayed friends and whatever. [00:29:29] I don't know what prompted me to talk to him, but he said 'what's up? What's going on in your life?', and I kind of just started to spill. And then he was like 'honestly, I'm here to listen any time you need and whatever advice I can give'. And he's like perpetually sweet and I have a lot of love for him, he's a great guy. He has a girlfriend now, she has two kids. He's got a daddy role and they've been together for almost four years now, I think or almost three years and I'm very happy for him, God bless him or whatever. I mean sometimes I think about it, oh maybe I should have stayed with him he's a great guy he's successful, he's smart, went to college, whatever. But I talked to him about it and, you know, he didn't really say anything new other than what everybody else has said. But then he did say, you know, 'honestly I am sorry that it didn't work out between us but I think we were both at a strange point in our lives and dealing with some changes", which is true I was dealing with job stuff and he was dealing with other stuff, family stuff and some other things. "You know and it just wasn't the right timing, and I think that's fine and I'm glad to have you in my life". [00:30:38] And, you know, he didn't so much give me advice about the situation, you know, besides just confirming what everybody else is confirming which is I think you're making the right decision in your actions and that really sucked that he did that, it sounds like he doesn't really know what he wants and maybe he's overwhelmed by everything. Talking to him did actually make me feel a little bit better, it just kind of was calming a little bit and nice to talk to somebody who does know me well and doesn't, didn't every really do anything to screw me over and who was screwed over by me but still cares about me and respects me and whatever. So that was nice to talk to him and is why actually it felt really nice. He's a nice guy and it was good.
THERAPIST: Yeah.
CLIENT: And it kind of made me remember that, I don't know it's just, again you're right that's exactly what I'm feeling is that I'm not trusting all this stuff about Franklin (sp?) right now like as much as I was before, it's just kind of fading. I think maybe he might, it's making me feel like lost feeling a little bit himself in terms of all this stuff and get back to being able to be annoyed at me for the way that I am and the things that I say.
THERAPIST: I think you sound really scared.
CLIENT: I am. [00:31:55]
THERAPIST: That this is it.
CLIENT: Mm-hmm. Right, and that's another reason why I feel irritated at him just getting so sad if I'm not ever like maybe it won't work out. Because it's like Franklin (sp?) you have a hard road to safe if it doesn't. And me, like it's going to be really shitty, I'm going to end up getting blamed by him for being the one that didn't make this relationship work. And I'm fully confident of that fact. Because if he gets all his stuff together or is working so hard or is doing everything he can to show me that I can trust him and he only loves me he only loves me and then I feel—
THERAPIST: He already isn't.
CLIENT: He already isn't! He already isn't and when I kind of said that he was like 'babe can you just let me, you told me you wanted to see me do this on my own so you really just need to let me do it'. And I'm like 'well already three things that you said you were doing this weekend are done so'. And everything, like don't tell me stuff if you're not going to keep promises to yourself. Like they gave him some big, fat book to train on himself for work and he was like 'I'm going to read one hundred and fifty pages by the end of the week of this book so that I can be ready for whatever I want to apply like some test or something'. He didn't even get through seventy-five! (Sighs) And then if I act disappointed then he feels like I'm the one that's making him feel disappointed in himself. [00:33:22] 
THERAPIST: Mm-hmm.
CLIENT: Well don't set yourself up for that situation Franklin (sp?)! (Sighs) Again I am, I'm scared about the whole situation right now, I'm scared about everything, I'm nervous about everything, I'm nervous about the fact that he's moving out but that that he's (inaudible at 00:33:35), following me by, just feeling a little crazy. I am excited to not be here this weekend because I do feel like it would be having to put on a little bit more of an act than I have the energy to do and give more to him and his friends and his crew that I feel like I owe anybody right now. He finally lost my G-pass, my monthly G-pass that I let him borrow on Wednesday when I drove to work because I had to babysit after work. And I was like really? It ended up in a box that he didn't check. I had ordered a new one already, I would have been really pissed if they charged me for the new one. And he said I'll pay you for it, but it just was like okay another fucking thing that you've done to cause more work for me. Like get your fucking shit together. Stop losing shit, stop running into cars, stop making illegal turns, stop! Like stop talking to anybody that's a female, I don't give a fuck. (Exhales) I'm just, yeah I'm just. [00:34:35]
THERAPIST: It sounds like you're, I think it was mainly related to the dreams that you were having, not the one about Sergio that lines up, but the other ones like (pause, pages turning) you seem a lot less willing to overlook some of this stuff or sort of brush it aside or let him talk you into brushing it aside than before.
CLIENT: Mm-hmm. (Pause) Yeah, I think there's a lot more feelings of I may love you, but I'm not putting up with your shit. Love doesn't conquer all in all situations, to be perfectly honest. Nice quote, but it really doesn't.
THERAPIST: Mm-hmm.
CLIENT: Like in the grand scheme, maybe fine yeah okay peace and love the world, you know. But in this situation it doesn't. I could love you till my dying day, but if I feel like you're not the type of person that I want to be with for the rest of my life then I'm not going to be. And I think I haven't really had those feelings be so strong before.
THERAPIST: Yeah. [00:35:54]
CLIENT: You know what I think the dream about having a relationship with this other guy maybe had to do with just feeling a little but like I owe it to myself to date a little bit more right now, or wanting to date more and kind of experiencing that through my unconscious.
THERAPIST: What do you remember, we still have some time, what do you remember from the dream?
CLIENT: Well, we were at a community pool, and things were going on under the water, like there was like houses and stuff underwater, which is I think just a weird thing. But, well Franklin (sp?) showed up and I remember have to explain to him that I was in this relationship with this guy or something like, I wish I could remember better I need to start writing things down. I don't know, his brother and sister were there, who I also know through the other people that I've met at parties, we're all friends. And his sister was being all sistery with me, like we were in a relationship, it was like we were doing relationship stuff, like we were doing some family stuff like going to a barbeque or something like that. And I think I just remember Franklin (sp?) kind of showing up in the dream and then kind of just feeling like that wasn't who I was with anymore and feeling like I was happy to be with educated people who had their shit together and had jobs, like the sister has a doctorate, the brother is a teacher. [00:37:20] And of course I know all these things through Facebook so they then showed up in my dream, because I see the wall postings of whatever, even though I'm not friends with them which is a creepy thing about Facebook friends. And I think I remember just feeling like happy about being in this relationship with this guy and like this is who I want to marry and so I think that it does relate back to feeling nervous about my current relationship ending and not working out and also having feelings of wanting to explore other options of maybe somebody that would be more compatible.
THERAPIST: Do you have any associations to the houses underwater?
CLIENT: (Laughs) No. Well I've been spending a lot of time at the pool on vacation, I think that's maybe where the pool showed up? I don't know what the deal was about having to like dive in to do stuff, like that's where the activity was taking place. I mean maybe it has something to do with like (pause), I don't know wanting a different situation from the one I'm in, or like, I don't really remember exactly what was going on underwater but stuff was underwater, like buildings or something. And we were walking around the pool and had to like go in to do whatever we were there to do. It was strange. [00:38:47] But I remember waking up like whoa, that was new. I've not had relationship other, I don't even have sex dreams really, relationship dreams or marriage dreams, I don't have that kind of dream.
THERAPIST: My first thought about (pause) part of it is that it was like a (pause) a bit of a 'meh fuck you Franklin (sp?)' you know where, fine he's going to have some woman's boobs in his face on his Facebook page or whatever it is, gmail.
CLIENT: Gmail, right.
THERAPIST: You know, you're going to have your boyfriend's sister's PhD, you know what I mean?
CLIENT: Right. I think so.
THERAPIST: So and then fuck you, go ahead and keep the boobs, fine look at that
CLIENT: Right.
THERAPIST: you want in your life, what I want is to be surrounded by people who are like this. [00:39:55]
CLIENT: Mm-hmm.
THERAPIST: And who (pause) have a lot more going on in a certain way.
CLIENT: Yeah, exactly. I think that has a lot to do with it, because you know of course I've been thinking about that a lot.
THERAPIST: Sure.
CLIENT: You know whereas before it was kind of like a happenthought and like, well I love him and really this is who I want to be with so that doesn't matter. Now that's a lot more in my forefront, like noticing people more and noticing guys that are attractive that look like, or that I know have their shit together, whatever.
THERAPIST: Right.
CLIENT: You know? But yeah, for sure I think about that a lot more than I have been and that's, you know, confusing as well.
THERAPIST: Yeah. (Client sighs) I like to think it's partly angry and it's partly a salve for how hurt you are
CLIENT: Mm-hmm. Right.
THERAPIST: by how he's treated you.
CLIENT: Mm-hmm. (Pause) Yeah, I mean I think it's, I also have been holding in a lot of stuff because I haven't seen you in a week or whatever and so this was really helpful to kind of be able to just let my emotions, you know, go because I've just been having to hold it in a lot.
THERAPIST: Sure. [00:41:11]
CLIENT: You know for Franklin's (sp?) sake so he doesn't fucking crumble on the floor. He's a dramatic. And so, you know, I think it's going to be a difficult month.
THERAPIST: Yeah.
CLIENT: But I'm glad to be leaving on Saturday morning, tomorrow morning, to go and spend time and I went shopping for the baby yesterday and that was really therapeutic.
THERAPIST: Good.
CLIENT: So, you know, we'll see how things go for the next week or so. We are okay for next Friday at 2:30?
THERAPIST: Yeah that works for me. I'll have a schedule then. (Pause) I mean certainly let me know over the next month or whatever if it would be helpful to meet any more often if it's a frustrating, tough time.
CLIENT: Yeah, yeah, yeah I will. Yeah I think it's okay for now.
THERAPIST: Sure, whatever you think. [00:42:11]
CLIENT: (Pause) I'm just trying to kind of stay true to myself but just kind of deal with this in the most, in an easy way. I just want, I can't, I don't want to make it more difficult for myself, like I just have to ignore his little passive aggressive remarks about the move and about the finances and "well maybe I just won't have a bed", you know. And be like, this is your bed sleep in it (chuckles). Because that's what I'm feeling so I don't want to, I just don't want to ruffle feathers further and make things difficult for myself, that's kind of what ends up happening. Things just become more difficult for me rather than him.
THERAPIST: Yeah.
CLIENT: (Pause) Yeah, so that's my story.
THERAPIST: Yeah.
CLIENT: So yeah.
THERAPIST: It's frustrating. [00:43:13]
CLIENT: Yeah. Difficult, very difficult. You know I was thinking about how you had said a couple weeks ago how, you know, 'it doesn't seem like you're feeling that upset, it just feels like', you know? And, you know, I wasn't really feeling as upset and I think that it's going to just hit me in different ways during different times and right now I'm just kind of feeling smothered and like I can't wait to have the apartment to myself and my money to myself and I'm not going to have that much money because I'm taking the apartment by myself for now, but just to kind of be free of stuff.
THERAPIST: Yeah. Well we'll stop for now. But we'll talk more next week.
CLIENT: Sounds good. 
THERAPIST: Alright.
CLIENT: Alright thank you. Have a good weekend.
THERAPIST: Thank you.
END TRANSCRIPT
