<font size="4"><b>Chapter I: The Story Continues</b></font>

The adventure of 1942 which took me into asylum in
July as a certified patient found me still there at the end of
the year. I have destroyed the diaries of the time which
served to take the over-active thoughts of a "lunatic" who
could not understand her place. Only a scrap record
remains. I now realise that the mind was perhaps constantly
flooded as a result of my own anxious and troubled
thoughts meeting the anxious and troubled thoughts of
other minds.


Earlier in 1942 I had found unexpectedly a fellow-propagandist
in H. G. Wells. My finding of <i>Christina
Alberta's Father</i> on the library shelves seemed to me to be
a "guided" choice. My friends were pressing me to give
up interest in mental problems. I decided to make an effort
to do so and set myself to enjoy a relaxed period of leisure.
My busy life at school and at home had left me with a very
limited knowledge of English literature and I decided to
take the opportunity afforded me at this time to make good
some of this deficiency. I did not know the writing of
H. G. Wells so I consciously chose the shelf where I would
find his novels, but something more than conscious choice
seemed to direct which one I was to take. I was allowing
my mind new interest. Was it God or Devil, chance or
design that made my choice of literature bring me right
back to the problem from which I was retreating? In subsequent
years I referred frequently to this book. In it I
found in print many of the things I had been saying and I
lent my marked copy to some of those interested enough to

[p. <i>62</i>]

Mr Preemby, of H. G. Wells' story, was an imaginative
little man in an uninteresting place in life. His mind was
attached to some mightier force in history and, in his efforts
to find a way to put the world in better order, he found
himself annexing the personality of another and becoming a
new persona person of mightSargon, King of Kings.
The book interested me because it described so well how an
abnormal citizen can be suddenly taken from the outside
world and shut within the walls of a prison house.


Mr Preemby was easily certified of unsound mind.
His actual status did not at all conform to his imaginations.
Looking here at my own case I see no such aberration from
my sane knowledge that I was Miss I. M. Morrisona
member of my own family groupa teacher by profession.
I was also, by profession, a Christian. My abnormality was
that I had accepted the challenge of my religionChrist
working in me. I had accepted the hope of my Church
that Christ had chosen us to be His workers through whom
His power was made manifest. The war had merely called
me to the acceptance of this responsibility. If there was
unsoundness of mind to be attached to my behaviour, some
at least of it was to be attached to the community of the
church of which I was only a part.


For Mr Preemby the asylum of the temporarily
"unsound in mind" would seem to be the proper place.
For myself the asylum of the "over-urgent" would seem
to be the proper place. For both of us the need is the
greater understanding by those who have authority in the
asylum of the ways to bring us to acceptance of our own
and of society's limitations. For society there is the need
to find its own potentialities.

[p. <i>63</i>]

For Mr Preemby there came delivery to friends and
ultimately release by death. For myself in 1942 there
remained the problem of life and work. I felt definitely in
my wrong place as mental patient certified unsound in mind.
My main objective was to earn discharge.

