TRANSCRIPT OF AUDIO FILE:
______________________________________________________________________________
BEGIN TRANSCRIPT:


COUNSELOR: Client number 2326 - 104. Special Sessions 2a - alpha. 

 Session number 11....


COUNSELOR: Where are you sitting?


PATIENT: Here.


COUNSELOR: So what's happening?


PATIENT: I don't feel very good. Just very panicky, but making it through tonight.


COUNSELOR: What's happening and did something special happen tonight or...?


PATIENT: Well nothing special in the sense that... It's just like last night was so bad. I don't know I'm just involved in this thing with Jenna (ph) in a bad way. It's just like...I feel like I want to get out and I want to stay in and I don't know what to do. I just... [1:05]


COUNSELOR: Well what's the panic concerning (ph) like you think part of it's the, "want to get out" or "want to get away from this sad thing" or...


PATIENT: Yeah.


COUNSELOR: ... [or maybe you don't.] (ph)


PATIENT: And yet I'm afraid to. I'm afraid to be just on my own. 

Back in college (inaudible) the fact that a lot of times when we're together it's really really good, so. But I don't know...I just feel like I'm getting hurt by everybody.


COUNSELOR: How are you getting hurt?


PATIENT: I'm hurting. I'm in pain. 


COUNSELOR: I mean right now.


PATIENT: Right now? Not as much as I did last night. It's just...well I'll tell you what happened. Well she went to this rehearsal to her play and I was [over where I was] (ph) ...and so I was just waiting around for her to come back. 


And she generally drives back with this guy who lives across the street who she's always telling me she has fantasies about and this and that. 


COUNSELOR: Uh huh. Which makes you feel it's awkward? (ph)


PATIENT: Well yes and no. But like the fact that she spends a lot of time with him makes me feel like I am getting used. Anyway so then they came back and I figured oh well - these other guys talk very loud. 


So they came in screaming (inaudible). Then they just all got in the car and piled off and left me. And it sucks, so...


COUNSELOR: Then you really felt hurt. [3:04]


PATIENT: Yes. Totally wet (ph) and hopeless. Sort of all my nerves all my (inaudible) I couldn't even (inaudible).


COUNSELOR: What's it mean, her getting back in the car and going off with him?


PATIENT: I know what it meant to me.


COUNSELOR: Yeah, that's what I want to know. What it meant to...


PATIENT: It just meant to me that she'd rather be with him then with me - that's what it means. And I'm just not prepared to accept that.


COUNSELOR: It just hurts too much.


PATIENT: Yeah just too much and I can't do anything about it. 


COUNSELOR: Yeah like you feel like you're helpless to change it...and do anything about it.


PATIENT: I tried but like it just happens all the time and I just can't go there. I mean maybe if I was - I mean I should be stronger then I'd be able to deal with it. 


But I just can't. Like she came back and I told her - I said, "Look, I really think I ought to leave. This, is just so - just so I don't know." (inaudible)


COUNSELOR: But then you put that together then with the feeling - like she really would prefer to go out with him then with you.


PATIENT: Yeah. I don't put it together very well. 


COUNSELOR: How does it make you feel?


PATIENT: No. I just don't want to do anything. It doesn't feel right. (inaudible) 


And like it gets confused by the simple feelings of jealousy. I mean obviously I can't demand that anybody spend all of their time with me (inaudible). But this just seems too much. [5:11]


COUNSELOR: Like you feel like you don't have a right to say, "You got to be with me...all the time." But God damn it - coming home and then going on off rather than coming in...it just feels like too much. It just seems so clear to you like she doesn't like you as well as she likes him...and that hurts. [5:33]


PATIENT: Yeah. She says, "Well what's the difference, it's just another hour (inaudible.) [I said, "It's cold."] (ph)


COUNSELOR: I didn't understand the cold [part of that] (ph)


PATIENT: Well it's just that (inaudible)


COUNSELOR: But what - is that, does it mean that like another hour isn't going to make a difference?


PATIENT: Yeah. 


COUNSELOR: To her but it does to you.


PATIENT: Right. Yeah. I don't know I just - I just feel it's a totally (inaudible) situation; because the same thing can just happen every night.


COUNSELOR: [Let's do it] (ph) again and again...just to hurt. Waiting for her to come home; sort of hoping it will be soon and then you hear her and then she comes -


PATIENT: Well I mean she doesn't do that every night. But like even - you know she'll show up at 2:00 and like then I'll just sit and say, "Well maybe the play lasted... (inaudible) ...doing something else.


COUNSELOR: It sounds like you'd like to...


PATIENT: I feeling like I can't put up with it but I'm feeling like I'm just afraid to just leave. 


COUNSELOR: What would that be like just to leave? [7:07]


PATIENT: I'll never know till I try it. 


COUNSELOR: Yeah. But I mean - like you've got some ideas of what it might be like. You need to, right...


PATIENT: Yeah. It would just feel really, really lonely and really - and like I don't have that much place to leave to either which doesn't help too much. But like I really don't feel like being alone but...I sort of prayed about it. 


COUNSELOR: Prayed to just have your own little spot and be alone in it? You're feeling so lonely.


PATIENT: Yeah. I talked this over (inaudible)


COUNSELOR: And that feeling would just get worse and worse. Yeah. Makes (ph) you pay attention to how miserable you are (inaudible). It seems like those are the options?


PATIENT: Well when she says oh, "Why don't you just, just don't watch [TV] so much." 


COUNSELOR: Ha, ha, ha. Huh?


PATIENT: Which is to say she doesn't listen to me that much. So, we both want different things.


COUNSELOR: It sounds like it doesn't it. Like, you'd like to be with her a lot. You like the times when you feel close. It's that kind of thing you'd be missing if you really...


PATIENT: I just don't know if I can do anything on a half hearted, weekend type basis. So that she says, "Well we'll sleep together (inaudible) ...we'll see and stuff like that." But like I don't know if I can do that. Do it - I just can't operate that way. [9:08]


COUNSELOR: Seems too foreign...it feels like it'd hurt all the time between you, or...?


PATIENT: Well it just feels like either I think enough of her. I mean if it didn't matter - like if that's the way I felt - then I'd be able to do it. But I just don't think I can do it. I haven't really tried.


COUNSELOR: [That's true.] (ph) (inaudible)


PATIENT: It just goes like something that's just in my past that's all. Or maybe in my future it just isn't with me right now.


COUNSELOR: Like thinking (ph) maybe you might someday feel that way but you sure don't feel like it now.


PATIENT: I just don't know how to do it on that kind of a basis. Which is I think sort of what she wants...I don't know. I asked her what she wants and she says, "I don't know"...like she's not unhappy.


COUNSELOR: And you are...hurting and all that.


PATIENT: She's unhappy that I'm miserable and that she doesn't like dealing...that I am always present and looking out for what she's doing. She doesn't like feeling guilty. (inaudible)


And the only thing that really made sense to me is to just quit; at least temporarily. Like I really can't bring myself to do any (inaudible) on a regular basis...either you be like this or I'm leaving. 


COUNSELOR: Sort of an ultimatum.


PATIENT: Yeah. [Kind of.] (ph)


COUNSELOR: And you're saying that feels good to you, or...? [11:23]


PATIENT: Well it just doesn't feel right. I doesn't really - It feels bad having to go through it but like I don't know. It's just the only thing that makes sense. I was just not sure...not sure.


COUNSELOR: Yeah I don't have a feel for what it would feel like to you or mean to you for you to her, "Look, I simply can't go on - right now anyways - the way I'm feeling and your feeling being so, different...either you..." you know...


PATIENT: Saying it I don't think would feel bad but then what would happen after that. 


COUNSELOR: What would happen?


PATIENT: Well depending on how she reacted - if she sort of cried and grabbed on to me then I'd just really feel really sorry and it really feels good being held. (inaudible)


COUNSELOR: Uh huh, sort of masculine. (ph)


PATIENT: Yeah so like. I mean then it's perfectly good to be mad (ph) so it feels great. Like this doesn't answer the problem but it might help to change it a little bit.


COUNSELOR: Uh huh. So supposing you hold her then -


PATIENT: So it almost has to be an ultimatum. [I don't know like] (ph)


COUNSELOR: You're saying - like alright so supposing she says, "Don't go" and she holds you and she cries and feels good. She seems all warm and, "Please stay" and then the next night you're thinking it would be the same. Huh?


PATIENT: Yeah and if it wouldn't be the same then it would only be because she was feeling guilty. She'd let me know that.


COUNSELOR: "I have to get back home because he'll be upset and he'll leave." [13:05]


PATIENT: Right. 


COUNSELOR: [Not necessarily] (ph) to want to get home to see you. Which is I guess what you are saying you want. 


PATIENT: Yeah.


COUNSELOR: So I guess you're wanting from her, her feeling like she really wants to be with you.


PATIENT: Yeah.


COUNSELOR: And that would be the ultimatum out of it - getting home more. 


PATIENT: Well then it's nice. (ph) I guess that makes more sense. I guess that's what I really want. That is what I really want. I think - I think...I'm not positive. I don't know. I'm just never positive with what happens. You know I feel that...


COUNSELOR: Yeah, yeah well you can't be I guess - you're trying to be sure about how it would feel later on and you really can't be. But you can always...


PATIENT: Like I don't really want her to chasing after the me. I mean I don't want her running over to me at work during the middle of the afternoon and I don't want her... 


Like she like me to chase after her the way I do. Because I feel insecure and I try to make sure that I'll be around when she'll be around. So that's what happens. But for awhile there it was sort of reverse roles. She was sort of chasing after me a little bit...and like I don't really dig that either.


COUNSELOR: That's wrong (ph) of you?


PATIENT: I guess I feel the same way about it as she feels about me chasing after her. It just feels a bit claustrophobic and a bit like - it just isn't cool. It's just not flowing right. It's just too forced. I'd like it to be so much better.


COUNSELOR: You feel too pushed and not enough room.


PATIENT: But that doesn't happen too much. But like I don't want to set something up where that does happen. Because that's not going to be good either. And I've sort of been through relationships like that where people just really depended on me. I don't get involved in over dependent things - where you're (inaudible).


COUNSELOR: Somebody's grabbing me. [15:27]


PATIENT: Someone's always grabbing me...it just [not right]. (ph)


COUNSELOR: You like it where you could both be kind of free. 


PATIENT: Yeah. 


COUNSELOR: Like somehow share the kind of feeling that you'd have. So you didn't get the feeling like you were coming too close or too pushy or something like that.


PATIENT: Well I don't like to be that way.


COUNSELOR: Yeah.


PATIENT: But like its really hard for me to differentiate it sometimes between that and what's willing to please me. It's that - I mean what. See I wish I could just say, "I know what I want; I'm not getting what I want...so I'm going to have to find something else. That's that." 


COUNSELOR: Yeah. If it were simple. But you don't feel it's simple. It's complicated huh?


PATIENT: I guess so because that's not what I am doing. So there's some complications somewhere. 


COUNSELOR: One part of the complication I guess you were saying is...you don't want to be alone...and what you've got sure beats that. 


PATIENT: Yeah. 


COUNSELOR: What's that? (inaudible)


PATIENT: It's a mess. Like it's not bad right now from 11:00 in the morning till five till seven in the afternoon is generally an easy time...wide awake, just walk around. It's hard to get too depressed in the day. But like early in the morning and at night it just...


COUNSELOR: Does it make you feel bad?


PATIENT: And like I just feel - I just feel ultimatum about tonight. I just won't be able to put up with it. You're either going to get out - and seriously get out or else be around with for some reason. I feel somewhat bad about thinking that because it doesn't really feel good to think that. [17:51]


COUNSELOR: Why?


PATIENT: I don't know why...it just doesn't. 


COUNSELOR: What's it feel like when you think about it?


PATIENT: It um...it doesn't feel good. I can feel my heart sort of thumping, I feel anxious about it. I feel like maybe it isn't really what I want to say. Because I don't feel relaxed and...


COUNSELOR: And you're feeling like you're really on the edge or on the line? (ph)


PATIENT: And I'm also - like I feel there's no really sensible response to that. There...I'm anxious because nothing she could say would make me feel happy as a response to that. 


If she said ok, "Leave" - that wouldn't really make me feel good; if she said, "Ok I'll be home tonight right after the play" - that wouldn't make me feel good. But yet that's how I feel. But maybe it isn't...she goes I don't really feel the same. 


COUNSELOR: Yeah like your feeling very desperately wanting something from her. And yet when you hear yourself kind of issue the ultimatum you feel really crummy because there's no way she can respond.


PATIENT: Yeah. 


COUNSELOR: I mean you don't want her to come home right after the play...unless what?


PATIENT: Unless she wants to. I mean I do what her to of course.


COUNSELOR: You want her to but you don't want her to do unless she wants to?


PATIENT: And like right, and I certainly don't want her - I don't want her to feel like she has to do that every night. Like it just seems once when she feels like she doesn't have to do it, she'll never do it.


COUNSELOR: She won't want too? Unless you force her too?


PATIENT: Yeah. Yeah.


COUNSELOR: That must really hurt.


PATIENT: Yeah. Like there's no way I can get through to her when we talk. She just says, "Well Christ just spend so much time together; we sleep together every night and [such and such and such] (ph)."


COUNSELOR: She's looking at it like it's too much?


PATIENT: Yeah.


COUNSELOR: And you're feeling like it's not.


PATIENT: Yeah. 


COUNSELOR: Then you've got to live with that difference, huh?


PATIENT: Yeah. Or I don't have to live with it. (inaudible) And like I'll sit and think about it and it's, "Oh well...that's simple. I'll [take the next step] (ph) - I'll be able to do it."


But then five minutes later it's just [not feeling so good anymore]. (ph)


COUNSELOR: You think about (inaudible) leaving and it just feels wrong?


PATIENT: Yeah. 


COUNSELOR: What would you do in your little room?


PATIENT: I'd read for awhile. I mean I'd just read as much as I could. I'd try to lose myself in that (inaudible). Go and listen to records. But I don't know I'd probably just - I don't know what I'd do.


COUNSELOR: Cry...write...walk the neighborhood.


PATIENT: I don't like walking my neighborhood too much but when I feel despair (ph) it doesn't really matter too much. I get less (inaudible) [getting knifed in the streets] (ph) because I don't really give a s**t.


I feel like kind of a fool but I just feel really panicky about it. But like - I just saw my [lights on] (ph)...


COUNSELOR: You don't seem panicky. [22:17]


PATIENT: I don't seem panicky?


COUNSELOR: Yeah, you don't sound - you say you feel panicky but...


PATIENT: Well I don't feel panicky right now. So I guess I don't feel panicky about it right now, but just thinking about it. I know what the feeling is like and it doesn't really feel that way now. 


COUNSELOR: Is it more like you're scared you might be...


PATIENT: I don't know if it's whether I'm scared I might be or I actually want to talk myself into saying that's how it's going to be. I don't know why I want to do that but I do. 


To [the large extent] (ph) of my life I've cut off a lot of the friends I used to have, because I just felt that they weren't worth very much and I left myself with very few. And I really depend on them more than they (ph) can return. 


COUNSELOR: Are you talking in general now or [about some people, something?] (ph)


PATIENT: Well like I have about two friends in the world at the moment. (inaudible) I mean there's more but the way - I mean [Ethan, Ross and Rosemary] (sp?] don't really spend much time together so. (inaudible)


A couple minutes here and there. Like I have essentially isolated myself from them [almost anything outside.] (ph) So I've sort of made my life so I just depend on them and that's really no good.


COUNSELOR: What can you do about it now...If you wanted to? [24:15]


PATIENT: I don't know. Change...be different. I don't know what I can do about it 


COUNSELOR: It's just the vague kind of, "Well I have to change something and [this, isn't] (ph) (inaudible)


PATIENT: Yeah they (ph) like you or you don't get the best of me. I don't have too many suits like that. You never can tell.


COUNSELOR: You've kind of been feeling (inaudible)


PATIENT: Yeah. I just - I sort of wish I had an urge to do something like that but don't feel that strong. (inaudible)


COUNSELOR: Kind of like [showing you're confused] (ph) (inaudible)


PATIENT: No you can worst then that, it's just sort of (inaudible)


COUNSELOR: Uh huh. I do. (inaudible) [It's time to give up] (ph)


PATIENT: I don't know if I feel that way all the time. Yeah too much. 


COUNSELOR: You're feeling that way now?


PATIENT: Oh no not really. I'm sort of too interested in talking with you. 


COUNSELOR: How do you feel?


PATIENT: How do I feel? Just waiting sort of you know - not nervous it's just [it's getting a little better.] (ph) Just trying to feel out what's happening. [26:04]


COUNSELOR: You look a little like... (inaudible)


PATIENT: Yeah. Like sort of wishing on the one hand that I had more confidence in myself, but on the other hand - I don't know what I'm afraid of. (inaudible)


COUNSELOR: What kinds of things come to mind? 


PATIENT: Only that I know sometimes that when I'm alone I get really panicky. I get really upset. 


COUNSELOR: You say, "Only that" but yet that must have a lot of meaning and feeling [touched] (ph)


PATIENT: Yeah, it has a lot of feeling and it occupies a lot of my time. (inaudible) I worry about it.


COUNSELOR: Why do you worry about it?


PATIENT: I just talk to myself about it.


COUNSELOR: What kinds of things do you say, back and forth to yourself? 


PATIENT: I just say I don't really want to be in love if I have to do something about it. Like there's nobody else that I really want to be with. The people I do want to be with don't particularly want to be with me. You know so I'm afraid to ask somebody to... 


COUNSELOR: Do you just say, "Hey I'd like to come see you. I'm feeling really crummy."? [28:10]


PATIENT: Yeah, but I can't do that all the time. I can't live a life like that. It just takes the feeling from me all the time. 


COUNSELOR: It feels like it would be all the time. [What do you think?] (ph)


PATIENT: And I just feel so...like there's so little to my life right now. There's so little to latch onto. I'm not really doing what I want to be doing and I don't know what I want to be doing. So there's really nothing to latch onto...so I latch onto people. It can't be all that satisfying because people don't really want to be latched onto. 


COUNSELOR: Why don't you put one of them behind you?


PATIENT: Oh I was just moving them around (inaudible).


COUNSELOR: If it's more comfortable (inaudible).


PATIENT: Well ok.


COUNSELOR: Well you like - part of it's feeling like how I've got to find some way in which...


PATIENT: No I don't say that. I don't tell myself I've got to find a way. All I tell myself is there's nothing to me, there's nothing to my life right now... it's miserable and feels dead. But I don't tell myself I've got to find a way out. (inaudible) ...very rarely.


COUNSELOR: It's the last few miserable...


PATIENT: I generally only feel that when I am feeling good at which point I don't really need to find anything. When I'm feeling bad it just preys on itself. It just doesn't go anywhere. 


COUNSELOR: What would you like to do? [30:05]


PATIENT: What would I like to do? When? 


COUNSELOR: A lot of times


PATIENT: I don't know. I really don't. Just because I don't ever do that much...I just sit around a lot of the time. 


COUNSELOR: Yeah but...


PATIENT: I mean generally if I feel like doing something I go out and do it. But it's just most of the time I don't feel like doing anything. 


COUNSELOR: (sneezes)


PATIENT: (inaudible) yeah I do. I don't feel like being in or out. I don't feel like playing ball...I don't feel like doing much of anything. Which is hard to believe.


COUNSELOR: You find it hard to believe or... (inaudible)


PATIENT: Well I find it somewhat hard to believe since I kind of respect my mind - I think it's fairly active. [And I do] (ph) except it's depressing really. It just seems strange that I would feel that way. Like it just seems less and less and less that I enjoy doing anything. I just go through the motions.


COUNSELOR: But it's not really fun to do, or...


PATIENT: (inaudible) I feel like I'm holding myself back.


COUNSELOR: Did you used to have fun as a kid, you know like when you'd get up for the (ph) day? (inaudible)


PATIENT: It's hard to remember being a kid but like college - which wasn't too long ago - was a good time. Being in a fraternity and drinking beer and playing cards [all day] (ph)...not worrying about women. And it was really easy. 


I didn't question myself very much then but it didn't really matter. The hours were taken care of. I was pretty happy. Didn't have any responsibilities - whatever, didn't have much of a life to lead.


I mean in the sense of like making money (inaudible) [being secure] (ph). So it really - I don't know what happened...it was like crash (ph) and it wasn't as much fun anymore. [32:55]


And now like I've almost totally drifted away from having all male associated and playing cards and poker and baseball - whatever - to just having some girlfriends and ah (inaudible).


Well I got a - I just never really got it straight with myself how my relationships with women ought to be.


COUNSELOR: How you'd like them to be.


PATIENT: Yeah. I mean it ain't right but I don't really know exactly what it's supposed to be - what's best for me. Because I just get really panicky. I get really worried about what I should be doing and how much time I should be spending. And what other people are going to think if I do this or if I don't do this, if I do that. But I have someone (inaudible) or if I do.


COUNSELOR: But a lot of it is worry about other people looking at you - how you want to be?


PATIENT: I think so. 


COUNSELOR: How would you like to be? I mean aside from all that stuff about other people and what they're thinking? (ph) Do you know?


PATIENT: I don't. That's too general of a question. 


COUNSELOR: Huh. Well I was just trying to...Well how would you like it to be with a woman? You know aside - pushing away from the issue.


PATIENT: Well I would sort of like it to be the way I feel right now. Just like living with somebody...


COUNSELOR: What's that?


PATIENT: ...so that a lot of it's just. It's just enjoying the simple pleasures of living with somebody. It's just like eating with people and just being able to banter with people. And also it's sort of; you know the romance that's attached to it all...sort of added to that. 


But like both things, kind of like Jillian (sp?) never having to feel it's a grabby thing as it's a tense -


COUNSELOR: Kind of relaxed and easy. [35: 28]


PATIENT: Yeah. And whereas I wouldn't want it to be my whole life. I'd want it to really be an important part of my life.


COUNSELOR: Let's take a day for example, just like what would it be like for you to get up, and where would you be and then what would you do.


PATIENT: Get up around like 9:00 and then, I don't know whatever would happen - make love or not - sometimes it would happen, sometimes it would not. I'd just get up, brush my teeth, just walk around the house for awhile. [cuddle with her] (ph) (inaudible)...read the paper...


COUNSELOR: Are you talking, or...?


PATIENT: I'm just chatting thinking about breakfast, getting a cup of morning coffee and cooking (inaudible) so. Or maybe, you know some mornings there is not very much time, and that's ok too [because you just sort of] (ph) hurry out. (inaudible). But that's ok. 


COUNSELOR: But the way you talk about it, it's just you. I don't hear how you're with somebody else and...Because like you get up, you brush your teeth, you -


PATIENT: Well somebody else is sort of doing the same type things. 


COUNSELOR: You brushing your teeth together or showering together or...


PATIENT: Well maybe. Sometimes, just sometimes being very together and sometimes just sort of going about doing the same things alone. Clearing the mist out of our eyes... [as it were.] (ph)


A lot of times waking up a little bit later and then being more together...spending some time in bed together and talking, so. [37:26]


COUNSELOR: [Which's better?] (ph)


PATIENT: Just [f***ing] (ph) around. Making love...just waking up late.


COUNSELOR: What's the fun part of that?


PATIENT: What's the fun part? (inaudible) 


COUNSELOR: (inaudible) part?


PATIENT: Oh no it's all fun. I'm a bit shy about talking about talking about this sort of thing. Getting up, going to (inaudible). Maybe spending the day together, maybe not - depending if there is work to do (inaudible).


COUNSELOR: Fun?


PATIENT: Yeah I like it. But you know I don't really want to - I'm a bit confused about whether I want to get married or not. Because I don't think I do...I don't really think you have to get married to live with somebody. But I sort of do want to live with somebody. Because I just want to share that much [of it] (ph) I don't want to just (inaudible)


COUNSELOR: Like that you want more full (ph) and more (inaudible)


PATIENT: Yeah. Well it doesn't have to last forever. Because like certainly with the way I'm - I am right now. I don't plan to be here forever and I plan to make a lot of changes in my...well I'm just going to have to (inaudible) So I realized things are going to be (inaudible) change. [38:40]


COUNSELOR: Your feelings too. You might want [somebody different] (ph) (inaudible) 


PATIENT: Maybe.


COUNSELOR: (inaudible)


PATIENT: Well I just - I just kind of feel it'll work out. Things like that always work out. (inaudible)


COUNSELOR: What types of things would you - let's see you've got to maybe you go off or maybe you'd stay at the house - and maybe she'd go off and maybe she'd stay? What kinds of things are you thinking?


PATIENT: Well as I was going up to work I was thinking about that [for about...something funny later on in the day] (ph) (inaudible) 


Probably just think about maybe cooking something up for dinner or thinking about who I was going to see at work. Or staying home and just thinking about what I would be doing around the house. [See if there would be anything else I could cook] (ph)


I was thinking, well it's a nice day. We're going to do these dishes and then we'll (inaudible). I was playing ball and (inaudible). Think about (inaudible).


COUNSELOR: And how did you think (inaudible)


PATIENT: It's pleasant. Nice. 


COUNSELOR: (inaudible) ...what's kinds of specifics (inaudible)


PATIENT: Um. Just thinking about nice things in the past.


COUNSELOR: Memories of how it was this morning, or...?



PATIENT: Yeah or last night or three days ago. Thinking if we're going to do anything together that night or something. The house (inaudible) ...if she has anything special to do (inaudible at 41:48)


COUNSELOR: Can't you think of other (inaudible)


PATIENT: Just imagining what she looks like (inaudible) She's talking to other people. 


COUNSELOR: Who's she talking to?


PATIENT: It's just the way she is, that way she's like a picture.


COUNSELOR: Kind of visually?


PATIENT: Yeah. (inaudible)


COUNSELOR: And then what?


PATIENT: Well I don't know...where are we at? Are we talking about the ideal thing?


COUNSELOR: Well what a day would be like.


PATIENT: Yeah. Well if I'm the way - if I'm neurotic I can say and think about. Start looking at the clock at 5:00. [43:28]


COUNSELOR: (inaudible) 


PATIENT: It does...it doesn't happen all the time. It happens now. It happens sometimes now.


COUNSELOR: (inaudible)


PATIENT: It's a - where's she at why (inaudible)


COUNSELOR: It's that same kind of thing over and over or do you have fantasies about what she [is doing?] (ph)


PATIENT: Yeah, I have fantasies. (inaudible)...why she's doing this, why she's doing that.


COUNSELOR: And what do you tell yourself?


PATIENT: I tell myself it just proves she's not interested in me she's interested in someone else.


COUNSELOR: Then what do you tell yourself that means? 


PATIENT: That's she's just not that interested in being with me. (inaudible) Well I don't know if I really tell myself that. I don't know.


COUNSELOR: (inaudible)


PATIENT: I don't know. I tell myself, "God damn it this, is really bad. Why is she doing this to me?" [45:06]


COUNSELOR: Why is she hurting you?


PATIENT: (inaudible)


COUNSELOR: (inaudible)


PATIENT: Well it stays and (inaudible) it comes back and then she'll come home and disappear. [45:49]


COUNSELOR: You won't say it to her...would you?


PATIENT: She only has - recently that happened. I just feel like I can't (inaudible).But maybe I'm wrong. (inaudible) [For so many years to keep hurting inside.] (ph) (inaudible)


COUNSELOR: But you're worried about that? Uh huh. Like you grew (ph) up or you... 


PATIENT: Yeah sort of but like I just - It's just better acting the way I feel even if it's lousy then trying to hide it which just doesn't work. Because I will just feel lousy for twenty minutes anyway. Which I will in either case but why just make it (inaudible)


COUNSELOR: (inaudible)


PATIENT: I mean she's... [about this and about lots of stuff] (ph) (inaudible) [It just kind of happens that way.] (ph) (inaudible)


COUNSELOR: Walking out the front door or something...that's what you're thinking huh?


PATIENT: That's what I'm thinking now.


COUNSELOR: Why? [47:16]


PATIENT: It feels kind of lost like I don't care. Sort of drifting back to reality...knowing there's going to be a time lapse of (inaudible).

It never really seems that constructive. (inaudible)


COUNSELOR: What? How's that?


PATIENT: What I do. I mean it just seems like maybe - sometimes I'll feel better for it...sometimes I'll fee worse but I don't really feel that I'm having that much control over it. (inaudible)


COUNSELOR: Like you've got feelings and they're bubbling around in...and you've got thoughts and they're...


PATIENT: Yeah but I don't really know what to do now that (inaudible) I don't know what happens. Sometimes it's like my head's in gear and it's all meshing right and its smooth and then all the sudden it just slips out. I don't know what's wrong. 


I don't know why it happens. Why I've been trying to think about what I tell myself. (inaudible) It just sort of seems to happen. Like I can think about that thing last night...about the car pulling off and her leaving me. Sometimes I just thing about it and shrug my shoulders. (inaudible)


COUNSELOR: How do you think about it then?


PATIENT: Pardon me?


COUNSELOR: How do you think about it...or what do?


PATIENT: How do I think about it? I just think.


COUNSELOR: Like remember the car coming up and how it felt when it came down the street and how you felt when she's gone.


PATIENT: And then (inaudible) wait a minute but maybe...not yet. Don't come in here and (inaudible). What's going to happen and I start telling myself the worst, "Well their just going to blow away and leave."


Or else she'll come up and ask me if I want to come along...which [I haven't taken them up on yet] (ph). But that's better than the other and low and behold (inaudible)...


COUNSELOR: And she did she just left and she didn't even (inaudible). How do you feel now that you're thinking about it?


PATIENT: Pretty bad. It's just like really being hurt...like really being shut off...really being slapped in the face...wanting to be with somebody else. 


COUNSELOR: Who wants to be with me? (inaudible) What are you feeling now?


PATIENT: What I'm feeling now is just wondering about what's going to happen. I'm wondering what she's feeling, and it's so hard to get it out. [50:36]


COUNSELOR: What happened to the (inaudible)?


PATIENT: What happened to it? It just sort of melted into a generally pain feeling about the whole situation. It [creates forms] (ph) into that. I mean that hasn't disappeared out of my head. The hurt feeling remained.


COUNSELOR: Why does this a hurting a relationship [I've got here.] (ph)


PATIENT: And wondering what I am going to say when I go back. It's just you know (inaudible)


COUNSELOR: What the hell am I going to do? How's she going to respond to me?


PATIENT: Yeah [like I say] (ph) well I'm not sure. I really want to prepare myself to say something. On the one hand I feel like I really ought to be decisive and do something and on the other - 


COUNSELOR: Why?


PATIENT: Why? Because I spend so much of my life being indecisive.


COUNSELOR: So you'd like it better...


PATIENT: I don't know. I just sort of feel like maybe that's what I have to do. Because I never do it so I don't know if I like it better or not. 


COUNSELOR: Like you say, "This sure as hell isn't working so maybe I want to be decisive."


PATIENT: Yeah. But then I just - either way I don't know. (inaudible) indecision sets in.


COUNSELOR: It sounds like you get (inaudible)...like a feeling of how you ought to be or something that's outside of what you're really feeling.


PATIENT: Yeah, I don't really feel indecisive.


COUNSELOR: Yeah...not sure what to do and when you're put on to that - some kind of like outside - well I ought to straighten up or be decisive or something...then. 


(Timer rings) Turn that off. You feel the [nickel on the chair.] (ph)


Um...you're putting something external on that feeling of yours and then that's the part where you get stuck. [52:41]


PATIENT: Well I don't do anything is what happens. I respond to it by just...potentionally (ph) responding to what my feelings are and...just not dealing with it. And I feel really bad about it but not too bad about it. But it worries me a little. Maybe that would make me happier if I were more decisive. 


COUNSELOR: Maybe, but you've got to move...by the feelings you are feeling rather than the ones you wish you were feeling. Does that make sense?


PATIENT: Uh huh. 


COUNSELOR: I know your feel hurt. That changes to the crummy, hurtful situation (inaudible). There's edges I guess to the verge of what it means without you or...maybe your undesirable or maybe...


PATIENT: I wonder how far I'd take that [in my life] (ph). I don't really know if I'd let it get that far. I'd just say, "It hurts today." This, is a mess.


COUNSELOR: One thing that - I'm sorry - is that if you don't let yourself feel your feelings fully...it's coming back again and again and again and again and you can't get rid of it. The only way to get rid of it is to not get rid of it. And to let yourself feel that if you (inaudible) then something changes. [54:26]


PATIENT: How do you do that? I don't know quite what it means. I mean, I know what it means but I don't really know (inaudible)


COUNSELOR: Like you understand it in theory but how the hell do you do it - like paying attention to what the pain feels like. And not running away from it by figuring what you ought to do about it. Or how you might look to somebody else or stuff like that. Sort of asking...you know like what does it feels like without - (inaudible) responding to it too quickly.


PATIENT: I don't know what to do though. I don't know. I sort of feel the pain pretty much but I'm a little afraid to what to make of it though.


COUNSELOR: What's it like though...before you make anything up? Like I know a little bit it hurts. It feels like she doesn't love you or doesn't want to be with you. (inaudible)


PATIENT: I was trying to think what I did say...


COUNSELOR: What (inaudible)


PATIENT: Oh I just feel like I'm trying but... (inaudible).


COUNSELOR: Do you feel the pain now or not?


PATIENT: (inaudible) the pain. Now it's just - (inaudible) on the table.


COUNSELOR: (inaudible)


PATIENT: Like I can understand what you're saying but I just don't know to [make of it.] (ph)


COUNSELOR: You're (inaudible) how the hell did I get there?


PATIENT: Yeah. I don't know how I do it. [57:04]


COUNSELOR: [Let me ask you...] (ph)


PATIENT: I'm miserable. Get lost [get stuck] (ph) (inaudible)


COUNSELOR: (inaudible) [Do other feeling come in or do the feelings shift any?] (ph)


[Can you pay attention to her?] (ph)


PATIENT: It just feels very feudal. I just feel like I'm not going anywhere. 


COUNSELOR: I feel feelings and then I feel feudal. [Like I can't move them.] (ph) But what are the feelings like before [you move them?] (ph)


PATIENT: It just feels right now that I [don't have any control of my mind at all] (ph) (inaudible) I don't know what's going on.


COUNSELOR: Feeling like you're weighted down; you're drowning?


PATIENT: No. I'm just nowhere. But not like pleasantly (ph)...you know just... [59:16]


END TRANSCRIPT
