TRANSCRIPT OF AUDIO FILE:
______________________________________________________________________________
BEGIN TRANSCRIPT:
THERAPIST: Good morning.
CLIENT: Good morning. So my short streak of happiness was short-lived.
THERAPIST: OH, sorry to hear that.
CLIENT: Back to feeling stressed out. A lot of it is work-related and just kind of a lot of balls in the air right now. And finally signing the IRS documents right after here, which has just been, like—you know, this attorney has been so frustrating. You know, it's like just doesn't ask for everything all at once and, you know, it's not clear, you know. And Jess is—you know, she's no help, so be glad to get that done and out the door. You know, it's like I can't even put money in my bank account out of fear that it's going to get snapped up by the IRS, you know. So it's like I've got to send them $1650—$1810 on Friday, but I'm afraid to put the money in the account to send it to them because I think they're going to take it, you know, which won't count as my estimated payment if they take it through a levy. [0:01:22] 
THERAPIST: Right.
CLIENT: So it's just—it's very nerve-wracking. I didn't realize I got the bill for my insurance. I kind of wondered, you know—I had to get office insurance; it was like 500 bucks. And I wondered why I never got a bill, and then I realized I got a bill. And I also got a certified letter from my landlord saying that, you know, my insurance is going to be cancelled on the 19th on the—that was my default of my lease. So I had to send the 500 bucks off.
THERAPIST: Right.
CLIENT: Which I was going to use to pay the $1810 estimated payment. Supposed to have two closings on Friday and they only have one. One will get pushed off in the next week, which will make it more difficult to make the 1800 [and gray] (ph) dollar. So it's just, you know, I'm back to dealing with that frustration. The kids' been a real unbelievable unmitigated pain in the ass. You know, like I—I'm not sure of the context, but I texted her, "By the way, Ian (sp?) wanted to spend the night tonight on Friday." [0:02:34] 
THERAPIST: Right. You had mentioned that to me.
CLIENT: And, you know, her response was, you know, "You need to clear this with me and not Ian." You know, I was like, you know, he asked me on Tuesday and I just remembered it, and "That's why I texted you, to let—clearing it through you, you know." And it turns out it's more than that. It's that she was upset that when I decided not to have him over anymore, that the way I handled it in saying, right in front of him—that I didn't want him coming over any more, and I guess, you know, I said I think both in front of her and in front of him. And I'm like "Listen, if he's not listening to me, you know. And to me this is, you know—for right or wrong, this is how I discipline the child. If he's not going to listen to me, he can't come over, you know? He's not listening to me, he's not coming over, and that's the extent of what I said. [0:03:43]
And I told him in front of his little friend Linus (sp?), he's like two years old, and he claims to tell—he told Jess, and he claims that Linus told him that he was upset that he would never see Ian again.
So it's like, you know, she's throwing all this stuff at me that I have absolutely no defense for, no point or room to argue about, and I'm just like, you know, "You've got to be fucking kidding me. You know, I've got better things to do with my life than say you're—being badgered by you over this. You know, this is your main concern about why you don't want him coming over tonight?" I said, "Fine. He won't come over tonight." She's like, "No, no, it's not that." I'm like, "Then what is it," you know? [0:04:19]
(Pause 00:04:19 to 00:04:23)
CLIENT: And I probably shouldn't ask you, but, you know, I mean is there really anything wrong with what I said to him? I mean I told him the truth. I told him how I felt. It may have had some bite to it with some anger, but, you know, that's who I am and how I deal with it, you know. You know, he really had me frustrated.
THERAPIST: Sure. And what was—what was her complaint about it?
CLIENT: That I said this in front of him and I didn't go to just talk to her about it.
THERAPIST: Well, she's concerned about how hurtful what you said in front of him would be to him.
CLIENT: Yeah. And probably more importantly, that I didn't, you know, bounce it off her with, you know, some way to—[0:05:10] 
THERAPIST: I see. Like that you shouldn't go to the oversight committee?
CLIENT: Now, Ian—yeah. "Now, Ian, you're not supposed to—you're supposed to listen to Dada. You're not going to be able to go over there if you can't listen to Dada." And he'll be just like, "Oh, really? That's great. Where's my toys?" you know? I mean so that really put me in a sour mood on Friday, you know? So I didn't even get 24 hours of—enjoyed in my glory. And I saw them at soccer. And one of the things that pissed me off in soccer is like, you know, I'd be about medals. And as soon as I'd come off the field, Lucille is already in her fucking stroller, which I can't take her out now. I can't, you know, play with her. She's ehh, ehh, ehh. You know, she's in the stroller, she's ready to go, you know, instead of Jess leaving her down there and letting me play for a little with her.
THERAPIST: I see.
CLIENT: For a little bit, you know. [0:06:16] 
THERAPIST: Right.
CLIENT: It's like I've had—you know, halftime is the only time I've got to see the girls, like. I'm fucking coaching the soccer game. And so I was miffed about that, and then they go off to do what they wanted to. And I think they went—you know, if I judge Facebook correctly, I think they went to like an art show at the Preschool, which is fine. 
And then, you know, I had asked her. I said, you know, "I need to do some laundry. You know, why don't you leave—you know, I gave you my keys for the back door, which has my keys to get in there. Can you leave those keys in the shed for me?" And I texted her later, "Can you also leave my ear buds," which she picked up in the office? She likes the office. [0:07:05] 
THERAPIST: Good.
CLIENT: One fear of her pooh-poohing was that she complained that I needed First Med and get it lined up and all this other crap. So, umm, I get to the house on Sunday and, you know, I went over, had a—friends that has a surprise 40th birthday party for a guy, you know, who plays handball. And, you know, when I left there I wasn't—you know, I mean I'd been drinking, but I was—you know, we were watching the Celtics game. I had pretty much sobered up.
THERAPIST: Yup.
CLIENT: You know, I had like a beer and I shot a tequila and then left. And when I got home is when I had some more scotch, and that's when I got a little, you know, lit or whatever. 
But, umm, so I woke up on—my goal was to get up Sunday morning and go for a long bike ride. Put the laundry in, go for a long bike ride, come back, and finish doing the laundry, and ride my bike back and forth between the house doing each—you know, getting some exercise, you know, just with these short little trips. [0:08:19] 
So the first chore, of course is in my car because I've got to bring all the laundry over there. And she leaves the key that I gave her for the office, having already told her that I have two, she can keep that key. So I'm fucking just livid. I'm like I can't fucking get in to do the laundry now.
So I called her and left a message, and then we started texting back and forth. And, you know, she always brings this stuff up at a time I'm pissed off and arguing about something else. She's like, "You know, we need to see a mediator about child support and a schedule for the kids," you know, both of which I don't want to do. Because, you know, I can't—I really have trouble spending a lot of time with the kids. I want to see them, but I want to—I can only see them in short doses, you know. [0:09:11] 
THERAPIST: I see.
CLIENT: And I was like, "When are you coming home?" So I could say, "Well, maybe I can do my laundry later."
THERAPIST: Right.
CLIENT: Because she went out to her parents' house to talk about the house, what they can do to help her save the house. And, you know, then I also pointed out, I'm like, "You know, you booked them up for the whole weekend and I don't get a chance to see them." And she's like, "Well, you've got to give me some advanced notice," and that's when I told her about, you know, putting Lucille in the stroller. And I think it clicked off in her mind that, you know, she shouldn't have done that, you know.
THERAPIST: Right, I see.
CLIENT: That there was an opportunity for me to spend time with the kids.
THERAPIST: Right.
CLIENT: And I didn't get to.
THERAPIST: Right.
CLIENT: You know, roll them in, roll them out.
THERAPIST: Right.
CLIENT: And then she texts back that she's going to be home about between two and three o'clock and, you know, I should take the kids to the park. [0:10:07] 
So it's like I get these—you know, after just scratching and, you know, putting myself through hell, I get these little victories. And of course, she's like "Go to the laundromat," and I'm like, "Well, you know, really, I have no fucking choice but to go to the scary laundromat," which I was terrified of. I've just had bad experiences in one of the laundromats. People that work there, they're mean, and there's so many rules and, you know, I'm not a laundromat person. And it turns out I actually like the laundromat. The one I went to was—I was able to put all my loads in at once, dry them all at once; much quicker. You know, it cost me, you know, 15, 20 bucks.
THERAPIST: Right.
CLIENT: But, you know, it was done, so I was home, you know, well before 2:00, 2:30. 
(Pause 00:10:56 to 00:10:58)
CLIENT: But you know, I went over there and, you know, Lucille had just woken from her nap, and she didn't think it was a good idea for me to take, you know, Lucille to the park or whatever, so we just kind of, you know, filled up the kiddie pool in the driveway and played around for a while. And by like 4:30, 5 o'clock, you know, I got over there, who knows, 2:30, 3:00, I don't know. I wasn't there that long. I was done with the kids. I just—I just wanted to get out of there so I could—I want to see the kids, but I want to get out of there as soon as I do, you know. [0:11:38]
And so that's why—that's why, you know, number one, I can't commit to a schedule of support, you know. And number two, I can't commit to a schedule of visitation, you know. It's like, I don't know. I just—my life is—is not planned beyond the day, you know, and just it's hard for me to do that. I don't know, maybe I'm just being stubborn and, you know, I feel like I have this sort of freedom now that I'll lose with that schedule, you know? I mean I thought seeing Ian on Friday night was the schedule. [0:12:23] 
THERAPIST: Umm-hmm.
CLIENT: You know, and then the day she needs me to pick him up from school, she took away the day of my—you know, "Pick a day to drop him off, pick the day to drop him off," and she takes that way, you know, or guilts me into, you know, not doing it anymore. 
And, you know, there's no—I can't take Lucille overnight. I can't take her for, you know, more than a couple hours at a time, you know. It's just she needs her nap, she needs this, she needs that. She needs... You know, it's like she very—it's like every time I see her, she just pulls away and wants to see her mom, and, you know, it's just... Because I don't get time like I got on Sunday to spend time with her, you know. By the time I was leaving, she was all showing off, just laying in funny poses on the bean bag, and you know, trying to, you know—whatever kids do to make parents, you know... [0:13:17]
THERAPIST: Whatever they do.
CLIENT: Yeah. Like God, I hope she doesn't do that when she's a teenager (chuckling).
THERAPIST: She's an 18-month?
CLIENT: Not even.
THERAPIST: Oh, that's right, like 15.
CLIENT: Fourteen, 15, yeah. I can't calculate month. That's what—women do that, and we do years.
THERAPIST: Uh-huh. So one (ph)—
CLIENT: She's a year and a half.
THERAPIST: (Chuckling)
CLIENT: Plus or minus.
(Pause 00:13:45 to 00:13:49)
CLIENT: So you know, it's like I got to see the kids, which was nice, but it was still just—I get to the point where I'm like, you know, we go inside and it's like, you know, I don't get anything out of watching TV with the kids, you know. [0:14:04]
THERAPIST: Umm-hmm. Yeah.
CLIENT: And you know, Lucille's just playing and, you know, they're getting dinner ready and I'm hungry and it's like, "All right, I'm going to leave," and rode my bike and got a sub and just started eating nonstop. I went home and I had the sub. Then I went to Whole Foods, really just to get some chocolate, and I walked out of there with a tuna wrap and some bananas and apples and chocolate, and I ate all the chocolate and the tuna wrap and just—it's like I just stress eat, you know, or sad eat or whatever. Emotional eat, you know. And I had leftovers from the—we had barbecue at the party. I ate all the leftovers at once, you know. And if I wasn't exercising so much, I'd be huge, but I'm not losing any weight so...
(Pause 00:15:09 to 00:15:13)
CLIENT: Then I can't get this woman out of my mind. It's like torturing me, you know. I feel tortured by it. And I was—you know, I've been doing this—started playing this game, Words with Friends. Are you familiar with it?
THERAPIST: I've heard of it. It's like Scrabble, basically?
CLIENT: Yeah, it's Scrabble. And you know what it does is it encourages you to invite your friends. I guess I had—I downloaded it, I played some random person, and I never really looked at it again. Because I just thought it was awkward that you had to invite friends to play. It just seemed weird, you know? It's like I thought people would invite me, and no one really invited me. But then like in the last week or two, because people have been inviting me, I just never—never noticed it. What—I think what happened was I had deleted it from my phone, and it was asking me on Facebook and I didn't realize that it was asking me on Facebook. And so I downloaded it again, and, you know, I played it with someone. And then on Facebook it's like constantly bringing up people's name, and it brought up Barbara's name. And I didn't think that if I pressed the button—I thought it would like give me some option or whatever. I just—I don't know what I did, but I pressed the button, and now all of a sudden, like, I've now started a game with her. [0:16:36]
THERAPIST: Oh.
CLIENT: So I've been playing Words with Friends with her for like a day and a half. I was kicking her ass, but she pulled out this like 61-point...
THERAPIST: Good.
CLIENT: And the word she used was "jilts."
THERAPIST: (Chuckling)
CLIENT: I'm just—I'm trying not to comment about the different words she uses. Like she played "prone." 
THERAPIST: (Chuckling)
CLIENT: I'm just trying not to go there. So I don't know, you know. I just—I feel tortured by it, I really do, and I don't know what to do. And now I can just—what a rational human being would do would be to ask her out or do something like that, but I'm not a rational person. I mean I fear going to the laundromat. You know, it's like I can't bring myself to do so many different things in my life, you know; that this is one of those things that just—I don't know. 
(Pause 00:17:48 to 00:17:57)
CLIENT: I want to get some sort of sign from her, you know, that I mean, who knows, she's probably—maybe never crossed her mind. I don't know, you know. I don't know.
(Pause 00:18:11 to 00:18:36)
CLIENT: It's like the whole thing. Every time I've asked Jess for help, she's like "Call the clerk." I don't want to call the clerk, you know. So I can call the clerk on this case and I don't—I just don't call the clerk. I don't know why. I just—I can't do certain things. I've just got a mental block that I just don't want to do. 
(Pause 00:18:55 to 00:19:12)
THERAPIST: I think you tend to want the other person to deal with it but...
CLIENT: Yeah. But how about the laundromat? What is that? Like not wanting to go into the laundromat?
(Pause 00:19:28 to 00:19:34)
CLIENT: I mean now that I've done it, you know, I have no problems going back there and doing laundry, which I'm going to do because I've done—I'm really sick and tired of fucking Jess.
THERAPIST: Well, my impression is that you get pretty scared of fucking up, I mean at least... 
(Pause 00:19:50 to 00:19:54)
THERAPIST: Yeah, you get worried you're fucking up, and either you or, as likely, somebody else, is going to make you feel—I'm not sure quite what. Worthless, or incompetent? You were concerned about the mean people working there.
CLIENT: Mum.
(Pause 00:20:17 to 00:20:21)
THERAPIST: I mean I was going to be a little kooky about it and say, you know, you're worried about Jess calling them up. She told them you were a fuck-up. Said "Look, my husband's coming into the laundromat to do his laundry. He's totally going to fuck everything up, so you'd better give him a hard time."
CLIENT: Yeah. 
THERAPIST: Kind of like that.
CLIENT: Like I look at it like it's the Soup Nazi.
THERAPIST: Yeah. Everybody's the Soup Nazi. Many people are the Soup Nazi.
CLIENT: There was a Fourth Corners inquest into the woman who lost her baby in 1980 in the outback of Australia, where they blamed it on a dingo. You know, "The dingo ate my baby," which reminded me of the Seinfeld episode where the woman kept talking about "My fiancé; where is my fiancé? So she finally goes, "Where's my baby?" And Elaine is sitting next to her and goes, "The dingo ate your baby."
THERAPIST: (Chuckling)
CLIENT: And the woman's like, "What?" "The dingo ate your baby." The woman gets up and walks away. So I posted that to Facebook last night, and that was funny. I don't think anyone else got it, but you never know. You never know. People are reading these things, but unless they'd like you to put a comment, you have no clue that they've seen it, you know or...
(Pause 00:21:47 to 00:21:51)
CLIENT: I know I've changed the subject but...
(Pause 00:21:52 to 00:22:01)
THERAPIST: Ah, do you worry—do you change the subject because you worry you're going to, like, fuck up with what we're talking about?
CLIENT: Nah, I don't think so.
THERAPIST: I mean I do think that that—because you don't want to take responsibility for anything (ph), including in here.
CLIENT: Yeah. I'm like—it's like I've got a feeling right now in the pit of my stomach of just nerves.
THERAPIST: Uh-huh.
CLIENT: And I don't know what it is, you know. And I'm like—you know, I'm worried about my medication, that it's not working anymore. I went, like, three nights without taking nortriptyline, and I really don't think it affected how I felt, you know? And I've been drinking more than I had been drinking, you know, and I don't know. I don't want to go through another process of trying to find some new medications or... I don't know, but I'm just—it's like right now I'm very anxious, and I don't know if it's with the work I've got to do today. I've got Handball practice today. You know, how do I act around this woman, you know? Do I shave? (Chuckling). It's all white. I'm like you. [0:23:27]
THERAPIST: I—I do think one aspect of this responsibility thing is, uh, I have the impression that you see me as just, like, very responsible, very on top of things, kind of —
CLIENT: You brought this up before.
THERAPIST: Yeah, a little bit.
CLIENT: You use this on all your patients.
THERAPIST: (Chuckling). And then you do this thing where you change the subject (chuckling). I think that you won't (ph) have to deal with what we're talking about. And I guess...
(Pause 00:24:13 to 00:24:21)
THERAPIST: I guess it's also, in a way, taking a whack at me, although I hadn't quite thought about it like that before.
CLIENT: I don't mean it, you know.
THERAPIST: (Chuckling). 
CLIENT: I mean I don't—I don't intend it to be a whack, you know. Just you're here and you're a target (chuckling).
THERAPIST: Well, I think I'm sort of, in those moments, like Jess liked, where I'm saying, like, "Hey, here's something. Maybe you ought to deal with this."
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: And you're like, you know, "How about them Red Sox?" Yeah, right, which is, in a way, go fuck yourself, yeah. [0:25:01] 
CLIENT: I think one of the things I was hoping for this weekend is that—you know, because there are, like, women on my Handball team. And I kind of—I've been trying to get them... You know, it's like I—I don't know. They still—people still see me as married, you know.
THERAPIST: Right.
CLIENT: And so I kind of, like, want to get them to, you know, "Hey, you know, I'm on the market." You know, maybe they'll be like "Oh, there's someone single on the team, you know. So I thought like maybe that would happen on Saturday, but of course it didn't, you know. Just I don't know. I torture myself with this stuff. You know, the same way I tortured myself with Claire, you know. Just...
(Pause 00:25:48 to 00:25:51)
CLIENT: And I knew that doing something stupid with her—I'm not even sure what it was.
THERAPIST: Claire?
CLIENT: Yeah. You know, something I'm—I don't know what I did. You know, whether it was something I e-mailed her right before I went into the hospital or texted or what, or while I was in there, you know. And then I tried, you know, bashing Jess, and then I haven't seen a deal from her since, you know? I've got another deal with her, you know, that I've sent her and have, you know... You know, she sends the e-mail with all the information and she's like, "Oh, it's great. We're working together again." And I was like, "Yeah. Do you have any other deals going, or are you cheating on me with another lawyer, are you really that slow?" you know. It's like I want Jess to kind of feel her out, and, you know, Jess's worthless in that regard. She doesn't get it. She just, you know, wants to complain that... [0:27:06]
You know, it's like the not spending time with the kids. You know, that's my fault, but part of it's because I've been working a lot lately. Then she complains I don't work enough. So it's like I can't win with her, you know, and I'm not going to give up Handball, you know. It's just like, you know, I'm convinced even more now that I need to play Handball because, after reading that thing about, you know, the two things to be healthy is what you eat, and vigorous exercise, and that's my vigorous exercise, you know? And yeah, I go afterwards and I have a social outlet, you know. And I used to not—when I was with Jess I used to not go out afterwards. So I'd think, oh, a couple times a season, you know, and I kind of felt left out in that regard, you know? And, you know, now, I just—I've got no other sort of social contact than really the team, and I really don't, you know; little things here and there, but not a whole lot. And...
(Pause 00:28:15 to 00:28:18)
CLIENT: I don't know. 
(Pause 00:28:25 to 00:28:32)
CLIENT: But yeah, I torture myself and just...
(Pause 00:28:34 to 00:29:00)
THERAPIST: Well, I imagine it's like (inaudible at 00:29:13) and I think just focus on something that makes you feel good. You feel so much pressure. 
Let me put it another way. Related to the changing the subject thing, actually. I think the way that you kind of have used me and want to use me. And not being used in a bad way, I just mean like I don't know (ph) if you suck me into this. It is like, you know, to listen, to be supportive, to understand all the things you're going through, which is a lot, and how, you know, to feel less alone. And sort of like even if you get someone like, you know, who's good and who's there and who wants to help and who's entrusted and, you know, cares how you're doing and... [0:30:21]
CLIENT: Yeah, like a prostitute.
THERAPIST: And...
CLIENT: Trained.
THERAPIST: And my point being but not as someone who—uh, I think at least it feels like is holding you responsible for things. And I think it's probably similar with food and with Barbara, where, you know, like I know in a way that eating doesn't feel good, like, but I think in a way it does. You know, it's just sort of it's gratifying. At least in the moment, you kind of—you don't have to deal with anything about it. It just feels good. I think I could probably like that with Barbara. When you think about having a nice time with her, you know, being together, the sex, the Web, the companionship, whatever, and there aren't that many things like that (inaudible at 00:31:27) just sort of feel good and that don't also involve having to be responsible for something, or having to deal with something, or having to figure something out, or having to stress out about something, or having to put up with something. [0:31:42] 
So I guess kind of like what you do with me in a way, where like the part where a counselor is listening and conveying when they get what you're saying or some of what you're going through, but not the part where it's like, "And gee, what about this," or "how about that," or "it looks like you're doing this." Like that, we don't want that. You know, that's just like—it kind of—that feels like it kind of ruins things, but it's like I imagine to you it feels like the point is to come here and feel less stressed, you know, not to feel like you have more to deal with. And I guess I imagine that the food—and with Barbara it's kind of like, too. You know, at the moment, or in the moment, those things just feel good and they don't sort of burden you, or there's nothing to stress out about, you know, as you're thinking about them.
(Pause 00:32:42 to 00:32:48)
CLIENT: But I do stress out a little bit with Barbara, because, you know, I do think about, you know, the positive things, and then I torture myself by saying, you know, "But this is never going to happen," or, you know, "you're just fooling yourself" or "you're just..." You know, I just beat myself up over it.
THERAPIST: Yeah.
CLIENT: And maybe I do that with food, too. [0:33:11]
THERAPIST: I think that you do, yeah.
CLIENT: Where it's like afterwards, you know, I'm just like, "Oh, now you're a fat sack," you know.
THERAPIST: Uh-huh.
(Pause 00:33:16 to 00:33:48)
THERAPIST: But those are pretty separate experiences. I guess I'm not entirely sure what to make of that, but I contrast it with something like seeing the kids, which, you know, I think feels pretty good in a way, but it's also a lot of work, you know, and requires a lot of patience.
(Pause 00:34:01 to 00:34:08)
THERAPIST: I take your point; that makes sense to me. I know that, you know, it makes you feel bad or upset to be thinking about Barbara this way, or piece through it this way.
(Pause 00:34:23 to 00:34:32)
THERAPIST: But I guess still I imagine part of what's appealing about this thing is that you can—you know, you can kind of, I don't know, indulge in them in a way that can feel good in the moment. And you can also feel bad about it after. But I guess I'm seeing that as different from like, again, dealing with the kids, which I think also feels good, but it's also—you know, it's work and takes a lot of patience.
(Pause 00:34:56 to 00:35:03)
CLIENT: Not to change the subject, but I may have to cancel on you.
THERAPIST: On Friday?
CLIENT: Yeah. Not very professional to roll your eyes like that.
THERAPIST: I didn't roll my eyes (chuckling).
CLIENT: You did. You went... 
THERAPIST: (Chuckling). (inaudible at 00:35:18) (chuckling).
CLIENT: I may have a closing first thing in the morning.
THERAPIST: Okay.
CLIENT: Even if I don't, I've got to be there.
THERAPIST: Want to reschedule?
CLIENT: Yeah. I can't do Thursday morning because it's family breakfast.
THERAPIST: Okay. Let me see what I've got.
CLIENT: Oh, it's my move. And I started playing my brother in Words with Friends, and I'm up by like a hundred points on him. 
THERAPIST: You're up by a hundred?
CLIENT: Yeah. He's not too good.
THERAPIST: Uh-huh.
(Pause 00:35:49 to 00:36:09)
CLIENT: He's telling me he understood.
(Pause 00:36:10 to 00:36:20)
THERAPIST: Umm, okay. 
(Pause 00:36:26 to 00:36:35)
THERAPIST: Let's see. So I assume Friday is just bad for you. Is that true?
CLIENT: Yeah. You know, I'll be done—you know, I'll probably be on record by like 2 o'clock. So if you had something like —
THERAPIST: Later?
CLIENT: Ummm...
THERAPIST: Would the, uh —
(Pause 00:37:03 to 00:37:18)
THERAPIST: How about tomorrow? Umm, do you have any time tomorrow? I've got 2:40 or 11:30.
CLIENT: Umm, I guess I could do 2:40.
THERAPIST: Yeah?
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: Actually, you know what? Sorry. 
CLIENT: That was too easy.
THERAPIST: Umm...
CLIENT: You don't have anything open late in the afternoon on Friday? Jess's dance recital.
THERAPIST: Umm...
CLIENT: Saturday morning. [0:38:17] 
THERAPIST: All right. I'm just thinking here.
CLIENT: That will work.
THERAPIST: How about could you do, like, 10 after 1:00 on Wednesday?
CLIENT: I really was kind of hoping to go up town.
THERAPIST: Okay.
CLIENT: And get some work done there.
THERAPIST: Tell you what? Umm, let's do—why don't we take 2:45 on Wednesday? I shouldn't...
CLIENT: Okay.
(Pause 00:39:06 to 00:39:30)
CLIENT: That will work because I've got to be, umm, at precinct at 4:00 for—to meet with the executive director of the co-op, our one-to-one.
(Pause 00:39:47 to 00:40:04)
CLIENT: That's going to work for you?
THERAPIST: Yup.
CLIENT: You sure?
THERAPIST: Yup.
CLIENT: Tomorrow?
THERAPIST: Tomorrow.
CLIENT: Okay. 
THERAPIST: I'll see you. [0:40:32] 
END TRANSCRIPT
