TRANSCRIPT OF AUDIO FILE:
______________________________________________________________________________
BEGIN TRANSCRIPT:
COUNSELOR: Yeah, now the red light is on.
PATIENT: Here you go.
COUNSELOR: What is that like for you being recorded, because I know that you're aware of it?
PATIENT: I just was aware of it. I just thought about, I just, I don't know. I don't think about it until just now.
COUNSELOR: Um hmm.
PATIENT: Then I forget about it, after about a couple minutes. Every once in a while I think about it when I see it.
COUNSELOR: Yeah, I think when we had talked about it a while ago. There was something that you kind of liked about the way kinda the study and part of it being a video tape kinda carefully.
PATIENT: Well I think you can study the, I mean for you and for whoever else sees this, I think will help you remember things.
COUNSELOR: Um hmm.
PATIENT: I don't really, I mean it's kinda awkward.
COUNSELOR: Right.
PATIENT: But,
COUNSELOR: Like remember what kinds of things?
PATIENT: Like things that I say or do.
COUNSELOR: Um hmm.
PATIENT: I mean so.
COUNSELOR: But that feels important to you.
PATIENT: Yeah and this way I feel a little less psychiatrist or whatever she was, resident, she sat there and took notes all the time.
COUNSELOR: Um hmm.
PATIENT: She didn't have the camera. And so I feel like she was so concerned about missing something, she was writing things down all the time.
COUNSELOR: But meanwhile she was missing you at some point.
PATIENT: Right, exactly. Like if I'm in a class or something I'm taking notes and I'm so concentrating on taking notes that I forget what the next thing he said was. I missed it.
COUNSELOR: Um hmm.
PATIENT: You know what I'm saying?
COUNSELOR: Um hmm. So it might give me more of an opportunity to be more present with you.
PATIENT: Yeah, I don't feel very present right know. I'm kinda out of it. I just got back on my trip on Sunday and I'm kinda jetlagged. 0:02:02.0
COUNSELOR: Yeah, coming this way in particular, yeah.
PATIENT: I thought it was worse going over there.
COUNSELOR: Oh, actually no you're right, you're right, no you're right going east it's worse.
PATIENT: Yeah ok, yeah. But still it's hard. It's just hard getting back into the swing of things.
COUNSELOR: Yeah, and how about coming back here. What was that like for you?
PATIENT: Today?
COUNSELOR: Um hmm.
PATIENT: I don't mind coming. I want to get better and figure out what the hell my problems are and try to fix them. It just takes time. It's hard.
COUNSELOR: Um hmm. So part of it is that you're saying it takes time, but it also sounds like you feel like you're in a rush.
PATIENT: I don't think I'm in a rush. Well I mean I'd like to get it all over with, you know, so I wouldn't have to think about whatever it is I think about. It's just, you know I just have so many things to do all the time. It's just another thing to do. 3:07
COUNSELOR: Um hmm. So therapy, it feels like something that you want to get over with. You just want to get better.
PATIENT: Yeah I mean if I didn't have it so many other things in my life. I mean I like therapy because, I was telling my good friend Angelina in France. Her psychiatrist went on vacation for a week while I was there. And I go "Do you feel like you're all stored up?"
COUNSELOR: Hmm.
PATIENT: I mean she didn't know what I felt like, what I meant really, until a few days later she just started crying. She goes "Now I know what you mean by all stored up." She wasn't able to get what she was feeling out.
COUNSELOR: Um hmm.
PATIENT: So I think it's important to be able to talk out loud about your problems to someone. Sometimes I don't have someone to do, to talk to and I think, "Maybe a therapist will help."
COUNSELOR: Um hmm.
PATIENT: It's just, you know having a set time is good and I have to do it. But sometimes like today it's like, I want to be more organized in my thoughts, but I'm just kinda too tired and don't feel like it.
COUNSELOR: Um hmm.
PATIENT: Because I, every once in a while I'll think "Oh I need to talk about this in therapy, I need to talk about this in therapy." And then I don't feel like talking about that in therapy, or you know.
COUNSELOR: Um hmm.
PATIENT: I want to talk about but it's like, it takes so much energy.
COUNSELOR: Um hmm. So if you, could do or talk about anything you wanted here today. What would it be?
PATIENT: You know there's lots of things I could talk about. One thing just because I see you, you're so skinny. It makes me think of one thing I wanted to talk about. Because my friend Angelina and her husband Franco are real skinny. 0:05:11.4
COUNSELOR: Um hmm.
PATIENT: You know, they'll have a, she'll have a little a bite of her Croissant and she's like said "I'm full". It's like I just want to hit her.
COUNSELOR: Um-hmm.
PATIENT: It's like how can you full over such a little small thing. I don't know if I need more food or what. I can't eat less.
COUNSELOR: Um hmm.
PATIENT: It seem like I just, I'm always hungry or I have to eat breakfast and they go "I'm not hungry. We don't normally eat breakfast." It's like I'm dying, I'm starving. And the next time I eat I just ate everything you know.
COUNSELOR: Um hmm.
PATIENT: I'm just wondering if I'm, like my eating habits are bad or if I'm over eating, or what, or if they're under eating.
COUNSELOR: Um hmm, but you make it sound like it's so easy for them.
PATIENT: It does, it seems very easy. When she said well, she said because, because I told her what I felt about it. I said, "It just kinda makes me puke the way you say that." And she said well, and she said Franco her husband was the same way. When they were growing up they ate to survive. They didn't eat because it was like a reward or whatever. It wasn't a big deal to eat. They just ate because they were hungry.
COUNSELOR: Um hmm. So that was her response to you?
PATIENT: Yeah.
COUNSELOR: Did that feel?
PATIENT: Well, it still didn't make me feel any better. Well what am I supposed to do about now? You know, maybe it is more I enjoy food but. And they'd never have anything to snack on in the refrigerator.
COUNSELOR: Um hmm.
PATIENT: It just kinda, I know this is, I don't know if it's important or not. But I ask a lot of my time just thinks about that. Food. 0:07:03.7
COUNSELOR: Well. It's like you feel like your appetite. You're needs are too big.
PATIENT: Yeah.
COUNSELOR: You're always hungry for things and other people aren't hungry for them.
PATIENT: Yeah maybe. I just want to do, I don't know, it's entertainment or something. Like smoking.
COUNSELOR: So in part it feels like distraction for you?
PATIENT: Yeah. Yeah definitely.
COUNSELOR: What are you distracting yourself from?
PATIENT: Just being there I guess. I need something. Like I need, I like to, like I go buy a soda when I get out because I need something. I feel like I need something to hold.
COUNSELOR: Um hmm.
PATIENT: All the time. Like I'm holding this.
COUNSELOR: Um hmm.
PATIENT: I don't know what to do about that. I've got to get the hair out of my face. Here I am crying when I was talking to my friend who has had a rough time. And I feel guilty for my little problems. But, now I forgot what I was going to say. Oh, because I'm crying. She went to her doctor and she said, "I'm just crying for no reason." I said, "I always cry for no reason." Well, do your therapy.
COUNSELOR: So do you know what brought the tears?
PATIENT: Just now? No. Well, I mean just the whole food thing.
COUNSELOR: So what about that? 0:09:00.5
PATIENT: I just want to be skinny, you know. I guess I don't want to be that skinny or I would not eat. I just get hungry. I just don't have any willpower.
COUNSELOR: So it feels like the only way to be the weight that you want is to really deprive yourself. Again, I'm struck by this because I've heard this before from you. That it, it's like it comes much easier to everyone else.
PATIENT: Yeah, or you know, I was with them 24 hours a day. They are skinny. They do eat less. But I don't see them struggling from. They seem, "Oh well this you know, it was fine."
COUNSELOR: Um hmm.
PATIENT: I didn't see them deny anything, deny themselves anything.
COUNSELOR: Um hmm. Whereas for you it sounds like you really were real hungry.
PATIENT: Dying. Yeah. And maybe I'm hungry because I exercise so much but I don't know. I've had people at work telling me, one of the housekeepers, she doesn't speak much English. But I don't know what that has to do with anything. But she tells me that, she said, "You look too..." She likes me more heavy because my face gets too skinny. But I think that just might be her culture.
COUNSELOR: So she tells you you're too skinny?
PATIENT: When I, now she likes me right now. But when I was thinner. When I was smoking she didn't like me as much. She said my face was too skinny. I looked like a skeleton because I have such big eyes and my cheeks sink in. 0:10:55.3
COUNSELOR: Um hmm. What was, growing up what was your weight like and is weight a big deal in your family?
PATIENT: Oh yeah.
COUNSELOR: You looked kind of surprised when I said that.
PATIENT: Looked surprised? What do you mean?
COUNSELOR: It looked like you were..
PATIENT: At what point?
COUNSELOR: When I said was weight a big deal in your family.
PATIENT: Oh yeah. I mean I'm not surprised by what you're saying. But yeah it was a big deal. Mother was always normal weight. Daddy was overweight. My sister was overweight. Is overweight.
COUNSELOR: Um hmm.
PATIENT: And so I think I've inherited some of my Daddy's fat genes. It's not genetically easy for me I don't think to stay thin. You know he pretty much died of obesity. My sister's over 200 pounds. Well my brother's normal. My sister and my father aren't. Daddy (inaudible at 0:12:19.4) It's always, so Daddy was a big eater. So because he was a big eater there was always food around. It was always tempting.
COUNSELOR: And did you struggle with your weight growing up?
PATIENT: Um hmm. I mean I was always pretty much normal weight but I always constantly was thinking about dieting all the time. All the time. Never have I been severely underweight or anything. I've never been anorexic. In college I took some laxatives for a while but I really don't think they helped me stay skinny. 0:13:06.6
COUNSELOR: Um hmm. And did other people in your family like your father, your mother, whatever pay attention to your weight?
PATIENT: No.
COUNSELOR: So that was just something important to you?
PATIENT: Yeah. I mean I was always lots thinner than my sister.
COUNSELOR: Um hmm.
PATIENT: I've told my mother, you know, "I want to be skinny. I'm on a diet. Blah, blah, blah." So I'll be eating something and then she said, "I thought you were on a diet." And she'd take it back or whatever. And I said, "Yeah, you're right." So she was helping me. But no one ever pushed me to be skinny. I think that was just peer pressure and society made me want to be skinny. Like it does now. I think if I was living in the 1900's I'd be fine, so.
COUNSELOR: It's like you feel like you came from the wrong genes, you're in the wrong century.
PATIENT: Right. Exactly.
COUNSELOR: Um hmm.
PATIENT: And then now my roommate be as big as she is and having food all around all the time. And she's cooking. And she, I mean she puts butter on everything. I don't even have room for food in my refrigerator. That's bothering me. I can't even put anything in there because she's got so much damn shit in there.
COUNSELOR: So it's like she's crowding out.
PATIENT: She's taken over the kitchen. She wants me to put the cat food in the hallway. And it's like I want to leave the cat food in the kitchen. It's like you're fat ass can move around the cat food. Of course I didn't say that. (chuckles) It's hard for me to say things when things bother me. 0:15:16.2
COUNSELOR: Um hmm. What did you mean when you said your father basically died of obesity?
PATIENT: Well he was overweight. And he's always had high blood pressure. He's taken pills ever since I can remember. Probably since his, I think ever since my mother can remember.
COUNSELOR: Um hmm.
PATIENT: He was probably on something when she first met him in his mid twenties or whatever. He was always overweight. His father was overweight. He died of a heart attack. And then in the past five years of my Dad's life he became a diabetic and started taking insulin. Are you looking at the clock?
COUNSELOR: No, I actually wasn't.
PATIENT: Oh, you were just looking. You were thinking. (chuckles) I hate when people in my class look at the clock.
COUNSELOR: What did you think was going on that I was looking at the clock?
PATIENT: To see how much time is left.
COUNSELOR: And why would I be doing that?
PATIENT: To see how much time is left.
COUNSELOR: But because, I mean did you have a thought about?
PATIENT: Because I must be boring.
COUNSELOR: Oh I see. Thought I was boring you. You thought you were boring me.
PATIENT: Yeah, yeah, yeah. And I think that way in my yoga class when I teach something and somebody will be looking at the clock. I'll say, "Are you looking at the clock?" I make people feel uncomfortable. I mean, but I'm laughing and then they laugh themselves because they were looking at the clock. 0:16:59.3
COUNSELOR: Well, but it reminds me of what you're talking about. It's like you feel like you're going to like bore people or overwhelm people or something like your needs are going to take over. And there's also, your, I mean I think it's like what you were talking about with the cameras. Like you're, there's a lot of concern that you have about whether people are listening to you or paying attention to you. And you feel like you're kinda hanging out there alone.
PATIENT: Yeah, I do. Yeah, I do. I sometimes just don't feel like I have any support pushing me on. I mean my mom's there but she's not there every single day. She's not there physically.
COUNSELOR: What are you wanting from people that you're not getting?
PATIENT: Well there's not anybody, I'm getting plenty superficially or whatever. But I just want, I don't know. There's not really anything. I mean I just would like a relationship with a man. That's all. I mean I realize that as I get older everybody gets involved in their own lives and they don't have time for their friends as much. I don't have much time for my friends right now either. So it's hard to do things. I just want somebody there to go home to and say, "Keep it up. Keep it up."
COUNSELOR: Um hmm. Keep what up?
PATIENT: Keep up your fight for like school and you know..
COUNSELOR: Um hmm, you're worn out? 0:18:55.9
PATIENT: Yeah I need more encouragement. I need more help around the house just to get things done. To get me organized. I need more money. I need somebody to pay the rent on time so I can be on time with my bills. she still hasn't paid me for rent for April. I mean she's a good roommate, it's just. And then my friend in France said that it wouldn't help me to lose my temper with her. Just hang in there. She sounds like a good roommate. So I just bide the time.
COUNSELOR: Um hmm. But you kinda get stuck between, or do you feel like you're going to totally lose your temper with her or you just don't say anything at all.
PATIENT: Yeah, right. Yeah. I don't want to appear bitchy. I mean I guess I could always get another roommate, but.
COUNSELOR: Um hmm.
PATIENT: It's just, I want her to get on schedule. I mean I can't, this has been you know, she just moved in January. It's now May. The only month she paid me on time was January. I know she hasn't worked. But you know if she was going to move in with me she should be able to, I don't know. Call her parents or something. Because I've had to pay a lot of insufficient funds fees because of her.
COUNSELOR: So what's going on that she's not paying her rent? 0:20:59.4
PATIENT: She hasn't been working as much as she did last year. She's a free lance web designer. And there just hasn't been work available for her like there was last year. Now she's working a little more. She's doing better. She says it's going to be better. She's going to be caught up. But she's not caught up. Now I would like her to pay her rent no later than May 5th and I think that's being reasonable. Or May 1st but she hasn't paid April 1st yet. She's two, she's two phone bills behind.
COUNSELOR: Um hmm.
PATIENT: And one water bill.
COUNSELOR: And how does that work between you? Do you guys just split it?
PATIENT: Split it. She splits it. We split that.
COUNSELOR: Uh huh. So you've been paying for those on your own and she's supposed to pay you back?
PATIENT: Um hmm. But I've got so many other bills that are going on. And just can't get caught up. So do you want me to finish telling you about my Dad? I told you how Daddy died, right?
COUNSELOR: If you did, you know I don't remember.
PATIENT: Ok. Well I mean it's just the basic just overweight. Well he was diabetic the last five years of his life. He had to go in every year for a stress test. And the last stress test he had he failed it. And they said he needed to come in immediately to get a. I forget what they called it. Some kind of exploratory surgery to find out where the cloggage is in the arteries. So,
COUNSELOR: Angiogram.
PATIENT: Huh?
COUNSELOR: An angiogram?
PATIENT: Maybe something like that. Well they put something in there and they put purple die in it. 0:23:01.4
COUNSELOR: Yeah.
PATIENT: And so he was, they did that. There was a lot of cloggage. They didn't even let him go home. They wanted him to stay and get a triple bypass. So he got a triple bypass. The next day he had a heart attack in the hospital which killed his brainwaves. There weren't any brainwaves left at all. On the MRI I think it's called. And it didn't improve. We didn't know if it would improve or not. And he didn't want to, if there wasn't any hope he didn't want to stay on and so we just..
COUNSELOR: If there wasn't what?
PATIENT: Any hope.
COUNSELOR: Uh huh.
PATIENT: To him having a normal life again so we just unplugged him. (chuckles) And then he died within an hour. A week later after the hospital, after the surgery.
COUNSELOR: You know what though? You just laughed when you said, "So we just unplugged him."
PATIENT: Yeah because it just, you know it sounds funny.
COUNSELOR: Uh huh. As if you were like a lamp or something.
PATIENT: Inanimate. Yeah. But he, he's funny. He talked like that.
COUNSELOR: Hmm?
PATIENT: He talked like that. He's funny.
COUNSELOR: Um hmm. He had a sense of humor?
PATIENT: Yeah. (crying)
COUNSELOR: You miss him?
PATIENT: Yeah. (inaudible at 0:24:26.9) Because he died, my mother I mean my mother is not there as much now. Ever since she got married. It's not the same.
COUNSELOR: What do you mean because she died he's not there?
PATIENT: Because he died. It's like, well not because, because she's not with my Daddy. She's with another man. My stepfather who I love and adore but it's just not the same.
COUNSELOR: Uh huh.
PATIENT: And I just feel like I lost a little bit of her too. 0:25:05.2
COUNSELOR: Um hmm.
PATIENT: You know I feel so guilty for being, crying about you know Dad's death. That's never wrong. But my poor friend has had so many problems. She was raped by her cousin repeatedly since she was thirteen.
COUNSELOR: Angelina, the one you just saw?
PATIENT: Yeah. She doesn't have a chemical imbalance. They just diagnosed her with post traumatic stress syndrome.
COUNSELOR: Um hmm.
PATIENT: You know she's just had a rotten time.
COUNSELOR: And so how does that relate to?
PATIENT: How does it relate to me? It makes me feel guilty for my minor problems. I mean if I compare.
COUNSELOR: And you say your father's death is a minor problem?
PATIENT: No but everybody has to deal with that problem. You know everybody has to deal with their parents dying. And my fathers death, I mean that's, I don't look at it as a problem. I just feel like it's just life. But all my other problems as far as getting along with people, and my weight issue and all that and men, those are my problems that everybody doesn't have. That I think are minor compared to my friend Angelina's.
COUNSELOR: Um hmm.
PATIENT: So, that's the story.
COUNSELOR: What do you miss about your dad? 0:26:56.6
PATIENT: Just him being there. I mean I wasn't really that close. I was closer to him in the last years of his life than before. But just the sense of normalcy knowing that he's there.
COUNSELOR: Um hmm.
PATIENT: You know just being the way it is. Some kind of childhood thing that I can go back and relate to. Seeing him, knowing that he's going to be there to hug me and love me you know?
COUNSELOR: Um hmm.
PATIENT: I mean I wasn't, I didn't talk to him on the phone a lot like I do my Mom. He just wasn't a big talker. Oh, I'm all cried out. Now I'm going to look at the clock. (chuckles)
COUNSELOR: You know one of the things that I'm realizing is that there's a way that, like whenever you start talking about something that you kinda cut yourself off. And I find myself feeling a little bit all over the place with you. That it feels, there' s something that feels disjointed.
PATIENT: Well I don't, yeah I know what you mean. I don't feel like I'm getting. I'm talking about something and it just doesn't seem like it's going to lead anywhere so I stop talking about it.
COUNSELOR: Uh huh.
PATIENT: I feel like I've said enough. It's like how can I get to a, I don't know where the issue is, what direction I should go. I just feel, "Well, that's that." It's like what can I do about it. Nothing. So let's move to the next subject. Maybe I can find something else to deal with.
COUNSELOR: So it's like you're, you're kinda talking about these things hoping that you'll find some way to deal with them. And then when you find that you're not getting anywhere..0:29:02.3
PATIENT: Then I go on to the next thing and see if I can deal with something else.
COUNSELOR: Uh huh. Well I think what I'm thinking about is like I kinda feel the same way. That I'm having a hard time knowing how to be helpful with some of these things or..
PATIENT: Yeah, I know. I don't know how to further progress. I don't how to deal with any of my, I don't know what the core issue is. I don't know what to do.
COUNSELOR: Um hmm.
PATIENT: I just feel like I'm bitching.
COUNSELOR: Um hmm. Well, I think that what happens is there's a way that you feel kinda overwhelmed by your problems. And that you see things that you want that other people have. But that doesn't necessarily push you to know how to get it. Or to get it. It's like you just kinda feel like, "Why the hell don't I have that?" And you kinda give up from there.
PATIENT: Well I'm not giving up.
COUNSELOR: Uh huh.
PATIENT: I don't think I give up. I think I'm trying to get myself on some path. I am on a path I think, to get some place. Even though it's really hard. I mean I'm having a hard time with my biology. I'm studying my ass off but I'm still not doing well. 0:31:04.4
COUNSELOR: Um hmm.
PATIENT: And I think, I don't know, I know it but then I get to the test and the words don't come for me. And I just don't do well. I mean, maybe I need to study harder. I don't know. But I know the last biology test I was just like, it felt like I was, it felt like I was acting. I was going to go on stage. Except for it was ten times worse. My stomach was, I just needed, I felt like I had an upset stomach. My heart was racing and it just. And I just get all freaked out.
COUNSELOR: And is that what usually happens to you with tests?
PATIENT: No. I haven't had tests in a long time. But I've always had anxiety. Unless I feel really incredibly prepared.
COUNSELOR: Um hmm.
PATIENT: And I didn't. I mean even though I studied and studied and studied, I didn't feel like I studied enough. I didn't feel like I knew it enough.
COUNSELOR: With this past test. Or with tests in general?
PATIENT: Well this whole thing. No just this whole biology, yeah. And I'm thinking maybe I should just drop it. And try it again next semester. You know maybe I can do better next semester. And then it'd just take me forever.
COUNSELOR: Uh huh.
PATIENT: It's just. I've got to talk to my Mom about it. And she'll be pissed.
COUNSELOR: Over what, what are you hoping to get from your Mom by talking to her about it?
PATIENT: Well, she's putting me through school.
COUNSELOR: Uh huh.
PATIENT: And if I tell her I'm dropping it, she'll get mad.
COUNSELOR: Uh huh.
PATIENT: But if I'm doing poorly. I mean I'm going to pass it. But I need to get a B at least. I'm not going to get a B. Unless I make a hundred on the final and a hundred on the next test will I just get a B. 0:33:11.1
COUNSELOR: Um hmm.
PATIENT: That's not going to happen. I don't see how I could get a hundred on the next test.
COUNSELOR: Um hmm.
PATIENT: And then that, you know that week right before I went away I had three test. And then my biology lab test I didn't study for it as much as I studied for my other two tests. And I know I did poorly on that. And I did poorly on my biology. And I just, and I know I'm not stupid. I know I can do it. So it makes me mad when I get a bad grade. Because I feel like I know it.
COUNSELOR: Uh huh.
PATIENT: It just makes me mad.
COUNSELOR: Makes you bad?
PATIENT: Mad.
COUNSELOR: Mad.
PATIENT: I'm sorry. It makes me mad. And then these people next to me, they said, "Well I feel like I did really well on the test." Well I don't know if I did well on the test or not. And then they come out with a ninety-something and it's like. And they don't study as much as me. I don't know. Maybe it's because I'm not interested in it as much. I'm not retaining it. I don't know. I'm doing fine on my sociology test and I'm barely, class, and I'm barely studying for that.
COUNSELOR: Um hmm. What's the difference?
PATIENT: sociology is more interesting. And I pay attention more in class.
COUNSELOR: Um hmm.
PATIENT: It's just so hard. And then I get into class and then he was going over the test. And it's like I'm thinking, "What am I going to do, what am I going to do?" I start thinking about all these other things and I'm not thinking about what he's actually saying.
COUNSELOR: Um hmm.
PATIENT: And then I'm paying this tutor to help me and that's not, it's just wasted money. Because it's not working. 0:35:02.7
COUNSELOR: So it actually feel like you're trying to do a lot to kind of make this, to get a better grade in biology and that it..
PATIENT: It's just not happening. And I would hate to tell somebody that it was just too hard and I failed our. I'm not going to fail the class I know. But I'm not going to make a B or an A like I need to. If I want to get into graduate school I have to make all A's or with maybe a B in biology. But Chemistry and Anatomy and all those kind of courses I need to make an A. And I think I'll be fine in those classes. But biology is like, I have to take Physics too and that's going to be more of the same. And it's just like, "Oh God."
COUNSELOR: Um hmm.
PATIENT: It's just like in the biology Lab class it's like they ask questions. Well, where am I supposed to get the fucking answer to it? They just, it's like they want me to think in my head and make like an assumption. I don't know, it's just. The information's not there. It's not clear. I don't know. I need a better tutor I guess.
COUNSELOR: You want someone to help you. And I guess I'm also struck by I think that you also want me to help you. And I think I'm just you know continue to be aware as you're talking that there's a way that, you know I feel kind of helpless to help you.
PATIENT: Well, I can't, I don't know what to do about that. How can you help me? I don't know how. I don't think it's my job to find that out.
COUNSELOR: So wait a second there. What just happened? Did you feel like, it seems like you may have thought I was saying to you, "You're not doing this right."
PATIENT: Well, because I'm like so scattered all over the place I can understand why you don't know where to go. But I don't either. And you're the one that has all the knowledge. I don't know.
COUNSELOR: Jenna?
PATIENT: What?
COUNSELOR: Where are you going?
PATIENT: (crying) I don't know. I don't know.
COUNSELOR: Well what just happened?
PATIENT: What do you mean? What do you mean what just happened.
COUNSELOR: Because you're going somewhere and I'm not sure where you're going.
PATIENT: Well, you just said, "I don't know how to help you." And it's I don't know how to help me either. What am I supposed to tell you when you say that?
COUNSELOR: Ok, so when I said that to you how did you feel?
PATIENT: It made me feel like I was wasting my time.
COUNSELOR: Oh.
PATIENT: It's like, why the fuck am I here if you can't help me?
COUNSELOR: Uh huh. So, did you also get pissed off when I said that?
PATIENT: Yeah, kinda yeah. But when I get pissed off I can't get mad, I just cry.
COUNSELOR: Yeah because it strikes me that it would be a lot more powerful if you said to me, "Now that pisses me off."
PATIENT: Well, I've never been able to do that. I always just cry.
COUNSELOR: Uh huh. It's like you kinda crumple.
PATIENT: I always, I've always done that. I can't get mad.
COUNSELOR: What do you think would happen if you get mad at me?
PATIENT: I don't know. I mean I get mad but I just, I've never been able, I mean as long as I can remember I've never been able to yell or scream. I mean I can yell or scream but I can't get, do it without crying.
COUNSELOR: It's more like you, it's more like you give a fit rather than feeling like you got angry. 0:39:05.5
PATIENT: And I can't stand it when people say I have a fit. You provoked it, damn it. You know it pisses me off.
COUNSELOR: Are you saying that to me?
PATIENT: Well like you or whoever would have done it.
COUNSELOR: Um hmm. Um hmm.
PATIENT: Why do people, what's wrong with a fit? This is the way I show my emotions.
COUNSELOR: Well I think what's wrong with it is that you don't end up feeling very good about it. And you don't end up feeling, you feel like you are kind of powerless. And you know, that you're not getting what you want. So I think that's what's wrong with it.
PATIENT: Well how am I supposed to get what I want then? I don't know how to do it. If I say something I want and whoever I'm talking to at the point does not get it. I don't know how to make them get it. So I get upset and I cry. And I feel powerless. I feel helpless. I don't know what to do and I get upset because nobody understands me. I can't get my point across.
COUNSELOR: Um hmm.
PATIENT: Or if I can get my point across they don't get it or whatever. I don't know.
COUNSELOR: Well I think you're getting your point across. I think I'm very aware of how kind of helpless you feel. So you are getting your point across. I think what happens is that you don't know kind of where to go from there. And that there's something that's happening between us that I start to feel that way too. And that's what we need to understand. Because my sense is from what you're saying is that this doesn't just happen with me. That you feel like it happens with a lot of people.
PATIENT: Yeah. Yeah, right. 0:40:55.3
COUNSELOR: So there's something to this and...
PATIENT: You're not going to have any Kleenex left.
COUNSELOR: Yeah, it's like I'm not going to have any Kleenex left. You know you feel like you have overwhelmed me and like we're both like helpless to know what to do. But I think Jenna, what this is this is part of finding out where to go. It's like we have to go through this in order to figure out where to get to. It's like this is part of the process.
PATIENT: And you think we're going to be able to, I mean this thing is supposed to be 30 sessions. Do you think we're going to be able to get to the point in 30 sessions? I mean that's the whole thing.
COUNSELOR: Well, I don't, I think we'll be able to get somewhere. I don't know if you'll get. I guess I don't know what you want out of the 30 sessions. I mean where would you like to be. What does that mean?
PATIENT: I don't know where I want to be. I just want to be able to get through things and feel more confident about myself. And don't get shit on and be more, I don't know. Just be more confident and be able to make a success out of myself. That's all I can say.
COUNSELOR: Um hmm. Well, I think that if we continue to work on this and kinda what just happened between us. And understanding that yes, you can get something out of that. Because I think there's a way that you kind of give up and get so frustrated when you feel like someone isn't hearing you or someone isn't able to help you that you throw your hands up. And yeah, I think that's, we need to help you figure out another way.
PATIENT: Yeah. 0:42:59.9
COUNSELOR: And that, see that's the problem with having like, you know a fit, or whatever you want to call it. Because it's giving, like giving up. It's like you're so frustrated that you're giving up.
PATIENT: Well it doesn't seem like I'm going anywhere.
COUNSELOR: Ok. And part of our work together will be your hanging in there with this process of figuring out where we're going.
PATIENT: Yeah, I see what you're saying. Well, I know we don't have time, but.
COUNSELOR: We've got another minute left.
PATIENT: I mean I had, this is a long story so I don't have time. But I had a similar situation with my boss and I've hung in there.
COUNSELOR: Good.
PATIENT: But I mean now it's worked it out. I'll have to get into it later.
COUNSELOR: Ok. So how are you going to feel leaving?
PATIENT: Like shit. I don't know. Like upset.
COUNSELOR: That doesn't tell me. Upset?
PATIENT: Upset.
COUNSELOR: What do you mean upset?
PATIENT: Crying like I'm doing right now. I'm still overwhelmed. I've so many things I've got to do. I'm thinking about the biology. I've got to call my Mom. Got to do this that and the other thing.
COUNSELOR: Um hmm.
PATIENT: I'm just overwhelmed. It just seems like there's no end in sight. That's all. 0:45:00.8
COUNSELOR: Well my sense is that you actually probably will, you know how to do what you need to do. Like you're going to call your Mom. You know how to do those things that you need to do. But that there's something about doing those things that you just...
PATIENT: Well I've got to do them. And I just, you know, want to make sure that I'm doing the right thing.
COUNSELOR: Um hmm.
PATIENT: And I feel like I'm giving up. Like you said, I'm throwing in the towel and giving up on the biology. I don't want to do that.
COUNSELOR: Yeah.
PATIENT: But I don't see there's any other solution. But that's the way I've felt in the past and I don't know if it's right. And I don't want to keep mooching off my Mom.
COUNSELOR: So, we do need to end Jenna. But I'm just wondering, if you had, do you know what you wanted from me today? Like if you kinda left here feeling like you got what you wanted, what would that have been?
PATIENT: Well, I would feel good. But I didn't come in wanting anything. I didn't have like anything in mind.
COUNSELOR: But you wanted to leave feeling good?
PATIENT: Yeah, I'd like to ultimately, yeah.
COUNSELOR: Ok.
PATIENT: (chuckles) All right. Oh man, I'm all congested. 0:46:49.2
END TRANSCRIPT
