Transcript of Audio File:
______________________________________________________________________________
BEGIN TRANSCRIPT:
THERAPIST: Hey.
CLIENT: Hey.
THERAPIST: What's on your mind?
CLIENT: I don't know where to start.
THERAPIST: Yeah?
CLIENT: I mean, I guess there's the always ever present problem of being able to focus on work and getting work done. This morning when the alarm was going off, I just couldn't get myself out of bed. I went back to sleep for another hour and then finally I decided... So I was mentally balking at driving to work. So I e-mailed my boss and said I would be working from home and set up my feed cam (ph) and logged on. I mean, I got some stuff done. Probably the same amount of actual work product done that if I would had gotten done if I had gone into the office.
THERAPIST: Mm Hmm. [00:00:57]
CLIENT: Just spent so much time screwing around doing other stuff. And it's super frustrating to me, both the fact that I couldn't get up even though I went to bed at a reasonable hour and I couldn't get myself to go to work. And once I decided I was going to work from home it was really hard to stay focused on actually getting things done. It was really upsetting. And I don't know what to do about it.
(PAUSE) [00:02:01]
THERAPIST: I'm aware this is another terrible question (LAUGHTER) but what else comes to mind next or what can you think of?
CLIENT: I don't know. I've been more down on myself than usual the last couple days about my weight and the whole fitness situation. It's... (PAUSE) [00:03:01]
In theory, I'd like to be going to the gym and working out three or four days a week but in reality at the end of the work day and driving an hour to get to and from work it's really hard for me to get myself to go to the gym. And there's just, there's all these things that would make it easier. Like, packing my gym bag the night before instead of rushing around in the morning. I can't, I've lost count of the number of times I haven't gone to the gym because I didn't get my gym bag packed.
THERAPIST: Right.
CLIENT: I could pack it the night before but by the time I get home from work and make something to eat, I just have no energy left...
THERAPIST: Yeah.
CLIENT: ...for anything other than vegging out with a book or the TV.
THERAPIST: Mm Hmm.
(PAUSE) [00:04:01]
THERAPIST: (inaudible at 00:04:15) is where the sort of frustration with yourself and the struggle against it can be so exhausting...
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: ...that it can make it harder to do things....
CLIENT: Yep.
THERAPIST: ...which makes you feel worse.
CLIENT: Yep. (PAUSE) It really is not sustainable but Dave is digging in his heels and refusing to move out of our place and even if he were willing to move there's still the matter of breaking the lease and paying fees for that and...
THERAPIST: Did you just sign?
CLIENT: Yeah. (PAUSE) [00:05:07]
And our landlord needed to know. He gave us a June 30th deadline for deciding whether to renew for next year.
THERAPIST: Oh.
CLIENT: ...or not. Even though last year's lease goes to August 31st. The new lease is from September to September. Because he does 13 month leases (inaudible at 00:05:310 from May to May, June to June, July to July, up to September now.
THERAPIST: Huh.
CLIENT: I don't know why he does it that way. But... You know, and mid June I was, you know, still recovering from (inaudible at 00:05:55) from the Spring and I didn't even...
THERAPIST: Yeah.
CLIENT: The thought of moving was just too overwhelming so I said, "You know what? Screw it. I'll put up with the fees for a year and sign the damn lease." But it's funny. It's not sustainable at all. [00:06:05]
(PAUSE)
THERAPIST: What are the difficulties?
CLIENT: Hmm?
THERAPIST: What are the difficulties that come with the commute?
CLIENT: Well it's just long. I spend two hours a day in the car and that's miserable.
THERAPIST: Uh huh.
CLIENT: And I also, I get very sleepy when I'm in a moving car.
THERAPIST: Uh huh.
CLIENT: So I sit in the commute and struggle not to fall and sleep and I'm terrified that I will fall asleep and kill myself or someone else and that's bad.
THERAPIST: Uh huh.
CLIENT: And it's just, it's emotionally taxing especially because there are a couple of bottlenecks on the commute where it's just really slow stuck, you know, going one or two miles per hour, stop and go for 15 or 20 minutes.
THERAPIST: Mm hmm.
CLIENT: So by the time I'm done and get out of the car, either at work or at home, I have no will power left to do anything.
THERAPIST: Really?
CLIENT: So, you know, I get to work and probably the first half hour that I'm in the office I'm just kind of staring at the wall of my cube, not able to focus. I hate it. I hate it, hate it, hate it. And it's such a huge waste of time. It's time that I could use, I could be sleeping or enjoying my life or getting work done or going to the gym. But I'm not because I'm in the fucking car two hours a day and that sucks. [00:07:59]
And it pisses me off that Dave isn't willing to even think about living somewhere else. Like, I suggested Springfield, which is, you know, still a reasonable public transit place. There are places in Springfield where, that would cut 15 to 20 minutes off each end of my commute. But Dave's like, "Oh I hate Springfield. Springfield is a horrible city. I won't even consider it." (PAUSE) And I mean, honestly the way he just refuses to even consider moving and every time I bring it up saying, "Well, even if we moved north, at most you'd save 10 minutes off your commute." Well first of all, 10 minutes that's 15 percent. That's... Well, 10 minutes off each end, that's 15 percent.
THERAPIST: Right. [00:09:01]
CLIENT: That's actually significant. And second of all, like this bizarre idea that we can only live in this region and not and of the like inner ring of suburbs.
THERAPIST: Mm hmm.
CLIENT: Especially because he walks to work. He walks 10 minutes to get to work and it's so unfair.
THERAPIST (LAUGHTER)
CLIENT: And the fact that he refuses to acknowledge this really makes me angry and I've seriously considered that maybe it would be better if we just had separate apartments.
THERAPIST: Mm hmm.
CLIENT: And only saw each other on weekends which is kind of terrible, but yeah.
(PAUSE) [00:09:57]
THERAPIST: Mm hmm.
(PAUSE) [00:10:53]
Well (PAUSE) I guess (PAUSE) why I'm pausing and probably furrowing my brow is because, you know, I question that if you thought... How it seems to me as you're talking is like there are these repeated, I guess I could call them like micro-examples, of your getting frustrated and then kind of coming to a halt. [00:11:55]
CLIENT: Mm hmm.
THERAPIST: You know, like it's almost as though before each pause in what you're saying I can sort of kind of, "Ah! I'm sick of this shit!"
CLIENT: Mm hmm. (LAUGHTER)
THERAPIST: You know, and then a kind of micro shut down.
CLIENT: Right.
THERAPIST: ...where you stop talking. And in a way, I recall you not liking the silences. I'm hesitant to just kind of fill them...
CLIENT: Mm hmm.
THERAPIST: ... because to me that seems, in a way, a distraction from the issue.
CLIENT: Mm hmm.
THERAPIST: So... And I'm also hesitant to keep asking you what's on your mind because I know you're sick of that question.
CLIENT: (LAUGHTER)
THERAPIST: But I do think it's this very dynamic...
CLIENT: Mm hmm. [00:13:01]
THERAPIST: ...that is implicated in trouble you have in various settings. (PAUSE) And (PAUSE) I guess that's why I'm hesitant to do something that would sort of, in a way, distract from it or move our attention away from it.
CLIENT: Mm hmm.
THERAPIST: I guess the other (PAUSE) angle (PAUSE) from which I could approach it is to think about... (PAUSE) [00:14:09]
Yeah, I guess another dimension of this is it seems to me like (PAUSE) you, sort of, want me on a larger scale and a smaller scale to help you out with it. You know, clearly on a larger scale while you're here.
CLIENT: Yep. Right. [00:15:05]
THERAPIST: But I think also on smaller scales, like when you're stopped or stuck, with helping kind of bridge the gap or asking a question or making an observation or kind of saying something that...
CLIENT: Mm hmm.
THERAPIST: ...that I don't know what, that helps you get going again that reassures you or is soothing a little bit. I'm not quiet sure.
CLIENT: Mm hmm.
THERAPIST: And, it's not that I don't want to help, it's that I'm wary about (PAUSE) helping in a way that sort of (inaudible at 00:15:55) finesses rather than addresses (LAUGHTER) the way you get stuck.
CLIENT: Right. Right. [00:16:07]
THERAPIST: What are your thoughts?
CLIENT: I think that's all on point.
THERAPIST: Mm hmm. (PAUSE) Do you know what it is you want from me in those moments? I'm asking because it's, you know, probably reflective of something. I don't know what it's like for you when you're stuck.
(PAUSE) [00:17:01]
CLIENT: I guess when you say, you know, "What else is on your mind?" or "What else is there?" things like that, it kind of feels to me like you think something I just said isn't meaty enough to get into so I sit there racking my brains to come up with something more real.
THERAPIST: Oh.
CLIENT: Like, the frustrations with the commute and you know, being upset with Dave, I mean, that's a problem. But, it's just something that I grabbed because I felt like the whole question of how do I stay focused at work wasn't, I don't know, worth digging into, I don't know how to phrase that.
THERAPIST: Oh. (PAUSE) [00:18:01]
I think (inaudible at 00:18:07) worth considering (inaudible at 00:18:09) Like, that's not where I'm coming from at all.
CLIENT: Okay.
THERAPIST: I mean, to put it one way, like what happens usually, because I don't have enough dots to connect yet.
CLIENT: Mm hmm.
THERAPIST: Or I don't have a feeling yet about what I can say that's helpful.
CLIENT: Okay.
THERAPIST: And the only thing I'm intending to ask of you is like quite literally, what is going through your mind at that moment or what was the thought that you had subsequent to the last one. You know, something almost more like maybe classic metaphor for association is like going through a train or going on the train and just sort of saying what you see going by. Something more like that. [00:19:20]
CLIENT: Hmm.
THERAPIST: Although you would have no way of knowing any of this unless I said it so I'm not trying to blame you. (LAUGHTER)
CLIENT: Right
THERAPIST: But I'm just saying that's where I'm coming from is like not that I think the stuff about work isn't terribly important. I just haven't heard enough about like, sort of where you're at at the moment... [00:20:02]
CLIENT: Mm hmm.
THERAPIST: ...which I learn sort of by you telling me directly but more often just in general with you like from hearing and thinking about like your associations and what you say and stuff like that. I guess also the part that doesn't surprise either of us that you had knowing what I was asking for, what I was from that the thing you imagined was something along the lines of what you just produced is not good enough, so please do better.
CLIENT: Shocking.
(PAUSE) [00:21:05]
THERAPIST: Yeah. Does that seem different?
CLIENT: Yeah.
(PAUSE)
THERAPIST: Okay.
CLIENT: (inaudible at 00:21:42) meeting with my manager and he actually did call me out on my web browsing at work and and told me that he was starting to notice it and please cut back. Which made me feel really shitty because I've been trying to stop it and I haven't been able to and it's just... (PAUSE) [00:22:10]
I'm really scared that this job is going to go down in flames like every job I've ever had before. Like, (inaudible at 00:22:21) like everything has and it's just... I'm so angry at myself for not being able to just focus and do my work like everyone else in my group.
(PAUSE)
THERAPIST: I mean there are other ways of looking at this and talking about this which I think is what we're doing. [00:23:05]
CLIENT: Mm hmm.
THERAPIST: Like, I think it's a form of depression and depression sucks.
(PAUSE) [00:24:01]
What else comes to you?
CLIENT: I was thinking about a game I was playing earlier today and in my head critiquing some of the design shortcomings (inaudible at 00:24:23) Nothing terribly deep.
THERAPIST: Tell me about it.
CLIENT: So...
THERAPIST: There, for what it's worth, there's no way. I mean like, I know (inaudible at 00:24:43) It's very difficult to predict how useful the next association is going to be. I know, you know. This is really just trivial. Like, to give you an example, I had one happen like just the other day (inaudible at 00:25:03) well, you know what we're talking about it important but what I'm thinking about is just totally stupid and they said what it was and it was immediately obvious to both of us that like entirely relevant from a very different angle of what was just being said. And like, I'm not saying that always happens and like sometimes come associations go no where whatever.
CLIENT: Mm hmm.
THERAPIST: But, I guess it's sort of an article of faith of this sort of therapy that you can't really and not just of faith (inaudible at 00:25:31) but you can't know ahead of time.
CLIENT: So there's an annual gamefly (ph) competition hosted by a website I raid that I used to freelance for the... until, you know, I got a real job and the price to effort ratio for what they were paying me stopped being worth it.
THERAPIST: Yeah. [00:25:57]
CLIENT: But I'm one of the judges of the competition I was playing a competition entry and it was just immensely frustrating because unlike most games in this genre which are mostly mouse driven this one was, you entered commands on the keyboard. So you use your arrow keys to move the little guy around instead of, you know, clicking on, you know, a picture of a sword to fight the monster, you typed "fight" into the keyboard. Except not fight because they have a made up language but whatever, you typed the word for fight in this made up language. And it was very frustrating because there was no visual for what you were typing so if you typoed you didn't know that until you got to the end of the sentence. And, "Oh your guy didn't cast a spell and got killed by the monster."
THERAPIST: Like it didn't (inaudible at 00:26:49) even?
CLIENT: Yeah. There was no (inaudible at 00:26:49) on the screen.
THERAPIST: Oh.
CLIENT: And also the game didn't capture backspace key presses so if I'm typing and realized I typed something wrong and hit backspace that would go to the browser which would hit the browser back button so after load the game but the made-up language was actually strings of random letters for each word in the magic fighting language. So each time you reload the game fight is no longer spelled KDW. It's now spelled QZFYR. I don't know. Whatever. But it all gets reset. So you have to learn a whole new set of vocabulary. And it was very frustrating and I typed, you know, a one paragraph review and posted it and like immediately a bunch of commenters jumped on my case with you know, "You don't understand this game totally like breaks the conventions of the genre and it's so much less boring than other games in this genre." I was like, "Yeah but it's kind of getting freaking (inaudible at 00:27:53) as well as frustrating. (PAUSE) [00:27:59]
Yeah so during that pause in conversation a few minutes ago that's what my brain wandered to.
THERAPIST: Mm hmm. Well I think it's a bit of relief when it feels like somebody else's fuck up.
(LAUGHTER)
CLIENT: Not my fault. Yeah.
THERAPIST: Yeah.
CLIENT: Yeah. There's been a lot of stuff at work this week...
THERAPIST: Uh huh?
CLIENT: ...that has been frustrating and legitimately not my fault.
THERAPIST: Yeah.
CLIENT: Things like, my mentor was out on vacation last Friday so he asked me to cover some tasks he was running.
THERAPIST: I think I remember this. Yeah.
CLIENT: And I felt bad because I forgot to check in on it Thursday night. So I got in on Friday and was debugging and e-mailing back and forth with these guys. And so Monday was a holiday obviously. So Tuesday I got in and so my mentor Brian was testing the route level module work flow but in the process of running his RLM his tests on Friday I tripped over a couple of bugs on the second level modules level. So SLM space is completely different set of tools from the RLM space. [00:29:05]
THERAPIST: Okay.
CLIENT: RLMs are built from the fill ins.
THERAPIST: Okay, like SLMs are the building blocks for RLMs.
CLIENT: Yep. SLMs are the building blocks for FLMs or first level modules.
THERAPIST: Oh Okay.
CLIENT: And second level modules which make route level. I don't know why they didn't call them third level but whatever.
THERAPIST: Okay.
CLIENT: So Tuesday, there was just this slew of e-mails from apparently some of the CAD (ph) guys had come to work on Labor Day I don't know why but. And they needed a tester to test some changes that they pushed out. So I e-mailed my boss and I was like, "Hey boss, just so you know. They guys in CAD want me to test this for them. I probably have the time because the other two tasks are close to being done and they aren't due until mid October. So you know. This is outside of the scope of what you asked me to do Friday. I just wanted to make sure it's okay." He was like, "Sure go ahead. Like, they need testers, you've got time."
THERAPIST: Yep. [00:30:05]
CLIENT: "Plus it would also be a great learning experience for you." So I was like, "Okay." I've got my boss's permission for this scope (inaudible) and started testing and it's just, being a tester is just really really frustrating because things break and there's nothing you can do about it. Like, you type a command and you get a fault and like 9 thousands lines of garbage dumped to you terminal window. You're just like, "What the fuck just happened?"
THERAPIST: Right.
CLIENT: And on top of that the CAD (ph) guys don't seem to understand. Like, one of the comments that was submitted to the bug tracker this morning was, "Why are you even using this tool? I don't understand." And I was like, "Thought this tool like deprecated two years ago?" To which I was like, "No this is the primary tool we use for building our modules. It is in fact, the only way that we can do tasks X, Y, and Z."
THERAPIST: Right. Right. [00:31:01]
CLIENT: And it's just like, the lack of knowledge or intergroup communication is just...
THERAPIST: Very frustrating.
CLIENT: Yeah. So there's been that. Like, which, you know, when problems happen they're legitimately not my fault all I can do is like write up a bug report and submit it.
THERAPIST: Uh huh.
CLIENT: ...wait until someone calls me and says, "Well try this and let's see how that works." But the other two things I've been working on, I have two modules that are assigned to me that I have to get ready for take out in November. And I don't know what I'm doing and the steps are not properly documented and when I ask my mentor, you know when I sat down with him yesterday and was like, "I'm so confused. I don't understand. There are these like 8 parameters. What should I set them as?" [00:31:57]
And he was like, "Oh well this parameter should be set as spool (ph) this parameter should be set as (inaudible) and the others don't matter." And I'm like, "But. Okay, they don't matter but can you just give me a default setting for them. Like, because I have to list them in my configuration file before I can click enter on this piece of software."
THERAPIST: Mm hmm.
CLIENT: Like, should they be zeroes or ones. He's like, "Oh it doesn't matter." I was like... Maybe I could just randomly or arbitrarily assign them all to zero or assign them all to one.
THERAPIST: Mm hmm. Right.
CLIENT: But... And I felt bad yesterday talking to him, like after that conversation we talked about another issue I was having. He was like, "Oh you needed to do a P4 check in two months ago. I was like, because I've told him, "I've seen this behavior and I thought I already did steps you know, ABC." And he was like, "You did. I saw you do it. I stood over your shoulder while you did it." And I was like, "But I don't understand why my... If I did this stuff then I shouldn't be seeing this behavior." And he was like, "Well, did you check it in?" And I was like, "Well, I checkpointed it." And he was like, "Well, a checkpoint isn't the same as checking it." [00:33:01]
I was like... But the checkpoint set does a P4 submit as part of the whole like...
THERAPIST: I see.
CLIENT: When you run the checkpoint script it does like ten different things and one of those was the check-in.
THERAPIST: It's totally unclear why he's saying it.
CLIENT: Right. He's saying, "Well the checkpoint only checks in some files and not all of them. You have to know which files get checked in and then manually check in the others."
(LAUGHTER)
CLIENT: You never told me that! It's not documented anywhere!
THERAPIST: Right.
CLIENT: And he was like, "Well, I told you needed to check in your tunables directory." And I was like, "The tunables directory! There's four of them!"
THERAPIST: Uh huh.
CLIENT: "...one of which is in the checkpoint directory that gets checked in!"
THERAPIST: Right.
CLIENT: "I thought you meant just to like..."
THERAPIST: Right.
CLIENT: "...make sure I have them flagged as edited before I ran the checkpoint.
THERAPIST: Well like at least to you the clearly intuitive way this would work is if a checkpoint actually led to checking it.
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: Yeah. [00:33:55]
CLIENT: Yeah. So I'm just, I'm very frustrated.
THERAPIST: Yeah.
CLIENT: It seems that every answer to a question I get just spawns two more questions and it's immensely frustrating and... As I've discussed before, I don't like not knowing what I'm doing.
THERAPIST: Yes.
CLIENT: It really makes me uncomfortable. (LAUGHTER)
THERAPIST: Uh huh. (PAUSE) Do you also feel as though the people around have like no consideration for where you're coming from? In other words, like when your boss explains this stuff to you now, it's as though it's like kind of neglectful in failing to realize these things you couldn't have known them before. [00:35:17]
CLIENT: I mean some of it's that definitely. And some things, like, you know, there are four different tunables directory and only one gets checked in, you need to manually check the other three. Like I think he definitely should have told me about. The other things are just a function of institutionally the higher ups don't provide enough funding and support for the support organizations within our companies.
THERAPIST: Mm hmm.
CLIENT: Like, the CAD team, the IT team, and the documentation team, don't have enough employees and the employees they do have aren't getting paid enough.
THERAPIST: Mm hmm.
CLIENT: And they don't have adequate supervision or accountability so the documentation and the CAD tools and IT are complete crap.
THERAPIST: I see. [00:35:59]
CLIENT: I mean like today I was working from home and it was being really slow so I tried to send to Outlook to connect to our exchange server which don't get me started on our exchange and how shitty it is but you know, I submitted my IT support ticket saying, "You know, I looked at this web page that included link to the IT, how to setup your e-mail and tried to follow directions and they didn't work because they presume that you already have Outlook set up and you're converting from using Outlook on your BPN (ph) to using Outlook on your secure html. That's not my situation. I'm trying to set up Outlook from scratch. What's the name of the exchange server that I put in my Outlook?"
THERAPIST: Yep.
CLIENT: And their reply to that was, "Please follow the instructions at this page." And they linked to the page that I had said didn't help me. And so I replied and said, "That didn't help me. As I said I looked at that page, the instructions didn't work for me because reasons..." To which they closed the bug and asked me to fill out a, you know, quality assurance, you know, "How helpful was your experience with IT today?" survey. To which I said, "Guys, reopen this bug because this is not, it's not helping me." [00:37:11]
THERAPIST: Right.
CLIENT: To which they said, "Oh but you're on a home computer so we can't help you." And then they closed the bug. I was like, "I just needed you to tell me the name of the fucking server."
THERAPIST: Right.
CLIENT: "You spent so much more time dicking around...
THERAPIST: Yep.
CLIENT: (inaudible at 00:37:31) and wasted my time. And the reason why our support organizations aren't funded is because of this stupid idea that an engineering guy is worth way way more than anyone else's time so honestly, most of our engineers are overpaid. Most of our support staff are underpaid. (inaudible at 00:37:54) But like, that just wasted two hours of engineering time.
THERAPIST: (inaudible at 00:37:55)
CLIENT: Right? So, so that's that's also part of why I'm having so much trouble learning the system, because their tools are crap. They're not documented properly. Half the documentation is out of date or just wrong. But, you know, even given all of that, like it's not okay for me to go and like, spend an hour you know talking about gooey (ph) design on Twitter instead of you know, at least trying to do my job.
THERAPIST: Mm hmm.
CLIENT: Not least because it's a waste of time and I'm not getting paid for being on Twitter but also, you know, if my boss is walking past my cubicle and sees me on Twitter...
THERAPIST: Right.
CLIENT: ...he's going to think poorly of me and... (PAUSE) [00:38:59]
And I don't know how I get myself to just...
THERAPIST: Do you do that sometimes in response like is that partly a way to distract yourself and calm yourself down not just shut down yourself but feeling really frustrated when things like this happen that you're describing?
CLIENT: I think when they're happening I mostly get angry at myself for not being able to figure it out.
THERAPIST: I see.
CLIENT: Like it's only when I'm talking about things after the fact once I'm well away from the situation that I'm able to say, "Okay, systemically like this is a systems problem here. There are like lots of moving parts that are interacting and it's not my fault that the CAD can't document their shit. Or this tool we're using is actually like held together with string and spit."
THERAPIST: Right. [00:39:55]
CLIENT: Whatever the problem is. But when I'm actually, you know, sitting at my desk trying to get something done, it's, it's all kind of the internal monologue is all, "Why can't you figure this out? You're a fucking engineer with a degree from Harvard and you can't figure this out. You are so stupid. What the fuck is wrong with you Constance." It's just...
THERAPIST: Yeah. Sound like someone we know. Sounds like just like (inaudible at 00:40:28) your dad kind of stuff.
CLIENT: Yep. I don't think my dad would ever use the phrase what the fuck is wrong with you. (PAUSE) But certainly the sentiment is the same.
THERAPIST: Yeah. (PAUSE) [00:41:01]
This is going to sound like a silly connection, I think. Because I can't get my head all the way around it but I'm going to throw out the part of it that I think I sort of get (inaudible).
CLIENT: Mm hmm. [00:41:53]
THERAPIST: Like, there is some way in this that you are, I don't know, like identifying with or kind of being like the technology. Like, the technology is crashing all around you and you're crashing.
CLIENT: Mm hmm.
THERAPIST: You know like, you're having (inaudible) overflow since like (inaudible). You know, failures to kind of get the information you need about what's going on.
CLIENT: Mm hmm.
THERAPIST: And... (PAUSE) [00:43:05]
Maybe part of it is you have, I think, the same fantasy, like when it's an engineering problem, you feel like you, I guess in a way (inaudible at 00:43:44) get the information you need and think your way through it and solve it.
CLIENT: Yep.
THERAPIST: Like a problem solving set kind of. I think you have the fantasy that you should be able to do the same thing for when you're upset. [00:44:01]
And I think that (PAUSE) causes you some trouble. (PAUSE) I mean, I think it involves some denial about the role of your feelings in what's going on when you're being distracted or shutting down. And the way that can make you feel the non-control which I think is probably very hard to bear. So you know, let's finish up for now.
CLIENT: Mm hmm.
THERAPIST: I hope we'll talk more tomorrow.
CLIENT: Okay.
END TRANSCRIPT
