TRANSCRIPT OF AUDIO FILE:
______________________________________________________________________________
BEGIN TRANSCRIPT:
THERAPIST: Good morning.
CLIENT: So I called my psychiatrist on Tuesday to refill my Clonazepam. She hasn't done it yet. I ran out yesterday morning. I'm freaking out here. No, really. I'm not as anxious as I thought I'd be. I'm kind of anxious but less anxious. The weekend. Normally I'm not anxious about the weekend, but I'm anxious about this weekend. 
THERAPIST: Give me one sec. I think the person who just came in got her appointment time wrong. Let me just tell her that I'll see her a little later. 
CLIENT: Okay. 
THERAPIST: All right. [0:01:02]
CLIENT: That happened to me on Tuesday.
THERAPIST: Here?
CLIENT: I thought it was 8:45 but it was 9:00. But it's better that I don't miss.
THERAPIST: (inaudible at 00:01:38). So you're anxious over the weekend. 
CLIENT: Yeah, Ian is coming over tonight so that'll kind of help with tonight. He'll keep me busy at least when he's not downstairs playing with his girlfriends. We'll watch some "Family Guy". He'll want to watch "Two and a Half Men". He thinks that's always on. 
THERAPIST: Oh really? [0:02:08]
CLIENT: It'll be like 9:30 can we watch "Two and a Half Men"? And only when he has sex is really when—I don't think that show's that bad. 
THERAPIST: I haven't seen it.
CLIENT: You've never seen the show? It's a lot of sexual innuendo. 
THERAPIST: Oh I see. 
CLIENT: Yeah, he doesn't get it. It's not like "Family Guy" where it's like boom. But yeah, they do occasionally use words about sex. So a kind of interesting thing happened to me on Tuesday night. One of the players on the (inaudible at 00:03:05) a couple of his friends came out who I'm also friends with. And after is when you go to the bar after the game. After the after we decided that we were going to go and (inaudible at 00:03:23) and have another after, after. And as we were walking out of the bar Barbara was walking out and I go you want to go to (inaudible at 00:03:33)? And she's like no I'm driving. And I thought at that moment that there was awkward moment where I was like well I'm happy for her. For me it felt like it was an awkward moment. She's very conscious I think about drinking and driving. [0:03:50]
THERAPIST: Who could imagine that?
CLIENT: Well a lot of people. I know a lot of people who...
THERAPIST: I know. I'm kind of joking.
CLIENT: And last night she didn't have any beer, and I kind of made fun of her. So that was whatever and I went to the Square and had fun. But the next day on the fourth in the morning it was her turn on words with friends and she chatted did you have fun last night which I thought she (inaudible at 00:04:36). Of course I screwed it all up by making myself look like a fool saying I had too much fun and I told the truth. I walked my bike home. But as stupid as I was right before I got—I'd been walking for a while and I had this bike and I realized I didn't put my helmet on because it was still in my bag when I woke up the next day or yesterday when I (inaudible at 00:05:06). So I think... I don't know. It could've been completely innocuous like oh did you have fun last night or whatever. But I took it as maybe she thought I was personally inviting her to go out to a bar or whatever that there was something more than that. So at least for a day or so I felt good about that. I had a nice (inaudible at 00:05:46). [0:05:47]
I just feel if I don't have anything planned for the weekend, which is most weekends, I just feel sad when I think about it. I know Ian is coming over tonight and at some point I'll spend some time with the kids. I don't know. I see parents on the toes with their kids and going home to their kids. And part of me is upset that I'm not there all the time, but another part of me is like thank God I'm not there all the time. I don't know. Like I should be able to tolerate my kids, but I really can't more than a couple of hours. Like there will be some points like if Ian were to come over tonight and I had to entertain him from 4:00 until 9:00 I'd go crazy. But the fact that he goes and plays... [0:07:13]
THERAPIST: Well what does entertain mean? In other words, does that mean you and he playing continuously from 4:00 till 9:00 or does that mean you play for a while, he watches a show while you do something else, you take him to dinner you know what I mean? 
CLIENT: I don't know. I'm not taking him to dinner tonight. I'm broke. But yeah, just making sure he's busy. He asks a lot of questions and I think he knows what the word moratorium means because I tell him five minute moratorium on questions. And he just kind of drives me crazy. But I don't see Lucille. I don't see her growing. I barely see her at all. [0:08:10]
THERAPIST: My impression is that, at least from the way that you described with Ian from what you said before, that your life's may be a bigger than exaggerated version of what people usually feel which is we love our kids but it's hard to take them on for a long period of time. And the questions do get annoying, and asking for things can we do this and this, I want you to do that, and let's play this. 
CLIENT: Yeah but it's not like he wants to go throw the Frisbee, or kick the soccer ball, or throw a baseball. He doesn't want to do that kind of stuff. He wants to do that stuff when we're not doing it. And then when it comes to the point oh let's go to the park and kick the soccer ball it's no, I'd rather do this. Well can I go to the playground and just sit there? I don't know how to play with the kids at the playground. I just want to play with my phone while he goes and plays on the elements. But I know at some point I'm going to go over there for two or three hours and just be bored out of my mind. [0:09:32]
THERAPIST: Can you take a break at that point but on a show for half an hour, surf the Internet or something?
CLIENT: Well no because Jess will have to be there because I would be visiting him and Lucille. With him no...
THERAPIST: Sorry. Oh you're going there?
CLIENT: Well yeah either tomorrow or Sunday.
THERAPIST: Oh okay. 
CLIENT: I don't know. I feel like I've got just some work stuff going and I just want to blow it all off until Monday which is no big deal if I do. It's not like anything has to be done today. But my computer's up at the office and it's a waste of gas to drive up there. I don't even know why I left everything up there. I'm blowing money on gas. But I don't have any money really. Well I guess I do have some money. I did get some bills out. Right now I'm just... (pause). I'm anxious and I don't know why. So I wonder if my psychiatrist is on vacation because she would need to see my file before she would order something like that. [0:11:18]
THERAPIST: It's weird if you're on vacation that it didn't say so in her greeting.
CLIENT: I mean she's always a little show with things.
THERAPIST: I'd call her again. Tell her you ran out yesterday. 
CLIENT: I don't know. This whole thing with Barbara's driving me crazy. We were talking about briefly—starting to talk about before when I said something. She was up late and didn't get home till midnight. I said something about well you should've slept while you drove home or something like that, and she kind of came back kind of sharp with I didn't drive. [0:12:38]
(Pause) So it's like I go back and forth. (Pause) Does she dig me, does she not dig me? (Pause) Am I too old? Did she figure out that I have kids? Does she really know my situation? It's not like I'd want to bring it up. She knows I have kids. I don't know. You're not being very helpful. [0:13:30]
THERAPIST: Because I don't know whether she digs you or not?
CLIENT: No, but you're not helping me work my way around the situation. See on TV the therapist would give some piece of advice or something like that. Not that it would be good advice but it work well with the plot of the show. (Pause) 
(inaudible at 00:14:23) say I'm sorry. 
THERAPIST: To fill your prescription? [0:14:30]
CLIENT: Yeah. It would be rude if this was you, I guess, but is this rude for me to do? 
THERAPIST: Go ahead.
CLIENT: I mean it does have to do with my therapy. But it does make me have stuff (inaudible at 00:14:49). 
THERAPIST: Right.
CLIENT: So maybe she called it in yesterday and I didn't know. 
THERAPIST: I think with Barbara you... It's tough. I think you're kind of—because you're feeling lonely and because other things are stressful you lean on her. You lean on fantasies about the two of you in a way that's way ahead of the game. I mean you're ahead of where the two of are actually at in real life. [0:15:40]
CLIENT: That's what bothers me. 
THERAPIST: So I think that's what makes it difficult to actually move things forward in reality is because you kind of know that you have sort of more invested in it than makes sense given how you really interact or where things are really at. So I think in that way it's sort of related to your being lonely and under a lot of stress in other parts of your life. (Pause) So I think that's a lot of what it makes it difficult to act is you're worrying about being ahead of where things are and you're also wanting to preserve it as a fantasy which is at risk if you ask her out. [0:16:51]
CLIENT: Well it's not like I want to preserve the fantasy. I'm just worried about rejection. I guess maybe that is a—I'd rather have the fantasy than the rejection. 
THERAPIST: Sure. And if there were two or three people you're interested in, you have been dating recently... In other words if things weren't so stressful in other parts of your life it would be, I think, a little more of an easy come easy go feel about her where you could ask her out and it wouldn't be as big a deal. You wouldn't have (inaudible at 00:17:25).
CLIENT: If I had other options. [0:17:27]
THERAPIST: Yeah other options or less stress elsewhere I think when you felt less lonely or less like it would really matter to be involved with somebody and have them care about you that way. (Pause)
CLIENT: I'm not angry today. I really haven't been angry the past few days. Ever since I got (inaudible at 00:19:05).
THERAPIST: The what? [0:19:08]
CLIENT: (inaudible at 00:19:12) whatever it was. I don't know. Probably because I just haven't had an excessive interaction with Jess. That's probably part of it. (Pause) It's been kind of nobody's really working this week. 
THERAPIST: (inaudible at 00:19:39).
CLIENT: Yeah. (Pause) 
THERAPIST: So what do you imagine it would be like if you actually went out with Barbara? [0:20:13]
CLIENT: (Pause) I don't know. You know like two people going out. We'd go to dinner, play catch. I mean I know (inaudible at 00:20:35). I don't know. I wouldn't want to dump on her all my problems. I'd probably have to ratchet back my drinking. But I figure she would be some substitute for why I drink. (pause) I don't know. I'm 42 and I haven't dated a woman in God knows how many years. Well God does know. God knows everything if there were a God if there were such things. [0:21:56]
THERAPIST: So you'd be really excited about it (laughter) is what you're trying to say I think. Giddy.
CLIENT: What was that?
THERAPIST: Giddy.
CLIENT: Yeah, giddy up. Yeah. I'd be constantly trying not to fuck it up.
THERAPIST: How would you fuck it up? 
CLIENT: I don't know. I've fucked everything else. I just figured you know... That's kind of just under the surface as well is I'd fuck it up somehow. I don't know. (Pause) I don't know. I think you're right though. If there were other options out there everything would be easier. [0:23:01]
THERAPIST: (Pause) You know I'm starting to feel as you talk about it some part of you has a hard time believing it could actually happen.
CLIENT: Oh yeah. A large part of it. (Pause) 
THERAPIST: I actually wonder if it has nothing to do with your feelings about your gut but more... My impression of (inaudible at 00:24:19) is that you never felt all that confident about being able to really—of the dating I think. [0:24:31]
CLIENT: Yeah. About most things I am. (Pause) 
THERAPIST: I wonder why that is. 
CLIENT: I don't know. I was dropped as a baby. 
THERAPIST: Maybe.
CLIENT: My mom didn't love me enough. (Pause)
THERAPIST: People always mock their therapist who's been trying to help you figure it out. 
CLIENT: Don't feel bad I mock everyone. (Laughter) It's just to cover up for my lack of confidence. [0:25:35]
THERAPIST: Would you feel bad talking about it? 
CLIENT: About what?
THERAPIST: Your lack of confidence with dating and when.
CLIENT: Would I feel bad talking about it? 
THERAPIST: Yeah. I mean in other words when you say well I do that to cover my lack of confidence it makes me think okay is it a difficult thing to talk about. Do you feel bad that you're not more confident about it? 
CLIENT: I don't know. What's to talk about? 
THERAPIST: I think because it makes you pretty anxious. I mean you're already anxious. I know you didn't have your meds yesterday morning, but yeah I think this makes you pretty anxious to talk about. [0:26:24]
(Pause) I guess I imagine it's because you worry about being really embarrassed. (Pause) Talking about how much you lack confidence at times or how difficult dating other people have been. (Pause) 
CLIENT: Yeah. 
THERAPIST: I would imagine certainly you figure I will think less of you.
CLIENT: I don't think you could think any less.
THERAPIST: Really? 
CLIENT: You've actually got people much worse off than I am. [0:27:33]
THERAPIST: But you're the one who said it.
CLIENT: Said what? I don't think you'd think any less of me. Actually I'm indifferent to what you think of me because it's your job. That's why I'm here. I don't think you judge. So when you sit around with all your little therapist friends you probably wouldn't even make fun of your patients. 
THERAPIST: How is that?
CLIENT: That's what therapists do when they all get together right? Lawyers make fun of their clients. Doctors make fun of their patients. Therapists make fun of their... (pause) You don't do that? You don't hang out with other therapists? [0:28:37]
THERAPIST: So about this business about you being embarrassed let's just talk about confidence with dating and relationships.
CLIENT: Yeah, what about it?
THERAPIST: You seem (pause)... I think you worry that we would start to talk about it and you'd feel like you'd just got nothing. 
CLIENT: I already feel that way. (Pause)
THERAPIST: Well then no wonder you don't want to talk about it. 
CLIENT: I feel like I don't have anything; everything's broken. My car stereo, the car, everything, my relationships (inaudible at 00:29:55) broken. [0:29:57]
THERAPIST: (Pause) Yeah so I see like looking at that just makes you feel worse. I don't think you anticipate that it will help you learn something that you might feel supported in some way or reassured about it. But rather it's just like looking at bad things and I disagree. [0:30:47]
CLIENT: Not the answer I was looking for. Why do you disagree?
THERAPIST: Because...
CLIENT: You've been trained at the finest institutions of America. 
THERAPIST: That isn't so great about me. I think when you look at a lot of this stuff, yeah, it's painful and it's upsetting, but you kind of already knew that. And I think you learn more about it. You give up more than you want (inaudible at 00:31:46) as opposed to something more black and white such as it's all just broken. I think it generally helps to look at and talk about things that are upsetting. [0:32:04]
CLIENT: That's your opinion. 
THERAPIST: Yep, it sure is.
CLIENT: That's what you were trained to do. 
THERAPIST: Yes it is. 
CLIENT: I wouldn't know where to begin. Maybe start with the speakers on my car how they don't work. 
THERAPIST: Sure.
CLIENT: The speakers in my car don't work. Sometimes they work but most not...
THERAPIST: But I'm getting that the speakers in your car don't work. 
CLIENT: Yeah. So I had a little speaker...
THERAPIST: Like for your phone?
CLIENT: For my phone which the valet stole.
THERAPIST: That's really lame.
CLIENT: Along with a new charger for my phone which I thought were weird things to take. 
THERAPIST: Yep.
CLIENT: And either that or I've put them somewhere and I don't know where they are. I don't know. They disappeared when my mom came to town. When she left they were gone. So I use my headphones when I drive or sometimes I just drive in silence. [0:33:29]
THERAPIST: I would imagine it is difficult in two ways. One of which is it sucks not being able to listen to music in your car, or radio, or whatever else and the other of which is reminder of how much in your life feels broken. 
CLIENT: I don't have the money to fix it. As inexpensive in reality it is to buy four speakers and have them installed there's other stuff that I should be spending that money on. And I don't know. I'm just getting tired of being broke. And I'm stupid because I keep going out with the team spending money I don't have (pause) you know $20.00, $30.00. [0:34:47]
THERAPIST: That was the thing I always thought for you is I have the sense that you enjoy it.
CLIENT: Sometimes yeah. 
THERAPIST: And it's worth something if it makes you feel better. I'm not saying always go out always spend the money, but you tend to focus on that one side of it like you're making a bad decision in going out and spending money. The other side of it is it makes you feel good which I think really makes a difference in terms of how much you can work, in terms of dealing with stress. You feel better about life. [0:35:51]
CLIENT: (Pause) It's funny but I used to think that it was sometimes like a chore. I didn't want to go. (Pause) That's one of the things I think before I turn on the game. Well where we going? (Pause) [0:36:55] 
THERAPIST: (inaudible at 00:39:12)
CLIENT: I'm so sore. (inaudible at 00:39:39). 
END TRANSCRIPT
