TRANSCRIPT OF AUDIO FILE:
______________________________________________________________________________
BEGIN TRANSCRIPT:
THERAPIST: Before we start, there are things that would...
CLIENT: That's where I'm starting.
THERAPIST: Oh okay.
CLIENT: So (PAUSE) my next check comes in on the tenth and I pretty much wired it. I hope so that all of it can go to you. That's about 1500 or so are outstanding balances, 24 of them (inaudible at 00:00:54]
THERAPIST: Okay. [00:00:55]
CLIENT: I have to resolve this thing with Phil and until I do, it's going to be difficult for me to submit invoices on our subcontract. So, pending that resolution, it's, it's going to be hard for me to, to, to, to, to give you more than that. You know, if, if we need to interrupt until I'm due that's fine. I've had an idea to talk about that at least (inaudible at 00:01:33) today. That would certainly be understandable. But, you know. But I'd like to talk a little bit more about that finances just as a...
THERAPIST: Sure.
CLIENT: ...as a... It's delicate and complicated and I'm not sure how, how to talk about it in a way that, you know, does justice to the business relationship. But we'll do our best.
THERAPIST: Sure. [00:01:59]
CLIENT: So I think, I think that's what we're talking about is $1500 in probably... I can't remember when the payroll goes out but probably a week's time and... And then the balance...
THERAPIST: Right.
CLIENT: ...in the next month or so.
THERAPIST: Right.
CLIENT: So, anyway that's my...
THERAPIST: (inaudible at 00:02:25)
CLIENT: ...offer. That's what I've been doing.
THERAPIST: Okay.
CLIENT: That's what I can do. That's not what I said I would do but I'm sorry.
THERAPIST: Okay. (PAUSE) And do you have any sense of the time frame for getting the other issue resolved?
CLIENT: I'd like to talk about it in a (inaudible at 00:02:43) frame.
THERAPIST: Okay. [00:02:57]
CLIENT: But it needs to be soon on a number of different levels. So, you know, in terms of the balance, it will definitely be within the month. I mean, since that I need to do this one for any number of different reasons. You know, I'm totally, totally screwing myself. And there are lots of bills that I can't pay. And I think there were some bills that perhaps I could've paid that I didn't pay because I was trying to squeeze as much as I could out of to try and get your balance. So I have a fear about a lot of this stuff. With you, with Phil, with (inaudible at 00:03:37), those are the interactions that I think (inaudible) that are kind of most present at the moment anyway. [00:04:05]
My fear is that (PAUSE) is that I'm orchestrating some of this. You know, it's kind of psychodramatic that I'm, you know, I'm kind of testing, testing relationships. I'm worried about being left. That was why. I'm worried about being left and there's this kind of automatic reflexive effort to test it by being, I guess at the end of the day untrustworthy or being, you know, not, not compliant. And this is the, this is the model that we rejected last week which is funny. [00:05:09]
THERAPIST: Right. What I just mean is I follow what you're saying.
CLIENT: You follow what I'm saying? (PAUSE) If that's the model, then I've set it up incredibly well because all of these provocative acts (PAUSE) are really tied up in the same issue which is (PAUSE) performance on my, on this consulting contract, on the one hand and I'm beating around... [00:06:15]
I'm not, I'm not being very clear. I can feel it. (PAUSE) Let me back up a little bit. I feel like this whole episode that was provoked Phil (ph) saying that he was leaving. (PAUSE) I was fine until then. And when he said that, something was triggered. [00:07:05]
And my fear is that this, you know, sense of disruption that I'm feeling is the automatic behavior itself rather than (PAUSE) you know, there's a sense of authenticity (ph), there a sense of, you know, what's disrupting my sleep so profoundly that (inaudible) can't sleep. We're talking about, you know, setting her up in the bedroom during the week because she can't sleep because I'm crying out and when she touches me, I cry out, you know, and shy away and, you know, I swear and I do this and I do that and I toss and turn and, you know, as if I'm in terror or fear again and again and again during the course of the night every two hours. [00:08:07]
You know, and at work I'm constantly just acutely aware of the fact that other people are passing by and that I'm not able to work and waiting for them to, you know, point out that I'm not working. So attuned to that risk that I'm not working. (PAUSE) But why am I not working? You know, is it because I'm disrupted or am I disrupted because something else is going on? [00:08:59]
In other words, is or at what, you know, level of calculation is the not working? At what, you know, how, how sophisticated of a response is it? Is it just a by product of a fight or flight response or is it everything? Or is it both? (PAUSE) And my fear is that it's more calculated than that. It's specifically not working as opposed to not being able to do anything. 
THERAPIST: Right.
CLIENT: Specifically not working.
THERAPIST: Right.
CLIENT: And as an outcome of not working, I can't pay you. As an outcome of not working, you know, I am not pushing our project forward. As an outcome of not working I'm not, you know, contributing what I should be to our household fiscally. [00:10:01]
As an outcome of not working, (inaudible at 00:10:07) in my household fiscally and, you know, she has, she had a very long relationship with somebody who, as she describes it, you know, just (PAUSE) just kind of gave up. He was European. He didn't have a work permit but he had the opportunity to get a work permit and he didn't go after it. And I feel as if there's this impulse in me which is preventing me from applying for jobs, you know, that I could get, from, you know, earning the money that I could earn, et cetera, directly in opposition to this, that there is some, you know, there is some oppositional defiant character to my comprehensive difficulty pursuing these career options. [00:11:05]
That model's plausible too, I'm realizing. I fear it. For some reason, it's far more scary to me than the alternative which is just that I'm disturbed at some fundamental level. (PAUSE) You know, the one model I think is about attachment and one model is about trauma and they're not mutually exclusive. [00:11:59]
Some kind of trauma, some kind of dissociation is primary in one model and the defiance is primary in the other model. I don't know what to make of it. I don't know how to get my head around it. I don't know how to respond to it. And I feel... I'm suddenly frightened by the possibility that I'm actually doing this. Which is funny because of course I'm doing it in either case. So... (PAUSE) It feels, I mean it feels fucked up in this context, in the context of our interaction because it feels as if I've set it up so until I'm...
THERAPIST: (LAUGHTER)
CLIENT: ...healed, you don't get paid, which isn't quite right. [00:13:07]
THERAPIST: (LAUGHTER)
CLIENT: I mean in some sense, I did orchestrate this whole thing. You would have been paid in June otherwise.
(PAUSE)
THERAPIST: I guess one thing I'm finding striking at the moment is... (PAUSE) [00:14:07]
...is this shift in your point of view from being dead set against the possibility that you orchestrated things to seriously considering it as, at least part of what's going on. And right on the heels of our developing and I think my agreeing to look into anyway a very different way of thinking about it. [00:15:05]
(PAUSE)
(inaudible at 00:15:35) I'm not sure what to make of that ? concluding something about it. But as you said, you sort of felt for years like you've been fighting against shrinks and other people saying this. And now when your current shrink has said, "Okay. Alright fine. But then let's look at this other thing and no we understand a few things about what's going on. [00:16:01]
CLIENT: I think honestly you've said this. You meant it.
THERAPIST: Yeah.
CLIENT: It wasn't a gambit (ph).
THERAPIST: No, no, no! (LAUGHTER) I wish I was that good. No. It wasn't a gambit (ph). I did. Yeah, so I...
CLIENT: It's horrifying. It's a horrifying thought. Both because it would mean that everybody was right... (LAUGHTER)
THERAPIST: (LAUGHTER) That would be terrible.
CLIENT: ...and, and for some other reason that I can't quite put my finger on, why is it more horrible? It just... Have you heard of Kip Litton (ph), the Kip Litton (ph) scandal? Do you know about this?
THERAPIST: No.
CLIENT: He's a dentist from Michigan who claimed to have run all these sub three marathons.
THERAPIST: Okay. [00:17:00]
CLIENT: Like in every state. And somebody got suspicious because they never saw him with the, you know, with the lead pack ever. Like nobody in the lead pack had ever seen him. And so someone started looking very systematically at the race photographs and discovered that they would only see him at the beginning of the race and at the end of the race. And, you know, he had missed all of these timing rounds and so on and so forth. And, you know, so gradually the whole thing unraveled. You know, all these marathons that he had claimed and posted on some website, on his website, you know, turned out... (inaudible at 00:17:47) been able, you know, since this came out in July to figure out exactly how he did it but he clearly had done it. And so, but there's this huge e-mail trail for him.
THERAPIST: What is it that they never figured out how he...
CLIENT: How he cheated.
THERAPIST: Oh okay.
CLIENT: How he arrived at the finish line as it...
THERAPIST: Oh I see.
CLIENT: ...he had run a marathon in two hours and forty minutes or something...
THERAPIST: Right. Right.
CLIENT: ...when in fact, you know, he had never been seen during the course of the race and would always change. You know, anyway so he had a clear MO. He made up marathons that he won, you know, that didn't exist, et cetera. So anyway, there were these e-mail interactions with him and like he wasn't mean. But he was just so clearly mendacious. And it's upsetting to see that kind of behavior. It's like, it's clearly there's some kind of pathology there, like a huge very dramatic pathology. And, you know, you see that behavior in a person and you shy away. You feel... And I feel like I'm exhibiting some kind of behavior of that sort, something that's not violent but there's something, there's something mendacious about it, there's something strange and upsetting about it. [00:19:01]
It's horrifying that somebody would use their conscious mind in such a (PAUSE) I don't know. (PAUSE) I don't, I can't put my finger yet on what is upsetting about this possibility. But it really upsets me.
THERAPIST: Yeah.
(PAUSE) [00:19:59]
I, I do imagine that you projected some of this sort of (PAUSE) sense of being blamed and... (PAUSE) [00:21:01]
...very, you know, seemed very pathologically or is very much wrong in some way into let's say, me, when I said I thought this might be going, which I imagine is part of (PAUSE) what led you to object so strenuously. [00:21:47]
In other words, I guess what I'm really, the point I'm really trying to make is given how bad you're feeling about this (PAUSE) I imagine some of the judgment that you're having and even though it's sort of not clear why or how that comes about, you imagine was (inaudible) where I was coming from or and I know you (inaudible) judgmental of you but I think that's how you had seen it but I wonder if there was some sense of being, you know, condemned something really awful that you're now contemplating but...
CLIENT: Well (PAUSE) I mean what it would mean is that I was, you know, rather than proceeding with our interaction in good faith, I was, in a way that was very not upfront, in a way that was very kind of involved some subterfuge, testing our relationship and that I do this with everybody all the time. [00:23:01]
That I always say that I'm committed to something and straightforward about something and, you know, but in fact I'm not. I'm testing it. I'm being deceptive. It implies a deception.
THERAPIST: I see. (PAUSE) So you're sort of, let's say orchestrating the stuff with the money to kind of... Or you're disagreeing with things that I say to kind of see whether that's going to make me walk away or whether I'm going to stick with it or with you?
CLIENT: I don't know. I don't know if it holds together. But that's my fear, I guess.
THERAPIST: I see.
(PAUSE) [00:24:00]
CLIENT: With the money it's clearer than with the, the dialect (ph I think of these two analyses. (PAUSE) I don't know. I don't know. (inaudible at 00:24:51) and I'm uncertain about it and I don't know whether it matters. But I do have this sense that we have to have some way of explaining what I'm doing and am I doing it even if I'm not trying to. I'm not... (PAUSE) You know, there's genuine fear...
THERAPIST: Yeah. [00:24:59]
CLIENT: ...of being left.
THERAPIST: I know.
CLIENT: It's pretty strong. It's strong enough to wake me up every two hours. It's clearly what it is, I think. Something's waking me up every two hours. Although the truth is I don't know. You know? I think I've always been waking up every two hours or at least calling out and engaging in this behavior that seems very trauma (PAUSE) traumatized (PAUSE) seems hurt. I don't know. I don't know how to describe it. When someone touches you in the night and you call out in fear, I mean, what does that mean? (PAUSE) [00:26:01]
I mean we just have to make a choice and go with it on... Would it mean anything different for our interaction and strategy? I'm sure that it would.
THERAPIST: Sure. It matters whether something feels (inaudible) or not. [00:26:57]
CLIENT: Yeah that's true. I don't know.
THERAPIST: Um...
(PAUSE)
CLIENT: I... Finish your thought. Finish your thought.
THERAPIST: Maybe (PAUSE) you know, maybe both these views are right and maybe part of what's going on is that... (PAUSE) [00:28:00]
If you are like unconsciously being more manipulative than (PAUSE) than you have wanted to acknowledge, maybe it's also in the context of feeling more in danger than has been easy to acknowledge either. You know, if you're so scared when somebody touches you at night, which, you know, in a way (PAUSE) strikes me as a possible analog for, you know, being in therapy and having somebody (LAUGHTER) interpret things to you about what you don't know you're thinking and doing. (PAUSE) You know, maybe you've been in what felt like a much more sort of dangerous world than we've been clear on and that sort of leads you to shift into a kind of, let's say guerilla warfare mode (PAUSE) that involves, you know, kind of sort of shut down of your usual faculties but also the sort of covert actions. [00:30:01]
CLIENT: You know it is a shutdown of my usual faculties. There's no question about that.
THERAPIST: Yeah.
CLIENT: You know, however it's triggered, whether, you know, by some totally automatic process or by some unconscious calculation, there is a shutdown of my faculties. I cannot work...
THERAPIST: Yeah.
CLIENT: ...in that state. I cannot think about the future in that state. I, you know, it's a very consistent stereotype dissociative state.
THERAPIST: Yeah (inaudible at 00:30:38)
CLIENT: There's no no question about it.
THERAPIST: ...most dramatic example. I mean, I feel like last week, and you know, because it became clear last week I (inaudible) other times. I've actually seen it directly in here as well. I've certainly heard you refer to it occurring often at work but it also occurs in here when you forget, you know, as profoundly as you do, what happened in a previous session or sort of a place in our interaction or dynamic that we've been a dozen times or where things I'm saying or that felt like we had a fairly solid shared understanding of go out the window. [00:31:26]
I mean, those are ways I see it operating kind of right in front of my eyes in here so I have an idea what you're referring to.
CLIENT: And it's true that this state is incompatible with, you know, kind of high level cognitive functioning or analysis or however you want to describe it. There's some, something... Now I have it. Now I can put things together and synthesize information and, you know, come up with a model, et cetera. But in that state, I do not have access to that. There's no question about that. [00:32:05]
So I guess, you know, I guess we can look at this as a further evolution (inaudible) (LAUGHTER) I had, I had my father's copy of Hegel's Philosophy of History. (LAUGHTER)
THERAPIST: (LAUGHTER)
CLIENT: (inaudible at 00:32:39) backed my on it. Anyway. I mean, I guess, I guess this is a hopeful development in the sort of analytical model in a sense that it suggests that the intervention actually begins with some kind of semi conscious act. That I'm actually deploying this state, that I'm in some sense causing it by some psychodynamic process rather than some sort of (inaudible at 00:33:07) part of myself that is unable to intervene. [00:33:11]
And I think you'd be more comfortable with that. I mean (inaudible) said to me that other day, "You're really in a bad way. You know, can you think about that medication?" But the truth is, you know, if this further elaboration of the model is true then that wouldn't be very useful. Or I don't know.
THERAPIST: It's possible it would. It wouldn't, I guess I'd put it like this, it wouldn't untie the knot.
CLIENT: Wouldn't untie the knot.
THERAPIST: ...but it might like (inaudible at 00:33:50)
CLIENT: But it might solve the immediate problem which is sleeping, waking up every two hours and being in this very primitive state. [00:34:01]
THERAPIST: Right. Yeah it might settle the symptoms a little bit but it, or I mean more than a little bit but it yeah, it wouldn't kind of (inaudible).
CLIENT: Fuck.
THERAPIST: Yeah. If you want another alternative that we could consider (PAUSE) I think I have something to do.
CLIENT: We can't even think about more psychotherapy until...
THERAPIST: No.
CLIENT: ...until I figure out the financial question, I think.
THERAPIST: What?
CLIENT: Well because more psychotherapy costs more money.
THERAPIST: I don't think so. I mean, it doesn't cost you anything now does it?
(PAUSE)
CLIENT: What were you going to say? [00:34:57]
THERAPIST: That's what I was going to say. I, yeah, if you were having 30 or 40 dollar copays to pay or something like that, I wouldn't suggest it because of the financial situation.
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: But in that, with the recording, you're not...
CLIENT: It doesn't take care of all of the copay.
THERAPIST: Yeah.
CLIENT: Alright. What's the situation?
THERAPIST: I have a suggestion that you consider analysis.
CLIENT: An analysis. (PAUSE) On that couch?
THERAPIST: Yeah.
CLIENT: (LAUGHTER) What does it do?
THERAPIST: The couch?
CLIENT: Yeah. It's kind of (inaudible). (LAUGHTER)
THERAPIST: Yeah. (LAUGHTER) The difference is usually four sessions a week and it's using the couch and...
CLIENT: I see.
THERAPIST: Sorry? [00:36:01]
CLIENT: I see.
THERAPIST: And (PAUSE) it. One analogy I use that it can be more like learning a language by visiting a foreign country rather than sort of learning in a class. I mean (inaudible) a bit. But, you know, it can be easy, you're more immersed in the issues and talking about them and it can make it easier to kind of get one hand into what's going on. I mean, you're in the thick of it anyway really.
CLIENT: I am.
THERAPIST: Um.
CLIENT: It wouldn't really be different from what we're doing now or would it?
THERAPIST: No, not really. I mean, I don't sort of talk about things or do things any different than I've been and you know we'll keep doing them this way in any case pretty. So...
CLIENT: I'm just not looking at each other.
THERAPIST: Right.
CLIENT: That's the difference.
THERAPIST: Well the frequency also is different
CLIENT: The frequency is different.
THERAPIST: That probably in general makes more of a difference than the couch. But...
CLIENT: Okay. I'll think about that too.
THERAPIST: Sure.
CLIENT: (inaudible at 00:37:19)
THERAPIST: Sure. Yeah if you have questions or other things.
CLIENT: I do have questions. Yes but I don't know. Yeah, I'm scared by this.
(PAUSE)
THERAPIST: Yeah that seems like the main thing today really. I mean, we're talking, we're sort of talking about other aspects of it and aspects, in a way are important but (PAUSE) that seems like the heart of what you're feeling at the moment is (PAUSE) being afraid about what may be going on.
(PAUSE) [00:38:00]
Well let's finish up for now.
CLIENT: Okay.
THERAPIST: And then we'll talk more on Friday.
CLIENT: Okay.
(inaudible)
END TRANSCRIPT
