<font size="4"><b>Chapter Two</b></font>
[p. <i>[41]</i>]

I stood at night at the edge of the ocean. It was black, as was the
sky; looking out, I could not see where the ocean ended and the sky
began. No stars or moon interrupted that blackness. It was unnaturally
calm. The boat was just past where the breakers would have
begun, if there had been any, and it was lit like a festival. Light
streamed from every porthole; twinkling ropes of light fell from the
mast. I had to reach it.


Then the scene changed. I was on a small raft, chasing the pleasure
ship, setting out to sea on a current that was fast and strong and
silent. I was a speck in that vastness. My chest was tight with panic.
Though I was taking big, shuddering gulps of air, I was dizzy for
oxygen. The boat was pulling away. I had just enough time to intercept
it, moving on that swift current, if I could plot the right course.
But I had no charts, no way to steer. Then the raft pitched forward.
Somehow I knew that the ocean floor had taken a steep downward
slope. Far beneath the glassy surface, the ocean floor was falling away.
The current was getting faster: The waters were going to suck me
down into some huge waterfall that somehow existed below the surface,
a silent, downward rush of current. Horrified, I waited for that
to come.


I woke up. It was 4:08 A.M.


The Beast came for his first extended visit in the spring of my
junior year in college, 1976, his arrival announced by the onset of a
peculiar sleep disturbance. I kept a digital clock beside my bed in
my dorm room at Emory University. It was an old-fashioned one
no liquid crystal display, but numbers that flipped with each changing

[p. <i>42</i>]

There was a mockingbird who lived in a tree outside my window,
which faced a busy street. The mockingbird sang all night, but
in the predawn hours he got shriller and more insistent. The cascade
of bird noises and the growing rush of traffic outside told me that
another day, another crushing load of loneliness and dreary chores,
was upon me.


Sometimes the dread sharpened into panic. The usual focus for
that was my boyfriend, Sam. We were former high school classmates
who had both ended up at Emory, a well-regarded Southern university
on a leafy suburban campus in Atlanta's well-to-do northeast.
Sam was a stern-faced young man, with a prominent jaw and a nervous
habit of reaching up with his right hand to smooth the part in
his hair. His father was a lawyer whose practice consisted mainly of
divorce cases, contract disputes, young toughs in trouble, and furtive
men working on their second or third DUI conviction. He was a nice
man, but absentminded and aloof. Sam's life centered around his two
sisters. They were vivacious, pretty, and, in my view, hopelessly man-crazy,
vying with each other to see who could find the tiniest bikini.
I wasn't fond of them, but I tried not to show it. Sam's mother, who

[p. <i>43</i>]

Sam also marked the beginning of my first tentative experiments
with sexthough, odd as it sounds, those experiments took years to
unfold. In the beginning, ours was a chaste relationship. This was
the early seventies, and though I went braless to class, scandalizing
my mother, the Sexual Revolution of the 1960s had left large pockets
of the Bible Belt virtually untouched. In Bible Belt culture, sex
was an earth-shattering notion. Within marriage, it was supposedly
a mystical union; outside of marriage, it was the first step on a one-way
road to moral ruin and depravation. Nobody ever actually told
me that sex could simply be fun; I found that out later, on my own.
I think now that part of the reason I disliked Sam's sisters so much
was that they seemed light-years ahead of me on this subject, and at
some level, this simply pissed me off. What pissed me off even more
was that they were so provocative, even around their brother, that
Sam had long ago developed the habit of keeping a tight lid on his
sexual impulsesa state of affairs which put a monkey wrench into
my own faltering attempts at seduction.


In other ways, Sam and I found considerable pleasure in each
other's company. My family was fond of him, we shared many high
school friends, we had similar intellectual interests. Altogether, the
relationship would last for the next five years. I assumed at some

[p. <i>44</i>]

But just how serious I was about that, I did not want to admit
to myself. Seriousness of purpose in career matters did not reconcile
with the image of Woman as Wife that I had grown up with. I was
attached to that image, exemplified by my mother; it seemed to
offer a kind of love and security impossible to find any other way.
Yet I suspected, with a sinking feeling that was starting to get
familiar, that this was one more area in which there was something
wrong with me. What other people found relatively easy, even
sometimes hard to avoidnamely, finding a mate during one's college
yearswas not going to be easy for me. My first intimation of
this came the night Sam and I sat out on the lawn outside the
Emory medical school, talking vaguely about the futures we imagined,
and he remarked, "Of course, my career would have to come
before my wife's." <i>Have to</i> come first? No negotiation at all? I
pressed him for some elaboration, but he found it impossible. How
could you elaborate on a point so obvious? <i>Oh, God</i>, I thought, and
dismay settled over me like an old, clammy blanket. <i>Oh, God</i>. I said
nothing.


But that spring, as I fell farther into the abyss of serious depression,
my hesitations were swept aside by my frantic need for security.
I began to feel a compulsion to nail things down between us,
to carve into stone the idea that we would marryif not next year,
then the year after, on a date certain. I began to obsess that he was
secretly in love with another girl; I panicked if I did not know his
whereabouts. On weekends, he would hole up in the library to study;

[p. <i>45</i>]

I spent an increasing amount of time alone. If I was with people,
I felt as if I were surrounded by strangers on a bus. The world seemed
to be telescoping away; I saw everything through the wrong end of a
pair of binoculars, watching tiny, animated people at the other end
engage in activities I could not fathom. I spent hours walking around
campus at all times of day, encased in a loneliness as palpable as
armor, armed with an unreasoning hostility. If anyone spoke to me, I
glared at them.


At the same time, my senses seemed to be sharpened. I experienced
my surroundingsthe wet smell of hot pavement after a
spring rain, the sound of mourning doves at dawnwith vivid and
intense sorrow, as if I were seeing it for the first and last time. Sometimes
I felt this to be true, as if I were literally dying.


With a desperation born of the sense that I was losing my mind,
I threw myself into schoolwork. Academic failurewhich I defined
as anything less than a 4.0 averagewould have destroyed my tenuous
grip on my self-esteem. But it was hard: the sound of my schoolmates'
conversation and laughter in the dorm seemed as earsplitting
as shattering china. I had little part in these conversations; I was by
then a mostly silent presence on the hall, not a part of the dorm's
social life. Glaring, aggrieved at this imposition, I would retreat to
the library across the street. But even that was too noisy. I was distracted

[p. <i>46</i>]

In the pages of my journal from that year-long episode, the
symptoms of a mood disorder were clear:


My face is wet. My hands are icyI notice these
things one at a time, gradually, like an infant. I am
cold. Inside, I am a battlefieldWaterloo after
Napoleon, Vicksburg after the siege ... Always a
war; always fighting one emotion after another.


I am so restlessno, "restless" is too weak a
word to describe the way I feel; I feel angry in a
dozen ways, all bursting out at once, yet all directed
inward. I can't sit still a moment, physically or
mentally, and my lack of concentration puts me on
edge ... Where do I get this unreasonable sense of
panic?

[p. <i>47</i>]

I can't enjoy anything.


It's as if I'm trading punches with someone
through a curtain, and the first time I knew he was
there was when he knocked me breathless ... The
worst thing is not knowing what hit you; after that,
it's not knowing what you are afraid of.


There is a deep, gnawing sadness at the core of
everything, everything, and on afternoons like this I
feel it most. I am empty inside. There is something
in the future which is coming ... I am afraid that it
will suck out my core and I will be completely
empty and anguished.


At night I go for walks and think of how much I
would like to be drunk. Completely smashed. Out of
myself ... I would like to forget I ever existed.


I have to find ways to get myself through it, people
I love who will help me ... I have to because the
alternative is simply existing, crawling in a corner to
die. Or going over the edge into madness.


My dreams were extraordinary and vivid.


Last night I was walking along Old National
Highway, picking up litter ... Suddenly I felt a pain
and held up my hand. A very neat hole opened up in
my palm, just below my third and fourth fingers.

[p. <i>48</i>]

Last night I dreamed that the world was full of
birdsbig, black birds with ugly, shiny bodies that
would not fly. They covered the ground like vermin,
they crawled up on windowsills and hung over
ledges. They covered every flat surface, barely moving,
making little sluggish noises to each other. I was
supposed to go over to Gwen's. Sam was there, with
other people. There was going to be a party. I did not
want to go out, but I did, wading through the birds,
making myself open the door to her apartment, even
though birds hung all over it.


I dreamed of being angry last night. There was a
man in my dream, an ugly little dwarf with puke-colored
hair, who had debased me in some way,
taken advantage of me. It didn't occur to me until
after it happened that I should get mad. Then I did.
I got so furious that I went back and found the little
man and I walked up to him and kicked him. I said,

[p. <i>49</i>]

I dreamed of confessing to someone, anyone, that I was getting
preoccupied with thoughts of suicide. My dreams were as detailed
and specific as real life; in one, I was visiting a psychiatrista dark,
skinny guy with lots of hair who resembled one of my French professors
and we were discussing a <i>Cosmopolitan</i> magazine article
about women who kill themselves. "What does that have to do with
you?" the "psychiatrist" asked, and in the dream I burst into tears.
"How come I can't stop thinking about it?" I sobbed.


In real life, though, confession was unthinkable. There was the
social stigma of being labeled hysterical, neurotic, out of control. In
white Southern culture, women held their emotions in check. Intensity
of feeling could get you labeled crazy, like the pathetic Blanche
DuBoiseven though the constant effort to suppress emotion gave
many Southern women that shrill, slightly hysterical tone which was
the basis of the ditsy Southern belle caricature.


My own mother lived not so much by that code, however, as by
the one she had learned in a childhood of deprivation and abandonment:
Trust no one. She kept her problems to herselfand, over the
years, I came to the conclusion that her despondent periods were fundamentally
different from my father's mercurial personality. Like me,

[p. <i>50</i>]

I was a born-again Christian, having walked down the church
aisle at the age of eleven to make my public confession and to be
immersed in the baptistry at the front of the church, a huge tank of

[p. <i>51</i>]

Encompassed in that act was the assurance that from now on,
God would help me through all problems and crises; if not, it meant
I had not really been "saved" after all. Now I began to suspect that
this was, in fact, truethat somehow God had not found me

[p. <i>52</i>]

The thing that was going wrong in my brain was a biochemical
event imprinted on an existing, unique personality. I cannot tease
apart, even now, where personality ended and illness began; they
were woven too tightly together. But some of the underlying pattern
of personalitythe part of me that would have existed independently,
with or without any illnessis traceable.


The main thread was my role in my family.


Visitors to my family's house in those days were struck by the
degree to which I played the starring role, by how much the father I
adored also doted on me. My sister, two years older, was intense and
solitary, paralyzingly shy, more at home with animals than people.
As children, we had been companions, living out our fantasies of digging
to China in the backyard or making rock soup. But as we grew
older, the differences in our personalities became increasingly evident.
She lived inside her head, where the boundary between real life
and fiction was often blurred. A scary car-chase scene in some television
drama or film footage of combat in Vietnam terrified her
equally; she would watch, curled up on the sofa, her face screwed up
with horror, and once she abruptly fled the living room in tears during
a Huntley-Brinkley segment on starving children in Biafra. I
didn't know what to make of her.


She was untidy where I was neat, a daydreamer in the classroom
where I was a teacher's pet. I found her an easy mark for my witticisms.
Once I stopped in front of her bedroom, noting the unmade
bed, the pile of dirty clothes in a corner. I had been nagging her all
day about doing her chores. "What are you saving those for?" I asked,
pointing to the dirty clothes. "The Smithsonian?" She lunged at me

[p. <i>53</i>]

My sister was my father's helper, his trusted companion. They
worked agreeably together for hours, fixing the lawn mower or
mending the pasture fence. My relationship with him was more
volatilebut when I wasn't making him mad, I could make him
laugh. "He spoiled you to death," my high school friend Jim said to
me, years later. "It showed in many, many ways." One Friday afternoon,
as I arrived home from the Emory campus across town for a
weekend's visit, he met me in the hallway. "Curly, the whole house
lights up when you're here," he said. Naturally, I thought; it lit up
for me when he was around, too. Weren't we just alike?


That spring, Sam started to get worried about me. He and I had
been out one Saturday night when he told me that he wanted to beg
off on our plan to spend the next day together; his older sister, who
lived about fifty miles away, had organized a last-minute family
reunion, and some relatives would be there he hadn't seen in a while.
The change in my weekend plans sent me catapulting into hysteria; it
was proof that Sam did not love me. I sobbed for hours. He did not
give in to me, and his awkward attempts at comfort only added to
my desolation. A few days later, he told me how exaggerated my reaction
had seemed to him, and how scared he had been by my hysteria.


"I think you should see a doctor," he said.


The last thing I wanted to do was to admit I needed help. That
was synonymous with weakness; intellectually superior people did
not need "counseling" for "emotional problems." On the other hand,
if Sam was worried about me, that was at least a form of attention.
And the idea of rescue was darkly appealing.

[p. <i>54</i>]

Torn between neediness and shame, I ducked out of the dorm
one day, went to a telephone booth down the street, and called my
internist. No, I told his receptionist through clenched teeth, I could
not tell her what the problem was; I needed to <i>talk to the doctor</i>. No, I
did not mind holding.


After a long wait, he came on the line. "What's the matter,
Tracy?" he said.


I don't remember what I told him, but the nature of my distress
must have been apparent, even over the phone. "I want you to come
in and see me," he said. "Come in this Thursday, at the end of the
day. That way, we'll have time to talk."


He was a kind man, a general practitioner in his fifties, with
daughters my age, and he was sure that he could help me. He began
by prescribing Triavil, a drug which contains an antidepressant and
an antipsychotic. (Later, I discovered that he had prescribed a dose
too small to have any effect.) On that first Thursday afternoon, I sat
in his office, looking at the floor and avoiding eye contact, managing
just barely to keep from bursting into tears. At the end of the visit,
he suggested that I come in again the next week.


The visits became weekly events. We would sit in his paneled
office for forty-five minutes or an hour, usually on Thursday afternoons,
while Nita, his receptionist, busied herself outside clearing
away the paperwork debris of the day. It was my first experience in
admitting the existence of the Beast, this strange despair that had
inexplicably decided to stalk me. That was a huge relief, and the
attention from him was enormously cheering. But its effects were
temporary. After a while, Nita's cheery voice would come through
the door: "Good night!" And then it would be time to leave, to catch
the crosstown bus back to campus.


It was a dreary time. And yet I managed that spring to get a

[p. <i>55</i>]

It was my coming of age, a summer of downtown strippers and
hard-boiled newsmen, of sex and drugs and crime, the summer I
learned to drink. The paper's "White House correspondent" was a
reporter who could be found at almost any time of day at a local bar
called the White House. After work, we repaired there to drink concoctions
called B-52s. People with hardy livers drank a doubled-up
versionB-104s. I have no idea what was in them, other than vodka.
My tongue went numb after two sips; they would have made a great
dental anesthetic. I sampled them gingerly, until my head felt light.
It was my first experience of the liberating effects of alcohol, though
it would be years before I actually worked up the nerve to get drunk.


My mother sensed that what she had always feared most was happening:
her little girl was slipping away. It wasn't just that working
on Sundays meant that I had to miss church; what worried her was
my obvious relief at having an excuse. My interest in the tattered
remains of Atlanta's hippie culture, in the goings-on in downtown
flophouses and strip joints, appalled her. That world of poverty and
degradation was the world she had managed to escape, and my fascination
with it must have seemed to her a kind of perverse degeneracy
a sign, perhaps, that I was slipping back into the
poor-white-trash world of her haunted childhood. She worried about
my moral improvement, picking up books I'd left around the house,

[p. <i>56</i>]

My job required me to be at work by seven a.m., and the commute
was at least half an hour, even without one of Atlanta's notable
traffic jams. If I was going to eat breakfast and put on my makeup
(there was, of course, no thought of going without makeup), I had to
be up at five-thirty. But by this time, depression had taken over my
brain, and sleep was its first casualty. I was insomniac, irritable, raging
at the slightest noise in the night, a caldron of anger during the
day. After years of suppressing rage, I now felt like a volcano in continuous
eruption. Any minor inconvenience could set me offmisplacing
a blouse, getting lost somewhere, missing a phone call from
Sam, finding myself stalled in a traffic jam. I felt I was going out of
control. My fear of doing so was at war with my overwhelming need
to express this constant, nameless fury in some physical way. I threw
things; I beat helplessly on the floor with my hairbrush; I scratched
and tore at my own skin. The provocations were always so minor that
I had usually forgotten them by the next day; sometimes I would
look at a bruise on my arm and think: What was that for?


Somehow, I kept some shred of control. My tantrums took place
mostly behind closed doors. I only broke things that belonged to me;
I only scratched myself in places that would not be obvious later. It
seemed to me that if I stifled these outbursts completely, I would go

[p. <i>57</i>]

The year 1976 was a presidential election year. At work, during
the day, I monitored local elections in the counties south of Atlanta,
the labyrinthian political intrigues between candidates for justice of
the peacea judicial office every Georgia county had at least one of,
and whose officeholders my editor referred to collectively as "corn-pone
Buddhas." All during that summer, I wrote in my journal.


It's not pity I feel toward myself ... but a sense
of contemptuous leniency. "Well, she really is sick,"
I seem to think of myself. "Who'd have thought she
had it in her?"


As the weeks passed, I started thinking about the year ahead
my senior year at Emory.


The thought of school fills me with terrorfear
of being faced with an impossible task (that of
appearing normal and happy and making good
grades so no one will worry) and fear of never finding
a place to be alone ... I carry a lead weight in my
stomach and it hurts ... I would like to simply sit
still and close my eyes and withdraw from the world,
but I am too restless for that.


And yet: I knew I was more than this sicknessthough that was
an insight that came only sporadically. Sometimes it came in the
form of music, which I listened to like an aphasic personmouth

[p. <i>58</i>]

I envy Beethoven because he could turn suffering
into art. He was liberated in every sense of the word.
He was deaf, he was stout and unlovely, he was
lonely and he lived most of his life alonebut the
music from a man who perhaps had the most reasons
for being unhappy can transmit such a sense of joy
that it fills my room ... I feel as if I am serving a
prison term. But his music is like looking through a
window of the prison cell ... It's a hope that someday
I'll be able to break out of myself, that I'll be
free.


In fact, the opposite was happening. My emotionsmy life
seemed out of my control. Slowly, in ways invisible to me at the
time, the depression was altering my personality, as if a slight deformity
in my spine were giving me a permanent limp. The changes
were not the symptoms of depression but coping mechanisms for
dealing with it, and they built on existing personality traits. I had
always been anxious to win others' approval, but now that need

[p. <i>59</i>]

I cultivated mentors and father figures, people whose power I
perceived as greater than my own. My own father was engaging and
jovial, yet somehow remote. I found it impossible to confide in him,
and so wanted only to performto show him what a good student I
was, how many friends I had. But he was impatient with foibles and
expert at picking out the one flaw in an otherwise perfect performance.
Over the years, as my unsullied report cards became littered
with B's in math and science, his comments were always the same:
"What about this B?" If he was upset about a B in math, how could
I tell him I was losing my mind?


But I was needy for male attention, so I sought it from other
menmy boyfriend, my professors, my editors. I demanded Sam's
attention. When enough was not forthcoming I directed my anger
at his sisters and his mother, who lived in another city. They were
too demanding, I said; they wanted too much of his time. My jealousy
caused many fights between us, but I could not see how much of
the problem rested with me. How could it be? I needed what I
needed; to say I shouldn't need so much was like saying I shouldn't
breathe so much air. In fact, I was ashamed. At some level, I understood
that there was something extravagant about my demands.


The possibility that Sam might leave Atlanta to go to medical
school was my most constant, looming fear. I saw other friends deal
with separations, even with a boyfriend or girlfriend going to college
in another stateand I couldn't imagine doing that. Seeing
other people handle it made me feel childish and weak. I lobbied
against it, strenuously and surreptitiously, by dropping broad hints
about what a good medical school Emory had, right here in Atlanta.

[p. <i>60</i>]

My self-worth was entirely in the hands of other people, but they
didn't know it; that meant I had to look out for it, while not letting
them know the immense power they wielded over me. In my dealings
with my professors, who were nearly all men, I was foolishly
ecstatic at their praise, despondent at the slightest criticism. I would
leave their offices silently repeating some compliment; later, I would
write it down verbatim, and stare at the words, as if by doing so I
could own the reality they represented. I was abjectly dependent on
what they thought of me. "I'm not the least bit worried about you
you are a writer," my creative-writing professor scribbled at the end
of one of my short stories, and I repeated that sentence like a mantra
for years. My opinion of myselfthe opinion of this defective and
possibly deranged person who inhabited my bodydidn't count.


That summer, my energies were devoted to culling recognition
from my editors. The city editor, Bob, was a rotund, balding man
made perpetually snappish by the deadline pressure. He seemed to
take a perverse pleasure in telling us interns what miserable cretins
we were, how we were unable to construct a decent sentence, much
less write a newspaper story on deadline. In our first meeting with
him, he solicited story suggestions from us. What would we like to
write about this summer? It was a setup. There was an uncomfortable
silence, and then another interna pleasant-faced young man, scion
of a well-to-do northeast Atlanta family, self-effacing and terminally
politecleared his throat and began to talk. He went on at some
length, encouraged by our silence. When he paused, Bob looked at
him, deadpan. "That," Bob said deliberately, "is probably the stupidest
idea I have ever heard an intern come up with."


I made Bob my special project. Winning the approval of the

[p. <i>61</i>]

After a few weeks, my efforts paid off. Bob called me into his
office for a chat.


"Of all the ones we hired this summer," he said, "you are the only
one we'd even <i>think</i> about hiring permanently." It was, for him, the
highest of praise. Later, I told my fellow interns that Bob had been
discouraging. "Don't be upset," they said. "He's been telling all of us
that we aren't any good." Silently, I exulted. Another stamp of
approval. Yes!

[p. <i>62</i>]

At home, I was histrionic, prone to crying jags, silent glowering,
dramatic pronouncements about minor crises. My mother asked
me to pray with her; it was all she could think of to do. Sometimes I
complied, gritting my teeth; at other times, I coldly rejected her suggestion.
My sister and I were strangers, even though her room was
next to mine and she could hear me sobbing in frustration at night
when I couldn't sleep.


"I can tell something's wrong with you," she said to me one day.
"I don't know what it is."


"Me either," I said. And then we both turned away, baffled.


By the time I went back to school for my senior year in the fall of
1976, I was still making weekly visits to my doctor. I had developed
a powerful adolescent crush on this fiftyish man with the lumpy nose,
who took me so seriously. But, slowly, he was beginning to realize
that this problem was outside his competence. He had been sure that
a few fatherly chats would help, but they had only made him the new
focus of my neediness. He did not want to admit it, but he was
defeated.


That winter, he told me our sessions had to end. And then,
adding insult to that grievous injury, he said he thought I needed to
see a specialist. He had someone in mind. It was a woman, which he
thought would help me be more comfortable. Furious and hurt, I
reluctantly went to see her.


She was a psychotherapist. I will call her Amanda Mayhew. We
were to spend much of the next ten years together.


Amanda was a large woman, tastefully dressed, self-consciously
poised, and middle-aged, with a soft drawl that, to my trained ears,
bespoke an upper-class upbringing or at least faded Southern gentility.

[p. <i>63</i>]

The next week, with the test results before her, Amanda's comfortable
maternal demeanor was tinged with concern: she told me
she had never seen a patient whose verbal and performance IQ scores
showed such a gap, unless you counted the ones who were learning-disabled.
My verbal score was exceptionally high, but my performance
score didn't match at all; it was in the low range. I
remembered that part of the test; it had involved moving nine colored
cubes around so that their tops would duplicate various square
patterns on a sheet of paper. I had been acutely anxious that day, and
I remembered how if I did not immediately see how to solve the
problem, I had just sat there, staring at the cubes until the instructor
said, "Time's up." Amanda correctly interpreted the disparity in the
results as evidence of acute anxiety. "Right now, you're like an airplane
flying on one engine," she said. I felt fear and relief: fear that
there was something wrong with my brain, relief at realizing that
someone had finally noticed. Given my level of anxiety and the trouble
I was having concentrating in school, Amanda said, I might be
interested in checking into a hospital. But, she added, she was not a
physician, and she could not prescribe drugs. If I thought I needed a
hospital, she could refer me to someone else.


I assured her that would not be necessary. The idea of a hospital
terrified me; the fact that she would even mention it gave me
thoughts of bolting. I could not imagine how I would explain my
absence from classes. And my experience with Triavilwhich I had
ended up taking only for a few monthshad convinced me drugs

[p. <i>64</i>]

My mother and Amanda never met, but between them there
arose an instant, deep enmity. My mother saw Amanda as a rival who
would rob her of my love, and psychotherapy as a tool to destroy
every religious impulse she had labored to instill in me. Amanda
considered my mother deranged with jealousy. As for me, I saw
Amanda with affection that quickly became mixed with hostility;
she was a maternal icon of rescue, but there was something implacable
about her. She never seemed to come forth with the kind of
unconditional acceptance I craved.


In the beginning, in the winter of 1977, my weekly sessions with
her were a point of stability, a time when I knew my chaotic feelings
would be listened to and taken seriously. Slowly, the depressive
episode which had begun the previous spring began to wane. As
spring came, and graduation loomed, I felt betternot happy, but at
least not preoccupied with thoughts of suicide. Now, I thought, the
real work of therapy could begin.


But once this immediate crisis was past, our sessions began to
resemble one long mother-daughter fight. With Amanda, I could act
out the rebelliousness I felt toward my own mother. I had never felt
free to rebel at home; my mother's need for security was so profound
that the usual kinds of teenage rebellionloutish boyfriends, surreptitious
pot smoking, profane musicwould have shattered her.
Amanda became her proxy. My insistence on continuing my therapy
with Amanda constituted the gravest kind of challenge to my
mother's authority, though it was one battle I could avoid fighting in

[p. <i>65</i>]

Amanda tried to maintain the proper distance between us, and
failed. There was something in her, too, that needed to act out a
mother-daughter fight, and our doctor-patient relationship was
tainted from the beginning by a distinctly personal element. Some of
our battles were epicscenes of angry tears, slamming doors, furious
letters of denunciation on my part, tight-lipped disapproval on hers.
"You were one messed-up little girl when I first met you," she told me
toward the end of our relationship, with a withering emphasis on the
phrase "little girl." Her tone made it clear I hadn't changed much.


She was right. My ego needed constant stroking; my self-esteem
was so brittle that the slightest criticism from Amanda felt like a
death threat. Yet at other times, it seemed that nothing I could say
or do could penetrate her maddening serenity.


Wednesday, just as I was leaving, Amanda saw
my hand, where I had scratched it, and asked, "What
happened?" I looked down at my hand. What was
visible were only the most minor scratches; most of
the marks were hidden by my sleeve.


"I scratched it," I said.


"That must be a very painful way to live."


"There didn't seem to be anything else to do," I
said. "I just sat and watched myself do it. It was very
easy. It could have been a lot worse."


"You find it difficult to deal with your anger,"

[p. <i>66</i>]

she commented, in one of those professional
Olympian assessments of the obvious I find so particularly
annoying.


"Well, if anyone can think of a better way, I'd be
glad to hear it."


"See you next week," she said, and I thought: you
bitch.


It was not at all clear to me what Amanda thought my problem
was; "depression" seemed the least of ita mere symptom, not an
illness in its own right. Amanda changed her diagnosis several times
over the years, but a few stick in my mind. "Hysterical personality
disorder" was one of the firsta label I later learned had been very
popular earlier in the century, but had since gone out of vogue. "Narcissistic
personality disorder" was another; still another, which I
think Amanda used mainly to qualify me for a short-lived state aid
program when my mother was balking at paying the mounting bills,
was "borderline schizophrenic."


But does a personality disorder cause depression, or does depression
cause personality disorders? The theory Amanda and I worked
under was the the first. If I could begin to understand my disturbed
relationship with others, and to repair my sagging self-esteem, the
depression which affected me like a persistent undertow would
resolve itself.


My mother accused me tearfully of replacing my religion with
the false god of psychotherapy. She was right. I had abandoned my
childhood church only to find myself in anotherone without pews
and altars, but one which required no fewer articles of faith. Pills of
any kind were a short circuit to that process, as bogus to the psychoanalytic
realm as sharkskin-suited TV evangelists were to main-stream

[p. <i>67</i>]

After graduation, I moved back home to live with my parents,
and took the only journalism job I could find in the Atlanta area,
working for a small weekly newspaper on the south side of the city.
For the next two years, I waited for life to start.


It stubbornly refused to do so. Sam continued to dodge the issue
of marriage. He had failed to get into medical school the first time
around, and was busy taking extra courses to bring up his grade
point average. I would not consider leaving Atlanta, because it would
mean leaving him, my family and friends, my sole sources of emotional
security. But despite Bob's grudging endorsement, my efforts
to get hired at the <i>Atlanta Journal-Constitution</i> were persistently
rebuffed. I was seeing Amanda once a week. But therapy, too, seemed
to be getting nowhere. There were times in those sessions when I
sobbed, undone by the force of some painful realizationonly to
drive home and pause, my hand on the doorknob, trying to remember
exactly which searing insight it was that was going to change
my life.


In 1979, two years after we had both graduated from Emory,
Sam got into medical school. Unable to convince Emory that he
would make a good doctor, he had succeeded in getting into More-house,
the historically black college across town. Morehouse was just
starting its medical school, and it was emphasizing the training of
primary-care doctors to work in poor and rural areas. That suited
Sam; that had actually been his idea from the beginning, which made

[p. <i>68</i>]

That same year, I rented my first apartment with Necie, the
childhood friend whose words"Be sweet"as I got off the school
bus that day years ago had almost been the last words I ever heard.
For a while, I spent weekends with Sam in his rental house on the
other side of town. But there were only so many Saturday nights I
could stand, watching television in the den while he studied in the
kitchen, waking at two a.m. to see the light still on down the hall.
As time passed, it was clear that he was growing closer to his classmates
than to me. While the intense neediness I had felt during that
awful spring several years earlier had abated, it was still powerful; I
spent most of my time trying to figure out ways we could be
together. I was getting increasingly frustrated with the rut I was
stuck in, both at work and with Sam. And yet marriage still seemed
the only way out.


Then, in 1980, the weekly newspaper I was working for unexpectedly
got a new editor. His name was Charlie Smith. He was the
oldest son of an aristocratic south Georgia family whose characters
could have peopled a Tennessee Williams play. At thirty-three, Charlie
was the veteran of one failed marriage and numerous misadventures
with cars, alcohol, and women. I was mesmerized by his sleepy
south Georgia drawl, his languid style of sucking on a cigarette, his
carefully cultivated James-Dean-goes-to-Memphis persona. Before
long, he was writing me poetry when he should have been working
and we were exchanging smoldering looks over our typewriters.

[p. <i>69</i>]

Weeks went by while I agonized and temporized, making assignations
with Charlie while maintaining a front with Sam. Finally, I
summoned up the resolve to tell Sam I wanted to date somebody else.
This didn't mean, I added hastily, that we had to stop seeing each
other.


"I am not interested in being one of your many admirers," Sam
said shortly. At that moment, we were sitting at his kitchen table.
There was a long silence. Then I stood up and left. I had wanted to
end the relationship for some time, but there was no way I was going
to quit one boyfriend without having another one lined up. Now, at
last, I had the opportunity. I felt sad, but also clearheaded, and
immensely relieved. No more deception, no more uncertainty.


I immediately went to Charlie and told him the news. He was
not overjoyed. One of my main attractions for him had been that I
was someone else's girlfriend. He went after women the way dogs
chase carsfor the thrill. Having caught one, he wasn't sure what
he wanted to do. Neither was I. So we did the next best thing: we
broke uponly to get back together the next week. It was the beginning
of a six-month off-again, on-again phase of our affair. But I was
to have other distractions.


In July 1981, after four years of weekly journalism, editing wedding
announcements and covering local city council meetings, my
persistent efforts to get the attention of the big newspaper down-town
finally paid off. The <i>Atlanta Constitution</i> offered me a reporting
job. I started work in August 1981.

[p. <i>70</i>]

By then, my father had been dying of cancer for two years.


Doctors had found a malignant tumor in his bladder, probably
the result of a smoking habit he had picked up years earlier, in the
Army Air Corps. By my first day of work at the <i>Constitution</i>, he was
in a hospital about a mile away, wasted and weakened by chemotherapy,
his hair gone, his skin mottled with liver spots. He was only
fifty-nine, and he looked like an old man.


In the evenings, I relieved my mother at the hospital while she
got something to eat. My sister's job was to stay at home, take care of
my father's mother, who was then living with us, tend to the house
and to the horses she kept in the pasture next door. As the weeks
passed, and summer waned, it was clear that the end was coming.
But death took its time; death was a bureaucrat. Dying in a hospital
was something which had to be done by exacting rules. And so when
the cancer made it impossible for him to eat, the doctors inserted a
food tube in his stomach, to keep him going. Even as the malignant
cells continued their invasion into his lungs, they kept up the
chemotherapy. I often wondered which would kill him quicker, cancer
or modern medicine. The poisons they dripped into his veins
made him feverish and delusional. He hallucinated, picking at imaginary
objects and quoting, most improbably, bits of Robert Browning's
poem "Caliban upon Setebos." One afternoon, my mother and I
were standing on opposite sides of the bed, each of us holding one
of his hands. And then, for a moment, he came back to us; he opened
his eyes and looked at us with something like his old deadpan slyness.


"Say," he remarked, in a tone of offhand curiosity, "do you little
girls do manicures?"


He fell into a light coma in early October. I welcomed it, for his
sake. By then, the pain had become unendurable. <i>Go</i>, I urged him

[p. <i>71</i>]

He had left us already, I thought. But one day, my mother and I
had stepped out of the room to make some calls on the pay phone
down the hall. A few minutes later, she sent me back into the room
to get some change from her purse. I was fishing around in her wallet,
facing the window, when something made me turn around. It
was my father, looking at me.


He had a slight smile on his face. It was not the vacant smile I
had seen before. It was <i>his</i> smile; behind those eyes, just for a
moment, my father had returned. He could not speak, and somehow
I understood that. But he didn't need to. The look on his face said
everything. It was an instant, just long enough to say goodbye.


"Oh, Daddy," I said, "I am so proud to be your daughter." For a
moment we looked at each other, and the love between us was like a
tangible, living presence. I could not hold his gaze; the look that he
turned on me was so intense it seemed to burn my skin. I buried my
face on his chest. When I looked again, the eyes were blank; my
father had gone. He died two weeks later, on a gray October afternoon
that threatened rain.


My mother was inconsolable, her grief frightening in its abject
need. My sister withdrew into her own stony desolation. My own
reaction was amazement. I could not, at first, grasp the idea that he
was dead, and that life was continuing anyway. At night, I dreamed
of hearing the faint sound of a woman's sobs, coming from the end of

[p. <i>72</i>]

It was the bitterest winter Atlanta had seen in at least half a century.
"FOUR BELOW!" screamed one newspaper headline from that
January. It seemed like a portent of doom, the first sign of another ice
age. The color of the sky was the color of the interior of my brain:
unrelieved gray, not even a faint glow that might have been the sun.
It was Emily Dickinson's hour of lead, a paradigm imposed by grief
for every serious depressive episode I would have for the next seven
years: short days, no sunlight, a pervading sense of abandonment. In
January, Charlie left Atlanta for good to go to graduate school at the
Iowa Writer's Workshop, and so that, too, was over.


In the space of six months, I had lost three men, including the
most important one in my life. This was the utter catastrophe I had
foreseen so dimly in those wakeful hours years ago, during that
mockingbird spring; this was pure loss, desolate and total. The grief
I feltthe grief anyone would have feltwas exacerbated by the
extent to which I had depended on those men for my self-worth. It
felt like someone had opened the hatch in my spacecraft; outside, the
blank universe loomedcold, airless, and incomprehensible. I was a
speck. I barely existed in my own right. Deep in those winter nights,
I sat awake, every light in the house turned on, thinking of the pain
my father had suffered. For no purpose, I kept saying, for no goddamn
purpose. He was dead and God was silent.

[p. <i>73</i>]

That winter, grief made its acquaintance with depression, its near
neighbor. As the months went by, the breathtaking reality of my
father's death became a physical hurt, a heaviness in my bones, a pervasive
lethargy. I slept long, long hours; when I was awake, I comforted
myself with food. None of this alarmed me; I had forgotten
what anything else felt like. It was, though I did not know it, the
blanketing of depression. It was the Beast, returned in a new form,
insinuating himself into my daily life, taking over where grief left off.


The brain changes in minute, anatomical ways every time it
learns somethingone neuron finds another, connects in a new way.
So it was with grief and depression: that winter, the paths traced by
those two states were carved into my brain like worn footpaths,
merging in the snow.


In 1984, I applied for a one-year fellowship for legal affairs writers
at Yale Law School. By then, I had been at the <i>Constitution</i> for
three years, the last two of which I had spent covering federal court.
I enjoyed the work; it was one of the best beats at the paper. But in
1982, the merger of the reporting staffs of the <i>Atlanta Journal</i> and
the <i>Atlanta Constitution</i> had created a deadline schedule that ran virtually
around the clock. It was like being a wire service reporter,
always rushing from the courtroom to file an update on pay phones,
constantly cramming in a new lead before the next edition. After two
years, I was burned out. My editor, Jim Stewart, suggested that I
apply for the Yale program, and then performed a miracle by arranging
for me to stay on the payroll for the year I would be gone. The
news of my acceptance came in a phone call I received at my desk
late one afternoon in April 1984. When I heard the words I shrieked
with joy. <i>My life</i>, I thought, <i>my life is starting</i>.

[p. <i>74</i>]

My Yale adventure seemed like a good place to stop therapy. It
was obviously not getting me the main thing I wanted, which was to
transform myself into a desirable marriage partner. Toward the end
of that pre-Yale period, I had even begun to doubt the truth of the
memories I had of that terrible spring in college. Maybe, I thought,
I was just a psychic hypochondriac. <i>You've pampered yourself enough</i>, I
thought. <i>Time to grow up</i>. New Haven, I thought, would mark my
new beginning, And so Amanda and I took formal leave of each other
before I left for New Haven.


The fellowship, open to five or six journalists every year, put us
into the same first-year classes as all the other law students, though
we were allowed more freedom than the regular students to choose
our courses during the second semester. Yale prided itself on being a
school of legal theory and social policy, not a place where you learned
the nitty-gritty details of the law. It trained future judges and professors
and government leaders; the joke was, if you wanted to actually
practice <i>law</i>, you had to go to Harvard. But that made it an ideal
place for a journalist who wrote about the law. For the first time, I
began to catch a glimpse of the outlines of the forest I had been
working in.


I promised myself I would not take academic matters too seriously,
that I would use my time in New Haven to explore, to make
trips to New York, to do more than bury my nose in a book. And to
some extent, I did. But I found the study of law absorbing. It was
not an ordeal to stay in the library until two a.m.; I actually liked it.
That intellectual pleasure helped shield me from the fact that I was
acutely lonely. I had chosen to live off campus; I had no fond memories
of college life in a dorm. But living off campus isolated me from
the life of the law school, and I found it hard to make friends. It was
a godsend, then, when about a third of my way through the year I

[p. <i>75</i>]

I returned to Atlanta in June 1985 to create a newly defined legal
affairs beat at the <i>Constitution</i>. The cast of characters there had
changed somewhat, but it still felt familiar and comfortable; I
slipped easily into my old world. I had given up my old apartment
before I left for New Haven, so now I rented the second floor of a
rambling old house in Candler Park. It was a huge placetwo bedrooms,
two baths, two porches, a living and dining room that ran
the length of the house, more room than I could afford. But I loved
it. So I placed an ad at the Emory alumni office seeking a roommate.
The person who answered was a graduate student in philosophy at
Emory named Patti Van Tuyl.


She was a small woman with curly red hair, a few years older than
I, immersed in her dissertation on Hegel. We immediately became
best friends. Patti called my pursuit of the Right Man "the search
for the transcendental object X." She even bought me a wooden
block-letter X to remind me that what I was looking fora person
who could guarantee my happinessdid not exist. I often suspected
as much, but I wasn't ready to give up on it.


In the meantime, there was my career at the <i>Constitution</i>. Because
it was in Atlanta, the newspaper was a magnet for reporters all over

[p. <i>76</i>]

We heard that story from the paper's old-timers. There were
quite a few of them, veterans of an age when journalists did not go to
Ivy League schools and women in the newsroom were there to write
obits or sob stories. Hard newsdefined as crime stories or politics
was a man's work. The men who did it were irascible, irreverent,
and hidebound. To get along with them you had to be prepared
to engage in some verbal mud wrestling. They rarely moved from
their desks; years in the business had given them an array of contacts,
and they could find out more about a statehouse scandal by picking
up the phone and calling ol' Tom in the back room than we could in

[p. <i>77</i>]

"Monty," I said. "Did a goat piss on that piece of rope you're
putting in your mouth?"


Several people looked up. There was a general rumble of laughter;
I had scored a point. Monty drew himself up to his full height,
glaring at me through thick eyeglasses. He had shoulder-length gray
hair and a beard; when he was mad, which he was at that moment, he
looked like the prophet Jeremiah on a bad hair day.


"No!" he bellowed. "<i>I did</i>!" Everybody roared. Game, set, and
match; I learned to live with cigar smoke.


Work was my vocation, my social life, my entertainment, my
armor against the world. I was Tracy Thompson, <i>Atlanta Constitution</i>
reportera fact I managed to insert into the first five minutes of
almost every conversation. My immediate goals were quite modest:
to keep up a social life that was so busy I had no solitude or chance
for reflection. I cooked fabulous dinners, I spent evenings at Manuel's
Tavern, I partied late and hardalmost always with my co-workers.
There had been no serious relationships for me since Charlie, a fact
which caused me anguish but which I managed to joke about. When
I filled out forms and got to the blank indicating sex, I told Patti, I
wrote, "Once a year. Usually in the spring." My romantic life was

[p. <i>78</i>]

I had long ago given up the idea that someone might remark on
this. Either it was normal, and other people had devised better ways
of dealing with it, or I was simply defective in some way, like someone
born with a missing limb. Either way, stoic acceptance seemed
the only option. I thought I had achieved stoicism, but one day a
friend's bluntness stunned me.


"Ever since you've come back from Yale," Jerry said, "there's
been a veil of sadness over you."


We were sitting in the lobby at Symphony Hall, during intermission.
I protested. No, I said, I <i>wasn't</i> depressed; what did I have to
be depressed about? I was fine. But later, in the concert's second half,
I brooded about what he had said. It was true. As frightening as it
was to admit, I did feel quietly despairing. I had no sense of how to
define this sorrow, other than my longing to be marriedand even
then, I did not know where my normal human longing for intimacy

[p. <i>79</i>]

Once acknowledged, the sadness crept in like fast-rising floodwaters.
Several nights later, talking to Patti, I began to soba racking,
uncontrollable crying spell that lasted several hours. Patti was
alarmed. The next morning, I did not go to work, but lay on the sofa,
bereft of even a mild interest in what the day might bring. In the
next room, I heard Patti on the phone, speaking low.


"She's here right now," she was telling someone. "I'm really worried."


I wasn't. This was just another episode in my life, which seemed
to be punctuated by these rounds of pointless despair. It was not evidence
of illness; it was evidence of the fact that I was screwing up
somehow. I just didn't know exactly where the screwup was, much
less how to fix it. That was anguish, but the anguish was bearable as
long as I kept my mind occupied with other things. The only permanent
solutionand, increasingly, I wasn't even sure about this
was the right man, a happy marriage. There was nothing wrong with
me that the transcendental object X couldn't cure.


And then an event happened which brought home, brutally, the
danger I was in.


I had met Fay Joyce only once, at a hearing at the Eleventh Circuit
Court of Appeals in Atlanta sometime in the spring of 1984, at

[p. <i>80</i>]

I had heard of her for years. She was an Atlanta reporter who had
left for bigger arenasin her case, a job at the <i>New York Times</i>. That,
or a job at the <i>Washington Post</i> or the <i>Wall Street Journal</i>, was the
career move most of us aspired to. Fay was the prototype of those
who did it: smart, driven, politically astute. Her career was of interest
to me for another reason: we had both started at the same company,
a string of free-circulation suburban weeklies based in Decatur.
This obscure start, I noted, had not held her back.


In the late fall of 1985, more than a year after that encounter, I
heard that Fay was thinking of returning to Atlanta from New York
to become the <i>Constitution</i>'s chief political correspondent. The move
was talked about as a triumphal return, but it was odd. Fay was too
young to be thinking about returning to her roots, and it was strange
for an up-and-coming writer in her mid-thirties, especially one without
spouse or children, to leave the center of the media universe for
the green lawns of the Atlanta suburbs. I heard gossip that things
had not gone well for her at the <i>Times</i>, and this seemed plausible.
One of the ways we all coped with not being at the <i>New York Times</i>
was to tell ourselves that it was a hellish place to work.


The day in December 1985 when she was supposed to start her
new job at the <i>Constitution</i>, I came into the newsroom, dumped my
purse under my desk, and started to take off my coat. My deskmate,
Jane Hansen, turned to me.

[p. <i>81</i>]

"Did you hear about Fay Joyce?" Jane said. "She's dead. Shot herself."


I felt icy. I stared at Jane with my coat half off while she told me
what she knew: that Fay had failed to take the plane to Atlanta, had
failed to show up at the hotel room reserved for her, had not
answered phone calls at her apartment in New York. That morning,
a building superintendent who had entered her apartment with a
passkey to show it to a prospective tenant had found her body in the
bathroom, with a bullet in her head. She had bought the gun on her
last trip to Atlanta, at a pawnshop three blocks from the paper, after
having a cordial dinner with Frederick Allen, the paper's political
columnist. They had talked about Fay's new job and projects they
might collaborate on. I looked at Rick Allen, sitting several rows
away. He looked grim-faced and ashen. I felt cold all overcold in
my heart, cold in my bones.


Later, I gleaned more detailsenough to tell me that Fay had
been slipping into a severe depression for at least a year before her
death. The Beast had stalked her during the 1984 presidential campaign,
in which she was covering Jesse Jackson. She had fought it,
had fled it at times, had even once gone AWOL from the campaign
trail for a few days. About the same time, she had begun a love affair,
which had turned out badly. Friends who saw ominous changes in
her behavior either shrugged it off as moodiness or were unable to
break through her iron determination to seem "normal." The <i>Times</i>
had reassigned her to a less demanding job on the real estate page.
The move was probably well-intentioned, but Fay had interpreted it
as a humiliating exile. The wisest course would have been to take a
leave of absence, check into a hospital, and get well. Instead, Fay did
what I would have done: she had tried to escape. She had gotten

[p. <i>82</i>]

Behind that bathroom door, or in some other bleak room like it,
I knew I might come face-to-face with the Beast too. <i>This</i>, I thought,
<i>is what waits for you if you aren't careful</i>. I felt like a soldier in a trench
who had just seen the person next to him get blown to bits. It was
frightening not to be able to tell people that. Even more frightening
was how easily Fay had slipped over the edge. Surrounded by colleagues
in the news business who made their living by learning the
latest developments in every field, who lived to gather information
and disseminate it, she had somehow managed to escape anyone's
informed scrutinyor, at the least, had felt that she could not afford
to admit being ill. I knew why. Behind the shock and sadness that I
saw on the faces of my colleagues, under the guilt, I also detected
something else: embarrassment. <i>It's too bad</i>, I could imagine people
thinking. <i>Didn't know anything was wrong with her. She always seemed so
normal</i>. I knew that whatever "abnormality" Fay had suffered from, I
had as well. But to say that was out of the question. I had too many
years invested in therapy to admit how much I still identified with
her.


I tried to shake off the bone-chilling fear, and couldn't. I felt like
a person who had received serious, unsettling news about his
healthwhich, in a way, I had. But how could I tell anyone? <i>I have
thought about killing myself too. I have thought about it many times, for
years</i>. Even to sound out those words in my head seemed weirdly
melodramatic. Even so, I tried to make my mouth say them. One
night, several weeks later, I called my friend Susan, who also worked
at the newspaper and who lived nearby. I said I needed to talk; could
I come over? Susan was clearing away the dinner dishes when I

[p. <i>83</i>]

"What's the matter?" Susan asked.


"It's Fay," I said, and I began to sob. Susan looked at me in fear
and bafflement.


"Tracy, what's the matter?" she said. "What's really bothering
you? You didn't even know Fay that well."


I looked at her and could not answer. And in that silence I found
the worst fear of all.

