*TEXT-PV010266  15 January 1970            2705
______________________________________________________________________________
PATIENT: (4-minute silence) I can't quite make out what thoughts are really on my mind.  But I keep finding I feel somewhat nervous.  And what makes me feel less nervous, or at least I start to feel more at ease when I think about school, so I keep finding I start thinking about it.  (Sniff)  And about activities in the last day or two that worked well.  And, I don't know, things, again that I can do in the future.  But it's, I, I know I'm thinking that way because it's more comfortable.  And I don't know what was cause and effect. 
I know, uhm, I left home today without finishing a report that I was working on.  And I just knew that I couldn't finish in the time that I might have stayed to do it in.  But also, I got really nervous about the fact that somehow I didn't quite know what I wanted to say, and therefore, wasn't, well, I was having trouble getting down what I wanted to say, because I didn't, I w—, I felt as if I wasn't sure exactly what I wanted to say.  And so now I think it's sort of on the back of my mind that there's this report to go back to.  And I'm wondering if I can handle it.  And then wondering if I can handle being off my schedule.
But even then, I wasn't that nervous when I left.  But on the subway I think what got me nervous was a thought I had when a boy was sitting next to me, a young boy, maybe a little older than the boys I teach.  And at one point I noticed how he was holding his hands, which reminded me of the way so many of the boys in my class hold theirs, the way they hold their finger.  And his hands were sort of plump, the way the age I teach have plump hands, too.  And it just made me think that of, I don't know, just all sorts of aspects of the age of boys I teach that I like.  And, I don't know, that made me nervous.  I don't know whether, I don't know, it led me into thinking then, well maybe I'd like to go back to teaching that age sometime.  And it was the thinking about going back to teaching that made me nervous.
I don't know, it was as if somehow I hadn't really been handling it.  And once I'm out of it I won't want to go back.  Or, or that I might want to go back, but that doesn't make the fact that I can't really handle it, any different. 
And I also think of a dream that I was having this morning when I woke up of, I think, there was another person involved that I think that, it was a female, I don't know how old.  But I was counting on this person and I was trying to get into a class of some sort.  And I think it was connected in my dream with art.  And I couldn't get into a class.  She tried to, she was already in some program wherever this took place, and she was trying to get me in and couldn't.  And then I couldn't get in one, either.  And it was, I don't know, the feeling I couldn't get into one, and also that I needed it.  And I don't know why I needed it.  (Sniff, Silence)
I started thinking just now too, of something that I was thinking while I was teaching today.  That I've been feeling the children have been quite high a lot of the time, or hard to keep following directions and that kind of thing.  I mean, even within the bounds of what they have to do, no matter how unstructured I make it.  And today it was just striking me that so often it seem—, I felt that I was nagging them and berating them for not doing this and that right, and not being absolutely perfect.   And then at some point they were doing something, and I found myself find—, I think they either had a writing lesson that had turned out to be quite difficult and they didn't do some of the things at the end, like cleaning up and so forth, that they usually have done. 
And at first, I was about ready to start lecturing about that.  And then, I just thought well, whatever the reason, even if it surprised me that this particular lesson was hard, it was hard, and so I ended up saying things positively about it and the children reacted much better.  And it just made me — I mean they reacted much better for a good part of the day — and it just made me think about how I, how I fluctuate so much on being able to look at things positively, or look at things negatively.  (Sniff)  And how, it just seems like so often I'm trying to teach them, and get them to do things differently, through negative means rather than through positive means.  (3-minute silence)
I think I'm avoiding what I've been avoiding all week, because I just started thinking about a conversation I had with FBS today, about birth control pills.  And I think what was on her mind was more, she's just gone back on them.  And now there's all this publicity about how dangerous they might be.  And then, what was on my mind during that conversation was more, I'm planning to go off them anyway.  But now I don't know whether to learn how to use a diaphragm and do that, or just what I should do.  And that's what I just began to think about now.  (Sniff) 
ANALYST: That's an art class that you have to get into?
PATIENT: I don't quite see the connection. 
ANALYST: Well, I don't know that there is.  It just strikes me that you tell me the dream, you don't say anything about it, and then say what you've really been thinking about now is, among other things, whether you should learn to use a diaphragm, and whether you need it and why do you need it.  Which are the questions in the dream.
PATIENT: (Silence)  I can see the connection on the questions, and then I began to think about, I know that I'm still hesitant to become pregnant.  I still have fears about it, just I, right now it strikes me just because of what I have been saying about the children at school.  That I do fluctuate so much in the way I relate to them, or relate to people just in general. 
But then, uhm, I was just thinking about that FBS at one point said her sister-in-law also had just gone off the pills and become pregnant immediately, and then had a miscarriage.  Which is what one of these reports I'd read said was often happening.  And having something go wrong with my pregnancy, d—, having that possibility bothers me, as well as these other fears. 
And then I just was thinking well, there really isn't that much of a problem to decide what to do, because in a way I'd already decided.  Even though I was going to go off the pills in February, I didn't really want to become pregnant right away.  Uh, I don't know whether this is a rationalization, but partly because I wanted some time next year when I might have been at school to, I guess, almost test myself to see what I will do.  And, and yet not have it such that I know I'm about to have a baby, so that I won't really find it a test.  And when I thought that, I just felt panicked that, how could I possibly not have something set to do next year that I know ahead?  That I won't, I won't have any resources to draw on.  And unless something's set way ahead, I, because I, it's almost always been true that I've known way ahead what I was going to do next.  And I'll just be kind of lost, otherwise. 
Yet, I know that that is a real fear too, of just being lost and maybe just doing something just for the sake of doing something.  But not really wanting to.  And yet, I don't know, I keep thinking now, that I have to face it and be in that position, or else I'll just always have that fear, and I'll never handle it.  (Silence)
And I think, I was just thinking about the fact that to an extent, I went through this when I was in PEC.  But it, still it was different because I had a definite purpose there.  Every day, I knew at certain hours I'd be doing something very specific.  And uhm, it was a new country, so there was a lot sort of built in already.  But then I was just thinking that, part of my vision of days when I didn't have a job and had no other responsibilities than what I have now of keeping house and all, which I could spend more time on and might enjoy, I don't know, that I would just have more time to be relaxed.  And then it was very clear to me that being relaxed means to me wasting time.  (Pause) And that somehow, I have to always feel that I'm driving myself, which is proof of the fact I'm being productive.  (Sniff, Silence)
And when I say that, I get this picture of my, both my parents running around driving themselves all the time, wherever they are.  (Silence)
(Sniff) Well, I don't know if—, whether I use this as a way to think about school and feel more comfortable, but after I said that about my parents I thought well, that's just what I do, too.  Which is really what I've been saying anyway.  And then I thought of FHYZ and how she does, too.  Because when I got the picture of me and driving myself, it was a picture that I've lately often thought is just the way FHYZ used to be, too, when she was in the classroom, still is, in a different way, but under her new capacity.  And, and then from there I just started thinking about, well, I thought about the fact that FHYZ brought up something today for both of us, but gave it to FBS.  And I think I was jealous that she did.  But then I went from that to thinking about other things.
ANALYST: (Interrupting) Mm.  What was it?
PATIENT: Uhm, some books that the boys read in our class that had been given to her by s—, a parent.  (Pause)  It must have really, I think that did bother me though, because after she did that, I assumed it must be something that was only connected with FBS.  Because then she came into my room.  It was almost as if she felt, well now, she had to give me some attention, since she'd given FBS some.  But she didn't mention what she'd brought up, at all.  (Pause)
And I think, well, at the same time she was talking to FBS about how she was feeling, how FBS was feeling.  And, I don't know, I think I was jealous too of the attention she was giving FBS for something that I've never f—, wanted to feel was really justifying attention.  I've al—, I don't know, I thi—, I think I keep wanting to feel FBS really isn't feeling that sick.  Except that, she wants attention, I don't, or, I don't know, it's probably the way I'd like to be, the way I often am when I make myself sick.  And maybe FBS's doing the same.  Because it seems to me that really she's using it the way I often do, but it makes me jealous because I guess I want the same thing. 
Or, it's even more than that.  Right now I didn't particularly want it.  I wasn't feeling sick and using it, but I don't want anyone else to.  And that makes me think of my family, where everyone except maybe MLWZ, used being ill in some form or other, for getting attention.  And probably, it always bothered me when either FYC or FNA would.  (Silence)
And, i—, it really seems to just come down to feeling that, even if I wasn't getting attention, just like with FHYZ that uhm, I hadn't been seeking her attention at that point, and she might not have been giving it to me and it might not have bothered me.  But that when she began to give it to FBS, then it meant I couldn't have it, because — if I did want it — because it was being given to FBS.  And, I don't know, somehow that side of it that bothers me.  And with my mother and FNA and FYC being sick, and then getting her attention, too.  (Silence)
I was just thinking, it seems like that's true of my relationship with people in general, at parties or just wherever there are several people in conversation, or anything.  That often I won't be thinking about wanting attention from any one person unless that person's giving attention to somebody else.  And then suddenly it becomes very important that I get his or her attention, too.  (3-minute silence)
I was just thinking about how , I, I don't know if I always feel this way, although I know that it's a general , it's a feeling I've often had.  And it just was striking me that it's what's behind my having such trouble at parties with conversation and all.  But then I was just thinking that today I was certainly aware of feeling that way, now that I recall, it in the faculty room.  Especially with one teacher who was giving a lot of attention uhm, to another teacher — this is a male teacher giving attention to another female teacher.  And up until I noticed that, I don't think I was particularly thinking about getting his attention for anything.  I had one thing I wanted to say to him, but I didn't really want to get and hold his attention.  But after I noticed how much attention he was giving to this other teacher, it became very important to me.  And I know it was just in competition with her. 
And then I just switched and started thinking about an incident at lunch today, when two boys were fooling.  And I was getting, one boy is a boy who always fools at lunch — and, I don't know, I was getting kind of tired of constantly asking him to settle down and all.  And uh, even though what he was doing wasn't particularly bad.  So I guess, I just figured it was easier on me and it might keep him occupied to do what he was doing. 
And then his teacher, or maybe it wasn't even his teacher — but a teacher nearby anyway, leaned over and spoke to the b—, the boy, that I know is in her room — that was involved in this other one — to stop whatever was happening.  And it made me feel very uncertain whether or not I'd done the right thing, or I'd been amiss and been lax in discipline.  And, I don't know, I know it bothered me a little at the time, but I didn't think too much of it afterwards.  But then it did come to my mind now.  (Sniff)
And it's almost as if I was thinking, or thinking I can't get attention and then, I can't do things.  (4-minute silence)
Now I'm almost back to a part of what I was feeling or thinking when I came in here.  Because I just started thinking about a group of boys playing with the blocks today, and what it might mean about their sort of social development and the reports, and what I'm going to say, and, I don't know, a kind of general feeling of confusion, or that I'm not sure exactly what I want to say, or inadequacy or something. 
ANALYST: Well, our time's up.
