TRANSCRIPT OF AUDIO FILE:
______________________________________________________________________________
BEGIN TRANSCRIPT:
THERAPIST: Hi, Susan? Dr. Choi.(crosstalk)
CLIENT: Yes. Oh.
THERAPIST: How are you? Please have a seat. (Silence 00:15:00)... Okay Susan... I see here that you were referred by Dr. Golmer(ph).
CLIENT: Yes.
THERAPIST: Okay. And uh... He did quite a, uh... an extensive medical work up.
CLIENT: Uhmm...
THERAPIST: Here, I see, he did the... EKG, EEG, and a full blood profile?
CLIENT: Right. Right.
THERAPIST: Okay, he had the works, huh?
CLIENT: Yes. [murmuring].
THERAPIST: Alright. And uh... I see, he also uh... prescribed Xanax for you. Uh, you take... are you currently taking that?
CLIENT: Ah, he prescribed it but uh, I've, I'd rather not take anything like that.
THERAPIST: Uhmm(crosstalk). Okay, alright, but you do have it? It- it, available (inaudible 00:51:01)?
CLIENT: Yes.
THERAPIST: Alright(crosstalk).
CLIENT: Uhuh.
THERAPIST: Okay, and I see uh... through the intake here(ph), the initial intake, we also administer the uh... Beck(ph) and ah... depression scale in the Beck(ph) anxiety inventory, and uh... on the depression scale you-your score was quite low, 70 and 8 which is a minimal and that's, that's very good. Usually we find this little bit more depression that goes hand in hand with this, but that's, that's nice, and well. The Beck anxiety(ph) inventory as you have, uh, indicated, uh, in the severe column quite a few symptoms that you've been experiencing, uh, feeling hot, uh, heart pounding and racing, uhmm... nervousness, hands trembling, uh... or shaking rather, excuse me, uhmm... fear of losing control, difficulty breathing, sweating and the fear of the worse happening.(crosstalk)
CLIENT: Uhuh.
THERAPIST: Is that, accurate?
CLIENT: Yes.
THERAPIST: Alright, good. I think I have pretty much of the demographic information here. You're uh, married?
CLIENT: Yes.
THERAPIST: How long are you married?
CLIENT: Uh... well, over ten years.
THERAPIST: Okay. And children?
CLIENT: Yes, two.
THERAPIST: Alright. Two kids, (deep breath) okay, and uh... you see, you're working as a, what... in advertising.
CLIENT: Advertising.
THERAPIST: Yeah, okay (crosstalk)
CLIENT: [murmuring] Alright.
THERAPIST: Okay, how long you've been in advertising, Sue?
CLIENT: Oh... I guess about uh... seven years.
THERAPIST: Uhuh, okay, good. Okay, and uhmm... uhmm... wondering here a little bit about, you know, how some of this has been coming about with regard to... uh... the actual attacks, uh, you've been having. How frequently have you been having this uh, uhmm...
CLIENT: Uhmm... three times a week.
THERAPIST: Uhuh... Okay. And they've been of uh... that severe proportion, that you've had described in the inventory?
CLIENT: Uhmm, pretty much.
THERAPIST: Okay, during the periods of which you had these attacks, Sue, did you, do you have any n-n... urge to leave or and have you left or,
CLIENT: Yes.
...the situation?
THERAPIST: Okay. And uhmm... can you, can you recall the most recent uh, attack or what would be a typical attack for you?
CLIENT: Well, I guess, the most recent was Thursday, uhmm... two days ago.
THERAPIST: Uhuh...
CLIENT: And uhmm... I was at uh, my office. We were having a meeting and uhmm... We were sitting around the co-conference table with sales people and...
THERAPIST: Uhuh..
CLIENT: ...managers and uhmm... discussing a particular client, that has no relevance I guess... and uh... all of a sudden I just... started... feeling [whispers] scared.
THERAPIST: Scared.
CLIENT: Scared. And uh, [whispering] started(ph) scared and, (sighs) and my heart started to, uh, beat (sigh)
THERAPIST: Uhum...
CLIENT: And uhmm... I, I got real sss-sweaty I guess and...
THERAPIST: Uhum...
CLIENT: I, I don't know, everything is sort of like, uh... runs together, I do- I don't really uh...
THERAPIST: I, I notice that... you seem a little distress when you're talking about that thing.
CLIENT: Well, I am ... I, I guess people really don't like to admit that they have a... problem.
THERAPIST: Yeah, okay. And this is really frightening to you?
CLIENT: It is.
THERAPIST: Yeah.
CLIENT: And this discourage me.
THERAPIST: Yeah... that's right, okay. [Inhales deeply] uhmm...(clearing throat)... but the first... sensation that you notice is your heart racing.(crosstalk)
CLIENT: Uhuh...
THERAPIST: Is that correct? Okay, that's- is that a pretty much consistent every time you've had it?
CLIENT: Oh I think so uh... You know I, I have really kept track, [murmuring] or kept...


CLIENT: Uhuh...
...kept uh... I-I would say I would notice that I would be out of breath a lot and uh... and after I had really completed an experience like this, I would be uh... pretty much exhausted, tired and...(crosstalk)
THERAPIST: Uhumm...
CLIENT: ...you know.
THERAPIST: Uhuh... Did, did you, did you feel the need to leave?
CLIENT: Oh, absolutely.
THERAPIST: Did you- did you?
CLIENT: Uhmm... sometimes if uhmm... sometimes, depending... depending on the situation I would uh... get up. When I first notice these things starting to happen
THERAPIST: Uhuh...
CLIENT: ...and leave.
THERAPIST: Yeah, uh, are there people in the room noticed (crosstalk) what's going on? Or?
CLIENT: Oh... uhmm... I don't know if they knew what I was leaving for...
THERAPIST: Uhuh...
CLIENT: But uh, it, it seems to subside when I get, get out of that situation.
THERAPIST: Uhuh...
CLIENT: But at the times uhmm... when I'm not able to l-leave, it's an overwhelming feeling of just having to just escape and get out of here.
THERAPIST: It must be, it must be terrible for you to sit and endure that.
CLIENT: Oh it's awful...
THERAPIST: How do you function? I mean, are you still able to exchange uh... verbally and answer questions and uh...
CLIENT: Not um... Coherently (laughs).
THERAPIST: Uhuh.
CLIENT: Not, not well.
THERAPIST: Are you appearing incoherent to other people in the room?
CLIENT: Ah-I guess not. Ah-I, I've never really heard anyone say, that they noticed anything peculiar. Maybe it's just in my mind. I don't know.
THERAPIST: Uhuh... Okay, right it, it feels like hell. That's what you telling(laughs).
CLIENT: Really...
THERAPIST: Yeah... Alright, so can we just jump back a minute? You, said it, it started with uhmm... heart- increased heart rate.
CLIENT: Right.
THERAPIST: Okay. And then after that, what happened? wha- wha- what did you notice next can you recall?
CLIENT: Well, let's see, uhmm... my heart would start to... beat and then... really pound and I would feel breathless, out of breath and... I get uhmm, my sweaty hands
THERAPIST: Uhuh.
CLIENT: And...
THERAPIST: Okay.
CLIENT: I, I would be scared to death just...
THERAPIST: Alright. So.
CLIENT: I felt going crazy.
THERAPIST: So, you're experiencing that, that's pretty typical then, it's (crosstalk)...
CLIENT: I would say.
THERAPIST: Alright, uh, let's just go back i-i-if you'd recall for a minute, you were in the, in the meeting and you were uh... interacting and... at the point at which you began experiences increased of heart rate, can you recall or what was going through your mind?
CLIENT: Uh... The only thing that, that I can think of is that uh... we were talking about this particular client and uh... who happens to be the client that I had gone for the company, uhm.
THERAPIST: Uhuh...
CLIENT: They were preparing to ask me about details about this particular thing that was going on with them and uhmm... I, I got immediately a-afraid that they were going to turn their attention to me and I was going to blow it or...
THERAPIST: Uhuh.
CLIENT: I wasn't gonna have the right answers and...
THERAPIST: Okay, so there was a lot of anticipatory thought about your performance.
CLIENT: I would say...
THERAPIST: In that particular situation.
CLIENT: Uhuh.
THERAPIST: But, y-y-you said that uh... it doesn't always happen in meetings so, i-i-can you give me another example, uh... where(ph) it's happened where there was no particular interaction with other people or...
CLIENT: Like in the car...
THERAPIST: You've had, okay, you've had (crosstalk) (inaudible 00:08:02)
CLIENT: In the car.
THERAPIST: You tell a little bit about that. The same kind of thing happened?(ph)(crosstalk).
CLIENT: Well, re-really nothing (laughs) uhmm... I could be coming home either from uh... the grocery store or having sh-you know, the department store, having shopped, and uh...
THERAPIST: Uhuh...
CLIENT: Nothing. A-uh...all of a sudden the same kind of things which start to happen.
THERAPIST: Uhuh...
CLIENT: My heart would start to beat and uhmm... I, I had a feel like I, I had to go somewhere.
THERAPIST: 'Kay, can you put your finger again on any other particular thought that, that may have been distressing to you or...
CLIENT: N-Not really...
THERAPIST: Y-your-your husband has been a... uh... familiar ah-with what you're doing and, and he's...
CLIENT: Yes, he has... Uhuh...
THERAPIST: Is he very supportive to your work?
CLIENT: Not a whole lot, no.
THERAPIST: No? Well, tell me a little bit about that, will you?.
CLIENT: Well, I, 'course not, I can't say that this is fact again, but uh... I think he feels the sense of uhmm... uhmm... What's the word? Sense of a [exhales impatiently] what he feel's I'm going to, maybe surpass him in income, maybe surpass him in a... uh... I-I guess, they(ph), they(ph) mayb-maybe that's it. Just money part.
THERAPIST: Is he a little threatened?
CLIENT: Threatened.


THERAPIST: So, uh.
CLIENT: (crosstalk)That's the word. Thanks.(giggles)
THERAPIST: Okay. That's the big deal, alright?
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: Uhmm... Has he d- how has he demonstrated that to you?
CLIENT: By not really showing much of an interest when I uhmm... ehem... something wonderful happens uh...
THERAPIST: Uhuh...
CLIENT: ...An account or.... he just turns his back, doesn't really wanna talk about it.
THERAPIST: How are, how are you interpreting that?
CLIENT: Jealousy.
THERAPIST: You think it's jealousy? Okay. So, that... are the facts you have, really?
CLIENT: Well, uh... at first it hurt my feelings, uh... a lot, uhmm... that he wouldn't share my enthusiasm and my happiness, and uh... then it started irritating me, and made me mad and...
THERAPIST: Have you expressed your anger to him at all?
CLIENT: Not really.
THERAPIST: No. Okay, but you're angry about it inside?
CLIENT: Uhuh...
THERAPIST: Okay, uhmm... I g- I sense that's been a-a-a- a drained on you, this whole thing.
CLIENT: Hmm..very much so...
THERAPIST: Yeah, because it sounds as though you're really kinda movin' up the ladder and uh... you don't feel like you're getting much support?
CLIENT: No, what I, I do wanna share with him, you know? (crosstalk)I wanna share that with him.
THERAPIST: (crosstalk)Uhuh...(clears throat)...
CLIENT: [whispering] But he's...  he's not interested.
THERAPIST: Okay. What happens is you progress and uh... he has more of this reaction.
CLIENT: What do you mean? What happens?
THERAPIST: What's- what's gonna happen with you? I mean, what do y-what do you think your likely responses gonna eventually be?
CLIENT: I feel trap. I feel like uh... he's not allowing me to... experience what I, I feel I've earned and what's due me, and what I want. And, and uh, on the other hand, I... I just don't wanna jeopardize on marriage. I don't want to, uh...
THERAPIST: Uhuh. But is he open to talking about it?
CLIENT: Not really.
THERAPIST: Okay. So, I know, I guess it's safe to say that this has had some connection to you.
CLIENT: Oh.
THERAPIST: Is that?
CLIENT: Probably.
THERAPIST: Yeah, okay. Let me explain just a little bit about how we'll be proceeding in- in uh... a little on, how the intervention(ph).
(silence)
THERAPIST: Uhmm... As I see it right now the-the, the most pressing issue at hand is-is these symptoms that you're experiencing and, and clearly this has been distressing to you and we're gonna need to address those up front by virtue of some kind of behavioral techniques that uh, that worked very effectively with that. Ah, we will eventually however have to get to some of the other things that-that we had discussed just a little bit ago about uh, relationship with your husband and some of the, underlying uh, issues that maybe contributing to this. But the way I work is that... first we deal with the most presenting and then we'll work backwards a little bit. Uhmm, it's important though that we get to those underlying uh, issues because uh, it works much like uhmm, th-e-e-e the analogy of the skin rash. Y-you know if you think, if you develop a skin rash and you go to the family physician. And you report, you know, you've had this rash uh, after examining you here she may kinda come up with the diagnosis that it's uh... mild irritation and prescribe uh, the skin cream that you could use topically every three times a day for a week. So, you take this skin cream and you, you use it as uh, prescribed and uh, let's say a week later uh, the rash clears up but maybe a couple of weeks down the road it comes back. So, naturally you would apply it again and keep using it and uh, again the same thing may happen. It may go away and a couple of weeks later it may show up in the same spot or another spot of your body. And at that point, you may go back to the Physician and say "Look I-you know, I've used this and it-it, it remediates it temporarily but e-e-eventually keeps coming back". At that point, he-here she may determine that it's more of a systemic disorder, and use something a little bit deeper like, and may prescribe medication or antibiotic. To go into the system to... to uh, attack whatever it is that's, that's causing the rash. If you don't do that, you could virtually be chasing that skin rash all over the place for months and months because it's a systemic disorder. The same thing applies here, uh, what I'll be teaching you are some techniques in which you can use to... control and to regulate these sensations that you've been having and learn a little bit better than manage. Uhmm, but if the underlying, an underlying issue is, a-another stressor, I mean that's gonna have to be addressed as well and it's pretty much part for the course. So we will be getting to those issues and talking a little bit about how to manage that as well and what we can do but uhmm, and for the most part that's uh, that's kind of an idea of uh... how we'll proceed. Uhmm, today is... is gathering background information and kinda getting uh, early conceptualization of what's going on with you. Uh, next week uh, we'll be taking our next session, we'll be taking a look at these some of the specific interventions and I'll be doing an exercise with you to better help me conceptualize the... what's going on with your panic attacks.
[silence]
THERAPIST: To help you understand that every body has a built-in alarm system in the body which we called the anxiety response. Uhmm, just as this building has uh, a fire alarm and a burglar alarm, we have the same kind of mechanism that a-alerts us to any kind of impending danger, of whether be physical or psychological. Any organism in the evolutional process that didn't develop this ceased to exist. Because they weren't able to warn themselves that, uh, at times of danger or an impending doom. And it's there for a reason. It's, it's the, it's the survival mechanism. It keeps us alive. You may have a tendency to catastrophically misinterpret those sensations much more than other people. In fact, depending on how you react, you may have a very uh, uh, upsetting reaction and feel the need or the urge to get out or escape and what's important to know is that sometimes the body mis-triggers, those uh, uh response even when there's no apparent danger, for a number of reasons. It could because uh, you've, you're stressed about a number of things, whether it's at work or at home, uh, you maybe becoming ill or on the verge of an illness. Uh, you maybe ready for your menstrual cycle. Uh, you could be uh, may have had too much caffeine in the cup of coffee, uh, and number of things can set that off. The important aspect here is how you interpret those sensations and what you tell yourself. Now, what are the w-ways that uh, our treatment will uhmm, uh, become effective is: number one, to-to learn a little bit about how your mind works and how you respond to these body sensations, number one. And number two, uh, again as I had stated that (inaudible 00:02:01) take a look at some of the, the precursors that, that lead you up to feeling distressed that, that, e-elicit some of this.
(silence)
THERAPIST: Most importantly is to, to get uh, a... a specific uhmm, hand on the sensations that you're experiencing at what you're telling yourself and, uh, how you respond to, and some of the sheets that we're gonna use are gonna be very helpful. Y-y-you used the Beck(ph) depression and anxiety scales to help us pinpoint it. (Yawning) Also, we have another sheet here which we called the panic log and this is a kind of a, a-a, a log that helps us just track some of the anxiety attacks, the panic attacks that you had during the week. Uh, and we do this on an on-going basis so that we, number one can really get a good idea of what's going on. Oftentimes, to try to recall this retrospectively is difficult but, uh, so we had to keep track of it but also we can take a look at how things change as we progress through the treatment phase. Uh, we'll also be giving you this uh, Beck(ph) depression and anxiety scale each time you come so we can also track your progress. But I wanna get through the panic log a little bit because that's very important. As you see on the column to left (clears throat). We have to keep track of the date and the time, and the duration the panic attacks. And next to that, label the situation that the attack occurred and specifically the severity of the attack.
CLIENT: Uh hmm...
THERAPIST: Going from one to ten. Uh, ten being the worst and one being the la-the least and a description next to that of the panic symptom and sensation experience and how you interpreted the sensation and the accompanying thoughts and images that occurred during the time of the attack. And that's very important as you'll see, as we progress. Ah, designate whether or not this is a full blown attack uh, and if not, why. Ah, and most importantly too, uh, what it is that you did, what was your response, how did you respond to, what did you do, uh, did you... did you feel the need to take medication and so on and so forth. So, I'd like you to keep track of that on a regular basis and bring that with you to the sessions as well... okay? Uh, also, uh, we're gonna be using, uhmm, a little bit of the, uh, uh, technique of breathing retraining and uh, some progressive muscle relaxation. This is also a, uhmm, an exercise that's antithetical to panic. Uh, you can't have anxiety and, and relaxation at the same time. They diametrically oppose. So, this is something that help you offset that. And we'll be using that in the next session when we begin to do a little bit of a breathing exercise that will be, uh, maybe, in a way, simulating some of the uh, the attacks. I also have some literature... for you to read through. Just a few articles that, that talk a little bit about some of the techniques that we'll be using. Also, we'll provide you with some statistics of some of the, the numbers of people that experienced this. This is probably something that's a little bit more common in you, you may have thought. And uh, it's uh, it maybe helpful for you doing some reading. Homework is a big uh, uh, strategy that we use in this type of a treatment, and, uh I, I know, I know that may be something that, uh, you frown at but it's very important to do that because it's still part of the process. Alright, so if you don't have any questions uh, at this point then, uh, what we'll do is uh, we will schedule for a next visit and uh, as I said at that point we'll begin to take a look at some of the, uh, induction exercises that we'll be doing and also remediate some of the symptoms.
END TRANSCRIPT
