Transcript of Audio File:
______________________________________________________________________________
BEGIN TRANSCRIPT:
THERAPIST: So where do you want to start?
CLIENT: Kind of had a meltdown on Friday over money. Basically there was an [inaudible at 00:00:15] kind of between my two accounts less than $1500 left and I haven't paid, well I haven't gotten the bill for rent for June yet. So I knew that it was going to be even less. And I had told my mom that I was running low on money and she was going to put more in, but it was just this meltdown because we had gone to a shop because Sydney wanted to look at inks and stuff and I wanted to look at things and I realized that I couldn't buy anything in there. And it just was sort of a meltdown because every time that I had money for things that were supposed to be fun it has always turned into food or rent. Even the $100 that my mom gave me that was supposed to be for yarn at this point has been spent on things that were either food or rent. And the money that I made, which was supposed to be fun money, and my birthday money and everything else that I have ever gotten, almost...
And so I called my mom and she told me that she wasn't going to let me starve until I let her know how much it was that I've been spending of my money that should have been spent on fun things that has been spent on rent. And, which I still have to do because I also, I told her friends all of the copays I had on my toe (ph). I stopped having copays where I paid out of my checking account with my money and so. I guess it's okay for a short-term solution; I still don't know - we need to make sure I'm not going to spend whatever new money my mom gives me on rent and actually get something for myself. So... [00:02:25]
THERAPIST: You - I've heard - you used the word supposed to. Money that was supposed to be for yarn or supposed to be for something fun. Where are the rules coming from? Who set up the rules about what's supposed to be spent where?
CLIENT: Well I'm - probably like if she's giving me birthday money she wants me to use it on something fun; it shouldn't turn into rent money except it always does unless I...
THERAPIST: How does it?
CLIENT: I put it in my account or if it's cash then it might turn into money for food and I spend it when it's in my wallet and I don't go buy yarn. Or with my bonus money checks I put them into my account. That's how it turns into rent.
THERAPIST: And you have two accounts. Are - how are they...
CLIENT: One's checking and one's savings. So, usually...
THERAPIST: So it's not an account for necessities versus an account for fun?
CLIENT: No. It's an account for savings and an account for checking. And I try to keep as much as I can in savings until I need it for checking. I mean part of it was also that I tried to going down to 300 mg of Wellbutrin because Dr. [anonymous] had suggested that, though she said that it would take a few days for it to normalize but if I started feeling really bad I should just go back up to the 450. I tried it for two days and was a mess and completely over-reacting to everything and so decided to go back to the 450 without trying it for a full few days or a week or whatever it was. [00:04:25]
THERAPIST: And what prompted you to want to taper down?
CLIENT: Well our appointment that we had had that Tuesday where she discussed the possibility of tapering down.
THERAPIST: Do you know what prompted that? I mean looking at...
CLIENT: Probably, well the fact that anxiety hadn't completely gone away, the fact that the Wellbutrin is contraindicated for anxiety, and since I can't really take anything else. And also, yes, because 450 is a lot and...
THERAPIST: Yes, well I know we had talked about the fact that Wellbutrin can be contraindicated for anxiety. But you had, at that time when we first talked about it, it had seem the choice that you wanted to make was staying on it because it was working for the depression, even though it might have...
CLIENT: Yes. I mean the tapering down was probably only going to be to 300; it wasn't going to be tapering off. But even that jump was too much for me. So I stopped. And I guess I'll see now - because apparently even a few years ago, 300 was the absolute maximum dose and then they raised it to 450. But now that's the absolute maximum dose that anyone can take ever because of the risk of seizures.
THERAPIST: Well it's a difficult spot to be in. I know you feel, you have this mix of feeling guilty about taking money from your parents for these things but also feeling quite angry when there's not enough of a cushion. [00:06:22]
CLIENT: Yes, basically all that money ever did was make it so it just was all there until I asked my parents for more money as opposed to actually going for a birthday present or anything like that. Yes. I didn't actually get to do anything with my birthday money. None of it turned into things for me.
THERAPIST: What stopped you from buying the yarn when you first got that money?
CLIENT: Part of it was I thought I was going to spend - I was very good before I went to Israel, and part of it I thought I was going to spend in Israel but I didn't really spend much money in Israel at all considering we had our ridiculously over-scheduled trip with very little shopping time. And I guess it was just well I have all this other yarn, why do I need more yarn?
THERAPIST: Is there something else you would want to have done with it?
CLIENT: I don't know. Maybe but that's the thing. I didn't have ideas of what to do right away. Anything I could think of it just seems wasteful.
THERAPIST: So that seems like an important feeling to address this time. The feeling, the wasteful feeling. You talk about having a meltdown. My guess is it's not really about the things - it's not about the yarn or the ink or the meal - it's about maybe this guilty tinged wasteful feeling and what other feelings were there? [00:08:40]
CLIENT: Anger and frustration of not having a job because I've been sending out cover letters and stuff and there was practically nothing to apply for last week and so. I don't know. And I found out I probably won't get that job at the library because it's - just because - yes, because I [inaudible] the ad and it went well, but the job is - and I knew this when I applied - the priority was going to be given to students because they want someone who could stay in because it is a student job and not a job for someone who's a completely trained, fully trained archivist. But I'm not the only non-student to apply. So maybe there's a slight chance I'll get an interview but it's very, very, very unlikely. So, and that was one of the ones I thought I had the better shot at. So I really have - and I haven't heard back from any of the other jobs. So that's part of it.
THERAPIST: So it's anger and frustration at the job, or lack of job, the job search more so than really I'm all done with my money. It's money reminding you how [inaudible] you are that you haven't got a job. [00:10:06]
CLIENT: I'm still relying on my parents for money. It's not like they've given that much money at all considering how long I went with - until needing to ask them and before that a lot of the money that they had been giving me was money that was left over from my college fund. So I've been spending very little of their money.
THERAPIST: It doesn't sound like that feels like the point, though. It sounds like you feel angry that you need to ask, not so much that it's about a particular amount. I'm sure it would feel good to be more independent.
CLIENT: And it just seems like it's not going to happen and [inaudible at 00:10:58] and I asked her if there was anything else that she thought I should be doing right now and she said that apply to anything that I might be remotely qualified for but five months isn't that long of period of time. And if my...
THERAPIST: Feels long when you're in it.
CLIENT: Feels long when you're in it but there wasn't like there was all these things that I should be doing that I haven't been doing. So, really there's not much I could be doing at all.
THERAPIST: That's a hard feeling to be, feel helpless.
CLIENT: And I have one month's worth of expenses covered in that Tara applied for that grant and she got it. I found out last week and I think it starts in July so July I will be working and getting $850, which is bad (ph) enough to cover that month's expenses. And then I'll be back to not having a job after that, too. [00:12:06]
THERAPIST: And that's through?
CLIENT: That's through the Educational Society or that's where it'll be. She got it through some state thing for the humanities or something.
THERAPIST: Well that's wonderful.
CLIENT: Except it's not, it's not more than one month. It's just one month; it's nothing. And I mean it's not even...
THERAPIST: No, it's not nothing.
CLIENT: Okay, it's a very, very little. And I mean it's a good amount of pay for the amount of hours because she put it in as 35 hours of work, so I'm getting paid $24 an hour or something I calculated at. So I'm getting paid very well so it's not even working for the full month. But that's it.
THERAPIST: That's just a short, I mean it's...
CLIENT: It's a really short thing.
THERAPIST: ...a project. You're getting paid for a project.
CLIENT: Yes. Even if she did apply for the other grants they have deadlines very soon and okay so if she got it in by whatever, June or early June deadline, the funding won't start until July 2013, so that's not going to help me out right now. It would not be a solution for this year. And those ones require funds matching anyway, so she'd also have to get the Educational Society to agree to match that amount of funding for whatever project she applies for. So yes, there really aren't - so that's not really a good long-term solution.
And the other thing I learned is that apparently experience that you have on your internships or while you're in school doesn't really count in terms of years of experience. And I wasn't sure why but just when you get your degree it magically starts counting. So the stuff I'm doing for the Educational Society counts right now. I mean I'm still going to write I have X years of experience and count my internships and put that on my resume but they don't necessarily count, well not... [00:14:33]
THERAPIST: That's considered part of your education.
CLIENT: Yes. But it's doing the exact same work that I'm doing now and the exact same work that I'd be doing if I were hired and so it wasn't like I was just putting numbers on folders or something like that. I was - it's experience doing the thing that I'd be doing and I don't know why that can't count. Maybe because you're under supervision except that most of the time I wasn't. It wasn't like I asked a zillion questions every five minutes. I processed the collection and sometimes would ask a few things about organization or...
THERAPIST: Just the lingo that they use though. It sounds that it's fairly standard how they conceptualize what's experience and what's...
CLIENT: Yes and no. The other thing is that they - this is only recently. I was only the first to have this 130-hour internships. Most of these are smaller like 60-hour internships with the class. So this was a significantly larger amount of doing the same work that I'd be doing as a professional, so.
THERAPIST: And this was Julie who told you that?
CLIENT: Yes, she told me that. And I wrote her thanking her and everything and...
THERAPIST: Good for you. Did she give you any insight as to how your applications would be sort of read and received if you put that - if you put your internship down as experience? Did she give you any thought about how they would see that? [00:16:25]
CLIENT: No, she didn't. I guess it turns out because, I don't know, because in my cover letter it's very clear. I write I am experienced in doing X, Y, Z. I did X, Y, Z at this internship. So it's not like I'm lying or anything like that. I'm definitely not lying. I'm perhaps applying for things that I have more, that require more years experience than I actually have.
THERAPIST: But you should apply anyway.
CLIENT: Yes. But it's not - but then I guess the problem is the people who do have the experience. How do you get that experience when you're...
THERAPIST: It's always tricky.
CLIENT: And I was looking on Friday at the temp agency website, which was [inaudible at 00:17:09], to see if I could apply to them. And looking at some of their jobs and they have entry-level jobs listed, and those entry-level jobs are one to two years' experience. And I was like okay, that doesn't really help me. So I don't know what entry level even means any more because it doesn't mean what it literally says. So I don't even know if I'm qualified for any of the temp jobs because it's...
THERAPIST: Were there things in your field?
CLIENT: No. Not that I saw. It was a very quick search that I did but it mostly seemed to be office jobs and stuff like that. There are things that I can physically and intellectually do.
THERAPIST: Of course. [00:18:05]
CLIENT: They're not that hard. It's just that I can't write a cover letter for something and be like oh I'm smart; I know how to do things 10 times harder than this. Printing e-mails and making phone calls is nothing; here, look at this letter that has completely perfect grammar. I can spell; please hire me. I didn't actually follow through and finish up writing, submitting to their website because I couldn't really figure out how to do it anyways. But that was a quick look because their website is set up weirdly and stuff, which really bothers me when websites don't have the things on them that they're supposed to have.
THERAPIST: It's frustrating.
CLIENT: Yes, I wasn't going to spend 10 hours looking at their website trying to figure out how to set up an account and stuff. But...
THERAPIST: Does that mean you're not going to apply?
CLIENT: It means I might. It means I'll take another look today but I just got very easily discouraged because there wasn't - didn't seem to be much on those anyway. There's nothing in my field. You don't hire temp workers to do a job that requires a Master's degree. That just doesn't make sense. It's a Master's degree, you know?
THERAPIST: Where have you also been looking? We've talked about some jobs that are sort of lower level but in the same field, at least the library job or...
CLIENT: But those - but they didn't seem to have those in the [inaudible at 00:20:04] in there but there's some that I could have applied to except they were - not with the temp stuff but with the library stuff - that were, except it was oh late nights like 8 P.M. to 2 A.M. I'm not applying to a job that's 8 P.M. to 2 A.M. Even if I got a car, I would still worry about my physical safety and it just seems so optimal. And one that required weekend hours so I looked at their website to see whether or not they were open on Sundays and they weren't so weekend hours means Saturdays. And so I was just great. I can do evening hours and I can do weekend hours if places are open on Sundays. I'm happy to work pretty much any Sunday, but this just wasn't [inaudible at 00:21:02]. And the other site hasn't posted their jobs for this week yet, either. Nothing has been posted on state's library board. When I was looking at the Library Job website they really, or their daily e-mail, they have all the jobs for the first day and then what their [inaudible at 00:21:23], and then after the list of job they have ones that are listed that week and there was nothing listed that week in antique (ph) and other places. And so I was okay, wow, there's nothing.
THERAPIST: Yes, things may be slow because of the holiday to get posted.
CLIENT: But this was Friday.
THERAPIST: Oh this was Friday?
CLIENT: Yes, it was just nothing posted that week. It was just a slow week and now I'm wondering if it's all slowing down and maybe they really are taking more jobs. And I haven't heard from Harvard yet and the application for that thing was due May 21st and now it's been four more weeks since that and I don't know whether or not that means I'm not going to get contacted at all or if... [00:22:04]
THERAPIST: You don't know and you can't make those kinds of predictions about whether you're going to get a call back or whether the job postings are slowing down because they are not useful. You don't know whether it's true or not, but we do know that it just makes you feel really anxious to think that way. The only thing that's in your control is what you apply to. You can't control what gets posted; you can't control their response to you. You've got to focus on what you actually can do.
CLIENT: And also my mom had said, when I talked to her on Thursday she said oh, you know, my cousin e-mailed her or called her or something, they talked and was saying how jobs are through people you know. You should update your LinkedIn profile, you should post to any listserv that you're on and ask if people know about jobs. And that was maybe in the old days but that seems like spamming the listserv and I don't want to piss off a bunch of people. People will post if they have job opportunities and that's perfectly fine but...
THERAPIST: Do you have a LinkedIn profile?
CLIENT: I do have a LinkedIn profile and I've even edited it, updated it, so now it has me having graduated, it has me being the consulting librarian at the Educational Society. I don't really do anything with it; I don't know how many people in my field actually care about LinkedIn profiles. Should've asked about that. But then again that conversation happened after the informational interview so I didn't ask about that. But I update it every so often.
THERAPIST: Good for you.
CLIENT: Yes. But I'm not going to post all the Jews on the listserv asking if people know about jobs in my field. It just seems wrong. And it's not like I see other people doing it. And I guess my cousin was like oh Daphne, who is also my cousin who is his daughter, who someone in her sorority had posted something about needing a job and finding a job through the sorority. And I was like okay that's great but that's not the norm and I'm not going to post - it's just impolite and considered bad form and doesn't seem right [inaudible at 00:24:40] begging for jobs. It's one thing to apply for jobs; it's another thing to ask random people who aren't even in your field and asking a whole group of them as opposed to writing to individuals, but spamming a whole 300, 500 people listserv asking for a job. It seems wrong. [00:25:05]
THERAPIST: Are there individuals that you can reach out to and let them know that you're looking on a more personal level?
CLIENT: I can't think of any who are in my field and in the area, stuff like that. I know many people on that listserv but I don't know of any of them who are employed who know people who know people and stuff. That and because to me...
THERAPIST: Maybe making use of your connections and your relationships.
CLIENT: My relationships are all kind of useless because most of them, none of them are in my field. They're all in a complete variety of fields because it isn't like a listserv based on mutual professional interests; it's a listserv based on mutual religious interests. People can have all sorts of jobs. I think it would be one thing if I were looking for a Rabbi job or something like that maybe...
THERAPIST: You would feel a little bit more connected.
CLIENT: Yes or some sort of Jewish something. But I'm not. Actually, yes, it feels really disconnected and not something that I like. I don't feel comfortable doing that. And it's just annoying because my cousin's field is tech. It's completely different. He knows nothing about libraries at all. He was the one who was like oh you should talk to the fact that these archives don't have their entire collection online. You should tell them to digitize it and you could - well, I mean this library was all the way out in Detroit and I was not going to move to Michigan. And I was like digitization requires funding. And people will digitize things when they have the funds for it and usually they will digitize something that the funds were directly given to, like digitize the X collection, or whichever ones are the most popular. And the fact that this archives at least had their finding aids online was already a lot more than other archives had. And no it doesn't make them low tech; it means that unless their collections are unique they're not going to spend all these resources on this thing that maybe one person might be interested in. No, it doesn't work that way. [00:27:37]
THERAPIST: How do you actually respond?
CLIENT: Well I never responded to his e-mail and I saw him a few weeks later when he gave me a ride to that funeral that I had in February and I basically explained to him in nicer terms about archives need money to digitize things. And they digitize things that are most popular. And if you want something digitized, you could perhaps offer to fund the digitization of their collection. But otherwise they're not going to just go and spend their resources to scan something for you considering you're not even paying to view their collections. Which I guess he eventually got, but he said [inaudible at 00:28:34] they should digitize them and the future, blah, blah, blah. That also requires software so if you want to make - you need - or hardware, really. You need good scanners if you want to put something up that's actually worth having on the Internet, that you can read what's been written and all that. So, yes, it might be the future but it doesn't mean that all these archives have the ability to just jump into the future. And it wasn't something that I was going to work on anyways because it's all the way out in [inaudible at 00:29:09], it's not near whatever and not centralized and...[00:29:13]
THERAPIST: You're thinking about it in a lot of detail and...
CLIENT: Because he had written to me about it. But I mean it's sort of like it could apply for any archives. Just in this case it was a specific relative of his that was in this collection that he wanted to know more about and oh it turns out, yes, [inaudible at 00:29:31]. I also told him what would be cheaper and stuff would probably be find someone at a local university and hire them to go to the collections and get the information for you. You wouldn't have to pay them that much and it would probably cost less than a round trip ticket out there and a hotel to stay there and find things in the collections. But, yes, so he just doesn't know anything. [00:30:03]
THERAPIST: So a way to respond to that kind of sort of interest in direction, but you get this not just from him but your parents often give you advice and you feel like they really don't understand your particular field and your situation and it's a different strategy, being - without having to invest so much energy, because you get upset when you have to invest so much energy in explaining to someone, being able to say thank you for the ideas. It seems like it might not work in my particular field. And then not having to expend so much time and energy sort of explaining and trying to get someone to understand.
CLIENT: That through they might argue back at me. Or could it be thank you for your ideas; I'll take them under consideration?
THERAPIST: That's a lovely response as well.
CLIENT: Whether or not they see through that is another story but, yes because I would consider the first for a second and then say no because...
THERAPIST: But you don't have to tell them that you say no.
CLIENT: I'm not going to.
THERAPIST: Right? I mean you can say - I think thank you for you ideas, I'll take it under consideration is a way to not have to spend so much energy and get yourself all upset. And it's polite and you can take it under consideration not to tell them for how long or what your decision is.
CLIENT: It's just something that they think they - I guess it's because it's humanities and therefore anyone can do it and they know everything about it and therefore they can give me advice. Even though this is a professional field that requires a professional Master's degree, which I worked and I got it. And granted it wasn't the hardest Master's degree program in the world, it still is a field with its own conventions and practices and stuff and it's not the same as something else. And even now it's not like - I think my cousin was saying how his first job was he went door to door and asked people if they were looking for work. And that was, I don't know, 30 or 40 years ago. Yes, that was 40 years ago. Things have changed in the past 40 years. Maybe 35 years ago. Well, yes, because he was 15 or something and it was in the 50s. [00:32:52]
THERAPIST: Yes and so the way to respond would be wow that must've been a hard experience. Times have really changed. Because I think when people share stories like that, he's not necessarily saying that you should do exactly what he did. People like to share their experience, have someone commiserate and validate with them and for them what their experience was, and you can do that without necessarily doing what they did.
CLIENT: True, but sometimes they will go out to say you should try that and I'm like...
THERAPIST: Thank you for that idea, I'll take it under consideration.
CLIENT: Consideration. It doesn't work that way. My dad was like oh well we hire people who come and sometimes if they come and submit a resume and ask - but that's unskilled labor. It's working at the cash register or something. Skilled labor jobs are more specialized and therefore harder to come by and it's not just - you can't just go to a museum and say hey are you hiring? Well, maybe for the museum gift shop, but are you looking for any assistant curators? Are you looking for them to work in the archives? No. It doesn't work that way. [00:34:22]
THERAPIST: I think your parents are frustrated that it doesn't seem to be working for you this way either. And they're sharing in your frustration but not necessarily in a way that feels supported. It's feels very unsupported.
CLIENT: It feels like they're pressuring me to do these things that are not going to help me at all and that maybe...
THERAPIST: Right, you feel pressured rather than supported.
CLIENT: Yes.
THERAPIST: I think it's coming from a place of sharing your frustration because they can sense how frustrated you are with the process. And it would be really nice if they could share in your frustration in a way that felt supportive rather than pressured.
CLIENT: They can't because they don't know anything. Even when I explain it...
THERAPIST: They don't seem to get it.
CLIENT: They just don't get it.
THERAPIST: And it just adds to your frustration.
CLIENT: It's the whole as if the e-mail I did is the be all and end all of things.
THERAPIST: It's probably something they've heard about and maybe have heard stories about people connecting successfully and they are hopeful for you that that could be a way for you too.
CLIENT: I guess it just seems unlikely in my view.
THERAPIST: Yes, well and I think that's the thing. So for some - so it gets talked about. I think it's sort of a buzzword that people know and some feel positions are very much socially connected. And it may not be that way in your field but it's probably something your parents have heard about because you see it, you hear about it. I mean gosh the Facebook thing is all over the place. I mean, and they're trying to connect with you. [00:36:18]
CLIENT: It's just annoying that they presume to know how I feel when their fields are...
THERAPIST: Feels kind of presumptuous.
CLIENT: It is presumptuous. It doesn't work the same as if you're applying for a job to be a cashier. Maybe...
THERAPIST: It sounds like you also feels like it's condescending.
CLIENT: It is. They're like oh if you just do this one thing, you'll have a job. And I'm like you don't know that.
THERAPIST: Do you feel like I'm sending the same message that they are because I know we've tried to come up with ideas to expand your search. I'm wondering if it feels the same way.
CLIENT: Not really because you're not telling me to go and e-mail the Jews on the listserv and ask me for a job but, or ask them for a job rather. And your ideas aren't as blind and based on completely unrelated experiences, which is what they say is a - and you don't have any sort of ulterior motive of - you're not supporting me whereas my parents are supporting me. So, no it doesn't.
THERAPIST: I wanted to check in because we spent quite a bit of time talking about it and I don't want to feel like I am pressuring you in any way. I would like to try to be supportive as you're going through this.
CLIENT: Yes, it's just like I feel like I've run out of options. It's not that I didn't find a job, you know, it's been a semester and it's not been that long. But does that mean that I will never have a job? Is it time to start applying for jobs flipping burgers, which I really would not want to do and probably wouldn't get anyway because I'm over-qualified and they're not going to - or over-qualified with education and have never flipped a burger in my life. Is that true? Not, never in its real setting.
THERAPIST: Doesn't matter because that's not - I mean even if you look for unrelated jobs, that's not the one you're going to look for. [00:38:38]
CLIENT: No it's not.
THERAPIST: I think applying for an office-type job, while not in your field, would be probably more in keeping with what you would eventually do.
CLIENT: Yes, that would probably be better than flipping burgers. If there's a job that doesn't even require a high school degree then I am not applying for it unless it's a job working at a yarn store. [inaudible at 00:39:08] they usually want a high school degree for working at a yarn store.
THERAPIST: Let's think a little bit about what your goal for this week will be. We have five minutes left and I want you to leave feeling motivated with what you can do.
CLIENT: I'd say apply to some jobs but I don't even know if that's going to happen because I don't even if anything's going to get posted this week.
THERAPIST: So you have to look again to see if anything gets posted.
CLIENT: And again, and again, and again until things do get posted. I mean last week they didn't get posted until - last week they got posted last Wednesday and it wasn't a holiday. So, and I definitely can't say get a job because... [00:40:07]
THERAPIST: Because that's out of your control. So the sites that you're going to check, the number of times you're going to check can be your goal; those things are both under your control.
CLIENT: I guess, I don't know, I guess see if there are any grants that could be applied for that would come in before 2013.
THERAPIST: Well that's a good idea.
CLIENT: So that way I could - and Tara likes writing grants, oddly enough.
THERAPIST: Yes, and so I mean this is something she's done successfully too and that at least gives you a month of pay.
CLIENT: Yes, which is...
THERAPIST: So that's a good piece of research, to look and see if there are any additional grants that she can apply for. That would be a new angle.
CLIENT: Yes because she would be happy to apply for them. Once she's done dealing with the 20 million third graders that she's dealing with right now.
THERAPIST: That's a lot of third graders.
CLIENT: A large amount of third graders.
THERAPIST: What is happening in the third grade? Is that...?
CLIENT: Third grade I guess is the year that they do the school - because it's the Educational Society so she has all this programming for like this is what life was like in colonial times. Look it was actually a lot of work and it wasn't just like fun. They had to carry water and et cetera and plant things. So she has a lot of hands-on programming stuff for it. So that goes through - so she's sort of busy with that at least for the next couple of weeks so...
THERAPIST: You can be doing - you can certainly be looking for grants for her and then if you find anything be ready to present. I think that's a great goal. Why don't we end there? I'll send you off to start that and I will see you next week at the regular time.
CLIENT: Yes. [00:42:26]
END TRANSCRIPT
