Transcript of Audio File:
______________________________________________________________________________
BEGIN TRANSCRIPT:
THERAPIST: Hi, come on in. [00:00:07]
(sighs) How are you?
CLIENT: Thank you.
THERAPIST: Good.
CLIENT: I'm nervous to go on Tuesday nights because I have a class I get out of at four, to go to. I'm always like - I'm always so tired when I get here. (pause) Anyway, so last time I was here we were talking about me just not feeling very successful. I don't know, I haven't really given it much thought after I left here (pause) but basically I don't know about you guys (yawns) the way I was feeling last time was that (pause) I don't know. For some reason I've just been having a hard week or two. And I think that's been keeping me (pause) I don't know. (pause) I just feel frustrated, I guess. I just feel like I'm not doing anything right (pause) here or (pause) I don't know. I feel like I should be feeling better and all, (pause) all the time. I mean, the thing is, if I think about it real, realistically, I'm definitely going by the way that I was a few months ago. That's definitely for sure. And so I should be just focusing on that instead of (pause) focusing on the fact that some anxiety is still there, and I'm still a little sad sometimes, but (pause) I don't know. (pause) It happened just as soon as I sat down today, huh? That was quick. (sniffles, pauses) I guess I just feel like I don't know what I'm doing. Like I don't know, (pause) I don't know what I'm supposed to be doing. Like I'm just talking but I'm not really getting anywhere. That's how it feels sometimes. (pause)[00:03:13]
I don't know. Should I be having revelations or process - like am I, I don't know. I don't feel like I'm - I feel like I'm just saying the same things, over and over.
THERAPIST: Well, you're feeling inadequate. (pause)
CLIENT: So, yeah. (pause) That's all, really. Because I just don't know what I'm supposed to be doing. (pause)
THERAPIST: You don't feel that what you're doing is what you're supposed to be doing? [00:04:29]
CLIENT: (pause) It is, but I don't feel like I'm doing it right. (pause) Like (pause) I mean, everything still feels the same. It's not like I've (pause) I don't know, changed my feelings on (pause) things that have happened in the past, or people in my life, or (pause) I guess that's not entirely true. (pause)
THERAPIST: Can you say how that's not true?
CLIENT: Well, I guess when I said that my feelings on people in my life haven't, that wasn't really true. I think that I've become more accepting of members of my family, because I can (pause) I don't know, remove my... (pause) I can understand more of where (pause) not where they're coming from, but basically that anything - some of the things that happened aren't because of me or because of them. And I had a harder time with that before. (pause) [00:06:31]
THERAPIST: That doesn't seem insignificant.
CLIENT: That's true. (pause) And then sometimes I just think that I'm trying to make myself unhappy, that I keep myself down because that's where I'm comfortable, and sometimes I just think (pause) I'm not letting myself be happy, that I'm just pulling myself down to where it's comfortable because that's what I know. And then that feels more frustrating. (pause) And then I get frustrated because then I sound like a whiner. I sound like such a baby. (pause) That it - that frustrates me. (pause) [00:08:27]
THERAPIST: Did you do a marathon relay?
CLIENT: I was in a relay, yeah. My family does the Marathon every year.
THERAPIST: You could do that one as a relay?
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: That's cool.
CLIENT: Yeah, it's not a bad time. My mom's run it a few times - the full, and then my uncles and cousins - we have a few teams, so some people do halves and some do relays. I've done the relay twice, and it's fun. It's a lot of fun. (pause) (sighs) [00:09:35]
THERAPIST: I'm not sure why my attention was drawn to that at the moment, but maybe I was thinking about what your family had accomplished, and my thinking about an accomplishment.
CLIENT: It wasn't hard. It was three miles. (laughs) It was not very much, but thank you.
THERAPIST: And that's how you feel about all of your accomplishments.
CLIENT: Honestly, I don't think that I have (pause) any accomplishments. I can't really think of - like the accomplishments, the only accomplishment that I can think of is marrying Chris. That's the only thing. (pause) I just don't really (pause) I know it sounds really - that probably sounds really contrived, or I don't know, it sounds probably ridiculous. But I just don't think of anything in my life that way. I didn't... even graduating high school isn't an accomplishment because I just technically shouldn't have, I just didn't pass any classes. I was dragged to the finish line. (pause) [00:11:58]
I guess that's the problem. And then my father's like, "Well, set goals for yourself and accomplish things you can be proud of." (pause) Which I guess I'm trying to do.
THERAPIST: You've survived and thrived despite an awful childhood.
CLIENT: I don't really feel like thriving right now. (laughs) (pause) I get, I don't know, I guess I just also think about (pause) something we talked about a few weeks ago, when I was talking about me being over here, and all my friends being over here, and how I feel like because I've had a different set of circumstances that they don't understand them that I don't understand necessarily - certain trauma or whatever. But then realizing that everyone has their own set of trauma and their own set of things that they've had to overcome, has made me feel like such a whiner. Just like everybody's had stuff. And it was just this moment like, "You can't deal with this. Everybody's had stuff. And everybody's had things to overcome and had things to deal with, and for some reason (pause) you just can't do it." [00:14:15]
And so now I feel included, like I'm just in the same boat as all my friends, like you guys all had stuff to overcome even if it was, I wouldn't qualify it as significant as whatever. But I'm the only one that sucks enough to not be able to handle it, that I just (pause) And before I could assault myself that I was on the outside, that the reason that I had a harder time was because I only had time when I was different. And now maybe realizing that I'm not so different, and that other people have plenty of their own stuff... I mean, I always knew that. It's not like this huge revelation. Just reprocessing it and rethinking about it in this way that's like (pause) what might not have been significant for me was significant for them, and they've had to deal with things and overcome things, makes me feel like - I don't know, I'm not really explaining myself well. (pause) [00:15:44]
THERAPIST: Why did you stop?
CLIENT: I am just not explaining myself well. (pause) I'm going to go. (pause) [00:17:17]
I just, I'll go later, may just try a few months. I just can't even listen to myself anymore.
THERAPIST: Boy, you are especially down on yourself today.
CLIENT: Yep. (pause) I don't know, I'm like so irritated with myself that I can't think of anything to say. (pause)
I called in sick to work, so that (pause) I guess I'm feeling guilty about that. I have three sick days a year that I can use, and I had a really bad headache yesterday. And the girls were sick all week. They had a fever. And I knew I had this one sick day left that I'm just not going to be real sick to use before June. So I called in sick. And I feel guilty about it. (pause)
THERAPIST: Feeling guilty that you shouldn't have done that?
CLIENT: Like I'm taking advantage. [00:19:25]
But it would probably be good for - I think I just need a day to myself. (pause) We're going to my family's for Easter. That'll be good. So we'll see my whole family.
THERAPIST: Do you think that's one of the reasons you're also feeling badly?
CLIENT: I don't know. I don't think so.
THERAPIST: What do you think you're taking advantage of? [00:20:42]
CLIENT: With work? That I'm not sick. That I don't have a fever. (pause) So it's a lie. I mean, if I had personal days I would have taken a personal day, but it's a sick day. And they have jobs that they need to go to. So I feel bad. Not bad enough to do it, I guess. I mean, to not. (pause) I mean, realistically, I just wouldn't have been a good nanny today, when I think about it logically. Not that I wouldn't have - I just wouldn't have been engaged and fun. So when I think about it that way, I'm happy I called in. But when I think about it in the sense that they have jobs they need to go to and this is my job, I feel really bad. (pause)
I just keep thinking, "What if they'll move?" And (pause) I don't know, we were just anxious about that. I don't know. (pause) [00:22:42]
I don't know what I would do for work, I don't know how this living with my parents is gonna go, I have to buy a car, I have to buy new furniture, there's just so much to do. And so much is going to change. I don't really want to live there. But I mean, I complained about it to Chris once and that did not go well. (pause) I don't know, maybe that's just me and it's all because of the move, but (pause) I don't know. I'm just, I guess, nervous. (pause) I just don't know where any of it's going to go. I don't know what it's going to look like once... (pause) [00:24:44]
One of my cousins who's just eleven months older than me is pregnant with her second baby, continually asks me if I'm pregnant all the time. She'll just randomly... we don't really talk that much anymore, but she'll just randomly send me a text message asking me if I'm pregnant. Or she'll just work it in, and I've repeatedly told her that we're not going to go there until Chris starts his job. But I'm not - my doctor told me to be able to be on a restrictive diet for the next seven weeks before I go back to see him for my fall appointment, and part of that is not drinking any alcohol, and so I haven't been for a few weeks but I know this weekend going into Easter if I go around there and I'm not drinking, my cousin's just going to hound me. And there's going to be all this... my family's really gossipy. And so I know, I don't know. [00:25:47]
Part of me is like, "Well, just have a beer, it's not the end of the world." And the other part of me goes, "Oh, because I want to do this right for these seven weeks and my doctor told me to do it, I want to do it the right way." And I really don't care that much about it. I could just tell them that I'm not pregnant and they should believe me, but I know that they won't. I guess in six months when I'm not showing, they'll have to believe me. But (pause) it's just the whole baby, they're like blah with it. The fact that I would love if I was pregnant, and that - just dealing with that, it's like, "No, I'm not. I told you a thousand times." And just know it, it sounds really stupid but... (pause) [00:27:09]
(sighs) My dad never went to treatment. I think that he's just not going to. Which, I don't know, it's like, what's the point anymore? Just go and take a few months off and go, and it's like, "Oh, my gosh." I don't know. So I guess he said he's not drinking right now. (pause) Who knows. (pause) It's like I don't even know why we would do the whole charade. It's like, why don't we just say - why did we make this whole big thing about your trying to get sober? Because it's bullshit. (pause) [00:28:52]
(sighs) I'm annoying myself today.
THERAPIST: Yeah, you said that several times. (pause) What are you annoyed about?
CLIENT: (pause) I don't know, because I just sound pathetic and sound weak and sound whiny. I keep crying, and it's annoying me. (pause) I just don't even know what to talk about, I just can't talk. (pause) I really have no idea what it is, but I just keep crying.
THERAPIST: There are so many things you're upset about. [00:30:43]
CLIENT: Right, but I'm being such a baby about it. Just suck it up and move on, that there's nothing to do about any of it, there's nothing to do - I can't - what control do I have over any of it? I don't, so I need to suck it up, I need to move on, I need to stop sulking and whining and just deal with it. (pause) [00:31:51]
Oh, another thing. Chris and I have been (pause) we're both trying to lose a little weight right now, and so we're weighing ourselves every Sunday and we're keeping track of it, and I'm trying to lose a pound a week for the next ten weeks. And he's trying to lose fifteen pounds in that time. And so we weigh ourselves first thing every Sunday morning, and this Sunday nothing had changed. I hadn't lost a pound. I hadn't lost anything. And it just bothered me, I guess. Because I had been working on it and watching what I was eating, and...
THERAPIST: Well, it's just another version of you feeling like you're banging your head against the wall. Like you're trying and trying and you can't lose the weight. You feel like you can't lose the physical weight, you can't lose the weight of the burden of your past. [00:32:54]
CLIENT: Exactly. That's exactly what it is. (pause) And yeah, I feel exactly like I'm banging my head against a wall. Like I'm running against a brick wall. And it's exhausting, and I just (pause) just pissed. I feel like no matter what I ever do, in either situation, nothing changes. (pause) And the two go hand in hand. It's like, (pause) I'm depressed, so I don't take care of my body, and then I get chubby, and then I keep all my weight in my middle like depressed people do, and then -
THERAPIST: Depressed people keep their weight in their middle?
CLIENT: Yeah, studies show.
THERAPIST: Really?
CLIENT: Yes.
THERAPIST: I would think that it was much more based on your body type.
CLIENT: Well, the belly fat - like if you have... what is it, what's the stress hormone? If you have more of it, you're -
THERAPIST: Cortisol?
CLIENT: Cortisol, yeah. You trap more fat in your belly. I don't know, it's just what I read. It's just my stomach is -
THERAPIST: I believe you. I just, no, that's wild.
CLIENT: - constantly a reminder of my depression and anxiety. It just sits there and mocks me. (pause) It's very rude. That's what I find. (pause) [00:34:43]
And then I'm stressed, so I don't lose any weight. But I know if I could lose weight, then I'd feel more confident, and I'd be a little happier. I do a lot of stopping this whole weight thing, don't I?
THERAPIST: Well, it's just symbolic for you.
CLIENT: Yeah, trying to fix everything. (pause)
THERAPIST: Would you want to come in another time a week until you leave?
CLIENT: I don't think we can afford that. We're already kind of stretched thin.
THERAPIST: With that $50 a week?
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: Well, I can sort of see what I can do. If you could, would you want to?
CLIENT: I don't know if I - I mean, just my schedule. I would like to, but I don't know about my schedule. If it was like this time I could do that, because I get to work at about the same time, but -
THERAPIST: Well, I remember once, I think it was a 5:30 time I have on Thursday, and I usually have that time.
CLIENT: I don't get done work until 5:45 or 6. [00:35:53]
THERAPIST: I see. Well, let's - I'd rather sort of, let's deal with - I understand those things are important, but just in terms of whether you want to.
CLIENT: Yeah, I guess. I mean, at the same time, I feel like I'm not doing anything.
THERAPIST: Yeah. I know. I was thinking that sort of the problem with my bringing it up right now is that you would sort of feel that you were being a failure and say you'd better go, kind of like remedial school? You need more tutoring?
CLIENT: Yeah. That's what it feels like.
THERAPIST: I don't know if we can help you - like we can't jump over this feeling, we have to go through the feeling. Because you're feeling this way because you feel this way about everything.
CLIENT: Yeah, but I don't know what to do. Like, what do I do?
THERAPIST: Yeah, you feel completely helpless.
CLIENT: Like, I don't know how to go through the feeling. What does that mean? I don't know what that means. (pause) Like what do I do? Make a list of things that I could classify as accomplishments, to feel good about them? Like I just don't know. I'll do it, I'll do anything. But I just don't know what to do. [00:37:10]
THERAPIST: You don't feel like for now, you can live with it?
CLIENT: What do you mean?
THERAPIST: Well, I don't know if there's anything - there's certainly nothing I could immediately think of to do to just get rid of it.
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: And because it's so much a part of your experience, I think it's going to take some time to work through. So I guess when I say "live with it", I mean like, well, it's not going to go away right away, is there sort of a way to be able to tolerate it while we work through it?
CLIENT: Oh, yeah, I could tolerate it. I mean, that's fine. I've never... I'm used to feeling bad about myself. Nothing's new there.
THERAPIST: But what you're saying is, "I'm so frustrated and I can't take it anymore."
CLIENT: Yeah, but I'm not going to do anything crazy. But...
THERAPIST: I wasn't thinking you would.
CLIENT: Yeah. I mean, I'm just frustrated. That's just... (sighs) I can live with it. (pause) I'm not always this glum and down. I'm really not. (pause) [00:38:51]
Like I just don't have anything that I should be upset about. Like when I look at my life from an outsider's perspective, what do I have to be this upset about? Like what am I doing sitting here crying like this? What is there? I mean, honestly. I have a job that pays the bills. I have a home that's nice. I have a family that loves me. I have a delightful husband who has a job lined up. We have a place to live. Like I have all these great things, and I'm sitting here crying. And what is that?
THERAPIST: Let me be blunt. Are you kidding me?
CLIENT: (giggles) No! I'm not!
THERAPIST: I know you're not. But I'm saying that just to sort of - I mean, you lived the first eighteen years of your life in perpetual fear. People don't just snap out of that.
CLIENT: But ten years later, shouldn't I have snapped out of that?
THERAPIST: Probably not. First of all, I don't think anyone snaps out of anything. You - it takes a lot of working through. I mean, it's like you have the expectation like, "Jenny, just put on a happy face, please." [00:40:17]
CLIENT: Yes, that's the mantra that continually rolls in my head. I just want to have this because eventually it's going to feel real. I always used to tell myself, think as little as you can. Because that's how you're going to get through it, and eventually it's going to feel good. (pause) I just don't know any other way. I don't know what else to do. And then what I do is I sit here, I take it off, and then I cry for 45 minutes.
THERAPIST: Maybe you can just allow yourself to do that.
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: Maybe part of the problem is how much you beat yourself up.
CLIENT: Yeah, that's usually the problem, is that I don't like myself. That's a huge - that's the problem. (pause) I just don't trust that anyone else likes me - or even my husband. I don't trust the pile of things he asks me. Ever. That's not fair. It's not fair to him. That's not - (pause) and I was going to bring that up, because the main thought was that I'm a shitty wife. (pause) #00:42:44#
I'm really glad I called in sick today. (pause) In good news, our property in New Hampshire is getting foreclosed on. So we get all the money that was supposed to go to taxes for our move, which is a big relief. And we can buy a car, which is also a big relief. So that's been really exciting. We just found that out on Sunday. (pause) [00:43:48]
We were on the bus on Monday, going to run an errand, and I said something to Chris about me providing for us for the last three years. We were joking about the difference between our last move and this one. Oh, it's that time.
THERAPIST: We have a couple minutes.
CLIENT: Okay. And he said, we were just joking and having a fun time. Just like laughing, and he said something about we took all the money from the last apartment and how it was so funny because I tried to pay him back but I was making $11 an hour at this preschool and I was just... (laughing) pathetic. Because I would pay him like $50 and I would say, "I don't have any money." Like he would have to pay for me to go out to lunch. And I said, "I think I've kind of made up for that with supporting us for the last three years." And he's like, "Well, I mean, but like the first year, we used the money my parents gave us for the wedding. And then last year, I took out loans for the first semester. So, I mean, you supported us for the year - a year and a half." And it just stung. Because that is something that I actually do feel really proud of, and I think of as - not an accomplishment, but that I was the one that worked while you went to school, and I paid the bills when... you know, I feel like I provided for us the last few years. And he made all these qualifications. Like, "Well, we did this, and you know, we used the money..." And that's true, his parents did give us the money for our wedding, and we put it all towards living except the school. And then he did take out loans for living expenses one semester, when we were trying to pay for the wedding. But it just pissed me off. That's something I feel proud of, and you don't see it the same way. [00:45:45]
THERAPIST: Well, I guess maybe it just feeds into your sense of helplessness that finally you feel proud of something and then someone else takes it away.
CLIENT: Yeah. Well, and the person that I feel, like (pause) not should be grateful, but should be like - is in it with me and the one who should be - I don't know. If he said, "Oh, honey, I know, thank you," but it's really clear that he feels like he could have done it without me and he could have just taken out loans and I feel like I did this thing for us and for our family, and we didn't - we took out loans for one semester. And I feel like that's a huge thing, and I was the one who did that. I don't know. I feel bummed that he doesn't see it the same way. (pause)
Oh, got to stop, right? (giggles) All right, I'll see you on Monday.
THERAPIST: I'll see you Monday, take care.
END TRANSCRIPT
