TRANSCRIPT OF AUDIO FILE:
______________________________________________________________________________
BEGIN TRANSCRIPT:


COUNSELOR: (inaudible) client.


PATIENT: Yes. 


COUNSELOR: (inaudible) talk about (inaudible).


PATIENT: (inaudible) Are you trying?


COUNSELOR: Yes I am. 


PATIENT: (inaudible) 


COUNSELOR: Do you have some feelings about that? I usually give people about five minutes and kind of (inaudible) be lying. And then I say something about it to see if it's something (inaudible).


PATIENT: I didn't know if they (inaudible).


COUNSELOR: Uh huh. What do you need to know what to expect?


PATIENT: You look at me, but you did seem to see any.


COUNSELOR: Oh yes. Yes. (pause) 


PATIENT: I forgot all about the time I was sitting down (inaudible) and I couldn't remember if it was 10:30 or 10:45. (inaudible) 10:45.


COUNSELOR: Yes. I called down there and she apparently didn't see you sitting down there.


PATIENT: I was being very quiet. (laughter) 


COUNSELOR: (laughter) 


PATIENT: I make a habit of being quiet.


COUNSELOR: Do you? Do you like being quiet?


PATIENT: Yes. (inaudible) quiet.


COUNSELOR: Are you (inaudible)?


PATIENT: I used to be, seldom, very seldom. It used to be one of my creative outlets (inaudible).


COUNSELOR: Like what?


PATIENT: Like a creative outlet (inaudible) bored. Like. 


COUNSELOR: (inaudible) something really different for you. (pause) 


PATIENT: I've been waiting, I thought (inaudible) December. 


COUNSELOR: (inaudible) for therapy?


PATIENT: Yes. So I was going to another psychiatrist a lot. For a couple of (inaudible at 3:00). And he seemed all right. Just thinking of the last time I was there how - I just didn't seem to fit there. I don't know why.


COUNSELOR: What do you mean?


PATIENT: He - we'd be sitting there talking about what my reaction is to him and how he expressed surprise when I told him something about my money. And I was wondering why he should express surprise when he was wondering why I should be shocked at his expression sometimes. And he sat there going to this long philosophical discussion on the merits of expressing his surprise on a - and I'm sitting there trying to figure out why he expressed surprise when - why he's way out somewhere I kind of got a little insight into why I expressed surprise. It seemed like he's completely lost in relation to what I was thinking. And I could completely turn off to think, oh. And that's when I decided that I knew it (inaudible at 4:25). 


COUNSELOR: That you were out of touch.


PATIENT: Yes. Like if was going to be make any progress, it would be in spite of him instead of with him. (inaudible) 


COUNSELOR: What?


PATIENT: Maybe that's going on, again with (inaudible).


COUNSELOR: (inaudible) what?


PATIENT: (inaudible) who does. (Inaudible) 


COUNSELOR: (Laughter) (inaudible) 


PATIENT: He was - he was all right. I really feel like I could stay if I wanted to. I felt pretty relaxed (inaudible). 


COUNSELOR: It sounds like you felt relaxed but you didn't feel quite at ease with him. 


PATIENT: Yes. Just, well you see he's part of a, kind of a clinic where these - about four or five people hooked together. And originally I had one of his superiors, well I don't if you call them superior or not, but the guy that runs the whole show, and - oh did I tell you all the background about how I came to meet this gentleman?


COUNSELOR: No, you didn't.


PATIENT: Wanted them to maybe fill you in on anything?


COUNSELOR: Do you - no.


PATIENT: They just left you...


COUNSELOR: I'm hanging. (laughter) (6:12)


PATIENT: Well I'll tell you about that and go through then I'll go back. Well anyway, I was in the Baptisit General Hospital in the psychiatric ward for a week of observation. And I was liking being in there except they wouldn't let down often enough to see my girl. And so he was on vacation at the time, so he sent one of his associates in. And this guy was supposed to have - like whenever you're in the hospital like that the psychiatrist has kind of a control over what privileges you get. And he said that it was fine that I should have privileges to walk the grounds and to go out and have passes and other things. And there I go in that afternoon - to go out on a pass and I find out that I don't have any privilege after it was already agreed upon. And I got real mad at that because I was cooped up for about a week in there. It was getting to me about then. 


COUNSELOR: Yes, sounds like it was a drag to be in there.


PATIENT: Not at first, at the end it was very definitely. But at first it was - I was meeting all kinds of new people and they were really nice, most of them. And it was a new experience for me. 


All right. Two weeks previous to that, I was getting very bored with life and I didn't really know what was going to happen with me. Both of my parents were on my back all of the time because I hadn't worked for...


COUNSELOR: Your parents were what?


PATIENT: They were on my back.


COUNSELOR: Oh yes. (8:25)


PATIENT: I was working because I hadn't worked for 6 months and I had just quit school a couple months ago. And then I was running out of money. My car needed fixing. And things were all kind of pointing down. And I decide, oh I better do something about it. So I had kind of - a background, I was majoring in Criminal Law so I knew exactly what was going on weeks when (inaudible). And so I had planned a jewelry store robbery and...


COUNSELOR: Sounds like partly just for fun.


PATIENT: Yes. And partly to get out of the rotten situation I was in, which I didn't really like, living at home and having to scrounge (inaudible at 9:40).


COUNSELOR: You needed to get money, of for more than that?


PATIENT: What do you mean to rob the jewelry store?


COUNSELOR: Um huh.


PATIENT: Yes, it was for money, enough money so I wouldn't have to worry about working for (inaudible).


COUNSELOR: Oh I see.


PATIENT: And that's like - once I had that off - off of from our (inaudible) I would be - it would be - it's not what wanted though. And so I was planning this robbery. And I had it all planned and I wanted to carry it out. And the whole thing was based on a book that huge jars of water that I was carrying were nitroglycerin. And it looked very real and it was a very good bluff. Then I got down to - I live out in the outskirts of the city. And I went uptown and I got right in front of the bank and then I chickened out because I thought, well what if the bluff doesn't come over and then I'm going to be sitting holding the bag.


COUNSELOR: Got scared right there at the door. (11:08)


PATIENT: Yes. I better get - I'd better get some way to get out of that place if it doesn't work. So I went back home and there was a guy in our town, I live in Long Island and I hear he had a very large gun collection with a few unregistered, a few stolen ones, not registered or anything. So I went over to his house and I burglarized it, just the guns, he had all kinds of stereo equipment and I didn't want that stuff. I just took what I needed. And - that was on a Tuesday. And then on the same day my girl and I had a great big fight because I was always looking for a reason not to go rob this store.


COUNSELOR: You really in someway didn't want to.


PATIENT: No I didn't want to. I wanted to enjoy living without having to do something wild all the time. And all evening, my girl, I was just kind of hoping that she would be nice enough to me that it wouldn't seem like I had to do something for excitement. But it turned out just exactly the opposite she was b****ing all night. 


COUNSELOR: And you were really hoping that she'd be kind to you.


PATIENT: Yes.


COUNSELOR: And then you wouldn't feel that particular need to go out and do something crazy now. (13:07)


PATIENT: And it so it turned out wrong and we very seldom yell at each other. When we get mad we just shut up, don't say anything. Just kind of shut up and run, anyway that happened. So I left there feeling very poorly.


COUNSELOR: Very disappointed and down.


PATIENT: Yes. And then a day passed and then another day passed, and on Thursday morning I decided, well I had planned it for sometime within the next week from the time I got the gun. And so I had train tickets already, so I took the commuter train downtown and I went into the Diamond store on Broadway, I think it's on Broadway, (inaudible). So I went down in and I walked in and I had go in all piped up about how either I or someone else on the outside who had a radio control over the goodies I was carrying, was going to blow the bank up if we didn't kind of (inaudible) some money and free trip out. And - is this boring you? (laughter) 


COUNSELOR: Huh?


PATIENT: Is this boring you?


COUNSELOR: No it isn't. What makes you think that (laughter).


PATIENT: Well anyway - no because in the hospital that seemed like kind of a joke, like I was the jewel thief and my roommate was the drug addict.


COUNSELOR: What do you mean it seemed like a joke?


PATIENT: Like everybody had their own little thing and they were identified as what the - rather then being human and having done something, they were identified as being a jewel thief or being a speed freak or - everybody had their own little myths like. (15:55).


COUNSELOR: And it bothered you to be...


PATIENT: Yes.


COUNSELOR: ...just known as the jewel thief.


PATIENT: Yes, very much so.


COUNSELOR: Yes. You feel dehumanized by that.


PATIENT: Yes, to be turned into a jewel thief instead of (inaudible) on anyone. 


I went into this store and rather than doing it the dumb way and going to the employees and just getting a what was up front on display, I went to the guards and they escorted me to a room near the safe and then quietly waited for them to do something about it. Kind of like saying, "Well I'm here and I'm waiting for my diamonds. Now let's get going." And they did absolutely nothing. In fact they called the bluff that I wouldn't blow the store up with me in it. And before doing that they evacuated the store (inaudible) just about the most harmless person in there because I had put this gun inside a leather case, zipped it up, locked it and put that inside another case with the water bottles and then locked that. There was no way I could to that gun.


COUNSELOR: You couldn't possibly have done anything. It seemed very ironic that you were, you know.


PATIENT: Yes. And everyone was getting all excited, a few of them were and a few of them thought it was a joke, that I was some hippie trying to (inaudible) the establishment. And they were giving me all kinds of wonderful looks. And so anyway it turned out that the - a lieutenant from the bomb squad came over and he thought that I was bluffing so he sat there and talked with me for awhile. And he didn't really know if I was bluffing or not, but he (inaudible at 18:28) kind of guess. And I had this little button that looked like a radio control device and I showed him my (inaudible) water bottles and put them back in the case and showed him one. And then after talking to me for about half an hour he decided that he would take away my radio control device. And then when he grabbed for it, he grabbed the wrong hand. So I was sitting there with this thing in my other hand and he's struggling with the empty hand. And it seemed so funny that I was about start laughing. I had (inaudible).


COUNSELOR: It sounds like you were enjoying the ridiculousness of the whole situation.


PATIENT: It was - yes, it was so (pause) almost comical, but not funny, in no way funny because I was right in the middle of it. And so he called in two of his lieutenants, not lieutenants, he was a lieutenant, he called in, I don't know, a couple other people from the bomb squad, two others. And then they decided that they were going to take this little radio control device away from me. And I'm sitting in a chair like I am now with one hand behind my back and three people on my one hand, and they, I don't know, they said I must have been in a state of shock or something, because they - none of them could move my hand. They couldn't move it away from my chest it was on me so tight. And so... (pause) 


COUNSELOR: Go ahead.


PATIENT: You must know how to run that thing pretty good just by touch.


COUNSELOR: What? Yes I do. 


PATIENT: And so finally they decided it was in the other hand and the - two guys that came in later grabbed the other hand and took the thing away. And I had gloves on and everything. It was a really professional job. And then they cut some wire and we walked outside. And they took me down to the station and I was booked. And then FBI picked me up, took me to the federal building. And I was then custody of the U.S. Marshal where I stayed for a couple hours and then they had a preliminary hearing of some kind and my line was set at $50,000, which I thought was very funny because they were still - they still didn't know that I only had water. And they thought I was dangerous criminal because I was in Sing Sing prison for five days until another hearing could come up. And that was pretty much fine, well it wasn't at first because it was - everything was new. (22:14)


COUNSELOR: It was all pretty much an adventure...


PATIENT: Yes.


COUNSELOR: ...I think with (inaudible). Gosh it would really be fun it just didn't have any consequences.


PATIENT: Yes, it would have been. (pause) But it does. (laughter) Anyway, you didn't know any of this before? They didn't tell you?


COUNSELOR: I just knew vaguely something about you were being tried for robbery so, but I saw it in the folder that you had said something (inaudible), that's all I knew. 


PATIENT: In Sing Sing they put me in this tier with 40 people in there, most of them were 18,19, I don't know about 18, I don't think there was any younger than that, 18,19, nobody older than that though. And there were three other white guys in that tier with me. And so you always hear riot about color and what an idiot you are. Of course you had kind a distinction because when they give you your armband when they print you and everything, it's pretty (inaudible at 23:45), anyway, when they print you they give you this armband. And my armband had a red stripe on it, which meant I was really something special, I guess, this armband.


COUNSELOR: You really liked that.


PATIENT: Yes, federal prisoner.


COUNSELOR: Yes.


PATIENT: And so you walk in there and some of these guys have been in jail time and time again, and they say, "Hey what'd you - how'd you get a red armband?" And I said, "You've just got to have class, man." And none of them could believe that I robbed a jewelry store. And then news came on and something about a jewelry store robbery and they're all standing there looking at me and it's very dim.


COUNSELOR: Okay.


PATIENT: So I went to sleep and tried to sleep. And there was yelling going on all night and most of these guys just wanted to prove how hard they were to each other. So I just kind of let them do what they wanted to and stayed with a friend and sat in my cell most of the time. I had a cell alone, which I was lucky. (25:00)


COUNSELOR: So there again it was like a new experience.


PATIENT: Yes.


COUNSELOR: Interesting people.


PATIENT: Not really interesting, but they were different from anybody I'd ever heard. So I just sat in that cell and then they thought I was going to commit suicide, but I was really having a ball in there. And so they put me in the psychiatric tier. And they don't give you cells there. They just give you a bunk in a corridor and so then we slept in these bunks in the corridor, 40 of us all in the corridor. And that was pretty much fun too. I met a few people. I didn't really get to know them, but I thought I got to know them. And then I wrote them after I got out and they never answered me, so...


COUNSELOR: Kind of disappointed about that?


PATIENT: Anyway, I met this one guy in there from Brooklyn and then I met one of his friends in the hospital in Brooklyn and I still know the friend pretty well. I don't know the guy I met in jail but this guy that I met in hospital, his name's Rick. And he keeps being transferred between these two hospitals. One's a private hospital and one's Baptist General, I mean from the psychiatric ward at Baptist General and they watch him constantly in this other hospital, Bellevue  Hospital. And he had been in and out of hospitals for six months and he had - they make you (inaudible) coming out of withdrawal. He was really (pause) - his blood was pure cocaine and that was about it. And then for about two weeks he was like, you're very sick. And he was putting him back to his (inaudible at 27:36) wanted to give him his $30,000 bank account and just give him up. And I thought that was kind of funny, really, because he became so dependant on this drug when he knew before he got in to it what was going to happen. And not getting (inaudible), all that things kind of unimportant that I have.


COUNSELOR: How does all of this seem to you know that it's all over with and present that you're back home?


PATIENT: I'm in the same situation I was before I started. I don't think it's changed. 


COUNSELOR: Do mean in the sense of sort of being down and still being bored? What?


PATIENT: Yes and still feeling I would do anything to stay at one or two things a day to enjoy myself, but...


COUNSELOR: But there's just really nothing.


PATIENT: Once in a while I (inaudible). But those are rare occasions. 


COUNSELOR: But really nothing breaks - nothing much breaks from, I don't know if it's just monotony or (inaudible at 29:20) back.


PATIENT: It's not really monotony because I - I'm pretty free to do what I want and I have a little imagination when I go different places. But the places often (inaudible) because I just - I can't break my thought patterns or something. I always go to the same kind of places. 


COUNSELOR: You mean you...


PATIENT: I always have the same reaction to the places. 


COUNSELOR: I mean way you feel about them is always the same.


PATIENT: Yes. (pause) 


COUNSELOR: And what is that feeling bored or (inaudible)? 


PATIENT: No, I feel not really bored but I'm expecting more. I'm expecting like the place is going to make me enjoy something and it never does.


COUNSELOR: Like hoping that when you go there something will happen to you.


PATIENT: Yes.


COUNSELOR: Because you went there. And then feeling disappointed because nothing happens. 


PATIENT: Sometimes I even hope to get into a fight when I go someplace because it - it'll be something different. 


COUNSELOR: It would just be fun just to have conflict or anything.


PATIENT: And it's - that's really just (inaudible at 30:58). When I start hoping for fights I'm really getting desperate because I haven't really ever been in a real fight. I had a guy jump on (inaudible) senior year of high school and he outweighed me by 60 pounds and he was taller then I was and bigger and stronger. I sent him to the hospital. (laughter) He didn't like that too much but he pretty nice about it afterwards. But that's the only real fight I've ever had. 


COUNSELOR: And even that would be more interesting (cross talk).


PATIENT: That was very disappointing because I was - it was over so fast. I thought he would be more competition because I knew what he was going to do. 


COUNSELOR: So even that was disappointing?


PATIENT: Yes. (pause) For a while it was kind of exciting because I'm pretty skinny, you know, tall and skinny. And everybody says, "oh, you know, jump (inaudible) the ground." And it didn't turn out that way and everyone was sort of surprised. (inaudible) 


COUNSELOR: It just sounds like kind of running from one place to another hoping something will happen. 


PATIENT: Yes.


COUNSELOR: And just nothing does or if it does it doesn't last very long.


PATIENT: Yes. Like sometimes I feel really good for absolutely no reason. And then I think, "Why do I have to have a reason to feel good?" 


COUNSELOR: You mean when start doing the thing you start wondering what the reason is.


PATIENT: Yes. And then I almost don't - I don't feel safe feeling happy without a reason. I feel safer feeling like I want to commit suicide rather than feel happy. Because I feel safer when commit suicide because my mind and my emotions and everything is all together centered on one thing. And...


COUNSELOR: Rather then spread out you mean?


PATIENT: Yes. Or because when I feel happy then I won't - my feelings are happy but then my thoughts are kind of left out it. 


COUNSELOR: You (cross talk at 34:00).


PATIENT: ...to think. I'd have to have a reason - a logical reason to be happy and I start thinking of all kinds of reasons. And I go for drives or something. Or I say, "Well it'd be nice if I was a lone. Or..." so I find a way to get alone. And then I say I'm happy because I'm alone when I'm really happy before I started to be alone. And then the happy feeling just disappears.


COUNSELOR: It almost sounds like you get happy and then you start worrying about what it is that's making you happy or how to keep yourself happy.


PATIENT: How to keep it happy. That's (inaudible) because if I knew a reason why then I could do it again. But if I don't the reason and I can't figure it out it escapes me. 


COUNSELOR: And so it so unpredictable. 


PATIENT: My brother got a couple - well they weren't really new records but he gets all kinds of records. And I just discovered them in this pile. And so I was playing them on his stereo. I do that quite often play records. And then there's this one group I really like called The Byrds. And I found a new record. They only have five records out that they've ever made, five albums. And he already had one of them. And I didn't know he had the other one and it really thrilled me when I saw this other album. And so I played it about five times, both sides. And I ended up feeling really good. And I kind of - I didn't blame it on the album. I attribute it to the album.


COUNSELOR: Yes. 


PATIENT: And then I played a few singles that I'd never heard before that I had thought I didn't like. And then I played them again and I thought, hey I like that.


COUNSELOR: Yes.


PATIENT: (inaudible at 36:34). So I can't figure anything to keep it.


COUNSELOR: It just comes and goes on its own, totally out of any control that you have over it.


PATIENT: Yes.


COUNSELOR: What is that frightening that that's like that?


PATIENT: No, it's normal. It's not frightening. 


COUNSELOR: It's normal, that's the way it always happens.


PATIENT: Yes. And it seems that a little - just a little thing will spoil it. Like if someone says something to me that will spoil the whole thing. Or if the record skips (cross talk) then I'll (inaudible) it.


COUNSELOR: (inaudible) negative you mean, or...


PATIENT: Yes, just one little thing.


COUNSELOR: Like it's very touchy, almost breakable (inaudible) don't let her do anything (inaudible). 


PATIENT: And so I think, why am I so touchy? Now why does that affect me so much? And then I start thinking, well maybe shouldn't - I should stop being touchy and maybe it will come back. So I stopped being touchy and the only way I can stop being touchy is to say myself, "Well I don't really care." And so it starts out not being touchy then ends up, I don't really care and pretty soon that can depress me (inaudible). 


COUNSELOR: It sounds like you're - somehow you really are touchy and you can turn it off and say to yourself, "I don't care." but that there's really something there. 


PATIENT: I don't...


COUNSELOR: Why is that being touchy at all?


PATIENT: Anything can bug me, like just the way my mother walks into the room (inaudible at 38:44), I think, "Oh stupid lady." But...


COUNSELOR: You get really irritated.


PATIENT: Yes but then when I just tell myself I don't care pretty soon it turns out that I don't care anymore. I don't care about anything. I don't really care if I live anymore. And it goes so that then nothing can hurt me because there's nothing that hurt anymore. And don't know which is worse.


COUNSELOR: Yes. Certainly both of them are bad. Like you can either choose to be really touchy and have your happiness probably ruined anyway or once you start saying you don't care and just get really depressed.


PATIENT: That's how I was last night. I was seriously contemplating driving my car into a bridge abutment because it seemed like there would be very little difference whether I was actually dead or whether I would keep on living and my mind would be dead. 


COUNSELOR: Like your mind just felt - when you say dead, what do you mean?


PATIENT: Sleeping. 


COUNSELOR: Sleeping?


PATIENT: I think of a song on - there's one line in the song. It's something about a choice between the dead and the sleeping and the road that I must choose, like to be or not to be. When there's really a difference whether to be or not to be. Whether it all becomes the same and so the decision really becomes almost meaningless. It's almost assumed that it's going to happen anyway. 


COUNSELOR: But the way you're living is just really much different than being dead.


PATIENT: Yes. 


COUNSELOR: Because your mind is - when you say your mind is sleeping I'm not quite sure what you mean.


PATIENT: Well that the sleeping was what the word in the song that I heard. But it's not really sleeping. It's more a misery. 


COUNSELOR: Sort of painful.


PATIENT: (inaudible at 41:29) (pause) You notice that physical pain goes along with it sometime because when I got out of the hospital I was feeling really good because I had all these people around me that showed such great concern and everything was absolutely beautiful between (inaudible). It was that way for about a month. And then it just kind of fell apart. And I didn't - I had no, absolutely no physical pain at all after I got out of the hospital. I usually have backaches or something, but I didn't have anything. And then now the backaches come back again and sinus come back - maybe I had it but I didn't notice it.


COUNSELOR: Yes. It sounds like that is somehow tied up with being all these people around; you wouldn't care what happened to you.


PATIENT: And a lot times it was - now part of could be that a lot of these people that were around me have kind of turned around and gone their way. And it's back to where it was before. And it's actually worse then it was before because I'm more disillusioned with people than ever.


COUNSELOR: Worse because you've counted on those people not to leave you?


PATIENT: Yes. (pause) I feel kind of, not really dead but my mind is kind of blank right now.


COUNSELOR: You let things really (inaudible at 43:57) of it. 


PATIENT: No, I've been thinking so much in the past day or so about how neat it would be to be dead and I wouldn't have to wake up in the morning, that I'd stop thinking completely. And I'll think of things like I'm (cross talk)...


COUNSELOR: Like almost making yourself dead.


PATIENT: Yes. On the surface I can think of things, in fact I can think pretty neatly but it's still on the surface. It's still almost outside of me. I'm not part of it. My thoughts have nothing to do with what I do or how I feel. 


COUNSELOR: There's a whole inner part of you, which just isn't thinking.


PATIENT: It's just, you know, I just kind of turned it off.


COUNSELOR: You're turning off a switch.


PATIENT: Let it go peaceful.


COUNSELOR: Does it feel peaceful?


PATIENT: A little bit, give me a headache too.


COUNSELOR: It's partly peaceful and partly...


PATIENT: Painful.


COUNSELOR: Pain. (pause) 


PATIENT: It's not very enjoyable. I was talking to this girl and Sunday, one of the girls I met in the hospital, and she's a good friend of mine. Well I would consider her a good friend. And she was in there for armed robbery, resisting arrest, runaway - she's 17 year old runaway, I don't know what else. And she's from - she's been practically living on a combination of yellow sunshine and speed with the bone marrow (inaudible at 46:23) a few homemade remedies once she finds it hard to get drugs, which isn't very often. And it seems so critical to me how the only source of enjoyment that she knows is in a drug. And that's the only way she feels safe is when she's high. At first I kind of pity her then I kind of envy her because I don't even have the drugs.


COUNSELOR: Like you don't have any.


PATIENT: Because I'm completely like straight. I went through all the drinking hassle. 


COUNSELOR: Well it's like you don't even have one way out or one way to...


PATIENT: Yes. It's kind of - it's almost like I know that if I take a way out, like drugs, it won't be real. 


COUNSELOR: You'd know that it wouldn't be real.


PATIENT: Yes.


COUNSELOR: And you wouldn't quite be able to do it with (inaudible).


PATIENT: I would be able to endure it.


COUNSELOR: Yes, because you'd know it wasn't the real thing.


PATIENT: That's how drinking was. I really enjoyed it at first and then the more I did it the more I became dependent on it. And the more I realized how dependent I was on it so I stopped completely. (pause) 


COUNSELOR: But there's a part of you that wants to get to something really - where you can be really happy and really enjoy things rather than just temporarily pretend or something like that. (48:39) (pause) 


PATIENT: Sometimes I think my mind goes faster then I can keep up with it.


COUNSELOR: Is it going fast now?


PATIENT: (pause) Not really fast in terms of how fast I come up with things, but trying to figure out - trying to figure out, I can't really think of the words. 


COUNSELOR: Something you can't quite put into words but...


PATIENT: Trying to figure my way out of this mess and how I got into it and figuring out the reasons and what I'm going to do about it in my own mind. And then my intellect has all the answers and then it throws the answers at me and I can't take them all at once.


COUNSELOR: So you can't take them all at once, you (inaudible) you could only take a little of that at a time, or it's going too fast. Yes.


PATIENT: Yes, I'm not ready for it. 


COUNSELOR: Uh huh. But then another part of you that is more slow and - maybe not just more slow, it's something else too.


PATIENT: Free.


COUNSELOR: Free.


PATIENT: I don't know about free. It's kind of like (pause) it almost amuse - I almost view myself as being completely objective sometimes. It's seen the good and the bad and (pause) kind of calculating where I'm going to fit in, what I'm going to do. But it usually turns out that it - the more objective I seem to myself the more I see the bad instead of the good. The bad like overwhelms the good. (51:30)


COUNSELOR: And then you get a (inaudible).


PATIENT: And I'm really afraid I feel like it's kind of useless.


COUNSELOR: Hopeless.


PATIENT: To even try.


COUNSELOR: The bad in yourself or what's going to happen to you? Or what do you mean?


PATIENT: Like the bad around me, the bad that affects me. On - like just all in little negative influences, like I get bugged at traffic lights sometimes. 


COUNSELOR: So you - it's kind of like what part of what happens there you can just start to get angry at lots of little things. 


PATIENT: Yes. Yes I'm just a selfish brat and I want everything my way. But my mind isn't ready to accept that either. 


COUNSELOR: You mean willing to accept the fact that you want your own way?


PATIENT: Yes. I mean that maybe I'm a selfish brat.


COUNSELOR: Well do you kind of - you suspect that you are maybe?


PATIENT: Yes, but I'm not going to admit it right now.


COUNSELOR: You don't want to be (laughter). (pause) The way you say that selfish brat sounds almost like that's something someone is saying to you.


PATIENT: It's something I said about other people.


COUNSELOR: (inaudible at 53:12) 


PATIENT: And that I've heard and said about different people. It's never really been said to me in those words and other words, something (inaudible). 


COUNSELOR: But you're sort of worried that really applies to you.


PATIENT: I can't see any other way to be. 


COUNSELOR: Not really you.


PATIENT: If I am that way there's nothing I can do about it because (pause).


COUNSELOR: Maybe I just am that way.


PATIENT: Yes. (inaudible) are. I used to have a big thing about controlling my thoughts about a year ago. Well I could - I had my thoughts so disciplined that I could do anything with them. I completely turned them off or I could put them on a problem in Physics and have it solved in half the time anyone else could. And I - it was almost like I was becoming a machine. Maybe if I said (inaudible at 55:03).


COUNSELOR: You got really depressed because you were just turned into a machine.


PATIENT: Yes. And then when I think about trying to change myself now all it comes out is the same way. I would be trying to control my thoughts and it wouldn't work because I would feel worse instead of better. 


COUNSELOR: So you're saying now what I want to do is just partly to just see what I really am if I don't control it.


PATIENT: I don't really know. I saw a movie last week called "Getting Straight" - two weeks ago. And that movie really hit me hard because there was a guy in there and he was in school and he was having all kinds troubles. And it got to just about the low point of his life where everything seemed to be falling out. He had two weeks to go to get his masters, that was like his big goal and he ran out of money. His car blew up. His landlady locked his books in his apartment because he couldn't pay two months rent. There was no possible way he could get a job because he had so many classes. And then on top of it his superior teachers, or whatever you call him, were bugging him all the time. And then his girlfriend told him where to go. And someone came up - I think it was, yes it was his girl, and she said to him, "Please help me." And says, "I can't because I've been completely drained. I have nothing to give." I felt really good after that movie because the movie turned out good. And I was very happy. And then after about an hour I started thinking, that's how - that was almost exactly how I felt but I was just afraid to realize it. (57:59)


COUNSELOR: Which way was the way you felt?


PATIENT: I felt completely drained.


COUNSELOR: Completely drained. There's so many things that happened to you. Noting to give (inaudible) too?


PATIENT: I felt empty, completely empty. It wasn't really the things that happened to me, a little bit that, but just the way I felt about things. Everything seems so useless. (pause) Like for instance I live in the outskirts of the city and I can't stand the city. I hate it. I hate the air and I hate the noise and everything that goes with it. And I would give almost anything right now to live 45 miles away from a city, away from the limits, just way out in nowhere. But I can't do that right now because I'm on Valium. And that just, the whole - it almost seems oppressive, just the environment I live in. And it's not - I don't think it's because everybody's screaming pollution or anything like that. But I do notice that, like when I come out - leave my car outside for four hours. I come out and there's scum on it. And it's supposed to be beautiful suburbs. I get it. But can leave it in the (inaudible 1:00:11).


COUNSELOR: So is that like as long as you have to be in this kind of environment, which is so bad in so many ways it just seems useless. That's part of the...


PATIENT: Yes. I wonder really what is the purpose of all this. Everybody is running around trying to make money, cutting each other's throats. (pause) 


COUNSELOR: Sounds like... huh?


PATIENT: Boy am I tired.


COUNSELOR: You're tired?


PATIENT: And I don't want any part of it. That's just one reason I think I tried to rob that store. I didn't want any part of this entire civilization. I just wanted to have my Swiss Bank Account and monthly check in. And I wouldn't have to worry about anything.


COUNSELOR: You didn't want to be at all connected with all this?


PATIENT: Right.


COUNSELOR: Money grabbing, selfishness I guess, whatever. 


PATIENT: The (inaudible at 1:01:31) (laughter) 


COUNSELOR: Just like to get away from it all. 


PATIENT: I mean sometimes I think that that jewelry store robbery was almost like a last resort, rather than commit suicide I would rob a store, just to get back at all of this, rather than...


COUNSELOR: And not (inaudible).


PATIENT: Rather then take it out on my self, I would take it out on the store.


COUNSELOR: Take it out on someone else. You know, really it was a way of showing them what you thought of them.


PATIENT: Yes. I would be hurting anyone but yet I would be taking their most precious symbol away from them.


COUNSELOR: Which is money?


PATIENT: Yes. 


COUNSELOR: So you really felt like getting back at them.


PATIENT: Yes and then I blew it. I blew it because I didn't follow my own plan.


COUNSELOR: You didn't somehow - when you say you didn't follow your own plan...


PATIENT: Well see everything was planned from the time I walk in the store to the time I deposit the money, two million dollars in Switzerland. It was planned down to the minutest detail with safety valves all through it. And I blew it on the first one. I didn't take out the safety valve. I didn't use the bluff properly.


COUNSELOR: And Henry that you're not sure why you didn't?


PATIENT: I don't really know why I didn't. I think that those poor bankers sitting there cringing at a couple bottles of water. And I was sitting there shaking, putting on a real beautiful act, that it was really nitrous. And it was so - it wasn't funny. It was so different than I expected it to be. And I was just getting involved in how different it was rather than doing it. (1:04:09)


COUNSELOR: Getting involved in what the experience was like.


PATIENT: Yes. I blew it, so that kind of cuts one down. 


COUNSELOR: When you said blew it, it doesn't sound like - I can't quite tell whether you're terribly sorry you blew it or...


PATIENT: I don't really care how I blew it.


COUNSELOR: Yes. That's what I thought. (laughter) 


PATIENT: Because now I kind of realize that I can just say, "To Hell with you" and in society without having any money, although it's a little bit harder but it's still possible. I wish I had realized it before I started. (inaudible) (pause) 


COUNSELOR: Well it sure sounds like you have a lot of feelings bouncing around.


PATIENT: About what?


COUNSELOR: A lot of feelings inside bouncing around all over the place.


PATIENT: It's (inaudible).


COUNSELOR: Yes. That's what I thought. I'm afraid we're going have to stop. It's 10:30.


PATIENT: 11:30.


COUNSELOR: 11:30, you're right. Would you like to come in twice a week or once a week?


PATIENT: Twice a week is fine.


COUNSELOR: Okay. Fine. How about - how is Wednesday morning at this time.


PATIENT: Anytime. I'm free anytime. I just - I got fired off my job last week, so I'm open for any time.


COUNSELOR: Okay, how about Wednesday morning at 9:00?


PATIENT: I'll (inaudible) 9:00.


COUNSELOR: Afraid you won't remember it?


PATIENT: No I'll remember it. I even write it down, but then I skip the receptionist office. (inaudible) 


COUNSELOR: When you go by down there, as you walk out each time, then tell her that. If you go down and tell her that you're coming Wednesday at 9:00. 


PATIENT: Is that all.


COUNSELOR: Uh huh. That's all.


PATIENT: Okay.


COUNSELOR: The only other thing I wanted to say because got into your other - if you do want to you know, if you have any feelings about me being blind that want to talk about, feel free to talk about that. I say that because some people don't feel free sometimes. So if you do experience this, go ahead.


PATIENT: All right. 


COUNSELOR: Okay. Yes that's it. 


PATIENT: Okay. 


COUNSELOR: And so I'll see you on Wednesday then.


PATIENT: All right.


COUNSELOR: Yes.


END TRANSCRIPT
