<font size="4"><b>Chapter IV</b></font>

My sorrows mounted. The realization of my father's
death struck me with full force. I had recently entered into
my eighth year of schooling and, with my vowed dedication
to propel myself, I was doing fairly well. Then, I
began to brood. My brooding served to distract me, and
my grades began to fall off.


No matter how hard I tried, I could not suppress the
thoughts of my father's death and suffering. I could see, as
I sat quietly in the classrooms, his pain-filled face. Often,
out of my deep, sorrow-filled reminiscent state, I would
hear some teacher's reprimand.


"Maybe it would have been better if a certain student
stayed home today," some teacher would say.


There was, no doubt, a great deal of truth in her
statement. If only there had been someone there to have
dealt with my disturbed emotions. It is said by many experts
that the adolescents' most trying years exist when
they are between the ages of fourteen and seventeen. It is

[p. <i>46</i>]

This was a crisis in which I needed kind treatment and
understanding. I received neither. My mother was too involved
in her duties to provide; then, too, how was she to
correct, in a short time, the mistakes that had been years
in the making?


The symptoms of a physical or emotional disturbance
were reflected in the sharp and immediate decline in my
grades. Many years later, as I sat in the dark, damp corners
of a mental institution, I clearly realized this. What
thanks I would have given to my predecessors (parent or
teacher) who would have recognized and offered solutions
to remedy my predicament. It seemed that no one cared.


No doubt the era, too, contributed to the condition of
a great many of today's misfortunates. Little attention was
given then to a child's disturbed emotions. I recall that
reasons for my emotional upsets were often misinterpreted.
One such time stands out in my memory:


Prior to my father's death, I took a great interest in
gymnastics. In my early years, I was influenced by such
great gymnacists as Barney Oldfield and others who were,
naturally, my movie idols. I thrilled at their skill when
they dived over tall hedges, or through glass windows into
a forward roll. I never got around to diving through a glass
window, but I became rather adept at diving over other
objects in a forward roll. Through a method of trial and
error, which usually ended with bruised hands, forehead
or strained neckresulting from landing on my headI
became a natural.


I took my tumbling skills from grammar school to

[p. <i>47</i>]

The incident that I refer to as a misinterpretation of
the reasons for my emotional display, following my father's
death, occurred during my second year in junior
high school.


In view of all the adversities I had encountered up to
that time, my general attitude was shy but pleasant. As a
result of my kter experience with experts on the subject,
I learned that they theoretically believed the reason for
my development of these particular attitudes was extremely
psychological. The testimonies and submission of
the diagnostic materials of four noted psychiatrists later
lent support to this theory.


It was their opinion that my extreme shyness stemmed
from a developed distrusta result of parental discord
and personal adversities. My basic pleasant attitude, they
attributed to my need for love and affection. My personal
adversities and self-sympathy, a result of the former,
caused me to seek in someone else the feelings that I felt
I had been denied.


Following my father's death, I became sullen and indifferenta
change in my basic general characteristics.
The interest that I had in gymnastics was replaced by a
sulky attitude and a feeling of persecution. Whereas I
used to look forward to my gym classes with exciting
vigor, I now lingered in the halls, on my way to class, with
marked disinterest. If I had been a student in today's
educational system, my actions would have warranted investigation,
but in keeping with the system of those times,
none of my educators seemed concerned.


In a mood of stubborness and depression, I walked

[p. <i>48</i>]

In all probability, my sullen attitude had been noticed
by my gym teacher, whose next class I was to attend. The
bell had rung, signalling the clearance of the halls. What
I did next was not deliberate; neither did it deserve the
treatment I received. As the bell commenced to ring, several
students lined up at the water fountain for a drink. I
was at the end of the line. As was customary, the gym
teacher was standing at the door, which led to our large
auditorium. He was waiting for the last student to come
through. When I finally got to the fountain, the bell had
ceased to ring. What happened next furnished me with
fuel that fed the fires of my developing hostilities over a
long period of time.


Just before I bowed my head to drink from the highly
perched drinking piece, I glanced slightly upward to recognize
in my gym teacher's face utter disgust. I did not
sense his boiling rage. For a period of approximately two
hours, that was all I remembered. I lay unconscious, my
conscious mind void of the slightest recollection. The cells
of my brain had been jarred into a state of total silence.
My teacher's savage emotions had burst their bounds.
Once again, an adult had failed to do his job. With brutal
force, my gym teacher had pushed my face into the fountain.
My nose was broken. It hurt terribly.


"If I only had someone to protect me," I thought to
myself.


The pain of my broken nose and my reawakened sense
of self-pity combined to make me suffer miserably.

[p. <i>49</i>]

"I will, some day, make him pay for that," my developing
hostilities said.


I remember, too, the hate-filled faces of the white male
teachers who stood over me as I slowly regained consciousness.
Into me entered an added degree of fear. I
sensed the intense hate of the few educators present.


"You didn't have to do that," I pity-seekingly said
through my bloodsmeared, swollen lips. "If my father was
living, he would make you sorry for this," came my next
rueful remarks.


Through my emotional hurt and physical injuries, I
was wishfully reminiscing. The frustrated wish of the
statement sickened me.


"Learn to do what you are told," my intolerant tutors
said angrilly. They had failed as educators to recognize
my growing anxieties and sudden reticence. They had
dealt ignorantly with the changing processes of an adolescent,
in a time of trouble. They had misinterpreted my
basic reasons and purposes.


Before starting home, I had already accepted the feeling
that nothing would be done about what had happened
to me. I felt listless and lonely. The sight of my bloodspotted
shirt maddened me. The seed of hate had been
firmly plantedplanted in a soil primed for fertile growth.
And grow it did.


I entered the house in search of pity and comfort; I
knew I would find none. The art of tender care was a long
lost art, as far as my mother was concerned.


"What have you been into?" she asked with a slight
hint of disdain in her undisturbed voice.


"Look at that shirt," she said. "I will have a time
getting all of the blood out of it."


In a desperate attempt to live up to my fixed attitude,
I started slowly to explain, fighting back my onrushing
emotions. The thought that possibly the incident would

[p. <i>50</i>]

"Just as I thought," I said to myself, retreating into the
comfort of my persecution feelings. My convictions had
been true.


"I knew that nothing would be done." I reaffirmed my
maddening thoughts.


At this point (I was 15), the thinking and feeling part
of me had become an agonizing, hate-filled mess of nerves
and emotions.


"I hate that white man for what he done to me. He did
that to me because I was colored," I continuously thought.
"When I grow up, I will remember him. I could kill him!
I could kill him!"


Social hate was now added to my basic disturbed feelings;
I felt that people were against me. Sincerity had
become my general attitude; growing anger, my obsession.
My developing instincts were comparatively animalistic.
I acquired a quiet ferocity. A being of intellect, I
harbored dislikes, and struck out with fear-filled viciousness.


Out of my slowly progressing mental distortion, all the
characteristic ingredients of a schizophrenic were being
assembled. My antisocial attitude, together with my developing
lack of temper control and mounting suspicions,
leaned my mind's pattern toward the pattern of a paranoid.
Time was the only remaining factor, which would
decide whether I would be a threat to myself or society.


A disorder, physical or mental, is not an immediate
thing. It is the continuation of abuses and vexing additives

[p. <i>51</i>]

As I recall, definite symptoms of my developing disorder
were intermittent. My successful efforts to keep
intact the reasoning powers of my intelligence were relative.
There were several incidents which occurred in the
five years following my father's death which support my
present course of reasoning. For the benefit of a clear
picture, I feel this reference to be appropriate. It is an
account of a distorted sense of reasoning in a reality situation.
My sense of reason defected as a result of a society or
my parents's lack of ability or will to pass on to me information
of vital basic principles, the fundamentals of an
orderly spirit.


My interest for academics decreased as my fears, parental
and social, imposed apprehensions (which had now
reached megalomaniacal proportion) and anxieties, represented
through actions the better portion of my inner
thoughts. I could not concentrate. My disturbed senses
would not absorb instruction. The answer to my complex
problem did not lie in simple academics.


Imposed upon me was the idea that I had something
to prove. Because of my short patience, I thought of only
having a short time to prove it in. Circumstances were
closing in upon me. I needed moneyposition.


A year and a half later, after several futile attempts to
absorb the feminine and masculine endings and the genitive

[p. <i>52</i>]

My mother, after the death of my father, and with the
help of the earlier-mentioned benefits to assist her, had
become extremely popularespecially among the fortune-seeking
single men of the community. The men who were
attracted to her were, in my opinion, unworthly of her
qualities. I still stand firm on these early convictions. Time
has proved me correct about them. I vehemently resented
them. One could say that I still had a vivid incomparable
father image which left me prejudiced. Be technical, if
you wish, my mother's suitors, I could not comfortably accept.
My sullen and indifferent attitude, coupled with my
obvious acts of objection and disapproval, was a constant
challenge. I produced as much opposition as I could.


Mother was extremely attractive, and, without a
doubt, had been deniedas a result of matrimonial
boundsthe proper dispensation of certain drives and
emotions. I could not, at present, dare say that this rendered
her helpless before her onrushing tide of pursuers.
I would rather say that it left her a free womanfree to
dispense with certain natural drives and motivations. I
realize, today, that she handled the situations respectably
and in accordance with the fine basic qualities she possessed.

[p. <i>53</i>]

One of the disturbing individualsunmindful of all
that was going on inside of meone day made the awful
and almost fatal mistake of threatening to do my mother
bodily harm. The very thought of his remarks stirred a
savage rage in me. My apprehension, anxiety, love, and
hate could not accept and interpret in peaceful spirit his
belligerent proposal. If, because of kind and gentle care,
I had not been seeking an object of projection, my senses
would have perceived and minimized my emotional reactions.
But, my taut nerves and emotions could not possibly
modify the existence of the irritating situation. My
body's functional system could not handle, without discomfort,
the emotionally-caused chemical changes. Cold
chills raced through me. Out of my young, warped senses
of reason and judgment, violence was the only answer to
this vexing admission.


"If you as much as harm a hair in my mother's head,
I will kill you! I will kill youl" I exclaimed through my
tightly-clenched teeth, my voice mounting to an uncontrollable
screeching tone. I then ran from the room and
tremblingly returneddirecting a rusty, five-shot pistol
at my tormentor.


As I stood there holding the gun, I suffered briefly an
unusual experience. I had no concern about the immediate
reason for my standing there. The threat which motivated
my violent reactions was now forgotten. The man who
stood before me was an object to use to prove my vows
and dedications.


"My father would want it this way," I irrationally
thought.


"Mother will know that I love her." That was my next

[p. <i>54</i>]

"I will shoot him again, again, and again," I calmly
thought. The man stood silent and still.


My brief departure from reality was interrupted by my
mother's soft, reassuring voice that no harm would come
to her. The danger had passed. I felt remorse for my lack
of temper control, but I felt no regret for my surly provocator.
He still remained a threat.


My mother's response to my dedicated loyalty
seemed unsatisfactory. My dissatisfactions and hostilities
mounted.


"Someone was to blame," I told myself. "My mother's
suitor. Why not? Isn't he trying to take my father's place?
I hate him ! I hate him! If I were a little bigger, I would
show him. I would beat him with my fistsunmercifully."


The consuming passion of hate was now a familiar
thing. Within my subconscious, its "retarding roots" had
found fertile ground in my many experiences with fear,
want, and anxiety. They were growing wild, like weeds,
forcing aside and killing out the flowers of vocation. As a
result, I was being shaped, character-wise, into a repulsive,
unlikeable person. I did not care; for I knew no
better. I felt that I was right. I was, indeed, in a pitiful
state to be turned over to society, an experience that was
shortly to come.


My inner drives and motivations strengthened my
physical determination. I had no mental powers to exercise.
My brother, who was much larger than I and two

[p. <i>55</i>]

My mother stood as much of my hatefulness as she
possibly could. Finally, one morningduring a period of
lost emotional control, which included my questioning her
virtues and purposesshe asked me to leave.


The pain I suffered can hardly be explained. I can
only say that my twisted feelings and emotions were
numbvery numb.

