Transcript of Audio File:
______________________________________________________________________________
BEGIN TRANSCRIPT:
CLIENT: (two sighs)
THERAPIST: Hello.
CLIENT: Hello. (sigh) So, yeah I don't know, I um, my [roommate's] (ph) going away for like, like a week or so. Which, I don't know, like (pause) I'm a little bit looking forward to it because she's, I don't know sometimes gets very negative and like I'll come home and she'll be really angry about things and complain um when I'm more like, I just wanna sit down and not um
THERAPIST: (voices overlap) Right.
[1:00]
CLIENT: and so that was, it was kinda good, like, and I come home and it's just me and the cats which is kinda nice, um and it's really quiet which is nice um, but my problem is that, like one of the reasons why I haven't lived on my own, or do much on my own, is that I'm like 'Well, having someone else around regularly kinda keeps me from being like, helps keep me on like, 'Maybe you should, maybe you should put away your dishes, don't leave your dirty clothes everywhere, all over the house' so.
THERAPIST: Sorta civilize you in a way?
CLIENT: Yeah, it's like, it's sorta the same way in which, um weirdly like, I like having pets but I have to remember to, I have to get them food, I have to do that sorta thing.
THERAPIST: (voices overlap) Uh huh, yeah.
CLIENT: So I'm like 'Okay there's this other person here I have to, whatever. Wear my clothes or I don't know.'
[2:02]
Although we both wander around in T-shirts and underwear so it's not really (laugh, both speak inaudible) Yeah but you know like, 'Okay gotta do some things' and it's like someone else like sort of like, [she's leaving me all alone] (ph) I'm like 'Oh right I I should [do the mail] (ph) too or —
THERAPIST: Right.
CLIENT: Like whatever. So Saturday I just ended up not eating any dinner till ten.
THERAPIST: Oh God.
CLIENT: Which was, yeah I just, I was stressed and I didn't feel like eating, which is, so by eight o'clock I'm like 'Hmm. I should order some delivery food 'cause I'm probably not gonna get any further with this.' And then I just didn't wanna eat it and didn't wanna eat it and then just, I made myself. (sigh) So that was less than ideal. And then Sunday I was kinda like 'Oh right, I'm gonna, I thought I'd maybe make marmalade or maybe I would do some sewing, just kind of like (pause) do something creative, and then (pause)
[3:11]
...one of my friends e-mailed me 'Have you just sort of,' (sigh) I don't know, he's (pause) he's been in a relationship for a while with this person, Jessica, and uh, their relationship's been going downhill and he's been kind of ignoring it [in favor of] (ph) finishing his dissertation, which should be done in about six weeks. And a couple weeks ago, he suddenly called, like he suddenly texted me and was like, ' Can I come about now? To, can I come over like sometime soon to talk?' It was like a Friday night.
THERAPIST: Yeah.
CLIENT: I was like, Yeah. What the (laughs) I mean, Yes if you're texting me like at nine o'clock at night —
THERAPIST: Right.
CLIENT: ...and you, he always went to bed early, I'm like 'Come over, what's going on?'
THERAPIST: Yeah.
[4:00]
CLIENT: No wait a second, it was a weeknight. It was even crazier. So like middle of the week. So he was kind of working his way around to asking if maybe his girlfriend was sometimes (pause) unkind. And I was like 'Yes, actually, she yells at you a lot. And is jealous of all the success' and is mad at him about it and all these other things. He's kinda like 'Hmm' like he had 40 bazillion excuses. And like there's things that like I've never really said to him before 'cause I didn't really think it would go anywhere. And the next day a mutual friend was like, 'Karen what did you do? He suddenly realized that she's mean.' 'Cause like from my point of view we had this like, we talked like three hours and he still seemed to be like, 'Well but she's working out her issues and this and that, it's like, Hmm.
[5:03]
Just because she's working out her issues doesn't mean she can yell at you. And also, turns out that, they were sort of grabbing back and forth over something, and she (pause) maybe struck him maybe not, it was kinda, 'cause they were already grabbing at something and he got really upset and said 'You can't touch me like that, don't do that.' And her response was to kind of tough up and be like 'What are you gonna do about it?'
THERAPIST: Doesn't sound good.
CLIENT: No. No it really doesn't. And he, of course, he didn't tell me that part. Um, so Sunday he e-mails me and is like 'Um I just remembered, I just realized I had a serious like dissociated, I lost the sense of time one weekend when we were all at a party and I'm kinda having flashes of remembering just being really freaked out and I don't know why and I was wondering, could I come over?' I'm like, Yes.
[6:08]
And then, he's also picking up his girlfriend from the airport that day. So he's like 'Could, do you know anyone who can do this for me? And then can I come over afterwards?' I'm like (pause) 'Yes, you can totally do that.' Um, and then we spent most of the afternoon carefully not talking about any of it. Like I poked him a little bit about it, at one point I was like 'So (pause) um he hadn't, he hadn't really (pause) it was this weekend that we both had, it was an event that we both had been at (pause) and I had noticed that his girlfriend had been sort of possessive and kind of controlling, but I was like 'Well, you know' (pause) Like it wasn't —
THERAPIST: Sorry, wait, it was the same weekend as the (voices overlap, inaudible)
CLIENT: We were both um all of us were at an event.
[7:07]
THERAPIST: During which weekend? The time (voices overlap, inaudible)
CLIENT: It was like, uhh, a couple months ago.
THERAPIST: And -
CLIENT: Actually no it was a year ago.
THERAPIST: ...and that's the event that he's having flashbacks from? Or —
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: OK, that's the part that I -
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: (inaudible, voices overlap)
CLIENT: Yeah no it was, I wasn't saying it very well. Um, so (pause) he doesn't remember like a good chunk of the weekend really very well. It's all very hazy. He does remember sort of getting really anxious and feeling like, like out of his body and kinda dissociated during this party and (pause) like very aggressively helping to volunteer and do some things, for the party and one of his friends said to him afterwards like 'You know, like during that party there was this moment where you were getting kinda handsy and you had an ass (ph) beforehand and that was heading (ph) to me' and Colin had no memory of it.
[8:07]
Like he remembers, he's like 'Oh, I remember my hands being on you but I don't really remember how they got there, why I did that, or like if I asked.' And he apologized. And for some reason, it just was coming up for him today, or yesterday rather, um (pause) so.
THERAPIST: Maybe 'cause she was coming back?
CLIENT: Yeah I guess, it, I don't know. It's also that he's under this time pressure to, he's trying to finish his dissertation 'cause he has a job offer and a whole bunch of other things, and she's super jealous that he's, she finished her dissertation last year, hasn't had any job offers, crap in the job market.
THERAPIST: Yeah.
CLIENT: He's gotten a ton of odd job offers.
[9:02]
THERAPIST: Are they in the same field?
CLIENT: N-(pause) no. But um
THERAPIST: I mean, for Bridget to be jealous I'm just wondering, yeah.
CLIENT: Yeah, no she's just like, you know not in the same field at all, really. She is more like a traditional humanities poetry based thesis, but she does have some history. And he's doing like number crunching, historical analysis. So (pause) not the same. And also he's doing all this like digital humanities stuff, which is very trendy right now. And she did just like straight up literary analysis, which (pause) there's a lot of that. Um (pause) so yeah. I think with like the time pressure of finishing and getting his job offer finalized that she's getting kind of (pause)
[10:09]
...she's getting more upset and more intense about it. And as he's being like, 'Oh we're gonna end up moving to Charleston' it sort of, she's like 'Oh well are we still dating if I'm moving to Charleston?' all these other things. (pause) So it's really exhausting. Like (sigh) I mean first of all, they weren't sure how long he wanted to come over for. And also I had, I remembered that I had to revise a paper really quickly to e-mail in that day, so I kinda get the e-mail and I'm like 'Shit. Fuck. OK yes you can come over. Wait I have to finish a paper first.' You know, did that and then (pause)
[11:03]
...I don't know, it was just (pause) he was very anxiously like talking about everything else, um and (pause) he has ADD so he's, you know kind of fidgeting a lot and moving a lot and (pause) so that was kind of exhausting, and also just sort of, trying to talk to him about, I mean I think one of the reasons why he contacted me was because of my experience with Josie (ph) but
THERAPIST: Which he does know about?
CLIENT: Yeah he does know about it, but he didn't really address, like (pause) I'm pretty sure, like, I'm pretty sure that's a good reason why he called but he didn't, like it didn't really come up and partly (ph) we didn't talk about (pause)
[12:03]
...like he e-mailed me to say like 'I had this really like, I'm having these memory flashes what should I do?' etc. And then he came over and just was like 'I am not gonna talk about it.' And so I was really torn like 'Do I make him talk about it? Do I (pause) and in answering him do I talk about like my own experiences or do I not?' Um, I don't know it kinda ended up being like this odd elephant in the room. We just didn't talk about it. Um I felt kinda the same way when he came over to talk about his girlfriend being, um, verbally abusive and just very dismissive and cutting. Um and one of, one of her complaints was that (pause) she regretted spending any time helping him with his dissertation, because it was time she could have spent on herself and improving her career. You know they had both supported each other during their dissertations?
[13:18]
THERAPIST: Right.
CLIENT: But she was now like 'No, I regret ever spending time with you.' Um and she was mad that he wasn't sufficiently grateful and that he wasn't telling people that she'd been so helpful, and just like a whole slew of things. (pause, 13:38-13:52)
THERAPIST: And, sorry, was there anything you felt when he was talking about that stuff? Which was not yesterday but, did he (inaudible, voices overlap) —
CLIENT: I think there was something, yeah. Um (pause) I was initially really surprised that he texted me because, while we're friends we're not like the closest friends and I'm just like, I was thinking like 'There's like four other people that I would think you would have contacted first.' Um, including someone who lives near me. Um, so I was trying to think like 'Well why did you contact me' and I was like 'Oh —
THERAPIST: (inaudible) Josie.
CLIENT: Yeah, he wanted to talk to me because of that, um, I did talk to him, I mean, I talked a little bit about it. Like I, one thing I said, it's always really horrible that his girlfriend said that she regrets helping him and that she feels like he somehow coerced her into doing so.
[15:01]
Um, like he should have known that when she was offering to help him she was actually making these enormous sacrifices, even though, like she was offering and didn't say like 'PS this is an emotional sacrifice' sort of. Um, so I talked to him a little bit, like I to an extent don't regret helping Josie (inaudible) she is, like I don't regret the beginning of it but um I do regret the end of it. But, and I thought it was horrible for her to say that to him. More than once. (pause)
[16:12]
THERAPIST: Uh (pause) you present her as saying that to him out of bitterness I think.
CLIENT: I think it is. Um (pause) because when I've seen her talk to Colin about it, it's (pause) she al-I mean she just sounds like bitter, angry and resentful of anything that he does. And if he mentions like 'Oh I got invited to speak at xyz' she's upset that he's bringing it up, it's not fair that he got that offer and she should have, why hasn't she gotten similar offers and it's this whole like sort of
[17:12]
...like avalanche of her just being, like she's blaming him for her job problems and, I'm like 'Yes, you know, there is sexism in academia so like yes, you could say that like, yeah there are probably guys that are probably gonna get more job offers than women, like that can, that can only happen in, one of her, she's also Dominican, and one of her, well one of the places she was interviewing at, they didn't, some people who didn't realize she was Dominican, she's very fair, started making some really racist comments and she was just like 'What!' So like, these are a factor and her jobs are her [sure] (ph) but like, it's not directly Colin's fault. You know?
THERAPIST: As it turns out?
CLIENT: As it turns out. And the other sort of bigger issue is that, I think he's just a better scholar.
[18:18]
Like, I think the biggest problem is he like did, has done stuff that's more impressive than she has, and he's done like fellowships and he's spoken at various conferences and blah blah blah blah blah. So he has this kind of body of work before he's finished.
THERAPIST: Right. She's invisible (voices overlap).
CLIENT: And she, yeah. Um and there are sort of awkward ways in which, as a guy doing women's history he gets a lot of attention, but it's also like, Well he's a guy doing women's history and like crunching numbers which no one has really done, he's like digitizing like records and doing all these crazy things so I'm like 'Mm. Kinda neat (ph) he's doing all that.'
THERAPIST: I see.
[19:08]
CLIENT: Like he's making accessible um records that anyone could get at but would have to go and dig through like a courthouse. And he's like 'No, I digitize and put them online, do do doo.'
THERAPIST: So everybody can use them?
CLIENT: Mm hmm. I'm like 'That is a little bit more impressive than analyzing poetry.' You know. And more marketable. Yeah it's interesting, Colin doesn't perceive it as bitterness. He, I don't know, in some ways he's like 'Well it is unfair that you know she's having setbacks due to gender/ethnicity.' Which I agree, but —
THERAPIST: Sure. But, yeah but then you sorta disagree with her principle, more like it's the way she's using that stuff. I mean that 'cause of the sort of (pause) things she's beating him over the head with unfairly.
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: Or that's how you're describing it I think.
[20:09]
CLIENT: Yeah. And it's also (pause) I find it, I'm like disappointed in her as a person, that she's doing this. Which is kinda weird and difficult. Like, since she finished her dissertation, she's just been kind of, I don't know like, she's kinda unpleasant to be around. Um, her biggest insecurity is that no one will find her like interesting or fascinating or wanna hang out with her and doing poorly in the job market is just you know ramping that up. Um so when I do see her she's like really like 'Pay attention, pay attention, pay attention.' And angry at Colin and kind of like I don't know just very, I guess, 'cause she's not like c-(inaudible) is not what bothers me.
[21:22]
THERAPIST: I'm sorry, say that again, I just couldn't hear you.
CLIENT: Complaining about like not having a job like —
THERAPIST: That's not what bothers you?
CLIENT: Yeah like sucky, what are you gonna do. I'm complaining honestly about my job. But um, I don't know it's like so personalized. I don't know. But yeah, having Colin over was so exhausting. Um, well.
THERAPIST: I guess the other thing uh that I would imagine, although you're not quite saying it this way, that [how she's gonna bother you besides the job stuff] (ph) is like uh she's being really horrible to Colin.
[22:14]
CLIENT: Yeah. And also, like I dated Jessica briefly, dated her for like -
THERAPIST: How many - (voices overlap) That was like a while ago
CLIENT: Yeah I dated her like super briefly, like four or six months. And —
THERAPIST: Did she, is she more recently wanting to date you again?
CLIENT: She's been wanting to date me ever since we broke up. A couple years ago. It's been ongoing. Like her sobbing hysterically 'cause I won't because I asked her to like rub lotion on my back and —
THERAPIST: I see. And that was it.
CLIENT: Yeah. So part of me's like 'Wow I dodged a bullet, wow. Like one reason I broke up with her is that she was kind of a clingy drama queen and I wasn't interested in that. And now I'm like Yup, yeah that's...
[23:10]
THERAPIST: Still true.
CLIENT: Yeah. Although previously she'd been more like just having like dramatic emotions like 'I'm super super happy, I'm having —' oh or then she's like 'Oh I'm so sad like everything's tragic.' And it's like this very like kind of like overblown, but not, like it's very sort of performative and I'm like, alright.
THERAPIST: I see.
CLIENT: Um, well this just feels mean (ph). (pause, sigh) But yeah it was also hard to sort of trying talking to Colin and just being with him and I was thinking, and [I couldn't be] (ph) thinking like what it was like for me, like when I was first going 'Hmm I don't remember [whichever] (ph) this evening. Um.
[24:13]
THERAPIST: [Being that, what you mean in particular] (ph)
CLIENT: Yeah. And I also remember like wanting to talk to my friends about it sometimes and just like not, like you know going over to kinda talk about it and then just not. Like talking about everything else.
THERAPIST: Right. Like you and—
CLIENT: Yeah. So that was hard too. Like and we also had a previous conversation as what, I mean, what I was thinking you know like I can't convince you of anything. Like if you wanna stay with her you're gonna stay with her. If you're not, you're not. And I can talk to you about it, but, it was hard to listen to him defend her so much. But now I understand is that, like all these other things, and also it reminded me of how much I used to defend Josie, and still sometimes somewhat do.
[25:15]
Um (pause) and it was, it was weird to be on the other side of it. (pause)
THERAPIST: Do you wanna talk about that evening?
CLIENT: No. Fortunately (ph) 'cause I'm gonna meet with someone at three and (pause) I'm gonna try to talk to uh my [direct report in] (ph) IT about how IT's just making me really stressed out at times. And I really, I don't know how it's gonna go. (pause)
[26:13]
THERAPIST: What was weird about being on the other side of, with stuff, listening to Colin?
CLIENT: Um (pause) it was weird just to see, kinda to see like all the energy and effort he was putting into, so when he said like, he e-mailed me and asked to come over, was like 'I know how that works, you don't disassociate and lose memory for good things.' And I was like 'Yes, that's true.' Um but he was putting a lot of like energy into, so he said that but then he was putting all this energy into kind of not saying that. Like...(pause)
[27:14]
...he talked about like kind of touching one of his friends inappropriately and sort of being upset. And he didn't really talk about Jessica at all, but his girlfriend. Um.
THERAPIST: 'Cause is part of what was weird like, seeing him do some things so clearly that he was not aware he was doing?
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: Like it was clear he was in a conflict with himself over talking about this with you? And was pretty strenuously but unconsciously avoiding it?
CLIENT: Yes.
THERAPIST: While you were there?
CLIENT: And he's someone who (pause) like he generally is like 'I know what's going on, I know what I'm doing' you know, and um, he doesn't really, he um, like he kind of like you know 'These are like the various kind of problems I have and this is how I deal with this and, 'cause I deal with ADHD' and you know, so. It was weird to see him like being both so unfocused and then being like 'I really really wanna talk to you about this really t - small subject.' Very heavily. And I'm like, OK. And like 'cause I had nothing to do with anything, but it was clearly distracting him. Um, and also we did talk about, he's like 'I don't know what to do 'cause I have, I wanna have,' he's like 'I have nine days to turn in the next chapter. I'm going to a conference. The whole thing has to be done in six weeks.'
[29:12]
And I don't wanna talk to Jessica about it. I was like 'Yeah. That's a good idea.' Um and we talked about it, I'm like 'You can probably, if you're frustrated (ph) this long you can probably kinda just not deal with it for another nine days. I'm like 'I can —,' I was like, you know I can just kinda turtle (ph) things on a certain level but, it's probably better than, like he really really really wants to finish. And if he continues to be delayed it's gonna start affecting his career. And he also really wants to get out of here. So I was like 'Well, you know you probably...' And then in the like, then after nine days like, do something. Talk to your therapist a whole bunch. Etc. And he doesn't talk to me, he hasn't asked. I was talking to another friend initially if we knew anyone who does (ph) uh crisis counseling.
[30:19]
Um and I was like 'Well, you know.' It was funny 'cause he was like 'Do we know anyone who does that, blah blah blah.' 'Well, Colin, there are these two resources which I know you know about.' Um the Rape Crisis Center and the Domestic Violence Crisis Center.
THERAPIST: And what?
CLIENT: Which does um mostly domestic violence in queer relationships. Um.
THERAPIST: I've heard good things about the rape crisis center, I didn't know about that other one.
CLIENT: Yeah it is like, it's it's pretty small. Totally awesome, um, and one of his friends worked for them for a year so like —
THERAPIST: Yeah, probably knows —
CLIENT: Yeah, and I was like here are their numbers again.
[31:04]
Um, but like, he's not gonna call them I don't think. He's talking to his regular therapist, which is good. Um, but yeah the other thing, the other thing was he'd spent I think the last five days like unable to write and just like spinning his wheels in his head. Which I have a lot of sympathy for.
THERAPIST: Um (pause) my impression is that (pause) seeing how anxious he was as well as how the nature of what he's anxious about versus for you, um, made it stressful for you.
[32:15]
Also, I think how he kind of made you feel a bit responsible, it sounds like?
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: For whether or not to talk about the stuff he was struggling with, was stressful.
CLIENT: Yeah, in part it was, I (sigh). He doesn't seem very reserved, and he sent this e-mail to myself and to another mutual friend. Ashley, Ashley was having his mom visit for the weekend, as a night (ph) houseguest, and just could not you know. Like he tried to call her at one point and got her kid on the phone. And he was like 'Mom's making dinner' and —
THERAPIST: She can't pick up the phone.
CLIENT: Yes, I can pick up the phone (laughs) Um, so yeah like I, it was hard 'cause like, you know, we'd initially talked about him coming over, and I was gonna work on my paper and he was gonna work on one of his papers. Um
[33:22]
(inaudible) and I was just like, 'Oh gonna both be doing a lot of work' and then it was a very low key, and it was kind of everything. Like (pause) I, I mean, I guess I was worried, I'm still a little bit worried that he's like, like whatever was happening he was clearly really upset at that moment. And didn't wanna be alone and didn't wanna talk to people, or something. Which I, which I am very sympathetic towards. Um and also I just, I didn't think it would be as exhausting as it was gonna be.
[34:13]
Um. It was a lot more difficult than I thought. I think mostly because, he just winding, I don't know he was just winding me up and making me really anxious. Um, and just having him not wanna talk about it, not wanna talk about it, not wanna talk about it. Like I just was like, I just felt like this was living (ph) in our conversation for like five hours straight. Um -
THERAPIST: I see, you spent like five entire hours not talking about it, and that was a lot of what was exhausting?
CLIENT: Yeah. We probably talked about it for like 20 minutes.
THERAPIST: Right and I would guess that it didn't leave your mind for more than a few minutes at a time?
[35:07]
CLIENT: No. (pause)
THERAPIST: I see, so you were really going along with it.
CLIENT: Yeah. And I, you know, it was really overwhelming in general and it was also overwhelming just to like, I didn't wanna have like, a day. Like I didn't wanna be, I was like I don't, I'm not trying to hang around a lot of people right now, I'm kinda tired, I just wanna like chill out and have a really relaxed Sunday. And then it was a not really relaxed Sunday. Um and also I just felt like, I was like I don't really like, I wanna help you but I don't know that I can. Like (pause, sigh)
[36:19]
...because I'm like 'Well I can like listen to you talk about whatever's going on. Um I can help you find your resources if that's what you want, which is what I thought he wanted, like, I thought that he wanted to like come over, kinda talk about what had been going on, it sounded like maybe he wanted somewhere to be able to like call a crisis hotline or something. I was like 'You can use my roommate's bedroom, she's not here right now.' Um And I kind of wanted to, I wanted to do, like do something that would help him, or it felt like it was helpful. And at the end of the evening I, I don't know like, I didn't really feel like I'd done anything very, I didn't really feel like I helped him. I felt really exhausted. And (pause)
[37:16]
I just felt really, like felt like really exhausted, also felt like I hadn't done anything. (pause)
[38:10]
THERAPIST: Um (pause) well, I have my sort of, what seems to me, my kind of elaborate collection of thoughts. Let me throw them out there. Tell me what you think. Um, so (pause) my first thought was something like, 'Hm. Maybe he was setting you up.' You know, he calls in a panic, 'Can I come over now?' He's freaking out, nothing happened, he knows you've had a similar experience. Of course you're gonna say 'OK, you know, I'm here.' Comes over and stays five hours not talking about it.
[39:13]
And then leaves. Like, I don't know, I thought he's setting you up, like uh, and then you're the one who feels ineffective. Like, even though this is not sympathetic to him at the moment but if I just think about it from like solely what it does to, the perspective of what it does to you, like he sorta drops this bomb and then comes over and like doesn't. And I can imagine that's actually, annoying. Or could make you mad, in a way. Like you wanted to have an easygoing Sunday. You were being like nice, sympathetic, trying to help him out. You know, not just on any subject but on one that like is a pretty sensitive one for you, which he knows.
[40:19]
And a time when you otherwise, I'm guessing, would not particularly wanna be thinking about that. And then he comes over and like doesn't actually get into it. But of course you can't stop thinking about it. I would think you might be annoyed. I, you know, it's complicated holding him responsible, like I'm not trying to make a judgment about him. You know, sounds like he's really struggling.
CLIENT: No, I was, I mean, I was annoyed because like I could have been doing other things.
THERAPIST: Yeah, more fun things. Less stressful things. Less serving (ph) things I think. And then I thought —
[41:06]
well if she really was annoyed or mad, why isn't she saying she's annoyed or mad? Like, there's some quality of like kind of holding him responsible or or at least not feeling so responsible yourself or kind of being clear about ways that you're annoyed or angry, I think can be difficult for you. As I've probably gone on about before. So then I was wondering the situation like, why? What's going on? And I thought (pause) maybe what happens, I told you it was like elaborate, maybe what happens (laughing) is that you are very very hesitant to sort of push things back on other people that way. Or be mad in a way that holds them responsible for what they're doing. Because you're so concerned about somebody else having the same kind of experience that you have all the time they'll be looking out (ph) to you.
[42:12]
Like the last thing you want is for somebody to feel like they couldn't speak, they couldn't express their side of things, they were being told something was their problem in a way they couldn't deal with it, that you didn't wanna hear from them. I imagine some of those are some of the last things you'd wanna convey just because you've often been so painfully on the other end of that. And so I wonder if that leads you at times to kind of overly um, not understanding but reluctant to acknowledge that you're annoyed or hold other people responsible. And, but it then becomes very stressful for you. Like when you're sort of annoyed or frustrated, and feeling like, you know, he's making things difficult for you, but you can't say it or maybe to some extent see it that way, which I think makes you more stressed out. And also makes you feel more incompetent or less effective.
[43:22]
CLIENT: Yeah. I mean (pause) but I mean probably why it was difficult to feel mad at him, although I was feeling like annoyed towards the end, is (pause) there were a couple points where I was like, kinda like I was like 'OK so you're leaving now, alright.' Um and then he just didn't. And I just felt very awkward being like 'I want you to, leave my house now.' Um (pause)
[44:32]
I don't know, it just (pause) I think part of it was like at the time I wasn't really, I wasn't really sure what it was that was bothering me, or why it was stressful. Like in the moment I was just kinda like 'Ah maybe I'm just kinda tired 'cause I didn't sleep great, or I didn't get, didn't take an afternoon nap because he came over.' And sort of, so it wasn't until like a lot later that I was like 'Oh, yeah. That's why that was so tipping (ph) and stressful.
[45:13]
And also like for the last month every Sunday afternoon, I'm like, I'm really cranky, I'm in a bad mood, I don't know what's going on, 'Oh right, I don't wanna go to work.' But I have this like hour or two where I'm like, I just don't know why I feel this way. (both laughing) It's so weird. And then either, Ashby's like 'You have to go to work tomorrow' fuck you (Therapist laughing) or I'm like, 'Oh right that thing where I have to go to work tomorrow.' So there's also kinda like, just that like 'I don't wanna go to work tomorrow. Wait no, that's not what I'm annoyed at.' Um, and also like I felt like, because Jessica had been so, has been so 'I resent helping you, I resent that I just, like I couldn't think of a, it just felt so hard to be like 'I kind of want you to leave now.' When —
[46:14]
...like I, I don't think (pause, sigh) I just didn't feel like he would really, that he would take it as like an example of him being a terrible person as opposed to, I just wanna brighten (ph) (voices overlap) up.
THERAPIST: I see. We gotta stop for now. We'll talk more.
[END, 46:47]
END TRANSCRIPT
