Transcript of Audio File:
______________________________________________________________________________
BEGIN TRANSCRIPT:
THERAPIST: So where do we start?
CLIENT: I don't know this week and next. Again I almost cancelled yesterday morning just because I just felt so overwhelmed with this week. I did a sleep study on Sunday night to see if I have sleep apnea or something like that. It was inconclusive so far. I've just got a zillion things due in the next two weeks that I'm just trying to figure out how I negotiate them without (inaudible at 00:01:08) to not suffer from headaches. [00:01:11]
THERAPIST: Which I'm guessing you have to?
CLIENT: Yeah. I'm nursing one right now. I honestly don't know and this is not necessarily where we need to bring you in or even dwell on. But I honestly don't know or I don't have experience in adjusting my expectations of what I need to do, how I need to perform, the level at which I need to perform, and the quality of it. Anyway that's what I'm dealing with right now. [00:02:06]
THERAPIST: What feels most important to you of the things that you're dealing with? What really feels most important?
CLIENT: I know it's strange because they all have the same level of annoyance. I mean it's like each one in itself isn't more important than the other but the fact that they all come down in the same four or five days is... But I suppose if I had to decide which felt the most important it's probably this radio piece that is dependent on others. I need to interview people who need to get back to me so some of those things are outside of my control. [00:03:11]
THERAPIST: And that's hard to wait on someone else.
CLIENT: Yeah. And so it's probably...
THERAPIST: So if you think about it that way it might help to think about fitting the other stuff in the holes as you're waiting for someone to get back to or work on the next assignment.
CLIENT: Well one of the things I realized - I realized it as I'm daydreaming that there are pockets of time that are worth capitalizing on like sitting down there reading or on the bus that typically I just say I can't concentrate on that right now because I'll get into it and then I'll have to get off the bus or whatever but you're right. [00:04:19]
I mean there is a model I try to do is throw out the things that I need to cast out as early as possible and then focus on the other stuff until I hear back. I don't know. I think the reason I'm more annoyed with this set of obligations than I have been in the past is that I had hoped and had tried to address these things early on so I wouldn't be writing a paper two days before its due or something. And I might still end up doing that but despite my efforts to try to do that I'm still wondering if the system is set up against me so that you can't really draw on things to talk about until (inaudible at 00:05:44). So I'm learning some lessons about what's in my control and what's not and how I need to steer things if I expect to act like I have control over them. [00:06:10]
THERAPIST: In terms of setting your expectations it's also important to recognize that no matter how matter how well you've planned throughout the semester mid-term time and final time are going to be stressful. Nobody is non-stressed during those times. Nobody is not working on something up to the last minute or a lot more than they did the previous three weeks. It's just part of the way that the flow of the semester's going to be.
CLIENT: No, that's definitely true. I can appreciate that to a point but it just seems like it's other things that have to land for whatever reason right during this time like my birthday coming up, Saturday my wife's throwing me a party. It's like the place is a mess and that's going to stress me out even though I said to her last Saturday... Sorry. I said to her last Saturday let's start cleaning up so we don't have to do it all on Friday or all day Saturday. She said, "No, no, no I'm going to do all the cleaning." I'm like okay but it's still a mess so whatever. [00:07:17]
And then I've got an application due for a school in Paris. It's due the first day of spring break so it's right on the heels of all this stuff. Anyway so that's my sob story as one and that's what I'm dealing with. And when I feel overwhelmed like this I get these headaches that is just this dull ache.
THERAPIST: Are they a lot of carrying on and muscle tension?
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: Do you know if you clench your teeth or grind your teeth at night? [00:08:05]
CLIENT: I don't think I do. My wife does. But I apparently am too weak so I get all sorts of feedback on my sleep quality. I don't know how they expect you to sleep with all those things.
THERAPIST: Nobody sleeps during a sleep study. The common refrain when you come back from a sleep study is you're exhausted because you haven't slept all night.
CLIENT: Exactly. I mean it wasn't horrible but at the same time... They asked me when I walked in when I was getting into bed do you sleep with the lights off?
THERAPIST: Who doesn't?
CLIENT: Some people do. Well maybe that's why they can't sleep. And some people have the TV on too. I was like I don't know if I actually need a study to type that. But anyway so yeah that's what's going on. [00:09:04]
And I should also tell you about what I was thinking about after. I left here last week I think we were talking about intimacy and what it is first of all. And I'm not going to remember all of it. If I were to try to summarize my thinking on it at the end it was is it a deficit? Am I needing it and I'm not getting it? Am I not sure what it is so I don't know how to ask for it? Is it something that I seek outside of my marriage because for whatever reason it's not present or is there an ignorance of the need for it between the two of us? And I don't mean ignorance as far as idiocy. It's just an unawareness of the need to make it a priority. [00:10:16]
What I was thinking about last week when I left or shortly thereafter was I know I said that there is some aspects of the fantasy with you that involve a sexual nature. But the strongest urges I had, I think I mentioned, was just to hold your hand or things like that that to me speak to a certain intimacy that maybe is absent or is possibly a level of intimacy that is needed but also acceptable in terms of my fidelity. I don't know. So that's as much as I got out of it. But it's not necessarily the things... Well I was going to say that's not what I fantasize about with people on the street. So as far as this being a reflection of what's out there or playing out in here I'm not exactly sure what that is. [00:11:52]
THERAPIST: But it's interesting because yes sometimes we use the therapy relationship as a parallel for other relationships. And it seems like what comes up your notice wanting or feeling more in here is closer (inaudible at 00:12:09) to what you would expect in other significant relationships rather than the fantasies that you have with chance encounters with people in the bookstore or in class. They're not as significant. The fantasy might be really significant but the people in it... And I think that oftentimes I mean something you get in a therapy relationship is a sort of intimacy which you probably have in other significant relationships. I mean time to sit down and talk face-to-face about things that are really important that we often don't make time for because other stuff like cleaning the house, getting chores done, making dinner, going grocery shopping.... [00:12:52]
CLIENT: Or even just you just don't realize you need it.
THERAPIST: Yeah. Other stuff sort of takes up space and gets in the way and you kind of forget that. You forget to put that on the to do list.
CLIENT: You forget if you knew to begin with that it was important. I mean I know what you're saying as far as just being. It's like exercise. Where does that come in when you've got all these things that occupy your day? Knowing that exercise is important but unless you realize the importance of it, or even how to initiate it, or how to make it a priority, or what it even is and the many forms of it I don't know that I know that. And I don't know that it means the same thing to me and my wife. [00:13:42]
THERAPIST: What do you think it means to you? Can I take it back and ask a different question?
CLIENT: I didn't get too far.
THERAPIST: When you felt an urge to hold my hand what was it that preceded that? What was the feeling? I mean try to take yourself back to that.
CLIENT: Yeah if I can. I'm not sure this is accurate but I want to say it was a calming that I needed because I was feeling so vulnerable what I was sharing. But I don't know if that's true. It seems plausible but I don't know. I don't really remember which time it was or what we were discussing. [00:14:51]
THERAPIST: But just based on what you came up with for an answer then I mean you didn't make that up out of thin air. It probably meant something to you.
CLIENT: I mean there were times when I felt that.
THERAPIST: So then I'm going to kind of extrapolate from that and think that one form of intimacy for you is the feeling that you can be soothed by someone else. Having a strong feeling whether it be vulnerability or anxiety and feeling like that person can soothe you being that connected. [00:15:27]
CLIENT: Yeah. I'm sorry. I'm thinking about soothing me and my head is just pounding. No I hear you. I guess what I don't know is can I be present enough to... Sorry.
THERAPIST: You're very popular today.
CLIENT: That's my dog. She's...
THERAPIST: (inaudible at 00:16:08).
CLIENT: Anyway sorry.
THERAPIST: That's okay.
CLIENT: Can I be in the moment enough... I'm actually surprised I can still remember all this. Can I be in the moment enough to realize the importance of that to let the things that are draining me or on my mind melt away in order for that soothing to be A welcomed and B effective.
THERAPIST: Yeah, really let that in. [00:16:50]
CLIENT: And I guess when I really think about it when I think about that need the importance of it and the importance of things like exercise those are all the first to go. They are the... And I know they're important. They're probably more important than anything else I'm doing frankly. [00:17:27]
THERAPIST: Well because they're all taking care of yourself. If you're not here then your performance doesn't matter so much. And I think that's what ends up feeling like it has more priority is the performance pieces; writing a paper, getting ready for a test.
CLIENT: Yeah, to prove something.
THERAPIST: Rather than taking care of yourself.
CLIENT: Yeah, which I don't think I... I mean I think I've got a very inaccurate view of how I take care of myself. I think I take care of myself better than I do. And I probably assume my relationship with my wife is better than it really may be. I don't know. [00:18:16]
THERAPIST: How do you measure how good it is?
CLIENT: Well what I mean to say is it's healthy. But measuring that I think that's the problem. I don't know how to measure and I just assume that because things are good between us that it is okay. Absence of any real measurement however you apply that similarly I don't get on a scale and know that I'm out of shape or whatever. I haven't been exercising. [00:19:15]
And I think there might be some correlation between feeling like I'm doing the right things to be healthy and feeling like I'm doing the right things to maintain a healthy marriage that if I really were to do like a dietary log, if I really were to do an intimacy log it would probably tell me otherwise. I'm sure it would in fact. That's not to say I'm hopeless about it. I, again, I don't know how... I don't have a lot of experience in self care or at least making it a priority consistently. And I don't have a lot of experience in adjusting my expectations for meeting those performance... [00:21:11]
THERAPIST: In order to make room for those things.
CLIENT: Yeah. So I keep on going through sacrificing things that are important. Things like, again, I use exercise as an example. I also want back in music. The things that we've talked about that are important for my sanity, my esteem, those things. On one level it's a little bit disheartening to me to know how quickly I can just cleave those away. [00:22:04]
THERAPIST: For how long because there's a difference on giving up on music and giving up on the gym and taking a break because there's sometimes when not everything fits and it sometimes okay to let some of the healthy stuff not fit for a little bit.
CLIENT: True. I think what happens with me is I get off of it and then it's immediately a slippery slope. Well if I haven't done that...
THERAPIST: It's all or nothing.
CLIENT: Yeah, exactly. I haven't done that for weeks so I'm back to who I am and I can't change it. Should I really be playing music if I can't do it regularly you know all those things.
THERAPIST: Well we can talk back to those thoughts.
CLIENT: Yeah. But on the other hand how do I not let it... I mean I know. I understand what you say about allowing for circumstances to force adjustments, but I don't think even when there's large blocks of time that I value the importance of self care. [00:23:34]
THERAPIST: When do you think was a time in your life when you took the best care of yourself and allowed yourself to feel the most connected to someone else whether it be your wife or someone else in your life?
CLIENT: Are you talking about some kind of intimacy column here or just overall self care?
THERAPIST: Two separate pieces. So I guess feeling connected to someone else is another way that I think of having intimacy. And I guess that's why I asked two questions at once. When do you feel like you took the best care of yourself? And then I guess a separate question of feeling connected. They might coincide. I don't know. [00:24:33]
CLIENT: Well in the January break I did exercise three times a week and was playing music a little too. Then I got sick, and then school started, and then whatever, and then it's that...
THERAPIST: That wasn't that long ago right?
CLIENT: No. I know.
THERAPIST: It feels like it's been a really long time but it's only the very end of February.
CLIENT: Yes.
THERAPIST: So January break was only a month ago.
CLIENT: True. But March is the day after tomorrow.
THERAPIST: It's still only a month ago. [00:25:09]
CLIENT: Yeah okay. Okay. But I don't know if I can honestly say that I've ever felt really connected. I think I kind of... I think part of the problem is I don't know what it looks like you know. I mean the idea of talking to my wife about what I perceive or imagine are her insecurities about the past couple of years I get really anxious and I don't want to do it though I know it's important. [00:26:49]
THERAPIST: What's the anxiety about when you imagine that conversation?
CLIENT: I don't exactly know. I mean I don't know if it's because it seems like work. I mean that I'm going to hate it. That it's going to be dreadful. I don't know. It's like even naming it is shining a spotlight on it that I guess I want to pretend isn't there. There aren't anxieties or insecurities for her. [00:27:41]
I mean I think she's put a lot of stock into the idea that if he doesn't drink he's going to be fine. And I do too, but I can't imagine that it's limited to that. I assume... Well she's said as much before that she thinks alcohol will bring out somebody's real person inside who they want to be. I think she thinks that. And so I think she has lingering fears about the real person inside of me that would come out if I were drinking or would come out if we were not married. [00:28:44]
THERAPIST: You're imagining that she thinks fairly unflattering things about you.
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: That doesn't sound that's real that either you or she would like very much in this scenario.
CLIENT: Yeah, exactly.
THERAPIST: It makes sense that you feel anxious about hearing that.
CLIENT: Well that or that I don't have the ability to convince her that that's not the case. I can't... I mean in some ways I'm powerless to - well I'm powerless because I can only say so much. But I think there's still some elements in me that are concerned that that unflattering picture might probably be true. And any attempt to suggest that it's not true to her might not be able to be communicated with the kind of conviction that I would want. [00:30:20]
THERAPIST: What makes you believe that that might be true?
CLIENT: Well I think it's because of these fantasies; these escapes. And I still don't know what or how to regard them as far as what kind of healthy, normal, appropriate allowance there is for such things. And I don't know - I guess I just don't know if I did try to escape sometime into a certain fantasy is it necessarily a reaction to stress that we talked about. Is it just... And I guess I'll have to pay attention tomorrow when I'm not stressed to see if it still happens. Yeah, I guess those fantasies, those escapes, plus a long history of feeling despicable or whatever, and my infidelity I think all contribute to the suggestion that there is a real me and he's awful. [00:32:42]
THERAPIST: Well you're certainly building up some evidence to convince yourself of that.
CLIENT: Well...
THERAPIST: I wonder how much of it is real a self-fulfilling prophecy type of situation?
CLIENT: Yeah. I mean I've feared that in years past that I'm going to prove to myself that I am as bad as I think I am and it will be beyond my control. It's just going to be nature. But I do not... I mean I can hold those things inside and can still continue to show up here and start DBT tomorrow and these other things that are signs of an expectation that I am not destined to be this awful person that I think in the past I was convinced that I was. But the doubt or the insecurity that I have about bringing these things up in front of my wife with my wife is not something I relish. [00:34:39]
THERAPIST: Thinking about intimacy as sharing the things that you're most afraid of I guess it's kind of a narrow view of intimacy. I mean who would want to be intimate if that's what you got?
CLIENT: No, I got it. I understand it's not just that.
THERAPIST: But I think that in sort of the envelop of feeling safe to do that. I think having a really intimate relationship is one where you have the safety and the trust and the security that you can share some of your biggest fears; be really vulnerable. But I think also looking at it as sharing and connecting around more enjoyable things; being able to predict her sense of humor. Do you feel like she gets what would make you laugh? Can you anticipate those things? That's the flip side of intimacy. [00:35:45]
CLIENT: You know it's funny because if that is as you say another part of intimacy that part has grown in the past eight months and it's been surprising to me because I just thought she didn't have a sense of humor at all. And things that I thought were funny she would be like Spock like that's illogical. It's a joke. But I guess I'm pleasantly surprised to hear that that's part of intimacy because that's been one thing that's actually expanded and our ability to laugh together has been more. [00:36:36]
THERAPIST: I mean I'm not necessarily the authority but to me it feels like it is a piece of it because for me intimacy is feeling connected. And when you're really connected to someone you know them really well. You know the different aspects of their personality. Knowing someone allows you to be able to predict how they might respond to things, and I think humor is one piece. It might not be the thing that's funny to you. I don't think you necessarily have to share the exact same sense of humor but being able to predict this would make her laugh. [00:37:08]
CLIENT: Yeah. Yeah. And I think I've been doing that not because I think its part of intimacy. I think I've been doing that longer and now she's actually reciprocating it.
THERAPIST: I'm going to imagine that feels good to have that.
CLIENT: It does. It does because it seems like you can relate to each other and you're not speaking to a stranger which in the past it has felt like. Any other cases of intimacy I should be aware of that I can look forward too? [00:38:13]
THERAPIST: Do you feel like you can take care of one another or does it feel unequal?
CLIENT: I think we can. I think right now I don't know if it's because of my medication or what I think she's in a better position to take care of me than I am to take care of her.
THERAPIST: Do you allow her to do that?
CLIENT: Yeah. But, again, I think it's kind of in crisis mode that I allow her to do that. The soothing at the end of the day is something that I just don't have for. I don't have time for that. I can't. I've got to do this. I don't know. I guess in today's society it almost seems like well, of course, grow apart after years of marriage when they've got these deadlines or things that they prioritize more than that. And then 20 years later it's like who is this stranger that I can't relate to or I didn't make time to relate to. [00:40:02]
Why am I suffering from Diabetes; because I didn't take care of my body? Why am I so on and so forth? I'm miserable because I didn't take time to do the things like music. I guess I can see how creeping deadlines and obligations can certainly...
THERAPIST: But similar to how you can take... I think you do a good job actually of taking advantage of little pockets of time. Maintaining, establishing, growing intimacy you don't need to have a two hour chunk to go on a date to do that. You can take advantage of five minutes sitting at dinner. It doesn't have to be a long drawn out four course meal to enjoy a moment. It could be five minutes while you have reheated spaghetti or a minute before you fall asleep of her rubbing your neck because you have a headache. Those are little ways even little tiny pockets of time can be ways of just reestablishing a connection. It doesn't have to be a big emotional thing. [00:41:31]
CLIENT: A production.
THERAPIST: Yeah, that's the word I was looking for. Thank you.
CLIENT: Well that's encouraging because I think there are times when we do try to do that and we do try to sit down together for dinner and there's a show we like to watch on Netflix On Demand. I have kind of mixed feelings about it because we both look forward to it as our time to do something together but it's like we're both watching this show. [00:42:05]
THERAPIST: But you could hold hands.
CLIENT: Yeah, we do. I mean we do the... So I mean I don't know. Perhaps as with many things my ideas of what intimacy are and what they - I mean could be broadened; less stringent. I mean it's hard to say that my ideas of intimacy are stringent when I clearly have already acknowledged that I don't really know what it is necessarily. But as you point to things and say okay yeah that's there.
THERAPIST: I think there may be things - there may be ways that you have intimacy and you're just not calling it that or you maybe there are things that you have that you're not present enough in the moment to realize that that's it. Because certainly there are times when you could be holding your wife's hand or something and not really noticing it so much. Yeah you're doing it. You know you're doing. You know your hand is, but it might not feel momentous in any way. And then there might be other times and you reach out and you touch one another and you feel very soothed by her; you feel very connected and that's okay. It doesn't always have to be the exact same thing. There might be times when you sit across from each other at dinner and you're thinking about seven other things that you need to be doing after dinner. And then there might be times when you're sitting there and you have this moment where you feel like this is nice. Sitting together sharing a meal this feels good. So allowing those feelings to kind of creep in at the times when they're possible; taking advantage of the little opportunities to feel connected to yourself and to her. [00:43:57]
CLIENT: Yeah, I mean I guess I see that, but I think - I just have this feeling that I give more power to those things that might not matter as much and maybe that's wrong. Maybe I'm not doing that. I don't know. I know I do prioritize things partly because if I don't do those things I'll get stressed out and even more not in the moment, or miserable, and headaches and stuff. So in a way trying to stay on top of those things is self care for me. I guess I just don't know what the trade off is. [00:44:58]
THERAPIST: Part of a change in your experience might not necessarily be deprioritizing those things or even giving them less time, but it's taking the time that you're worrying about it...
CLIENT: Could be better spent.
THERAPIST: That could be better. Right. So if you're sitting there watching the show together that you enjoy and you're worrying about not writing your paper, that's not helping you. That's not getting the paper written and it's also taking away from the thing that might actually feed you, give you energy, help you feel balanced to allow you to actually write when it's time to write when the show is over and it's time to turn your attention to the paper. So I think you do more, I think, than you give yourself credit for. I mean you say you're not really taking care of yourself yet you've been engaged in pretty intensive therapy for a couple of years. That's part of self care. [00:45:53]
CLIENT: I don't eat fried foods.
THERAPIST: See I mean there are lots of things you do or don't do that you don't necessarily give yourself credit for.
CLIENT: Yeah I know. That's the story of my life as you know. It's like if I'm not here I might as well be here. But I guess what's important to me is to learn during this time that it seems like I have the opportunity to put into practice some things that will help me down the road some sort of priority unbalance that's not only balancing priorities but also balancing the expectation of mastery or of what is taking care of myself. Are my expectations out of balance with that? Is there credit that I'm giving myself for that out of balance? So yeah I just feel like my ideas about what I do and don't do and the fall out from doing either is out of balance. My life seems to be ruled by these things more than they are these things and it is out of balance. I just think some day I'm going to regret it in a big way. [00:48:07]
THERAPIST: You're right in that right now you have a really good opportunity to practice because this is crunch time and so many things are pushing on you and you need to get done and you want them to be done. So if you can do a little bit better... You're not going to be in balance right now. It's just not possible, but you can get through it a little bit less unbalanced than maybe you would have six months ago. And part of that might be making sure that you are wherever you are at the moment. So whatever you're working on in the moment, wherever you want to be putting your attention at that moment, put your attention there. And then when you're ready to shift to the next thing be at that next thing rather than thinking two or three steps ahead. That probably will allow you to feel a little better in the moment because what feels really horrible is when you're doing one thing and you're telling yourself that you should be doing seven other things. And that doesn't increase your productivity. It just increases your stress. [00:49:09]
CLIENT: It actually decreases your productivity too and effectiveness.
THERAPIST: Yes. So allowing yourself to choose where you're going to be, be at that place, and then move to the next place when you choose to and let go of the second guessing and the jumping a couple steps ahead. And two weeks from now you'll be in a place where there might be more room for getting yourself to the gym or getting a massage. That might be a healthy way to relieve some of the stress when you have time.
CLIENT: Yeah. Okay.
THERAPIST: Why don't we stop there for today?
CLIENT: Oh yeah. So I should probably... [00:49:58]
END TRANSCRIPT
