Transcript of Audio File:
______________________________________________________________________________
BEGIN TRANSCRIPT:
CLIENT: The obvious story. Oh Lord. So I took Ian to the baseball game on Sunday. Fifteen innings and we finally left.
THERAPIST: Oh my God.
CLIENT: The game went 17 innings.
THERAPIST: Oh wow.
CLIENT: And I had him all day. He had probably the time of his life. I mean really. I mean when we were coming home, it was way past his bedtime. Jokingly at the I said why don't you run up the stairs and I take the escalator. [No, I'm not, no how.] (ph)
THERAPIST: Yes I do.
CLIENT: Yes, so he ran all the way up.
THERAPIST: Oh my God.
CLIENT: But, I get him home - you know when we left it was a cloudy day. And we got there eventually the sun kind of burned everything off and so I got some sun, he got some sun. No big deal, right? Jess lays into me. She's like he's all sunburned, he's all sunburned. I'm like yes? What am I - what was I supposed to do. I think she realized what a bitch she was because she texted me four or five minutes later what a great time he had and yesterday was going to be a rough day, which, you know. But it's - you know, I've been maligned for so long about my initial reactions to things and she's just as bad. So I'm just - I'm more and more done with her as the days go by. In fact I'm stalking a woman on Facebook. [00:02:12]
THERAPIST: Oh. Is that...
CLIENT: It's a new woman on my Handball team. And I won't say I'm stalking but I...
THERAPIST: I imagined you're exaggerating a bit.
CLIENT: Yes. But I've met her twice. But she's 12 years younger than me, at least. I don't know if we want to [fall into] (ph) that guy at that age, I don't know. You roll your eyes. So at least I have something new to obsess about. I have my meeting today right after here with the folks at the Bank. And it'd be so awesome if they could put me on the list. I don't know. I'm kind of trying to think of what to throw at these people in this meeting and I really just have to kind of sell myself as more of a business partner to the bank more than I have been or even will be.
THERAPIST: You mean somebody who will bring them referrals?
CLIENT: Right, right. And all the people who could really provide references for me have left the bank. But we'll see how it goes. I guess there's nothing lost by meeting with these people. Other than I could be doing work but I'm blowing off all my work. Did a little bit of work yesterday. I'm doing this one title that's just crazy. They wanted it on Friday and I e-mailed them yesterday because they desperately needed it right away because it was very complicated. I've seem to be only able to commit a half hour to an hour at a time on this. [00:04:36]
THERAPIST: Really?
CLIENT: Yes, it's a pain in the ass. It's a condo so there's like 20 some odd units so lots of titles have been run on it. So there's sort of a confidence level of what I'm seeing is valid. You know, if I'm missing anything and even if I'm missing anything no one's going to notice. It's still a pain in the ass. But I'm less stressed out, less anxious. I think it's because I've been playing Handball and drinking. Went out on Thursday, I went to a party Saturday night, Saturday day and night.
THERAPIST: Is that the one in [inaudible]?
CLIENT: Yes. I did not get shot. I went to, out last night. And my landlord rode his bike, said he wanted to ride bikes home together.
THERAPIST: Oh your landlord plays Handball?
CLIENT: Yes. And that's how I know him. And he has a much better bike than I do. It's like 1:30 in the morning, or 1:00 in the morning and I kept up with him.
THERAPIST: Good.
CLIENT: Probably going to pay for it at some point today. My legs were a little wobbly. But I didn't completely flip out when I realized I didn't have my wallet. I just turned around, saw that I was going to be late, but still needed to get my wallet to buy coffee. I went an bought coffee the other day and I bought beans and I don't have a grinder. So I have coffee but...the dog's diarrhea finally looks like it's finally getting under control. The vet came yesterday, $320. [00:06:46]
THERAPIST: Ouch.
CLIENT: Yes. So, at least I have another closing this week. That makes two weeks in a row.
THERAPIST: Good.
CLIENT: And they seem to be coming a little more deals that I had. I think I literally had four closings this year, which is when I saw that I was like fuck, how am I eating? And it's going to be difficult with Jess not getting paid for a couple months. Even though I've got more deals I don't know that I can support the whole firm. At noon the IRS took my money, which was huge, it's like, just...
THERAPIST: Yes, it was like $2000, right?
CLIENT: Yes, and Jess is like, she shows indifference. I don't know if she really gets it but that was a lot of money to me. I don't think she gets that. I kind of laid it all out in a text or e-mail that this is really fucking me over. I'm about three months behind on rent because of it. And she's asking me for expenses and stuff like that. She sends me this e-mail how we're negative $6,000 a month, not including marketing expenses. Like God forbid I should have a website, which can't be right. I mean maybe for the last couple months but the last six months have been just awful. And I don't know, $6,000 seems a little off. It would have to be negative $32,000 in income, which I don't think it was. [00:09:04]
I'm sending her all the documentation. It's a pain in the ass because she doesn't understand things and she doesn't - I'm just like send what you have, send what you have, send what you have. At least get the conversation going between our lawyer and the IRS. Everything doesn't have to be neat and pretty. And she's like well he's got to be able to explain certain things to him, because my car expense I put at $700 and something a month. I said well when I spend $3000 at the mechanic, you put that over months and it's all the gas, and I'm spending $700, $800 a month. Just kind of, I want it all to go away. That's not going to happen. [00:10:06]
Sent $450 to the State, $300 something to the vet, got a closing funding tomorrow and I don't think it'll be enough money to cover both of those. So hopefully some of my titles, the money's come in on them. I need it. I've got five or six of them out there so I've got some money coming to me. Just whenever they close. I don't know if it's supposed to keep raining today but I'd like to ride my bike out to the farm. Adults [like it] (ph) when it's 100 percent in the shade but I could run around last night. People commented to me they noticed I've been able to run. I'm out of my high blood pressure medication, so I try not to get too stressed out. I actually had a moment where I stood up and almost fainted, which is reassuring that I didn't have high blood pressure.
THERAPIST: [inaudible at 00:11:54]
CLIENT: I don't know. I don't know what to do about Jess, you know. Just, I can't tell her what a bitch she's being. There's just nothing useful that's going to come of that. And at least now she can't say I haven't given any money for the kids because I gave all the money to the IRS, the DOR, the paying $700, $800 for the dog, actually it's $1100 when you throw in the cage. It's like I don't know where this money's coming from. But at some point I need to make more money, I need to stop spending so much money. [00:13:10]
THERAPIST: Well it does sound like you're able to do a little bit more.
CLIENT: Yes. I seem less anxious. The drinking's helping.
THERAPIST: That's probably what it is. I believe that getting out helped you. You hadn't even felt up to that for a while.
CLIENT: Yes. It looks like even though I'm not, shouldn't be spending money, going out afterwards is probably better for me than not. And while I'm there I might as well have a beer or two. But Saturday I was kind of shit-faced. [00:14:19]
THERAPIST: How many did you have?
CLIENT: What's that?
THERAPIST: How many did you have?
CLIENT: I don't know.
THERAPIST: Of course you do.
CLIENT: This was over a long period of time because I got there like 4:30 and brought four Guinness with me so I had four Guinness. They had a, you know, it was Cinco de Mayo, so they had a piñata which had nips in it. So I had a couple nips, and there was a couple times when they were sending around tequila shots. So I probably had one of those. And then my friend Barbara who, they moved to Vermont so they're not playing with us anymore, but she saw me without a beer and gave me her beer. So that's probably the extent of what I drank. She actually asked me how everything was going. She's like how's everything going, the separation? And I couldn't even really speak. I just, you know, so.
THERAPIST: How did you get home?
CLIENT: I was going to catch a ride, but I was feeling good, feeling better, so I drove home.
THERAPIST: That was a terrible idea.
CLIENT: Like that commercial where the guy like look this household reeks.
THERAPIST: Yes, come out here. [00:16:04]
CLIENT: Use more of your pack. Yes, I just didn't feel like it because I knew I had to go to the game with Ian, that I wouldn't have the opportunity to ride home...
THERAPIST: To get back, yes.
CLIENT: ...to get my car back in the morning. I'd have to get up early and bike out there.
THERAPIST: After having been shit-faced.
CLIENT: Yes. I wasn't that shit-faced. This was over a long period of time and there was food and, you know.
THERAPIST: It was a terrible idea.
CLIENT: What's that question they always ask me? How I've been engaging in dangerous activities? I've been riding my bike the wrong way down one-way streets. Actually I don't do that. That's one thing that freaks me out is the driver. It's like one street over is the street going the other way.
THERAPIST: Right. Just cut over.
CLIENT: Is it that - I understand if you live on this street. Like I do it because I live towards the end of the street, so I see a car coming I pull up on the sidewalk. I probably should've gotten a good night's sleep before this meeting. But don't worry, I didn't drive last night. [00:18:08]
THERAPIST: Right because you buy [inaudible at 00:18:14], right?
CLIENT: I only had a couple beers last night. I didn't drink that much. Had a big salad. It must've been an entire head of lettuce on this salad. Iceberg lettuce so it's really just - probably more calories to eat it than there is in it. It's all water, maybe some fiber. So there's one kind of issue with the woman that I'm stalking. She has the same last name as Jess. So...
THERAPIST: What do you like about her?
CLIENT: I don't know. I've only talked to her briefly a couple times. And initially I sized her up and I was like eh. But, I don't know. I'm not really sure. She's mildly attractive. She's not Claire but...
THERAPIST: She's just more attractive? [00:20:01]
CLIENT: Yes. Claire's a lot older, too. I was trying to see if she had a boyfriend or anyone else, so...
THERAPIST: Have you been into anybody in a while?
CLIENT: No. Into anybody? You mean interested?
THERAPIST: Yes.
CLIENT: No. And so I went to someone I was friends with that I know she used to play ultimate Handball with. They were friends and all her photos and everything, they all [inaudible at 00:21:07] public. So I didn't notice any boyfriend. She was with a small child in a couple of the pictures so I assume that's her niece. I don't know. Oh no. I got this stuff all over me. My nice suit is at the cleaners; I forgot to go pick it up. So this used to be my nice suit. Not sure what that is. Think I look professional? Would you give me closings?
THERAPIST: Oh yes. Absolutely. [00:22:36]
CLIENT: Did kind of panic this morning because today was street cleaning and I woke up at 7:30 and tried taking a shower and Buddy wouldn't take his medication. He gives me a hard time about it and I was getting more pissed off at him. It's like the tablets he can, seems to be able to swallow, but these capsules he has more difficulty with. I just left it on the floor and gave him a clean one. I couldn't even pick it up with my fingers. My apartment's a wreck. I probably should clean his cage, put a bunch of newspaper down. Can't smell it so I figured it's okay. He's less of a pain in the ass.
THERAPIST: Good.
CLIENT: Once I realized that by talking to the doctor that his going to the bathroom in the house was diarrhea and not related to the medication or anything like that, it was a huge relief. He's been a big source of stress for me.
THERAPIST: Absolutely. Do you know what's causing the diarrhea? [00:24:49]
CLIENT: No. There's no parasites or - I'm not really sure if he's - he's actually had it for quite some time. I just don't know, it was just looser, it wasn't like squirting. And so he's had it for a few weeks and I don't know. Maybe he's had a bug or something that he's gotten over or I don't know. He probably just had a mild case and I let it go so far that it got worse. I was seeing lots of blood. That's why I called the vet. Apparently when they have diarrhea their blood vessels constrict around their pooper. I think there's a scientific term for that. So you can see some blood.
THERAPIST: I was going to ask you what that meant but I think I understand, yes. [00:26:04]
CLIENT: But there's been no blood, today, this morning. Last night actually at 1:30 in the morning was when I - it was formed, you can actually pick it up with a bag. Wish I didn't have a Board meeting tonight. I just kind of want to go home and take a nap.
THERAPIST: That's the thing on the farm?
CLIENT: Yes. I think I, I don't know if I mentioned that I went to this thing for Union Square Main Street's...
THERAPIST: Yes, I think you may have mentioned that you were going to go, but...
CLIENT: They want to put me on the business development committee, which, I don't know. I mean the people who have been doing stuff forever in Plymouth don't have an advantage over me because so many people are new and moving into the area. So if I can connect with those people. But I've got to do something to grow my Plymouth business. It's kind of full-hearted now that I don't live there and you got to explain to everybody I'm separated I live in here but my house is on a different street. When I say that people think I live there. It's still my house. Well, it's still the bank's house; it's still my liability.
THERAPIST: Well put, I guess. [00:28:04]
CLIENT: Looks like we're going to have three new people in E&amp;G.;
THERAPIST: Good. That includes their dogs for the membership drive?
CLIENT: Sort of, yes. One of the guys, one other woman came before that but she came to Visitor Day, and another, an electrician came to Visitor Day. And one of the financial planners came to the Visitor Day but then I sent an e-mail, it's a very coveted seat, so I sent an e-mail to E&G; Mass (ph) and they've just been sending, there's probably been seven or eight people come through. So...
THERAPIST: So what number does that put you at?
CLIENT: I think we're at 13. But at least it adds energy, spices things up a little bit. Dog hairs. I was worried. One of the women, one of the flooring people in the group are renewing, decided not to go to another chapter. That's the thing that just kind of halt the attrition. And that makes a big difference getting new members in there. Need to get a phone line in Pembroke just for my fax machine. $200 something just to install. That's ridiculous.
THERAPIST: You can't just go online, scanning online and faxing them? [00:30:25]
CLIENT: I could but it's really not how I do things. I have to buy a fax machine and I need something for inbound faxes. I forward my faxes through my Efax, but not all documents are - I mean it just doesn't seem - just not, I don't know how you'd - tall scanning thing and it's just not a part of how I do things with closings. And I've had to do it...
THERAPIST: Yes because of your work flow, workflow...
CLIENT: Yes, I had to do it the last closing because I didn't have a fax machine. It's nice to just have a fax machine. We'll only pay $50 a month. I just hope I can get my old number back. They told me to take a temporary number and then try to get the old number back. Not exactly sure how that works. Go with Comcast so that's a real phone line. Uses a modem but it's not in place over IP. That means, this had better work. You have to buy into a year agreement.
THERAPIST: I see. [00:32:21]
CLIENT: That's what, if I wanted a three-year agreement, it only would've been $70 for the installation. But I don't know how long I would have the fax line. And as long as I move and take it with me it's not a big deal. Or if I move somewhere where Comcast is not available I don't get penalized either, so. It's just one more expense I can't afford.
THERAPIST: So I'm not sure what's the chicken and what's the egg here but it seems like there's some combination of some things going better. A little more business, being able to get out a little more and being able to do a little bit more for work, stay a little more focused. [00:34:10]
CLIENT: Yes. I don't know what I'm supposed to do for Mother's Day for Jess.
THERAPIST: What are your thoughts?
CLIENT: I don't know. Take the kids to the flower shop after his soccer and have him pick out some flowers for her. I ain't picking him up on tomorrow so I guess they could do something with him, but it just seems like too much effort. I'm not going to send flowers to my mom or my step-mom like I normally do. I just can't afford it. Was thinking of taking Ian to the grocery store and seeing if we could get some cheap roses. There's also a place right up the street from my house. But I wouldn't get roses. Whatever I do is going to be insufficient or wrong in some way. If I got just roses, oh roses that didn't take any thought. Instead of hey can you just give me $50 worth of flowers? I used to go in there and say save my marriage; here's $50. But now I don't think there's anything that could save it at this point.
THERAPIST: We should stop now. Hope the meeting goes well.
CLIENT: Yes, I do too. Thanks.
THERAPIST: Yes. [00:36:59]
END TRANSCRIPT
