TRANSCRIPT OF DVD:
BRIEF THERAPY IN ACTION: ANXIETY, AROUSAL, OR ANGER
______________________________________________________________________________
BEGIN TRANSCRIPT:
COUNSELOR: Hi, Melissa
PATIENT: Hi.
COUNSELOR: Maybe one place for us to begin in the time that we have...can you tell me something about why you've come in? What would you like to get in the limited time we have together? What would you like to get out of that time? 
PATIENT: Well, any kind of advice or technique that I could learn to use to maybe manage some anxiety I'm having or some stress right now would be good. That would probably be the first reason I came in. And then also because this I hear is a very good experience to have and so I thought I should take advantage of it.
COUNSELOR: Which is a good experience? 
PATIENT: Meeting you.
COUNSELOR: (chuckles) I see. Because meeting me is magic? 
PATIENT: (laughs) Well, not meeting you in particular. I didn't know I was going to be meeting you.
COUNSELOR: Okay.
PATIENT: But just having somebody as qualified as you coming in - so I thought I should take advantage of that. 
COUNSELOR: Okay. But the major thing then is some things to do about anxiety?
PATIENT: Yeah.
COUNSELOR: Okay. What would you like to learn to control? What about anxiety would you like to deal with because that is a big term?
PATIENT: Probably the affects that it has on me in terms of the way I act when I'm feeling a lot of anxiety. For instance, it brings out my temper where I can't deal with things as well as I'd like to instead of talking to people or communicating to people what I need, I yell instead. And I'd really like to learn some techniques to control that. [2:21]
COUNSELOR: So when you get stressed you lose your temper? That's one thing that happens.
PATIENT: Yeah.
COUNSELOR: And when you lose your temper you say things or do things that don't help or it may even hurt?
PATIENT: Yeah.
COUNSELOR: Okay. What else about anxiety would you like to learn about or learn to deal with?
PATIENT: Really that's about it. Just the -
COUNSELOR: Controlling your temper when you get anxious? 
PATIENT: The temper issue. Yeah.
COUNSELOR: Well maybe it would help me - people respond to anxiety in a number of different ways as you probably know. What does it take, from zero to 10, zero; you open your eyes in the morning and you're already anxious. Ten is, oh, god, it takes a national disaster to get you anxious. What does it take to get you anxious? [3:29]
PATIENT: Probably about a four.
COUNSELOR: About a four. Okay. So what would be an example of something that would raise your anxiety enough so that you lose your temper?
PATIENT: It could be a car pulling out in front of me on my way to work. It could be just be - I live at home right now with my parents and my two brothers and it could be a simple thing like one of my brothers goes in my room and maybe leaves his laundry in there or something; an invasion of privacy or something like that. That's enough to set it off. 
COUNSELOR: So if you're driving to work and someone pulls out in front of you without looking or not giving you the right of way, you would get anxious then angry?
PATIENT: Yeah.
COUNSELOR: And what would you do?
PATIENT: It would just kind of build up inside the anger to where you feel your heart racing and you're thinking cussing and swearing at the guy and he can't hear you because he's a couple of cars ahead of you. So it's just - I realize I shouldn't be doing while I'm doing it but it's so hard to control it. It just kind of happens. [4:52]
COUNSELOR: It just happens. So it's not just anxiety but the anger; how to control the anger. 
PATIENT: Right.
COUNSELOR: Is this a new problem; something that just started with you  - ?
PATIENT: No.
COUNSELOR: - or is this an old pattern?
PATIENT: Yes, this is for as long as I can remember I've always been like this. 
COUNSELOR: How far back? Can you remember being a two year old and someone took your toy? 
PATIENT: Probably not that far back. More like in my teen years.
COUNSELOR: Can you think of an example of what happened in your teens where you got anxious and angry? 
PATIENT: Oh, sure. Let's see. Well, my parents had separated when I was a teenager so that made me very anxious. And then when my father came back I kind of harbored a lot of resentment towards him so if he walked in the room and said something - maybe it wasn't even meant to be a negative comment, but I took it that way - that could set me off. And I'd start feeling all anxious and get real angry at him and he didn't necessarily do anything. It was just a feeling I was having. [6:14]
COUNSELOR: So he might - you'd be watching television and he walk in the room and say, "What are you watching, Melissa?" and you'd get furious? 
PATIENT: No, nothing like that. It would maybe be - I don't know - like "Why are you watching this?" or "I want to watch the game" or something. And he'd walk over to the TV and just turn it off. And it was ignorance on his part but my behavior towards him wasn't exactly good either.
COUNSELOR: Let me just see if I understand. It wasn't simply that he said something but he said something that intruded on your world?
PATIENT: Um-hmm.
COUNSELOR: And when your brother leaves laundry in your room, the invasion of privacy is an intrusion into your world?
PATIENT: Right.
COUNSELOR: And when someone cuts out in front of you it's in the same kind of way an intrusion into your space. 
PATIENT: Um-hmm.
COUNSELOR: "Hey, that was my space and you've taken it."
PATIENT: Yeah.
COUNSELOR: Am I hearing you right, Melissa, that what gets you most angry is when people intrude on your space? 
PATIENT: That's true.
COUNSELOR: Is that right?
PATIENT: Um-hmm.
COUNSELOR: Does that always make you angry or are there times that you get less angry or even more angry?
PATIENT: No, there are times that I can deal with people doing things like that. For instance, at work where I kind of have to be more in control; if a customer comes to my teller window and is yelling for some reason or another because the ATM machine outside isn't working. It's not my fault but I have to bite my tongue and not let that anger out in the way that I'm used to letting it out with say my father or my brothers or somebody on the road that I don't know. So no there are times that I can deal with it. Well, I don't think I'm really dealing with it in the right way but there are times that I bite my tongue and don't let it get the best of me. [8:11]
COUNSELOR: So if a customer comes in and says, "The ATM machine's not working," you don't say, "Well, try sticking your tongue in it or something?" You wouldn't be rude.
PATIENT: (laughs) No.
COUNSELOR: But if your brother does something you might be more forceful?
PATIENT: Right. Yeah, I'm more likely to put him in his place.
COUNSELOR: Okay. Why is this a problem that you want to deal with? I mean you've been doing it a long time and - 
PATIENT: Yeah, well...
COUNSELOR: What's your motivation to change it at this point?
PATIENT: Well, basically I don't like the kind of person I am when that anger comes out. It's not a very nice person. It's a person who is yelling and swearing and it's just not good. I think I just have a really bad temper. I've already learned that it's okay to have anger and its okay to express it but it's just the way I'm doing it I think is a problem. 
COUNSELOR: Okay. What I'd like you to do, Melissa, I'm going to ask you in a moment to close your eyes. Don't do it yet. Let me tell you what I want you to do. Close your eyes. And I want you to picture the image of the person who handles their anger well. So if you could handle your anger the way you think you should - I'm going to ask you to close your eyes and picture that and describe it so I know what your goal or ideal would be. 
PATIENT: Okay.
COUNSELOR: Now close your eyes and picture that. And you come into your room and there is your brother's laundry. How would you handle it if you were that different person that you would like to be? 
PATIENT: Well, I wouldn't start yelling and screaming right off the bat. I'd  - 
COUNSELOR: Explain to me what you would do.
PATIENT: I'd probably ask them to pick it up or ask them the question why they did it in the first place. 
COUNSELOR: Okay. So you say, "Gee, why is your laundry in my room," and your brother says, "Because I felt like leaving it there." [10:25]
PATIENT: Yeah, that would - (chuckles) see right there I wouldn't know what to say just because I don't know how to handle it. So I wouldn't know what to say.
COUNSELOR: So you know you'd like to be different, but it's not clear to you how different would look?
PATIENT: Yeah.
COUNSELOR: Because as I asked you how would you handle it in that other way - whatever that other way is - you're not quite sure what it would look like?
PATIENT: Yeah, that's true because I really - the people that live in the house with me; the people I've grown up with are pretty much the same way. 
COUNSELOR: So you've come by it honestly?
PATIENT: Uh-hmm. Yeah, my whole family is pretty much the same way. So it's not like I can look at somebody that's close to me and say, "Oh, okay, I see what I'm doing wrong." It's not like I've had a good example set. 
COUNSELOR: So we know what you don't want to be. You don't want to be like all of them.
PATIENT: Right. 
COUNSELOR: But you're not sure what you do want to be. I don't know. Do you see yourself as Mother Teresa?
PATIENT: No. (chuckles)
COUNSELOR: No. So that's an extreme. You don't want to be that good. 
PATIENT: No.
COUNSELOR: But you don't want to be the way you see yourself to be.
PATIENT: Right.
COUNSELOR: So somewhere between Melissa and Mother Teresa, there's something?
PATIENT: Uh-hmm.
COUNSELOR: Do you have an idea - not in your family necessarily - but of anyone that you know where you say to yourself, "Boy if only I could be like him or her or whoever it is?"
PATIENT: I've had a couple of friends in the past who have been able to handle stressful situations pretty well. I rarely see them explode and get angry. They're probably better communicators than I am. I'm sure that helps being able to talk about things rather than just argue about them than yell. So I guess if I had to look for a pattern to try to be like somebody it would be somebody like that. [12:43]
COUNSELOR: You have a person in mind though? 
PATIENT: Yeah, I guess I have. I had a girlfriend once who was like that.
COUNSELOR: Let's make up a name first. We don't have to even name her. Let's make up a name. Think of a name for her so that we can refer to her.
PATIENT: Carrie. 
COUNSELOR: Carrie. Okay. So if you could be like Carrie what would you look like? You come into your room. Your brother's laundry is there and you say, "Why is this here?" He says, "I dropped it and decided to leave it there." And Carrie would say what.
PATIENT: Well, "Pick it up please and don't do it again." And she'd probably use a calmer tone and wouldn't use any vulgarities. That's for sure. She would just be calm and forceful at the same time but she would get her point across. Of course, she doesn't live in the same household I do and that's the problem too. The people I live with don't necessarily respond to you even when you do speak calmly and rationally towards them.
COUNSELOR: Do they respond better when you yell or curse?
PATIENT: No.
COUNSELOR: Okay, so yelling, cursing, and carrying on doesn't have a huge positive effect. And talking gently and calmly doesn't have a great effect. 
PATIENT: Not too much. 
COUNSELOR: Okay. So there isn't a lot that you're going to do that's going to have an effect, is that right?
PATIENT: Yeah.
COUNSELOR: What you're describing - if I'm hearing you right, Melissa - is that what you've learned over many years is an aggressive style. As opposed to what you described with your friend Carrie as a more assertive style. Do you understand the difference between those two?
PATIENT: Uh-hmm.
COUNSELOR: Tell me back what you understand the difference between those two to be.
PATIENT: Between an aggressive style and an assertive?
COUNSELOR: Yeah. 
PATIENT: Well, an aggressive would probably be somebody who is more like me where you just kind of reach out and grab at things. You don't really think about the consequences. You just kind of speak what's on your mind and don't worry about the effect it's going to have on anybody else; even yourself at times. [15:04]
COUNSELOR: Okay. 
PATIENT: Someone who's more assertive would probably get their point across better. And whatever they were meaning to do would probably come across - it would just probably happen more for them than it would for somebody who is more aggressive. I don't know. 
COUNSELOR: You'd be able to get more of what you want without all of the upset.
PATIENT: Yeah. 
COUNSELOR: Without the yelling, the screaming, the cursing; whatever it is.
PATIENT: Yeah.
COUNSELOR: Because what I hear you saying is that you don't like you that way.
PATIENT: Oh, no, I don't. 
COUNSELOR: So if you could be different, you might like you better?
PATIENT: I like me fine. It's just that when I do blow up, I don't like that.
COUNSELOR: You don't like that part of you?
PATIENT: Right. Right. [16:00]
COUNSELOR: Okay. I appreciate just separating those two things out and keeping me on target. So it's not that you don't like Melissa - you don't like you - there's a part of you - you say, "Gee I wish were different." 
PATIENT: Right. 
COUNSELOR: I'm not pleased with that.
PATIENT: Right. And I really think that if I could change it I would be more - a healthier person; could have healthier relationships and I think it would just help out better in the long run.
COUNSELOR: Probably less strain on your digestive tract and  - 
PATIENT: Oh, sure! Yeah. (chuckles)
COUNSELOR: - be a whole lot less strain on your body.
PATIENT: Uh-hmm.
COUNSELOR: Okay. Well let's talk about some things that you might look at; ways of starting to think about that. One of the things that I think would be an interesting experiment - you said you like science. You told me that before we went on camera you like science. Would you be interested in trying an experiment - a scientific experiment? 
PATIENT: Maybe. (laughs)
COUNSELOR: All right, let me tell you what the experiment is. I have a hunch. I have a hypothesis - we'll be very scientific - I have a hypothesis that the people you live with are used to seeing you a certain way and that if you were different they might have some trouble with that. That's my hunch.
PATIENT: Okay.
COUNSELOR: What do you think so far?
PATIENT: You could be right.
COUNSELOR: So that if suddenly you came home tonight and you found your brother's laundry in your room and you handled it differently than you usually do. For example - let's compare two things - we'll set up this experiment. You're smiling. I don't know if you're getting interested in this.
PATIENT: (laughs) I am.
COUNSELOR: You are, huh? Okay. You come home tonight and there's your brother's laundry in your room. What would you normally say? 
PATIENT: I would probably start yelling or snap at him and say  - 
COUNSELOR: Do - show me exactly what you'd do. I'm your brother. What would you do?
PATIENT: Take the laundry, throw it at him, tell him, "Get out of my room"...
COUNSELOR: You'd take the laundry and you'd just kind of throw it at him? And say, "What the hell are you doing this for?" "It really gets me angry?" What would you say to him? 
PATIENT: I'd go off on him. I would just tell him, "Stay out of my room. What are you doing?"
COUNSELOR: You'd raise your voice?
PATIENT: Yeah. Yeah.
COUNSELOR: You'd curse?
PATIENT: Definitely. Yeah.
COUNSELOR: Definitely. We don't want to do that on tape. 
PATIENT: No. (laughs)
COUNSELOR: Definitely don't want to do that on tape. And he's used to your doing that?
PATIENT: Uh-hmm.
COUNSELOR: But he leaves his laundry there anyway or does other things...
PATIENT: Other things. Yeah. 
COUNSELOR: ... that gets you just as upset. What do you think would happen if when that happens - he does something - that you act as if you were Carrie? You act - you'd play a role. You say, "Okay, I'm going to act Carrie - 'esque'." "I'm going to act as I think Carrie would." Your brother's name? [19:35]
PATIENT: Jeff.
COUNSELOR: Jeff. "Jeff, I really don't appreciate you leaving your laundry in my room. I would appreciate your taking it out now. Thank you." No cursing, no yelling. Eye contact. How would Jeff react?
PATIENT: It's hard to say. Like you said, he's kind of used to my behavior being a certain way. I really don't think he takes me seriously at all. 
COUNSELOR: But what if you acted Carrie-"esque"? 
PATIENT: It's hard to say. It might work. It could if it was something that was a little bit more - not the laundry thing - something a little bit more drastic. I don't know that he would act any different if I was calm with him.
COUNSELOR: Do you think if you were calm and collected and focused and you kept doing that for a while, he'd run and say, "Mom, something's wrong with Melissa. She's not feeling well. She's too calm. She's not yelling. She's not cursing." Do you think they'd think there was something wrong with you? 
PATIENT: Yeah, they might. (chuckles)
COUNSELOR: So here's my hunch. My hunch is that people are used to seeing you a certain way and it might be some interesting data for you to act differently and evaluate the result of your different action. To see how people react - your family in particular - react to you acting differently. It's an experiment. My hunch is they're going to get upset because they're used to seeing you a certain way. And the way they're used to seeing you is a way that that part of you; you don't like. Am I hearing you right?
PATIENT: Uh-hmm.
COUNSELOR: So it would be interesting because the hunch I have is somehow there's an interaction that keeps you doing stuff that you're not happy with. Do you think that's possible?
PATIENT: Sure. 
COUNSELOR: Would you be willing (break in audio @ 21:40) as an experiment?
PATIENT: Yes.
COUNSELOR: For a couple of days just...(breathes out heavily) "Jeff, I don't appreciate when you leave your stuff in my room" or "Jeff, I don't appreciate you taking things that belong to me. I would prefer that you don't do that. In the future, please stay out of my room. Thank you." Over. That's it.
PATIENT: Okay, I'll try it. (chuckles) Give it a shot.
COUNSELOR: What's your prediction of what will happen? Let's try to think through. What would you predict to happen? 
PATIENT: Well, it couldn't get any worse.
COUNSELOR: Okay. So you can't lose anything by that?
PATIENT: Right.
COUNSELOR: Okay, so that's good news. What's your prediction here though, Melissa?
PATIENT: Well, my prediction probably would be that he might want to do what I ask him just because I'm not yelling at him. You know little brothers - you know how they are - they're just defiant when you're yelling at them. They want to do the exact opposite of what you're telling them not to do. So I'm sure - he could. He could. [22:50]
COUNSELOR: One possibility is you're going to shake up the system, right?
PATIENT: Sure. 
COUNSELOR: And that'll be interesting data  - just an experiment - interesting data for you to use in your counseling work to see what you discover from that experiment. It'll be interesting to see. One of the things I want to make sure I explain to you is that in situations like this there are certain things you can expect. If you stop interacting that way - in the old way; the way that you're not happy with - the first thing you're going to see is a slight increase. And ideally that's what you're going to get - ideally. But understand initially what's going to happen. You may get more of the very thing you're trying to stop. 
PATIENT: Okay.
COUNSELOR: And if you keep being calmer there's going to be an escalation. "Come on, let's get her back yelling and cursing and carrying on because that's our Melissa!" So you may get and escalation initially. And then when people find it's not so much fun anymore because you're acting differently. You don't have to be less angry. I'm suggesting you act less angry. Do you understand the difference here?
PATIENT: Yeah.
COUNSELOR: And the goal is what? Let me just go over that again.
PATIENT: The goal is to be calmer; get my point across; not blow up. 
COUNSELOR: And the goal of trying this experiment is what? [24:43]
PATIENT: Is to talk to the people I'm around differently.
COUNSELOR: Right. And to evaluate how they respond to a different Melissa. Do they come up to you and say, "Are you feeling okay because you're not yelling and cursing the way you're supposed to?" So that's one thing you can try as an experiment. There's another piece that I'm thinking about that I'd like to have you look at. And that has to do with the way that any of us process information. You said on this kind of thermometer idea you're a four. So it doesn't take a whole lot to get you going.
PATIENT: Right.
COUNSELOR: I wonder what are you thinking about? What thoughts do you have? What goes on in your head that then leads to anger? For example, if you were to get a phone call - okay, I'm going to write that down...gets a phone call - and someone says, "Melissa, please come to a party." Would that make you angry?
PATIENT: No.
COUNSELOR: No. How would you end up feeling?
PATIENT: I'd feel good. 
COUNSELOR: Feel good. Okay. Let's suppose you get a phone call - I'm just going to write down "call" - and someone says to you, "We'd like you to come to a party. Don't especially want you but we need some more women." Okay?
PATIENT: Okay. 
COUNSELOR: So that's A, B. How would you end up feeling?
PATIENT: I wouldn't get real angry but I'd just kind of go like, "Awhhh!" - like kind of appalled; like, "The nerve." 
COUNSELOR: Okay. Appalled. Okay. Let's suppose you get a call and you end up angry. What do you think would have to happen here to make you angry? Can you give me an example of what would make you angry?
PATIENT: Yeah, not getting the message in the first place.
COUNSELOR: Okay. Missed message. And you'd be angry?
PATIENT: Oh, sure.
COUNSELOR: Because you'd be saying what to yourself? What would you say to yourself that would then lead to your being angry, Melissa?
PATIENT: Well, like I said, I live in a household with five other people so my messages to me are important because they're a part of my life. I have different people calling me about different things. So if I'm not getting one of my messages - not getting it makes me angry because I feel like I'm not getting the respect that I think I should have especially when I'm the kind of person who would do something like that for the other members in the house. It makes me even more angry when I think of it that way. [28:15]
COUNSELOR: So two things that would get you angry is when you say to yourself, "I'm not getting respect."
PATIENT: Uh-hmm.
COUNSELOR: That would make you angry?
PATIENT: Uh-hmm.
COUNSELOR: Is that right? If you say to yourself, "I would do it for them and they don't reciprocate for me." That would make you angry? Is that right?
PATIENT: Right.
COUNSELOR: Can you give me an example of another thing that you might end up saying to yourself that would lead to your being angry? 
PATIENT: Not really. Not about that?
COUNSELOR: - Or about anything?
PATIENT: Oh.
COUNSELOR: Can you think of something that you would think that would end up with your being angry about it? Let me give you another example. 
PATIENT: Okay.
COUNSELOR: You're driving to work and someone cuts in front of you. And if you say, "What an awful driver!" and that's it; would you be angry? 
PATIENT: Would I be angry? Yeah. I probably would. Yeah.
COUNSELOR: Because?
PATIENT: Because I can't believe the stupidity of some people. It gets on my nerves. (chuckles)
COUNSELOR: If you say, "People should not be stupid and they should not drive in a particular way," you get angry?
PATIENT: I get angry when I see people endangering the lives of others. That makes me angry no matter what so it could be on the road, it could be with anything. It could be anything. It could be seeing a mother with her kid in the store and she's not holding onto his hand and he's only two years old. That makes me angry. [29:58]
COUNSELOR: Is it what you see that gets you angry or is it the way you process it internally that you gets you angry? 
PATIENT: I think it's the way I process it because probably somebody else could be looking at it and thinking something totally different or maybe somebody else that's not making them angry. 
COUNSELOR: So part of the difficulty is not simply what you see but how you process what you see. 
PATIENT: Uh-hmm. Yeah.
COUNSELOR: Is that - am I hearing you right on that? 
PATIENT: Uh-hmm.
COUNSELOR: So if you could process it differently what effect do you think that would have?
PATIENT: Well, I'm sure that that would help but you're going to have your certain feelings so if it's a feeling that you have and it's strong I don't think there's really any other way to process it. Take for instance if I'm seeing somebody that's driving on the road and they're weaving in and out of lanes or whatever, I'm going to process it the same way no matter what because it's a stupid thing to do.
COUNSELOR: Right.
PATIENT: And it's risking the lives of others.
COUNSELOR: You're right. If you said to yourself, "That's a stupid thing to do. They're risking someone else's life," "How inappropriate. How awful. I'm going to call the police and turn - if you have a car phone. I don't know if you have a car phone - "I'm going to call the police and give them that guy's number." 
PATIENT: Uh-hmm.
COUNSELOR: But what you're describing is you get furious and you start yelling and cursing and of course they can't hear you. 
PATIENT: Yeah. 
COUNSELOR: So you're paying a price and nothing happens to them.
PATIENT: Right.
COUNSELOR: But you're paying a price because now you're guts churning.
PATIENT: Yeah.
COUNSELOR: So you're right. I think if we took a vote of anyone around and said, "Do you think dangerous drivers make you feel good?" "No, they scare me and I try to keep away from them." But I don't think everyone gets as angry as you do and that's because people process it differently. My question for you is to identify the particular style of processing that you learned in your house. [32:16]
PATIENT: What do you mean style?
COUNSELOR: What you described, Melissa is that everyone in your house acts pretty much the same way.
PATIENT: Oh, yeah.
COUNSELOR: So this is a style of your family.
PATIENT: Uh-hmm.
COUNSELOR: Did you ever see the movie "Annie Hall" - The Woody Allen film?
PATIENT: No, I didn't.
COUNSELOR: No? There's a wonderful scene that compares different family styles. It's a split screen. And on one half of the screen is Annie Hall. They're having a very quiet, candlelit dinner and they're discussing politics and music and it's a very quiet; very gentle dinner. And Woody Allen; his family lives under the rollercoaster at Coney Island. And it's noisy and there's yelling and there's arguing. And you see two very different family styles. And each family style is really generated by the kinds of ideas they have. So if one believes - one family style is, "People should say whatever's on their mind no matter what it is." You get people who are much more confrontational. On the other hand, if you say, "You should never discuss your feelings," you may get people who get ulcers or headaches or other kinds of problems. So neither is an ideal but both reflect the way you see things. So one of the questions I have for you is what is it about your style - again, reflective of your family style - that leads to your being angry more than you'd like? [34:00]
PATIENT: Probably the fact that they're very impulsive where if something angers them, they're more likely to just lash out rather than sit calmly and discuss something. There really aren't any discussions in my household.
COUNSELOR: Despite consequences...hurt feelings?
PATIENT: It's rare. It's really rare. There's not a whole lot of communication that goes on in the house. Let's just put it that way. It's not very - I don't think it's very healthy. 
COUNSELOR: And you don't like that part of you?
PATIENT: Well, yeah, I don't like the fact that I'm actually in the setting in the first place. If I could be out of it I would but I can't really afford to move out right now. 
COUNSELOR: That's part of a whole different issue.
PATIENT: Yeah. And then the fact that I was raised that way so it rubbed off on me. So I don't like that. I do see it. I see what's wrong and I do want to change it. But wow! Trying to get other people in the house to acknowledge it is like forget it. (chuckles)
COUNSELOR: Why do they have to acknowledge it?
PATIENT: It's not that they have to but there have been times where it's come up. And so I might say to somebody, "I see a lot of this in you too. I think you guys could really learn to communicate better yourselves." Or maybe I'll say something like, "Why did you just lash out at me like that? When I do that you don't respond well to that. So when you do it, you're going to get the same reaction from me." They don't really see it themselves. [35:59]
COUNSELOR: Yeah. Well it'll be interesting - if you follow through on the experiment - what effect that will have if you start acting differently; how they'll react to that. 
PATIENT: Well, I'll give it a try.
COUNSELOR: It should be interesting. The other thing that I think will be helpful for you is to really begin to examine this process. The process that says, "It doesn't matter what I say." To just be impulsive; don't worry about the consequences; just get it off your chest as quickly as possible. And it's a part of you that after you do it you say, "I don't like that much. That's not the way I want to be."
PATIENT: Right.
COUNSELOR: "That's not the way I want people to see me." And that's going to be changing a part of you that's been around for a long time. 
PATIENT: Yeah. Yeah, because I've pretty much been like that since as long as I can remember. 
COUNSELOR: That's what you said before. So this is going to be a hard job. Not an impossible job but it's a hard job given that it's been going on for a long time. 
PATIENT: Yeah.
COUNSELOR: It means changing something that's a part of you. That's a biggie.
PATIENT: Uh-hmm. Yeah, but that's why I'm here. (laughs)
COUNSELOR: So you're willing to try to do that?
PATIENT: Oh, yeah. Yeah. Definitely.
COUNSELOR: If you could be more assertive - if you could be less volatile, would you feel better or worse about yourself?
PATIENT: If I could be more assertive? 
COUNSELOR: Yeah. Ask for what you want; say what you want without yelling and cursing.
PATIENT: Oh, yeah.
COUNSELOR: Would you feel better or worse about yourself?
PATIENT: I think I'd feel better.
COUNSELOR: Feel better. Would you be more pleased with yourself or more angry that you didn't get all your emotions out?
PATIENT: No, I'd be more pleased with myself. I'd still want to get all the emotions that I'm having out. Just in a different way. But I'd be pleased with that if I could do that.
COUNSELOR: So that's something you'd like to be able to do?
PATIENT: Uh-hmm.
COUNSELOR: So the motivation to do that is good?
PATIENT: Yeah. Definitely.
COUNSELOR: Okay. We'll see how your family likes that. The different you. How about your friends? Would your friends  - ? [38:31]
PATIENT: My friends see this in me also. I have a couple of very close friends that I've been friends with for a lot of years and they see it in me too; the temper and aggressiveness.
COUNSELOR: Would they like you better or - would it be better or worse in relating to them?
PATIENT: Well, with them - since I'm not around them as much as my family - it's not as big of an issue with them. I'm sure they would be happy for me if I could learn to control my temper a bit. But it's not as big of an issue with them because I'm not around them enough to where I need to lash out at them.
COUNSELOR: Would it affect the way you are in relationships with the people at work?
PATIENT: To a point, I think so, yeah. When you're working with somebody - yeah, actually, see I haven't worked in a couple of years. I actually just got this job a couple of months ago so I expect I'm going to need to learn control with them as well. Because I'm with them five days out of the week so  - 
COUNSELOR: Several hours a day...
PATIENT: Yeah. Yeah.
COUNSELOR: How about in just other relationships? Is that something that would be helpful?
PATIENT: Oh, definitely. Yeah.
COUNSELOR: So this is something - so there are lots of reasons to try to make this change. And do you think this is a good time to try to do that? 
PATIENT: It's a very good time.
COUNSELOR: Why? What makes this a good time?
PATIENT: I'm going through a lot of changes myself and I'm just looking into the future. I want to be able to have healthy relationships with all different kinds of people. So I just feel the way to do that is just to learn to communicate better and like I said control my temper, which I think is the worst part about myself so (laughs)....[40:39]
COUNSELOR: I'm trying to make a list here of some things that you can start to work on in the counseling work. One is a term you've used several times. That's communication; to communicate differently. And the key, I think, would be to be more assertive. Increase your assertive behavior and decrease the aggressive behavior. [41:09]
PATIENT: Right.
COUNSELOR: Would you agree with that?
PATIENT: Yeah.
COUNSELOR: Okay. A second piece is to try out new ways of behaving to do this little experiment at home to see what the result will be. It may have no result. They may not even notice. Let's suppose they don't even notice you're being different. What would that say to you, Melissa? Here you are working hard to be different and they don't even notice!
PATIENT: Yeah, it wouldn't really say too much I guess. They would notice. They would notice.
COUNSELOR: Okay. They would notice. 
PATIENT: Yeah. (chuckles)
COUNSELOR: A third thing is to try to identify the process that then leads to anger; to understand what's going on in your head that then gets you feeling angry; how you're seeing things. Would that make sense?
PATIENT: Yeah.
COUNSELOR: So there are three pieces that you might work on in the ongoing counseling work that you're doing. Do those sound like reasonable things to work on?
PATIENT: Oh, yeah.
COUNSELOR: Okay. Our time's almost up. As we're coming to kind of close this session down, Melissa - how are you feeling about this session; the time we've spent?
PATIENT: I'm feeling good. I feel like I have a goal...the experiment that you gave me. So that's good because it gives me something to look forward to when I go home because I don't look forward to going home. (laughs)
COUNSELOR: But again, you're going to be a scientist now. 
PATIENT: That's right.
COUNSELOR: I want you to be very scientific. You're going to think, "How am I going to do this?" and you're going to collect your data (inaudible@ 43:04) make some notes to yourself and bring it in for the counseling session. Have your counselor or therapist talk with you about that. That would be good to see.
PATIENT: Yeah, definitely.
COUNSELOR: Any other things you're taking home with you today?
PATIENT: Just the goal would be the biggest part.
COUNSELOR: Which one?
PATIENT: The one with going home and trying to change my attitude.
COUNSELOR: Trying to act differently. 
PATIENT: Uh-hmm.
COUNSELOR: Okay. I'm going to give you this. And you can take that home with you so it will be easier to remember. 
PATIENT: Thank you.
COUNSELOR: Before we end, did I say anything that upset you or hurt you or bothered you?
PATIENT: No, not at all.
COUNSELOR: I always like to check before someone leaves in case I said something insulting or  - 
PATIENT: Oh, no. No. 
COUNSELOR: No?
PATIENT: No, I was very comfortable so you did a good job.
COUNSELOR: I appreciate that. Okay, we'll stop here then and I appreciate your doing this.
PATIENT: Well, thank you.
COUNSELOR: Thanks.
END TRANSCRIPT
