<font size="4"><b>Three: The Glittering Shore</b></font>
[p. <i>[61]</i>]

I LEFT Trudeau and entered the tuberculosis
division of Boston City Hospital as a resident in September,
1949. The contrast between the country atmosphere of
the one and the heavy institutional drabness of the other was
immediate and absolute. I was assigned to a room which
faced an unpleasant courtyard. There was no covering of
any kind on the floorjust grayish boards. When I returned
at the end of day I found flakes of dried paint littering my
bed and desk. My bed was frequently unmade for days on
end. A bathroom containing one sink, one shower and one
toilet served twelve residents. The shower was always filthy
and the paint scalings stuck to my soles, looking like green
tattoos. Even the realization that living conditions here
were no worse than those found in many other large city
institutions did not help me to adjust.


At Trudeau I had had many good friends and in Boston I had
very few. Although one of the other residents had attended
medical school with me, I had never been close to him, and

[p. <i>62</i>]

Perhaps most discouraging of all were the doctors. At
Trudeau the staff had all been patients at some time, and,
therefore, brought an interest and compassion to their work.
A majority of the staff of the tuberculosis division of Boston
City Hospital seemed to be there for other reasonseither
because they needed to earn money there while they were
building up their practices or because treating tuberculosis
patients was a part of their service to the hospital. These men
felt no real involvement with what they were doing and
openly voiced fear and dislike of what they considered a
disagreeable job.


There were many patients who had been lying around
for years, patients who could be helped by surgery. However,
it takes work to evaluate for surgery; it is easier to play safe
by writing "cardiac disease" in a patient's record and so keep
him off the operating table. There were several patients whom
I saved from spending lifetimes on the wards by taking them
to surgery; but, besides themselves, I seemed to be the only
one who cared.


To fight the melancholy which soon took hold of me, I
threw myself into my work. I had charge of an enormous ward
of one hundred patients, and I often received calls to other
wards. Sensing my feeling of kinship and sympathy with
them, the patients made great demands of medemands I
found difficult to resist. Because I had practiced for over a

[p. <i>63</i>]

I went out rarely, to a dinner date or a movie. Most of my
leisure time I spent in the depressing environment of my
shabby room. I was the only resident who lived in and there
were moments when the quiet was nerve-shattering. I even
hated the Boston winter in which the same snow which had
covered the Adirondacks with an innocent, sparkling whiteness
quickly changed into a dreary, slushy obscenity.


It was in these circumstances of gloom and squalor and
hopelessness that I experienced the fateful attack of gout
which I have already described.


Twice before in my life I had ridden out similar attacks,
once in Mexico and once at Trudeau; but now my cup of
pain seemed too full. Shooting myself with demerol was my
retort to a life whose punishments had become wanton in
their excessiveness


The fact that this response would only bring more pain,
would destroy everything that might possibly have meaning
for me, eluded me in the conditions of the momentas it
would each time afterwards that I turned to narcotics.


The career of an addict is a squirrel cage rotating through
hope, reform, trespass and despair. It was not long after the
die suggestion that I resign from the hospital had been made
that I realized I had no choice. Moreover, it was apparent that
my leaving would be good for everyone concerned. I would
not, every day, have to deal with people who knew my secret,

[p. <i>64</i>]

More: I had the good luck to be able to make a fresh start.
Why not take advantage of it? I had been unhappy in Boston
from the start. Elsewhere were greener pastures. I decided
to make a protracted visit with my parents in Miami Beach;
they had frequently invited me to stay with them. So I wrote
them a letter stating that I was resigning from Boston City
and leaving at once. To explain my sudden decision, I said that
I didn't like the hospital and that I had for some time felt depressed.
Both reasons were true, and my parents had no cause
to suspect any other.


On the drive from Boston to Newark, where I decided to
spend a few days with my sister Lilian, I reviewed the events
which had led to my resigning from the hospital. In trying
to fix the point where I had passed the therapeutic limits of
drug taking and entered the demoralizing purlieus of addiction
in this I failed completely. The transition had been
so viciously subtle that I had not recognized my descent until
the moment I experienced the symptoms of withdrawal.


It was also impossible at this time to think in terms of a
pattern of drug addiction. I had been unhappy, I had been
in pain, I had taken demerol and become addicted; but, as
well as I could understand the problem, I had been cured. It
seemed unlikely that the doctors at the hospital who knew
my secret would ever reveal itparticularly as time dissolved
the memory. One difficulty remained: How to account
for the period of time I had worked at the hospital on any
future application for a medical appointment? If I did list
the hospital with the dates I had resided there, an inquiry

[p. <i>65</i>]

The few days I spent at Lilian's home that April of 1950
were pleasant and satisfying. Both she and Arthur were genuinely
happy to see me in apparent good health and sympathized
with my desire to get out of Boston and go to Florida.
My parents would also be happy to have me near them for a
while, they thought. When I left Newark, it was with a definite
feeling that life for me was beginning all over againan
emotion probably familiar to all sinners and outcasts.


Arrived in Miami Beach, I found the experience of being
home with my parents a thoroughly enjoyable one. It was
years since we had been together for any length of time and
there was much to talk about and to see. My retirement pension
was sufficient for everyday expenses and I, therefore,
felt no urgency to decide about the future. I spent my days
swimming in the clear, tepid water, lolling on the beach,
surrendering my body to the sun, which quickly conferred on
me the bronze tan of its cult of worshippers.


Although it was now April and the seasonal social activities
had come to a close, there was no lack of feminine companionship.
The beach was mobbed with young women who
were residing in Florida for the specific purpose of obtaining
a divorce, and as a personable, unattached male, I found no
difficulty in extending the pleasures of my days into my
nights.


My social life was further enhanced by the renewal of an
acquaintance with a roentgenologist whom I had known
during my internship days in Tampa. Now also living in
Miami Beach, Tommy Birland was an eccentric intellectual
whose apartment was the nearest thing to a Bohemian hangout

[p. <i>66</i>]

I went to Tommy's place on several weekends, but the
idle existence began to pall on me; the women were all alike
and I preferred to lie alone in the sun, thinking of the woman
who outshone all the rest, Angeliquewondering whether
she was married and happy and what it might be like to meet
again.


I gave much time to thoughts of the futureof whether
I wanted to remain here. I liked the climate of Florida, though
I did not care for Miami Beach, and if I took the medical
board examination to practice in the state, I would be able to
live down the disgrace I had suffered in Massachusetts; I could
really start afresh. On hearing one day of a beautiful new
tuberculosis hospital in Lantana which had recently been

[p. <i>67</i>]

After applying for the examination, given in two parts, I
immediately entered a regimen of intensive cramming, utterly
forsaking surf, sand and sun. I took the first part of the examination
in Gainesville in the latter part of May. The amphi-theatre
was so crowded and hot that my clothes wilted and
the ink on my paper became smeared with perspiration. After
completing the first part of the examination, I resumed my
studies for the second part, which was to take place in Jacksonville
two months later.


Meanwhile, after being notified that I had passed the first
part, I applied for a house staff appointment in the Lantana
hospital. Following an interview, I received notice of my
appointment two weeks after taking the second part of the
examination.


Since the hospital would not be ready to admit patients
until the end of September, I found myself with time on my
lands. Eager to start work again, my idleness enforced and
intolerable now, I placed the following classified ad in the
<i>Miami Herald:</i>


Young physician desires to take cruise, preferably
on schooner, in return for medical services.


The results were a little short of astounding. An elderly
woman offered a world tour via the President Lines; a private
research organization offered a voyage to the Mediterranean;
a party of archeologists offered a trip to Andros Island; a man
with a heart condition offered a three-week cruise through the
Bahamas on a private schooner. After a minimum of consideration,

[p. <i>68</i>]

There were seven aboard the handsome three-master besides
myself: the owner of the ship, his wife, their niece and her
husband, a professional underwater photographer, the chief
mate and a Bahaman mate. Shortly after leaving the Florida
coastline, we all voted to go by the relatively uninhabited out
islands rather than the populated resort areas. The thrill of the
vessel's vibrationless motion as she heeled over while tacking
into the winds left me breathless with excitement.


Quickly, we fell into the routine of rising at dawn, consuming
huge quantities of food for breakfast and then hurrying
out to arrange our fishing gear for trolling. We caught barracuda,
bonita, yellowtails, sailfish and grouper. Between times
I often sat in the stern, mesmerized by the strange white
geometric patterns and whirls formed by the ship's wake. I
thought of the kinship I had always felt toward the seaits
violence, its turmoil, its mystery and calman emotion which
reached back perhaps to my childhood in a south shore Long
Island town, where I had spent my first fifteen years.


At times as I stared up at the endless blue of the sky, I
thought of Angelique, who lived under the same sun as that
which now warmed me. Despite the time and distance which
separated us, I could foresee no permanent escape from my
feelings about her; until my mind was no longer able to
weave the fabric of memory, I would remain a prisoner of
that guilt.


I spent many carefree hours assisting the ship's mates, winding
the windlass, hoisting and dropping anchor, hoisting and
lowering sails, and taking soundings when we maneuvered
through shallow waters. Once or twice I was allowed to

[p. <i>69</i>]

As the afternoon waned, the crew took advantage of the
prevailing tides to traverse shallow stretches of water into
harbor-like areas which could afford shelter in case of a
storm at night. Having dropped anchor and lowered the sails,
we sometimes visited the nearest island in a dinghy. If the
island proved to be uninhabited, the men and women separated
and we bathed in the nude. If the island was inhabitedusually
by no more than a dozen peoplewe spent the remaining
hours of daylight with its natives, swapping stories and trading
clothing and cans of coffee for fresh fruits and vegetables.


Dusk swept swiftly across the surface of the sea, moving
in from the distant western horizon. By the time dinner aboard
ship was over, we were surrounded by absolute darkness.
Looking out into the star-stippled night while the water
lapped softly against the hull, I could hardly avoid a feeling of
lonelinessan ache that was intermittently soothed by
friendly disembodied voices and sometimes charmed away by
the mates reciting legends of the origins of the constellations.


Before I knew it, we were on our way home, tanned, rested
and expectant. Whereas I had recently given little thought
to the future, I now began to wonder whether I had passed
the second part of my examination and whether I would soon
be working in the hospital. At no time during the cruise did I
experience any craving for narcotics, nor did I anticipate
using them in the future.


As we approached Bimini, we decided to go ashore for a

[p. <i>70</i>]

We arrived in Miami in a driving rain, and following farewells
and promises to keep in touch with each other, parted
never to meet again. I was healthier, and ten pounds heavier,
than I had ever been in my life. At home all seemed well, and I
soon received word that I had passed the second part of my
examination and was expected to assume my duties at the
hospital in early September, 1950.


Located nine miles south of West Palm Beach, the hospital
was a beautiful new edifice of glass and pastel pink and green
stucco. Everything about it was new, the plant, the equipment,
the furnishings and supplies; and the corridors had the
characteristic smell of all new buildingsa fragrance which
has always delighted me.


My quarters consisted of a new two-bedroom house in a
row of similar houses built for the staff physicians. The house
was simply and tastefully furnished and a maid came every
day to clean and put things in order. Except for the refrigerator,
I hardly knew what to do with all the appliances in the
kitchen, and although allowed to order food from the hospital
stores, I preferred to eat in the employees' dining room.


Establishing my competence, I quickly fell into the routine
of the hospital. I got along with the medical director and the

[p. <i>71</i>]

It did not take me long to become aware of Eleanor, a nurse
who worked on the wards assigned to me. Auburn-haired and
full-breasted, she had the kind of sculptured voluptuousness
which is like a challenge to every overcivilized restraint. Each
glance of her liquid brown eyes seemed a caress and left the
afterfeeling of a blow. The magnetism of her silence was so
powerful that only some instinct of balance prompted me to
employ the most rigidly professional manner in my relations
with her.


My hospital salary, meanwhile, gave me a new economic
freedom, and I began to amass an array of material possessions:
a shiny new Cadillac convertible, a sixteen-foot metalcraft
runabout, a .22 caliber Winchester automatic rifle and various
other things which attracted me. I bought a Doberman
Pinscher pup named Duke, of whom I quickly became fond,
taking him driving with me in my car during the day and
letting him sleep under my bed at night.


I soon made friends among the well-to-do townspeople and
joined them in their entertainments. I went on fishing trips
aboard a private cruiser to Salerno, where my companions
and I lived in a shack on one of the small islands, cooked our
own meals and consumed many cans of beer and played innumerable
games of poker while waiting for the tide to
change. I went flying week-ends with a local playboy who
owned an Aeronca, following the eastern coast of Florida and
soaring high above the suture formed by the white-gloved

[p. <i>72</i>]

I also drove to Miami Beach on week-ends, always using the
ocean route, A1A, so that I could enjoy the extended stretches
of road which permitted an unobstructed view of the ocean.
During these week-ends, I played tennis, went horseback riding,
partook of the luxuries of various hotel cabana clubs, went
to parties, and often attended the Sunday fantasmagoria at
Tommy Borland's apartment. On the way back to the hospital,
I soon learned to anticipate the feeling of tranquility which
would settle over me after I passed Ft. Lauderdale Beach and
headed north toward Palm Beach. Now the tinsel glitter and
the sense of urgency which characterized the tempo of the
larger resort cities seemed to fall away, and I drove by miles of
broad virgin beach still uncluttered by tourists and seaside
hotels. Here there was space to breathe in, to absorb the
splendor of the natural panorama, to enjoy an exquisite moment
of indolence. Here I almost felt that I belonged.


As the weeks melted into months beneath the hot sun, the
attraction which I felt toward Eleanor increased perceptibly,
then became a delicious problem as I became aware that it was
reciprocated. She stared at me too hard and too long; she

[p. <i>73</i>]

One day, finding fault with something she had done, I
scolded her severely. She turned away and walked rapidly
toward the linen room. I had an intimation that she was going
to cry. I followed after her, and indeed, found her in the
linen room weeping softly.


I apologized for losing my temper and asked her to have
dinner with me that evening. After we had eaten we drove to
various bars and finally arrived at my house.


We became lovers that night.


Like Angelique, with whom I always mentally compared
herto her inevitable disadvantage, and like most of the other
women who would later come into my life, Eleanor had been
unhappily married. I do not know whether it is a general rule
that troubled people seek out others of their own kind, but
with me it has been so. Unhappiness usually confers on those
who have been touched by it a certain sensitivity, an understanding
which enriches them. On the other hand, I have had
little patience with innocents who think that everything is
shiny.


When together, Eleanor and I usually shunned the clubs
and parties, finding greater enjoyment in the out-of-doors,
where we could be with Duke as well. In the evenings, with
Eleanor's head in my lap and Duke at my feet, I almost forgot
about Angelique as the darkness consumed the hours. Some
nights we parked at a favorite vantage point on a bluff overlooking
the ocean and sat for hours in blissful embrace, drinking

[p. <i>74</i>]

On Saturday afternoons we drove to Palm Beach to make
small purchases and window-shop in the expensive stores along
Worth Avenue before we went on to Steen's, a seaside cafe in
Palm Beach Shores, where we could dance barefoot on the
very sand. Following a late Sunday breakfast out and an hour
or two with the <i>New York Times</i>, we took part in the local
custom of visiting one cafe after another along the strip between
Delray and Palm Beach, meeting the same people each
week, becoming part of a gradually larger group as the day
wore on. Eventually, we settled down in one place, the women
engrossed in their favorite topics of conversation, the men in
theirs. Eleanor and I usually departed at dusk, slightly intoxicated,
hungry, glad to be by ourselves again and looking forward
to Duke's boisterous welcome.


When the desire moved us, we spent week-ends in Juno
Beach at the Tradewinds Motel, where we enjoyed the informal
atmosphere and the excellent food, served either in the
establishment's glass-enclosed caf directly over the beach or
in the Italian restaurant located a few hundred yards down
the road. We lounged evenings in the Tradewind's tiny bar,
conversing with the pleasant Austrian couple who owned the
motel. Later, each armed with a cool drink, we sat outside
our rooms on the balcony, watching the pinpoint lights of
distant ships drift slowly across the dark horizon.


During one of these week-ends at Juno Beach we visited

[p. <i>75</i>]

One Saturday afternoon, while we window-shopped on
Worth Avenue, I was suddenly stunned by the sight of a pale
aquamarine tulle dress which was displayed in one of the
store windows. It was an exact duplicate of a dress which
Angelique had owned, and I recalled the very day that she had
purchased it and how it had caused her blue-green eyes to
change shade constantly. As I stared at the dress, I felt an irresistible
urge to buy it for Eleanor. Although aware that the
purchase represented a sacrifice to my memories of Angelique,
as well as a stratagem to remove the dress from public display,
which somehow seemed offensive and irreverent, I was taken
aback by the force of my impulse. Eleanor at first resisted my
offer to buy her the dress because of its high price, but at last
yielded, probably misinterpreting my impetuosity as an expression
of love. But whenever she wore the dress afterwards I
behaved in a manner so distant that I might just as well have
been in Mexico City.


During the autumn of 1951 Eleanor began to talk about
marriage. I avoided a definite stand each time she brought up
the subject, knowing perfectly well that I was deceiving
neither of us with my apparent indecisiveness. I was aware
that Eleanor must see through most of the excuses I offered.
And the need once more to face my fear of marriagecoupled
as it was now with my feelings of guilt and loyalty toward

[p. <i>76</i>]

In December Eleanor left the hospital for a nursing position
in West Palm Beach: it was her idea of a trial separation. For
the next few weeks we saw each other only infrequently and
our meetings were less than satisfying.


We refrained from seeing each other at all during January,
following an argument over some trivial matter. That month
was for me a nightmare of loneliness and misery. My heart
directed the car to her house a thousand times to ask forgiveness,
but each time my head dissuaded me before I arrived.
When it seemed at last that I would explode to contain my
pride, I met Eleanor one night in the Melody Lane. The very
moment we parked on an old, unused beach road, we fell
into each other's arms avowing our undying love, and our
unhappiness dissolved in the tears that cascaded down our
cheeks.


For a month or so our differences remained masked by the
happiness of reconciliation. Then Eleanor began to talk of
marriage again and I was forced to declare myself without
evasion. I told her about my tuberculosis and I said that I was
unprepared for marriage, despite my love for her. The vocalization
of my love now struck me with its unexpected truth
Yes, I did love Eleanor, though I knew that this love suffered
by comparison with that I had felt for Angelique. Did I
actually still love Angelique more than Eleanor? Was it possible
to feel so intensely about two different women simultaneously,
or was I, in self-defense, now bearing a morbid and
fanatic adoration for an illusion, a fetish which demanded
exclusive devotion, in place of the normal love which I had
felt for the woman herself?

[p. <i>77</i>]

From then on I could only half-heartedly rationalize whenever
Eleanor renewed our futile discussions about marriage,
for I knew that a happy relationship between us, between myself
and any other woman, was now out of the question. One
evening Eleanor announced that she had applied for a commission
in the Army Nursing Corps to escape from our
deteriorating relationship. I hardly believed her, imagining
that she was only attempting to coerce me into marriage.


In the early part of February, 1952, I suffered another
attack of gout and began to give myself injections of morphine
to relieve the pain. I used morphine, although demerol was
available, because morphine was being used on patients at the
time. Because the drug was not available at the hospital in
bulk, I had to order extra doses for patients who were already
receiving it, injecting it into my arm on the way to their
rooms. When these patients' need for the narcotic disappeared,
I continued reordering it for them and using it myself.


This attack of gout lasted for only two days but I continued
shooting myself with morphine after the pain vanished.


I did not indulge in introspection about why I did so. It
just seemed that reality had become too much for me. The
fate of my love affair with Eleanor was terribly upsetting
but no more so than what it seemed to prophesy for any
future relationship with any other woman. At the hospital I
had already mastered everything and rarely felt challenged.
True, I was making money and "living well," as the expression
is usually understood, but none of all my material possessions
brought me happiness. I had nothing of real value, no close
friendships, no work that stimulated me, and I had already experienced
the Lethean power of a narcotic.


Soon after I began using it, I was ordering morphine for

[p. <i>78</i>]

To avoid unnecessary risk, I refrained from ordering the
morphine for more than two patients at a time. Occasionally,
I palmed one of the two morphine tablets instead of dissolving
it in a syringe at the nurse's station. Although the remaining
tablet which I used at the time did not control me adequately,
I endured the discomfort and saved the palmed tablet as a
reserve against some unexpected situation which might prevent
my return to the hospital at the end of a four-hour interval.
When able to lay away another tablet in this manner, I
injected the earlier reserve into myself as an extra dividend.
Thus I managed to be in possession of one reserve tablet at all
times.


The effect of the drug, as well as the means of its procurement,
altered my personality and limited my social activity
considerably. I became restless, suspicious, furtive and, especially,
ever concerned about the time. I never stayed away

[p. <i>79</i>]

The morphine was much more powerful than demerol had
been; I could not shake its effects for two or three hours,
whereas I had been able to function in an hour or less after
using demerol in moderate dosages.


Eleanor soon became aware of the changes in me but had
no reason to suspect the truth. A number of times, as we drove
in the cool of evening, she made remarks about the unusual
moistness and pallor of my skin, inquiring if I felt ill.


My trips home became less and less frequent. I shunned
contact with my parents, fearful that they would find me out.
Instead of staying over Saturday nights, I made my visits on
Sundays for very short periods of timenever more than an
hour, for the round trip took close to three hours. I usually
took Duke with me on these occasions because my father
enjoyed seeing him and also because I felt that he diverted
attention from me.


One evening, after eating a seafood dinner at one of our
favorite restaurants, Eleanor became acutely ill with nausea,
dizziness and abdominal pain. The symptoms were so severe
that she lay crying and writhing on the rear seat of the car
while I sped to her house. Every few minutes she pleaded
with me to do something to relieve her agony. After carrying
her into the house and examining her to make certain that her
illness was not serious, I administered an injection containing
the one reserve tablet of morphine I always carried with me,
and after ten minutes of moaning complaints she dozed off.
As I sat upon the bed watching her, I suddenly realized that I

[p. <i>80</i>]

The days flew by, and although aware of my precarious
position and loathing what I was doing, I continued taking
morphine, unable to devise a surreptitious withdrawal.


Late in March Eleanor received her commission together
with orders to report to an army camp in Alabama a week
later. Faced with a situation that I had refused to believe
would ever be, I was both shocked and hurt.


Our last week together had the unreality of a dream. Out
of a strange sense of urgency I myself did not understand, I
bought an engagement ring to present to Eleanor on the eve
of her departurean extraordinary going-away gift and perhaps
one that represented a change of heart, a willingness to
accept the idea of marriage. But if so, it was too late and I
knew it. Then, again, the ring may have been a safe and clever
ruse to bind Eleanor to me even in separation.


We spent our last night together at my house after dinner
and a single toast to the future at Nino's. There was little
about our behavior during the early part of the evening to
distinguish it from that of other evenings we had spent together.
There were no declarations of eternal love, no promises
of fidelity, no vows to wait forever. The night wore on, our
hours grew short. When both hands of my watch pointed
eastward Eleanor fell asleep on the sofa, hypnotized by the
soft lights and music. Sitting upon the floor regarding the lax
and child-like face of this woman I loved, I thought: So this
is the way my second love will end, and because of an implacable
specter to whom I give eternal fealty. But is this the
only reason?

[p. <i>81</i>]

While Eleanor slept, I took the package containing the engagement
ring from my drawer, quietly unwrapped it and sat
down again on the floor. Then I tried deliberately to wake her
by caressing her hair, her eyebrows and her lips; and as she
shrugged and squirmed in dreamy protest, I slipped the ring
on her limp finger. With that, her lids fluttered, then parted,
allowing her eyes to focus upon the multifaceted glitter of the
ring. A few seconds elapsed as comprehension strove to pierce
the veil of sleep; then a second of undisguised joy flickered
evanescently before the return of full consciousness. Eleanor
turned her head, gazed directly at me and moved towards me
with arms outstretched. I saw the twin highlights in her eyes
shifting with the movement, the fence-like shadows of her
lower lids upon the gentle curves of skin beneath and, suddenly,
the silent tears. The scent of Shalimar grew stronger,
the shadow of her nearness grew darker and I felt the soft
wonder of her lips upon mine. In that moment of consecration,
I felt that Eleanor understood the paradox of my deep love for
her and its inability to rise above the past.


Her departure left my addictionand the problem of
breaking itthe central preoccupation of my mind. I could
no longer bear the perverted existence I was leading. My personality
changes became more marked, and the other doctors,
the nurses and technicians made comments about them. Night
after night I remained at home, alone with Duke, watching the
clock, venturing out only to buy dog food and, sometimes,
to hide within the flickering darkness of a movie theatre. My
Cadillac convertible stood idle most of the time, filthy and uncared
for. My trips home became increasingly irregular and
my parents began to call me twice a week to assure themselves
that I was not ill. I avoided friends, found that I could not

[p. <i>82</i>]

The morphine dosage I had been taking every four hours
no longer seemed to control me for the entire interval. Two
or three hours after an injection, my nervousness and irritability
increased, my clothes became drenched with perspiration,
my stomach began to quiver and I felt as if worms were crawling
beneath my skin. I became pale, ate little, lost weight, and
always I lived in fearfear of being exposed, fear of hurting
my family, fear of withdrawal.


Repeatedly, during the state of calm which immediately
followed an injection, I would resolve to break the habit. It
seemed easy. I felt quite well, and even if I experienced a few
withdrawal symptoms, I thought, I would be able to endure
them. But as the minutes flew by my confidence vanished with
them and, at last, I was rushing back to the hospital for the next
shot.


I busied myself in the only refuge available, my work at
the hospital. In addition to my usual duties of supervising the
daily care and treatment of eighty-five bed patients and directing
the admitting unit for the entire hospital, I spent the
greater part of my free time making supernumerary medical
rounds while awaiting the fateful signal of the clock. I also
wrote two medical papers, both of which I cast aside in the
end, and involved myself in a controversial method of treatment
for tuberculosis which had recently been developed by
a physician in New England. I first assayed the effect of this
new therapy upon myself and, experiencing no untoward
symptoms, selected twenty-four patients for a rigidly controlled
study. After two months I discontinued the study,

[p. <i>83</i>]

The month of May brought two letters from Eleanor,
newsy, impersonal missives demanding no replyor so it
seemed to me. My physical and mental condition was such
now that I shunned the very thought of answering. I could
hardly imagine what I might write about without setting
down a pack of lies.


Later in the month my parents called to tell me that they
would be going north soon to be with my sister Lilian who
was pregnant and was expected to deliver early in June. They
pleaded with me to take a week off so that I could be with
them when their first grandchild was born. Replying that I
would try to arrange it, I hung up knowing that I had uttered
a complete falsehood and that taking any kind of trip was
out of the question.


I called them back in a few days later to say that I was sorry
but I had been unable to obtain a leave of absence.


It was then that the thought of their going away gave rise to
a new idea which seized and held me: This might be the
opportunity I had been waiting for to break my drug habit.
While my parents were away there would be no one to look
for me, to call me and bother me. If I could not succeed in
that interval, I never would.


They left by plane on a Friday night and I took my last
injection at 8:30 the following morning, using only one tablet
of morphine. Upon completing my work at noon that day, I
hopped into my car and drove off in the direction of Miami
without waiting for the 12:30 medication time or even bothering
to lock the house or arrange for Duke's feedings.

[p. <i>84</i>]

Thirty minutes later I was past the point of no return. For
the first time in many months I was defying the schedule. A
sort of trance overcame me; every thought concerned my
present project: nothing else mattered. But suddenly I realized
that despite my planning I had formulated no definite course
of action. I did not know where to go, what to do or how
long it would be until I was withdrawn. All I knew was that
I mustand wouldbreak the bonds of my slavery.


While passing through Golden Beach I was stopped and
fined twenty-five dollars for driving forty miles an hour in a
thirty-five mile zone. This contact with the law at such an
inopportune time was enough to frighten me, and it was with
a sense of enormous relief that I continued on my way after
paying the fine.


By the time I reached Miami Beach, six hours had elapsed
since my last injection. Signs of withdrawal gradually began
to appear. I was assailed by restlessness, yawning, sweating,
watery nasal discharge, nausea, muscular cramps and a rising
tide of anxiety. Hamstrung by indecision, I drove aimlessly
about the streets, sick with withdrawal and numb with fear. I
kept passing my parents' empty house repeatedly, praying that
I would not be recognized by any of the neighbors.


As my symptoms grew more and more intense, my alarm
turned to panic. Something would have to be done very soon.
Unable to control my jangling nerves any longer and terrified
that I might become involved in an accident, I parked along
the Fifth Street causeway between Miami and the Beach in
the hope that I would think of something to do.


I could not bear the thought of seeking help from an ethical
physician or entering a private hospital, for then my condition
would certainly be reported to the narcotics bureau. Yet

[p. <i>85</i>]

I put my car into gear and drove swiftly to the nearest drug
store. Looking down the classified list of masseurs, I chose one
whose address was in the rural northern section of the city
and phoned for an immediate appointment, using a fictitious
name.


The address was that of a small office building. There was
a waiting room with no receptionist. But scarcely a moment
after I entered, a tall, blond, attractive woman in her forties
appeared. Dressed in a nurse's white uniform, she greeted me
kindly, introduced herself as Miss Vale and immediately conducted
me into a treatment room.


As I described my symptoms of nervousness and cramps,
I wondered how I had mistakenly chosen to go to a masseuse
rather than a masseur: a woman was the last thing I wanted.


After a few minutes of preparation, Miss Vale began to
work on me. The very first minutes of massage were enough
to convince me that this form of treatment was not what I
needed; it aggravated the symptoms instead of alleviating
them. The touch of the masseuse's hands upon the surface of
my body was more than I could stand. I leapt off the table,
hysterically demanding that she stop.


Miss Vale then put me through a series of hot and cold
baths in hydrotherapy tubs, but the heat did no good and the
cold was unbearable. As I dried myself and then dressed, Miss

[p. <i>86</i>]

Her reaction was surprisingly sympathetic; amazement
rather than horror showed in her face. She hastened to assure
me that my secret was safe with her and that I might remain
with her as long as necessary.


At the time the utter improbability of her offer did not even
occur to me. I simply accepted it with gratitude.


Miss Vale watched me intently as I hobbled back and forth
across the room, a handkerchief in my trembling hands to blot
the incessant watery discharge from my nose. Occasionally
she spoke, offering some suggestion or phrase of encouragement
to break the crazy silence.


All at once, with a look of inspiration, she suggested
hypnotism as a way for me to be carried through the full
withdrawal period without discomfort. The idea was interesting
if novel. Why not? It might work.


But what hypnotist who was capable could also be trusted?
She named a well-known local figure who had been cited in
the papers for his help through hypnotism in a number of legal
cases. Although wary of approaching anyone in the public
eye, I decided to take the risk because time was important
now.


Posing as my aunt, Miss Vale succeeded in arranging an
8 PM appointment at the hypnotist's home. Hardly able to
stand still or to control my shaking limbs and quivering
muscles, I arrived with Miss Vale promptly at the appointed
time.

[p. <i>87</i>]

Our host, a bald giant of a man, received us cordially and
ushered us into the living room. Although he evinced no untoward
curiosity, Miss Vale and I frequently glanced at each
other as I described the cramps and nervousness which had
suddenly come over me. I could offer no explanation for my
condition, I said; but he could surely observe my great discomfort.
When he asked why I had not gone to see a doctor,
I replied that I had suffered such an attack before and no
doctor had been able to help me.


He agreed to see what he could do. Once ... twice ...
three times he tried to put me into a hypnotic tranceand
could not. Disappointed at his failure, he began to question me
suspiciously and I became fearful. Miss Vale proved her
mettle, however. She rose quickly and announced that we
must go. Thanking him profusely, we hurried out of the house.


It was 10:30 when we got back to North Miami. I was now
a shaking, perspiring mass of cramps and panic. Pacing to and
fro again, I suddenly thought of a psychiatrist who, although
well-trained and competent, did not belong to the local
medical society and who might therefore be persuaded not to
report my condition if I called upon him. Quickly making up
my mind, I phoned for an appointment, again using a fictitious
name, and was told to come at once.


Miss Vale and I were met at the door by Dr. Blair and an
efficient-looking young nurse. Following the usual introductions,
Dr. Blair elicited from me a detailed medical history
which deviated from the truth only in respect to my identity
and occupation (I stated that I was a clothing salesman). Observing
my terrible condition, he said that he would help me
without reporting me on two conditions: that I agree to withdrawal
without the use of narcotics, and that I accept electroshock

[p. <i>88</i>]

As I listened to Dr. Blair, I thought of the times I had given
electro-shock therapy to patients during my internship days.
I could recall the sudden, unholy thrust of the entire body, the
convulsive arching of the back, the spastic biting of the mouth
gag, the few moments when breathing ceased entirely and the
face took on a purplish discoloration, then gradually paled;
later the first deep inspiration, the muscular relaxation which
followed and the glazed look of the bloodshot eyes as amnesic
consciousness finally returned.


Horrified though I was, I agreed to Dr. Blair's conditions.
I could not now quibble about the cost of the relief I so
desperately needed.


My "aunt" bade me farewell, promising to call in the morning
to find out how I was getting on. I was then driven by
Dr. Blair and his nurse to an isolated private nursing home,
where I was immediately prepared for therapy. A small black
leather-covered control box was placed upon a table close to
my bed, my temples were massaged with a saline paste, a
rubber gag was inserted into my mouth to prevent me from
biting my tongue, electrodes connected by wires with the
control box were placed on my temples and


I awoke to the sound of voices. Opening my eyes, I perceived
the blue-black beard and uneven sideburns of unfamiliar-looking
man sitting on the edge of the bed. Behind
him stood a woman in a white uniform. The man turned his
face toward me and asked whether I knew Dr. Marks.


Reflecting, as I confusedly inspected my surroundings, that

[p. <i>89</i>]

He replied that he was Dr. Blair and his nurse Miss Hart. He
then gave me an outline of my history, concluding with my
visit to his office with my "aunt." I was now at a private nursing
home operated by Miss Hart, he said, and I had completed
a course of three shock treatments over a period of
four days, had done well and already been up and around the
house. I was also past the most severe stages of withdrawal.


I recalled, as from a dream, memories of eating at a table
with Miss Hart, conversing with Dr. Blair and sitting in a
living room in which there was a brown rug and tan floor-length
drapes. I rose quickly and strode into the living room.
Sure enough there were the drapes and rug. I ran into the
bathroom to stare at myself in the mirror, gently touching my
temples, but I could neither see nor feel any signs of the
therapy which I was told had been given me.


I returned to the bedroom and sank down upon the bed
completely bewildered. It was weird, impossible. Who was
the "aunt" I had come with to the office of the blue-bearded
man who called himself Dr. Blair? The latter's description of
her fitted none of my aunts. And where were my parents?
Had I really been here for the past four days? What of my
position at the hospital? Where was Duke? Why couldn't I
recall the events leading up to my consultation with Dr. Blair?
Yet I had to believe everything Dr. Blair had told me, if for
no other reason than that my mind contained nothing to contradict
it.


Taking heed of my consternation, Dr. Blair assured me that
I would recover from the amnesia shortly. He eased my mind

[p. <i>90</i>]

Following his suggestion that I do so, I placed a call to Dr.
Paul, the medical director of the hospital. On learning that
he was out of town for a few days, I left word that I was ill
and would be absent for a total of ten days. Then I called one
of my neighbors, repeating my story, and as I began to ask
about Duke, I was interrupted with the assurance that he was
being cared for and would continue to be, until I returned.


I spent much of the next few days grasping at an amorphous
swirl of half-formed ideas and memories. Frustration only
made me double my efforts. What, actually, did Miss Vale
look like? Was I supposed to have phoned my family or they
me? What were the names of many of my colleagues at the
hospital? Miss Hart, whom I now called Dolores, took me
for walks, drives and, once, to a downtown movie when her
duties permitted. During these excursions, I recognized each
familiar scene as it came into view, the name of each street
as it was spoken, but I was unable to relate any place to the
rest of the city.


On Friday, just a week after I had left Lantana, I felt that
my mind had cleared sufficiently to talk to my parents, and I
called them in New Jersey. They were almost beside themselves
with worry and had been, they said, since the previous
evening when they had called the hospital to tell me the good
news that I had a nephew. They were informed that I had
been away for some days because of illness and my where-abouts

[p. <i>91</i>]

I had become involved in an undesirable situation which had
necessitated my absence from the hospital for a brief while,
I said. The situation had been taken care of and actually it
had nothing to do with my health. It was necessary to assure
them on this last point repeatedly. I insisted that a discussion of
the details by phone would hardly be adequate and promised
to explain everything fully upon their return to Florida.
Finally, I persuaded them to remain with my sister for another
two weeks as they had originally planned, promising to be in
touch with them frequently.


On Sunday evening Dolores, Dr. Blair and I discussed at
length the question of my preparedness for returning to my
duties at the hospital the following morning. Dolores believed
that my memory had not returned in sufficient degree for me
to readjust satisfactorily. I, however, was adamant in favor of
leaving, and Dr. Blair, after some thought, decided to allow
me to go because I felt so strongly about it. But he warned me
that I might be confronted by situations which I would be
unable to handle because of my still existent partial amnesia.
He also made me promise that if I experienced too many difficulties
I would return to Miami at once.


Early the next morning I set out for the hospital with
Dolores' written driving instructions lying in my lap. Soon
afterwards I passed my parents' home without having been
aware the moment before that I was coming to it. Indeed, I
recognized each landmark, each strip of highway in the same,
sudden way, unable to tell what lay a quarter mile ahead of me.

[p. <i>92</i>]

On reaching the hospital, I was, fortunately, able to recognize
my own house, although I could not recall which of the
staff members lived in the other houses. I entered and began
to move curiously from room to room, exploring drawers and
closets and fingering objects familiarly while a host of impressions
rushed in to fill the lacunae of my mind. With a sigh
of resignation, I raised the telephone out of its cradle and
called Dr. Paul. As soon as I heard the tone of his voice I
recognized trouble. Upset and angry, he launched into a loud
and disconnected monologue concerning the peculiar circumstances
of my disappearance. Declaring that he knew
what had happened but was too busy now for discussions he
asked that I be in his office at nine o'clock the following
Thursday morning.


Hanging up, I sat down heavily, badly frightened yet thankful
that I had not had to face Dr. Paul in his present mood.
He had said that he knew. Did he really? What now? I could
not sit around here and wait until Thursday; I would have
to get away, go some place, until then. I even questioned the
good of ever returning to see Dr. Paul.


Packing some clothes into an overnight bag, I decided to
look for Duke and take him with me to Miami immediately.
While whistling for him outside, I was hailed by a handsome
woman in the next yard. I recognized her as the wife of one
of my colleagues but I could not recall her name. She greeted
me and asked how I was. I answered as if nothing were amiss
and then inquired about her family, especially the children,
whom I happened to spot in the doorway of her house. As we
stood talking, Duke suddenly appeared in the distance and
recognizing my car, sped in our direction. With barks and
leaps he raced around me, then collapsed at my feet, staring up

[p. <i>93</i>]

On the trip back I had little trouble remembering the
road. Now my problem was Duke, who kept jumping at me
from the side window to lick my face and neck. As I traveled
farther and farther from the hospital, I began to wonder:
Should I stay at a motel along the road with Duke until Thursday,
or should I return to Dolores' nursing home? Duke might
not be welcome there. But whatever I did I must let Dolores or
Dr. Blair know. In Fort Lauderdale, I phoned Dolores and
related what had occurred in Lantana. She ordered me to
proceed directly to her home with Duke.


Dolores and Duke took to each other immediately, and after
Duke was fed, the three of us romped about the large field
behind the house while I told at greater length what had happened.
Dr. Blair arrived later that day and he, Dolores and I
talked late into the evening. I admitted that I was thoroughly
frightened and felt no desire whatsoever to go back to the
hospital. He agreed that I faced a difficult trial, but advised
me to keep the Thursday appointment no matter what the
consequences might be; a return to my duties at the hospital
if that was still possiblewould be the best thing for me.
As he left, he promised that he would call Dr. Paul to determine
exactly what the situation was and what could be done
about it.


When Dr. Blair returned the following day, he announced
that he had spoken to Dr. Paul and had learned that my drug
problem was, indeed, no secret to him. However, Dr. Blair
was able to postpone my appointment until Friday so that
Dolores and he could accompany me on the trip. Although

[p. <i>94</i>]

The ensuing days were filled with worry. Dolores was extremely
solicitous, and indeed I began to be aware that her
attitude toward me represented something more than the usual
nurse-patient relationship. There was a certain intensity about
her when we were together, and we were together more and
more.


On Thursday Dr. Blair called to tell me that Miss Vale
had asked to see me and that he had suggested we meet in
his office that evening. Dolores and I arrived some minutes
early and Dr. Blair took the opportunity to allay my uneasiness
with the information that he had discussed the factor of my
amnesia with Miss Vale and had asked her not to interrogate
me too closely.


When she entered the room, I immediately recognized
something familiar about her handsome figure and honey-colored
hair. I even had a vague impression of previous contact,
but I was unable to reconstruct any experience with her
clearly and I felt awkward during the interview. I hardly
knew what to talk about after thanking her for her kindness
and interest. She said that she was glad to have been of help,
was still interested, and that my secret would be safe with her.


While we conversed in this peculiar fashion, I was aware
of Dolores leaning against a far wall listening intently, her
face a study in sullen disapproval. Noting the uncomfortable
lapses into silence, the nervous shiftings of feet, the silly
exchanges of smiles, Dr. Blair finally terminated the interview.
Miss Vale drove off in her car and I left with Dolores, who
remained strangely silent all though the drive back to her
house. Dr. Blair joined us later and we talked a good deal about

[p. <i>95</i>]

Early the next morning the three of us, Dolores, Dr. Blair
and I, with Duke, made the journey to LantanaDuke and I
in my car. Dr. Blair and Dolores in hers. The interview was
held in Dr. Paul's house so that the proceedings would be entirely
confidential. Dr. Paul's initial attitude was one of suspicion
and antagonism, but with Dr. Blair's skillful management,
it gradually softened. At times Dolores and I found ourselves
sitting alone in the living room while Dr. Blair and Dr.
Paul disappeared into the kitchen for long periods. We could
hear only muffled sounds of sober, deliberate discussion which
came from behind the closed swinging door. At last the two
men emerged from one of these private conferences wearing
identical expressions of resolve.


It was Dr. Blair who announced the decision. Dr. Paul had
agreed to let me come back to work at the hospital, with the
understanding that there must be no repetition of the kind of
incident which had just occurred. I was to visit Dr. Blair each
week at his office so that he could observe how I was getting
along.


I expressed my gratitude to Dr. Paul, promising that he
would have no cause to regret his trust in me. Saying our
good-byes, Dolores, Dr. Blair and I left Dr. Paul's house.


Before driving off, Dr. Blair gave me specific instructions to
confide in and seek advice from Dr. Paul if I ran into any
problems. Dolores held my hand for one extended moment of
farewell, and then both she and Dr. Blair were gone.

[p. <i>96</i>]

Arriving on the wards Monday morning, I ran headlong
into a mesh of problems. I could neither recall the name of the
charge nurse nor the names of the office and laboratory
workers who greeted me, and I found myself having to speak
to them in an evasive and impersonal manner. When I set out
on my rounds from patient to patient, I suddenly realized that,
although I could associate each face with a mental picture of
a chest condition, I could recall neither the name nor the
medical history that went with it. Patient after patient confounded
me by asking ordinary questions about the course of
his disease and treatment. I might have been a complete out
sider for all the information I was able to give.


I hedged, generalized and procrastinated. All at once I was
seized by panic and I hurried into the refuge of my empty
office to compose myself. Determined not to be beaten, I left
the office some minutes later and ordered the nurse to place
each patient's chart on his bed. Then I resumed my rounds.
With the aid of the charts, I was able to respond to the questions
which were asked of me pertinently, if slowly, and to
address each patient by name.


The next ordeal presented itself in the dining room at
lunchtime. Although fearful of the sea of staring, nameless
faces, I took a deep breath and walked through the door. I
strained to appear casual as I acknowledged greetings and
responded to remarks directed at me. Somehow, I managed to
get through my meal without bolting from the room. When
I did leave, it was with head held high in secret pride for I
knew that the worst was over and that I was equal to any
further difficulties which lay ahead.


As if in compensation for the partial loss of memory, my
ears seemed to have become acutely attuned to the utterance

[p. <i>97</i>]

My parents returned to Miami Beach the following weekend
and I drove to their home to face the final ordeal. Although
happy and relieved to see me, they were still upset, and
implored me to explain my disappearance. The circumstances
of my flight were so bizarre that I knew my story would have
to be "good" to be believed. The fabrication that I launched
into impressed even me with its verisimilitude.


I had been involved with a "loose woman," I confessed
dramatically. She had become pregnant before their trip north.
Although I wasn't convinced that I was the responsible party,
I wanted to avoid bringing disgrace to the family, and had
used their absence as an opportunity to resolve the situation. I
had taken her to Tampa where an abortion had been performed.
All had gone well and the incident was already closed.
I was ashamed of my role in the episode, I told them, as well
as for having caused worry on all sides, but my immediate
concern had been to prevent an unsavory scandal and the birth
of a child whose fatherhood would be in question.

[p. <i>98</i>]

Seeing the look of pain on the faces of my parents convinced
me that they believed my story, and I departed Sunday
evening feeling degraded at my duplicity, but nonetheless
relieved that the lie had been swallowed and the more horrendous
secret of my drug addiction was safe.


From June, 1952, on, I worked diligently to prove to Dr.
Paul that he had not erred in giving me the chance to prove
myself. My health remained excellent and I felt no desire for
narcotics. I visited my parents on week-ends and departed late
each Sunday afternoon, ostensibly to keep some social appointment,
but in reality to visit with Dr. Blair and Dolores.
As the weeks went by Dolores and I drew closer to each other
and before long I began to skip an occasional week-end in
Miami to meet her in Fort Lauderdale, where we spent the
days lolling on some isolated beach in the sun. I was aware
that Dolores felt more than friendship for me, but she knew
that I felt no more than that for her, and each of us respected
the difference in the other's feelings. When I stopped going
to Dr. Blair, in February of the following year, I also stopped
seeing Dolores.


Early in August, 1952, I received another letter from
Eleanor, postmarked Korea; enclosed with it were photographs
of her with groups of Korean children and nurses. The
letter was cheerful, friendly and anecdotal, and alluded neither
to the past nor to the future. After some thought, I decided
against writing a reply.


In this same month Janice entered my life.


Janice had recently come to work at the hospital as charge
nurse on the admitting ward. She was tall, slim, dark and
graceful. Divorced, she lived in an apartment with her pretty
seven-year-old daughter. At the hospital she was efficient in

[p. <i>99</i>]

It was not long before I became aware that Janice had
become more than ordinarily interested in me. When the opportunity
appeared, she would question me about what I did
evenings. Soon she began asking me if I would take her out on
a date. I resisted her, appalled at the same time by her aggressiveness
and her lack of regard for my feelings. She was taller
than I, and there seemed to be something incongruous in the
idea of my having any sort of relationship with her.


But she persisted. One day she asked me whether I would
examine her mother, who had a lump in one breast. Although
aware that her coming to me was part of a design, I said yes,
and we drove out together one afternoon to her mother's
house. Her mother's condition was not dangerous and I gave
what advice I could. Afterward I stayed to chat and drink
tea, and I realized that Janice's little stratagem had not entirely
failed.


A day or two later, Janice was assisting me in examining a
series of new admissions. After the room had emptied, we
stayed to talk over a cigarette. When I rose to go, Janice
walked toward me, and before I knew what was happening
we were in each other's arms.


That night she completed her seduction of me. We went
driving and stopped at the Melody Lane for a few drinks.
Then we drove along the ocean road with the top down at
about seventy miles an hour. We stopped in the parking lot

[p. <i>100</i>]

We were furiously involved when Janice suddenly thrust
me aside. She said that she was hot. She unbuttoned her dress.
Soon she had taken off all her clothes.


After that night, I frequently met Janice at the Melody
Lane, where we sat through the wee hours of the morning
before I took her home. Sometimes we went to the beach with
her daughter Nicky. As a mistress, she left nothing to be desired.
Her physical talents were as prodigious as her appetite.
Yet I never felt close to her. She lacked the sensitivity which
I sought in women. And at times she made me feel as nothing
more than an object of her terrific hunger.


So I was available to Barbara, even during the first weeks of
my affair with Janice, when I met her at a dinner party given
by one of the owners of the Melody Lane. Barbara was a
professional golfer, attractive, athletic, strong-willed, extremely
aggressive, obviously accustomed to making decisions
and taking care of herself. For me she was a novel kind of
woman and I could not decide how I felt toward her. Nevertheless,
when she announced that she was leaving the party
I offered to take her home.


She lived only next door and she invited me into her house.
She put some records on the automatic phonograph and threw
some cushions on the floor. We lay down, near to one another,
listening to the music and talking at intervals.


Barbara was married. She told me about her husband, who
was away from the house that evening: he was an older man,
afflicted with an incurable illness. It was apparent that she did
not love him, and yet her feeling for him went very deep.


After a while I put my arm around her and kissed her. She

[p. <i>101</i>]

"Let's go to bed," I suggested.


Her response was unequivocal. "You dirty son of a bitch;
what makes you think that I would go to bed with the likes
of you?" she said.


But her anger wasn't durable. Soon we were wrestling again,
but more tenderly and kissing tenderly.


She suggested that we go into the sun room, but the couch
there was uncomfortable, and, at last, we were in the bedroom.


Embracing me fiercely she declared that this was the first
she had ever been unfaithful to her husband and that she loved
me. Afterwards, I never had reason to suspect that what she
had told me was anything but the truth.


Barbara and I picnicked on the beach at night, took
drives along the oceanside roads and patronized dimly lit
cafs. But I soon grew irritated by the hectic secrecy
and unpredictability of our illicit affair. Before we did anything,
I had to wait for her call announcing whether or not
she would be able to get out. If she happened to be free, we
arranged the time and place of our meetingand then we were
together for only an hour or two because she had to hurry
home to avoid suspicion.


Guilt for what I was doing dogged me always. I resented
the jealousy Barbara displayed when she found me with
Janice in the Melody Lane. At such times she left immediately
and parked outside my house to await my return. No sooner
did I arrive than she fell upon me, berating me for spending
did evening with another woman. At first I was merely exasperated.
Here she was, living with another man, complaining

[p. <i>102</i>]

Meanwhile, I was planning to leave the hospital. Dr. Blair
had advised me to stay on at least six months after my reinstatement:
if I left sooner I would leave with a stain; if I remained
at least that long I would prove my strength. In late
September, 1952, I notified Dr. Paul that I intended to resign
from the staff the following January and open my own office
in Miami.


I took the step without marked enthusiasm, for I felt no
real call to private practice or desire to live in Miami.


However, I had come to feel that in my work at the hospital
I had reached a dead end. Private practice does allow the physician
to fulfill his complete role without dependence on
others; and friends and patients both painted a glowing picture
of what life might be like on my own. Miami had seemed the
logical place to open an office because many of the hospital
patients under my care lived there and I would be able to draw
a number of them as private patients after they left Lantana.


Having given notice, I quickly acquired the unpleasant feeling
of being an outsider. Discrediting the irrationality of the
idea, I struggled vainly to prove that I had not lost all rapport
with my colleagues, patients and local friends. The one aspect
of my life which seemed to remain unaffected was my affair
with the Florida coastline. The countryside courted me as
deliciously as ever, perfumed with the scent of jasmine, bedecked

[p. <i>103</i>]

During the last weeks of the year, I worked long to clear
the backlog of paper work on the wards and in the record
room. I continued going out with both Barbara and Janice
and yet I could not escape the nocturnal loneliness which
assailed me upon my inevitable return to an empty house.
Whether uttered at midnight or dawn, the last farewell always
seemed to have a certain withering quality.


In mid-December, Barbara departed to compete in a golf
tournament. Later that month I sold my boat and rifle, and
then I decided to give Duke away. I felt that it would be unfair
to take him to Miami, where he would have to be restricted
and even tied up much of the time. I arranged to give him to a
local man who owned a Doberman bitch. When his new
master arrived to pick him up, Duke docilely followed the
bitch into the truck and then, without so much as a backward
glance, was gone.


Miami Beach in January, 1953, vibrated with still another
winter season. The streets were crowded with frenetic tourists
of every shape, size, and accent. Rubbing shoulders on Lincoln
Road were representatives of the Cadillac-mink-diamond
set, pennywise two-week vacationers scrutinizing every bill
with care, awed first-timers gaping at everything in disbelief,
and preoccupied honeymooners oblivious to the wonders

[p. <i>104</i>]

No sooner had I moved into my parents' home than I became
exposed to certain unexpected and discomfiting aspects
of family living. I found it difficult to accept the conventional
family social obligations and, particularly, the solicitous surveillance
under which I found myself. I was also greatly disturbed
by the daily attacks of chest pain which my father
suffered.


Although I knew that my father had had a heart ailment
for the past year, I had not been aware of the seriousness of
his condition. Each time he sustained an attack, his face became
ashen and he was completely incapacitated until the
medication, which he placed beneath his tongue, took effect.
As a result of his illness, he became temperamental and overbearing,
found fault with everything, engaged in vitriolic outbursts
and instigated frequent quarrels with my mother, who
tolerated his behavior with infinite patience and understanding.


During the arguments, I became so upset that I sometimes
had to flee from the house in fear that I would not be able to
control myself. On these occasions I became particularly
aware of how much I missed the privacy, general freedom and
casualness of the life I had recently given up.


Office-hunting provided a good excuse to be away from
home as much as possible.


About a week after my arrival in Miami Beach I received a
call from Tommy Birland telling me about an office in Miami
Beach which I could share with another physician on a half-time
basis. Although I had thought of locating in the city
rather than on the beach, I examined the office and found it

[p. <i>105</i>]

From the beginning a busy practice seemed assured; and
charging twenty-five dollars per first visit, I seemed to be on
my way to real success and prosperity. Yet I could not recall
when I had been more miserable. Looked up to as a God able
to dispense life and happiness, I felt my confidence dissolve. I
knew that I was no God and I doubted that I was better than
any other doctor. Certain aspects of private practice continually
irritated me. For instance, I had to decide whether a new
patient could afford the various tests which he received as a
matter of course at the hospital. Weighing good medicine
against ability to pay seemed to me the ultimate in cynicism.
Yet most of the time it also seemed to be unavoidable.


I became filled with a sense of professional as well as social
inadequacy. Although I was in the office only during the afternoons,
and therefore had much idle time on my hands, I resisted
every idea of putting that time to constructive use. I
shunned hospital conferences. I refrained from applying for
staff appointments and, indeed, avoided contact with colleagues
as much as possible. There were moments when I
thought of returning to hospital medicine; and then I recalled
the reasons why I had grown dissatisfied in Lantana and knew
that I could not go back again.


Struggling against an overpowering feeling of ennui, I
squandered long stretches of hours by driving about, going to
movies and visiting outlying beaches, where I could brood by
myself in the hot sun.


I felt absolutely trapped.


By the end of January I was taking demerol again. Now it

[p. <i>106</i>]

I began by taking 4 c.c. injections at four or five hour intervals,
and soon after I became aware of the characteristic
changes in my appearance, personality and behavior. Once
more I became pale, irritable, introvertive, suspicious and antisocial.
I ate little and found fault with each meal that my
mother prepared for me. I argued incessantly with my father
and ceased going with him to the weekly boxing matches
which had been our sole common activity outside the home.
I also discontinued my weekend visits with Dr. Blair and
Dolores. Abjuring any social activity whatsover, I became
content to remain in a drugged state of insensibility behind
the locked door of my room.


During relatively lucid intervals, just prior to an injection,
I realized the anguish that my appearance and behavior must
cause my parents, even though they had no suspicion of what
I was doing. Then the magnitude of my guilt overwhelmed
me and I fell into protracted paroxysms of uncontrollable
sobbing, promising myself that I would now abstain from the
use of narcotics. I resolved to stop worrying my parents, to
bring them happiness, to make them proud of me andand
then it was time for another injection and I filled the syringe
and plunged the needle into my arm.


The one departure from my asocial pattern of existence
was my friendship with Helen. I had met Helen at Tommy
Birland's apartment. She was short, well built and quite attractive
in a flashy, neurotic sort of way. She lived with her
mother and worked as a dental assistant on Lincoln Road.

[p. <i>107</i>]

I saw her whenever she had nothing better to do than meet
me, and although I was aware of the secondary role I played
in her life, I accepted it because it satisfied my need for some
kind of companionship. No matter how we passed our evenings
together, we invariably drifted into long discussions about
psychology, sex and the likediscussions in which I sensed
her wrestling with her own personal problems. Although
demerol subdues desire, I became increasingly aware of
Helen's physical attraction and there were times when I was
certain that her eyes cried out in surrender. However, I resisted
temptation, feeling that to do otherwise would change
our relationship from companionship to something else, perhaps
better, perhaps worsebut not companionship. Because
of my great need to have some one simply to be with and talk
to during this period, Helen became the only woman with
whom I was able to carry on an extended friendship without
resorting to rapid physical consummation.


As my struggles against demerol became more and more
futile, I also grew careless and indifferent in handling it, despite
the fact that my parents, aware of the changes in me, watched
me with increasing concern. In mid-February they caught me
as I administered a dose of the narcotic to myself in my bedroom.
There were the expected expressions of bewilderment
and distress, but discovery of the truth brought them a degree
of relief rather than an increase in anxiety. Their lack of
knowledge about my problem prevented them from grasping
its full significance: they believed that its solution consisted
merely in withdrawal.


My sister was summoned and I was locked in my room,

[p. <i>108</i>]

My family talked little about those weird four days and I
did not question them, certain that they had suffered much
more than I.


On the fifth day of my "home cure," Janice, who was
visiting Miami, stopped by to see me. She met and completely
charmed my parents, while I, restless and self-conscious, could
hardly wait for her to depart.


I returned to the office a few days later, hoping to reassure
my familyand perhaps persuade myselfthat the recent
episode had had no deeper meaning; but nothing had really
changed. Within two weeks I was back on demerol. Now,
however, I was compelled to exercise great discretion and cunning,
for my parents could recognize the signs. I invented all
sorts of excuses to be away from the house, and when I did
stay home I forced myself to act pleasantly and eat whatever
was set before me, even when the very thought of food was
sickening.


I made sure to take my injections some hours before entering
the house so that the effects of the demerol would not be

[p. <i>109</i>]

But it was not long before my parents began to suspect the
truth. I could tell by their questions, by their critical attitude,
and by the frequently changed appearance of my bureau
drawers that they were on to me. Still they were uncertain
and hesitated to accuse me openly, perhaps hoping that they
were wrong and fearing the consequences if they accused me
wrongly.


On the evening of April 3, my father retired early, commenting
that he felt poorly. Some minutes later, while I lay
upon my bed, dozing and reading intermittently under the
influence of demerol, I suddenly heard a peculiar gurgling
sound emanating from my father's bedroom. Rushing in, I
found my father unconscious, a fine foam of spittle covering
his mouth. Within a few moments, the color of his face
changed from white to deep red and then to an unhealthy
blue. I injected stimulants immediately, first into his arm and
then directly into his heart, noting the dark color of the
cardiac blood as I pushed the plunger home. Then I waited.
His pulse flickered irregularly for a few seconds, then stopped
completely. No signs of respiration could be detected. No
heart sounds could be heard. My father was dead!


I called the family doctor and told him not to hurry. As I
awaited his arrival, I sat crushed by the experience and by the
terrible sense of loss. And then a horrifying thought of monstrous
proportions began to rise in my consciousnessa
thought which would blot out all other thoughts and feelings
for days on end. <i>I had been instrumental in causing my father's
death</i>. True, my father had been suffering from heart disease
for over a year and he might have died at any time. But I

[p. <i>110</i>]

The unbearable conviction caused me immediately to increase
the dose and frequency of my demerol injections. I
began to use 5 to 6 c.c. of demerol every three hours, no
longer caring whether my condition was obvious or not. I
attended the funeral in a narcotized trance, hardly aware of
what went on. I can only recall helping my mother out of the
big black car and supporting her as she wept and fainted at
the grave. Everything else that happened that day is a blank
in my mind.


Throughout the week that followed, my grief-stricken
mother was incapable of attending to the swift degeneration
in my physical appearance and personality, and my friends
attributed my state solely to grief over the loss of my father.
Actually, I was incapable of fully appreciating this aspect of
my tragedy. I was aware only of the chancrous ulcer of guilt
which eroded my brain. Large doses of demerol only provided
temporary relief.


Some time during that week, Helen called to offer her condolences
and asked me to meet her. But now I was no longer
capable of enduring the weariness and frustration of our
strange evenings together. I decided that no companionship
was an improvement over the kind we had shared. Perhaps
in a fit of revenge, or perhaps because it appeared to be the
easiest way out, I made a date with Helen and then failed to
show up. The next morning she honored me with a scathing,
vituperative phone call.


In the ensuing weeks, I spent most of the time in a drugged
lethargy, either alone in my room or alone in my office. I

[p. <i>111</i>]

One evening in the early part of May I took an injection of
6 c.c. of demerol and started out the front door. A number of
my mother's friends had just departed and she sat alone with
her grief on the front patio. As I paused to shut the screen
door, my legs became paralyzed and I was unable to move
from the spot. Beads of perspiration covered my face. I felt
as if I was going to faint. As I slumped toward the ground, my
mother leapt up to support me. Leaning on her, I reached and
collapsed into one of the metal porch chairs.


While I gasped for breath, I could hear my mother crying.
She knew, she said, that I was using drugs again. She begged
me to take stock of myself, to recognize what had become of
me as a result of my addiction. I needed help at once, and she,

[p. <i>112</i>]

As I fought to hold back the tears, I was overwhelmed by
feelings of guilt, self-deprecation and unworthiness. I was despicable,
callous, unclean; undeserving of the precious and
wondrous love which is only a mother's to give.


Suddenly she stopped talking. Her emotion dissipated in the
verbal outburst, she stood before me weary and forlorn. The
tears fell from her eyes without any sound of weeping. I leaned
forward to grasp her trembling hands and, whispering softly,
I promised that I would cooperate and accept help, that I
would recover and make her proud of me again. Then as my
symptoms abated, I rose and embraced her tenderly. Weeping
shamelessly, we clung together, mother and son, beneath the
evening sky.


Later, when we had composed ourselves, we went into the
house to discuss the problem in a calmer fashion. My great fear
was exposure, and I summarily rejected the idea of calling in
the family doctor and admitting myself to a private hospital.
I was even more frightened at the thought of returning to Dr.
Blair, whose name I immediately associated with electro-convulsive
therapy. But I realized even before the discussion was
over that I would see Dr. Blair. I knew him, I knew that he
could be trusted, I felt that he was competent and I knew that
he would help. Within the hour my mother was dialing his
office number. Brusque initially, he said that he would come as
soon as possible when he recognized my name. He arrived
shortly thereafter and, after examining me and talking with
my mother, suggested that I go with him to Dolores' nursing
home.

[p. <i>113</i>]

If Dolores was shocked to see me again in my present condition,
she concealed her feelings expertly. Little time was
wasted. After a few minutes of general conversation, I was
prepared for therapy and the electrodes were placed against
my temples.


Three days of oblivion followed.


On the fourth day I became aware of my surroundings and
I learned about the circumstances attending my arrival. Once
again, I dwelt in that half world of partial amnesia, in which
the recent past was clouded and I could not associate names
with people and places.


In the afternoon of that day, my mother arrived, accompanied
by Lilian and an uncle. They informed me that they had
come to take me away. Still too confused to understand what
was happening, I simply went with them out of the house. As
we walked to a car, they told me that I had received three
electro-shock treatments during my withdrawal period. They
said that they had consulted two prominent psychiatrists, both
of whom had frowned on the therapy I had received. The
psychiatrists had advised that I be removed from the nursing
home at once and taken to a private hospital just outside of
Miami. Enroute, I learned that we were on our way to visit the
psychiatrists in their offices prior to my entering the private
hospital.


While I was trying to assimilate these facts, my mother
made a statement that utterly baffled me. Throughout the last
three days, she said, I had repeatedly expressed my love for
Janice and a desire to marry her. Although the name sounded
familiar, I did not have the slightest idea who Janice was or
what she looked like. In fact, I was not aware that I was, or
recently had been, in love with anyone.

[p. <i>114</i>]

In the course of my interview with the two psychiatrists,
they both came out strongly against the use of electro-convulsive
therapy in cases of withdrawal. What I needed now, they
said, was time to recover, and once my amnesia lessened there
would be no purpose in keeping me hospitalized. Although I
had fully expected that they would, oddly enough, they made
no recommendation that I undergo psychotherapy.


During my first few days at the private hospital, I was placed
under the surveillance of a private nurse. Then the nurse was
discharged and I was allowed to roam the grounds at will.
Although my memory had improved a great deal, I continued
to be bothered by what my mother had said about Janice. I
still could neither remember who Janice was nor associate any
special emotion with the name.


About a week after my admission, I received a visit from
my family together with a tall attractive young woman. As
the group approached me, Lilian hurried out in front to
whisper that this was Janice. I embraced and kissed Janice
dutifully and perplexedly. Shortly afterward, my family departed,
leaving us alone.


For reasons wholly different from mine, Janice was as surprised
by the turn of events as I. She told me how happy
she had been to learn of my deep love for her and my desire
to marry her, and chided me for my shyness and reticence
which had kept us apart so long. We would, she assured me,
make up for lost time as soon as we were married.


Utterly confused, I wondered when I would finally wake
up. Was I really in love with this woman who sat beside me?
Was it merely my amnesia which prevented me from feeling
the emotions usually associated with love? Hard as I tried, I
could not break through the veil which obscured comprehension

[p. <i>115</i>]

During the remainder of my stay at the hospital, Janice
visited me daily, and although the past gradually came back to
me, I still could not recall that I had ever been in love with
her. Nevertheless, in mid-May, 1953, when I was discharged,
I had almost accepted the idea that I was and that the full
meaning of our relationship would become evident at some
later date.


Automaton-like I returned immediately to the mockery of
my office. Janice phoned me every day and I visited her home
in Delray once during each week and every week-end. Once
again I had to re-familiarize myself with people, places and
incidents from the past, to relearn the highway, which always
seemed about to end just ahead of me. I spent a good
deal of time cavorting with Janice's daughter Nicky, for whom
I felt a genuine affection; we swam together, collected shells,
went to outdoor movies and played around the house. Meanwhile,
Janice busied herself, as well as me, with plans for our
forthcoming marriage, which had been set for June.


I concurred passively with every arrangement she made,
almost as if I were not involved. Janice exhibited no sign of
resentment, perhaps interpreting my attitude as one of befuddled
approval.


Between visits to her, I wrestled with myself continuously.
It just didn't make sense. I still couldn't comprehend the situation.
I felt no more in love with Janice now than on the first
day I had seen her at the hospital. Yet I would be marrying
her in a few weeks. Even as I debated the situation in my
mind, I was possessed by the conviction that the marriage
would never take place. But what would prevent it? I had
formulated no plan

[p. <i>116</i>]

Early in June I started using demerol again. I took the first
injection fully cognizant of the consequences, almost hungering
for the effect of the colorless liquid. I quickly exceeded
the upper limit of my previous dosage of 7 c.c., and all the
signs and symptoms of use reappeared. Before two weeks had
passed, my mother suspected the truth. Returning home one
day from a visit to Janice, I was surprised to see my sister and
immediately I understood the significance of her presence.
Waiving preliminaries, she declared that she knew I was using
demerol, that she had arranged for my admission to a private
psychiatric institution near Baltimore and that she was now
taking me there. In the argument that followedfor reflexively
I put up some resistancemy sister and mother said
that I needed more help than they alone could give to achieve
a lasting cure. They were beginning to understand, I realized,
that withdrawal itself represented no solution to my problem.


Finally, I yielded. The following afternoon a nurse arrived
to accompany me on the flight to Baltimore that evening. At
the airport in Miami, I shambled into the men's washroom to
take a last injection of demerol.

