TRANSCRIPT OF AUDIO FILE:
______________________________________________________________________________
BEGIN TRANSCRIPT:
Client 0222-115 Interview #9
February 16, 1971
COUNSELOR: Still warm?
PATIENT: Yeah but it did not come close to what they predicted. I guess that 40 loop. They predicted 52. I heard I went to bed last night. I never heard it; that is just what they told me. 
COUNSELOR: I heard a little more than 40. 
PATIENT: A humbling experience, I sat and watched everybody else get a paycheck today. Mine is delayed two weeks so I will not get one until the first of next [0:01:01.8]
month. 
COUNSELOR: Want a cracker? 
PATIENT: No. I have just been dying of thirst all day and it does not seem to matter how much I drink, I am still thirsty, so I imagine a cracker would total me out.
COUNSELOR: Do you with peanut butter or a salty cheese cracker. 
PATIENT: Well, I have got a few problems alleviated. I got a letter from Jessica and that is kind of a stand off. We both just kind of said that we are fucked but we really do not know what is wrong or what to do about it yet. Although neither one of us is really anxious to break up the relationship. We just do not know what it is that is bothering us about it. [0:01:59.5]
COUNSELOR: So like you have at least agreed that there is something wrong.
PATIENT: Oh yeah. We have kind of been admitting that a little bit more for the last three months and after this last little episode it is I will give it any extent necessary to make it clear that I think there is a problem. Most of the problem with the problem or something like that is that we are just still so separated that it is hard to do anything about it though. Writing a god damn letter that really says anything. I can talk to no end and I usually do and writing a letter, I have written 20 some page letters just trying to explain a couple of issues and even then I look at it and just kind of hope that maybe it says what I am hoping to say. So letters are a bummer. Long distance phone calls, I cannot afford. I just paid $140.00 for last month's bill. Jesus. So, I do not know. I borrowed [0:03:13.5]
a little bit of money; it might help me through. I have only got two weeks to go until I start at least half a paycheck anyway, so that is starting to come through. Thinking about what happened a week ago Tuesday when I was here, I got so uptight I found that I can kind of trip back into that idea, that fantasy of waking up from reality or whatever it is just thinking about it. Although unless I am really worn out or depressed or something like that it usually does not scare me like that. Something that seems so [0:04:02.9]
strange about it, I can see it is maybe just from being excited or upset or something like that. It just adds to the confusion and the fright when I am really depressed when I really get wrapped up in that, I start hallucinating things. I did not notice it a whole lot that night up here. It was everything looked normal; it was just perception of whether it was there or not that I was doubting. I have noticed since then that I can sit, like at work I have a shelf in front of me with some law books and things like that and I will just sit there and stare at that and it will expand and contract and kind of go out of focus and things like that. I do not know whether I am doing it or whether I am hallucinating it. Whether I am crossing my eyes or what. It kind of adds to the effect. But like I said in that kind of situation, it does not scare me, I almost feel a little more [0:04:59.6] 
objective of the fright. I also kind of realized one other thing that one of the few stable chains that I have found in these times when I feel like maybe I have gone through somewhere and ended up in another place that has already supplied me with a memory that fits what happened before but is not the same. Like something happened here and I remembered something happening here but it is not the same as what actually happened here. The only thing that I find constant chain is, is my relationship with Jessica. That I can always fall back on. Whether it was Jessica and one before, I cannot say because I do not know whether there was one before or whether I am just that nuts. I can always go, if that ever happens to me I always look up and say, "Well there is still a relationship there like there was in the other one or I feel confident that there was." Well like I said there is a continuation of supposedly everything but that is always the one that I first [0:05:59.0] look for. That I first kind of fall back to relate myself with. 
COUNSELOR: That is like a very important reference point or something. 
PATIENT: Well I had not considered it as being that before but I look at it and yes it probably is that. It was not at least a conscious important reference point. It was something that I just automatically flip to. I can see that that has been going on for a long time. Like the first time that I had that really bad acid trip. One of the last things that happened, I do not really remember it very clearly, was that I was trying to call Jessica and I remember looking at my watch every few minutes before I finally blew it apart completely and I do not remember much after that. Every couple of minutes I [0:07:02.6]
would look at my watch and I would not realize what I was looking at or what it meant. But they kept saying that Jessica would be here late or something like that. I remember it kept getting closer and closer and I kept getting more and more terrified because it kept taking longer and longer. That and of course afterwards, it was Jessica that kind of reconfirmed where I was. It was she that I was with when I realized that I had not actually flipped through or if I had that it was somewhere that I would carry on. 
COUNSELOR: What sort of comes to my mind, that in all these situations, she is something that is really real in your life? I mean that is sort of the same thing as maybe a reference point but she like always comes out clear. You know who she is. You know what she means to you. You know you have a relationship with her and that you do not doubt. [0:07:57.9] 
PATIENT: Well it is not even quite that I know that I have a relationship with her because like I could not say whether it was Jessica before. But I look for that relationship, a relationship of that type, something that means that to me whether it be Jessica, whether it be anything. It is that relationship that I look for. 
COUNSELOR: I see. I see. 
PATIENT: Not necessarily Jessica herself. Jessica seems to be the name that I attach to it as I look up and go, Jessica is still there. Of course, in my weird fantasy, I could not get into it right now, like when I am really into that position when I suddenly feel like something has lost track and something else is started, I do not know whether it is a Jessica, whether it was a human or whatever before, but there was a relationship there. 
COUNSELOR: A feeling of being with is stronger than who it is or something. 
PATIENT: Right. [0:09:01.4] 
I had not thought about it before really but I just kind of realized that since I have started work, except for a brief encounter, just stopping and talking to somebody in [0:10:02.0] the mailroom or something, I have not really seen anybody at home. Although I have not missed it that much. I might play cards with them for a half hour or an hour in the evening or just talk to them a little bit, but I have not really talked to anybody or been around anybody much. I have not seen Josh for a long time. He has been out doing political work every night. Josh likes nothing better than to be a freak. One of the reasons that I was glad that he came up was. I do not know why but Boise seems to have a far greater percentage of dopey people or dopey kids than any place else I have ever seen. They kind of have a sub culture all of there own that is self contained. They do not date or do this or that. Everything is surrounded around drugs. It is kind of a one way trip. Their mode of exchange is drugs. They do not date, they just go to a drug [0:11:00.8] party and happen to meet somebody there. They do not work. They sell dope to each other. I was really interested to see him come up here in hopes that maybe he would get out of that and he seems to be a little bit. He has got some ambition now as far as the political work. Josh digs that kind of stuff. He has found himself a couple of freaks so he is at home. He goes to the political conventions and gets stoned with his freaks and they have a lot of fun. I really have not seen him except for maybe twice in the last week and a half. 
COUNSELOR: I cannot tell from how it sounds like there is still a realization that you are reporting. I cannot tell whether it bothers you or
PATIENT: That I have not seen him?
COUNSELOR: Yeah. Josh or anybody else.
PATIENT: No. It does not bother me. In fact, that is what kind of surprised me when I first noticed it. That although I have not seen anybody, this is the first time that I have noticed it. 
COUNSELOR: This has gone on for what two weeks a week? [0:12:01.3] 
PATIENT: Well at least a week. I come home in the evenings and I am usually so tired, of course, last week I was so upset that I could hardly talk. This week I am just tired. Last weekend I spent the whole weekend recuperating. Really nothing that I wanted to do except just sit. I was not conscious of it looking back on it. Maybe I was just kind of waiting for myself to settle back together. It was not enjoyable but it certainly was not painful. It had good results so I guess you could call it enjoyable. 
COUNSELOR: Almost restorative.
PATIENT: Yes. No I have a feeling that this is as much the weather as anything but I want to get out. Nothing I want better. Last August, September somewhere [0:13:03.0] along there, I went to a place out in northwestern New York that is this entire forking state is the only pretty country I have seen. I just have a terrible urge now just to get out of the city, and I would like to go out there one of these weekends and camp if we get a decent weather. I am just kind of looking for a little bit of pleasant excitement. I do not really feel too ambitious. I guess now that I have got the job, I know that I am in the position where I can wait comfortably, or I have to wait or I have got no choice, so I am ready to sit back and do that since I can do that semi-comfortably. [0:14:00.6 to 0:16:53.7 is silence]
Did you go to the Lascivious Ball?
COUNSELOR: No. We were thinking about it but we did not.
PATIENT: That is the most insane thing I have ever been to in my life. 
COUNSELOR: Was it fun?
PATIENT: It was a gas. We were all pretty ripped up and I went in there and I knew that it was really supposed to be strange. I was here I think when they had it last year. At any rate, I remember them talking about it last year but I did not go. We all smoke a little weed. Then we went over to a friend's house and four of us dumped a lid of weed in a cup of honey and some other garbage in it. It looked like tar and tasted about the same by the time we finally finished it, but we split it four ways. We went to the Lascivious Ball and got inside and hardly knew what was happening from one minute to the next. But everywhere you looked there was something completely insane, just blow your mind. Like they had special things going on in different rooms and you hardly knew when you were in a room where something special was happening or when you were [0:18:00.7] out because it was complete insanity everywhere you looked. It was just a real gas. That reminds me of something. I do not remember what it was but a while back the last time I did acid I think I got kind of uptight. At any rate, some guys suggested we go to the point, I think I told you about that. I remember on the way there, they were all, I do not know whether they were doing it on purpose, but it kind of struck me as awfully helpful. From being on the bad end of a couple of bad trips, I have kind of, I do not know whether it would be the same for other people, but I have some ideas on what would really help out. I remember they all started acting kind of crazy. At first it got me uptight because it did not make sense what I wanted to grasp was a little sense. I would turn [0:18:57.4] around and they would sit there and sing songs like at one point they were all singing the old theme song from the Mickey Mouse Show that I probably saw twice in my life. I was so young. Just doing freaky things like that and every now and then I would turn around and go boy you guys sure are weird. They would go, "We are weird?" and look at me. After a while it made me feel good because if they could be that crazy, I certainly was not in bad shape. It was really interesting. I do not know what brought that up but just the Lascivious Ball, thinking about how crazy it was, just kind of reminded me of it.
COUNSELOR: I guess what comes to my mind is they did not make you feel that you were so far away from them or something. 
PATIENT: Right. Yeah. In fact, there were times when someone would say something and it did not make sense and I would correct them. They would go, "Well [0:19:59.1] 
I do not know, I guess." It gave me a sense of being together. Although I remember later what I said, I cannot even remember what they said exactly, something I said did not really make a whole lot of sense I realized later and they still went, "Well I guess, I do not know." So maybe they were just kind of racked up themselves. It was helpful. One thing that Josh told lately that quite upset me. My brother used to tell me of a friend or acquaintance whatever a person that you needed was very very hung up on dope and the guy was of the nature the one time he and David were walking down the street. The guy saw a pill on the sidewalk and I wonder what it does and ate it. It was just his reaction. If there is any kind of pill or something like that, you eat it. Josh brought home from one convention, two tiny little capsules and he said I got hold of some THC and [0:21:03.0] 
I knew damn good and well he did not. It is super expensive to make it is too expensive for the black market. I got it. Nobody is going to spend $30.00 to get stoned. It is what I have been told it would cost. From what I have heard of the procedure to make it that it would not surprise me at all. I do know that THC is never real. There were two kids in Boise that were in the hospital there was something called PCP. One of them was in a coma. I told that to Josh and he did not believe me but I refused to take whatever he had two of them. I refused to take the other one. This was to go to the Lascivious Ball. So he went to everybody that was around and offered to give them a hit of THC. They all said you are crazy. They all said what is it really? He finally kind of starting conceding the point that if all of us said that maybe it was not. He said, "Well the stuff I have gotten from this guy has always been good." "So look at it that way." "I will [0:22:02.3] 
take one just to show you my faith in it." Nobody would still take it, but he finally decided he was not going to take any because nobody would drop with him. So he went to the Lascivious Ball and ended up snorting both caps of whatever it was and it kind of put me uptight that he would be willing to do that after we had already told him the dangers that could be involved. Hell it could have been STP or could have been strychnine. It could have gone one extreme to the other. He just seemed to take it for granted. He seems to take an awful lot for granted that all people of his type are good people. Freaks are good people to him. He would rather be around them than around anybody. We got burned up here one time. We were down in old town and some spade came up to me and asked if I wanted to buy some grass. I told him no. The oldest game in the world. Josh came up to me and said, "Well come on man, we have got [0:23:04.3] to get some weed." "This guy offered to sell me some." and I told him, "I already turned him down once." Josh said, "Well he is a good guy, I know it." So I went ahead with him. I gave Josh ten bucks and he said I will have to get the grass the guy took the ten bucks and split and, of course, that is the end to that. I think it is the first time that Josh had every realized that maybe everybody with long hair and bell bottoms is not going to be too cool of a dude. He still seems to have kind of a na�ve trust in that type of thing. He still believes that everybody that is a flower child; that looks like one, is one. 
COUNSELOR: Yeah. Yeah.
PATIENT: I am kind of afraid that one of these days he will get a little too rude of an awakening. But I know if I should say anything to him, I will be butting into his life or trying to make an ass of him or something like that. 
COUNSELOR: You mean that is how he will interpret it?
PATIENT: Yes. I have tried before and I know that is the way that he [0:24:03.0] 
approaches it. He seems to be super sensitive to what I say to him. I talked to Jack Larkin about it and Jack made a suggestion that seemed to make a lot of sense. Josh gets along with people real well. He makes friends with them, they like him, he likes them almost right off. I had always taken that for granted that that is the way he felt too, but Jack suggested that since he has only been here maybe a month and a week or two he could still feel that I am probably his strongest contact around here and that he is overly sensitive to what I am saying. I had not really thought of that before and thinking back I remember at least four or five months before I felt at home around here. Although I am not quite as extroverted as Josh is. Quite. At any rate, that could be it. 
COUNSELOR: But still it sounds like it makes it very hard to get through to him in some ways. Like he could be actively endangering himself. [0:25:05.4]
PATIENT: Very much so. I know that. I have known people that have ended up on STP when they thought it was mescaline, they are stoned out for three days and god only knows being that ripped for three days is a hell of a hassle and it can ware you down an awful lot to where you just do not function right. God, I would not want to be ripped out that long. 
COUNSELOR: It sounds like he makes you feel like an intruder like you are putting a heavy judgment on him or something like that if you try to make what really feels like just a suggestion. 
PATIENT: Well he makes me feel like I am contemning him and it is not. I am trying to offer some help and he turns it into a condemnation. Josh is just in a round about way quick to criticize me if I should lose my temper or even in cases where I [0:26:03.6] 
am trying to compliment him, he will misunderstand me. Sometimes he will say it at the time, sometimes he will wait a week or two and then tell me, that was not a very nice thing to do. I usually end up feeling very badly about it. Sometimes I try and explain and he just gets mad because he thinks I am trying to bullshit him out of my blame. He seems to be very sensitive in that all the way around. I do not know what to do about it. In general, we can get along pretty good. Usually when we get pissed off at each other, or things just get completely confused, we do not seem to get it explained, we just give up and let it drop and it does not seem to carry over into a grudge. Normally I would be worried about that kind of thing but Josh will not seem to carry a grudge very long. 
COUNSELOR: But is also seems like it would be like you are saying at this [0:26:59.4] point, we cannot work anything out either. We have to let it drop and evaporate. There is no way to get clear about it or something like that.
PATIENT: Right. It is like you are definitely not making any head way in the way of actively explaining the situation at hand, but at least you are not inflaming the situation by hassling over the problem. You just go on and hope that the time will put you in better positions to understand what is going on. I often wonder how I get on these things. 
COUNSELOR: Yes. It looks like you are saying beautiful turn of grace no what the hell does that mean? 
PATIENT: Ouch. Oh god. 
COUNSELOR: What?
PATIENT: That is the kind of thing that makes me feel old sometimes. 
COUNSELOR: Do you have a trick shoulder? [0:27:58.4]
PATIENT: I have a terrible shoulder. 
COUNSELOR: Oh yes. I remember.
PATIENT: The police just tore the hell out of it. It does funny things. I cannot throw over hand at all. It is strong enough. I can lift weights but any kind of loose whipping action will really pop it out. Although it is getting easier. The ligaments are getting kind of like spaghetti anymore. I have popped it maybe four or five times now, and I am getting to where it is not very painful and with one other person's help I can grab it and pop it back in myself. 
COUNSELOR: Oh.
PATIENT: But I am waiting until the next time and dislocate it, although it will probably inflame the situation, I want to make it to the doctor with it still out, so I can reconfirm how screwed up it is and continue my one walk. I have dislocated it twice since the original dislocation but I have reset and now I do not have any medical record [0:29:03.7] to prove that it is still fouled up. 
COUNSELOR: Well that hurts me just to talk about it. I do not know why. I have never had any dislocated anythings but I have seen a lot of kids on the sports fields that have them and it looks like some of the world's most intense pain. 
PATIENT: Yeah. They are sure ugly. Strange enough, I think the most painful thing that ever happened to me is when I dislocated my toe last summer. I was down on the beach and had a log that had been burning, so I grabbed it by one end and rolled it down and dumped it in the water and then just kind of slung it back up on the beach. I was in bare feet and it started rolling back towards me. I knew it was still hot. You know it was steaming and hissing. So I just jumped up in the air to let it roll underneath me and it stopped right underneath me. So I tried to straddle it and I caught it right between my big toe and the toe next to it. It split the big toe out and popped it. It did not burn [0:30:00.5] me but I do not even remember exactly what happened after that. I kind of came to and I was in convulsions and just going crazy. It scared the hell out of Jessica. It scared the hell out of me. But the shoulder was not terribly painful until later between the mace in the face and the clubbed head and the kicked in ribs and everything else, it took me a while to focus on the fact that my shoulder was pretty painful. I used to really miss having that shoulder being capable. I used to love to throw a football. I never played basketball. I never tried. At first it really tore me up. I lived out in the [0:31:06.2] country still then or at least at one point shortly after that I lived with my folks for a couple of weeks and they had a house out in the country. I used to go out and throw a rock at a Starling or something like that and for the first couple of months even, I would forget about that shoulder and I would go outside and throw a rock at something just terribly painful. I would kind of worry me that if it did not heal, as I was afraid it would not and as it has not, I would be in the position where for the rest of my life that I probably would not be able to do that kind of thing. I thought it would really be a handicap. But although I still think of that kind of thing, anymore, I do not miss it much. Either I have reconciled myself to it or it has just been so long since I have done it that I really do not miss it anymore. War stories. (laughter) [0:32:01.6]
Today I start the second six months of my probation. I called Jessica Saturday night. I had talked to a friend of hers and mine in between and knew that she had gotten my letter and written back so that my goal of having gotten the one directional response is succeeded in. In the course of the conversation, we both started talking about [0:33:02.7] how looking back since last October for instance when we re-excommunicated by her folks, seems so long and so short in many different variations and that even looking back kind of seems to pulsate to what is a long time ago. What went fast and what went short and even in different view points of each way. Like looking back to last September back to my trial, it seems like such a short six months that I am here already. Looking back on what has happened since then, it seems like it would take 20 years for it to happen. This kind of like time has always been the one thing I could depend on. It is kind of the web which excludes you from eternity because it is always one directional. [0:34:02.9] 
You have to travel along it and yet it is like finding the nick where it is not there quite altogether there after all. 
COUNSELOR: You mean as you look back on it, it is not that clearly measured or 
PATIENT: Right. Its time is not so definable. 
COUNSELOR: Like it does things.
PATIENT: Uh huh. 

COUNSELOR: What about the next six months of that. Is that some sort of stretch ahead for you
PATIENT: No. In fact, that does not look bad at all. That is strange. I had not thought of that for a while too. I am looking forward to spring and summer so much. [0:35:00.9] Fall scares me. When I was eighteen, even long before that, I used to start getting uptight when the holidays would come around because as far back as high school, it meant grades and it meant financial hassles because of Christmas and such. My money would always run out by November from whatever I had done in the summer before. Just all kinds of hassles. And the second year of college, the girl I had been going with for four or five years, I found out she had been going to bed with this other guy for three months, and I had been so stupid as to just kind of ignore the fact that she was flaunting it in my face. We reconciled ourselves and had a pretty good time together until the next fall when she broke up with me again and that was about the time that I had the [0:36:00.3] nervous collapse. It got kind of to the point where for no real reason I will go into the fall of the year just kind of tense, looking over my shoulder, just waiting for something to happen. 
COUNSELOR: Yeah. Like expecting something. 
PATIENT: It does not help me avoid making something happen because I am so uptight. Right now I have a job and it is a fairly good one. I am happy with it. I just hope to be able to sit back and let things kind of come back together for six months. It seems to be the way that I spend the summers here. Last summer just kind of went by in a haze. I worked during the week. I went out and got stoned with four or five people during the weekends. We rested up Sunday. I went back to work Monday. We figured it out, we would spend five days a week working, three days of the week we would [0:37:03.7] spend, well two days of the weeks we would spend securing whatever kind of dope we wanted for the weekend. Then we would spend one day stoned and one day recuperating. It would just go in a cycle like that. We had a hell of a good time. We did not have any real milestones to notice the passing of time. It just kind of drifted on by. I kind of look forward to it happening that way again. I hope it will be a little more advancement from this one. 
COUNSELOR: It was like it was pleasant but it did not get you anywhere really. 
PATIENT: Well yeah. It was another one of those circles that I foresaw when I started this job. The job will land one of these days. I will still be broke. I will still be out of school. I will still be here in New York. I will still be screwed up. I will still [0:37:54.3] be just wasted. Sometimes I often wonder if it is not just either too much egotism or too much selfishness or something like that that gives me those feelings. Like I was telling you one time that it kind of comes down to the point somedays when the only thing I can look for to make the day seem at all worth living is that somebody laughed at a joke or something like that. Sometimes I wonder if I am not expecting too much. If maybe I am selfish to want something for me out of it, or even if it is not for me, if I am [0:39:06.4] expecting too much that I should be able to do more. As much as I consider that possibility, I cannot seem to make it workable. I cannot seem to reconcile myself to the fact that the day really was worthwhile. It is almost a mute point. It is a thing of theory, of technicality or whatever. 
COUNSELOR: The fact that it really does matter whether someone laughs or whether you are able to do something for someone. 
PATIENT: I really do feel like the day was wasted even if they do only laugh. I cannot really feel that I am being selfish or that I am being over expectant because that is just the way I am. I do expect it or I do want it. 
COUNSELOR: Yeah. Yeah.
PATIENT: When I get uptight, that is the kind of thing that I cannot really [0:39:59.6] reconcile myself with because when I really get to feeling that something is wrong I kind of look to those like what I can say right now that I do feel and just go on. When I really get uptight I look at them and wonder if there is not something wrong with me that I do feel. If maybe I should not try and change or if maybe I should feel that the day has been completely worthwhile even thought everything went wrong but that one point. When I was writing the letter, I got a letter from Jessica last, it was a package, god it had all kinds of shit in it. 
COUNSELOR: Sounds delightful.
PATIENT: Well it had no. Well it kind of bummed me out a little bit because it is the first mail I had gotten from her and it had no recent letters. It was just a collection of pictures she had drawn, poems she would write, and a few half finished or finished letters that she wrote during the early or middle part of January. One of them, she [0:41:04.7] had a note at the first of all these letters that said take note of the dates. Then she explained that one of them where she really just told me that I was just a really poor fucker was that she was really depressed when she wrote it. I wrote back in defense or whatever of a lot of the things that she accused me of that it was obvious that she normally would not say those and that she was depressed. I wrote back and I did it realizing my own positions when I am depressed and kind of projecting them into her. It seems that those issues that you feel you feel normally it is just that they are [0:41:56.7] amplified to a more painful or more intimate proportion by being depressed. I do not know whether that is true with her. I am sure it is with me. That things when I am depressed, something that I can easily overcome or just pass on over when I am in a normal state, is a very major obstacle to me. 
COUNSELOR: So are you saying something like at a time like that things get out of proportion and you tend to, like what you were talking about before, you tend to worry about whether or not you should be a certain way. You are not upset about it. You realize I am just that way and maybe I might be things that could be better but this is how I am. [0:42:56.2]
PATIENT: Well even a step further, like when things seem that magnified, that ominous, you also over react to them in like Jessica's letter. It was, I can look at it and not really get over it, upset from it because I know that is not necessarily the way she feels. That was her over reaction to it. But still those things that she did say, I felt I had to respond to in the way she said them. Because like I said, whether she felt them to that magnitude normally she did have those questions and those things did seem like problems to her. I think. Maybe I am projecting that. Maybe she does not even think about them at all when she is in normalcy. 
COUNSELOR: So like there is still, like you just cannot write it off and say oh she was in a bad mood. 
PATIENT: Right.
COUNSELOR: That she did not mean it. You are saying that I am assuming that on some level in some way that she did and those are things that I really need to deal with. [0:43:59.5]
PATIENT: Right. How would you go about that? We had some problems that were simply solved when I went back last time. God. That is a six hour story but she was willing since we have, some of the problems that we had were solved, the problem no longer exists and she kind said, "Well we can forget about it now." I almost [0:44:59.9] felt like reprimanding her for that because forgetting the problems might solve the fact that we are not bothered by them anymore but it does not help the next time we have a problem of misunderstanding or something like that we are still going to have the same problems of communication that caused these. Especially since these problems are no longer painful because we do not have to deal with them as a question, yes or no. We can at least figure out how we can communicate better and get them solved even when we cannot be subjective about it. 
COUNSELOR: Ok. So like when you are dealing with a problem, there is a process that goes on. You work it out. And you are saying you might just remember that it is ok to maybe to forget about the content of that particular problem but the process really has some merit to it. 
PATIENT: Yes.
COUNSELOR: And you ought not to just shove it away out of your life because you will need it again. [0:45:58.8]
PATIENT: Right. A great deal of our problem anyway is the lack of communication. Both because we had not been around each other to know how to communicate with each other as we would like to but because Christ, we are 980 miles apart and it is either expensive or slow and inefficient. It is like here we have had these hassles and now that they are gone, we are just going to go on and wait for the next ones to come up before we are faced with another situation. Maybe the next one we are again going to be involved and we are again going to be wrapped up in feelings and our own viewpoints to where we cannot communicate like we want. We cannot be open with each other. I would rather go ahead and discuss what had caused the problem then so that maybe we will be a little better prepared for whatever might pose as a problem next time. 
COUNSELOR: I see. It is like you are saying ok the problem of conflict part of it might get worked out but what we really need to do is then work on understanding it. [0:47:02.1]
PATIENT: Right. 
COUNSELOR: Why did it happen? How was it that we were not talking to each other or listening to each other whatever your particular thing is and it makes it very uncomfortable for her to say, "Oh, that is over with; we do not have to look at it anymore." 
PATIENT: Well it has not made me uncomfortable so far. I think it was she probably did not even mean it quite in that way but I wanted to make it clear to her that I did not want to have that just dropped. [0:47:27.2 to 0:48:53.0 silent]
I was writing today. It started out as a letter but I am not sure if that is what it [0:49:00.0] will end up as I sometimes just write whatever comes to my mind. The further structuring of my thoughts by putting them into words sometimes help me understand it or put it into symbolic form so that is it easier to move around and function with. And I kind of explained what had been bothering me lately as an identity crisis but I do not know whether that is really what it would be. Certainly there is a loss of identity when you seem to doubt reality or the apparent reality. I do not know. Is that an identity crisis or is that something beyond that when you doubt the entirety of reality. It is like could a person doubt his identity and still admit reality? That would be an identity crisis or is an identity crisis when a person just doubts everything, his existence as well as all the rest of existence. [0:50:00.7]
COUNSELOR: I will tell you something. I have not really read up on that in a long time. I do not know. It sounds like almost to me I had sort of my own version of it and it sounds like I do not know. I am sort of unwilling to attach those kinds of names to things. But it sounds like if you doubt who you are and you doubt what is around you also it must have something to do with identity, but I do not know if that helps. It sounds like it would mean something to you that I get you know. I do not mean that you just want a label for it. That you would like in some way define what has been happening to you. 
PATIENT: Yeah. Kind of. 
COUNSELOR: Are you asking me what it is that is happening to you? [0:50:55.5]
PATIENT: No. No. I really could not expect you to know. Well what I meant is there seems to be two different things to me. One is the person here that doubts himself and realizes the rest of this and that seems like an identity crisis. Ok. When he doubts this plus everything around him, that is an identity crisis also but it is identity of himself and identity of his existence. So they both seem to fit under the same category and yet one of them seems to be considerably more extensive than the other one. Again, that is kind of a mute point. I can call it what I will as far as labeling goes for that, that is [0:52:00.6] easy enough. A perspective would probably be the best description of that. 
COUNSELOR: A what?
PATIENT: Perspective. A (inaudible at 0:52:16.8) once told me the thing about being crazy is that you have to keep the whole thing in some kind of perspective. 
COUNSELOR: I am not really sure where you are on that. It seems to me like the feeling I got was that you were just like oh well I will just drop it or something. I am still not sure what the question was.
PATIENT: Well I am not sure either. That is probably why I was willing to drop it so easily because I do not know how to explain it and it did not really mean that much anyway. I was wondering if there was a distinction. I just remember [0:53:01.0] 
using that term, identity crisis, is this part of this. I got to thinking if that was an incorrect usage of it, whether an identity crisis is a person doubting himself or whether it is a person doubting himself and those things around him or whether it is both and maybe there are two different kinds. Like I said, two different kinds are something that I do not have to deal with so I can call it whichever I wish. Whatever I wish. I was just wondering about my correctness in the writing of it. 
COUNSELOR: I am sort of far away from that in my writing. Like academic reading like that. 
PATIENT: Yeah and psychotherapy and that is your title right? And there is psychoanalysis and there is psychologist and there is one other psychiatrist. [0:54:08.9] What is the difference? I know that the psychiatrist also has to have a medical degree and he can prescribe drugs. Psychologist, is that a person that makes a study of psychology? It is not necessarily practicing it. 
COUNSELOR: Yeah. That is right. There could be psychologists that are not psychotherapists. It happens that I am a clinical psychologist or will be a certified one soon and also a psychotherapist. There are other kinds of psychologists. Bio psychologists, personality psychologists that construct tests, cognitive psychologists.
Psychoanalysis is like it is one way of doing therapy and some psychologists [0:55:03.2] are analytically oriented; psychoanalytically oriented. Some psychiatrists are psychoanalytically oriented. That is like a particular, those people ascribe to a particular theory that is Freud's view of psychotherapy. 
PATIENT: Oh ok. That is what I thought. 
COUNSELOR: And they are particular. You have to really be a quote "official one" you go to school or get training that is even more intensive than being a psychiatrist. No what else was there?
PATIENT: That was it. You covered it. I will be damned. I had heard before a person could supposedly be able to analyze someone, they had to have undergone analysis themselves and that it was supposed to be both very painful. It was suppose to be so revealing that it could really be a hassle to a person. 
COUNSELOR: Yeah. That is right. [0:56:00.5]
PATIENT: Somehow that sounds a little self defeating. I do not know why a person would want to undergo something that made them so aware of themselves that they were upset about it all the time.
COUNSELOR: Yeah. I think there is something very self conscious about that kind of thing. You know, for me, I think it is also kind of important to have had the experience of going through therapy. Like you know what it is like to deal with your own problems in this way and to get a better knowledge of yourself. So I can see it both ways if I really I feel it is important but I do not necessarily place a premium on revealing all the awful things about yourself. They just do it different. I would imagine, I would guess, I do not know if this is a fact that most people who do psychotherapy have been in therapy also. I just sort of assumed that. I am not quite so studied about these things. [0:57:08.8] 
PATIENT: What a terrible lunch today. It is still giving me fits. 
COUNSELOR: I guess we are done with it. [0:57:31.2]
END TRANSCRIPT
