TRANSCRIPT OF AUDIO FILE:
______________________________________________________________________________
BEGIN TRANSCRIPT:
THERAPIST: So take a deep breath, maybe check in with yourself.
CLIENT: Yeah. I've been running around all day. It's been, I feel like things have been busier now that this semester has picked up. Even just for Todd, too. We just both have felt pretty busy. And Trae is going through some crazy thing with sleeping.
THERAPIST: Oh.
CLIENT: He's decided he likes to wake up in the middle of the night a lot, so I feel like we've both been so tired; it really has just been the last week and a half. I don't know what's going on with him. It could be teething or something. 
THERAPIST: Um hmm.
CLIENT: Yeah, so just trying to like, I think, manage a picking up in the pace of school and for Todd and I—both of us—feeling tired, it just has been hectic. Yeah. And I think we've been good in the past about having really low-key weekends, and I was being good about not doing work over the weekends. [00:01:00]
This past weekend we went to a wedding, which is really fun, but it just made the weekend feel really busy.
THERAPIST: No down time.
CLIENT: Yeah. So it was kind of hard going into this week. On Sunday I was like—we got home later and then we had another little—all fun stuff—like we had a neighborhood barbeque that we went to when we got back from the wedding. And then Todd's parents were there that night, so it was just one thing after another of fun -
THERAPIST: Go, go, go.
CLIENT: but there wasn't just time to hang out and get prepared, I feel like, for the week. So it has just been a little frantic, it feels like.
THERAPIST: Umm.
CLIENT: But it also—I feel like it's the same kind of highs and lows that I've experienced. With school, it's been fun that my own research is starting to come together a little bit. I'm taking a course this semester, which is like perfect timing, where basically it's a course that will help me design my proposal for my qualifying paper. [00:01:56]
So it's like holding my hand throughout the whole process. 
THERAPIST: Um hmm, nice.
CLIENT: And the final for that course is my qualifying paper proposal -
THERAPIST: Um hmm.
CLIENT: so it's really nice to have that. So I feel that school's been like a frantic pace but it's also been fun and exciting to get back into it. So I have to keep reminding myself about that too. I feel like it's -
THERAPIST: So how to separate, even though it feels a little bit frantic maybe, that it doesn't need to be (pause for .02 seconds) anxious-frantic?
CLIENT: Right, yeah.
THERAPIST: Or maybe frantic's not the right word cause that kind of sounds anxious, maybe -
CLIENT: Anxious, yeah.
THERAPIST: but some way to characterize being excited about your work and excited about the things you're doing and not have it feel scary or threatening in any way.
CLIENT: Right, yeah. (pause for .02 seconds) Yeah, and it is just that feeling of—I feel like I'm just scraping by, like just getting everything done, and definitely not to the extent that it would have been done before.
THERAPIST: Um hmm. [00:03:00]
CLIENT: I feel like I'm getting better about that -
THERAPIST: Releasing those expectations for yourself.
CLIENT: Yeah. But it's also like I had a draft of the proposal—not really even the proposal, just a memo kind of thing—due on Monday, and I was scrambling Sunday to get it done and then it was due at noon on Monday; and just working up until 11:30 to get it turned in.
And I was thinking I was glad to just get it done and I feel like I didn't spend too much time on it, but part of me kind of wished that I had more time to think about it too —
THERAPIST: Right.
CLIENT: cause it was a good assignment. I was even saying to Todd—he also teaches a methods course—"This would have been really nice—like if you and I just had time to sit and talk about it." It would have been fun to just pick his brain, and I feel like with that one assignment it was just thrown together and just submitted because it was such a busy weekend.
THERAPIST: Um hmm.
CLIENT: So -
THERAPIST: So there's not really enough time in the day or in the week to let things process.
CLIENT: Yeah. [00:04:00]
THERAPIST: To be aware or to be present with what you're doing.
CLIENT: Right.
THERAPIST: Sounds like you're just doing, doing.
CLIENT: Yeah, it definitely has felt busy. But I think it's also—I do think I've been good about not doing too much work at home because I really just don't want to have to do that. When I'm home I want to be spending time with Trae and Todd, and us being a family when we're home, instead of me trying to -
THERAPIST: Cause that's a really important piece of your life.
CLIENT: Yeah, yeah. So I do feel that that's been better and I think it's a little bit more manageable cause I'm only taking the two courses. I think that would've been impossible with the workload that I had before; with the four intense courses.
THERAPIST: Um hmm.
CLIENT: So at least that's a little bit better, but I feel that all these other outside things are kind of piling on too that just kind of make it a little bit more work than I bargained for this semester too.
THERAPIST: Um hmm.
CLIENT: We have the course that I'm teaching assistant for; usually we have around 50 students and we have 90 this year. So that's just increased the workload. [00:05:04]
THERAPIST: Sure.
CLIENT: This is the third year that I've done it and so I had a good idea of how much work it would be, and now we're needing to do some extra things just to make it feel a little bit more of a community in the class cause it is so big; just, you know, holding extra sessions and responding more to student work and things like that.
All things we should be doing but just take so much more time.
THERAPIST: Taking more time than what you had planned.
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: Wow.
CLIENT: So it is just that feeling of each week, like, just scraping by and getting the stuff that I have to have done, but there is just so much stuff that I'm kind of throwing by the wayside too.
THERAPIST: Do you feel like you're scraping by in terms of taking care of yourself as well? Are you worried about your mood or your sleeping or how you're feeling?
CLIENT: Yeah, I think—even like this morning—I still haven't got a haircut. I think I told you that a couple of times ago—like, "All I want is a haircut." [00:05:59]
And it's that feeling of; there's just enough time to get work done and be able to be home and have that time with Todd and Trae, that any of the outside stuff has -
THERAPIST: So you feel like you're just attending to needs.
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: There's no room for wants.
CLIENT: And I do feel like we've been good on the weekends about doing things that we want to do, but I think those are more, like, stuff as a family. I think I don't want to have to take time out of Saturday or whatever to go and get my hair cut, because that's my time when I can finally be with both of them. 
So I feel like it's just hard to figure that out, like when is the right time to do that extra stuff. And it's superficial stuff, like wanting a haircut or I was complaining to Todd this morning, "I feel like I wear the same outfit every single day. " I just want to go shopping.
THERAPIST: Um hmm.
CLIENT: It's like that superficial stuff but finding when that happens, and I know it doesn't matter if or when I get my hair cut. It would be nice to get it cut soon or if I have a new pair of pants, like I can put that stuff off so it's okay. [00:07:04]
THERAPIST: Yeah, it's not so much the stuff that is really important but it's that feeling of—I what think is more meaningful—is feeling like you think you don't have enough time to do the stuff, whatever the stuff is.
CLIENT: Yeah, yeah.
THERAPIST: Will you be okay without another outfit? Yeah.
CLIENT: (laughs) Right.
THERAPIST: But does it feel uncomfortable to you to know that there's this thing that you want to go do -
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: or something that you want to change and you can't find the space to do it.
CLIENT: Right.
THERAPIST: That's probably much more of an impact on you than, you know, actually what your hair looks like or what your clothes -
CLIENT: (laughs) Right, yeah.
THERAPIST: But feeling that squeeze -
CLIENT: Yeah, it does feel like that.
THERAPIST: Feeling like you have to give up something else important to make time for this other stuff that is, you know, it's part of basic living—these are things that you've got to attend to.
CLIENT: Yeah. (pause for .02 seconds) But we do have a good weekend coming up that's planned. We're doing a little mom-and-babies weekend, so a bunch of my girlfriends and I are going—my family has a place in Canada—so there's four of us and our babies are going to go up and stay at our place in Canada, which I think will be really nice.
THERAPIST: Sounds nice.
CLIENT: Yeah. I'm feeling really good. And it is a little weird that, I was thinking that from Todd's perspective, now we have this long weekend when we could all be together, and Trae and I are going to hit the road for the weekend.
THERAPIST: Um hmm.
CLIENT: I think he is ready. He has plans with some of his guy-friends too, so I think it will be nice to have that.
THERAPIST: Yeah.
CLIENT: And I think the group, it's -
THERAPIST: I know your family-time is really precious to you.
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: And part of that is creating this space where it is focused on relationships, and I think having this time away with your girlfriends and all the kids is also fulfilling that need to connect with your important relationships, cause those are important relationships too.
CLIENT: Yeah. And I think that will be good because I was really thinking that we're really good about seeing our friends, as couples, like thankfully we have lots of friends where we all get along. We have lots of couples-friends, but we haven't really done anything—just the girls—for a long time. [00:09:06]
I think that that will be nice. It'll be something different.
THERAPIST: A different dynamic. Maybe get something important from that.
CLIENT: Definitely, yeah. And I know there's one other kind of a friend of my best friend, who I know pretty well—she's another newer mom, so I think it will just be good to have that chance to share our stories and (pause).
THERAPIST: Are there parts of you that you feel like you get to express in those relationships that are different from your relationships with your peers at school or with Todd?
CLIENT: I think definitely being able to connect with other moms, cause I think that there is some stuff—I can talk to Todd about everything because he's the dad, not the mom—he isn't able to one hundred percent understand. And he says that. A perfect example, and another thing I wanted to talk about was: we took Trae for his six-month appointment on Friday and everything went really well, but he didn't really gain as much weight as they thought. [00:10:08]
He gained like—he was 14 pounds at four months and now he's 14.6. He's going on his own little curve -
THERAPIST: Kind of (inaudible at 00:10:20) on the curve. 
CLIENT: So of course that got me all worried, and our pediatrician is so good and not an alarmist or anything. Just talking about now that we've introduced solid foods, she says that we could mix some butter in with his sweet potatoes or olive oil. 
But that's been kind of weighing on me, the whole breastfeeding thing. At the beginning it was really hard and I felt like we got into a good rhythm and things have been better. He definitely has—we've had our ups and downs with nursing but for the most part, I feel like he's been doing pretty well.
And then to hear that he hadn't gained the weight—like automatically I think of it as like (pause for .02 seconds) something with my milk. Is he not getting enough? Or is it not nourishing him enough?
THERAPIST: Um hmm. [00:11:02]
CLIENT: So that was really hard and I was telling Todd all those feelings and he was saying that he understood, but I think he doesn't quite get it. And I was saying that I'm the one—
THERAPIST: Cause there is also this sense of responsibility.
CLIENT: Yeah, responsible for him. Whereas then I was even just texting with my best friend, who's a mom, and she's like, "Oh no. At least I'll see you this weekend." So I feel like that is, to relate on those things that are unique to me as a mom.
THERAPIST: Um hmm. You just feel better understood.
CLIENT: Yeah. And it's not like I can't talk to Todd about it. He thinks he gets it—he says he knows it's hard.
THERAPIST: Right, and he's being supportive in the way that he can, but it's (pause for .03 seconds)—I guess, the true empathy that you feel that you can get from other moms—maybe other moms who breast-feed -
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: feels a little bit different that just him being, I mean—it sounds like Todd's really supportive but he can't empathize, truly empathize, because he's never breast-fed a baby. [00:12:01]
CLIENT: Right. (laughs)
THERAPIST: To no fault of his own. (laughs)
CLIENT: If he could, he probably would try. (laughs) Yeah. So I feel like that has been on my mind too because now, (pause for .02 seconds) at the very beginning, I would put so much pressure on each nursing session, wanting it to go well.
THERAPIST: Um hmm.
CLIENT: There's a part of me that still would do that, but I was getting better about not putting so much pressure on it, especially now that he had been taking a bottle. I remember one time —
THERAPIST: Well you're not nursing as much.
CLIENT: if that didn't go well, it's okay. He's going to have a bottle the next time. And now, I know I shouldn't do it to myself, but I do now feel more of the pressure again of wanting every nursing session to go well just to make sure he's getting enough.
And then with him not sleeping too, of course I'm thinking, "Is it because he's hungry?" and then I go to feed him and he clearly isn't hungry. He's just awake and wanting to play. But now I feel like, since that appointment, I've been on alert with, you know, with the nursing too. [00:13:03]
THERAPIST: Um hmm. Do you know how many ounces he takes by bottle?
CLIENT: He usually does five ounces in a bottle. So -
THERAPIST: Pretty good bottle.
CLIENT: Yeah, I know that's -
THERAPIST: Just like the pediatrician said—she's not alarmed.
CLIENT: Right, she's not. And I wouldn't have guessed—I was wondering, I was just curious how much he weighed cause he didn't feel that much bigger to me. But eating had been going so well so I was surprised because the—not our doctor—but the nurse's initial reaction was like, "Oh, is he a fussy eater?"
And I was like, "No, not at all." We were really surprised.
THERAPIST: So he's taking to that quite well.
CLIENT: Yeah, so we'll see. And thankfully we can go in for a little weigh check -
THERAPIST: Weight check.
CLIENT: so that'll make me feel better too. So it is too bad, because I feel like right when I was getting able to just brush off when it wasn't going so well -
THERAPIST: Right. This sort of has you on high alert again. [00:14:02]
CLIENT: Yeah, I know, yeah. (pause for .03 seconds) So, but I do think it's good that -
THERAPIST: I'm sorry that that came up for you again and it sounds like the anxiety that you feel is probably more than whatever might be going on with him. I mean whether he's, like you said he's being fussy at night, maybe he's teething and that might make him not eat as well —
CLIENT: Right, yeah.
THERAPIST: for this little period just before he went in.
CLIENT: Yeah. (pause for .02 seconds) But I feel like I know those are all the common concerns.
THERAPIST: Right. These are not—this is not in any way kind of like a diagnosable anxiety problem. These are normal concerns.
CLIENT: Right.
THERAPIST: We're just watching how extreme it gets.
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: Because even with a pretty typical concern, you could have anxiety that's more intense than warranted. But I don't think this—I don't think that's what you're talking about.
CLIENT: No, and I don't feel that. Yeah. And it's funny that I feel like when I do have the real worries that I feel like those worries that aren't real kind of subsiding, which is interesting. [00:15:05]
THERAPIST: Um hmm.
CLIENT: Um, because even the other day—I think even, or when was it, yesterday?—there was one thing that I think would have been nagging at me, as like something that would have made me feel anxious, but I feel I was able to just let it slide more because I had other things on my mind and I knew that it wasn't something to worry about. But it was interesting because last night, before I was going to bed, I was almost like testing myself; I was like, "I'm so tired. I feel like I'm just going to fall asleep, but I wonder if this is going to be on my mind."
THERAPIST: Um hmm.
CLIENT: So it was interesting to kind of—and maybe that's a good thing, that I knew it wasn't really a real worry.
THERAPIST: Yeah, that you're able to categorize it and let go of it, in a way that you weren't able to do a year ago.
CLIENT: Right. Or that I can just forget about it. (laughs) But then it came back. It's easier to forget about things and then I'm like, "Oh. I forgot I was worried about that. Should this still be a worry?" [00:16:04]
THERAPIST: And when you ask yourself, "Should it still be a worry?" what do you usually come up with?
CLIENT: In this I knew. It was just a silly—we were in a meeting and I used a phrase—I don't think I've ever used it before. I said something like, talking about walking into a classroom when you hadn't prepared with the other collaborator, and I said, "You know I feel like I'm walking in blind."
And after I said it I was thinking to myself, "Is that a negative phrase?" You know, like, there's some phrases that you don't know the origin -
THERAPIST: Right.
CLIENT: and I'm so—because of the special ed background—so aware of language. And I was in a meeting for our inclusion class, so we were talking about those same issues. I am always someone who would catch someone when they're using language in a negative way, especially around a disability. 
THERAPIST: Um hmm.
CLIENT: It was on my mind, thinking that that probably wasn't such a good thing to say but I wasn't—I just had never heard anyone talk about it before. And after the meeting, I thought to myself, "Well, I was in that meeting with my advisor and another good friend, who I think probably would have called me on it if it were this terrible thing to say." [00:17:15]
And part of me just felt curious about it, because I feel like I am aware of a lot of language associated with disability that people don't realize is negative and they say it.
THERAPIST: And not realize it could be hurtful.
CLIENT: Yeah, so it was more just that, "Oh, I probably shouldn't have said that."
THERAPIST: Umm.
CLIENT: But also a curiosity of wondering more about it, I don't know.
THERAPIST: And so you were able to sort of hear that, feel a little bit uncomfortable not knowing, but it didn't turn into something that you fixated on so much it really got in the way.
CLIENT: Yeah. And I did bring it up to Todd—it was one of my checks—just to say, "I don't even think I've ever said that phrase. I'm surprised it even came out of my mouth."
THERAPIST: Not typical for you to say. [00:18:01]
CLIENT: Yeah. And he's like, "Yeah, I don't think I've ever used it either. It probably isn't the best thing to say (laughs) but I don't think it's so offensive that people would know right away, or be hurtful." But I do feel like it is now more on my mind. I want to check to see, just out of curiosity, to know—
THERAPIST: Or find another phrase to express that feeling.
CLIENT: Exactly.
THERAPIST: So you can avoid the whole thing.
CLIENT: Exactly, yeah.
THERAPIST: I think language is really tricky.
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: Because there's no really—in some cases, there's sort of a generally accepted rule for whether something is offensive or not, but there are so many things that someone might find offensive that somebody else might not. Somebody might feel sensitive to but somebody else might not—there's a lot of nuance and grey area and your intention means so much.
CLIENT: Right.
THERAPIST: Clearly you had no negative intention.
CLIENT: Yeah. (pause for .02 seconds) But I do feel like that's one worry, because I was thinking about it and thinking, "Oh my reaction to this might have been very different before," where it would have been a real worry. [00:19:00]
THERAPIST: Um hmm. Right because the uncertainty really had, would have you very concerned—not knowing exactly what everybody would have felt or perceived about you by using that something that really was a big concern. 
CLIENT: Yeah. 
THERAPIST: And something that then stood in the way.
CLIENT: Um hmm. (pause for .02 seconds) But I do feel like it was similarly a worry about how if I've hurt someone else's feelings. I feel like that is a kind of like a common one.
THERAPIST: Um hmm. I think it's that same idea but it didn't move into an obsession for you.
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: I think what is different is that it didn't become a focal point, you didn't fixate on it, it wasn't something that you ruminated about. You felt some of the same things but you let them pass through.
CLIENT: Yeah. (pause for .03 seconds) And of course then part of me is like, "Well, is it gone or am I going to think about it tonight now that I've just said it to you I feel like it could just go?" You know?
THERAPIST: And you might think about it—but it doesn't—you can think about it and let it move on.
CLIENT: Yeah. [00:20:00]
THERAPIST: It'll probably come back at some point, but you don't have to let it become a fixation and then obsess about it-
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: for a long time, and enough time for it to get in the way of something else. That's where it becomes problematic.
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: When those thoughts end up creating a lot of distress and take up space, and get in the way of doing other things you need to do, whether it be sleep or be able to be present in the conversation with someone.
CLIENT: Right.
THERAPIST: And that seems like the big difference.
CLIENT: Right.
THERAPIST: And that didn't happen.
CLIENT: Yeah, yeah. (pause for .02 seconds) And I do feel like sleeping has been better too, just because we're so tired that -
THERAPIST: When you're up it's because of somebody else.
CLIENT: Exactly. And even that, like it's nice. Like every time I feel so tired and he's waking up, I think, "It's so nice just to be woken up for a reason," instead of me just thinking about things. And there was one night—and I think it's funny—cause there was one night I had trouble sleeping, it was a while ago—last week at one point—and I remember thinking like, "Oh I need to make sure I talk about this." [00:21:07]
And now, yesterday, I was like, "Now what was it? What kept me up?" I felt like that's a big change too, that —
THERAPIST: Um hmm.
CLIENT: I was frustrated with myself that night, I remember, and I don't even—like I was really trying today to remember what night it was even. I feel like before those nights stuck out -
THERAPIST: Really stuck out. You didn't have to think about it.
CLIENT: Yeah. So in a way, I guess, that's good. Or maybe it's just sleep deprivation from Trae not sleeping that is making everything blur together, but it was nice to have that happen one night and then -
THERAPIST: It could be sleep deprivation or you could give yourself some credit and say that you've really let it go.
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: And you know, I'd like to place some significance in the fact that you actually had more control over really letting things go.
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: And so, you know, holding onto whatever it was that kept you up is not really important. [00:22:05]
CLIENT: Right.
THERAPIST: If it was repeated, then it becomes important. But a single incident here, a single incident there; it used to feel really important for you to catalogue them and bring them up. I think it was sort of your way of exorcising them.
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: You know, if you talked about (ph) then you put it away.
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: And now you don't need to do that, in the same way that you don't have to check in as much with other people to sort of assess whether or not you're at fault for something or did something wrong. You trust in yourself to decide whether it's important or not.
CLIENT: Um hmm.
THERAPIST: And if it's not, it can be let go of.
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: And not be in your way.
CLIENT: Yeah, (pause for .03 seconds) which is a lot nicer (laughs) to be able to do that, and to just keep practicing that so that I can (pause for .02 seconds) keep doing that.
THERAPIST: Yeah. (pause for .02 seconds) You've handled that—it's sort of an amazing transformation—really well. So much has changed, both with having Trae of course, and then transitioning from the summer to school. Two really big changes that you've been able to take care of yourself during and keep the skills that keep your anxiety really low going. [00:23:13]
CLIENT: Um hmm. I know, it does feel good to know that it is, I guess—you know, there are definitely harder days than others, but it feels like (pause for .02 seconds) okay, that it's all working out.
THERAPIST: In general, it's working.
CLIENT: Yeah, yeah. But I do—and I know I always bring it up—but I do sometimes worry; will it come back? Will those feelings -
THERAPIST: I know. It's scary.
CLIENT: come back? Yeah.
THERAPIST: Cause I know that the fear of that period kind of returning (pause for .02 seconds) is really scary.
CLIENT: Yeah. And I even noticed—I subscribe to these little on-line forums for moms—and one of the posts that a lot of people have been responding to was a mom who's struggling with depression during her pregnancy. And I almost found myself skimming those because I just didn't even want to think about—people were bringing up like, "Oh, I had a lot of anxiety during my pregnancy and after," and providing resources. [00:24:07]
So it was like this great outpouring from the community, but I almost felt myself—I was thinking to myself, "Don't even read those," because I don't even want to think about, I don't want to get back into that same period of time.
THERAPIST: Yeah. 
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: (pause for .03 seconds) Yeah. That's okay to skim—it's okay to make use of what you want to on those types of things -
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: and leave off the things that maybe hit a little bit too close to home and you want to stay away from.
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: What do you find—what feels useful and supportive? What can you make use of on those kinds of forums?
CLIENT: I read them all the time cause there's always just little things that you're wondering about; all these posts about first foods and things like that. So it's nice to just find other moms out there who are all thinking the same thing.
THERAPIST: Yeah, at the same stage.
CLIENT: Yeah. So it's more—I usually will just scroll through it when I'm nursing or something. You know, just a fun thing. Todd always laughs. He says they're like—all the gossip, like, "Our nanny—we caught her napping on the job." (laughs) [00:25:12]
THERAPIST: (laughs)
CLIENT: Or some of these other responses. So some of them are pretty funny, but some of them are really helpful.
THERAPIST: Yeah. I think it's interesting; it's kind of replaced—because networks of people are so different now -
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: than they used to be. There used to be this real community—not that I've ever experienced it—but back in the day they say, (laughs) you know, of people raising their children together and doing that.
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: And you have some friends that also have young children -
CLIENT: Um hmm.
THERAPIST: but so many of the people that you interact with during your week, don't. So to be able to have another way that—when you have time for it—you can hear what other people are thinking about or see someone that's struggling with something that's similar.
CLIENT: Yeah. It's been helpful. Even just the lactation room at school has been really helpful too, cause a lot of -
THERAPIST: There's a place you'd meet mothers of young children. [00:26:01]
CLIENT: Yeah, you totally would, yeah. (laughs) And I haven't—it was funny, I've met all new people. The first week I was at school, it seemed like no one was even using it. Every time I would go, no one was there and I never saw people coming in or out.
And then the second week of school, it definitely picked up, and there's a good handful of moms that are coming in now.
THERAPIST: That's wonderful.
CLIENT: And one mom I just met before I came over here—and she was saying, "Oh, it's really hard. I feel like I send my baby to daycare and then I come here, but in between running back and forth to pump, I'm really just left with just three or four hours to do work," and I'm like, "That's just what I've been saying."
THERAPIST: That's exactly what you said earlier.
CLIENT: So that's nice cause I feel like that is very specialized to what feelings we're all feeling as grad students and moms too, so that's been helpful. 
THERAPIST: Yeah, I think it's great that you are able to connect with some people and get some empathy and support from people that can —
CLIENT: Yeah. [00:27:00]
THERAPIST: really understand exactly what you're going through right now, cause it's such a unique period of your life -
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: that even talking to someone, you know, "I did this, but I did this three years ago," and I think it's very different.
CLIENT: Um hmm.
THERAPIST: You just forget really quickly.
CLIENT: Right, yeah.
THERAPIST: So to be able to talk to someone who is experiencing this right at that same time —
CLIENT: Yeah, yeah it makes a difference.
THERAPIST: It's a good support. (pause for .03 seconds) Anything else that you feel that we should catch up on or think about?
CLIENT: I think that was everything. I was trying to think of the things I wanted to bring up but (pause for .02 seconds) I do think that last week I would have said like the sleeping thing was something that I was worried about but not it's nice that -
THERAPIST: Now it's not.
CLIENT: yeah, that it isn't.
THERAPIST: So those are moments to remind yourself of, cause when you have a worry, and you think it's a problem, you need to remind yourself, "You know I thought that was going to be an issue last time, but it turned out that it was not."
CLIENT: Yeah. [00:27:59]
THERAPIST: It was a passing thing, cause I think that your biggest fear now is that something's not going to be a passing thing.
CLIENT: Right.
THERAPIST: Each time making note of when things are just a one of, or just a very short phase, so there's not as threatening —
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: as, you know, that time in your life when you were so bogged down with anxiety.
CLIENT: Right, yeah.
THERAPIST: Well let's make some time for relaxation. Before we do that, I have a couple scheduling glitches that I have to address with you.
CLIENT: Okay. (laughs)
THERAPIST: Unfortunately my Tuesday childcare is going away for three weeks.
CLIENT: Oh really?
THERAPIST: I just found out. So I'm doing a little rescheduling (pause for .03 seconds) and so we're fine for the 16th, which is our next appointment; that's fine. I think we were scheduled for the 30th as well, and that day I'm not going to be able to be here that afternoon.
So I don't know what your morning is like; I have some morning times. I'm going to have care for the morning, or I can move you to Monday depending on what your schedule is. [00:29:03]
CLIENT: Okay. Let's see.
THERAPIST: Take your time. I know how that goes.
CLIENT: (pause from [00:29:09] to [00:29:18]} So the 16th works.
THERAPIST: The 16th we can stay normal; it was the 30th—I can offer you a 9:30 or an 11:30 or 12:30, but I have to leave the office -
CLIENT: I bet 12:30 would probably work -
THERAPIST: Would that work?
CLIENT: cause my mom usually gets here around 11 or 11:15, so I think that should be fine.
THERAPIST: Okay. (pause from [00:29:39] to [00:29:46) Great. (inaudible at 00:29:49) a space and if you're running behind, that's okay, I understand.
CLIENT: Okay.
THERAPIST: Just let me know if she's late or something. Obviously, I get how that goes.
CLIENT: Yeah. (laughs)
THERAPIST: And then, I don't think we had scheduled but our normal time to meet would be the 13th and—cause that would be two weeks later—and I'm still unsure about what's going to be happening for me on the 12th and 13th, so I'll keep you posted. [00:30:14]
CLIENT: Okay. And would it be easier to just do 12:30 on that date too?
THERAPIST: Um, I don't know.
CLIENT: Okay.
THERAPIST: To be honest. I was able to schedule sort of my Plan D (laughs) for the 30th but I haven't actually conquered -
CLIENT: Alright, that's okay. It's far enough away that -
THERAPIST: Yeah, I'm hoping that something will settle down.
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: (pause from [00:30:39] to [00:30:48) Oh do you want to do money before you relax?
CLIENT: Oh yeah. I actually already have a check.
THERAPIST: I feel like the business part takes away some of the Zen.
CLIENT: Yeah I know, thank you.
THERAPIST: (pause from [00:31:04] to [00:31:11) So let yourself get comfortable. Settle into a pace of breathing that feels relaxed and natural.
Relaxation session from [00:31:21] to [00:39:09]
THERAPIST: How was that?
CLIENT: That was good. (laughs) Yeah.
THERAPIST: I'm glad.
CLIENT: It's nice. I sometimes try it too when I'm nursing with Trae, if he's—sometimes he's all antsy and fidgety.
THERAPIST: Umm.
CLIENT: It doesn't always work (laughs) but I'll try it and it calms him down too.
THERAPIST: Yeah, if it works, it works.
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: I think I've mentioned that there's some research that babies tend to pick up on their caregiver's stress and sometimes try to match their breathing, so they're kind of falling in rhythm. So it might be able to help sometimes.
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: But there may be times where it's just not going to work.
CLIENT: Right.
THERAPIST: But it's certainly not hurting you. (laughs)
CLIENT: Right. (laughs) Definitely not, no.
THERAPIST: Alright, so I will see you in a couple of weeks?
CLIENT: Great. Good. [00:39:50]
END TRANSCRIPT
