<font size="4"><b>Chapter IV: No More War-Vision and Reality, 1940</b></font>

In January, 1940, I was discharged as cured. I felt
ready for anything. I had trained myself to conquer my
fearsin the knowledge of the adequacy of loveor so I
thought, but I came home filled almost to bursting point
with pity for those I had left. I knew I must continue in
the freedom of home to speak of the need for better
conditions.


What was to bring about the better conditions I did
not know. I had tried to view things impartially from both
sides. I could see the problems of the nurses. I could
understand how difficult was their task.


My minister had been a faithful visitor but he had
failed to meet my questions on the Christian's ways in wartime.
Christianity had become a live way for me but God's
way did not include war. Christ's sufferings were not
God's will. Sickness was not a necessary part of life.
Pain was something we did not need to have in a healthy
body. Somehow my faith in the "easy way" of God met
doubt and opposition in the faith of the church teacher
and the Christian doctrine of the Way of the Cross.


But January had brought me freedom and a pleasant
period of convalescence at home with my relatives, whose
whole desire was to help me to health. This brought
further assurance of the Love of God and His way of health.
I resumed my former place in the home and, with the difference
that I had not yet become ready for school, life went
on as usual.


But at the back of my mind, or rather at the front of

[p. <i>20</i>]

With spring came a resurge of energy and a desire to
be doing something. At home, interest was sustained by
domestic and social interests but in my diary of March I
have noted that I was too much affected by the Easter
service with its thoughts of the Cross and the Resurrectionthe
triumph of the Risen and Living Christthe joy of
Easter. In the night I started talkingwishful, I think,
that others should awake to the joy of Easter and to the
fulfilment of "no more disease, no more war." All we
needed was to grasp hold of the promised life.


But in the home I met only the fear and anxiety of the
relatives. They did not want to arise and rejoice with me.
They wanted to sleep. Perhaps also the months of my
convalescence had seemed more difficult to them than to me.


As in September I had wanted to shout as it were, from
the house-tops, that only love could stop the war, so at
Easter, I again wanted to shout from the house-tops the
message that Easter meant "no more war, no more disease."
The church had shown us the vision. My relatives had
taught me the way of Christ. From them surely then I
was justified in expecting a like Easter enthusiasm.


A visiting aunt and a visiting minister provided fresh
ears for my exuberant messagealso perhaps for my urgent
reports of asylum conditions. But though they seemed
sympathetic, the storm was too great. In my ecstasy and
urgency they could not fully share. I was taken again to
mental hospital. The vision of no more disease soon faded
in the reality of the ward. Had I not had previous experience

[p. <i>21</i>]

Before very long I was removed to a less "awe-full"
ward and in April I was well enough to wish a holiday weekend.
But the "not very long" was long enough to add its
deep impressions of a hell which must somehow be prevented
by the help of God. The Easter hopes of a healthy
living spirit must become reality.


During these months others were finding the hell of
modern warfaresurely again a condemnation of our lack
of Christian love.


My personal problem of sex ignorance had sunk into
the background. I suppose I hardly expected my new
doctors to be any more helpful than the first. I once
mentioned to my doctor my lack of knowledge as cause of
my sickness and I asked him if he could recommend some
books on the subject of sex. He said "No."


I was fortunate in my friends. My relatives never let'
me think they had forgotten me. Greetings came from
many other friends. Outside the hospital grounds there
were about six houses where friends were ready to welcome
me at all hours of the day. My own home was too far for
visits until I had gained more strength so to these nearby
friends I was more indebted than perhaps they or I realised.
Without them, the abnormal atmosphere of hospital would
have been more terrible than it was. Even with them I was
dependent on every force for good within the grounds.
But I felt also I was right in expecting from them as members
of the Christian church some co-operative thought on the
problems which had overwhelmed me.

[p. <i>22</i>]

I had foreseen long weeks ahead and had suggested to
my brother to bring golf ball and golf club so that I might
amuse myself on the putting green. Instead he brought
sufficient clubs to give me a first lesson on the little ninehole
golf course. That first lesson is one of the happy
memories of my hospital life. I was preparing to take
instruction for my first shot. A friendly gentleman patient
came over and said, "Are you going to have a round ?" I
said, "As a matter of fact I am just going to have my first
lesson." "Well," said he, "go and put your coat over that
fence. If you're going to golf you must take golf seriously."
I obediently removed my waterproof coat and hung it on
the fence. My brother, recognising a more masterful
authority, stepped back and my new friend proceeded to
give the very best instructions possible for a novice with
a tired mind.


"Now remember," said he, "it's the club that does the
work." With that, and few further instructions, we made
a start. The club behaved remarkably well and did the
work of hitting the ball quite satisfactorily. I enjoyed my
first lesson in golf. Golf after that became a refreshing
recreation. The course was suited to my first lessons. My
instructor, a very good friend with a fine sense of humour,
kept an eye on my progress and sometimes came over with
patient impatience because I was lifting my head or lifting
my elbow. Two places where one should not lift the elbow,
he informed me, were the public house and the golf course.
Another of his golfing slogans was, "You can't bring your
worries to the golf course. You canna play golf and think
about the weans' breakfast." As I had no "weans" for
whom to prepare breakfast, I tried to concentrate on golf
and found the exercise health-giving. My friend had spent
four years on his back and had read golf books in bed. His
theories had been studied.

[p. <i>23</i>]

But although I had no children I was still living in the
community of mental patients. I was still seeing daily the
sufferings of mind of those shut in. Golf did not always
seem the most important thing on which to concentrate.
My mind was concentrating on getting out. I did not
feel that longer residence in mental hospital was likely to
help me to peace of mind. What it did do for me was to
make me more keen than ever to help in bettering conditions
for others. I certainly did learn that my Easter ecstasy
when I was ready to shout "no more disease, no more war"
was not yet opportune.


In June I was discharged.


Not until August did I venture again to church service.
Easter thoughts had given me enough perplexity, and I had
to find a safer footing for my life than the Christian enthusiasms
of Easter which allowed a creed of resurrection to be
overcome when a loved one reached that "land of pure
delight." I saw little consistency in joy at Easter and
mourning at death. Surely a funeral service of a Christian
should be like the graduation ceremony of a student, or the
marriage ceremony of a daughter or the farewell party to a
voyager. Even the death of the most dearly loved is
merely the freeing of the body contact so that the spirits
may become more truly one.


I certainly had faith in an all-controlling God. I had
found the need of it in the hell of mental hospital sickness.
I had an ever-growing realisation that the God of Love was
powerful through human agency and had a desperate need
of more willing agents.


I think it was during my convalescent months in
hospital that loneliness made me write my thoughts. I was
being treated, as I thought, like a child and so in my "play
way" writing I went back to alphabetical games. But my
most serious game was the making of friendship and

[p. <i>24</i>]

H, I, J, formed a trio with myself in the middle, "I"
being the first letter of my Christian name. HHitler,
JJesus, came on each side and gave me cause for thought
on the friendship of Hitler and of Jesus. I thought then
that Hitler had shown himself a good friend to German
youth. His "strength through joy" movement was one
stimulating to the sick youth of Germany, and one in which
we were glad to join by meeting the young German youth
clubs and sharing their camps and their outdoor rambles.
He stirred a defeated nation to life. Other considerations
made me view Hitler as a man made sick by conditions and
I was not sure how much the "dictatorship" of the victorious
allies had helped to the sickness. Not until many
years later did I make opportunity to read even the first
pages of Hitler's own story. There I found the great
difference between his childhood and mine. I had grown
up in a home in Britain as a tiny unit of a great empire. I
had learned to trust my parents and to find in everyone
whom I met a potential friend. Hitler had passed his childhood
in an atmosphere of resentment as one of a defeated
race. He lived as a stranger, resentful of his governors.
His life from childhood was built on the foundation of hate
and in him from his childhood was developing a great
desire for revenge.


Jesus of Nazareth was a child brought up in a homeruled
by love and belonged to a God-reverencing and selfrespecting
race of "chosen people." Christ and anti-Christ,
the child of love and the child of resentment, grew to manhood
as the man of peace and the man of war. My playway
companions had more than a mere "play" significance round
the "I" which, perhaps, symbolised also the mentally sick
"ego" of the thinker.

[p. <i>25</i>]

My realisation in 1939 was that we could not blame
Hitler. My realisation when, later, the Allies chose the
Nuremberg criminals to answer for the war charges against
their country was that I, for one, had no right to stand in
judgment on other individuals and lay blame on them.
When I heard that the reactions of these men under trial
was made subject of psychiatric research work, I felt that
I could not become a researcher watching with scientific
objectivity the reactions of others under unnatural strain.
If that was psychiatric research I must find my study in
other ways.


During these months, Easter to June, 1940, or in a
subsequent period in hospital, November to December, I had
an unexpected and amazing experience. I was aloneperhaps
by myself in a roomperhaps by myself in a ward
but very much alone. There seemed no escape from the
prison of locked doors and from the hell of confusing
thoughts where love had to fight its way through hate and
had to overcome. I was "at my wits' end." I knew there
was a God but I hardly seemed able to reach Him. I knew
there must be friends who believed as I did in love, truth,
and peace, but my own friends seemed long in coming to
my rescue. Then it was I had a sudden strange realisation
of my mother's presence. She had been dead for many
years. She was not there in the flesh. She was not there
in a voice. She was thereperhaps in my memoryperhaps
in something more present than memory. Her smile
was a sweet, amused smile. Her message was a sweet,
amused query: "What are you worrying about? I'm
sure I have told you often enough not to worry. There's
no need to worry." I could only smile back and agree
that she certainly had taught me, by church teaching, by
hopeful hymns, by her own unswerving faith, that even in
suffering all was well. I ceased to worry. I knew, for the

[p. <i>26</i>]

Reality of mental hospital and illness of myself and
others brought back the worry, but from that time through
many difficult days I knew that mother was smiling at me
and that all my friends in heaven were laughing at the
stupidity of the Christian who knew the power of Love and
yet continued to worry. That strange experience was
certainly a message from somewhere to help me to keep
sanity in that time of tribulation.


The memory of 1940 and the years which followed
still brings me tears at the stupidity of the nations who will
not accept the love of an all-controlling Power to save them
the worries of individual loneliness and individual frustrations.
Perhaps in Heaven there is weeping also.


The diary is destroyed in which there was evidence of
another surprising "shock." I was writing quietly at a
period in 1940 or 1941 when it seemed as if my hand was
suddenly controlled by something beyond my own conscious
will. From the "blue" came initials "J.K.B."
which I immediately recognised. They were those of a
teaching colleague who had suffered for some years from
T.B. During his time of enforced rest his already actively
seeking mind had become interested in Spiritualism. In a
correspondence carried on during these years, we, his
colleagues, had learned from him of his experiences in the
realm of the abnormal. I had been interested as a sceptic
but I could not help knowing from his sincerity that the
abnormal experiences were very real to him. His letters
made me more open-minded on the matter of Spiritualism,
though I realised that the spiritualists' way was not my way.
My own experiences of the strange "telepathy" between
abnormal minds in a mental ward had made me realise the
tremendous dangers of tampering thoughtlessly with those

[p. <i>27</i>]

My own aim in 1940 was to help in the alleviation of
the distresses of mental sickness and to get myself fit to work
in co-operation with others in that task.


In June, 1940, I was again discharged. I left mental
hospital for the second time without any help or information
about the physical facts of sex and without even the
experts' recommendation of reading matter. Personal
health problems had, indeed, taken second place and perhaps
my request had seemed to the doctor too casual to need a
studied reply. I gave up expecting information in the
place where I felt I had been right to expect it. It still
caused me embarrassment to think of asking for reading
matter in a shop. I still knew not in what shop to find
material suited to my needs. That two spells in mental
hospital had proved inadequate for easing the dispeace of
ignorance made me perhaps more sick than I had felt myself
to be in 1939. For the sick shyness of later years I feel much
blame is attached to these first mental specialists and perhaps
also to the obsessions in which Freudian psychology is,
or was apt to enwrap the specialist. I had perforce to seek
my information in the book-shop.


My desire and aim were still with me after a pleasant

[p. <i>28</i>]

At the end of the summer, I was weary of holiday and
by October and November was beginning to feel the boredom
and depression of frustration. I must have had much
time for thinking. In October I began to be troubled by a
blindness in one eye. I had, however, faith in the overruling
power of good. I had learned that in acceptance
one found compensations. I was therefore not unduly
perturbed at the new and unexpected physical disability. A
psychologist would perhaps take it as a symptom of illness
that I accepted so calmly the possible loss of sight. My own
interpretation of the calm attitude was my faith in a purpose
I could not discern. But although I had faith that all worked
together for good, I knew I also had to take responsibility
to help to bring about that good. I could not accept loss of
sight without making every reasonable endeavour to preserve
my sight. In doctors I had lost faith. A severe
mental conflict had to be met before I decided I must seek
medical aid. I was afraid the specialist would administer
wrong treatment. A fear of doctors had crept into my life
pattern. The fear on this occasion proved groundless.


I appreciated the straightforward help from the eye
specialist. He was not sure what was wrong but he thought
the sight would come back with time. I was relieved that
the doctors did not suggest treating the eye.


But the mental conflict and my visits to medical experts
caused an emotional agitation. Was it due to medical
consultations behind my back or a stirring up of memories
within myself? I do not know. The agitation proved
too much for the relatives at home. They knew my horror
of hospital restrictions. The family doctor prescribed drugs,

[p. <i>29</i>]

I have no detailed record in my memory or in books
of the months I spent there. I was now known as a well-meaning
patient but I do not think I was ever a settled one.

