TRANSCRIPT OF AUDIO FILE:
______________________________________________________________________________
<b>BEGIN TRANSCRIPT:</b>
THERAPIST:  Hi.  Come on in. 
CLIENT:  How are you?
THERAPIST:  Good thank you. 
CLIENT:  Well, just had an interesting conversation in the car with my girlfriend. 
THERAPIST:  Yeah.
CLIENT:  Just having a little bit difficulty.  Still feeling confused about the whole situation.  Um, like what's going on with us.  Actually, you'll meet her after this just to talk about it. 
THERAPIST:  Mm-hm.
CLIENT:  Um, she's just feeling really depressed, really stressed out.  Not feeling well.  And she pretty much told me how I, you know mentioned to you the fact that I don't want to just tell people what they want to hear and how you know I want to just do all that stuff and move on from that and figure out myself how to stop doing that. 
(00:01:03)
THERAPIST:  Mm-hm.
CLIENT:  Well she brought it up to me, you know as we're trying to workout our situation.  That am I really genuine in saying this?  Or am I just telling her what she wants to hear?  And I kind of ... it kind of made me think a little bit.  Like this is the stuff that I've got myself into.  And how do I ... I mean I don't know how many times I can tell her that what I said in the last couple of weeks has been genuine.  It's really how I feel. 
THERAPIST:  Mm-hm.
CLIENT:  But I guess the damage has been done so much before.  I don't know if I can ever get that trust back or what I can do to get that trust back even though I can tell her and you know she believes me, she doesn't  feel it. 
(00:02:03)
Which is troublesome a little bit.  I'm just, just doing a lot of thinking, you know sitting in the car after the conversation about that and how really truly messed up you know that it is.  And how serious my actions have taken me to a place where now I'm confused to a point where I'm like, "Ah."  Like I don't know what I can do.  Because before I just tried to talk my way out of it and makeup something.  But I don't want to do that.  I don't want to do that because then again I revert back to telling people what they want to hear. 
THERAPIST:  Mm.
CLIENT:  So we're kind of, you know dealing with the emotions of that conversation right now and you know how me myself can deal with it. 
(00:03:06)
THERAPIST:  What are those emotions?
CLIENT:  I kind of feel like, I've about like you know, I should have tried to gotten a hold of this earlier.  And it kind of makes me wonder if like what other relationships that I've had that are not intimate have, you know just thinking about like my personal relationships like friends and like family and stuff like that.  Like it really opened my eyes to like, you know, "What the hell am I ... what the hell did I do?"  How would people really perceive me?  You know?  It just really opened my eyes and dawned on me like that I do need to filter what I say.  I do need to process the information that, you know is talked to me about. 
(00:04:00)
But again the first thing I wanted to tell her was its fine but I bit my tongue.  Um, I told her that I didn't have an answer for some of the questions that she asked me.  And I didn't want to give her an answer.  And she asked, "Well I don't expect you to have it."  And then I felt the way to justify to myself because I just don't want to tell her what she wants to hear.  I do ... (long breath)  It is ... it is what it is.  I guess where I do, you know I do want to be with her but I'm having doubts now because I think that the damage that I did may not be reconcilable.  So just ... I'm just ... I'm really confused. 
(00:05:00)
THERAPIST:  And the damage of telling her what she wants to hear rather than the truth ...
CLIENT:  Before.
THERAPIST:  That damage?
CLIENT:  Yes.  Before because now when I do tell her the truth she doesn't believe me.  So, that's really eating away at me because that's how feel like, you know, "Well if this is the one (inaudible_00:05:20) you know then doing it, how are my other relationships?"  You know in general, how are they?
THERAPIST:  So you're feeling not trusting of that in your other relationships because you're not getting the feedback that she's giving you because you're in this, you know you're very close to each other.
CLIENT:  Mm-hm.
THERAPIST:  But you're sort of ... suspicious is not quite the right word, but like doubting.
CLIENT:  I'm doubting.  I'm doubting because I've never had anyone challenge me. 
THERAPIST:  Mm-hm.
CLIENT:  Like I said before she's never challenged me.  She's always just kind of been there and done her thing and supported me.  And now it's difficult because now I'm leaning on her for support.  And she's finally standing up and challenging and questioning me.  And it's starting to open up about how really of a person I was.  As to how a person I want to become. 
(00:06:13)
So I don't know, I just ... and it just opened up like the things that I did do back, you know I don't know if I mentioned about the house we almost purchased and ...
THERAPIST:  No. 
CLIENT:  We almost purchased a house together and this was when we were working together.  When our jobs were okay. 
THERAPIST:  Mm-hm.
CLIENT:  And you know that was a huge commitment and finally you know backed out of it because I just couldn't do it financially.  And I was getting a little overwhelmed with the stress of the paperwork, the amount of money I was, you know going to be putting down and going to be spending when I know I wasn't making what I wanted to be making.
THERAPIST:  So had you already found house or were you going through the paperwork ...?
CLIENT:  Oh we'd signed P and A ...
THERAPIST:  Oh wow.
CLIENT:  Pending an inspection.  The inspection found, you know major problem that we wanted fixed because they were just like, "Well, we'll drop the price."  And I'm like, "I don't want to drop the price because still don't have the money to fix the problem that needs to be fixed.  I need you to fix the problem. 
(00:07:24)
THERAPIST:  Mm-hm.
CLIENT:  So I guess then,  I guess kind of showed her, you know a lot of my true colors because I was back and forth, left/right, up/down, sideways.  I was just all over the place.  Because when I do get overwhelmed and over stressed and very anxious about decisions, big decisions, I kind of like I mentioned before, I black out.  I'm there saying answers, making decisions, I don't remember the content of what was being talked about.  What was going on.  Because this was part of when we first decided to move in with each other.  And I said, "Well I want to move into a house."  And then the next thing you know from our conversations, I don't remember them, (Chuckle) we almost bought a house. 
(00:08:13)
THERAPIST:  Mm-hm.
CLIENT:  So it kind of ... I mean it just goes from conversation to the extreme and then from the extreme like, "Oh, shit."  Like I finally realize what I'm doing like when it's happening.  As opposed to sitting down, processing the information as it comes to me.  I make my reactionary decision, go with my reactionary decisions and I'm like, "Oh, oh.  What the hell am I going to do now?"  Like we were a signature away from buying the house, it's just like,  "What the hell am I doing?"  And then after I process the information I finally realize that, you know what was going on.  And you know this is what I want to become, is I want to process this information first before I make my decisions.  And then go into dealing with the consequences after.
(00:09:14)
THERAPIST:  So do you feel like if you were like sort of more thoughtful at the beginning of the process you wouldn't have even like looked at houses and so forth?
CLIENT:  Mm-hm.  I would have explored other options before.  And then I wouldn't have ... because she was just like, "What we could do, we could look for condos and stuff like that."  And she actually said we could look for apartments through a realtor.  And I was adamant, I had my decision made that I only wanted to buy a house.  And you know I was kind of sticking to that decision.
THERAPIST:  Mm-hm.
CLIENT:  Mainly because it's a way of deflecting you know that I wasn't ready to take the next step right away.  I was still, you know trying to figure out what I wanted to do with my career and go from there. 
THERAPIST:  Mm-hm.
CLIENT:  But she said, "Okay."  And then, you know I don't remember if was me or her that made the suggestion about maybe purchasing a home.  And then all of a sudden I get into that and I just start telling her things and one thing led to another and then there's another thing that's against me.
(00:10:19)
THERAPIST:  Mm-hm.
CLIENT:  Is, you know I told her what she wanted to hear.  And it just really, you know at the time I was just like, "Whatever I'll get over it and she'll get over it."  But you know now that what we're going through now it's been you know almost a month.  And it's just really difficult because we're actually starting to communicate a lot better than we did.
THERAPIST:  Mm-hm.
CLIENT:  Where we're actually telling each other like what's going on, how we feel.  Um, just being honest with each other.  And I think, you know that's what I was looking for the whole time and I wasn't getting it.  And now that I'm getting it it's different.
(00:11:07)
Because this is not the woman I'm used to.  I'm used to her 'yuping' me saying "Yes" doing all the stuff, adjusting her life to fit mine needs.  And never really putting her needs before my needs.  And now that it's happening and now that, you know I've been talking about it and been processing more, I'm starting to slowly understand why. 
THERAPIST:  Why she's doing what she's doing or why you're doing what you're doing?
CLIENT:  No.  Why I'm doing ... why I did what I was doing.
THERAPIST:  Mm-hm.
CLIENT:  Because now, again after it's already happened and now it's brought to my attention and I can dwell on it and think about everything that's happened, I can now process you know, you know what was going on.
THERAPIST:  Mm-hm.
(00:12:06)
CLIENT:  And how it was kind of just a vicious cycle just to ... I guess in a way I do that because I am again, avoiding things.  Where if it comes up and it needs to be addressed I just try to deflect it. 
THERAPIST:  Mm-hm.
CLIENT:  Especially when it comes to like major decisions.  I guess I'm just ... I mean even when I was you know practicing (inaudible_00:12:32)  you know I couldn't really make a decision on my own.  I asked any and everybody in my family, ask her.  I still (inaudible_00:12:42).
THERAPIST:  Mm-hm.
CLIENT:  And then the decision was ultimately made for me.  But I have a problem making my own major decisions. 
THERAPIST:  Mm-hm.
CLIENT:  I can make the little ones.  Like where I want to work, what I want to do, you know right now.  But as far as like getting up and moving and you know, getting up and purchasing a house or purchasing, you know anything that's substantial amount of money ...
(00:13:12)
THERAPIST:  Mm-hm.
CLIENT:  Or something that's substantially life changing ...
THERAPIST:  Mm-hm.
CLIENT:  I have ... I'm not ... I can't do it. 
THERAPIST:  So like with the house.  Was it that you felt that you didn't want to make the financial commitment or you didn't want to make a commitment to your girlfriend or both?
CLIENT:  To be honest, I'm very financially driven.  I grew up in a family where money was you know huge.  I kind of feel in my culture just seeing, you know my dads successful, all my uncles are successful.  That as being a male in my family you have to be able to provide for your family.  And I guess it's not true, but I put that heavily on my plate.  Where if not making so much money where I can, you know live comfortably and you know do things, that I'm a failure.  And that you know she's not worthy enough to have because I'm not, you know a superior male that she's looking for. 
THERAPIST:  Mm.
(00:14:13)
CLIENT:  By no means is that accurate by, you know what's going on but that's just how I ... that's the pressure that I put on myself.  Growing up I've always worked three, two-three jobs, four jobs if I had too.  I've always been a going person.  I've always been a hustler.  And I guess that's kind of in my nature, it's you know, it's what I've, you know I know what I'm familiar with. 
THERAPIST:  Mm-hm.
CLIENT:  Is I never kind of put time for myself to enjoy or time for other people or time for me to enjoy with other people. 
THERAPIST:  Mm-hm.
CLIENT:  I've always been about me.  Whether it's working three jobs, two jobs, whatever to coaching hockey, doing all this other stuff.  I've never actually put other people ahead of me.
(00:15:08)
THERAPIST:  Mm.
CLIENT:  And I guess, you know (sigh)  comes down to the major decision about what I want  in life.  Do I want to be with her?  Yes.  But I'm having troubles making that major decision.
THERAPIST:  Mm-hm.
CLIENT:  So I kind of feel like I'm just in this cycle, circle.  You know every time I feel like I'm going on and moving on to the next level it's just like, "Oh."  It's reverting back to the old ways.
THERAPIST:  Mm-hm.
CLIENT:  And I'm just really confused.
THERAPIST:  Mm-hm.
CLIENT:  Because you know it's just I don't know why I think the way I think.  I don't know why stuff happens the way it happens.
THERAPIST:  You've referred a bunch of times the few meanings to your culture.  What are you?
CLIENT:  I'm Middle Eastern.  So I'm from, you know Lebanon area.
THERAPIST:  No.  I didn't know that.
CLIENT:  Yup.  I'm Lebanese and (inaudible_00:16:06) so.  There's a lot of stress on the males to succeed.  Back in the old country the males are the providers for the family and the woman are the ones that stay home and provide for the family. 
(00:16:22)
THERAPIST:  Mm-hm.
CLIENT:  The children, the household, all of that stuff.  So if you and this is just me.  In my eyes if you as the male can't provide for your family with a home, with food, with all that stuff for your wife, your child, you know that's just being a failure.  And I guess that really stresses me out right now.  Because I am in the middle of a graduate program.  I am in the middle of doing my, you know internship hours.  But I feel I'm slowly losing motivation because it's only so often, you know you can get up and go to work everyday but you're not getting anything for it. 
(00:17:06)
I guess I'm very money driven.  My time is money.  You want to pay me I'll do whatever you want.  But if there's no money involved I'm driven but not driven like I want to be. 
THERAPIST:  So who came over on your family's side, like ...?
CLIENT:  Both my mom's parents were from overseas.  My dad's grandparents were from overseas.  But his parents were born in America. 
THERAPIST:  Mm-hm.
CLIENT:  So my mother is more right off the boat, her family was close to it.  Because both her parents came from overseas.
THERAPIST:  Where?  Where, Lebanon?
CLIENT:  My grandmother was from Syria and my grandfather on my mother's side, this is my mother's side was from Lebanon.
THERAPIST:  Mm-hm.
CLIENT:  So they both came over from Syria and Lebanon, yeah. 
THERAPIST:  And so your dad's great grandparents ...
CLIENT:  My dad's grandparents or my great grandparents.
THERAPIST:  Right, right, right you great grandparents.
CLIENT:  Yup.  Came over from Lebanon.
THERAPIST:  And do they have a lot of Lebanese and Syrian friends, are they very much part of the community or ?
CLIENT:  In this (inaudible_00:18:10) church in the religious community.  We are Lebanese Orthodox.  So we do, you know my parents usually go to church and they do have a lot of church friends.  My parents were heavily involved with the church and all the like teen groups growing up with the church.  That's actually how they met was through the church.
THERAPIST:  Mm-hm.
CLIENT:  Me, I'm not so much church oriented.  I mean I'll go here and there.  I'll usually go twice a year, Christmas and I'll go on Easter.  But other than that I don't make it a regular habit to go to church on Sundays. 
THERAPIST:  Mm-hm.
CLIENT:  Even though I'd like to, I just don't have the motivation.  I don't know why.  I'd like to.  But I do know that when I have children every Sunday I want my children going to church.  Because I guess it was how I was brought up, is every Sunday when I was younger, you know my dad and my mom brought us to church every Sunday.  It was just like ... it's what we did.
(00:19:13)
THERAPIST:  Mm-hm.
CLIENT:  And I see that in the church all the Arab communities, you know they either own their own business or they are high successful, you know men in the community.  And being able to provide for their families.  A lot of them have wives that work, a lot of them don't, I don't know.  But, you know it's just being around that culture and just seeing, you know how they live, how you know how good they are to their families.  How if their children need anything like the parents are always the ones telling, "Don't worry about it."  It's their feeling.  So I guess I kind of put that stress on me too because ... excuse me.  Thinking about all my future, you know if I do decide to have children, which I do want, you know how am I going to provide for them the way my parents provided for me? 
THERAPIST:  Mm-hm.
CLIENT:  Um, I guess that freaks me out a lot.  It's just because and going on the notion from the older people is you try to give your kids a better life than what your parents gave you.  But my parents gave me such a good life, I feel my expectations are a lot higher.  And it's starting to overwhelm me and I don't even have kids.
(00:20:36)
CLIENT:  So just that part alone is overwhelming and it's not even in my life here and now.  And I don't know why I do that.  I don't know why I do that.  I tell myself it's okay.  I tell myself it's fine.  You're going to be fine, you know that's why you're in school.  If it's not happening now I can't, I can't process it. 
THERAPIST:  You're really worried.
CLIENT:  I'm very worried.  Not really, very worried.
THERAPIST:  Very worried.
CLIENT:  I'm very worried about how I'm going to support, you know what I want.  Because my, my needs and wants are two totally, you know ... I need to get a lot of money but I want a big family.  I want to live in a decent sized house.  I want, you know all the new gadgets and stuff like that because that's what I see goes on in my family now. 
(00:21:31:00)
But what I need to get those it's just, it's overwhelming.  And my need to please my girlfriend when she needs my support, when she just needs my company and my wants to coach and to you know be involved in extra activities with my community and with my students ... it's not a balancing act.  And I guess I'm kind of lost on how I can balance that. 
(00:22:02)
THERAPIST:  Mm.
CLIENT:  Um, it's just really difficult because I do ... and even though it doesn't bother me where I lose sleep over it, when I think about it I get very anxious.  And it's just something I can't process.  I always ... and this where again comes the avoidance.  Or I'm just like, " Oh yeah, that sounds great.  We'll do this.  We'll do that."  You know telling her, you know we've had the conversation with my girlfriend and I about how we want to get into a house, how we want to ... I want to have a big family.  I want this, I want that.  And me telling her that and then it's just not happening, you know soon enough.  It's really bothersome to me, you know because I know she wants it.  I know she wants it relatively soon.  She's made that clear to me.
THERAPIST:  How old is she?
CLIENT:  She's twenty-eight.
THERAPIST:  Mm-hm.
(00:23:02)
CLIENT:  So she's the same age as me a couple of months younger.  But again her needs and wants are different than mine.  And I guess the lack of communication again on our part has prevented us from moving forward.  Because I'm also freaking out too about, you know paying for an engagement ring.  Paying for a wedding.  Paying for all this other stuff.  It just really overwhelms me. 
THERAPIST:  Well it's not only a practical issue, it's about your identity ...
CLIENT:  Yes.
THERAPIST:  Your aspirations.  It's such a deeply rooted psychological issue.
CLIENT:  Yes.
THERAPIST:  Your comparison to the male figures in your life and how you meet expectations or fall short.
CLIENT:  Mm-hm.  Exactly.  And that's how I picture myself as a failure.  I do.  I picture myself ... and it's not fair because I haven't started my career yet.  I haven't lived as long as the people that I'm judging myself to.  I haven't had success like they've had success.  My opportunity hasn't come.  I know this is my now.  But in the back of my mind and all that, you know where I store it, I haven't.  I'm a failure and I don't know why.  I mean I can tell myself aloud like this, out loud that I'm fine, everything I'm doing has a purpose and that's fine.  But in the back of my head I'm worried about it.  I'm not fine.  I'm not, you know I don't know what's going on.  And everything I see it's costs going up, up, up.  And I see me not making anything.  Like if feel like I'm getting so far behind that I can't catch up. 
(00:24:56)
But in reality I'm not far behind.  I don't have any debt.  The only debt I have is, you know college debt.  That's it, that's the only debt I have.  But I still feel that I'm not doing anything to help myself climb the rankings.  I kind of feel like I'm just, you know at a wall and I can't figure out a way to climb it and move forward.  It's just really difficult.  And no matter how much I tell myself like this that it's fine or if I talk to people, my brothers, my sisters talk to them about it how everything's fine, I'm going to be all right, you know I don't need to worry about why am I putting this stress on me?  You know, when we talk about it and I'm really (inaudible_00:25:43) in here, I'm not.  I'm not.  You know it all reverts back to (sigh) you know panic mode.  And I don't know why, and people say, you know you shouldn't stress about money.  But I don't know why.  Money to me is a very sensitive subject.
(00:26:03)
THERAPIST:  Was it discussed a lot in your family?
CLIENT:  Status was.  Competition.  New gadgets, televisions, computers.  I needed something, I got it. 
THERAPIST:  By your dad, by your mom?
CLIENT:  Dad.  Dad and mom.  It was mutual.  Um, they tried to cut that out but in reality like they never did.
THERAPIST:  So they were very aware of their status in comparison to their friends and family?
CLIENT:  Well it wasn't that.  It was more like a competition between my dad and my dad's sister.  Where like they have a new gaming system that came out, like if we didn't have it and my cousins got it, they'd get it for us.  It was just like trying to match.
THERAPIST:  Mm-hm.
CLIENT:  You know and you know even, you know with the gadgets.  Just like, "I got this TV.  You know we're going to have everyone over my house for the Super Bowl because I have the, you know the (inaudible_00:27:00) TV or whatever. 
THERAPIST:  Mm-hm.
(0027:03)
CLIENT:  You know that's the way it was.  It's was like you'd go to whoever had the big screen TV.  I mean, you know or like Christmas time or whatever it's like, "Well what game am I going to get now?"  You know in a way its ... in a way I was kind of ... and this is what I fear is I was brought up in such a way where I was ... I never really was told no.  Anything I wanted I got.  And my girlfriend had those limitations where her parents couldn't do it financially.  And she was told no.  And it was difficult but she knows how to deal with it.  And now when I'm told no I freak out.  You know I freak out, I 'm just like, "All right.  I don't know how I'm going to pay this.  I got this amount of money.  Do I go to my parents and ask them for some money because I know that I'll get it?"  But that temptation to stay away from them, you know is hard. 
THERAPIST:  Mm-hm.
(00:28:08)
CLIENT:  Because it is something that I want.  But do I need it?  No.  But I want it and I know I can get it.  So I guess that's where, you know it comes into my, you know, me being me.  Like I want to be independent in a way, but in a way I can't really be independent because if I really do want something I can go to my parents and I know I'll have it.  Which kind of brings me to the imbalance again because that was a huge, you know disagreement that me and my girlfriend had.  Was she keeps telling me to cut the cord with them.  Move on.  Be my own person.  Live my own life.  Make my own decisions.  (Chuckle)  You know?
THERAPIST:  How do you feel ... I mean ... well so you live with them and do they pay for ... I guess you don't pay them rent, right?
CLIENT:  I don't pay rent but I went from paying electric, cable, food, you know cell phone, to now I only pay for nothing.  (Chuckle) 
(00:29:13)
THERAPIST:  And so what, she was also saying not only financially but  do ...
CLIENT:  Just as a person.
THERAPIST:  In terms of decisions, like feeling like they're making ... you're not making your own decisions?
CLIENT:  Yeah.
THERAPIST:  What kind of decisions do you really need (inaudible_00:29:26)?
CLIENT:  Um, it's not like, when I was buying a car.  It was all like when I bought my first car.  You know I just talked about stuff and the next thing you know my dad was like, "Oh I got this car for you."  "Okay."  Like this is what I went and did.
THERAPIST:  So he bought it for you.
CLIENT:  He didn't buy it for me, but he picked it out.
THERAPIST:  But he picked it out.
CLIENT:  Um, going to back to the house.  My dad's a home inspector.  Knows the housing market really well.  Telling me I'm getting a steal on the house how can I leave it on the ground.  "You know, if you need money I'll pay for it and I'll fix it."  You know?  Stuff like that.  It's just like I want to be independent and I want to do my own but I can't do it if you're just throwing money at me and saying, "Okay.  Here's the problem it's all fixed." 
THERAPIST:  But the temptation is so big.
CLIENT:  It's huge.  The temptation is huge.  I mean even now before I go out anywhere my mother ask me, "You need money?"  "Do you need money?"  Sometimes I take it.  But a lot of times I'm like, "No, I have money."
(00:30:37)
THERAPIST:  Do you think they have a hard time watching you and your siblings grow up?
CLIENT:  What do you mean?
THERAPIST:  Well like, just like that also, that behavior encourages you to stay in it and maybe not intentionally.  So I'm just wondering if in part they're having a hard time seeing you guys as adults. 
CLIENT:  My mother definitely.  Absolutely, one hundred percent my mother does.  She, when all four of us were in college at the same time my parents had a hard time.  Because they were used to people being around.  People you know coming in and out of their house all the time and people hanging out.  To having a huge gigantic house with just the two of them.
 (00:31:20)
THERAPIST:  Mm-hm.
CLIENT:  And I kind of think that aloneness my mother doesn't like.  I mean my parents are almost 70-years-old, so I think having us around kind of makes them feel younger. 
THERAPIST:  How ... are they seventy or?
CLIENT:  Sixty-five. 
THERAPIST:  Okay.  I was just sort of doing the math in terms of their age.
CLIENT:  Yeah.  Yeah.  My parents had us late. 
THERAPIST:  Did they meet late or?
CLIENT:  They've known each other for a while but they didn't start dating for a little bit. 
THERAPIST:  Because like that would make them in their late 30's when they had you.
CLIENT:  Yeah.  My mother was 30 when she had my older brother and they were 36 when then had my younger brother. 
THERAPIST:  Mm-hm.
CLIENT:  Who's the last of four.  She had four kids in six years.
THERAPIST:  Mm-hm.
(00:32:04)
CLIENT:  So, yeah.  They were really late when they had us.  So again that's what ... you know I was growing up as ... like well you know my girlfriend talks about it, she wants a kid by thirty.  She wants to be married by thirty and then I see my parents who got married, you know mid thirties.  Well not mid-thirties but like thirty.  And did all their stuff then.  And to me that's not a problem but also to me it's like my dad had time to save money and do all this stuff.  I mean I still get frustrated when he tells me he bought his first house for 40 thousand dollars.  I said, "Yeah.  When was that?"  He said, "1976."  I go, "Well things change."  Believe me if I could buy a house for 40 thousand dollars, I would.  But it frustrates me too, because you know what he did he made a ton of money for back in when he was doing it.  He made a lot of money.  He was able to save a lot of money.  Me, you know I'm not making a lot of money.  I'm not able to save a lot of money.  And that bothers me.  Because they just talk about, you know ...  well here's a good example.  My dad talks about how he used to work three jobs and he was able to save like 40 thousand dollars in one year.  Well here I am working three jobs and I'm barely able to save 15 thousand a year. 
(00:33:36)
Like that frustrates me.  (sigh)  Because I don't know what you were doing back in the day, but I don't know how you were able to save that much money and I couldn't, you know?  It's just, it's frustrating.  Because I feel like I'm putting so much time and effort and I'm not going anywhere.  So ...
THERAPIST:  Like you're spinning your wheels?
CLIENT:  Yeah.  I feel like the hamster in the cage just running on the wheel. 
THERAPIST:  Do you, do you think you're siblings share some of this like sort of like feeling like a failure, being very sort of ...
CLIENT:  I know my older brother does.  My older brother feels the same way.  He's the same exact thing as me.  It's like he's working, you know two jobs but he feels can't save enough to get out.
(00:34:27)
THERAPIST:  Mm.
CLIENT:  He feels he can't save enough to get out and it's frustrating beyond being frustrated.  Just because you want to take that next step.  You talk yourself into it, like, "I'm ready.  I'm ready.  I'm ready."  And then, boom you just get sucked back.  For me when I moved out I was fine.  I had no problems.  There were a lot of things I missed about my family.  You know, not seeing them and interacting everyday.  But I was fine.  The key is to go out and do it.  If I do stuff without my family's input, I'm fine.  Like if I made my ... I made my mind set that I was moving in with her.  Didn't even consult my family because I knew my mother would do everything in her power to keep me there. 
(00:35:20)
THERAPIST:  Why?
CLIENT:  I don't know.  Because she doesn't want us going anywhere.  Again I think she's she has a hard time with us growing up and becoming adults and moving away from her. 
THERAPIST:  Do you have a theory as to why?  Like is she afraid of being lonely?  Is she ...?
CLIENT:  Could be.  It could be.  It could also be the fact that, you know she's getting older and she does have that fear of being alone and you know and not doing anything and you know just letting us go because, you know she does mention that she does miss when we were younger.  So I guess that, you know she just hasn't come to the reality that we aren't babies anymore.  We're adults. 
THERAPIST:  Mm-hm.
(00:36:12)
CLIENT:  And this is, you know the life cycle is you have children, they grow up, they have children.  They grow.  You know, I think it's just ... and it's really difficult for me to make my decisions because in the background she's, you know slowly like, "Well I don't want you to go and do all this."  I mean it's like I went to college and she cried.  I'm like, "I'm only going twenty minutes away."  You know, I moved out, moved in with my girlfriend.  She cried.  It's like, "Why you got to do that?"  Why can't you just let me be happy?  You know like this is a success story that your son is moving out, he's moving in, he's getting on with his life.  Why can't you just be happy with that?  And it is frustrating.  It's frustrating because then I kind of feel the guilt.  I feel the disappointment and part of me, again wants to please everybody.
(00:37:15)
And if I don't please everybody I feel not good.  I don't feel good.  You know I feel again that sense of failure.  Because I do want to please everybody and do all of that stuff.  But if it doesn't work out the way it works out ...you know I consider myself a failure.  And again, you know now that I'm talking about this I bring up the fact about how ... you know how I mentioned to earlier how I, you know go into conversations and I kind of have a plan on how I want them to go? 
THERAPIST:  Mm-hm.
CLIENT:  Well I guess I kind of had a plan on how I wanted my life to go and how I wanted it to turn out.  (Chuckle)  And it's not the way I wanted it.  Because I wanted to get married around, you know thirty, between thirty and thirty-five and I wanted a big family.  But I didn't care when I had them.  You know?  I, you know in my twenties I never, you know thought I'd find the girl like my girlfriend.  I never thought, you know I'd fall in love with her, but I did. 
(00:38:35)
THERAPIST:  Mm-hm.
CLIENT:  And I just didn't think everything would move so fast.  I kind of in the back of mind kept thinking I had time, I had time, I had time.  (Laughter)  Before I thought I had time the more time was running out.
THERAPIST:  It sounds like your mom. 
CLIENT:  Yes. 
THERAPIST:  And time is moving and it feels like why is it moving so fast?
CLIENT:  I guess you're right.  I never thought of it like that.  But yes.  I guess you're right it is.  It's moving at a pace that I'm just not comfortable with.  But I can't control it.  And I guess this is my way of what I did a couple of weeks ago was my way of avoiding it.  Is to try and put the brakes on a little bit and slows things down.
(00:39:27)
THERAPIST:  Mm-hm.
CLIENT:  But in a sense I just didn't want to hear it.  Because I was doing what was right for me, but not the other person or the other people involved.  It's just ... again it comes back to me just doing things and then don't, "What the hell did I just do?"  And, "Why did I do that?"  And then the more I think about it now, the more I can reflect on, you know, "Why did I do it that way?  Why don't I do it this way?  What could I have done better?"  You know why don't I know to do this before hand?  What made this happen.  So ...
THERAPIST:  When you talk about putting the brakes on a few weeks ago and I image you're referring to when you moved out.
CLIENT:  Yes.
THERAPIST:  What do you think you're putting the brakes ... like what happens if you don't put the brakes on?  Where are you going?
CLIENT:  I don't know.  I didn't think of that.
(00:40:32)
CLIENT:  I didn't think because my girlfriend and she says she was joking, but to me I don't know.  Is she gave me an ultimatum.  I mean she gave me an ultimatum about moving in with her.  She goes, "If you don't want to move in with me our relationship is over."  I did that to please her.  And I also did it because I wanted to try it.  I wanted to see if I could live with her, you know see if we could co-exist.  It's fine.  I don't know if it was this year, before I moved in or after I ... I think it was after I moved in like (inaudible_00:41:07).  You know it was another ultimatum, like you got till thirty, you know for us to be married, have a house, have our first kid on the way.
(00:41:18)
THERAPIST:  Did that feel good?
CLIENT:  No.  (sigh)  Again, major decisions popped into my head.  She said, you know by the time if I'm thirty and I don't have this I may have to leave you.  In my mind I was kind of waiting for the clock to run out.  I really was.  I was going to, you know ... and then again I was going to wait for the clock to run out and just see if she actually would leave me or not.  But then, you know our relationship just started going downhill and spiraling downhill.  I was just really getting aggravated with her and just, you know I just needed a break.  And that was it.  And then I told her after our break, like you know what was really eating at me and why I think our relationship was going downhill.  You know it was the major decisions where I'm going to be twenty-nine in March.  You know, you want all this stuff at thirty.  I go that's a year and a half.  And I'm paying the king beyond paying the king.  I may not show it but inside like my anxiousness is out of control, my hearts racing, my minds going, I'm really freaking out. 
(00:42:37)
THERAPIST:  Mm-hm.
CLIENT:  And it's just ... I don't know why.  Instead of opening up and telling how I felt I just kept it inside.  And I just kept yupping at her and telling her what she wanted to hear.  Feeding her the garbage.  But not knowing what I know now is that the garbage was getting me in trouble.  You know?  It was getting me in trouble because I was just putting more garbage on top of the other garbage that wasn't clean.  It wasn't moved out yet.  So you know and then today with the conversation I realized like what I was doing.  I was masking, you know what was really bothering me.  And avoiding it. 
(00:43:25)
CLIENT:  Um, yeah.  And it is tough because like I said I don't have the support from home to make a decision.  Decisions were always made for me and if I couldn't make a decision there was always the temptation that whatever I wanted was there. 
THERAPIST:  Well it seems like its even more than lack of support.  It's that there is an encouragement to stay at home. 
CLIENT:  Oh yeah.  There's a huge encouragement.
THERAPIST:  Where does your sister live?
CLIENT:  She lives out in Bristol.  She got transferred out there for work. 
(00:44:00)
THERAPIST:  So it's you and your two brothers, you live at home and then your sister lives elsewhere. 
CLIENT:  Yeah.  But my sister just had to move back for medical reasons.
THERAPIST:  What's wrong with her?
CLIENT:  She's having real depression issues.  She's on new medication and she's just not doing well.  She kind of had to take medical leave from work.  Just because she had a lot of stress going on with her life, with her job situation, how she was being treated.  Just a lot of shit going on.  And I guess that's part of it too was I didn't know it at the time but when I moved home.  But that's you know kind of what it is.  I mean I don't know if I mentioned that my dad's going through chemotherapy.
THERAPIST:  No.
CLIENT:  My dad's going through chemotherapy.  He's had, you know cancer for the last two years, three years. 
THERAPIST:  What kind of cancer?
CLIENT:  He has Leukemia.  It's not deadly.  It's curable.  I mean not curable but it not you know something that will kill him. 
THERAPIST:  Mm-hm.
CLIENT:  It's just got to be monitored closely and he's just, you know he's just constantly struggling.  You know he goes to chemotherapy, you know once every month and you know I was the one who was bringing him to all of his appointments and doing all of this stuff. 
THERAPIST:  Mm-hm.
(00:45:18)
CLIENT:  And then part of me when I move out, you know was sad that, you know I was like I wasn't going to be there for my parents to take them where they needed and all of this stuff and to help them out because my mother, again, was crying to me when I moved out about who's going to take my dad to the (inaudible_00:45:37) you know ...
THERAPIST:  She doesn't drive?
CLIENT:  She does.  But ...
THERAPIST:  It was not a practical plea, it was more ...
CLIENT:  Well it's not practical but my mother can't drive at night.  She can't see. 
THERAPIST:  Does he have his treatments at night?
CLIENT:  He has his treatments all day.  But his treatments were like twelve-hour sessions. 
THERAPIST:  Oh.
CLIENT:  Twelve sometimes thirteen, fourteen hour sessions.  Because it was, it was very complicated.  Very long day.  So they would be getting ... I mean I would drop them off at the hospital at 6 a.m. and sometimes I would pick them up till like 7 or 8 at night.
THERAPIST:  Geez.
CLIENT:  Yeah.  So I mean that's the problem.  And then if he had any complications ... that was, you know that was with complications.  Good days he would be out like four o'clock, five o'clock.  Or depending on the complications, the medicine, you know he could have been in there for extended period of time.  So ...
THERAPIST:  You know.  I just realized, we're actually out of time for today.
CLIENT:  Okay.
THERAPIST:  But, yeah I didn't know that about your dad.
CLIENT:  Oh yeah, well. 
THERAPIST:  So I will see you next week.
CLIENT:  Okay.
THERAPIST:  Okay.
CLIENT:  On the schedule for I know Christmas is ...
THERAPIST:  Yeah.  I was going to ... yeah.  I mean, so I'm not here the 26th.  I am here the Monday after New Years.
CLIENT:  That's what I was going to say because I'm not available the 26th either.
THERAPIST:  Yeah.
CLIENT:  So that ...
 
THERAPIST:  So I'm here the Monday after New Years.  And also if you, I mean if you did want to try to meet that week I'd be happy to see you.
CLIENT:  No.  That's, that's, that's perfectly fine.  I was going to suggest the same thing that you take the 26th off.
THERAPIST:  Okay.
CLIENT:  And then just resume on the 2nd.
THERAPIST:  Okay.
CLIENT:  And billing.  I could do every two weeks if that works?
THERAPIST:  Sure.
CLIENT:  Like two hundred.  So like when we meet the second and the then the ninth and then I'll have a check for two hundred on the ...
THERAPIST:  That's fine.  That's fine, yeah.
CLIENT:  On the ninth.  Does that work for you?
THERAPIST:  Perfect.
CLIENT:  Okay.  That would just be easier for me. 
THERAPIST:  That's fine.  Thank you so much.
CLIENT:  Thank you.
THERAPIST:  So I will ... so yeah next week regular time.
CLIENT:  Next week regular time.
THERAPIST:  Okay.
CLIENT:  All right.  Thank you Dr. Feldman.
THERAPIST:  Absolutely.  See you next week.  Take care.
CLIENT:  Yup.
<b>END TRANSCRIPT</b>
