TRANSCRIPT OF AUDIO FILE:
______________________________________________________________________________
BEGIN TRANSCRIPT:
This is Interview 5, December 1, Side 1, Track 1
PATIENT: Hello. I was able during the week, in fact almost right after I left here last week, to put some things together, which kind of grew out of what we've been talking about. And, I don't know, it's...the relationship between those two things...I think there's really a kind of a correlation. We were talking about...when we got to the end last week, about the idea of meeting needs and my feeling that maybe I couldn't and that I just withdrew from it.
COUNSELOR: That you'd be overwhelmed.
PATIENT: Yeah. And I talked before about the feelings of...several feelings...one about having transient kind of relationships with people as opposed to long...
COUNSELOR: Meaningful...
PATIENT: Well, meaningful in the short term, rather than long term. And also, I talked about that girl.
COUNSELOR: Yes.
PATIENT: And I couldn't figure out exactly what the feeling was that she provoked in me or why. And it seemed to me to have really a direct correlation there...the idea that I felt I was perceiving this girl. And the more I thought about it, the more it really seemed that I was perceiving this girl and as a person who didn't make demands...emotional demands. [0:02:10]
COUNSELOR: Do you mean she was the kind of person who would...it just wouldn't arise where you would have those demands on you and they would be throwing your (inaudible 0:02:20)
PATIENT: Well, in fantasy. I mean, in reality, I'd-
COUNSELOR: You'd be free.
PATIENT: It'd be different.
COUNSELOR: Yeah, but I mean in a fantasy kind of way. Like, they wouldn't be there. There would be a freedom.
PATIENT: Yeah. There is no-
COUNSELOR: I just want to see if-
(tape stops 0:02:33 - 0:02:43)
PATIENT: It would...it's as if there would be no...I don't know...kind of like the relationship would exist with you both meeting each other's needs on a superficial level, but no demands being placed on the other person to meet emotional needs in a really deep kind of way. And it's just kind of...
COUNSELOR: I'm not sure what fell together. It's like, oh, is that what she held up for you in a way?
PATIENT: Yeah. I think she kind of symbolized that. I had generalized it and talked about this girl as a specific, but kind of characterizing a group of people or a certain kind of thing. And it has meaning for me because I was worried about those feelings. I was scared of those feelings because I didn't understand them. Because they weren't...they didn't seem appropriate to anything and I didn't know what to do with them. And it was kind of like I felt very anxious about it.
COUNSELOR: Like when you had those feelings of...that she stirred up something in you and some kind of longing.
PATIENT: Yeah. But I wasn't sure what it was about. Now I think there's...that's another thing that still exists...a certain kind of longing. But now, I'm not sure if I'm longing for like a certain kind of person that she somehow represents or a certain kind of situation where for example, when I was 15 or 16 and we'll say, "went" with a girl, you met each other's emotional needs, but only in a very superficial kind of way. There wasn't...there...generally, I didn't feel the serious danger of kind of like commitment because I was 16. [0:04:51]
COUNSELOR: Yeah, it's kind of like right now, you really...you feel like you made that commitment.
PATIENT: Well, yeah, I have.
COUNSELOR: And feel that sense of danger or something.
PATIENT: Yeah. I think I've been feeling a sense of danger all along. So it was...I don't know. I felt much better after just realizing that because you see, it's not that I'm afraid of feeling that, but I'd like to know what in the hell it is I'm feeling. Why? And I think that that's the correlation. I really do. The same correlation was...well, I think it would have the same meaning about the idea of having kind of short-term and intensive relationships with people because if they're short-term, when you really come down to it, they can be...they're not that intensive. They just aren't. 
COUNSELOR: Yeah. It's like I really sense in a way you want relationships that feel good emotionally, but that don't have that intensity of someone sharing with you their...really their sorrows in that long-term type of way. [0:06:12]
PATIENT: Yeah, I think so. 
COUNSELOR: You look like it disturbed you.
PATIENT: No, it was...yeah, I'm not disturbed, but something I guess I probably had to evaluate.
COUNSELOR: What do you mean you had to evaluate?
PATIENT: Well, because there...I think there are just kind of like different ways I could look at it. I think the reason I said yes, let me say that was because I would imagine what I want. I think what I want is to be happy. And I feel...I guess I feel like if they're sharing their troubles with me, I'm not going to be happy over a long-term thing. But it depends on how much that kind of predominates in my relationship. If there are kind of like the concomitant rewards for that, then I...
COUNSELOR: Yeah, but I kind of sense that with your...at least with your wife, you don't sense those kind of rewards or how there could be rewards that involve her sorrows she's throwing you that way, when she said that she was suicidal...feeling suicidal. [0:08:01]
PATIENT: Yeah. 
COUNSELOR: It just felt like something you wanted to stay clear of.
PATIENT: Yes and no. I wanted to stay clear of it as a person involved in it. I mean that hurt me that she said that. But at the same time, you see that's obviously a very intensive way of dropping something on somebody. But it was really the first time that it had ever been that intense. There had been other things shared that were really intense, but they weren't shared that way. I mean like the feelings were really intense, but they weren't expressed in that kind of way. They were handled superficially as output and as input to me. 
And so I guess I was really kind of taken aback by this thing about suicide because I hadn't really realized, maybe because I didn't want to, that she was that depressed...was that desperate. So I think that scared me. And when she said that, obviously, I feel I'm involved in the problem. I'm part of the problem. And I'd like to do something with it, but I wasn't sure what to do.
COUNSELOR: Or that you could do it or what. Like, I sense you wanted to do it. Like that was...abstractly you wanted to do it. There was a wanting to help or something, but something like...I don't know...that's pretty big stuff.
PATIENT: Well, it's a matter of not knowing what to do for sure, with exception of what we did because we've gone through all kinds of things. And I laugh because it's...we've played games that have been centered around my wife losing weight. They are games. And now, we've played them enough that you can pretty well predict the stimulus and the response and the whole course of interaction between us, which of course got to be a problem, too, because the games over the legs got to be carried into everything else, which wasn't that satisfying to either of us really, I don't think. [0:10:50] 
(period of silence 0:10:51 - 0:11:45)
But I don't know, since...for example, since last week, things have been, I think, much different in a way...well, pretty satisfying.
COUNSELOR: With you wife, you mean?
PATIENT: Yeah.
COUNSELOR: What was different about it?
PATIENT: Communication was much better. It's been much better. And we've been able to communicate for the most part, I think, without having to yell at each other first. Or if somebody yells, then the other doesn't yell back to escalate it.
COUNSELOR: You're not getting into that kind of escalating thing where you have to talk about it afterwards.
PATIENT: Yeah. What we've...when we first got married, actually in fact, maybe until just recently, we would...often, we would start out without yelling, but the communication wasn't really effective and so it would end up in yelling. Then for a while, I guess we were starting to yell first because we felt it wasn't going to be effective anyway. But now, it's becoming fairly effective. I feel that she's listening more, which...and I'm listening more now. It has just kind of eased the tension and the anger to allow other feelings to- [0:13:11]
COUNSELOR: There isn't the same kind of static and rigidness in the air. Is that what you mean?
PATIENT: Yeah. Well, it's like since our...I think we were both feeling angry and since it never was successfully dissipated through anything that was meaningful to change our relationship or improve it or something, then the anger just hung there in the air. It was there.
COUNSELOR: I cut you off. You were going to say something like it felt more at ease and other feelings and then you were going to say something.
PATIENT: No. Like now that the anger isn't there as much because we've...we're communicating better and because the anger is gone, it has allowed other feelings that are there to come out. Feelings of love and sharing, I think are being more successfully and happily shared.
COUNSELOR: Have you been...like in the last week, were you and your wife feeling loving?
PATIENT: Yeah, I think so. I did. 
COUNSELOR: How did that feel?
PATIENT: Good. It did. And I don't know if I-
COUNSELOR: You say, "Good," kind of funny. I mean-
PATIENT: Well it...yeah, because I used to question. I'd feel good with my wife and I'd question, "Could I feel better with this other person?" and I've quit doing that. I've just accepted the good feeling. It feels good. Why compare it with another good feeling? [0:14:38]
COUNSELOR: Do you mean that kind of the idea is just to have the feeling and not compare it with a yardstick to some other feeling it might be like?
PATIENT: Yeah. It's like it's just stupid to make the comparison, but I was doing it. I was doing it really, in the beginning at least, almost compulsively. I know that interfered because it took away all the pleasure from the relationship. And so I've quit...just quit comparing, which is better because then I can enjoy it. 
COUNSELOR: And so like...it's like you can enjoy it, but how do you...I guess...is it just kind of like it was a nice week or does it give you any kind of sense of hope or...?
PATIENT: No. To say it was just a nice week could say well, it was conflict-free, but it was more than conflict-free. 
COUNSELOR: Yes, I had a sense that it was more.
PATIENT: It was something that I...like if it was conflict-free, then I would say probably it's a week when I didn't give, but I didn't receive either. 
COUNSELOR: Yeah, but there's a really positive thing I hear you saying.
PATIENT: Yeah. I think this is better than that. It was something where I could receive and give and the feelings of giving and receiving were positive and enjoyable to both of us. [0:16:15] 
COUNSELOR: It felt good to you because I sense from what you're saying that there was kind of a warmth in it all that hasn't felt there so much.
PATIENT: Mm-hmm. Yeah. There was.
COUNSELOR: You look a little disturbed. What are you thinking? Is something disturbing you?
PATIENT: Well, it's just back to where do I want to go from here? Yeah, I'm just thinking kind of like what are things we've talked about and what would seem, I guess, important for me to talk about. I happen to think that on Thanksgiving we went to my parents and then to her relatives for dinner and- [0:18:26]
COUNSELOR: Two dinners?
PATIENT: Yeah. Well, you have to do that when you have families so you eat twice. And that night, we went back to my parents' home to pick something up. And I found it much easier to give to my mother. Often, when I would give to her, it was with real anger...kind of begrudging-like. 
COUNSELOR: (inaudible 0:18:55)
PATIENT: Yeah, it was like a feeling of, "Well, it's my duty." 
COUNSELOR: "I don't want to do it, but I have to."
PATIENT: Yeah. Well, not that I have to, that I feel I should. There was a difference this time. I didn't begrudge her. That felt good. It felt good, not like, "Well, you've done your duty again," but it just felt good.
COUNSELOR: Yeah. That's the thing. I sense it's not like you're doing...you're saying, "Look. Gee, I was warm to my wife. I gave to my mother. Gee, aren't I being...?" That's good. It's like it felt good to do that, I guess is what you're saying. Just in the doing of it, it made you feel kind of good inside.
PATIENT: But it's kind of more than that. That's like describing the after-feeling. And the feeling while it was happening was I didn't resent it while it was happening. I didn't think about it like, "You're going to have to do this," or "You should do that." I just did it. You know what I mean? It was spontaneous. [0:20:18]
COUNSELOR: It's funny. It was kind of natural. It just rolled. It was kind of like it was smooth. It felt clear-running in a way.
PATIENT: Yeah. It was a spontaneous experience.
COUNSELOR: It sounds like you felt good to have a spontaneous experience.
PATIENT: Yeah, well, to have a good spontaneous experience. 
COUNSELOR: Or we'll put it this way...that spontaneous experiences can be good.
PATIENT: Yeah. (laughs) That's true.
COUNSELOR: I kind of sense that normally you're feeling not overjoyed, but-
PATIENT: Well, I feel-
COUNSELOR: I don't sense joy in you, but I...but like, you're feeling brighter.
PATIENT: Well, I feel happier.
COUNSELOR: You say that kind of begrudgingly or at least I sense that you do.
PATIENT: Well, I don't know. I guess it's a little like that. I don't mean it begrudgingly. I guess "brighter" just didn't seem the right kind of word, but maybe in a way it is because it's kind of like indicative of an attitude that things can be...you're feeling brighter, that you have a better outlook as opposed to happier. [0:22:00]
COUNSELOR: Oh, I see.
PATIENT: You know what I mean?
COUNSELOR: Yeah. So you're saying you're just feeling happier, but it's not like there's great hope.
PATIENT: Yeah, but see...and maybe that's not true because I do feel better. It's like...well, it's hard...well, it's not hard to explain really. Like, I do behaviour modification with a lot of people and I teach them to do certain things that work. And once they learn how to do them, they can generate the better experiences. That's what I feel is being done. I feel that I do feel hope out of it because our interaction has improved and I know how to keep our interaction on this kind of level. I can do that, but my feelings were preventing that before. Now, I feel like-
COUNSELOR: So you do feel like in a way you do have a key.
PATIENT: Yeah. I mean, but it was the feeling part that...I had the theory and I've got the practice behind me to be able to do it with everybody else, but my own feelings were interfering too much with doing it for myself and with people that are meaningful to me. Now, I feel like at least some of those feelings have loosened up enough so that we can implement these other things to work out those problems. I'm not saying that everything is perfect, but I do feel hopeful. [0:23:47]
COUNSELOR: Yeah, I sense...yeah, let me...maybe this kind of says it. Is it there's a hopefulness, but it's not gung ho, but it's somewhat qualified? It feels good, but there still is a doubt in this qualification or something?
PATIENT: Yeah. 
COUNSELOR: Because I keep hearing that...like, whenever you start talking about this, there's kind of a ring in your voice, which is something [of the other side.] (ph) And I really sense it. I can't say what it is I sense it from, but I really sense it. Is that in there?
PATIENT: I think maybe it is. 
COUNSELOR: Can you say anything (inaudible 0:24:25)?
PATIENT: (chuckles) Yeah, about what it might be? I'm not really sure. Maybe it's the feeling of whether I can be committed or not. Maybe it's still the feeling that maybe I don't feel ready to accept those...and my word was "burdens" of-
COUNSELOR: Yeah. (inaudible 0:24:50) 
PATIENT: That was the word that popped into my mind. It was a "burden."
COUNSELOR: Yeah, I sense it's like you really do sense that it's not like it's rosy because, "I just don't know if I want burdens" and called them "burdens."
PATIENT: Yeah, and I think that's why I feel the way-
COUNSELOR: There's a hesitancy.
PATIENT: Yeah. Okay, right. And I'm not so pessimistic that I don't feel I can't work it out.
COUNSELOR: But it's just like I guess there's a real unsureness about what you want. [0:25:35]
PATIENT: Well, there may be an unsureness, but remember, I think that's because I don't know any other way. Do you know what I mean? It's like if I had an alternative...if I had an alternative to accepting these burdens and being able to successfully handle them or not accepting them with the knowledge that I could and successfully handle them. I'm in kind of the middle saying that I doubt if I can successfully handle them. That's my feeling. But I don't have the alternative of being able to say I can if I want to because I'm left with a feeling that I still can't-
COUNSELOR: Yeah. It's kind of like-
PATIENT: -even though I'd like to.
COUNSELOR: It's not like...you don't feel like it's a clear just alternative choice because it's like you really do want to and I guess...I really think the major thing...what I hear you saying is that, "I'm really just not sure that I can handle it."
PATIENT: Yeah. Right. So it would be different...okay, that's one reason I don't kind of like reflect a really big optimism. And the second reason is really kind of exactly the same thing...the fact that I don't know, we'll say in theory, or how I'm going to work this out...how I'm going to develop a feeling of confidence that I can handle this. So it's my kind of way that if I can't understand it, then I become pessimistic about it, you know? [0:27:41] 
COUNSELOR: Yeah. It's kind of like it's got a dual edge to it. It's like the first part of it is, "I'm really scared that I can't handle it," and the second is, "I don't see a way of changing so I can." I kind of sense like it is kind of very important for you to see a way of handling it. 
PATIENT: Well, yes. Yes, it is and no, it's not. It's important that I see a way of handling it if I'm going to handle it alone by myself. It's not important that I see a way of handling it if I have help in doing it. 
COUNSELOR: What do you mean?
PATIENT: Well, because I like to understand what the process has been; how I learned to handle it. But I don't feel I necessarily have to understand that in the beginning.
COUNSELOR: Oh, I see. I guess what I was saying is that I sensed that you wanted it laid out for you. But I guess what you're saying is, "I want...I guess it's self-confidence, which could help me go through it." Do you know what I mean? It's like an initial feeling that, "I can." That's what's lacking.
PATIENT: You mean that I can work it out...I can do it?
COUNSELOR: Yeah, as opposed to that you can't handle it. I mean, it's like you're leery about it because you just feel very unsure and you're saying that you can't handle it.
PATIENT: That may be true. Before we got married, I had a real lot of nagging doubts about getting married and I could never put my finger on why...exactly what the source was. And that made me get...or at least one of the reasons that I lacked the confidence in my ability to meet needs. I used to be able to find other things that justified the feeling, but they still didn't kind of like ring true because there were so many other ways where I could justify "go ahead and get married," too. [0:30:05]
COUNSELOR: I want to go back to the feeling of this. Perhaps you could say more about what that unsureness feels like. (inaudible 0:30:13)
PATIENT: What it feels like right now, you mean?
COUNSELOR: Yeah. Can you say more about that...I mean, about your fears?
PATIENT: Well, I guess it's just kind of like, okay, I've been able to conceptualize perhaps what it is that has been interfering with me consummating a relationship and consummating in a real emotional sense as well as a physical sense. And that makes me feel better that I can kind of like put my hand on a reason...my finger on something. But at the same time, that doesn't work it out. I feel better...I'm not as afraid of it because I know what the enemy is, but I'm still not sure how successful I'll be in working it out.
COUNSELOR: It's kind of like you really (inaudible 0:31:36)
PATIENT: Yeah, and I have a lot of mixed feelings about it because I feel like I'd end up very lonely and very unhappy and like I would have wasted my whole life. 
COUNSELOR: (inaudible 0:31:51) Do you mean like if you...how would you be lonely...meaning the relationship would fall apart?
PATIENT: Yeah. 
COUNSELOR: And it's kind of like it sounds like it's a risk to do it because it's not maybe great this way, but it's a risk to do it because that could mean it totally is over. You'd break up and you're really afraid of being left with nothing...afraid of being lonely.
PATIENT: No. I don't feel that if I were to...no, I'm not afraid of losing the relationship as long as I want it. It's, I guess, the ambivalence about whether I want it. Now since...during the period that I've been meeting with you, I've felt freer about committing myself. It's just a real...not something I think about or calculate and say, "Well, how are things going with you this week between the two of you? What do you think the chances are?" It has simply been feelings that have been good and I've accepted them just as good feelings and enjoyed them. But at the same time, I guess there is ambivalence, I guess. [0:33:26]
COUNSELOR: Yeah, it's like it has been feeling good, but, "Do I really want it?"
PATIENT: Maybe. 
COUNSELOR: Yeah, but I want to...I still don't feel...when I asked you, "What would it mean if you failed?" you said, "It would mean that I'd be lonely and I had wasted much of my life." Then I said, "Well, do you mean the relationship?"
PATIENT: Oh! Do you mean if I undertake trying to meet these needs and I fail?
COUNSELOR: Yes, that's what I mean. You thought I meant failing in the relationship.
PATIENT: Yeah.
COUNSELOR: I see.
PATIENT: I don't know. I think I'd really feel really bad. I think it would blow not only my feelings about the relationship and my role in it, but I think I would feel totally...really totally shot as a person...as a teacher and as a person who in his professional life, gives and in his personal life, has the inability to give. 
COUNSELOR: It's like kind of there would be your total value as a person in your role as-
PATIENT: As a whole person, not just in my marriage, but in my whole life. 
COUNSELOR: That's very scary to think about that happening, I guess.
PATIENT: Yeah, it is. 
COUNSELOR: I can sure kind of sense now...I can get more of a sense now of your scariness about doing that...having it thrown in your lap because it feels like it's very risky and your sense of who you are as a person really is threatened very much by the outcome. So it's kind of like right now, you think, "Maybe I should stay clear of it all." (inaudible 0:35:30)
PATIENT: I've thought of that, yeah. That kind of feeling has passed through me.
(period of silence 0:35:41 - 0:37:00)
PATIENT: I think I'd really feel messed up. 
COUNSELOR: It would really throw you. 
PATIENT: Yeah. I think I'm really afraid of feeling that way because I felt that way before. 
COUNSELOR: Is that kind of like now, things just feel more like this and you're afraid of rocking the boat because you know what it's like when it seems pretty strongly like that?
PATIENT: Mm-hmm. Well, the last time that I ever really felt that kind of feeling was when I was in college and I told you about the girl that I used to almost compulsively, religiously think about because she had sh*t on me. And I felt a real sense of failure then. And I felt that way for about a year. I really felt very depressed and I don't like that feeling because it was really disturbing and I found it very hard to function. 
COUNSELOR: That feeling of failure.
PATIENT: Well, it was a feeling of failure and rejection both...that I had been rejected, but that somehow I had kind of like made...kind of had stimulated the rejection and had made it happen.
COUNSELOR: It was because you as a...the way you were as a person, you were rejected.
PATIENT: Yeah. 
COUNSELOR: I guess similarly, it's like I guess you said you'd feel really messed up. It's like you failed. You said it before. It's like (inaudible 0:38:45) would be you'd feel like you failed as a person again. And it's like you're really scared about that failure.
PATIENT: Yeah. 
COUNSELOR: You know, like, you're at stake now. 
PATIENT: Mm-hmm. 
(period of silence 0:39:20 - 0:40:42)
PATIENT: Yeah, and the funny thing is that the way things were going, not the way things are necessarily at this present moment, was no matter what I did, I was in danger of failing. You know what I mean? Because if the marriage...my marriage went bad, then I failed. And if it didn't improve, I had failed, too. And I really think I would feel that I had failed as a...totally as a human being. 
COUNSELOR: Mm-hmm. Right. Yeah. I (inaudible 0:41:25) I don't know. Like, if it doesn't work out it's just, "I'm really left kind of (inaudible 0:41:36) with myself. It's like I really haven't succeeded as a person. I really am a failure in my own mind and in my life personally."
PATIENT: Yeah. It's not that...I don't know...to say that...I feel that, but that seems so kind of a simple way of saying it. It's as if...kind of like...well, when you talk about "you feel"...like you feel as a whole person...that just has so damn much meaning.
COUNSELOR: Yeah, and I sense that you have the meaning inside of it for you as you talk. Is that kind of-?
PATIENT: Well-
COUNSELOR: Like, I sense that you sensed what that meant. It was like the words didn't capture it or something like that?
PATIENT: Yeah, well, the words just...they...it's like everything fails. You know what I mean? It's like the way you do so many things has failed and the way you communicate has failed. And maybe your values have failed or where you placed value. It's like when that kind of relationship ends, for example, I feel...and the only way I can really express it is to say it's kind of like I feel in a state of enemy or something...you know...really like my whole structure. [0:44:20]
COUNSELOR: Everything would be disintegrated. It's kind of like any kind of integrated feeling and things being related like, "Just be gone!" It's like everything would be endless and questioned probably, too. 
PATIENT: Yeah, which is when I think about it...think about it...that seems unrealistic. But emotionally, it doesn't feel that way.
COUNSELOR: I sense as you're talking about it, it's kind of like I really get a sense like (inaudible 0:44:51) I am what this (inaudible 0:44:55) would mean. It's like I really sense that it has incredible import emotionally for you. It's like because you can just see that that could happen, it's like what fit together could just be totally ripped apart and what somehow fit together in a pattern or a rug or something just becomes chaotic strands.
PATIENT: Yeah. 
COUNSELOR: It's very frightening.
PATIENT: Yeah, it is. And even that word just doesn't do-
COUNSELOR: Doesn't do it justice.
PATIENT: Doesn't do justice to the feeling, really. 
COUNSELOR: Yeah, because I really sense that the feeling inside is just...I could sense the potential for that and it's kind of like overwhelming to think about it and to sense the power of what that might be like.
PATIENT: Yeah. [0:46:03]
You know, it's funny. You had asked me earlier...you clarified what you had asked me and clarified it to me and if I should attempt to meet needs and fail, how would that feel? And I related that to the disillusion of our relationship, which is funny because in reality, that wouldn't have to mean that that would happen. 
COUNSELOR: I'm not sure I understand what you're saying.
PATIENT: Well, I'm kind of thinking about how I got to that point that if I should try to meet needs and fail, that doesn't have to mean that the relationship ends and yet that's where I took it. It could mean that I would have to learn different ways of meeting needs that maybe were more successful. Either that or learn a more realistic way of perceiving what needs are.
COUNSELOR: It's kind of disturbing (inaudible 0:47:39) that's kind of necessarily kind of disturbing you so that it's necessarily (inaudible 0:47:45) the relationship (inaudible 0:47:47)
PATIENT: Yeah.
COUNSELOR: But I also sense in what you're saying...it wasn't so much the part of the relationship ending, but also...back when you produced this feeling of what potentially could happen to your life and your sense of how you feel about yourself...but also just seeing how you couldn't handle that in your life. How you did fail is part of what would produce that kind of (inaudible 0:48:16) chaos. 
PATIENT: Yeah. 
(period of silence 0:48:32 - 0:51:21)
PATIENT: I'm at a point now where I kind of feel like I somehow misperceive me or kind of perceive it as being really overpowering, which really, we were at last week, but I don't know. I'm kind of asking myself why does it seem so threatening to me and why do I become so afraid of not being able to meet it? 
COUNSELOR: It's like you're asking yourself, "Yeah, I really feel how shaky it could be and how powerful and potent that kind of failure could be (inaudible 0:52:30) why does it feel so (inaudible 0:52:34)?
PATIENT: Yeah. 
COUNSELOR: If I might just say something. Remember when we were talking about...last week about when you had a feeling sometimes...you wanted something...you noticed sometimes your tendency was to find it, have it and then kind of find out why and then it was in a...I kind of sense that happened. Do you see what I mean? Because I really felt you're into that...the power of it. And it was disturbing to you in a sense...the power that you sensed in it. Do you see what I mean? And I kind of had this feeling of you wanting to do that thing about understanding why so that...how does that hit you? [0:53:27]
(period of silence 0:53:28 - 0:55:04)
PATIENT: I think I just came up with my own answer to the question. 
COUNSELOR: The "why" question?
PATIENT: Well, after you said that to me, I actually felt very bad. 
COUNSELOR: Bad, how?
PATIENT: I felt like...I felt let down. And I felt like-
COUNSELOR: I had let you down?
PATIENT: No, well, yes and no. I felt like you were rejecting me.
COUNSELOR: Yes. This is something you wanted to do and it was you and I was-
PATIENT: Well, but it was more than that. I wanted you to help me meet a need...to meet my need to explain something. And then when you wouldn't do that, I felt rejected. And I also just kind of felt that maybe that's why I'm afraid of trying to meet people's needs because I felt that my needs weren't met. If people can't meet mine, then I can't possibly meet theirs. Well, that's it.
COUNSELOR: It kind of leaves you feeling very puzzled. It's like there are two parts in you. The first is like you did feel hurt and rejected that I didn't respond to your need to know why...to help you define the "why." And then you kind of felt in a way alone in that. The second part left you kind of feeling alone in this world. "How can I do that, if people don't do that for me?" [0:56:57]
PATIENT: (clapping) Yeah. 
(period of silence 0:56:58 - 0:58:36)
COUNSELOR: What are your feelings? 
PATIENT: All kind of confused. I don't know. I guess let down.
COUNSELOR: Let down by me?
PATIENT: Mm-hmm. 
COUNSELOR: You're kind of feeling like I said that the way that you do the drilling (ph) was the wrong way and that I wouldn't help you with that or something like that?
PATIENT: Yeah. And kind of like, well, if I don't do it that way, what am I left with to do it with? 
COUNSELOR: I see. It's kind of like, "I don't know any other way."
PATIENT: Yeah. Well, yes and no. I have another way...had another way anyway, but I was uncomfortable with that, which is how I got into this way. (chuckles)
COUNSELOR: How is that? 
PATIENT: Well, I just used to respond totally on an emotional level kind of to everything and often really inappropriately. Or my response would be greater than the stimulus demanded.
COUNSELOR: Yeah. It's kind of like you had that way and you felt you didn't like it too much.
PATIENT: I was unhappy with it, yeah. 
COUNSELOR: You kind of like switched...kind of swung the other way and not so much to have the feelings before you could sense them...understand them.
PATIENT: Yeah, well it was a way of control, but then it became a way of...it became a control on me later on. I could no longer use it, at least not consciously like I was. It became a structure in itself. [1:00:44]
COUNSELOR: A way of life...a way of having or not having (inaudible 1:00:49)
PATIENT: So I guess I feel kind of like let down because you...even though that was a thing I came in for and said it's getting to be too much, I guess I kind of feel like well, if I don't have that, then what am I left with? And you're not giving me anything.
COUNSELOR: Like I'm not giving you the structure. 
PATIENT: Well, it's like if I give you mine (ph), you've got to give me one back. 
COUNSELOR: I guess kind of for me...the structure for me is the way you handle it because what happens with feelings is that in these kind of things, to let yourself really feel them is a very good thing. It would be a change. How does that hit you? Kind of what I try to do in trying to get the sense of what something...an experience feels like to you is to focus you on that edge of it...what the feeling of it is for you. It looks like that makes you feel bad. [1:02:36]
PATIENT: I think maybe it was. 
COUNSELOR: What? Making you feel bad?
PATIENT: Mm-hmm. Either...I think mad. 
COUNSELOR: How so?
PATIENT: Because I was thinking maybe group work would have been better for me after all, (laughs) which I think was because I was feeling mad. 
COUNSELOR: What do you mean? I'm not sure I know what you mean by group work.
PATIENT: Well, because they had offered. Initially, they had said I'd be put in a group. They asked me if I cared and I said no. They said, "Well, you're going to be in a group."
COUNSELOR: Here?
PATIENT: Yeah. And then while you were talking, it just popped into my head. Maybe group...a group would have been better.
COUNSELOR: Why? What made you think that?
PATIENT: I don't know. Well, I think...I guess I was feeling you're not meeting my needs. Maybe I was thinking that...or feeling, really...that only a group could meet my needs. Maybe that's why I made the connection. [1:03:47] 
COUNSELOR: How I really sense why you're feeling bad is that you really do feel this real need to understand, to know why you feel things. You really feel like I'm just not helping you at all there with that "why" part of it.
PATIENT: Well, indirectly, yeah. Because I've made a lot of correlations between things, which has satisfied that need for me.
COUNSELOR: But you really felt it very strongly right now and you really have that very potent feeling of what that experience of failure would mean to you. And you wanted to know why like-
PATIENT: Mm-hmm. Yeah.
COUNSELOR: (inaudible 1:04:34) question, I guess. 
PATIENT: Yeah. I guess it's true.
COUNSELOR: I guess in the start of that question, I guess you felt I was making some kind of statement about that kind of style or something.
PATIENT: Yeah, well, no, not that style-
COUNSELOR: I made it important because-
PATIENT: I felt it more personally than that.
COUNSELOR: Yeah, I made it important very personally because I-
PATIENT: Because the style is me. 
COUNSELOR: Yeah, the style is you and you had said that was something that really disturbed you. And yet you had said that like-
PATIENT: And yet, that's all I've got.
COUNSELOR: Yeah. You had said the first time and it has come up since then, too, "I have...I'm really concerned that I have two (ph) intellectualities (ph), structures...that I try to order my experience too much, instead of having just feelings." So it's in part out of that that I responded to...that there was in a way. Because I really sense that you did have a very poignant sense of that experience that was there. And then you kind of turned around on it. It was like you were in it, but then kind of jumped up on top of a building to look at it in a way. Do you see what I mean? [1:05:56]
PATIENT: Yeah, I know what you mean. 
COUNSELOR: And I guess you feel...and I noticed that and I pointed it out. And I guess you feel kind of hurt that I did that because I was rejecting your style to jump up and look at it.
PATIENT: Well, no, it's more than that. It's kind of like I felt like you were going to take that away from me, but you weren't going to give me anything in return. And if you don't give me anything in return, then you must not like me. You see? That's why I felt rejected...that if you take something from me that I-
COUNSELOR: That's yours.
PATIENT: That's very much mine and part of me now. Then you've got to give me something back.
COUNSELOR: And if I don't, that means I don't care about you. [1:06:46] 
PATIENT: Yeah. I think that's how I felt. That's why I felt the feeling of rejection.
COUNSELOR: Rejection and hurt.
PATIENT: Yeah. 
COUNSELOR: Like I was saying...taking that from you and saying, "I don't care about you enough to give you something else."
PATIENT: Yeah. 
COUNSELOR: I had said something about what I do try to do, but I guess that...I don't know if you didn't hear or didn't think very much of it.
PATIENT: (laughing) Well, I don't know.
COUNSELOR: You see, what I try to do is try to help you to...like when you have that kind of sense of feelings, is try to experience it more. It's kind of exactly what you said you wanted.
PATIENT: (chuckling) Yeah, I'm (inaudible 1:07:41). Yeah, I have to laugh. I just do because it seems like you're telling me, "Well, I give you the very thing that-"
COUNSELOR: I "try" to give you.
PATIENT: Yeah. You try to give me the very experience that is overwhelming to the point that I don't have the structure. You know what I mean?
COUNSELOR: Yeah, well, I guess it's my feeling that if you really...experience is overwhelming when you don't really experience it. In anticipation, it's overwhelming. It's my feeling that if you experience your feelings, it's not such a bad thing. They're not overwhelming. What I'm saying is that maybe you don't...you're afraid of experiencing your feelings because you're afraid they're overwhelming, but I guess it's my...well, everyone fears...fundamental belief that that just ain't so. [1:08:38]
PATIENT: Yeah. I see what you mean.
COUNSELOR: So it's not like I'm a sadist.
PATIENT: Yeah, I know.
COUNSELOR: But it's like it feels very scary and overwhelming because you don't know what it'll be like. It's unknown.
PATIENT: Yeah. 
END TRANSCRIPT
