Transcript of Audio File:
______________________________________________________________________________
BEGIN TRANSCRIPT:
THERAPIST: So when do you start?
CLIENT: Well, I had my second interview, and they're interviewing someone for the same position today, which they told me at my last meeting with Human Resources. So I should hear today or tomorrow they said, but I'm not going to start worrying until Wednesday. So I sent out my thank you letters, so now I just wait. (laughter)
THERAPIST: It's really hard to wait.
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: How did you feel?
CLIENT: Good initially, when I left. But then you know, reflecting on it, you're like "I should have said this, I should have answered it this way." But there's nothing I can do.
THERAPIST: You left feeling good, which is probably a more accurate sort of representation of how you did. You have no control how they interpret things.
[01:03.7]
CLIENT: It was a hard interview though. Because I told you, I had study time and then I had to do this presentation. There was no study time. During the study time, I had to put together an e-mail that I would send to five different clients — potential clients — who have never even heard of the company before, highlighting the positive points and a little bit about what we require and things they didn't give me any information on. I just knew from my own research.
THERAPIST: So this is a way to find out if you did your research.
CLIENT: Yeah. Oh my God, it was absolutely intense. But I got through it. It was not my finest performance, but let's just hope that — I don't know.
THERAPIST: Well, you did put in your background work which is all you can do.
[02:06.1]
CLIENT: So hopefully I should hear today or tomorrow. I hate waiting. (laughter) I'm going to be looking at my phone all day long. (laughter)
THERAPIST: Waiting is very very (inaudible at 2:21.0), and I know you want it.
CLIENT: I know I do. Because I know this person, from what they told me, has an interior design background which from that makes me think they're older than me with more experience, because I don't really have a background. So I'm just hoping — knowing that, I knew that going into it, but —
THERAPIST: Is this the one other person?
[02:56.8]
CLIENT: Mmm-hmm. I met with Human Resources at the beginning, and then they told me that there was one other person and they had the interior design background. So I tried to sell myself on the business end, more than the interior — just because I know more. I don't know if this woman has a degree or even if it's a woman. (laughter) Let's just hope it — I don't know. So, that's that.
Also Thursday was my dad's first superior court hearing, I guess, and the judge decided not to raise the bail because no additional charges had come in. Because the findings from the house had not been, they're not finished yet. So I don't know why it takes seven months. So the judge could not raise bail at that time. So he is still —
[04:10.2]
THERAPIST: Which leaves you feeling?
CLIENT: I don't know. I've decided that I just don't care. I mean, it's sort of a long story. He is planning on pleading guilty.
THERAPIST: That's a shift.
CLIENT: Yeah. Well, who knows if this is actually going to happen. He has told my stepmother that he is planning on pleading guilty because he doesn't want to take this to trial and spend hundreds of thousands of dollars and not win anyway. Because it's not like it's circumstantial evidence. It's fact. So his first trial date is set for early 2013. So he does not have to plead guilty until then.
[05:05.2]
And it's in his best interest to not do that, to not plead guilty until then because if he were to plead guilty tomorrow and additional charges come in, he has already played that card. He has no leverage. He has already said that he's guilty of these crimes, and in the court of law you are now guilty of — you have no more wiggle room. They can throw on everything else that they find. Or he could plead guilty, say tomorrow, and get credit for time served if they were to put on additional charges. But they would never do that. So he will be free most likely until January.
[06:02.6]
THERAPIST: January 2013.
CLIENT: Unless additional charges come in sooner, and he just decides to start serving his time or whatever he is sentenced to. So, that's really frustrating but I also know that he is seeing a court-ordered psychiatrist who is prescribing him whatever drug, I don't know. But my stepmother says he is abusing them and every time she has talked to him, he cannot even form logical sentences.
THERAPIST: You say you don't care, but it sounds like you're pretty disgusted.
[06:54.8]
CLIENT: Yeah. Absolutely disgusted. That's a good word for it. And I asked her "Why is he still living in this hotel? I thought this was our number one priority at this point, to get him out of this over $100 a night hotel and into a group home. There has to be something available in this sort of situation." She's like "Well I don't want to kick him when he's down." I'm like "You've got to be kidding me." We were on the phone and I had my calculator and I'm like "If he stays there until January, you're spending like $4,000 a month."
THERAPIST: He could be in an apartment for a lot less than that.
CLIENT: Yeah. I don't understand where the logic is in this at all. But she is a grown-up and she's just not — you know, originally when we were approaching this date and I talked to her, she had said that if the bail is raised, she can't do anything. She isn't going to take out another bail bond.
[08:23.1]
But after speaking with her on Friday, she was like "Thank God they didn't raise the bail because we would have had to borrow money somewhere, and I couldn't have him just sitting there." I'm like "What?" So, I don't know. He's going to suck her dry until she wakes up.
THERAPIST: You can't make decisions for her.
CLIENT: I wish I could. So, I don't know. Yeah, it's disgusting that he's just sitting there, and he has the computer back. He can use the computer again. (pause) So he's going to be abusing drugs until January, sitting in this apartment. He doesn't have a dollar to his name. Not a cent.
[09:30.3]
So she's initially paying for him to live in a hotel, do whatever he's doing. I know he doesn't have a kitchen, so he's eating out every single meal. I don't know. I'm not going to — well, I do worry about it. I'm not going to say I'm not going to worry about it. I do not — and I don't know where she's getting this money from to be able to spend that much. So, that's that. I just hope this doesn't go on until January. That's why I can't even worry about it because I can't even picture myself doing this still in January.
THERAPIST: That's a long time.
[10:26.9]
CLIENT: Yeah. Because he was initially arrested in January, so it will be a whole year. I had no idea of this process before any of this happened.
THERAPIST: Until you really go through it, who does?
CLIENT: Yeah, I know. (pause) So my stepmother could not go to his hearing because of work, so her brother went. He's a really smart guy and he knows the right questions to ask. Because it's like talking to a wall whenever I ask her these questions, "Oh, I don't know." I'm like "Well, did you ask his attorney this?" She said she can't ask him anything without my dad present because of attorney-client confidentiality.
[11:31.5]
And it's like "Well, why don't you set up a meeting to be there with the two of them?" She's like "Your father won't let me do that." I'm like "This is your concern too. You're still married to him." I don't know.
THERAPIST: So you feel like she's not watching out for herself?
CLIENT: No, not at all. And I also feel like she's not telling me everything because she's trying to spare my feelings, I think. But I know —
THERAPIST: What is it you think she's not telling you?
CLIENT: She gives me a very — you can just tell when you're talking to someone. It's a very sugar-coated sort of summary of what happened.
THERAPIST: So you have a sense you're not being told, but you don't know what it is.
[12:27.7]
CLIENT: Yeah. And I know she's giving my little brother and sister the same speech. Not that I think they should be spared anything either, because they're going through this as much as everyone else is. I understand why she would be doing that for them, but I'm in my twenties. I know what's going on. And the more you — it just seems you're hiding things more than you're —
THERAPIST: Your relationship with your dad is different than their relationship. Even before this came out, you had a pretty tense and antagonistic relationship with him and it sounds like they didn't. So trying to preserve their relationship is different than preserving yours.
CLIENT: Yeah. (pause) I'm so — trying to be over this, but it's just not happening.
THERAPIST: It's kind of hard to force yourself to feel something different, or to not feel what you're feeling.
[13:37.3]
CLIENT: It's just still the first thing I wake up and think about, and the last thing I go to sleep and think about. It has been since February, since January [I mean]. I really thought this would be over, like done with by now. But it hasn't even technically started. Nothing has happened. So even if he did decide to take this to trial, it would probably be another five months from the start date until his sentencing.
THERAPIST: When you wake up and think about it, what is it that comes to mind?
[14:26.1]
CLIENT: I don't know. Just — (pause) nothing in particular. Just, well, in the past week it's been this court date and then since then, it's been, I don't know. He's just getting — like this is, if you know him, this is like exactly — I'm sure he's gone through whatever he's gone through up against prison time — but this is what he does. He is a drug abuser. He is so happy using drugs, eating ungodly amounts and sitting on the couch, 24/7. And that's exactly what he's doing with no one monitoring him. He just gets to — (pause) I don't know. It's disgusting. (pause) I only got up to check if the door was locked twice last night, which is a good improvement. (laughter)
[15:57.0]
THERAPIST: You're feeling pretty anxious.
CLIENT: Yeah. I'm trying — like you said last week, trying to be present in the moment. And I've been saying it to myself. I said it all week.
THERAPIST: It's really hard to do.
CLIENT: I feel like I get the most overwhelmed when I'm alone, when it's usually when I'm driving to work or to school, and so I've been saying — it works for the second. So it has sort of become part of my routine, saying it. It has helped in that second where I'm like "I have 17,000 things to do."
[16:48.8]
THERAPIST: What you can find, if you keep practicing that, those moments will tend to last a little longer. Because what happens is there are so many places for your mind to go right now, and to feel pulled pretty strongly, to thinking about your dad, thinking about your interview, thinking about graduation, thinking about maybe even going to a good place and thinking about vacation. There are so many variables up in the air with a really strong pull. Some of them are good. Like there's nothing wrong with letting yourself fast forward to vacation. Being out of the moment is not in itself harmful. It's that we usually end up going to a place that makes us feel anxious or worried or upset. If you go someplace and you're thinking about being on the beach, that's probably good for your body. That induces relaxation, and that's nice.
[17:45.9]
When you get pulled someplace else, that's a little bit of a different story. But as you practice kind of pulling yourself back to the moment and focusing on, you know — if you're driving, just notice the color of the car in front of you, or noticing the trees on the side of the road are greener than they were last week when you made this drive. Every time you pull yourself back to the moment, it's practice of being where you are, and it might last for a half a second this time. And if you keep doing it, it will last a little bit longer and it gets a little bit easier to pull yourself back, and you get the benefit more and more of being present in one place where there's not anxiety and there's not worry. The fact that right now it's lasting for just a moment and you get pulled back to wherever your head was going before, is not unusual. If you keep doing it —
[18:44.5]
CLIENT: Yeah, I will keep doing it, because I see — I have three papers to do this weekend. I wrote 50 pages this weekend. On Friday night when I got out of work I started it. I was thinking there's no possible way I can complete this by Sunday at noon.
THERAPIST: I don't know how you did. It takes a lot of mental energy.
CLIENT: Yeah. I'm like drained, but I kept saying to myself "Be present. Focus on this page, and then focus on the next." Then all of a sudden on Friday night I finished the first 12 pages, which is more than I had planned. Then through Saturday and then Sunday I had the last four to complete. I had said that to myself for each page, and it worked.
[19:49.2]
THERAPIST: Good for you.
CLIENT: Yeah. Because if you think about the 50 pages, it seems like a never-ending —
THERAPIST: Yes, that seems very overwhelming, and you can't write 50 pages at once.
CLIENT: No.
THERAPIST: You can only write line by line, paragraph by paragraph.
CLIENT: So I focused on finishing the paragraph and then every five or so pages, I'd get up, walk around the house, do something for five minutes.
THERAPIST: And that's good practice, because you need — writing is really hard work, even with great attention span. It's amazing with all that going on, how much you were able to focus. But even with really good focus and attention span, we're really only at our best focusing for 20 or 30 minutes at a time.
[20:43.5]
Yes, of course you can push that, but it's not where you're going to be most productive. And giving yourself time to stretch your neck, walk around, take your eyes off the screen for a little bit and focus on something further away to give that kind of break to your eyes, that helps to give you time to refocus and to be a little bit more attentive. If you didn't get up, you'd probably get less done in the next half hour than doing what you did. What you did was very good intuition.
CLIENT: I was very happy, and it was a huge weight off my shoulders when those three papers where the ones I was most stressed about. They are completely done. I have two more —
THERAPIST: That's a great accomplishment.
[21:31.9]
CLIENT: — that are due next Monday. And then I'm done. (laughter) (pause) So the last two papers of undergrad. And hopefully I have a job by next Monday too. (laughter)
THERAPIST: You are going to feel very different writing them, knowing you have a job to go to.
CLIENT: I know. But at the same time, if I know I have a job lined up, they are going to be the most half-assed papers I have ever written. (laughter) I have a big presentation today on one of the papers I completed this weekend, which should be fine.
THERAPIST: You said you generally like presentations.
[22:21.8]
CLIENT: Yeah, I don't get nervous really. Well, I get nervous but then I've taken a million and a half of those speaking classes and you channel those nerves into positive energy, blah blah blah. So, captive audience is my fave. (laughter) But it will just be nice to get it over with, and then that class is done. I told a little white lie. Actually it was a lie, but it will be in my favor, that I still have class on Wednesday so that I'm out of work at noon. But I knew I'd be writing a paper that was due on Monday so —
THERAPIST: You will still be doing classwork.
CLIENT: Mm-hm.
THERAPIST: You probably could have told them that and still gotten yourself out of work at twelve.
CLIENT: Yeah, but at first it was by accident. I thought I had a Wednesday class but quickly remembered I didn't, so I just didn't correct myself.
THERAPIST: I don't judge you at all.
CLIENT: (Laughter) Thank you.
[23:33.2]
THERAPIST: For not telling the exact reason why you need to leave, but you probably could have also just set the boundary that you need to leave to do your classwork. You still have stuff to finish.
CLIENT: And then, too, my internship is done. I finished last week, so I have Tuesday and Thursday where I don't go in until noon. And then Wednesday I'm out at noon. So this week will be easier than most.
THERAPIST: You'll have time to catch up, get some sleep maybe.
CLIENT: Go to the gym, because I haven't gone — in the last two weeks, I've only gone one day a week.
THERAPIST: Much less than your usual.
CLIENT: Yeah, which I hate.
THERAPIST: It's a big piece of how you keep yourself grounded and feeling good.
[24:20.1]
CLIENT: I know. And then when you get out of the habit, it's like I don't really want to go, and then you feel worse that you didn't go, you know. So I have to get back into my routine. I told my trainer I am actually busy, it's not an excuse. I'm just absolutely exhausted. But this weekend I finished my paper and I could have definitely gone. Saturday was Kyle's birthday and I went to lunch with his parents on Sunday and then I took him out to dinner Friday night. And then I had a big event for my internship on Saturday night. So I kind of felt bad because I was at work all day, starting at four until one at this event.
THERAPIST: Wow. That's a late night.
CLIENT: Yeah. And then I was doing my homework the rest of the weekend, so his birthday kind of got skipped.
[25:32.9]
THERAPIST: Well, it sounds like — I mean, you went out.
CLIENT: He had this sort of party thing with his friends which I couldn't go to, but it's okay. (pause) What else? (pause) I graduate in 11 days. (laughter) Not that I've been counting or anything.
THERAPIST: That's not very many. Less than two weeks. Have you decided what you're doing about who you're inviting?
CLIENT: Kind of. I talked to my stepmother about it, because I only get two tickets and my grandparents are going to be sitting. There is standing room, and I told her that I would love for her to be there but I don't have tickets. It's totally up to her if she wants to stand, but she can't drive. Did I tell you this?
[26:31.0]
Because she had a seizure about three months ago, and so I guess when you have a seizure your license is suspended — well, not suspended, she still has her license, but you can't drive for six months. So I don't know how she'll get there anyway. But I extended the invitation. And if it rains, there's no point in going anyway because there is no standing room. You get two tickets under the tent and then they project it in the auditorium across campus.
THERAPIST: Is it projected to rain? I know the past ten-day forecast is not very reliable.
CLIENT: Oh, I know. I don't even know. So I think it's just going to be my grandparents, my mom's parents, Kyle, my mom, my stepfather, and I think that's it.
[27:38.9]
THERAPIST: Which is what you really wanted. Because I know you told her that you really want her to be there, but in actuality it sounded like that was going to feel more tense for you and worrying about how people were doing than focusing on being —
CLIENT: At my graduation. Yeah. (pause) I don't know if this is my anxiety or whatever, but it's more OCD than anything. So I've been checking my mailbox every two hours for some, I don't know why. But like I'm expecting — so my dad. Okay.
[28:34.6]
So when we would get in these fights or whatever, some of them were incredibly juvenile, I guess, and I wouldn't see him — I'd refuse to go over there for a couple of months, and he'd write me these big long letters, and I usually wouldn't even open them. I have them all, but some of them I've never opened. So I've been expecting him to send me a letter this whole time. He knows I graduate on the 12th, and so I've been looking for him — I don't know. I've just been expecting him to send me a letter and it hasn't come. So as it gets closer to my graduation, I keep looking for it. I don't know.
[29:28.2]
THERAPIST: When you open your mailbox, what are you feeling?
CLIENT: I don't know. (pause) I don't know. (pause) I haven't actually noticed anything. (pause) As much as I actually am disgusted by everything about him, I'm still wanting some sort of recognition in this whole — you know, he has never called me, never sent me an e-mail now that he has his computer back. Nothing. I know he's still talking to my little brother and sister. I don't know.
THERAPIST: (inaudible)
[30:24.3]
CLIENT: A letter, yeah. I don't know. Anything at this point. Now that I'm over my initial absolute anger, you know, it's just kind of like, I don't know. But I still, I mean, if I were to talk to him on the phone or anything, I would have nothing nice to say, so I probably wouldn't say anything at all. (chuckles)
THERAPIST: It's okay for your feelings not to make sense. It's okay for you to be angry with him and to feel disgusted by what you've learned, and to still want some acknowledgement for what's going on in your life, and also some acknowledgement for the impact that his choices and behaviors have made on you. There's nothing in all of those emotions that can't go with the other.
[31:29.8]
CLIENT: I initially found out about all this at work, and I had to leave. So now they know — the parents know about it, so they ask every so often. I just don't want to tell them about it, you know. Besides the rest of the week, it does not come up at all. Well, maybe if I'm talking to Kyle about it on Thursday or Friday.
THERAPIST: That's one of the reasons you have here.
CLIENT: Yeah. (pause) I don't know. I just wish it was over, but it's not. (pause)
THERAPIST: What would you want a letter from him to say?
CLIENT: I don't know — "I'm sorry." (pause) That he admitting — that he definitely admits to doing this and he will be seeking help, and he's ready to serve his time and ownership of all this. Because that's not him, at all, whatsoever.
[32:49.0]
THERAPIST: (inaudible) to take ownership and responsibility.
CLIENT: Yeah. Not that that would change how I feel at all, but if I had received a letter that was anything other than that, it would reinforce the negative feelings. But I haven't gotten anything, and honestly I doubt that I will, because he knows that he can sort of manipulate everyone else. And I'm sure he knows at this point there's no —
THERAPIST: That he has trouble doing that to you.
[33:28.7]
CLIENT: Yeah. Uh-huh. Well, I know he was mad at me on, two weeks after this had happened, that I didn't call him on his birthday. We share a birthday. (pause) I don't know. (pause) Of course, I should be worrying about — if he gets probation or if he served say two years, what is he going to do to survive? Who is going to hire — well, one, he can't live anywhere near a school, a library, a playground, a church.
THERAPIST: You have to register as a sex offender.
CLIENT: You have to register as a sex offender. If you serve time at, what is it, Level 3 — wait, Level 3 is actual physical contact. So he'll be at least a Level 2 sex offender. So you cannot live anywhere near those places. You cannot work at an entire list of different places. I mean, who is going to hire you anyway? He's going to flip burgers at McDonald's, you know?
[34:42.5]
And that's his worry. (laughter) But of course, I think about it. (pause) Whatever. He did this to himself.
THERAPIST: He did it to a lot of people because it affects you all. It's where a lot of your anger comes from is that he didn't just do this to himself but it's obviously affecting you. It affects your brother and sister. It affects your stepmother. It sounds like what you would really like in the letter is an acknowledgement, an awareness and sort of admission that he recognizes that, which he has never been able to give you.
[35:39.8]
CLIENT: I just still can't believe this is my life, you know? (chuckles) I mean, that this is a part of my life, you know? (pause) Lily (ph), the little girl I babysit for, she asks "What's your mom's name? What's your dad's name? What's your brother's name? What's your sister's name?" And then she'll ask "Where's your mom?" "Well, she's probably at work." Then she'll ask "Where's your dad?" and I'm like "Uh, probably at work." (chuckles)
I don't know. In the future, I know I will meet new people and they ask, you know — or even people I know now who have no idea that any of this is going on. I mean, do I lie? "Oh, yeah, I don't see my dad anymore." Because why?
[36:50.1]
THERAPIST: I know it's kind of imagining in the future, but how would you feel about just creating that boundary of not sharing any information, depending upon who it is? Obviously, with those with whom you are closest, you would probably want to share a different level of information. But it's also okay, random colleagues and those you aren't close to, to not give an explanation. Or just use your stepdad as your dad for those kind of —
CLIENT: Yeah. (pause) I don't know. I know I say this a million times, but I just wish this was over. I don't know.
[37:45.7]
THERAPIST: I can understand your wish. You want it to all go away.
CLIENT: Yes, please. (chuckles) If that could happen. (pause) When we go on vacation, my stepmother and normally my dad and that whole side would go to (inaudible at 38:17.1) every summer. My stepmother and brother and sister are still going, and we just talked about Kyle and I going over for the weekend. Which I love going, and I'm sure it will be fun.
[38:40.8]
But we see all my stepmother's extended family, the ones we don't talk to on a regular basis except for there. And so now I'm like oh my God, they're all going to have a million and a half questions for me. But that's not until June, which is really a month away. (pause) I just wish I could focus on graduating and finals and finding a job. That's like what should be one, two and three on my list. And I have to cut down my work hours because at the end of the week, I'm dying. I'm absolutely exhausted. Then weekends I'm doing homework and still trying to be a young adult, going out with my friends. And then Monday again and I haven't really even —
[40:04.1]
THERAPIST: There's no time to rest. How many hours are you working?
CLIENT: Last week I was paid for 47.
THERAPIST: That's a lot of time.
CLIENT: Yeah. This week it will be less.
THERAPIST: Do you feel pressured to work that much because of the money or cause they want you?
CLIENT: Both. On Friday when I was paid for 47 hours, it was totally worth it because I'm paid in cash. I think a lot of it is the nature of the job. If I had been nine to five and those additional seven hours was overtime, you feel like you have a little bit more control. But when they have a meeting that runs two hours late, you can't just leave. (chuckles) Or they're out to dinner and they're going to order one more drink, so you're not leaving yet.
[41:10.1]
THERAPIST: So it's not that they're asking you to come an extra day, it's that your days get extended.
CLIENT: Longer. So I should — on Tuesdays and Thursdays, I'm supposed to work 12 to 6:30. I have never gotten out at 6:30. Then on the way home from work they get stuck in traffic. Then I run the bath — when they get home, [they're in the bath] on Tuesdays and Thursdays when they get home from work, so I'm just not going to leave in the middle of bath time. So we finish bath time, then we brush hair, then we put on pajamas, then we get in bed and start a book, and then it's 8:00.
THERAPIST: The stop times are very soft.
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: And that's something that sort of has gotten — I mean, I know you are almost done with them, so there's not a lot of point in pressing it now, but just thinking about yourself and where this pattern might show up in other places. If they were at a daycare center, if their meeting ran late, they would excuse themselves because they'd be getting charged by the minute for all that time.
[42:24.6]
CLIENT: That's true.
THERAPIST: So they're making a choice to say "Well, Kim is expecting us home at this time. We could address these last couple of points in this meeting. Well, Kim is there." But just thinking about where you let your needs and someone else's needs and kind of playing the balance. This pattern has been established where it sounds like you don't flip out on them when they get home late. Not that that would be a professional way to handle it. But there is a professional way to say "I really need to know when you're coming home. If it's going to be 6:30, then we plan on 6:30. If that's unrealistic, then we need to plan ahead for what really is my end time."
[43:15.7]
Because the same kind of thing can happen with a different job as well. It's harder when you're dealing with people than when you're dealing with a laptop. But the boundary of how many projects you take on, or how long you stay at the office, or how accountable you are on the weekends, those kind of things are going to be present in the next type of job, whether it's with this place you interviewed or not. Figuring out how do you push back and preserve your time is something that is going to crop up in lots of places. I think the type of job you're in now is absolutely really tricky because the relationship is so important, and obviously you're not just affecting the employer if you stand up in the middle of bath time and walk out when they walk in. So it's really hard to do that.
[44:28.8]
CLIENT: Yeah. I'm probably going to work for them through May and then —
THERAPIST: Through the end of May?
CLIENT: Through the end of May. I graduate on the 12<sup>th</sup> and then I leave for a week, the 19<sup>th</sup> through the 26<sup>th</sup>, then there's five days left in May. Four days left in May.
THERAPIST: Then come back and reconnect with the kids and have a planned goodbye.
CLIENT: Uh-huh. And then hopefully I'll be starting the job on the 1<sup>st</sup>. The 1<sup>st</sup> is Friday. We haven't even spoken about money or anything with this job. I guess they have to offer it to me first. I know from my own sort of research at glassdoor.com, you can see a range of what people make, and they're not the best payers in the world.
[45:35.2]
THERAPIST: That company?
CLIENT: That company.
THERAPIST: But it has benefits.
CLIENT: Yeah, I think that's what a lot of it is.
THERAPIST: There's a way, trying to take that into account, that's something but you also need to think about —
CLIENT: I don't even know — I've never done this before so I don't know if I have any negotiating room. This is the first time — I mean, I don't even know how to fill out a W2. (laughter)
THERAPIST: You'll figure that out.
CLIENT: Well, first they have to offer me the position, so I guess I'll cross that bridge when I get to it.
THERAPIST: It's really hard to negotiate as entry-level because they know you don't have — it's not like you have a previous salary that you're helping to match compensation.
[46:32.7]
But I think going in, the knowledge that you do have is what's the standard in the industry for this position. And if they're off from that, you can certainly push back a little and say "It's my understanding that at a commensurate company, this position would be worth blah blah blah." So you can certainly state your knowledge of the field and what's expected in the field. They're going to probably come back with "Yes, we understand that, but you need to understand you get this and this and this at this company" and then you decide.
But it's certainly okay, if they're coming in at something under what seems to be standard in the industry, it's absolutely — they're not going to take away their offer because you asked for something to match. They may not give it to you and you might not get anywhere, but they are not going to rescind their offer. Setting a standard of asking for yourself is important.
[47:40.3]
CLIENT: It just still seems so strange having that conversation.
THERAPIST: They are awkward conversations to have.
CLIENT: But I just hope we get to that point —
THERAPIST: It would be wonderful to be in the position to have that conversation.
CLIENT: But I know that they give full health insurance, dental and eye.
THERAPIST: That's great. That is absolutely worth something, especially as you wear glasses.
CLIENT: Considering (inaudible at 48:12.2) health insurance, which is terrible. There's all sorts of, they call them "happiness incentives." So those sort of things you have to weigh against am I going to be in a job making $70,000 but I hate going there every single day.
THERAPIST: The atmosphere of the company counts for something. Feeling like you're a valued employee and happy to go to work. And having some of the benefits you can't necessarily match up in a monetary way, but you'll be fine because you have that arrangement with your parents that you're going to be living in that house.
[48:58.1]
CLIENT: I can't wait.
THERAPIST: That takes a little bit of pressure off financially. But hopefully we'll be having that conversation. You've done what you can.
CLIENT: There's nothing more I can do. I just have to —
THERAPIST: Think positive thoughts. Why don't we end on that note and go think positive thoughts. I think we're scheduled for the next two weeks and then you're away.
CLIENT: Yes, next week's and then I'm away.
THERAPIST: Alright, I'll see you next week. Good luck.
END TRANSCRIPT
