TRANSCRIPT OF AUDIO FILE:
___________________________________________________________________________________
BEGIN TRANSCRIPT:
PATIENT: You don't mind if I (inaudible)?
COUNSELOR: Definitely not.
PATIENT: How are you?
COUNSELOR: I'm all right.
PATIENT: Good.
COUNSELOR: Yeah. What's going on with you?
PATIENT: Well, actually, good things, I think. Let's see. Cole and I are getting along really well, we've made a lot of strides, and I think he's broken down as well a lot more, so I'm like understanding him better, he's understanding me, he's accepting the way I feel and dealing with it as opposed to pushing me away, and he's getting [a lot] (ph) through it, so that's really good. He went away to Vermont, so....
I think I'm moving out of my apartment into an apartment with the lady I work with, so my rent will be able to cut in half, which is really good, although I was thinking that I don't love the apartment but I'm always at Cole's anyway and, you know, the room is fine and it's big and I have my own bathroom and all my stuff will fit in it, and it's a great location, so.... But I guess I was thinking about it and I started getting a little anxiety about it last night because it's like, I like the apartment I'm in right now, it's very me, it's small, it's expensive, so I guess I started feeling-so I know I can't afford it and it makes complete sense to give it up, and I have to and I know I should, so-
COUNSELOR: But you were feeling...?
PATIENT: But so actually two months ago they asked me, "Are you going to renew your lease or not?" and I've been hedging and I haven't called them on it, so.... Plus I told you my lease was in Trey's name, so I'd have to get it put in my name, which would be a whole big thing. So anyway, so I guess I'm going to move, but I was feeling a little anxious about it. Like I felt the same way when I had to sell my car. It's like I feel like, I guess deep down inside somewhere, I feel like my self-worth kind of depends on my material possessions, and here is this really cute apartment I have, and I love it, but I can't afford it and I have to give it up and I know that, but it kind of bothers me, you know? Same thing with my car. I had such a struggle, you know, getting the idea through my head that I had to sell it, I knew I had to, but I really didn't want to because it was like I felt like it was part of me and who I was, you know? Which is stupid, I know. So-and then-
COUNSELOR: Why do you think-
PATIENT: Why is it stupid? Well, because that's not who I am. I mean who I am, whether I'm a good person or people are going to like me, has nothing to do with whether I have a nice car or a nice apartment, you know? But that's something that I've always-I guess maybe because of where I grew up with all these nouveau riche people that, you know, importance is placed on materialistic things, and I guess I internalized all of that, but- [0:02:50.4]
COUNSELOR: Did you think that I would think that's (inaudible)? I mean, believing your opinion that material things are important to your self-worth?
PATIENT: (laughs) I would think you-I would think anybody would, yeah, I guess I would think-just to a small degree, though, not like-I wouldn't obsess over it or worry about it. But that's how I feel, you know, so I think that's how other people feel, too, or anybody who's rational would feel, you know. In fact, Cole said to me, he's been (inaudible at 0:03:13.5) for like five years, and he said, you know, he realized, you know, that the couple of things I have issues with, one is sex and one is money and-which is true and I'll explain that to you better in a second, but-
COUNSELOR: That's very enticing. Hmm.
COUNSELOR AND PATIENT: (laugh)
PATIENT: He said, you know, "You don't have money, you pay your rent, you don't have a lot of money left over and you go out and you..."-I bought our tickets to Louisiana for Christmas, because he does things for me all the time, and part of it is, you know, I never thought of it as wanting him to accept me, but I definitely wanted him to know that I could do nice things for him, too, but part of it was not wanting him to feel like I was taking advantage of him or his money, you know, and feeling like I could give something, you know, the same thing back. But I can't, I can't, I don't have what he has, you know. I can give different things back to him, I can give love and support and.... So what he said to me when he called me yesterday was, you know, "I don't-I love you for you, I don't, you know.... Don't spend money you don't have, don't, you know, don't feel like.... You know I love you, you don't have to buy me things, you don't have to," you know. So those made me feel really good, and made me think about it. I hadn't really thought about it that way before, that I was trying to overcompensate by like spending money and buying things that I couldn't afford for other people and for myself, you know? [0:04:36.8]
And the other thing with sex is that...um...that.... (laughs) I'm uncomfortable, so automatically my wall just started to go up and I block it out, but he-obviously I don't like talking about sex, but it's been a huge issue in one way or another in my life forever-forever-and I still don't understand exactly why, but it always has been. And, you know, I don't know if you read my history or if I told you anything about it but I always, until I was a junior in college, I just-from the time I was really little I would meet people that I liked and I would-I guess if I felt-I don't know whether it was intimately attracted to them or sexually attracted to them, maybe it has more to do with intimacy than sex, actually, but any time that chemistry was there and that, you know, wanting to get closer on both parts, I would run like hell in the other direc-I ran away from every single potential relationship I ever could have had, until I was raped, and then it took that situation and I said, "Oh, my God, I'm running away from sex, I'm running away from love and potentially good relationships, and now this happens to me. Like what am I doing to myself?" And that really made me turn around and change the way I looked at, not sex, but allowing myself to be involved in an intimate relationship. And that's the first time I ever was afterwards, like I, you know, formed my first long-term relationship, I allowed myself to. So....
And I don't know where the fears came from when I was little. But I can remember back to when I was really little, like a little girl, walking to school with my sister, like walking to the bus stop, and I remember there were these bigger boys, and like one of them-I don't know whether he liked me or paid particular attention to me or whatever, but it really skeebed me out, like I used to get the heebie jeebies, you know, I used to be like-it's always been there, like this fear of I don't know, always. I don't remember when it wasn't, at all.
COUNSELOR: How is that fear with you today?
PATIENT: Well, it's not a fear any more because I've overcome it, I mean, I've been in one relationship after another, and I guess as I've gotten older I've learned to accept my sexuality more, you know, and just slowly. But there are definitely times when I'm very uncomfortable with it. But the way it's affecting Cole now is, he's a very sexual person, I mean, that's part of what I see in him, like he's very charismatic and he's got a like strong magnetism, and that's part of what I'm attracted to because I know there's part of me inside of me that's like that. Sometimes it comes out, you know, but I'm just not so comfortable with it. But as I've gotten older I'm more and more comfortable with it. [0:07:19.2]
But he.... Well, I mean, you may have read this also, and I've told you, and I feel like I have to preface this because it's important to me and it's an issue to me, but, you know, I'm a very monogamous person, I've only slept with like six people in my life, each one of them has been someone I've been seriously involved with. I've never run around, I've never.... But my fourth long-term boyfriend gave me genital warts and I didn't know he had it and I didn't like sleep with him for five months and I didn't know he had it until I got it from him, so.... Which was really bad, but whatever, that was like seven-six-years ago and I've learned to deal with it. And then when I broke up with him and I went out with Trey, Trey was really cool with it, he was just like, "I love you, I'm not worried about it," blah blah blah. But Cole was really freaked out by it, like so it was really a big obstacle we had to overcome, and he decided he wasn't going to, you know, say, "I don't want anything to do with you because of it," and it's not even a big deal, but he.... I mean, when you have it, you understand what it's about more than like the taboo that surrounds it when you don't know what it is and you don't have it, it's just...you know. So that's been a big thing and that's kind of screwed up our sex life, because he was really scared and he was-you know, whereas normally he would be, and has been in the past, really, you know, passionate and sexually involved with the person he's with-or so I understood from him-he would, you know, kind of.... It's gotten much better progressively, but he was really scared, and it was, you know, like a problem.
So, I mean, so maybe that's part of it, like partially I feel rejected by him because he doesn't want to like make love all the time when I want to, and I'm not sure whether it's, you know, at first, you know, maybe part of it is because that's still a factor in his mind to a small degree. Part of it makes me feel like I'm not really physically attractive, I know he thought his last girlfriend was beautiful and had a great body, you know, and so I'm always self-conscious about that, but anyway.... So there's all these dynamics going on with our sex life, you know. And he keeps telling me, "This is like a mature relationship and it's not that important and, you know, it's good and don't worry" and, you know, but it's just still I feel like there is a barrier there. And I think because.... He was going away for a week and he left on Tuesday, so Monday night I wanted to make love, and when he rolled over to go to sleep I was really offended, and I started getting really insecure and having like an anxiety attack, which was like, "Okay" with him. [0:09:51.7]
And plus I know some things, like I know he dated this girl in Vermont and he's going to see her when he's out there, just as a friend. I mean, we've talked about it and we've talked about trusting each other and the fact that - but still there's like this little insecurity like, "Oh, my God, oh, my God." So I started thinking, well, why doesn't-you know, he's not going to see me for a week, and why doesn't he want to be with me? And what-? You know, I started, you know, flipping out a little. And then I thought, well, maybe he's going to be with her and then, you know, he doesn't want to be with me because he's going to see Viv and he's going to sleep with-you know what I mean? I mean, this is in my head, and I think a lot of it-I thought about it, and I think a lot of it-I mean, we talked about it, and he's like, "Are you okay? What's wrong?" so we talked it through, whereas when we were first going out he would just say like, "You're fucked up, you deal with it," you know what I mean? Now he like talks through everything with me.
COUNSELOR: So this has been an ongoing problem where...
PATIENT: Yeah.
COUNSELOR: ...you have wanted to have sex more often than he has.
PATIENT: Yeah.
COUNSELOR: And it's causing-
PATIENT: But to me I feel like it brings me closer to him and connects me to him more. To him he's like, "We can lay here and hold each other, and we can be close and connected, why is sex such a big deal to you?" Now, sex isn't a big deal to me. I mean, I'm the last person-I mean, maybe it is, but obviously I've had issues with it my whole life, so it's not like I have to have sex and I'm like a nymphomaniac and sex, sex, sex, and so-it's not like that at all. It's like I'm looking for something from it, you know, I'm looking for.... And I think that, I think what I realized-I'm not sure if I'm right or not, though-is that because my father always had affairs, you know, and Cole was leaving, I think I felt like, he's leaving and if he doesn't want to be with me he's going to go find someone he wants to be with more, because that was what my father-I mean in the back of my mind I'm wondering if this is what makes me feel so insecure, like if he doesn't want me, if he's not physically attracted to me, he's going to go out and find it some place else. I mean, I think I have an issue with that. Even though consciously that's not what's going on, I think that that's what scares me. I mean, when I think deep into it, I'm scared, it gets built up and overwhelming because I feel like, okay, I must not be attractive, and he's going to go out and he's going to cheat, he's going to....
But then when he says, you know, I "Oh, you know, this is a mature relationship and it's not that important," but I don't believe that. I don't know whether I'm right or wrong, but I don't believe that. I think it is important. I think it's that if he's not attracted to me now, which he is-I mean, he says he is and I know he is-but I need to know it more, like I need to feel like he loves me and is more attracted to me than he ever has been to anybody else. I don't know, I mean, that's my insecurity, but that's what I'm looking for. And later in life, if he doesn't feel that way now, he's definitely going to, you know, want to str-that's just how I feel. I feel like it is important, I'm not sure whether I'm right or not, I'm not sure that's what I'm looking for from it. [0:12:46.2]
COUNSELOR: Lauren, let me just go back and let me ask you, what was your discomfort about talking to me about this?
PATIENT: I don't like talking about sex. I'm not comfortable with it.
COUNSELOR: Can you talk a little bit more about (inaudible at 0:13:03.1), like what the discomfort is?
PATIENT: I'm not sure. I mean, I'm much more comfortable than I used to be, I don't know. I think that-it's just, you know, it doesn't really scare me any more. It used to be a scary thing in my life. You know, I've been in.... I don't know. I know that there are times, like with my last boyfriend, where this has been the pattern also. Every relationship I'm in, I'm very like physically attracted to the person and my sex drive is high in the beginning, more normal or average, and then as the relationship goes on, I like lose complete interest. Where that has happened in the last two relationships I've had, and the person's like, "Is it me? Is it me?" and I'm like, "No, it's...."-and it's not really them, I don't think. Maybe it is, I don't know. I think it's me, though.
But there are times where I'll be like involved having sex with my boyfriend, or have in the past, where the only way I can really enjoy it, I take myself out of the situation, I pretend like either he's a stranger or I'm a stripper or I'm-you know? Like I remove Lauren from the situation, I like fantasize that it's a different situation, because I guess it's uncomfortable on some level for me to be in that type of relationship, of being sexually involved, and I don't know why, I really don't. But in the beginning, when I'm first involved with someone, that the like erotic and sensual and sexual side of me is there and I'm more comfortable with it, and allow myself to feel it, but it goes away, you know, it really, it like-I retreat, I don't-I have no idea why, I have no idea why this has always been such an issue. [0:15:05.9]
COUNSELOR: Can you identify what your feelings of discomfort were about when you brought it in here to talk to me about it? Maybe we can just start with that. What were your concerns or opinions that that brought up when you decided to talk to me about it?
PATIENT: Now I'm getting that blank, numb.... (laughs)
COUNSELOR: Numb?
PATIENT: Yeah.
COUNSELOR: (inaudible at 0:15:38.9)
PATIENT: I guess it's a self-defense mechanism when I-you know.
COUNSELOR: Is that what it feels like?
PATIENT: Yeah, I don't know why else I would just go blank and block everything, you know? And just....
COUNSELOR: Well, let's talk about how it's working. I want-I'm not too concerned about why I'm....
PATIENT: All right.
COUNSELOR: Just sort of this blank.
PATIENT: Well, if you ask me a question, yeah, that I guess I'm not comfortable with answering, it just suddenly-I lose focus, and it's like it's just me trying to figure out, okay, wait, wait, what am I thinking about? What am I trying-you know? And there's like a little tingly feeling, and like this little-like a-
COUNSELOR: I wonder if it has something to do with (inaudible at 0:16:24.5) my questions being a little controlling? Do you get that feeling?
PATIENT: No, not controlling. I mean, I feel like you're trying to help me figure out why I feel this way, and I'm-.
COUNSELOR: That doesn't (inaudible)?
PATIENT: No, that doesn't bother me. You mean the controlling (inaudible) of it?
COUNSELOR: Uh-huh. Because, you know, I know that you have your own way that you think might be helpful, which is just to sort of look at why or...
PATIENT: Right.
COUNSELOR: ...look at the past, and that's not the approach that I'm taking.
PATIENT: Right, I know.
COUNSELOR: And, you know, I wonder if that doesn't, you know, it doesn't make you feel like I'm just sort of taking what you're telling me and sort of going my own way with it, you know (inaudible at 0:17:11.0)?
PATIENT: No, but maybe I don't understand...maybe I don't understand what I'm going to get from it, not talking about.... But like I know I have to trust you. I don't know, maybe it's just.... How does talking about how I feel right now help?
COUNSELOR: Like, you know, as you were speaking before, clearly it's something that your sex-your problems with your sex life are something that you've had for a long time, and it's very complicated and tangled and it's just an immense area of difficulty. And one way that I think I can be of most use is just in helping to understand your feelings about, you know, yourself as a sexual person, your desires, how you feel about expressing (inaudible), and so I wanted to start with how it felt to talk to me about, you know, your sex life and....
PATIENT: Right, no, I- [0:18:23.2]
COUNSELOR: ...yourself as a sexual person.
PATIENT: Right.
COUNSELOR: And, you know, I think that, just as a starting point, would be helpful.
PATIENT: Right. And I'm not trying to go dumping-I'm trying to rebel against your approach, because I'm not (laughs), I'm just-
COUNSELOR: But what were you worried about what I saw when you answered my question?
PATIENT: Just now?
COUNSELOR: Uh-huh.
PATIENT: Well, I don't want you to think...I mean I certainly don't think I know more than you do and I don't want you to think that I'm-you know, like I'm open to whatever it is we have to do here, and you're the one that knows what we have to do, not me, really. So I don't want you to feel....
COUNSELOR: What were you worried that I felt?
PATIENT: (laughs) I guess...I guess that I'm being, you know, pushy and aggressive and...and...I don't know.
COUNSELOR: And what would happen if-
PATIENT: I don't-I wouldn't want to be that way.
COUNSELOR: (inaudible at 0:19:37.1)
PATIENT: I'm just-I don't think it's nice.
COUNSELOR: (inaudible) feel I might not like you?
PATIENT: Maybe. I mean, I don't think I'm particularly scared of people not liking me, but maybe I am, I don't know. Maybe I am. [0:20:01.2]
COUNSELOR: What's going on (inaudible)?
PATIENT: I don't know. I guess that's okay if I am, I just.... So that, well, obviously I've started thinking, well, that must mean that I really don't like myself, you know, I just analyze everything, so.... It seems like clearly that must be it, a problem I have now is, I'm trying to overcompensate in all these ways and make people like me (laughs), you know, like Cole said-spending money and, you know, that's so-I want to get back to that, though, but I don't know. When he said, you know, I'm trying to overcompensate with sex, I don't know if I believe him or not. And that-that's something that scares me because I don't trust that, I turn that into, he's minimizing the situation in order to make me feel better. But it doesn't, it makes me suspicious, you know, like, well, he's just saying that.
COUNSELOR: I feel a little lost because I feel like we kind of got into something here, and I noticed, you know, it was uncomfortable on my side, too, and I felt it was a little uncomfortable on yours, my asking you about what you were feeling and hearing you turn it on yourself. And I realize that you want to get back to what you want to talk about. I guess I'd like to sort of stay with-
PATIENT: Okay. (laughs)
COUNSELOR: What was that "okay"?
PATIENT: No, I don't have a problem with that.
COUNSELOR: You have feelings about that? About my request?
PATIENT: I guess...I guess I just don't understand it, and it makes me uncomfortable, I'm not sure why, because I don't think I have a problem relating to people one on one and dealing with my feelings that are right here, I don't think I do. That seems to be what's happening right now, right? [0:22:27.7]
COUNSELOR: I don't really know what's happening right now. I guess I get the feeling that you are concerned about, you know; how you seem to me, you know, appear to me. And I don't think there's anything wrong with that, I mean, that's how people are, you know, most people are like that. I just would sort of like to explore the feelings that are those concerns about how you look and how you appear to people. I think that might be useful to sort of go into those feelings a bit more and find out what they're about. So I just really wanted to stay there, you know. It's sort of lost at this point, but that's sort of why I keep, you know, sort of putting my thermometer in and taking your temperature feeling-wise.
PATIENT: I feel it's like it's a game, I don't know why. I think it bothers me a little.
COUNSELOR: Okay, can you talk some more about that, please?
PATIENT: I guess I feel like I'm kind of being manipulated. It feels contrived, it doesn't feel natural just to.... And I guess it's not. But to talk about, you know, every single feeling that comes up that doesn't seem like it has substance necessarily-but I guess it does. It just feels really uncomfortable.
COUNSELOR: You said, a game.
PATIENT: Yeah.
COUNSELOR: How is it like a game?
PATIENT: I feel like-I don't know-I'm being tested for something and I can't figure it out, and that bothers me. It's funny because I feel like I'm so willing to talk about anything, you know? But then when you're asking me to talk about something specific and I'm really uncomfortable. [0:24:46.1]
(Phone starts ringing.)
COUNSELOR: I think that's going to ring four times...
PATIENT: Okay.
COUNSELOR: ...and stop.
PATIENT: It's just; I don't understand it so it makes me uncomfortable.
COUNSELOR: You said something about being tested. Can you talk more about that, the feeling that you're being tested?
PATIENT: I feel like you're trying to figure something out and I don't know what you're trying to figure out.
COUNSELOR: Do you have-?
PATIENT: Maybe I'm scared I'll say the wrong thing, I don't know, you know? Do I have what?
COUNSELOR: I was wondering if you have something that you'd kind of like to ask me, or tell me your feelings? Ask me about the therapy, or tell me about the therapy? Maybe that you don't like this or-
PATIENT: I just-I don't understand it. I mean, I'm willing-I feel like-I want to say I'm willing to play the game, but I don't understand it. But maybe I don't have to understand it.
COUNSELOR: I'm not so clear on the game part of it, or the testing part. Can you elaborate a little bit for me? I'm not quite sure I understand that part of it. How is it that it feels like a game (inaudible at 0:26:16.9)?
PATIENT: Even just now, when you ask me that, I don't know, it just feels like, why are you asking me these questions? I don't understand them. I feel like.... It's just really uncomfortable.
COUNSELOR: How does that feel, to tell me that?
PATIENT: It's...it's...I don't know. I was going to say, it's scary. I don't know if it was scary, it's-
COUNSELOR: (inaudible at 0:26:56.5) What makes it scary?
PATIENT: I don't know.
COUNSELOR: (inaudible)
PATIENT: I don't understand them.
COUNSELOR: And how do you feel about not understanding them?
PATIENT: Well, what does that mean? Does that mean that I'm right or I'm wrong or it's not going to work or...? Part of me is, so are you going to kick me out of the program? You know what I mean? (laughs) I mean, there is definitely that, too. I mean, I guess that's.... [0:28:03.9]
COUNSELOR: But you (inaudible)?
PATIENT: Yeah.
COUNSELOR: (inaudible)
PATIENT: Yes. (laughs)
COUNSELOR: Why are you smiling (inaudible)?
PATIENT: I don't know.
COUNSELOR: Why are you smiling?
PATIENT: It's just-I don't know, it's funny.
COUNSELOR: Why is it funny?
PATIENT: I don't know, I feel so funny right now. But silly-I guess I feel silly.
COUNSELOR: I feel funny, too.
PATIENT: You do?
COUNSELOR: Yeah. (inaudible at 0:28:46.6) a funny thing, to try to talk so directly.
PATIENT: But is that what you need to do? I mean, is that what you need me to do? Is that what we're trying to do?
(Drilling noise starts.)
COUNSELOR: I think I do. I think the way I work, I do need to try to (inaudible). There's some connection I have to (inaudible), some connection I have to your feelings, even if I'm not quite sure what they are, and I keep asking what they are. That gives me more information about you, but then also if I can share it with you, into something you can use, (inaudible).
PATIENT: I was just-is that drilling bothering you at all? It's really.... (gives a little scream) Nothing, I'm just.... Like okay, I understand that, so I (inaudible).... (laughs) [0:30:06.2]
COUNSELOR: Let's just get out of this uncomfortable (inaudible).
PATIENT: (laughs) No, but where is it leading? I mean, okay, I understand I have to be direct with you, right?
COUNSELOR: Well, you know, it works two ways.
PATIENT: Yeah.
COUNSELOR: I'm not expecting you to be any one way in here. When you said, "I need to be direct with you," what were you thinking, what were you thinking that you should do?
PATIENT: I guess I'm just trying to say what I think I'm supposed to say, you know, or what you want to hear. I mean, I don't know, I really don't know.
COUNSELOR: That sounds really uncomfortable.
PATIENT: It's not.... I'm not doing it on purpose, but I guess I still feel like, okay, if I get that part right... (laughs) You know?
COUNSELOR: There's again that thing about needing to do it right, to do it the right way in here.
PATIENT: But I didn't come in feeling that way.
COUNSELOR: Right. So there's something about what's happening here that made you start to feel that way?
PATIENT: Mm-hmm.
COUNSELOR: (inaudible at 0:31:45.1)
PATIENT: I feel like I'm still waiting for what you're going to say next, you know.
COUNSELOR: You're waiting for (inaudible)?
PATIENT: Mm-hmm.
COUNSELOR AND PATIENT: (laugh)
COUNSELOR: Now I feel like I'm being tested.
COUNSELOR AND PATIENT: (laugh)
PATIENT: Sorry.
COUNSELOR: That's all right. We're just getting to know each other.
PATIENT: Can you tell me what ultimately is supposed to happen after six months of this? Am I just supposed to learn a little bit more about myself, I mean, you know?
COUNSELOR: Well, I'll answer your question. I just want to know what you want to get out of it, what you want-where you'd like to be in six months. [0:32:44.8]
PATIENT: I'd like to understand the feelings I have that don't make any sense to me, and, I mean, I guess that's what-when you ask me to explore my feelings, I understand that, okay, then we can figure out, you know, by-learn my feelings from talking about them, maybe where they're coming from and what ultimately they mean, which is great. That's why I guess I get confused when I feel like we go off on these sidetracks about "Well, what are you feeling in regards to this and that?" and that doesn't truly make sense to me. Like what I want to do is figure out, you know, where these feelings come from so I can let them go, and because they're feelings that inhibit my life and I don't want them, I want to understand them and work them out and let them go. And I know the issues that they surround, sex and money and love, you know? But I don't know why I have them.
COUNSELOR: Okay. But the approach that (leans) (ph) in this therapy is less focused on, you know, why...
PATIENT: Right, I know.
COUNSELOR: ...the feelings that you have to deal with but rather how appearances unfold, what the feelings are, and a focus on getting you more in touch with the feelings in here, the idea that you have a (inaudible at 0:34:20.3) out there to (inaudible).
PATIENT: Right. And then what happens when you get in touch with your feelings? You work them out? You understand them because you're in touch with them?
COUNSELOR: I think there's an acceptance that comes with really feeling your feelings and feeling them to be a part of yourself. That's my understanding of the theory. For instance, I'm not quite clear about everything that was going on (inaudible) and there is certainly a lot going on with me, too (inaudible). But one thing I think is part of it was your feeling that somehow you were doing this wrong, that you weren't giving me the right things to work with, and that feeling-I'm guessing now-probably happens in other relationships, so that you're always like trying to figure out, well, am I doing this right? Am I the right way to be, you know? [0:35:39.6]
PATIENT: When I feel like I'm not accepted, yeah, I feel that way. And I feel like I-I trust my feelings a lot because when I'm not in a situation-and you're right, you're right, because if I feel safe and accepted, then I don't question how I feel or what I need, I think I'm really very capable of giving a lot, of understanding a lot, and I'm not scared, deep down I don't think that someone's not going to love me and respect me and want me for who I am, deep down. But I do have these feelings, like you're right, because I question-you know, even with Brian, too, I mean-
COUNSELOR: Right.
PATIENT: Like with the sex, which I don't understand it and I don't feel accepted, so then I want to make-then I want to figure it out and....
COUNSELOR: Right. And then you start to doubt your own...
PATIENT: Right.
COUNSELOR: ...you know, needs or desires for sex. That (inaudible at 0:36:38.0) like you're questioning them rather than sort of accepting them. (inaudible)
PATIENT: Right. The same thing with you, you know?
COUNSELOR: Yeah, am I the right way? Am I going to get kicked out here?
PATIENT: Right. And then I feel like I do, I guess I do try to compensate when-I don't know. Why do I do that because-why do I need to be completely accepted by everybody, you know? I don't, I shouldn't have to need that.
COUNSELOR: What did you just do then?
PATIENT: I went and thought, well, maybe it's because my parents didn't accept me when I was younger. (laughs) Really made me a bitch. So then I thought, well, that's not what I'm here to talk about, so I just....
COUNSELOR: That's not what you're here to talk about?
PATIENT: Well, I'm not here to talk about why, right? So.... I thought about it and I put it aside.
COUNSELOR: But there's some anger there about your...
PATIENT: Yes.
COUNSELOR: ...towards your parents?
PATIENT: Yes. (laughs) There is, absolutely. [0:37:50.5]
COUNSELOR: But you don't feel you were right to be angry? That's not the way to be?
PATIENT: It's funny, because when I talk about my relationship with my parents with Cole it's always that I'll say something negative and I'll say, "But I know they love me, but-but-but-but," you know? Like I'll always have an aside for "Yeah, like, but it's okay because...." Right, I guess I feel like it's not okay to be. I know it is okay to be angry at times. And of course now I'm thinking, but I don't blame them, they're who they are, you know? Yeah, I always have to have an excuse for them. But-
COUNSELOR: Yeah, I know. I have this image in my mind of inner feelings, and then all this shit (inaudible at 0:38:38.1)...
COUNSELOR AND PATIENT: (laugh)
COUNSELOR: ...things you have to go through to express them, yeah, it's just shit, you know, this-(defecations) (ph) and....
PATIENT: Yeah, I don't know why, though, because I'm not-like I said, I'm so willing to talk about my feelings and explore them, you know.
COUNSELOR: You are.
PATIENT: You would think I would get somewhere, you know. Or get through the shit.
COUNSELOR: No, I see that in your (ideal) (ph) a real wish to be open and a (heart-to-heart) (ph) (inaudible at 0:39:17.0). That's very true.
PATIENT: I mean, I dump it on everybody, I do, I mean, anybody who'll listen to me, I'll talk to my problems about, really.
COUNSELOR: (inaudible)
PATIENT: Mm-hmm, but (inaudible). I don't think I should talk to everybody about everything that I feel (laughs), you know, because it can be scary and it can be a turn-off and, you know? And I don't mind listening to other people's shit, but ta-ta-da.
COUNSELOR: What's going on now?
PATIENT: I think we should probably get back to talking about my parents. (laughs) [0:40:00.7]
COUNSELOR: Do you want to?
PATIENT: Yeah, because I really-it really brings the feeling of anger up.
COUNSELOR: Can you talk about the anger?
PATIENT: It's very-it's a dull feeling, like.... It's there, it's definitely there, you know, like you can hear it in my voice, but it still doesn't.... Like I don't-I guess I don't want it to come up because it's like-it's there and I'm accepting that it's there, but I guess I'm not comfortable with fully expressing it. And that's a big thing with me. I do not ever express anger, ever, I really don't. I don't deal with things that anger, and maybe that's the problem. I don't ever, ever expr-I told you, I keep saying this to people lately, so like that even when I was raped, I never got mad about it, ever. I felt sad, but I never got mad. And I should've, I think I should've, I mean, I think that would've been normal.
COUNSELOR: Why do you think that's (inaudible at 0:41:04.8)?
PATIENT: I don't know. But I didn't get mad at Harold when he gave me genital warts. I felt mad, I mean, I felt betrayed and lied to and cheated on, but I didn't-I just dealt with it, I just deal with things, and I've always thought that that was a positive quality, I mean, I just-I don't think that anger is necessarily productive. But I guess in some ways it can be. I just-I work through things, I talk through things, I'm calm, I don't get mad or yell and scream. If I-you know, I can argue with people if I don't-you know, it's not like I won't express my opinions or, you know, talk about something that bothers me. But I don't yell and scream and I don't get angry.
COUNSELOR: But you feel angry. I mean you feel...
PATIENT: Yeah.
COUNSELOR: ...some anger.
PATIENT: Yeah. But I'm not in touch with those feelings of anger at all. Like I said, you know, you started talking about my parents and, yeah, I feel a little bit of anger and I know, I guess it's in there, but I don't-it's like I won't let it come up, and I don't know why, I have no idea. I mean, my parents never really-I mean (maybe because my sister is a counselor, I don't know, but no one in my family like yells and screams, and everybody talks at-you know what I mean? You know, my mother gets mad at my father sometimes, she'll yell. Rarely, rarely, you know, when they're arguing, he'll yell back, you know-rarely. So I don't know whether it's something I was taught or what, but I just don't. My whole life, I don't remember like ever experiencing lots of anger, or anger towards specific situations. Guilt. I turn everything around, yeah, and put it on myself. [0:42:53.4]
COUNSELOR: You know, I looked at the clock and we have to end, but one thing I just want to throw out is, when we were talking earlier and it was getting uncomfortable, I don't know if you want to speak about this, but I sensed that you were feeling sort of angry at me when I asked you-you know, at one point you said scared-and I was thinking, I wondered if that's just because she's feeling angry and she feels like she might express it and push me away even more, I don't know. But, you know, that might just be one thing to think about.
PATIENT: Yeah.
COUNSELOR: Then maybe we can experience it again.
PATIENT: Oh, yay.
COUNSELOR AND PATIENT: (laugh)
COUNSELOR: One more thing is that I'm going to be on vacation between Christmas and New Year's, so I'm going to be away.
PATIENT: And I'm going to be away next week, which I was going to tell you.
COUNSELOR: Oh, okay. And then the 2nd, they're closed for the holiday (inaudible at 0:43:57.2), so I wouldn't want to meet then. So let's make a-
PATIENT: Actually I'm not leaving till Friday morning, now that I think about it.
COUNSELOR: Oh, good.
PATIENT: So I'm not going to be-but I'll be away the following week.
COUNSELOR: Okay.
PATIENT: But you will, too.
COUNSELOR: I will, too. And then the Monday....
PATIENT: Should I get my book?
COUNSELOR: Yeah, let's do that.
PATIENT: Do you need a book, too?
COUNSELOR: No. (inaudible) [0:44:21.3]
END TRANSCRIPT
