TRANSCRIPT OF AUDIO FILE:
______________________________________________________________________________
BEGIN TRANSCRIPT:
CLIENT: So the last few weeks or so have been frankly scary, and I have some ideas about what precipitated it. But the main thing is that (pause) I can't work. I can't like—- or I'm having trouble, sort of. The executive function has been pretty grossly impaired. I've talked about it, I guess, with an increasing sense of concern and anxiety but at this point, there are just things that have just been completely undone, unhandled, for three or four weeks in a way that seems different somehow. 
[01:22.5]
Maybe it's just more of the same, but I feel real intense concern, anxiety, uncertainty. My sleep is very disrupted. I'm sleeping relatively little, in a way that is very very familiar, like a pattern. And what happened last night was interesting, it was classic, and it was actually something that I talked about with my friend last week, which is that—- it sounds funny, except that it's such a distinct and distinctive feeling.
[02:07.1]
I get this tightness and discomfort in my legs. It's not quite a muscle spasm. It doesn't hurt. It's uncomfortable. I feel sort of not in control of my legs, and my understanding of it has ranged from a kind of metaphorical "this is the moment when I want to leave" to the kind of quasi-physiological, as if, you know, there's something associated with elevated blood pressure which must frankly be kind of through the roof. Between one thing and another, I just feel the recrudescence of something that has happened many many times, and has really disrupted my life in a very difficult and profound way.
[03:03.9]
At this point, I recognize it so clearly but I'm not sure how to intervene. (pause) I don't know how to intervene. So this characteristic, which may be something I often feel and was just kind of aware of the first time last night, perhaps it's not as if I hadn't felt it since the last time this happened. Only that I was focusing on it because we had talked about it, my friend and I, who was with me in Holland, you know, when I did something similar and came back to the US.
[03:56.8]
Another feature is—- and it's hard for me to differentiate cause and effect a little bit, so this is kind of my provisional understanding—- but really really depressed impulse control which I guess, in some ways, is the whole thing. I can't say like "this is the task to do, go to it." Anything but comes to the fore—- like when I'm on the computer, I'll fuck around with filing files, or I'll fuck around with a game, or I'll fuck around with this kind of repetitive behavior, refreshing the same website again and again and again, looking for some kind of novelty, something that will, I don't know, interrupt this sense of stasis. 
[04:57.7]
At some level, I think that's what it is, just looking for some kind of change and not really knowing how to—- there's a state of high anxiety and I want to interrupt it, but at some level I don't have the tools to do so. (pause) So I'm really concerned. There are things that I need to deliver, you know, to sort of preserve everyday working relationships. There are administrative tasks that I need to do. Supposedly I was going to go to Africa next week, but I, you know—- I can't go in this state. And especially if the work isn't done, there's no point in going.
[05:54.6]
And I feel that I'm being erratic, and I don't want to make that public. And I don't want, you know, when I'm traveling and I'm this sort of out of it, you know, bad things can happen. You miss flights. You're kind of exposed when you're traveling. At any rate, I'm feeling a lot of anxiety in this state about even thinking about leaving the country, let alone on a work trip. (pause) In addition to which my mother thinks I haven't gotten the ticket yet. (pause) 
[06:48.8]
My reconstruction, for better or worse, is that there are two things going on that kind of triggered this. Number one is my need to be more visible and sort of responsible pro-radically [ph] and my reluctance to do so, especially when it seemed as if it was kind of by default. Phil just wanted to get out. The second thing is Phil announcing he was leaving which, for better or worse, is right now kind of the sum of my workplace relationship. And then, you know, at another level it's just the fact that the situation is not regular, and I'm not sure how to regularize it. So these things seem to be very troubling (a) in the sense that I don't really have a place, (b) that I'm being asked to do things that feel like too much, and (c) this very familiar sense that I'm being abandoned or left. 
[07:57.2]
So, I don't know, I feel like that's a pretty plausible analysis. It seems consistent with the previous instances in which this has happened. And I guess at this point, the question in the short-term sense is what I'm going to do about it. I suspect that it's not irretrievable. It's not great, but it's not the end of the world, and yet I don't really know how to intervene. I know enough at this point that I can see that intervention is warranted, but I'm not exactly sure [how to intervene]. And, I don't know, I mean—- (chuckle) (pause) since I live with the migraine issue on a daily basis, I'm empathetic and it was totally understandable to cancel our session. But when I arrived on Monday, I was really in a very difficult state, and the last two days have been rough. 
[09:11.4]
THERAPIST: Tell me.
CLIENT: The last two days have been rough. Well, it's like I have known what's going on since the weekend and have been able to see it very clearly, but I haven't been able to do anything. So I've been completely engulfed by this state for the last 48 hours or so. 
THERAPIST: Yeah, and like part of what you're saying there is that although on one hand, in a way, I was not being unreasonable—- 
CLIENT: No, I wasn't—- 
THERAPIST: On another hand, it was another abandonment at a moment of some crisis, when it really would have made a difference to have not been abandoned, at the very least. And it could have been helpful to really have a talk.
[10:10.4]
CLIENT: Yep. Yep. So—- 
THERAPIST: Is there more you can say about—-
CLIENT: Is there more I can say about what?
THERAPIST: About that. About my abandoning you. I'm not asking because I don't think you get it on some kind of intellectual level. I'm asking because I think the feelings it stirs up are the feelings we're talking about across the board. Being kind of more in touch with those, I think—- 
[11:02.6]
CLIENT: I can tell you what—- I mean, I can try to narrate my immediate reaction which was something along the lines of "Okay, well that makes sense. It's not going to be a very useful conversation." I've been with Jennie [ph] when she's in this state, and so I have some intimacy with it. I think another reaction was something along the lines of "Well, you know, [inaudible] has been teaching with this"—- she started getting it, I think, in 2007—- "she's been teaching with this for four years as adjunct faculty getting $25,000 a year, and she does it every time. Every time she does it." So I think that was a train of thought. 
[12:02.4]
I had come with the check for half of the outstanding balance, you know, so I think that strikes me as a kind of annoyed reaction, more than a sense of despair of the sort that you're describing. I wasn't consciously in touch with what you're talking about. But that was clearly there. So I don't really know how to narrate it. But, you know, I felt really worried. I feel very worried. This is a pattern that has been so destructive to my life, and this happens at this point so many times.
[12:59.0]
And just to be in a situation where, you know, I had really at exactly the moment when it was happening this time, for the first time I was in a position to talk to somebody who could give me some counsel about it and not to have that person available at this moment, I think was—- it made me feel a little hopeless. It made me feel hopeless. It made me as if there really wasn't an intervention to be made. It was nothing to do about if I felt—- I felt a little desperate, I guess. This is a narration, it's not really in touch with it, but I can sense the contours of it. (pause)
[14:00.6]
I think one of the things that is interfering possibly with my ability to access it, at least in the moment, is probably the recording.
THERAPIST: Oh. Is that making you self-conscious?
CLIENT: (pause) Well, it's interesting actually, because what it's really doing is replicating another consistent feature of this pattern, which is that it's much much worse when I'm alone. When I'm engaging with another person, when somebody is front and center, when I can kind of sense their presence or physicality or interaction in conversation, it doesn't really assert itself as strongly. It's rare that I'll be in a conversation and I'll feel this feeling, and so I think over the last few months we've succeeded in exempting, to some degree, our conversation from that pattern. But it's being reinforced by the sense of observation. So in that sense, I guess, it's interesting. It doesn't offer a kind of—- 
[15:12.3]
THERAPIST: So maybe you'd prefer I shut it and start—- 
CLIENT: I don't know. At the moment I'm finding it interesting. I don't find it bad, but it is a confounder in here. (long pause) 
[16:33.3]
THERAPIST: [If I were to say] there is a distinct element of blaming the victim, that would be you. I'm prequalifying a little bit. I'm qualifying what I'm going to say. Certainly, recording like this for the first time makes you feel self-conscious and maybe a little more controlled. And certainly your being in a particularly bad way and feeling like you'll be bringing that into the room, sort of to a new extent, and have me bail on you after you already get here, you know, is a number of things. 
[17:50.7]
Frustrating. Abandonment. Annoying. I also understand (inaudible at 17:55.2). So I'm aware of those things. But I'm going to put them aside for a minute because I suspect it's something else that's going on. Some real misgiving on your part about being in that sort of more open or messy or vulnerable, upset, anxious way.
[18:51.4]
I mean, to sort of (inaudible), that sucks. Like at this moment, this is really bad. These two things that happened that same week that kind of get in the way of your being able to just put it out there, you know? 
CLIENT: Two things?
THERAPIST: My missing Monday and the recording today.
CLIENT: Oh. Maybe.
THERAPIST: But then I think maybe this is something that doesn't entirely want to get put out there in the first place, [but that's really—-] 
CLIENT: I mean, they move in different directions, don't they? One of them, you know, enforces a lack of disclosure, and the other of them enforces [and accesses] disclosure.
[19:55.3]
THERAPIST: Maybe I misunderstand. I thought both of them enforced a lack of disclosure.
CLIENT: Oh, I see what you're saying. Well, one of them involves surveillance and the other of them involves the absence of surveillance. 
THERAPIST: Right, right. They're both getting in the way of your being able to—- 
CLIENT: To come clean, so to speak. (pause) But I don't know. I mean, look, it's evident to me at least the kind of translation in my head of this anxiety is intense concern about observation and disclosure and surveillance. There's some—- this is a very recurring theme. When I feel as if I'm not doing what I need to be doing, you know, there's an embodiment of that kind of, you know, there's an embodiment of that critique. 
[21:12.3]
You know, it's put into the mouth of another person. I'm looking for a non-jargony way of talking about this. So, you know, that sense of observation and concern with observation when I do it, it's because somebody has intervened and told me so. And yet I take extraordinary steps, like not checking e-mail even, to avoid that reckoning to the point where the avoidant behavior itself is a problem in its own right. So I haven't checked one e-mail account in over a week because I'm expecting or fearing or sensing the possibility of somebody saying "Okay, well where is it? Where is what you haven't been doing for the last two and a half weeks?" (pause)
[22:09.6]
And my sense is that, you know, that the sense of observation, the anxiety about observation, has actually, you know, created the problem to begin with in some sense. It's more difficult. The kind of self-reinforcing behaviors that I'm worried about were themselves provoked by a sense or a concern or anxiety about observation to begin with. So in that sense, you know, as I said a moment ago, I'm kind of interested by being observed by this inanimate object four feet to my right. It actually seems potentially useful. It's like a device. It's like a dramatic prop or or something, you know.
[23:09.0]
I don't know. I mean, I guess I didn't feel oppressed by that or disturbed by that. I didn't feel a sense of despair about that. You know, the fact that we couldn't meet on Monday I did feel some despair about. But I'm not sure it's in the same category. 
THERAPIST: I see.
CLIENT: (pause) They're almost polar opposites in a way. You know, like not meeting with you was kind of the universe enforcing this avoidance. This seems like an intensification of the reckoning.
THERAPIST: (chuckles) Could be.
[24:06.2]
CLIENT: But neither of those entirely [I feel safe], so to that extent—- (long pause) 
[26:43.5]
THERAPIST: Yeah, I guess what I'm thinking about is the way that perhaps the kind of attention to and worries about being observed are maybe in part a way of coping with feeling alone. (pause)
[27:43.4]
CLIENT: Yeah, well, cause and effect are difficult to unravel. (pause) You know, when I'm like this I isolate myself. I wouldn't quite call it "deliberately," but certainly the initiative comes from my side. (pause) So, I mean, it's interesting what was in my head as we were waiting for your thoughts to percolate was two thoughts really, I guess. One of them was that I've often wanted a transcript of our discussions.
[28:51.5]
You know, an exact and complete recollection of everything that passed between us. In some ways, this is like the ultimate realization (chuckles) of my concern that something will be lost. You know, so this complete, mechanical, comprehensive observation is the ultimate solution to my fears about losing the thread. And, you know, when you juxtapose your thought and my thought, that's kind of interesting, actually. Just the constant feeling of being observed as some kind of weird wish fulfillment. It's as if this external observer, you know, provides a continuity that I don't feel like I otherwise have.
[29:57.3]
And the other thought, I'm not sure how relevant it is, except just in the way of cataloging what I think are the precipitating factors in creating this state of anxiety. You know, there's some basis in reality for this sense that this situation isn't really tenable. When I'm worried about taking a leadership role or worried about being out there, being exposed, it's partly because my sense is that the program really doesn't work. That it's structurally unsound, that there was not adequate institutional support for it, and so on. And a sense of needing to intervene, being straddling different things in a way that's not tenable, that can't really being sustained, but not really knowing how to move on, in what direction to move. 
[31:08.1]
Really not knowing exactly, having come to that realization or feeling, whether it's an accurate and an appropriate analysis or not, what to do next. Not really knowing what the next step is. Naturally you're going to be kind of paralyzed once you realize that the old regime is not functional, but not really knowing what the new one is. Not really knowing which direction to strike out in. So, you know, to the extent that this is about paralysis, a paralysis of the executive function, it's not just that I feel a sense of abandonment. It's not just that I feel anxiety about being out in public and on top of things, although that's clearly part of it. There's also a kind of rational assessment that really this doesn't work and not quite knowing, or being able to take the next step, which is to move in some new direction. 
[32:23.0]
THERAPIST: Although your reactions are at two very different levels—- 
CLIENT: [Absolutely].
THERAPIST: I mean, on one hand, the kind of, as you say, of course you're concerned about the viability of the program and unclear about what you do next, and that's scary and exciting and paralyzing. But at another level, when the reaction is not being able to actually do the work that's in front of you at the moment and just being too worried to check an e-mail account, I mean that's sort of a different type of—- (long pause) 
[35:30.6]
I think a lot of what you're communicating is also geared towards making it clear to me how profoundly scary and disturbing the abandonments can be. Like I think you're really worried I won't get that. 
CLIENT: Why do you think that? Why do you think I'm worried that you won't get it? What leads you to wonder about that? (pause)
[36:41.7]
THERAPIST: Well, I think your sort of more explicit conscious worry is "Damn it, I really feel like I fucked up at work."
CLIENT: Sure.
THERAPIST: But I think there's something about the desperation and fear you feel about that.
CLIENT: I don't worry that you won't get it. I'm worried that there won't be any result. I mean, what I'm conscious of being worried about, at least, is that it will happen again and the result will be the same. I don't know. I think the dilemma is pretty clear. The pattern is certainly clear and consistent with other episodes of this sort that we've talked about. 
[37:39.9]
In terms of being worried about you getting a sense of the despair I feel, I don't think it would be possible not to get a sense of that. I don't fear that at all. Unless maybe I'm misunderstanding what you're saying.
THERAPIST: Maybe I'm just not being clear. (pause) I need to put it another way. (pause) I think you're feeling that you kind of—- [it's a little of what I figured out a while ago]—- sort of want to make—- you're kind of "there has to be something we can do about this."
[38:45.2]
CLIENT: Yes. That is definitely true. I'm worried that we won't be able to intervene. I'm worried that I'll tell you these things and no practical outcome will result.
THERAPIST: Right.
CLIENT: No question about that. I'm very concerned about this.
THERAPIST: Right. I think that in a way, it's really more a fear of being left alone with it. 
CLIENT: Sure.
THERAPIST: So I would know that in a way that would be something different. I think those are kind of—- 
CLIENT: Yeah, I don't know. (pause) Yeah, I can see that. You know, I have concern or worry or what have-you that—- 
THERAPIST: My point is that's the potential abandonment.
CLIENT: Okay.
[39:47.3]
THERAPIST: Like (inaudible).
CLIENT: I can see that. Okay, so here's our research option.
THERAPIST: Right. We'll stop in a minute, but there is one pressing scheduling thing which is I don't have a lot of flexibility, but I do have a couple of times tomorrow. I don't know what your schedule looks like.
CLIENT: Tomorrow. When?
THERAPIST: They're sort of—- well, I could only do 9:15 or 10:30.
CLIENT: I think it would be good. I think it would be good if we could do that.
THERAPIST: Okay, good. I'm glad that works. So 9:15?
CLIENT: Yeah. It may be that I double-check and that I would e-mail you within the hour or so.
THERAPIST: Yeah. Just keep me posted. Sure.
[40:51.1]
CLIENT: Okay. I have my checkbook and a pen. How should we do this? I have in my account for the next two weeks, I have enough to pay you and to pay rent.
THERAPIST: Okay.
CLIENT: So if it's okay to do like—- there's $4,600 I think. I haven't looked at your bill. If it's okay to do like $1,750 now and the balance at the end of September it sure would be great.
END TRANSCRIPT
