Transcript of Audio File:
______________________________________________________________________________
BEGIN TRANSCRIPT:
CLIENT: So getting to the conference what ended up being this 24 cluster fuck of travel delays. You know I'm in here. I can't get there. They're like you can fly through LaGuardia tomorrow morning at 6:00 a.m. and you still can't get to [inaudible]. You can get here and then take a bus. And the bus is delayed and like - it unfortunately left me effectively missed a day and a half of the weekend. I was supposed to arrive on Thursday. I arrived Friday at 3:00 and then Saturday it was like its time to eat and pass out tomorrow which was really frustrating because... So Friday, Saturday, and Sunday night there are parties and the only party attended was the one I was throwing which ended up being really exhausting for other reasons. And I don't know. It was hard like I really wanted to spend smaller group time with people. Like last year I tried to have dinner with myself, my aunt, and three people and it turned into 15. [00:02:09]
THERAPIST: Which?
CLIENT: I'm like oh no. I did manage to avoid that. I think I kept all my meals below eleven people which was good. But I also have these two kind of weird... Well there's one real anxiety issue that I was worried about beforehand which was this girl, Laura, who used to live here was going to be at the conference (inaudible at 00:02:49). And so Laura... It's weird because I can remember like Elizabeth she used to live like five minutes away from me. And then she moved in actually with a friend of mine and not very far. You know a 20 minute bus ride. [00:03:10]
And we used to see each other I expect pretty rarely. We had some interesting TV shows we'd watch together and various things. I helped her get a job at one time. But Laura was also like just very poorly socialized (inaudible at 00:03:33) in a certain way. Her mother was developmentally disabled, kind of unclear how much, but mentally she was maybe in fifth grade. And her mother's family were very much in denial about it and trying to hide that and had actually prevented her mother from being involved. She was sterilized at one point because that's what they were doing. [00:04:13]
So Laura's father married her mother because he had either one or two existing kids and he needed another wife to take care of the kids. And so Laura's parents were someone who was a fifth grader and her father was a lot older, very (inaudible at 00:04:39), very - I don't know - not super expressive I guess. And she knew her mother was mentally disabled I think probably around the time she was in fifth or sixth grade when she was like my mom has never... I am now emotionally and mentally beyond my mom so it's like there's all these weird things. And her mom was quite heavy and at the time Laura was very skinny. So she would periodically dump weird mom anxiety on to me which is...[00:05:30]
Like periodically she would just sort of oh you're so fat. You remind me of my mom. I was like I'm not sure this is related. It was such a weird statement. Okay, your mom... And then she'd be like oh it's so great that you're really positive and then you shouldn't wear that like you're too fat to wear that. So it would be these really...
THERAPIST: Conflicting.
CLIENT: And just kind of things that people usually don't say out loud. So she got into grad school. And in leaving town... Actually it burned all her bridges. In retrospect I think she didn't know how to say goodbye like it made her feel uncomfortable so she just pissed off everyone. And she'd just taken advantage of me and some other people financially when she was out of work. I think I'd mentioned that a little bit. [00:06:40]
THERAPIST: Not the back story I don't think but about her life.
CLIENT: It's a weird thing like I have a lot of compassion. You know when she was here her father was (inaudible at 00:06:56) and he was quite a bit older. He was having neuropathy problems. Her half brothers and half brother's wife were kind of using his - they were kind of painted as if they were a little dodgy like the brother's wife had tripped and fallen on his property and was trying to claim all these damages from him in this weird way. She didn't actually go to court but she threatened to and he gave her money, and she asked for me, and it was this... I just remember Laura saying are they just going to take all his money. They thought they had a lot because he was an elderly guy. [00:07:52]
But it was really rough. And a couple years after she left and my grandfather passed away. It was really horrible, etcetera, etcetera, etcetera. So she left and basically everybody was like fuck you. She goes down to New York to hang out with the New York fan girls. They're all friends of mine as well. Pissed them all off within a year which was amazing. Even the really relaxed mellow ones were like nah. And so all that happened. She inherited money from her father, didn't pay taxes on it for some reasons. They didn't have any taxes. She's like I have all this money. I'm going to buy crap. I had no money and all this craziness. [00:08:55]
And at one point I was like you know what I just don't want to deal with you anymore. I did the twentieth century (inaudible at 00:09:05) on social networks. And she sent me this e-mail going why. So I saw people I knew being here. One of them gave her a couple hundred dollars for some utilities they hadn't shut off. And I was just like... She could've changed in the years but it's been very weird. (inaudible at 00:09:48) and although no one ever wants to hear that back and forth. And (inaudible at 00:09:57) and so I had this moment of at the (inaudible at 00:10:06) people are always hanging out in the lobby. [00:10:10]
Lucy's like you that's where you need to go for your meals, just hang out, or whatever. So I can squeeze through a crowd in 20 minutes. And I just saw her out of focus. She's sitting next to this other girl Karen and Karen said hey you should come over, have dinner, maybe her too. And I'm like no. I felt so... I was like no I don't want Laura to come to dinner. And also something about me not having my friends with me I just had this I'm unpopular, I'm a loser, I don't have any friends. I don't even know. It was really weird. It was kind of the weird feel of being in high school and college and walking into the dining hall and be like who am I going to sit with. I felt that even though I had plans with eight people... It's because this woman, Karen, she's someone who - she's the reason that this (inaudible at 00:11:25) because she's always... [00:11:30]
THERAPIST: I see.
CLIENT: Yeah. Like A, she has a tendency to jump onto other people's meals and then B, she'll pull other people in. And it was weird. I really felt like I really wanted my friends with me. And so I texted one of my friends and I'm like can you come down to the lobby nowish please? I'll be over here. And when Jill came down I felt okay because there was a... [00:12:11]
It was one of those things where I'd talk to people about it beforehand and they were all like if there were to be a showdown but not a showdown - but in terms of who knows people at the convention has been there longer, and knows people I'd win the bigger game of life. That makes me feel really in control. I have a hard time with the concept of being popular and also (inaudible at 00:13:06) all that just felt very weird and uncomfortable. And also I really didn't want her to ask why did you defriend me? And I was also not really wanting to say dear (inaudible at 00:13:29), dear so-and-so. [00:13:32]
THERAPIST: Who?
CLIENT: There were two people who were local people and I just didn't want to say to them PS I refuse to have to know this person because... She did end up actually walking off on her own which surprised me because she's kind of dubious. I wanted to just have the drama queen fit.
THERAPIST: I see.
CLIENT: But didn't. And then actually two other people that I wanted to talk to sort of asked me so Laura what's up? And I told them. And I didn't realize quite how much it still irks me. So I really thought (inaudible at 00:14:29). Sorry. I just want to mention that. It sounds like I have no emotion. Oh well. [00:14:40]
THERAPIST: Thank you for the heads up.
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: I guess I have thought otherwise I probably would've said something because you also might be frustrated because I was late.
CLIENT: No.
THERAPIST: But that's also the kind of thing I might project as well.
CLIENT: No the only thing I thought I had this moment where I was like I could (inaudible at 00:15:01) prescriptions but if I did - it was like 5:14 - but if I did that I know you won't be mad.
THERAPIST: Inevitably I'll be on time. [00:15:10]
CLIENT: Right. So then I didn't but mostly I don't know. Well this ought to explain it. I'm like wow I'm so upset about this. And the part that I talk about the most is not the things she said to me, the negative things, it was the taking advantage of generosity for her. That's what really just - That is most of this. And I try because I was talking to various friends and they're was this like consciously trying to scam people. Is she like what is it ultimately? And I think people more recently (inaudible at 00:16:12) in the last year. And I'm like I think those were all real crisis but I also feel like if you gave her anything you'd have to be the it's gone and that you won't get not even appreciation but sort of like you won't really get an acknowledgement of it. Does that make sense? [00:16:50]
THERAPIST: Uh huh.
CLIENT: And while I do not like people being very appreciative I do kind of like I think... And also because, I guess, kind of with other things I try to discreetly when I have the money to give people who I know need it. Like when I come to dinner I'll buy you whatever. Like we had one time a big dinner for people (inaudible at 00:17:27) and it ended up being kind of expensive. And for two different people I was like I'll pay for half your meal. And then actually also this one poor girl she missed her bus and I was like we'll find you a hotel room for the night (inaudible at 00:17:49). And the next morning I was like did you eat breakfast? I bought her some breakfast and a cup of coffee. I was like do you need cash for the bus? She didn't have a car but she had no cash. And so those are all things that when I can afford I value being able to do. [00:18:10]
Like Laura made me feel so weary about it for a while. Like I want to but... I really ended up stopping and hanging out with locals (inaudible at 00:18:37) like I won't see on an ongoing basis so it can never really be an ongoing you know. And then there's this other whole side thing where I'm like Laura you fucked yourself over. Like you are coming from generational poverty like you did a lot of this to yourself. And so that is always like (pause). It almost like they're deserving for it because that's creepy but I'm just like yeah she did have some money. You have had money at certain points. You have had some real trouble and you've chosen to spend a lot of it on just impulse buy, impulse buy, impulse buy. [00:19:39]
THERAPIST: (inaudible at 00:19:39)
CLIENT: Like the thing with the inheritance where she didn't pay taxes on it blew my mind. First of all when she got the money she probably bought several high ticket items where I'm like you really needed to buy yourself that. And then come tax time she was saying like oh shit, and I think wanted to basically sell some of the things that she had just bought. There is no value in expensive limited edition comics, or figurines, or any of that stuff. Like if you spend $200.00 on a special edition DVD set it's not worth $200.00. You can't get that back. You can only get close to that back. And so it was something like that. [00:20:42]
THERAPIST: I see.
CLIENT: And tech toys which you can get close to value but I don't know. So that was a thing. That was sort of at the end. So it's like the security in the place they have it on full body X-ray like the back scanner.
THERAPIST: At the...
CLIENT: At the airport. So okay I went through and then so when I came out there was a guard right in front of me and another basically comes up to me and says we need to pat down your hair. And I just say no because I'm like you just took a creepy back scan. I don't want you touching my hair. But I felt like I couldn't... There's a guard in front of me, there's this woman coming at me, it's almost on me, and I was just really freaked out about it. So I'm like okay, fine, whatever, this is happening. I'm like when I get down to the gate it'll be fine. I'll probably know someone in this airport. And I did and the person sitting next to and talking these three. [00:22:18]
And so Timothy had been raped last year at the convention and I had been, for better or for worse, probably the first person to talk to (inaudible at 00:22:35) publicly because the person that raped Timothy was also trying to raise money within these communities for gain and I was just like bullshit. Yeah, I told you about it before.
THERAPIST: We don't talk about it again but I'm somewhat familiar with it.
CLIENT: And I was standing there I was kind of chatting, and I wasn't really processing, and then I was like yeah I had a good time; so much better than last year. And then that's right, rape, rape, rape, rape, rape. And it kind of set me off on remembering all that stress. [00:23:17]
And another thing that happened last summer which is Megan who is a huge - she runs a bunch of (inaudible at 00:23:31) erotica small crafts. She helps run several big media summer events. She does a (inaudible at 00:23:40) and all that stuff in the area so she is like professionally kinky and good at what she does. Part of her shtick all the time is to be it's okay to do these feminist can be submissive like blah, blah, blah. She's very like - it can be a little bit hard because sometimes the propaganda - which I get - that you're like Megan's mom. (inaudible at 00:24:04). And she's like blah, blah, blah, blah, blah. [00:24:08]
And I was on a panel with her about just being a submissive and being a feminist. And my knee jerk reaction is blah, blah, blah. And I finally did walk away. And except for the part where Megan's partner is a rapist and an abuser which Timothy found out last summer and so that what's what I was thinking about. A friend of mine was having a great dinner and this girl, I said (inaudible at 00:24:42). And then she started talking about how he physically abused her, raped her, mentally abused her, and she gave a lot of detail. So (inaudible at 00:25:01) had mentioned that he had raped her. My friend was like are you okay with this? I said, yeah I'm okay. I thought it was just going to be like this happened. It sucked. [00:25:19]
THERAPIST: Right. That this person wasn't going to go into details.
CLIENT: Yeah. I had no idea that would happen to us at dinnertime and also our ride home. And I was really shell shocked after that. And part of why I was shell shocked I was like she doesn't talk about it to other people at all and (inaudible at 00:25:47) basically forced to run a couple of social events with him. So after her discussion it was like why don't you tell people? Like have you told any more people? And she's like oh no. I'm sure he won't do that again. I go but how do you know? She's like well at the end of the relationship she negotiated some kind of he agreed to do some intensive anger management therapy and something else, do 100 hours of volunteer work, make a large donation to the area rape crisis center, whatever, whatever. I'm like yeah that's all good but it doesn't mean shit. [00:26:39]
And she was just very insistent and she's like no, no, no. I don't want you to tell anyone because he's changed. I'm like I don't feel cool about that, and I haven't really talked about it with other people (inaudible at 00:27:01). Like the whole experience was very upsetting and then there's this is sort of more like a bad experience where I'm like Megan's someone who I have kind of looked up to and she's a leader in the community. And so she must know what happened at some level. He was in mandatory counseling for over a year. And yeah, like wow, Megan your partner is an abuser and a rapist and you pretty regularly get up and talk about how (pause). One of the programs that she helps she helps (inaudible at 00:27:57) and abuse where members of an organization that she helps out basically work with the police and other people to do... And she's worked with the local (inaudible at 00:28:14) group. And I'm just like you're doing all this and totally - I don't know - lying, covering up, whatever what your partner did. Maybe he's done it again. No idea. [00:28:38]
And I never heard... Like people gossip like nobody's business and I've never heard a whiff of this at all. The most I've ever heard was oh he can be a little bit needy. Or sometimes someone thinks they're having a fuck or fling, anything if they're having a relationship and it's like you know and that's it. And so I just spent some time being like I kind of want to say something but I really don't. Like my friend who was on the panel with Megan I'm like I don't know what to say to you because it's both relevant to the panel that you're going to be on with her and kind of not because it's not about Megan herself. There's no point in if you bring it up she's going to have - it's going to be just a shit storm. [00:29:43]
THERAPIST: Right.
CLIENT: And I don't want that blow back. I don't want the blow back on the person who he attacked. Do you know what I mean? And so I'm just... I don't know. I'm kind of alternating between not wanting to think about that and just thinking about it. And it's one of those things where it's really important to talk about, but I don't know that I can do that. And we talked about it - I feel just incredibly inarticulate talking about what had happened to me and also really some other cases like (inaudible at 00:30:56) I just feel super - Like obviously I feel like I really think this should be talked about. I have no idea how to talk about it. And it's not that I don't know a vocabulary for talking about rape, and assault, and abuse. I got that. But talking about it in any circumstance is very similar to my - I just feel it's so hard like - I don't know. [00:31:41]
THERAPIST: I imagine for you that it's... I'm not entirely precise with my math here but doubly hard to talk in that I think it makes you quite uncomfortable to take up a lot of emotional space with people. And I know some of it is (inaudible at 00:32:25), but I think also the way you have just been talking, or whatever, is I had this thought a few times as you were talking that this is sort of your version of ranting. I don't mean that at all in a critical way. What I really mean is there was some stuff happened that was difficult, that you're upset about, that made you anxious, that got in the way of something that you were trying to go to and just wanted to have fun at as far as I know. And it's frustrating, it's upsetting, you were anxious. But I can imagine and I'm feeling it when you talk about stuff like that you generally don't talk about it in a way to take up a lot of emotion to sort of make a lot of demand of another person either by being like... Yeah, my sense is that you worry about that and you kind of... It's like asking for help from people. That's the metaphor I want. [00:33:42]
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: It's makes you anxious and it's hard to do.
CLIENT: And I also feel in a way guilty for not being able to.
THERAPIST: Oh. For not being able to make those demands on people?
CLIENT: For having such a hard time talking about it. The reason why - this is sort of the rationality. Part of what upset me a lot with Steph is it happened a while ago and it's completely been like - I'll just say it. It feels like it's been hushed up, covered up. And I'm like shit we should be talking about this. I can't believe that people are dealing with him and not know this. And he's getting a lot of - having this partner he gets a certain - I don't know - level of credit pass or whatever. People are like oh, of course, he's fine. He's Megan's partner. Of course, I've know Mike for 20 years. He's fine. [00:34:51]
THERAPIST: He's been vetted.
CLIENT: Yeah. And it's completely false. And I feel that way about Josie a lot because when she does anything for her mom. I mean we talk about just because someone speaks doesn't mean that we're indicating approval, but relatively speaking (pause) it gives us an amount of cred. And I'm also aware that Josie does use often a relationship to sort of - I don't know - give herself a certain cache or whatever. Like (pause) sort of well I'm white but I needed this person who wasn't white and that'd be me, special insight plus special non-racism which I don't like. (Pause) I don't know. [00:36:12]
Like I hate the idea of her using our relationship to prop herself up and attempt to give herself street cred or some kind of cred and that people are unlikely to ask me about it. They're like oh well I hadn't heard anything. Like me not talking about her relationship a lot also means that there isn't really a sense that it was... Close friends know it was horrible but in a larger sense I don't think it's known. Actually I know it's not known. And I feel bad like I need to conceptualize in a theoretical way (pause) part of me wishes that (pause) I would've told more people. I mean it's one of those things where like any individual person does not have to say I love you to them (inaudible at 00:37:47). But also (inaudible at 00:37:49) hurt everyone. [00:37:55]
(Pause) [00:39:14]
THERAPIST: Well I guess that's about it. I'd say I think it's sort of doubly hard for you talk about what happened because I mean in the first place I think you were really vulnerable to take up space emotionally where you feel like you're imposing on anyone emotionally because it's the same risk as asking for help in other ways too. And then, of course, it's makes you feel so vulnerable to talk about what happened in the first place. It was part (inaudible at 00:40:01). Well I'm sort of - I think you don't want to take up space and you said yes. And think about what it costs other people. [00:40:28]
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: I mean I know you... I think I understand what you mean or the sentiment behind it, but it struck me as a response to what I was getting at.
CLIENT: Yeah. I think part of it that I really want to be able to (pause) - like I want to be able to talk about it. I wanted to do that. [00:41:13]
THERAPIST: Yeah.
CLIENT: I mean I think about people who can talk about rape and assault like that. We've all got to talk about it, and I'm like you are an amazing person, and I want to do that. Like sometimes where I want to do that I can feel the reasons why it's good to be able to talk like. I can see all these reasons why it would be good to and then I'm completely inarticulate and tongue tied.
THERAPIST: We're going to stop for now. But why don't we come back to this so you can talk more about it.
CLIENT: Yeah. [00:42:11]
END TRANSCRIPT
