TRANSCRIPT OF AUDIO FILE:
______________________________________________________________________________
BEGIN TRANSCRIPT:
THERAPIST: So how are you?
CLIENT: I'm all right. I'm sorry to cancel again on you last week. Thank you for (inaudible at 00:00:10).
THERAPIST: Out of your control. 
CLIENT: They rescheduled those things last minute all the time. And then (inaudible at 00:00:15).
THERAPIST: You have to just go. 
CLIENT: You have to just go. Yeah. And it did not go well. 
THERAPIST: Oh. I'm sorry to hear that. 
CLIENT: And actually I would say he's worse off now than he's been in awhile. (chuckles)
THERAPIST: Oh no. 
CLIENT: He—they ended up shocking him twice trying to get him out of abnormal heart rhythm. That was the procedure was to shock him out of his abnormal heart (inaudible at 00:00:35). And it didn't work either time. And it left him in atrial flutter, which is sort of a precursor to atrial fibrillation, which he says, makes him feel the worst out of both. Which I don't know if that's possible or why. Anyway. And then they put him on double dose of all of his drugs. So he's just really unhappy. [0:00:56]
THERAPIST: Mm. Yeah. 
CLIENT: I was really upset. And is feeling sort of more optimistic about it now but it was not a good week. 
THERAPIST: Mm. No it sounds like it was really disappointing not to be able to have that work. 
CLIENT: Yeah and I mean they really beat him up so he wasn't just sick for a couple of days. 
THERAPIST: (inaudible at 00:01:16) must be exhausting. 
CLIENT: And depressed. And the double doses of the drugs really make him not feel so good (inaudible at 00:01:26). 
THERAPIST: Are they working? Will that change the rhythm? Or –
CLIENT: I don't know. 
THERAPIST: (inaudible at 00:01:33)
CLIENT: Yeah they don't know. It's the pace-setting drug that they've been trying to get him off of that they really upped a lot. Which is the whole point of all of this is to get off this drug. So now he's on more of it than ever to sort of hopefully do the same thing as the shock. But with drugs. 
THERAPIST: Mm. Mm-hmm. 
CLIENT: But I'm—we've sort of been skirting talking about it but I'm pretty sure he'll need another ablation because it appears to not have worked. Because the (inaudible at 00:02:00) build up in your system so I guess it can take awhile to see the effect of a lower dose. I think like a month actually. Maybe it's three months to have it completely done and a month to see the effects. It might just be that it was starting to not work anymore. A lower dose. I don't know. We're going to the doctor again on Friday. [0:02:22]
THERAPIST: How are you doing with this turn of events?
CLIENT: I'm feeling a little overwhelmed. (chuckles)
THERAPIST: A little? 
CLIENT: Well I was more upset last week. I really thought his mom would be more help but she's so hands off. And I thought she would just participate because he's her son and he's in the hospital. I sent her updates while we were there. She didn't come.
THERAPIST: How long was he there?
CLIENT: We were there for most of the day.
THERAPIST: And she never came?
CLIENT: Yeah. Which we didn't ask her to and it wasn't supposed –
THERAPIST: Did he want her there?
CLIENT: No. No. 
THERAPIST: But you want her there so you can take—so some of the responsibility is off you.
CLIENT: (inaudible at 00:02:55) Yeah. And in fact I had cancelled some things I was going to—I didn't think we'd be there all day.
THERAPIST: Right. 
CLIENT: I had to cancel some more things last minute. And you know I asked him—because he likes my parents—if he wanted to go over there and have them take care of him. And he just doesn't want people to see him. [0:03:15]
THERAPIST: He feels comfortable with you. 
CLIENT: Yeah. (inaudible at 00:03:18) see him. 
THERAPIST: Mm-hmm. What is he like when he's gone through that? How are you seeing him? 
CLIENT: He's really, really frustrated because he was feeling so good. I mean he's just—there is no explanation. He's been doing everything right and so he just feels really, really frustrated. 
THERAPIST: Yeah. 
CLIENT: Yeah so. You know for a few days he was just sort of being kind of mean. 
THERAPIST: Mm. Taking out his frustration on you.
CLIENT: Yeah. Yeah. Which I would say he was doing and then he would apologize. But he was just so frustrated. Because now he basically just has to wait feeling like crap. 
THERAPIST: Mm. 
CLIENT: Till they figure out (inaudible at 00:04:04) 
THERAPIST: For who knows how long. 
CLIENT: For who knows how long yeah. Yeah.
THERAPIST: It's a really difficult position for both of you to be in. 
CLIENT: Yeah!
THERAPIST: It's hard for him to be the patient and it's really hard to be the loved one of a patient when there aren't answers. And there isn't a treatment that's working. [0:04:19]
CLIENT: Yeah. And I would say he's happier at the moment than he was last week because the drugs have worn off from the actual procedure which make him feel extra worse. 
THERAPIST: Mm.
CLIENT: (chuckles) So and I don't know if he's just putting on a front for me because he knows how much it affects me or if he's really just trying to be optimistic about it. He doesn't really want to talk about it. So I don't know. 
THERAPIST: Oh I'm so sorry. 
CLIENT: Yeah. It was really unexpected. It's never not—I mean he's had like eight of these now. It's never not worked. Well it's never not worked the (inaudible at 00:04:59). 
THERAPIST: Mm. 
CLIENT: Actually he usually has to get two of them. So far mostly because of drug dosage problems of all sorts. [0:05:12]
THERAPIST: Mm.
CLIENT: One time they wrote on his discharge papers the wrong dosage. 
THERAPIST: That seems like (inaudible at 00:05:19) mistake.
CLIENT: And we should've called because it seemed low. (chuckles) And that was probably the problem that time. He just has bad luck. Really bad luck. So. Yeah and so he's been feeling better. And we've been feeling better. 
THERAPIST: Mm. You were feeling a lot more hopeful. 
CLIENT: Until this past week. Yeah. And so I've gotten more involved in things. And been trying to sort of be more social and have friends. (chuckles) And now I feel just really overwhelmed by all of it. And tired. 
THERAPIST: When you say overwhelmed, can you share with me what's going through your head? What happens to your body? [0:06:05]
CLIENT: Yeah. Actually last night I had the first bad night I've had in awhile because I woke up in the middle of the night because [he was breaking]. I wake up in the middle of the night like every single night. I'm not sure why. But then I fall back asleep. And that's fine. But last night I woke up in the middle of the night and I happened to see the clock, which I thought, was terrible. (chuckles) 
And it was like three or four a.m. Something like that. And we're supposed to go see a friend of mine tonight perform in a show. We're supposed to go to my parents' house tomorrow. We're supposed to go to another friend's event thing this weekend. There are just a lot of things that are happening. Also I just feel so exhausted by it all. And in the middle of the night I was like, "Oh my gosh." I just got myself worked up because –
THERAPIST: What were your thoughts? What was (inaudible at 00:06:55)?
CLIENT: That I can't handle all this. And obviously now I won't be able to sleep and I can't handle all this. And it's too much. And I just want to hide. (chuckles) From it all. I was sort of feeling sad because on Sunday night a friend of mine came over to pick some stuff up from Josh. (inaudible) things. [0:07:12]
And just hang out for a little bit. For the show we're going to see tonight actually. She was really excited about it. She just graduated, undergrad. And she started her own company. And she's racing [cyclecross] which is a crazy, bizarre form of cycling in the mud. And she's just got all this energy. And –
THERAPIST: What was your gut response to being with her?
CLIENT: It just made me feel really sad. I was like that is what I'd like to be able to do. And at least thought I used to be able to do. Just sort of fill up my life however I wanted. And she was just so excited. (inaudible at 00:07:52) everything. (chuckles)
THERAPIST: And you wanted to be able to feel that. 
CLIENT: Yeah. I mean I don't know how much the drugs still make me tired or just tired from being stressed out. I mean one night of bad sleep is not going to make me feel quite so tired. [0:08:06]
THERAPIST: But it sounds like it hasn't been really one bad night. If you've been waking up at night even though you fall back to sleep— 
CLIENT: Yeah I guess that would not—
THERAPIST: —it's not the same as sleeping through the night. 
CLIENT: Yeah. 
THERAPIST: But it also sounds like some of the tiredness is probably related to the fact that you had broken sleep. But it also sounds like some of it is feeling weighed down by the anticipation of stuff. Anticipating all these events and you anticipate that you're going to feel tired. 
CLIENT: Yeah I mean last night I could just see how ridiculous it was as I was thinking all this stuff. And I just couldn't make it stop. (chuckles) And I did eventually fall back asleep but I just woke up feeling terrible. So. I don't know. And I told Josh about it in the morning. He was like, "I just don't understand why you can't stop thinking." It's like I don't know why I can't exactly. 
THERAPIST: It's really hard to not think when you're thinking. [0:09:04]
CLIENT: I mean I don't always believe him when he tells me that he just stops thinking about things. Maybe he does. Maybe people can. I don't know. (laughs)
THERAPIST: What does he replace the thoughts with? What does he then think? Because our minds are not blank very often. 
CLIENT: I don't know. I mean if I were him I'd be going crazy right now. He's applying to grad school and fellowships. Teaching. And trying not to be depressed about having a heart condition that's all messed up right now. I don't know what he replaces it with. Thinking about his work? I don't know. I don't know. 
THERAPIST: What would you like to think about? 
CLIENT: What would I like to think about? Nothing. Absolutely nothing. In the middle of the night the minute I start thinking about anything all of sudden I'm just completely awake. I just think about how friends of mine, most people, will just—I think. Maybe not. They wake up in the middle of the night and be like a zombie. But no I could –. [0:10:08]
THERAPIST: You're really startled into alert. 
CLIENT: Yeah. (laughs) Which and it takes so little lately to get like that. So that's frustrating. 
THERAPIST: You actually feel like you have no control over what's going on in your head. And how what goes on in your head activates the rest of you. 
CLIENT: Yeah. And I mean I used to be able to handle a lot more. And maybe it was less serious and that was the problem. Or –
THERAPIST: You've had some pretty serious stuff going on. Our hearts are pretty important. 
CLIENT: Yeah I mean—Josh is also saying—He's started listening to the news and the debates. He's like, "We could be in [Libya] being bombed or whatever. This is not that bad of a set of problems." But I just I don't know. I'm able to know rationally that this is ridiculous and put it all in perspective but I can't stop. [0:11:03]
THERAPIST: Which pieces are ridiculous? 
CLIENT: Well in the middle of the night freaking out about not having any energy to do all these things because I (inaudible at 00:11:12) sleep which then makes me not sleep. Right? I mean that's just –
THERAPIST: Well it's ironic but maybe not ridiculous. I mean it doesn't seem ridiculous to me to be upset about the fact that you feel like you have no energy. You're a young woman. You're healthy. You want to have energy to pursue your interests. I think that's a pretty normal wish. 
CLIENT: Okay. 
THERAPIST: Now is it ironic that you're worrying about it at night when—and the reason you don't have the energy is that you can't sleep? 
CLIENT: Mm-hmm.
THERAPIST: A little. (chuckles) But I mean the wish to want to feel well and be able to enjoy your life is not at all ridiculous. 
CLIENT: I mean I don't think that this is fine. (chuckles) I mean if I was just going to have this amount of energy, which is maybe half what I want, I'd just deal with it. 
THERAPIST: But that's not okay. 
CLIENT: I don't think that's what is acceptable or normal. I don't know. [0:12:05]
THERAPIST: No. I mean no one wants to settle for not their full capability. 
CLIENT: Yeah. Unless that's changed for some reason. 
THERAPIST: Mm. 
CLIENT: Which I hope not. 
THERAPIST: I think this is the secondary effect of other stuff that is going on. 
CLIENT: Yeah. So. And there is nothing I can do about Josh but continue to wait. 
THERAPIST: Waiting is really hard. 
CLIENT: So. I mean his—I don't know. One of his cardiologists—wasn't a cardiologist exactly—mapped out the electrical signals of his heart. We talked to him once or twice. I don't remember if I ever told you this. Probably not because it was a long time ago when we first started all this. 
THERAPIST: I don't think so.
CLIENT: Just told Josh or us that he had a hunch that he was going to be a tough case. I never told you this? 
THERAPIST: Uh-uh. 
CLIENT: I was really mad because for a doctor to have a hunch and tell you that with no evidence or reason for it just makes you feel bad. [0:13:06]
THERAPIST: Mm-hmm. 
CLIENT: I mean what are we supposed to do with that but feel worried and bad about it. 
THERAPIST: Right. 
CLIENT: But it appears to be coming true. So. 
THERAPIST: It's still not useful. 
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: I mean it's not useful information to have. It didn't help. It certainly doesn't help you cope with feeling overwhelmed by it. 
CLIENT: No. No I mean I think before I was really optimistic about how things were going to go. I (inaudible at 00:13:38) I'm not optimistic anymore. 
THERAPIST: Yeah. A couple of weeks ago I remember you saying he was feeling really good. It seemed kind of behind you. 
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: And then it popped right back up.
CLIENT: Yeah. It was so manageable until—I don't know. We got more doctors involved. (laughs lightly) So. [0:14:02]
THERAPIST: What are you anticipating?
CLIENT: For him? (inaudible at 00:14:09)
THERAPIST: For you. For you with him. 
CLIENT: (sighs) I mean I keep telling him that we'll get through it all. That we'll be able to handle it all. 
THERAPIST: He's not here. 
CLIENT: Right. And I think we will. I don't know. I feel like I can think about and handle having to go through another ablation. I think he's having to think about that and how it will be fine. 
THERAPIST: What will that be like for you? I wasn't around for the first one. 
CLIENT: Well I will tell people (inaudible at 00:14:43) know now about it. About things. And I mean his mom will be—I guess now I know I have to ask her specifically to help. And I think she will. But she's not going to push it. It's just really surprising because my mother would (inaudible). [0:15:01]
THERAPIST: She would just jump in. 
CLIENT: Yeah. Yeah. I don't know how Josh will react this time. Which unfortunately affects me more than it should probably. 
THERAPIST: How did he react last time? I mean I remember after the fact he was really depressed.
CLIENT: He was really, really depressed. (inaudible at 00:15:22) I mean he basically could barely even walk around for like a month. 
THERAPIST: (inaudible at 00:15:28)
CLIENT: So. 
THERAPIST: Was that because he felt depressed that he couldn't get up or is that a physical—is this an expected kind of physical part of the recovery? I'm not familiar with this cardiac stuff at all. It's not a part of psychology training. 
CLIENT: Yeah. (laughs) It was because he left the hospital in atrial fibrillation or went into it. And then they had to shock him out of it. But they wanted to let him sort of recover a bit and build up some more of the drugs in his system like blood thinners. [0:16:06]
THERAPIST: Mm.
CLIENT: Which terrify me. (chuckles)
THERAPIST: How come? What's scary to you about them?
CLIENT: Blood thinners? Well before when he was still wanting to bike from time to time like he used to [get cocky]. Like if he was in an accident he would just bleed out. (laughs)
THERAPIST: So you were worried about doing something and getting (inaudible at 00:16:23).
CLIENT: (inaudible at 00:16:23) It probably wouldn't happen but it's just dangerous to be on blood thinners. 
THERAPIST: Mm-hmm.
CLIENT: It's not a very good thing to be on long term. So they say. The one he's on is safer than some others. He actually used to refuse to take it because on an earlier version of it he used to have to go get a blood test every few days. To check the levels of it. Because it was toxic or—I don't know. It was hard to manage. 
THERAPIST: Mm-hmm.
CLIENT: And now he's on one that you don't have to blood test. So he's at least willing to take it.
THERAPIST: Do you know what he's on?
CLIENT: Predaxa. I don't know what the actual name of it is. It's the brand name.
THERAPIST: I'm just learning along with you. 
CLIENT: Yeah. I forget what I was telling you about. [0:17:06]
THERAPIST: I was wondering sort of if his—if the length of his recovery was something that's sort of expected physically or if it was more of a psychological manifestation.
CLIENT: Oh. I mean I think that we know how to manage it now. I mean he got really, really sick from the anesthesia. They told me in the operating room he turned blue. 
THERAPIST: Mm. 
CLIENT: I mean he's really a lot of trouble because his heart rate is super low. And his blood pressure is really low to begin with. And so they can only give him so many drugs. And they have to be really careful and it's really hard to put him to sleep when his resting heart rate is like forty-five which for most people's is like sixty or seventy. (chuckles) So they just have a lot of trouble with him. 
And then I guess because he's been on blood thinners they couldn't get his incisions to clot. And then they kept opening up (inaudible at 00:17:57) week. And he was really miserable. And really sick from the drugs. And all this. It took a long time to wear off and he was in atrial fibrillation, which makes them retain water, which is why they can't walk. Because it presses on his liver I think. It's one of the symptoms of heart failure I think is liver pain from water. I'm not a hundred percent clear on all of that. [0:18:17]
THERAPIST: Mm. 
CLIENT: But retaining water—like a lot of water. Like fifteen or twenty pounds of water, which takes awhile to sort of get rid of. 
THERAPIST: Right. And it's really uncomfortable. 
CLIENT: So yeah. So I mean most of this is physical. (laughs) 
THERAPIST: Mm-hmm. And feeling that uncomfortable and being that limited is bound to make you feel depressed. It's really hard to (inaudible at 00:18:37)
CLIENT: Yeah. And the minute he starts feeling better he just bounces back. 
THERAPIST: Mm.
CLIENT: I'm not like worried about him necessarily like jumping off a cliff or being long term depressed. 
THERAPIST: He's a very [symatic] kind of guy. I mean how he feels physically really determines how he feels mentally.
CLIENT: Yeah. Yeah.
THERAPIST: And it's sort of the reverse for you. How you're feeling in your head impacts how you feel in your body. [0:19:03]
CLIENT: I guess yeah.
THERAPIST: Your anxiety makes you feel restless and keyed up and exhausted at the same time. 
CLIENT: Yeah. I mean I think things are getting better for him now because he's putting less and less of his sort of self worth into his athletic performance. Which he used to base his entire self worth on. 
THERAPIST: That makes school and applying to school so important. 
CLIENT: Yeah. I mean he got into every single school he applied to. 
THERAPIST: That's nice feedback.
CLIENT: For his master's program. And yet he still doesn't think that he'll be able to get Ph.D. He just, for some reason, despite how he keeps succeeding—I mean he got into every school undergrad. He went to a great—there is no reason he should have any lack of confidence in his academic abilities. 
THERAPIST: But he does, huh?
CLIENT: But he does. (laughs) I don't know. And I did not actually realize—like I showed him how to apply to grad school because he had no idea. And he told me how important it was that I told him he could it. And here's how to do it. When it wasn't a big deal to me. I mean why wouldn't he be able to do it? It's not that hard to do it. [0:20:10]
THERAPIST: Mm-hmm. 
CLIENT: You just do the steps. (laughs) And he told me how huge that was for him. No one ever told him that before I guess. Probably because they saw him as an athlete who wasn't interested. Which is not really true. He just –
THERAPIST: He's just really good at both things actually.
CLIENT: Yeah, yeah, yeah. So anyway. Point being that the fact that he can't be an athlete is less painful. Although he's still upset if he can't sort of be athletic.
THERAPIST: What's that like for you? Because I know a lot of what you kind of developed a relationship around was being really active together. 
CLIENT: I mean last year –
THERAPIST: That's how you saw him. 
CLIENT: Last year was horrible, yeah. I mean I think I told you about the time he– because I had bought (inaudible at 00:21:00) skis before all this happened because he was so excited to show me how to cross country ski. He had sort of taught me. Not really (inaudible at 00:21:06). Because he used to do it in high school. And race in high school. Cross country skiing. (laughs) But anyway it snowed once last year. I mean twice. [0:21:15]
THERAPIST: Yeah we had a very light winter. 
CLIENT: And he was in atrial fibrillation. (chuckles) But he's like we're going. I tried to stop him many times. We're going to where there is a ski track and I'll just ski down the hill or whatever. You can ski however long you want on your new skis. You can actually use them. And I think I might've told you this? 
THERAPIST: This is when you met the guys?
CLIENT: Yeah. Well other skier guys who flirted with me. And I got started crying. 
THERAPIST: You told me that part of the story. 
CLIENT: Yeah. Yeah. So it affected me a lot last year. Especially when I kept riding with the bike team that he was wanting to help—I mean if he had been healthy last year he would've run it. The whole thing. And he was really upset that I was trying to stay involved while he was sick. And he was pretty upset about that. Which made it really hard for me and I eventually dropped out of it because (inaudible). [0:22:06]
THERAPIST: Mad at you upset or sad upset? 
CLIENT: He wasn't really mad at me but he was upset that I didn't want to just stay home and take care of him. In sort of a selfish way. Which is understandable. I mean he didn't say, "Don't go. Stay home with me." He just sort of acted—I mean a little bit like how he acted a few days after the procedure last week which is kind of a little bit mean and lashing out at me a little bit. 
And I mean I knew exactly what he was doing. I would tell him that and he would apologize but it was still hard. When it was like months of him trying to restrain his frustration. Especially when he had no one else to talk to. So. I mean it's still like that. If I take the dog around the lake and he can't go with me right now. He will feel terrible (inaudible at 00:22:59). And he's sort of sad which makes me sad. 
THERAPIST: Yeah. It's sad for you that he can't go with you and enjoy it. And it's sad for you that both sort of what you lose and what he loses. [0:23:13]
CLIENT: Yeah. I mean it kills the benefit of it for me a little bit. 
THERAPIST: Mm-hmm.
CLIENT: Whatever you said—relieving my anxiety. However that works. 
THERAPIST: Yeah. 
CLIENT: So. 
THERAPIST: Yeah. I mean you lose a lot when you can't think of him as healthy person. It's much different to be in a relationship with a healthy person than a sick person. And he's pretty sick right now. 
CLIENT: Yeah. Yeah. And it's weird too because he never looks it or seems it. So no one ever seems to really recognize the problem. Like that it's really a problem. Even I told friends I had to take my boyfriend to the hospital for this procedure. And nobody really asked me about it either. They all met him. They all know him. Like he just doesn't seem like he's in heart failure. [0:24:04]
THERAPIST: Right.
CLIENT: It's really hard to get people to recognize it. I don't think his mom even realizes. That's part of why I need to get her to the hospital. I don't think she really gets it that this is heart failure. Like this is a big deal. So. 
THERAPIST: You know I've never heard you use those words before. 
CLIENT: Well I don't like to say the words heart failure because it's just sort of a definition of if your heart doing this, this and this it's called heart failure. His heart isn't failing. He's not going to die without—well he probably wouldn't die if he went off all the (inaudible at 00:24:40) he'd just be at risk for dying. (chuckles) But it's not like (inaudible at 00:24:45).
THERAPIST: Mm. 
CLIENT: He's on machines keeping him alive.
THERAPIST: So what's the difference for you in using—I mean so what's going on with his heart meets that criteria. 
CLIENT: Mm-hmm.
THERAPIST: But not really in your mind. When do you feel like it would be legit to say heart failure? [0:25:05]
CLIENT: I don't know. I mean it's really confusing even when we talk to the doctors because they panic every time we take him to the hospital and hook him up to machines. 
THERAPIST: Mm-hmm.
CLIENT: Because he looks like he's dying because his heart rate is so low. 
THERAPIST: Mm-hmm. 
CLIENT: And then his actual (inaudible at 00:25:18) –
THERAPIST: The numbers scare them. 
CLIENT: Yeah the numbers scare them. 
THERAPIST: Mm-hmm.
CLIENT: And his cardiologist comes in and says, "Look this is just him. Stop panicking and paging me. It's going to be okay. This is just how he is." (laughs) And they have to shut the alarms off on all the equipment. I mean—I didn't think he was that abnormal but I guess he is. 
THERAPIST: Because what's –
CLIENT: Plus he's on drugs.
THERAPIST: What's sustainable for him is not necessarily sustainable for someone else. 
CLIENT: Yeah and I mean when they do tests on him the injection fractions that they get, so they say, a normal person would not be able to walk around. He's walking around just fine. So I don't know. 
THERAPIST: Yeah.
CLIENT: I don't even know if they know how serious it is for him. 
THERAPIST: Mm-hmm.
CLIENT: Because they don't know what he was like before.
THERAPIST: Right. 
CLIENT: So I don't know. It's such a mystery that I would hate to—I don't know. Maybe I should say heart failure more. [0:26:08]
THERAPIST: Well I think it's tricky because you don't want to be predicting doom. 
CLIENT: Mm-hmm.
THERAPIST: But you do want people to understand that you need support and he needs support. And the majority of people have no idea what an injection fraction is. 
CLIENT: For now. 
THERAPIST: Or that a resting heart rate of forty-five should be shocking. 
CLIENT: Right. Right.
THERAPIST: So most people don't have any context for the stuff that you have gained familiarity with. But people do have context for heart failure. I mean that's a term people have heard. That's a term people know is serious. And I think most people probably don't the criteria that you were just able to spout off. That doesn't mean anything to them. But you need a way to let people know it is a big deal. [0:26:57]
CLIENT: Mm-hmm.
THERAPIST: Even if you're not predicting that he's going to die tomorrow. It's still a big deal. There's still a lot responsibility that comes with knowing this stuff and taking care of him. And both of you need support. So I mean I don't know if that's what you need to tell people, select people that are close enough to you, in order for them to like have an empathic and supportive response when you let them know. Like, "Hey I brought my boyfriend to the hospital for a procedure." You didn't bring him in to have a mole removed. That would be like, "Okay. Great." (laughs) "Glad you're back."
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: There is so many—a lot of times people won't ask clarifying questions because they don't want to pry too much.
CLIENT: Well I mean like my lab mate she knows that he has a heart condition. But I don't know. 
THERAPIST: But it didn't result in her asking those follow up questions. 
CLIENT: No. 
THERAPIST: To figure out how it went. And what she could do to help you. [0:28:00]
CLIENT: Yeah. Last year I think at the end of January or maybe it was even February after things were sort of really bad for me but over in terms of the hospital with Josh and everything—and I think he was even shocked back into rhythm but I was having so much trouble sleeping and really having a bad time—one of our friends came over and Josh said something to her about what a tough time we've been having. And I don't know what he said to her exactly but her and her boyfriend brought us over a lasagna. This would've been great like a month ago! But even them, they don't even ask. Ever. About things. 
THERAPIST: It's fallen off their radar?
CLIENT: Yeah and I think because maybe he looks just fine. 
THERAPIST: He looks fine. 
CLIENT: And again this becomes more and more serious as things stop working. It could've been fixed last year and he could've been fine forever. And then the end. [0:28:59]
THERAPIST: But it wasn't.
CLIENT: But it wasn't. 
THERAPIST: So who would you feel comfortable letting in on that? Like saying, "By the way –." 
CLIENT: I mean I called my mother immediately. (chuckles) 
THERAPIST: Mm-hmm.
CLIENT: And told her about it. 
THERAPIST: Was she able to be supportive to you? 
CLIENT: Yeah. She says that she's there if I ever need anything. 
THERAPIST: Does that help you?
CLIENT: Yeah. Oh definitely. Definitely. Who else did I call? I called some other people that night but didn't get an answer. 
THERAPIST: Mm. Yeah but you reached out which is what you can do. You can't guarantee that people are going to be there.
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: But I am glad to see that you were able to reach out to people. You had some people that you felt comfortable calling. You have to call them back. 
CLIENT: Yeah. Yeah. 
THERAPIST: You have sort of the immediate need when you find out something or something happens but there is also this residual need because it is wearing. [0:30:03]
CLIENT: Yeah I don't have any other friend really. I actually had hoped that one of my friends who invited me out into town with her mom last weekend and I went and met her—she is apparently just having a really tough time right now with depression. I'm not sure—she says there is no reason for it. She just has a lot of trouble it. I think most of her family does too. And she's really hard to talk to when she's depressed. 
THERAPIST: (inaudible at 00:30:32)
CLIENT: She won't—despite my prying she doesn't want to talk about it. Or doesn't want to know what to say about it because it's sort of inexplicable. 
THERAPIST: She doesn't have that trigger to point to.
CLIENT: She's also really hard to talk about stuff to because she talks about things she wants to do. And I've met people like this before. They have lots of plans but never does any of it. And I mean she's slowly getting a life together. And doing good things but I don't know. But she's a really frustrating friend. [0:31:04]
So. I don't know. It probably wasn't a good plan to hope for her to be supportive of me. She was one of the only people who knew about my sleep troubles last year. And I would show up at her house occasionally. Just cry to her for the afternoon. 
THERAPIST: Yeah.
CLIENT: I mean we wouldn't even really end up talking about it. We would just sort of paint our nails. Or walk the dog or something.
THERAPIST: Well sometimes that can be good camaraderie. 
CLIENT: It was. It was. Yeah.
THERAPIST: But she's not in a place where she can do that (inaudible at 00:31:37).
CLIENT: She's feeling miserable herself. Yeah. So. I don't know. I mean a lot of my friends don't really support me being in a relationship with someone with a heart condition.
THERAPIST: Mm.
CLIENT: Which again, it would be easier if we were married because they wouldn't say things like, "Do you really want to be with someone who has a heart condition?" 
THERAPIST: What's it like for you when people say that? 
CLIENT: I don't know. I always figured that I've fallen in love with this guy and any guy that I fell in love with could've developed problems at any time. [0:32:12]
THERAPIST: Mm-hmm.
CLIENT: I don't know. I mean there would be so much besides the heart condition to give up that it's just not what I want to do. Except for when I lost my mind a few months ago. 
THERAPIST: Mm-hmm. (pause at 00:32:26] to [00:32:31) I think it's hard when people ask that because it is a question that's popped up—that same question has kind of popped up in your head at moments. 
CLIENT: Sure. Yeah I mean it would be great not to have to go to the hospital again. But I'm permanently changed by it I guess now. (chuckles) Forever anyway. So. 
THERAPIST: So you don't want to give him up just because you've been changed in this way? 
CLIENT: Yeah I mean unless he became permanently depressed and refused to do anything with his life and just gave up. Which he's not doing. So. He's still trying to be –. [0:33:06]
THERAPIST: Have you shared that answer with friends that ask?
CLIENT: No I haven't really talked about it with anyone in awhile.
THERAPIST: I'm wondering are they asking because they want you to—I guess something to consider. And to think about. How is this different than what you envisioned? Or do you feel like they're asking with a message that you shouldn't be with him? Does it feel like a judgment or does it feel like a question? (inaudible at 00:33:37)
CLIENT: Well mostly these girls don't know him. So no it's just about me. Mostly this comes from my old roommate. And probably most of my friends from there would say similar things. Just because it was all about making yourself the best person you could be. [0:34:01]
And being as successful as possible. And not—there were no boys there. Why would you need to find one until you were as successful as you could be anyway? My friend has actually backed off now a little bit since she fell in love with her own guy. 
THERAPIST: Mm.
CLIENT: And is having her own troubles with that. Normal relationship troubles. She can't really say stuff like, "You should just be focusing on yourself right now anyway." 
THERAPIST: Right. (inaudible at 00:34:37)
CLIENT: (inaudible at 00:34:38) without becoming a little bit of a hypocrite. (laughs) So. I don't know. She told me about another girl in my class who got married really young. And her husband got a job and moved them halfway across the country and immediately got testicular cancer. And then she spent the next two years dealing with that. Well that would be terrible. Way worse. Although I think he recovered. So. It happens to other people. [0:35:09]
THERAPIST: (inaudible) Yeah you don't know where life is going to take you and it's hard to measure—I don't if there really is a way to measure this is worse than that thing or this thing because you don't know what's happening. You can't predict what course anything is going to take whether it be an illness or jobs or some sort of personal struggle. 
CLIENT: Yeah I mean I still wish I could just find someone who could relate in some way. 
THERAPIST: Are there any support groups for heart conditions or –?
CLIENT: I don't know. I haven't really tried to seek that out. 
THERAPIST: Would you be open to going if there were something? Like other people who have dealt with –
CLIENT: I mean it would depend. I guess most people who are with heart patients are old. [0:36:09]
THERAPIST: Older. Yeah. 
CLIENT: So. I don't know. It doesn't need to be someone with heart failure just someone who could understand in any way. (laughs) At all. 
THERAPIST: Yeah. What hospital does he go to when you go?
CLIENT: (inaudible at 00:36:26)
THERAPIST: You might check out and see—I mean generally hospitals have some sort of support groups. Sometimes they're content based. Sometimes they're not. And I wonder either just by looking at their website and seeing what they have for support or asking one of his doctors if they know of anything or if they can direct you to whom might know. Maybe that would be something that is really useful for you if it's available. Because it is a somewhat unique experience. Most of your friends have not gone through something like having a partner or a family member go through something like this. [0:37:07] (pause until [00:37:13) 
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: And any kind of dealing with someone with a chronic condition you know might be someone who could understand a little bit of what it's like. 
CLIENT: I mean there must be people. (laughs) There must be people everywhere! I don't know where they are.
THERAPIST: There must be. It's a matter of finding a forum to be able to connect with them.
CLIENT: Yeah. Yeah. (pause at 00:37:28] until [00:37:37) Yeah I mean all of my joining of other things is just backfiring just a little bit because it's full of all these energetic, excited people. 
THERAPIST: Yeah. 
CLIENT: In fact I went to something last night called Science in the City. It was terrible because I need to apply for fellowships. 
THERAPIST: I saw that advertised in the (inaudible at 00:37:55) actually. 
CLIENT: You did? Awesome! It looks awesome but I had to force myself to go. And one of my lab mates made me go with her because we both need to improve our outreach for our fellowships. Because that's the biggest thing people in my lab get rejected for is having no outreach. And in theory I think it sounds amazing and really cool. And it is. [0:38:14]
THERAPIST: Mm.
CLIENT: And you probably saw Science by the Tankard advertised? In which you go to a bar with a scientist? 
THERAPIST: I don't think I saw that one. But I mean I may have just been not paying attention enough. 
CLIENT: Oh really? They also have an amazing lecture series. It sounds really, really good. Every –
THERAPIST: But you said in theory it sounded great. What was the reality?
CLIENT: Oh I mean it's just it would be something else to deal with that if I have no energy is just going to be exhausting and stressful and make me feel worse. But I really want to do things like that. I mean it was like late last night was (inaudible at 00:38:51). And I was really tired. You know looking at all these really excited, enthusiastic people. I really want to have that again. [0:39:02]
THERAPIST: Yet you felt like it was a really big contrast to what you were feeling in the moment?
CLIENT: Yeah this is the night after my other friend with her start up company and whatever other stuff came over. I mean most of my friends are these kind of people. 
THERAPIST: Yeah. 
CLIENT: Which is tough.
THERAPIST: Hard not to be jealous. 
CLIENT: Yeah. It is. (laughs)
THERAPIST: Which is a tough feeling to sit with. To feel jealous about what other people have. And is what you want. I mean it's not material things you're seeking but the energy and the passion that you used to have. To see other people still having that. 
CLIENT: Yeah. I mean even my mother has more energy and passion than I have right now. So. Oh and on Sunday I joined—I've joined Science in the City and a mentorship program. Which neither of them should be that much of a commitment. But they all happened this past week. On Sunday there was this mentorship meeting. And I was really excited actually. And my mentee didn't show up. [0:40:03]
THERAPIST: Aww. That's disappointing. 
CLIENT: So I was bummed out. But it was like this whole meeting about the program, which was really fun. 
THERAPIST: So it was fun. And you did feel excited about it. 
CLIENT: It was fun. 
THERAPIST: And disappointed that your mentee did not show up. 
CLIENT: Yeah. I mean it was at lunchtime so that was good. That was a good time for me. (laughs) What was I going to say? We had lots of talking about our research. 
THERAPIST: Mm-hmm.
CLIENT: And work life balance and lots of other (inaudible at 00:40:31) she was talking about how they are in lab talking about their research all the time and don't go home as much as they should. Just more excited, passionate people to make me feel bad. So. There was a lot of that the past week. 
THERAPIST: How do you respond in the moment when that's going on for you? When you're hearing all this and you're feeling inadequate in comparison? 
CLIENT: How do I respond at the moment? I don't know. Exactly what do you mean? [0:41:05]
THERAPIST: What do you feel? What do you think? What happens for you? 
CLIENT: I mean I feel sad I guess that I don't have that kind of energy. And it makes me feel a little bit like I don't belong I guess. 
THERAPIST: So you start to wonder if you belong there?
CLIENT: Yeah. I mean I don't want to be—I've never been somebody who is going to stay in the lab all night because I'm super excited. I've never been that kind of person. But I at least used to get more energy to put into it in the first place. 
THERAPIST: I wonder if you start to critique yourself. As part of that questioning if you really belong there. [0:42:00]
CLIENT: Um (pause at 00:42:03] until [00:42:08) I don't know. I don't feel like that happens. I just sort of wonder—I still wonder what I'm doing wrong. Or what I need to be doing to keep getting better. 
THERAPIST: What I'm doing wrong sounds a little bit like a critique. 
CLIENT: It is a critique. And it's dangerous because then that leads to something in my life is wrong which leads to it's grad school or Josh. Which leads me to moving to [my mother's] house or I haven't tried to quit grad school quite yet. But it's a dangerous path. 
THERAPIST: Yeah. And that's what I sort—because there is I think a pattern that reinforces keeping you feeling badly. So it's not that you're making yourself feel bad. But you notice that you feel differently than these other people feel. 
CLIENT: Mm-hmm.
THERAPIST: You want to have what they have. And at some point that voice creeps in and says, "What am I doing wrong?" Which is pretty close to what's wrong with me. [0:43:02]
CLIENT: Mm-hmm.
THERAPIST: And then I think those kinds of thoughts and questions reinforce feeling badly. And it almost like sort of spirals down, right? And if you're unable to stop that train of thought and move your head to another space then you spiral down to the, "Well I should move out of the house. Or leave Josh. Or leave grad school." I mean that's like the far end of it. You don't always get way over there. But I think that that starting to think, "What else should I be doing? What am I not doing to get better?"
CLIENT: Mm-hmm.
THERAPIST: Is kind of the start of that. 
CLIENT: Yeah. And then I start getting actually even more tangled up in things. Because good gosh well I need more friends to be with and hang out. But then I join these things and it exhausts me. It's –
THERAPIST: Remember that sheet of thinking patterns that we looked at a couple of sessions ago?
CLIENT: Yeah. 
THERAPIST: I wonder what that is on that sheet. I'm guessing it's one of them. 
CLIENT: So I feel stuck because the things I think will help me also are exhausting. So I don't have any energy. [0:44:12]
THERAPIST: Mm. 
CLIENT: I'm sure maybe—it doesn't feel like an over-exaggeration or anything. 
THERAPIST: And it might not be. I guess part of that sheet it doesn't matter so much if it's true. 
CLIENT: Mm-hmm.
THERAPIST: It matters so much if it's helping you. And those thoughts, while they might be somewhat true—you're right. Those things—trying lots of things is exhausting. You're right. And I'm not hundred percent sure without looking at the sheet but it's also little bit of fortune telling or predicting the future. 
CLIENT: Yeah. Gosh. I guess that is what I do. I mean it was really helpful when you had said just to state what is happening right at the moment. Although again it's almost sometimes impossible to stop my mind from just going. 
THERAPIST: Right now that process is automatic because it happens so much. [0:45:01]
CLIENT: (inaudible) Yeah. 
THERAPIST: It's very—it's like a very well oiled track. You've traveled down that path of those kinds of thoughts very often so it's really easy to slide right down that path. Because that's one you keep using over and over, right? It's like if you've ever walked along there are certain paths in the grass that are well worn. They've almost created additional path right? Because everybody walks in that same path. That's what your thoughts do. 
And remembering to pull back and notice, "Oh I'm sort of spinning into the future here." And pulling back and saying, "What's going on right now? Right now I'm at a meeting and I'm listening to these other people talk. And I'm wishing I had their energy." If you could stay right there—it's not necessarily going to give you a whole lot more energy. 
CLIENT: Mm-hmm. 
THERAPIST: But it might not add on the exhaustion that you're imagining you would feel if also tried this, this, this and the other thing. 
CLIENT: Yeah. 
THERAPIST: So I think right now it's kind of practice at pulling back to where you are so that you only have to deal with what's going on right in the moment. You don't have to deal with everything that might happen next. [0:46:03]
CLIENT: It's really hard. 
THERAPIST: It is really hard. And it's practice. I mean noticing when it's happening. And catching it and practicing it over and over again until it gets a little bit more routine. I'm not expecting you to catch that all of the time right now. It's –
CLIENT: Last night I was thinking about my dad's ridiculous hypnotherapy tape that he gave me. In which you think of a magical stop sign. I was trying to think of a magical stop sign. But I don't know. Lately Josh and I have both been—sort of gotten into the bad habit of teasing each other when we do stuff that's (inaudible at 00:46:44). Awful. 
But we were in the hospital and Josh was starting to get really freaked out because the doctor—there are so many doctors. I don't know why he had so many more than usual. Probably because they were confused as to why they couldn't fix him. (inaudible at 00:46:55)
THERAPIST: Well that and he's an interesting case. So everybody wants to see him. [0:46:58]
CLIENT: Yeah. There seemed like there were a lot of students there. There were a million cardiologists that kept coming in and (inaudible at 00:47:04)
THERAPIST: (inaudible) is a teaching hospital. So. 
CLIENT: Yeah. And they kept freaking out over his heart rate and his blood pressure. And then he was starting to get kind of paranoid. (laughs) Paranoid. 
THERAPIST: (inaudible at 00:47:13)
CLIENT: Like my dad keeps telling the story about giving himself claustrophobia. (inaudible at 00:47:19) He was asking if he (inaudible) claustrophobic (inaudible). So I was teasing him that he was being like my dad. It's the same thing I do when I tell myself that I'm going to have problems and then have problems. (laughs) Which then just makes me feel worse. 
THERAPIST: Mm. Because you don't want to be like your dad? 
CLIENT: No. 
THERAPIST: But if you can use a little humor sometimes that helps. 
CLIENT: Yeah. Yeah. 
THERAPIST: Well we do have to stop there for today. 
CLIENT: Oh my (inaudible). 
THERAPIST: It's my job to notice that. I noticed. And then next week we're on for Tuesday morning. 
CLIENT: Yep. 
THERAPIST: (inaudible at 00:47:54)
CLIENT: Yep. There were two weeks where it set for 3:30 (inaudible at 00:48:00) thinking about last week? 
THERAPIST: I may have changed it on you. 
CLIENT: Change it? Okay, good. 
THERAPIST: So yeah next week is the 30th and where I have us for 9:30. And then we skip a week. And then we're back to your 3:30 on the 13th. (pause at 00:48:21] until [00:48:33)
CLIENT: Sorry. 
THERAPIST: That's okay. You can't make your phone go any faster than it goes. 
CLIENT: Oh. I'm trying to find (inaudible at 00:48:45). 
THERAPIST: If you get home and realize that it doesn't jive with what you have or doesn't work for you let me know. 
CLIENT: Okay. So it was next Tuesday –
THERAPIST: I have next Tuesday the 30th at 9:30. 
CLIENT: Okay. 
THERAPIST: And then I'm away the first week of November. 
CLIENT: Okay. 
THERAPIST: And then I have us back at 3:30 starting the 13th. 
CLIENT: Okay. 
THERAPIST: And then I have that continuing without interruptions until the end of time. Or until the winter holidays. 
CLIENT: I believe that I gave you a check including today. 
THERAPIST: Yes you did. 
CLIENT: Perfect. Perfect. [0:49:27] [end of audio]
END TRANSCRIPT
