<font size="4"><b>Twenty-One</b></font>

WHEN I saw the studio and setup in Washington, I realized
that here I could certainly keep myself busy and be happy.
I was put up in a hotel until an apartment could be found,
and given an immediate schedule.


The first week I spent most of my fifty dollars before it was
due. The second week I made seventy-five, and by the end
of the month I had been sold on enough commercial spots
and programs to bring me nearly two hundred a week.


On the strength of relief and optimistic hope for the future,
I went a bit overboard with my drinking. In overcrowded
Washington there was no apartment immediately available,
so I was living at the station; out of a storeroom that had a
door leading directly into the studio, I had made a very comfortable
bedroom.


Off duty one day I had gone places and done things and
was feeling a bit gay. Passing through the studio to my room
I made some flippant remark to the announcer on duty, and
to put a flourish on it, stepped up to the microphone and
added something that, to me, at the time probably seemed
very bright; but to Ben Larsen, who was listening in at home,
it proved a point.


Things happened so fast that I knew he must have been
waiting for me to make just some such mistake. He had a plan
all prepared. Without even stopping to put on a hat Larsen
jumped in his car and tore to the studio. As I was going out,

[p. <i>255</i>]

Here treatment was approached differently than at Kecley.
This rough method was designed to bring you to the point
where you hated the sight, the smell, and the taste of whisky.


It began by your being given some nauseating stuff at intervals,
by injection in the skin of the chest, strategically just
under the nose to let you have the full benefit of the dreadful
aroma. This was followed by a dose of whisky to drink, not
good whisky, and beer, warm beer. This was continued until
you got sick and vomited; if for any reason this didn't result
(with me it didn't), then you got a dose of mustard in hot
water. The theory, of course, was to make you periodically
deathly sick; then they cleaned you up, made you rest, and
before you knew it, it was mealtime. They gave you just
enough time to digest the meal and obtain some nourishment
from it, and then started the process all over again. You
drank, and you got sick; you slept, you read. They brought in
another meal; then you drank again, got sick, and so on.
It was a horrible process, scheduled to take about three weeks.
Many a patient just couldn't take it, got up, and walked out.
But I did not want to lose this job by drinking; if this cure
had any chance of doing me some good, I'd take it, to the
bitter end. I hurriedly wired for Eunice to come.


When it was over, they equipped me with a lot of vitamin
tablets, and bade me good-by. No sooner was I out the door
than I began thinking of places where you could get a glass
of beer, <i>cold</i>.


Harry Martinsen, a neighbor from Smithtown near Ronkonkoma,
was stationed in Washington with the Navy. He
had come with Eunice to drive me away from Greenhill. I
clung to their company and made sure that we stayed together
until far into the night. There were things I wanted to say,
things I wanted to hear. In the next day or two I'm sure I
came to the realization that at least part of my problem was

[p. <i>256</i>]

I found a part-time job selling Bibles. Having been reared
as I was, I figured I knew enough about the Good Book to
get me by. The job turned out to be one of the most heart-warming
and at the same time funniest I had ever had.


My territory was in the colored sections around the city
of Washington. The sales campaign was geared to the well-known
instinct in colored people for religion, and especially
the Bible. The job had a few gimmicks. Purchasers were
given all the time in the world to pay for their Bibles; they
could pay as little as five cents a week, even every two weeks
or every month. Signing up to purchase a Bible automatically
made them members of a special Bible society, and there was
a monthly premium, colored pictures illustrating certain
Bible stories.


No matter how poor the neighborhoods there always
seemed to be an abundance of laughter. A wrinkled old lady,
grinning toothlessly, would shyly offer me a cookie fresh from
a ramshackle oven; an old uncle, leaning heavily on his cane,
would tell me about one day at Chickamauga; you counted
on your fingers (behind your back) and weren't sure he'd
actually been there, but from the look of him he could have
been, and he told his story with a patriotism as tranquil as a
summer day, as sure as the tide washing the shore. The home
I visited might be a seething tenement or just a little shanty
overrun with mammies, pappies, aunties, uncles, and glossy-eyed
pickaninnies. Since it was wartime, despite the fact that
many of these folks scarcely had enough food to eat, they
seemed able to buy war stamps; but when I came along with
this tantalizing offer of a shiny new Bible and beautifully colored
pictures, there seemed to be a problem whether to buy
their war stamps or the Good Book. I just couldn't press the
sale. The clinchers I was taught I never used; the samples I
was allowed I gave away. I walked many a mile, I made no
money; but I learned so much of a world unknown to me
before that I could well afford to call it square.


I put in at least an hour or two every day, visiting program

[p. <i>257</i>]

In line with the determination to keep myself too busily
occupied to leave any time for mischief, I spent as many evenings
as possible at the Stage Door Canteen, doing what I
could to entertain the servicemen. Also I located a "get your
patent by mail" company (to be more exact, it was the Chartered
Institute of American Inventors) and arranged to do
part-time work for them, drawing up amateur inventors'
plans and reducing what was patentable to technical description.
This not only afforded extra money but renewed the
fascination of my days of study in Pittsfield and my drafting
courses.


One of my sponsors was a home-decorating outfit. After a
period of describing how to make over furniture and appearing
in public with their demonstrator, I took up the hobby
myself. I was attracted by Peter Hunt's ideas and antiqued a
desk and some run-down chairs.


I heard about several members of Congress who had taken
up knitting and weaving as a relief from the pressures of
wartime legislating, and I joined a class; I mastered the art
of making hats and scarves, and they came in handy as Christmas
gifts.


Oddly enough drinking did not bother me for some time
after I was released from the sanitarium. I was conscious that
Larsen's eye was on me, and therefore I behaved and did a
very good job at the station. As I look back, I realize that a
fight was starting within me; with my job at WWDC the
gates of radio had again swung open for me a little, and I
was willing to fight to keep them open until I worked my
way well inside once more. Yet with all the hard work, the
many duties, and the extras, I was conscious of a subtle, irritating
uneasiness; I couldn't put a finger on it, but it was
there.


One night, when I was enjoying the opening of a new night
club, a special invitation affair, I found myself at a table with
two executives from another station, WMAL, the Washington
outlet of the blue network of the National Broadcasting
Company and a competitor of WWDC. Of these two men,

[p. <i>258</i>]

Gradually it dawned on me that, thinly hidden in all their
chitchat, a job was being offered me. They managed to get
from me the fact that I was not tied to Larsen by contract.
They let me know that they could offer me at least as much
money as I was now getting and a network affiliation in addition
to local programs of a higher standard. "Anytime you
feel like it," they wound up, "drop into our office for a talk."


I spent the next few days in weighing this prospect against
the allegiance due Mr. Larsen and WWDC, and also what I
owed myself in my campaign to put my career back on its
feet. I knew I could never be happy remaining permanently
in Washington or, for that matter, any other town but New
York, no matter how high I might rise again. To satisfy myself
I had to climb the heights in New York again, where I
had started, where I had succeeded, where I had failed.


Twice I went to Ben Larsen, suggesting that I had earned
a contract for a specified period of time. Each time he refused,
hedging. I told myself that if a man wouldn't take your allegiance
on reasonably even terms, that ended your debt.
Pulled by the weight of a chain affiliation, I made the change.


Several things happened now to help me in my personal
fight. First of all I was given an early-morning disk-jockey
job. WMAL had a knotty problem of competition with Washington's
most popular morning announcer, Arthur Godfrey.
They decided that if there was any one place where Broken-shire
could prove himself it would be in going out and nabbing
a sizable chunk of Godfrey's audience and rating. They
put me opposite him.


My disk-jockey programs became loaded with commercials.
Starting with three, I soon had thirty-three and could only
play half a record at a time. When the ratings came out, they
showed that I had nosed Godfrey out of first position, the
first time in his history that that had happened.


By far the greatest value of this was to bolster my self-confidence.
But also I was given the coveted audience-participation
show called "Pin Money," which WMAL broadcast

[p. <i>259</i>]

Soon a great wish was realized when I was selected to announce
a dramatic show, originating in Washington and carried
by the network. Now there was reason to hope for things;
the uneasiness that stirred within me was explained; I wanted
only to use this job as a springboard to get me back on the
big time, as the interval at WCAU in Philadelphia had
pushed me back on Columbia.


Washington felt good to me now as I drove to work in the
dark of the morning and home in the early afternoon; one
day, with a smile, I could say, "Thank you every much; I'll
see you again," but from the other end of the radio wires;
I'd be on my way back to New York City.


I was driving home one day in early September when a
traffic light changed suddenly. I jammed the brake pedal to
the floor boardand nothing happened. The brake was out
of order, and I piled into a heavy Buick just ahead. Both cars
were considerably damaged, and I was dazed. The accident
occurred directly in front of a charming little house; its occupants
rushed out, helped me into their living room, sat me
in a big soft chair, and hurried to give me a drink of very
good liquor. In the light of the fact that that drink started
me off on a binge, the accident itself, painful and costly to
me though it was, was nothing. Now I don't say that to an
alcoholic a drink under such circumstances will always have
the same result, but I do say it's a risk. In my particular case,
under the stress and strain of my life, that one drink led
relentlessly to another and another; for the next month I
fought alcohol as well as the problems of my work.


On a Sunday, returning on the train from Philadelphia
with the then victorious world-champion professional football
team, the Washington Redskins, whose broadcasts I had
been covering all fall, doing the local color, things really got
rolling. Eunice had made this trip with me, and I left her happily
engaged in conversation with a former radio colleague
of ours in New York, John S. Young, who happened to be
on the train, while I took off to the private car of the team
to congratulate Sammy Baugh and the rest of the boys. There

[p. <i>260</i>]

I don't remember getting off that train, but I do remember
in days that followed making the rounds from one doctor's
office to another, trying to get help in checking the
drinking that now was thoroughly frightening to me.


Thus far my lapses had been concealed from the station,
and as a vacation was due, I hurried to record a backlog of
shows so I could spend the Christmas holidays in Long Island.


Being in New York again I guess put an edge on my obsession.
Now Washington got on my nerves! I went back to
work, but the station irked me. I was drinking all the time
now, and it was the same old story. Late in January there
were several days I couldn't work. It was the familiar cycle
again, the fang of the snake that bit me; a drink to get well,
which of course made me worse than the drinking I did to
cover the guilt. Nothing interested me any more. Undeserved
malice piled up against the very people who were making my
comeback possible. In a mood that nothing could hold back
I called Ken Berkeley and proceeded to explain to him in
colorful words of one syllable how he ought to run WMAL;
I pointed out that his biggest mistake was in not having
humanized the relationship between himself and the artists;
I wound up by resigning my job.


When I was in that condition, things always happened fast.
Thirty minutes after resigning I was on the train bound for
New York. At the station I called Eunice, told her what I
had done, and that I would write her from New York. It was
a ridiculous and dangerous way to re-enter the city where in
any case I had such a battle on my hands, but I told myself
that at least it landed me geographically where I had to be.


I headed straight for Lake Ronkonkoma. For a few days I
got along by cashing small checks on a Washington bank, in
which my account already was overdrawn. But I soon found
out that it was no good trying to fight my way alone. I called
Eunice to get a trucking company to pick up our furniture
and move it home to the lake, that I was not coming back to
Washington, and for her to get to the lake herself as fast as
she could.

[p. <i>261</i>]

We got the house settled, and I began to look for work.
On one of my trips into New York I ran across an owner of
a small Brooklyn station, WBYN, who offered me a hundred
a week and lots of publicity if I would come and announce
the Dolly Sisters show. They were bringing back a lot of old-timers.


Although this was getting back in radio by the hack door
for fair, I needed the money so badly that I agreed to work
a couple of hours nightly for him and began commuting from
Lake Ronkonkoma to Brooklyn. It turned out to be the most
distasteful bit of broadcasting I had ever done. I soon learned
that the whole build-up was done in an attempt to sell the
station After the first show I began to fortify myself for the
broadcasts in adjacent bars.


The first broadcast of my second week was my last. After
it was over, I not only had several fast ones before making
my train, I got a carton of beer to take on the train with me.


As usual Eunice went to the station to meet the train. She
was told that the train was half an hour late. When it finally
came in, everyone ran for cars and taxis; Eunice kept looking
for me, but no Brokenshire. Suddenly, in the darkness, one
of the last passengers to get off paused and said, "You're Mrs.
Brokenshire, aren't you?"


She nodded.


"Did you know there was an accident?"


She laughed. "Oh, the Long Island railroad is always having
accidents."


He looked at her anxiously. "You don't understand, Mrs.
Brokenshire. The accident was to your husband." He went
on to explain. "I was playing cards with some of the boys,
and one of them knows your husband. As a matter of fact he
saw your husband just before he fell off the train. A bit later
the conductor came through the car and explained to the
passengers that the train would proceed as soon as they removed
the body."


Now we can never be absolutely sure of anything in this
world, but I'm pretty nearly sure that that particular accident
was the biggest single turning point in my life. It must have
knocked some sense into me.

[p. <i>262</i>]

What happened was that I had sat alone on the train as
long as I could stand it. Seeing a bunch of soldiers in the
vestibule, finally I got up with my carton of beer and went
and offered the boys a drink. One guy was pugnacious; he
was having his troubles with a nearby M. P.; in a quarrelsome
mood already he wheeled around at me and not only knocked
the carton out of my hands, but pushed me so hard that I
lost my balance, tripped over something, and fell off the train.
Since the train had just pulled out of Westbury station, the
brakeman had not yet closed the doors.


The train was pretty well underway. The place where I
landed was banked with crushed stone and cinders, slanting
toward the tracks. Why, when I hit, I didn't roll back under
the wheels, God alone knows, for I was knocked unconscious.
They told me later that somebody pulled the emergency cord,
and within minutes an ambulance and the police were there.
I was picked up and taken to Meadowbrook Hospital.


When I came to, hours later, I found that my head was
bandaged and my left arm paralyzed. The nurses found me
wandering down the hall, looking for the way out of the hospital;
I only wanted to go home. It was early in the morning;
no matter what alarming pictures they painted of the
risk, or the fearful outcome they tried to implant in my mind,
I insisted on going home. They called Eunice, and by the
time she arrived I had signed myself out, assuming full responsibility
for anything that might come of it.


After one day at home I found myself possessed of a great
confidence. I could not use my arm, but I had no fear. I was
convinced that the same God who takes care of the sparrow
and the lilies of the field was caring for me; I knew this very
surely and deeply.


It was only a couple of days later that a fellow by the name
of Foffee, a complete stranger to me, knocked at the door
and explained to me that he had just purchased the Silver
Slipper Club. And finding that he had more than he could
do to handle extensive alterations he was making, he wondered
if he could get me to lend a hand.


It seemed providential. I needed an interval of peace in
which to put myself to rights. Working with my hands always

[p. <i>263</i>]

Foffee arranged to send someone to my house to pick up
my electric saw and set it up on his premises. I went to the
lumberyard and ordered supplies. With that electric saw and
one undamaged arm I proceeded to do my job. I built a new
bar. Little by little I found myself using the paralyzed arm,
fingers first, then hand, then the whole arm, thus disproving
the fear shared by the good doctors who had examined me
at the hospital. I had no quarrel with their thinking what they
felt they must; I was just thankful I had my own brand of
occupational therapy.

