TRANSCRIPT OF AUDIO FILE:
______________________________________________________________________________
BEGIN TRANSCRIPT:
CLIENT: (sighs) I made it here in a brief—
THERAPIST: You look dry.
CLIENT: Yeah it was very exciting. (Pause) I've also been super crazy, anxious, stressed all week (pause) worrying about my cousin and also just, I guess those two things, one worrying about my cousin Daniel. He called this morning while I was on the way to work I hopped off the bus to talk to him. His kidney functions have improved but they're also doing some kind of procedure to try to figure out what the fuck is going on, a catheter probe through his groin, and I'm like— [00:01:08]
THERAPIST: What are they looking at? 
CLIENT: (inaudible at 00:01:12) So I was going to talk to him but also I'm just like you've been in the hospital for a week and (pause) you're not dead but you're not, it doesn't seem like he's really, like he's improving but I'm amazed he's still in the hospital. I'm sure he's on Medicare and I'm like they're actually going to pay for this much hospital?
THERAPIST: Right.
CLIENT: Jesus.
THERAPIST: Right, right, because they do a major procedure and you're out in two hours, that kind of thing.
CLIENT: Exactly and I'm like why are they still keeping you? And there's no way to politely say that, like "so why haven't they thrown you out of the hospital yet?" [00:02:04] (Pause) So there's that and Daniel for whatever reason is also, he broods and is always, I don't know he has this thing where he, I think because he's estranged from his mom and she died and he was estranged from her family for a little while. Well I mean he was in jail so. (Pause) He's always worried that (pause) and I think he's protective, he's always worried that we're going to stop talking to him and that we're going to cut him out and then that leaves him feeling like. So I hadn't called one of my aunts or cousins in a while and he'd become convinced that I was doing that deliberately, like I was refusing to call them as opposed to just they haven't called me I haven't called them, no real reason. [00:03:06] And so he's like "here's her number", you know we were kinda back-and-forthing on that. 
(Pause) Then I called my dad to talk to him and tell him what was going on and he clearly was stressed and worried about it. He even said that he's glad that I called because he'd been wondering and worrying and I'm just like, because you know he doesn't do that.
THERAPIST: Yeah. Sorry.
CLIENT: It's okay. (Pause)
(Static)
THERAPIST: Alright, it may happen again, if it does I'll do something else with it. [00:03:58]
CLIENT: (Chuckles) And also my mom had sent me this e-mail last night where she's like, it's my parents' 45th wedding anniversary this weekend which is, you know, lovely so they're going to be in New York. And my birthday is this weekend, so my mom's like you should come to New York with us and celebrate my wedding anniversary, also we should drive up and do things with you all day on your birthday. My first thought is basically NO! (therapist chuckles) No no no no no! And then this morning I was like, okay I could have lunch with them and suffer. That will be okay (pause). And so I was trying to convey this to my dad and he was sort of like, to me he was kind of caught up in thinking about Daniel and was like, what are you talking about? What Saturday? Then I talked to my mom and she was like, okay fine we'll talk to each other on Saturday.
THERAPIST: Right. [00:05:00]
CLIENT: And I think my mom's feelings might have been hurt that I initially said I was busy all weekend, but I don't know. (Pause) The other thing about Daniel is I'm like, all these medical problems are the things that are in my family history like the kidney problems, the high blood pressure, heart disease.
THERAPIST: Sorry, I just had a thought that I want to mention, which is that (pause) the first thought was when you talk about your dad's reaction saying he's been worried and stressed out that, for your dad, is like the equivalent of a total, dramatic, humongous freak-out right?
CLIENT: Yeah
THERAPIST: I mean at his volume that's like what for somebody else would be breaking furniture and 
CLIENT: Yeah [00:06:03]
THERAPIST: totally losing it. And then I thought (pause) I think it's more so than your dad with you but it's a little like that with you as well, the way you're telling me about how, you said that you've been freaking out all weekend, all week sorry. And you're telling me how you've been freaking out and why and what's contributing I think.
CLIENT: Mm-hmm.
THERAPIST: But yet, you're sort of like, manner and affect are not those of someone who is obviously
CLIENT: Freaking out.
THERAPIST: Freaking out, yes. I completely believe that you've been freaking out, I'm just pointing this out.
CLIENT: Yeah. I am my father's daughter (chuckles) in a lot of ways. 
THERAPIST: Yeah.
CLIENT: And not surprising, my mom when I talked to her was like, oh your dad's been depressed for some reason about this Daniel thing. (therapist laughs) Mom! Whoa! So then we had an argument about whether or not it was reasonable for my father to have feelings (chuckles) about this. [00:07:10]
THERAPIST: I see.
CLIENT: Which I kind of dropped because I'm like, oh my God.
THERAPIST: Right.
CLIENT: (Pause) But yeah.
THERAPIST: But seeing your father have the feelings (pause) and your mom really isn't sure that's a good idea for
CLIENT: I think she's pretty sure it's a bad idea. (Pause) Yeah, I'm confident of that.
THERAPIST: Yeah.
CLIENT: (Pause) It's not only a bad idea, there's no reason to have them.
THERAPIST: Right. (Pause, throat being cleared) I'm trying to think of what else is that like the (pause) you know people who keep dangerous pets. (pause) I guess some people do that but why would you do that? Or is it like
CLIENT: Yeah I [00:08:13]
THERAPIST: Maybe these are things that people who have dangerous or self-destructive habits, which is sort of what feelings are like to your mom? It does make a lot of sense, sort of dangerous and weird.
CLIENT: Yeah. I mean, it's not clear to me under what circumstances it's okay to have strong emotions because her mother's death included one of those occasions where you can't do that for too long. And I'm like, mom that was your mother dying. And she's still like (growling). I think a brief period of upset was allowed but don't go crazy.
THERAPIST: Yeah.
CLIENT: (Pause) I think my mom said there definitely is some time where emotions are okay, but it's just that.
THERAPIST: That may be more in the abstract? [00:09:06]
CLIENT: Yeah, abstractly one could be upset over things. But in practice you shouldn't.
THERAPIST: Right.
CLIENT: (Pause) Yeah. 
THERAPIST: (Pause) And I don't know, in terms of the similarity with your dad, my impression is that though you may present it at a low volume that inside, my impression is, that the volume is quite high. That inside you really can feel very freaked out and very upset and very overwhelmed and loose ends. I don't know if with your dad it's like that too?
CLIENT: I don't know.
THERAPIST: Or if it's more like (pause) maybe, sort of external volume is like two and internal volume is like three, whereas for you the external volume might be three and the internal volume might be eight.
CLIENT: Yeah. I honestly don't know. [00:10:25]
THERAPIST: Yeah.
CLIENT: At least sometimes the external volume is two and the internal volume is eight. (Pause) But (pause) it's (pause) one of these big things is he doesn't want to worry, he doesn't want to worry my mom or myself or my brother about things and so he just continues, if he doesn't say that he's stressed or upset then no one else is worried and so that's good. (Pause) Which leads to various arguments like why didn't you tell me you were going to the hospital?
THERAPIST: Sure, yeah people also like to be connected.
CLIENT: Yeah. It's sort of (pause), it's this weird ongoing argument with my parents over them telling me when things are happening medically.
THERAPIST: Right. [00:11:42]
CLIENT: Like my dad said, yes I said, that he's been at the doctor's office all week, and I'm like, doing what? (laughs)
THERAPIST: Right.
CLIENT: And you know, to go the doctor. Maybe I'll get it out of him tomorrow but (pause). He only mentioned it because I was saying how my cousin Daniel, one of the reasons he hasn't managed his diabetes is because he's scared of needles, he's scared of tests, he's (inaudible at 00:12:16) scared of all that. And my dad was like you just gotta deal with it, you know I've (inaudible at 00:12:22) after a week and you just do it. (Pause) And it was kind of funny because he said that and I'm like yeah dad but your entire family doesn't want to go to the doctor. Your mom didn't, your sisters don't, your brother didn't. So I don't think, to me it's not at all shocking that Daniel doesn't want to go to the hospital. I think that's a pretty, that's what our family does, what my father's side of the family does. (Pause) Which I find super maddening, but that is the way of it. [00:13:06]
THERAPIST: Mm-hmm. I'm sorry I don't mean to distract from your talking about the other things, I mean I know this is one of them, that were stressing you out from the week
CLIENT: You didn't distract.
THERAPIST: Okay, good.
CLIENT: I think I'm just distracting myself because I'm stressed. (Pause) The other thing that was definitely frustrating (pause) so on Tuesday I told Chet that I didn't want to have our weekly meeting because I was going to be working in HR all week. And I said it a lot more, kind of forcefully and bluntly. It was more of a statement than a question, which I didn't really mean to but that's how it came out. And he looked flustered; I'm just like mmm it's happening. So I was working over in HR, in the HR office this week mostly which I don't usually do (pause), like I'm preparing papers to be deployed. [00:14:26]
And Wednesday I was over there and I was going to go work on this project and my co-worker Christy who has the same job as me was there working on a project in the station so I couldn't do anything that I wanted to do because she was in the same station, and I was like, well whatever I'll just wait here, it's just going to be like half an hour, whatever. And we're kinda chatting, you know, about various things and her library is physically closing for three or four years, they're doing major renovations with the building. So we were talking about how she had gone to some talk or some HR thing last week and one of the managers said "I just want to thank everyone here for doing such great work during these difficult times" and she's like thank you for doing this, thank you for coming in, thank you for continuing to do that. And she was saying how, and we were talking about how the transition team hasn't actually done that, they've never really thanked us for doing that.
THERAPIST: Mm-hmm. [00:15:51]
CLIENT: They've more said that it's really good, it's great that you continue to work insanely hard with your resources, but it's not like (pause), it's just like that's great we need you to do that as opposed to thank you for doing that. And she was talking about how there's a really big difference and how she felt like, one thing that was really being addressed was that her building was closing and that was really stressful because, I mean, library's closing, everyone has to move, four people are retiring because they're like, fuck it I'm just, and two people have at least said that they do not want to deal with the library move. I'm just like, sure I wouldn't either. And it was brought up that I also feel like (sigh) it's really crazy that we're still working under a lay off threat that was made six months ago. We're just kind of like do-do-do-do-do. [00:17:01]
And one of the letters that was sent in this e-mail, the thing said look, we know it's very clear that you're not going to finish this all on June 30th-July 1st, so just say that. And also could you say something like, we've been working under a lay off threat and it's really stressful, so also if you could say something like sorry, or we won't make any decisions for three months, or anything. And (pause) so my co-worker Christy said "oh we don't need to worry about getting laid off". And I'm like that's not true, I mean, whatever. I think everyone's job is up and (inaudible at 00:17:49) but you're doing it for cheap because they don't have to pay me like a real HR person because I'm getting union wages not professional wages. So, you know, a couple thousand dollars cheaper. Probably more. Anyway. So I'm cheap labor. [00:18:07]
And the transfer team is really into technology. And her next comment was, also there's so few people of color in the library system they're not going to lay you off. Which (pause) made me just so angry. I couldn't talk to her for about a minute because I just was, it's infuriating for so many reasons. It's a really horrible racist thing to say, it's also not true, also people of color were laid off in the last layoffs. Also if they cared about racial diversity they would do something and they haven't. And also, among all the reasons why it's really offensive, and hurtful is, I'm like are you saying I got my job because of my race? Because that's a great thing that you've been thinking for the last five years.
THERAPIST: Right. [00:19:20]
CLIENT: (Pause) And also just someone who I've known like, you know we have really the same job, like we actually have social overlap.
THERAPIST: She's like that in life outside of work?
CLIENT: Yeah outside of work she does a lot of art in the community, I also (inaudible at 00:19:41) do some of her arts councils so there's a certain level of (inaudible at 00:19:46) outside of work that overlap. Which is why she lives somewhat close to where I live. And I really didn't expect that from her. I've already gotten that from other co-workers, but that was not (pause). I didn't expect it, I also didn't expect it especially using the language she used. A lot of people say they'll never fire you because you're black, I'm like alright. But generally speaking people use the phrase 'people of color' they're kind of also signaling 'I'm coming at this from a relatively progressive, more enlightened viewpoint. [00:20:38]
THERAPIST: More enlightened, yep.
CLIENT: And so to get back to that like that I'm just like, it was not what I was expecting and I really wasn't ready for it. (Pause) And (pause) I very tersely was like, that's not true people got laid off last time, and p.s. they've done nothing about racism in the workplace when I make complaints so I have to go start from there. (Pause) And then we didn't talk about that anymore, because we were.
THERAPIST: (Pause) It doesn't sound very (inaudible at 00:21:24)
CLIENT: Yeah it's funny—
THERAPIST: I can understand, I'm just saying that's how it sounds.
CLIENT: Yeah, I didn't really realize I was upset, I mean I was upset about it but then that evening when I got home I brought it up with Ashby a couple times, and I'm like hmm, I think I'm still really mad about this. And then yesterday I also brought it up. I was just like, there were other work problems and I was just thinking of it again (pause, sighs, pause, sighs). [00:22:07]
I don't know, I mean, it's upsetting in about forty different ways and one of the ways is that people saying that makes me so angry is I'm like, okay if you happen to believe that the university will never fire someone who's a person of color there should be more people of color in the workplace. Right? It shouldn't just be me. P.S. they fired a black woman in my, they let a black woman in my department when they did layoffs last time so I'm like— Burn our department so it's kind of like I don't know where the fuck you're going with that. But, and there's really not.
THERAPIST: Well (pause) is some of it that it (pause) asserts that you have a sort of privilege? Like a privileged status in a way, or a special status in a way that's kind of the opposite of how things actually are? [00:23:14]
CLIENT: Yes. It's like this assertion that being a racial minority is an awesome advantage in the workplace when it's not. It's completely not! It's a disadvantage, and it's always been a disadvantage to me and it's been a huge disadvantage in HR and people are white at phone tech support every time some of the saw my face they were shocked because they thought I was white. I'm like fuck you. (Pause) So (pause) it's just like you said, some people say stupid things like, well you know affirmative action hurts white people, and I didn't get that job because they hired a black person. I'm like nah that didn't happen. You know? It really didn't happen.
THERAPIST: That reminds me, I think I've read it before, a little thing but that, some study where they sent out resumes have you heard about that one?
CLIENT: Oh yeah where white guys with a criminal record got called back to hire than black guys with no criminal record. [00:24:25]
THERAPIST: No this is a different one where people with names of people with color, like they went and talked to hiring managers—
CLIENT: Yes.
THERAPIST: and they were, oh you know we don't have an official affirmative action policy but we really try to emphasize that and we look for people of color and try to hire them. When they actually looked at who got response to their resumes it was the white people, and I think it this case level of education didn't matter or something not criminal record, but it was kind of analogous to that. And it was also contrary to what, you get the part that I'm emphasizing it sounds like what you're talking about, it was that the hiring managers made the claim that they were actually positively disposed and clearly their actions showed that they were not, they were just the opposite. [00:25:13]
CLIENT: Yes. I mean another thing which also I was thinking about as I was at this conference it was an invite only librarian conference which I got invited to because a friend of mine was speaking, and so I'm sitting and I'm like, ehh the room is totally white, awesome. I was also thinking about how many, it was sponsored, I'm like it's really annoying that there are this many male speakers and guys taking over the conversation, because we had a little break for table discussions, and my first one this guy just dominated the conversation like mad. And I'm like, you know it's really awkward how you're doing that and, okay you're replicating sexism and the domination of men's voices at our table. So— [00:26:07]
And so one of the people who was introducing the speakers had a very heavy accent, just super heavy, and she had clearly, because she was at my table and she was speaking kind of casually and then she was speaking to introducing. And when she was introducing someone she was clearly trying to mask that accent a little bit. But you could notice it, "speakah", I'm like yeah. And I was thinking how, so (pause) it's a heavy Northern accent but it's still a more acceptable accent than like a heavy black accent would be. And one of the things which always drives me crazy is I know part of my success in the marketplace is being, is that when I phone interview I sound white (laughs) so it's a little psych out.
THERAPIST: Yep. [00:27:19]
CLIENT: Which is like, I mean, (pause) people have asked me a lot 'how did you learn to sound like that?' 'did you concentrate?' I'm like this is how I sound. Nope, I grew up in suburbs. If you knew all my friends, they sound like this, my parents sound like this. And it's also a super different question if I'm getting from someone who's a person of color versus getting it from someone who's white. Because I remember my freshman year there was a guy who—
THERAPIST: College?
CLIENT: Freshman year of college, he was from Jersey, he was Black and Latino, and he was one of those success stories, like he was from a really poor school and he'd gotten into a magnet school and some businessman had personally mentored him and was like if you can get into MIT I will pay for you to go and make it possible for this to happen.
THERAPIST: Yep. [00:28:27]
CLIENT: And so he was asking me basically how did you drop your accent? And it was awkward because I'm like I didn't. I could tell that he, part of what his mentor was suggesting and part of for him what going to MIT was was learning how to sound and look like a member of the elite (pause), which is, you know, a useful strategy but I wouldn't have anything helpful to add I'm just like I grew up in the white suburbs.
THERAPIST: (Laughs) Right.
CLIENT: And the other part is I would have, I also have white people asking me because there's such a strong assumption—
THERAPIST: Because he was looking for advice.
CLIENT: He was looking for advice and I was like, I really wish I could help you but I can't, you know, sorry. And so (pause) it wasn't a bad conversation, it was more just kind of like, oh, I hadn't really thought, I'd never truly thought about it. [00:29:40]
And then I had white students who just assumed that I came from a city and that I obviously had a secret, urban ghetto voice in me that I was cleverly covering up and I didn't have to do that around them. It's like, I'm from the white 'burbs, I'm from someplace like where you grew up so stop. 
(Pause) Which also ties into my cousin, my family in Cincinnati who are all black have different levels of accents and standard English southern American vernacular. (Pause) And I do, it does (pause) it's this kind of thing that frustrates me is that part of the reason, there's many reasons why my cousin Daniel has a hard time getting and maintaining a job and has been stuck at entry level positions.
THERAPIST: Yep.
CLIENT: A criminal record is one of them, but—
THERAPIST: I would imagine that the combination of a criminal record, black and being a big guy— [00:31:05]
CLIENT: Yep.
THERAPIST: must be hell on that kind of thing.
CLIENT: Yeah he gets, the jobs that he's usually able to get are like delivery, like pizza delivery and things like that or like working in a warehouse. And the other thing is that he does not speak standard American English, he has a heavy accent sometimes I have a hard time understanding him on the phone. (Pause) And I'm like, well (pause) unfortunately that's not helping. And (pause) there's nothing like, it's just sort of like, well things that are making your life more miserable or more difficult is you're this big guy, you're a big black guy, you have dark skin, your criminal record, you speak in a heavily accented voice, your white girlfriend has a similar accent but (pause) people care about that less because she's white. It's just sort of like part of what marinates in my head when I think about it, when I think about my cousin, my family in Cincinnati and sort of— [00:32:28]
THERAPIST: I see it's like, you think that they have more trouble?
CLIENT: Yeah. And sort of (pause), one of the things I do think about is sort of the getting ahead versus not getting ahead. And so my father and all his siblings really wanted their kids to do well in school, go to college, and part of all of that is (pause). So my dad, his sibling are all perfectly capable of speaking standard English and then code switching and speaking in more vernacular when they're around Black friends. And so—
THERAPIST: Is that the term for it, code switching?
CLIENT: Yeah. Yes code switching is—
THERAPIST: Yeah, I get it.
CLIENT: Is that. So they all did that. And it's occasionally funny because my, sometimes my father's visiting his family I'm just like, where did that voice come from? What dad? And he doesn't notice it particularly I don't think, but I'm just like, huh that's interesting. And I think my cousins, like my generation, see that form of code switching as being negative. [00:33:54] (Pause) I mean (inaudible at 00:33:58). I'm like, well you're right, you shouldn't have to do that, I completely agree. That said, you're stuck in a racist system that is going to punish you if you don't. And I'm kind of like, you never have to, but (pause) for me I'm like, being aware of, like my cousin Caleb (sp?) can code switch and basically refuses to because he feels that talking proper or whatever is being really booshie (sp?) and being a sell out and all these other things. And I'm like, you know, whatever Caleb.
END TRANSCRIPT
