Transcript of Audio File:
______________________________________________________________________________
BEGIN TRANSCRIPT:
THERAPIST: Where should we start today?
CLIENT: I don't know. I'm still having trouble being motivated to do things. I did end up dying yarn last week, last Tuesday. And but since then - I guess maybe part of it was the heat wave and it was oh I can write cover letters. Oh no wait, it is too hot to write cover letters and especially Thursday it took so long to get Sydney' room to be at a temperature that was actually habitable and it just was too hot to do anything.
THERAPIST: It was a very hot week.
CLIENT: Yes. I mean I guess yesterday was better but it's just - and I still have the wall shelves that I got from my parents that are still in the back of Sydney's car, we haven't put them up yet. And that's partially because that's at least a two-person or a taller than me person job so it's not like I can do that myself. So that's part of the reason why it hasn't gotten done. And now we're worrying about Sydney having to move and getting caught up in helping him do that that I'm just not saving anything for myself. No cover letters or anything. And I don't know but part of it is the whole it seems so pointless anyways and part of it is it's miserable out and now it's raining and I don't really know what to do because it's just - it really doesn't seem to make a difference whether or not I write them anyways.
And I did look at the jobs this week and there weren't any that were what I was actually looking for. There's some that I could in theory apply for but not that many. And for some reason everybody is looking for a library director. People aren't looking for an assistant librarian or something like that or assistant archivist or whatever. Actually I don't even think there were any archivist positions posted last week. So, yes, I'm just not really seeing that many things and so it's just really hard. And I still haven't done any of the whole contacting people. I don't know. It just feels like such a long jump to ask the person that gathers here whether or not she would actually want to sublet an apartment, you know, what to do to make the book and stuff. I just don't want to do it and then get shot down. So I've avoided doing it. [00:03:01]
THERAPIST: So what do you feel like your alternatives are?
CLIENT: Sit around, wait for Sydney to get a job. Once he gets a job then he'd be out of the house more and then I'd have nothing to do but write cover letters in theory. That's the thing because there aren't any real consequences. I can in theory just sit here and not do anything.
THERAPIST: Is that what you want?
CLIENT: Not really. I mean I'm starting soonish, theoretically at least, I'll be working on the grant for a month but that could start theoretically even tomorrow, so then I'll be doing something at least. Just wouldn't be doing anything towards finding something more permanent.
THERAPIST: That's a really good short-term, temporary solution. [00:04:10]
CLIENT: Yes. I could just find different places that had short-term grants and just lined up one after the other that I could do. But that's a really unlikely scenario and stuff so.
THERAPIST: And that would require - I mean you probably could find another short-term grant, but it would require, that requires a lot of proactive searching and applying, which doesn't seem to be your strength.
CLIENT: Yes. I'm not very good at being proactive unless I have to be. That's why school is so much easier. I had assignments and sometimes they were hard assignments, but they were assignments.
THERAPIST: That made you active.
CLIENT: Yes. And I would do whatever the teacher told me to do and hand it in, usually on time, and get a decent grade and that would be that. Or sometimes I would not put in as much effort and get a little bit less decent grade but it would still, it was an assignment. You did it; you got your grade.
THERAPIST: It seems like that was a - school was an area where you functioned really well because it was very specific and directed and laid out for you. Do this by this time, and there was a clear consequence of not handing something in on time or applying for the extension on time on the occasions that you needed to do that. And this process is much less structured, much less directed by an external force.
CLIENT: I mean once I have a job I'm sure I'll be able to do it just as well. I would have...
THERAPIST: Yes, that's an area where you are a little bit better suited. When you're given - once you have a job you'll be given very specific tasks, you'll know exactly what time you're supposed to get there and what time you'll leave, and it's this other area where you're being asked to create that structure and motivation direction for yourself where you're really struggling.
CLIENT: Especially because there's never an reward or anything. You just write cover letters and then never hear back. And it really sucks I can't just be given a job because I'm totally qualified to have a job, I'm just apparently not qualified to get a job because I don't have that proactiveness. I don't think that it means that I'm a bad person to not be proactive; it just means that...
THERAPIST: And I haven't heard anybody say that you're a bad person.
CLIENT: But apparently it's an essential skill I need in order to get a job. Except for people who get jobs handed to them, which sometimes does happen but not to me.
THERAPIST: It's not happening right here.
CLIENT: Yes.
THERAPIST: It seems like this situation of having to really go out and get a job, not have one handed to you, is requiring you to develop a skill that you haven't had the chance to really develop yet for whatever reason, being able to keep yourself moving and be proactive without a clear reward. You don't know - there is going to be a reward. Eventually there will be a job that you are selected for. But we don't know when that's going to be. We don't know which time, which cover letter is going to yield that good reward.
CLIENT: So any of them that I haven't heard back from in that way I actually thought it was going forward, but they didn't even bother contacting me for an interview, let alone giving me the job. And when I don't hear back from those, then I feel like it's less likely that I will get one of the ones that I'm less qualified for or way too over-qualified for or something like that. Theoretically lots of people I'm sure are qualified and applying for things but still. [00:08:27]
THERAPIST: It's frustrating and it's a hard thing to keep going at.
CLIENT: Yes. I just want to stop because it's not doing anything. It's not - I can't see visible difference, meaning writing cover letters and not writing cover letters other than I have to write these cover letters. Nothing different is happening when I write them as when I don't. It hasn't changed a single thing. Now it's summer so anyways maybe it's better to wait until things pick up again or something. I don't know.
THERAPIST: What do you think would feel different about officially taking a break?
CLIENT: I don't know. I don't know if I'd feel guilty about taking a break. I don't know if I could make myself actually officially take a break. I can only make myself unofficially take a break. Then, you know, oh taking a break? Oh, well fine I'll write this one. I hope I'll hear something. It seems like - I guess if I were taking a break then I wouldn't even be looking at things. Theoretically I guess I could take a break for the short period that I'll be working on the grant. That would be at least somewhat justified because I'd be working on the grant. It's not like the grant is going to take up all my time because it can't because the Educational Society is only open 20 hours a week anyways so... [00:10:51]
THERAPIST: So you're going to be there all 20?
CLIENT: Yes.
THERAPIST: So conceivably 20 hours that you could be job hunting?
CLIENT: Yes. So, I mean I did - Eve (ph) had told me that there's this company that some friend worked for that was called [All I Need] (ph). They edit term papers and the required skills that as I viewed them, an ivy-league degree and I have two Ivy League degrees. So she got me the information and I like editing papers and stuff, so I wrote the dude and he told me that I, well right now it's the slow time of year because it's summer and so if I didn't hear back in a few weeks then I should feel free to write back again. But I am in the database now. So that might be something. I don't know how much work that would be giving me, but at $15 an hour, which is 1.5 times as much as I would've been making if I were working at the hardware store for work that I get to sit down and do and it's intellectually stimulating. [00:12:18]
So something like that I would be fine. And if I could get 20 hours of work a week that would totally be enough to cover my expenses and everything. I don't know whether or not that's realistic; I have no clue what the situation is at all.
THERAPIST: But you followed up on that.
CLIENT: But I followed up on that because it was just writing one e-mail and because it was easy and something I was actually qualified to do.
THERAPIST: What made that easier than writing a cover letter?
CLIENT: For one thing because I didn't have to write a full cover letter. It was a sort of mini cover letter. It was mostly just saying that this person said you give a little bit about your credentials and so it was like I have these degrees; these are my areas of expertise; I've written lots of papers and I really like editing and stuff. That's really all I had to say so that's what made it easier. And then I guess because I knew someone who knew someone at least. I can't really do that normally with the cover letters.
THERAPIST: You networked.
CLIENT: Yes. But I can't apparently network and get an archive job because that hasn't happened yet. It is not working because I don't know the right people for that.
THERAPIST: Do you know how any of your classmates are doing with their job hunt? [00:14:16]
CLIENT: I don't. Kim might have but Kim graduated a semester before me and was looking all over the world, or at least all over the country. So I don't know about people who are looking for archives jobs here archiving because I would really - besides my group that I didn't - it wasn't like I wasn't close with...
THERAPIST: You were not close friends with the program?
CLIENT: Yes, because I didn't really hang out with people that often. Cassie's (ph) still in school. I don't know about Cam. She - as far as I know she's still working for the university library and being miserable at it but, I don't know, earning enough to pay, to cover expenses at least. I haven't really heard a lot about my classmates getting all the jobs ever. There weren't really that many people who graduated the same time I did as far as I know. Most people I think start in the Fall semester and graduate in May, you know, at the end of the Spring semester. Yes I don't really have any data to compare.
THERAPIST: I was thinking if other people had begun to get jobs then there's a networking opportunity, just knowing people from school.
CLIENT: Is it though if they get the job and that's the position that was open and then you don't get it and they do? [00:16:13]
THERAPIST: Well, networking is really about making connections and then following those connections. So the line doesn't stop with one position. The idea is that you know people who know people who know other people. It's a continual line; everybody knows somebody. It's not an end point of you know one person at one place and they filled that one position. That's not really networking. That's looking for a job opening through a person. The idea of networking is using and building relationships and allowing those relationships to extend through those other relationships.
CLIENT: See that also requires being proactive.
THERAPIST: Yes it does.
CLIENT: And being proactive when there isn't even a specific position, which in some ways is even worse than writing cover letters because at least cover letters are impersonal. If you end up writing something stupid and sounding stupid you won't really know because you just as likely not to hear back as if you write a good cover letter.
THERAPIST: I think being proactive is a very adult skill that you do need. It's about taking charge of and taking responsibility for your future rather than relying upon somebody else. In some ways doing the job search by solely looking at posted positions is fairly passive. You're waiting for someone else to shout out that they're looking for something and that's one piece of it. But a very adult skilled thing, this is what I want and I'm going to go seeking where it is or how to create it, takes that proactive stance. [00:18:23]
And it is risky. I think that's, what you're just getting is when you said well if I write a bad cover letter and I look stupid nobody really has - it can be sort of circumscribed who finds out about that. And taking a more active stance is risky because you are, you're letting lots of people know what you want and trying to advertise yourself as right for it, and that runs a risk of if it's not right, lots of people maybe knowing. And that feels risky. And I think that's kind of what you're avoiding, not wanting anyone to know that there's a potential for failure here.
CLIENT: It doesn't seem - it's not like I'm not proactive on anything ever. You know, when I was moving, I found myself a place to live.
THERAPIST: Yes, that's right.
CLIENT: And...
THERAPIST: You applied for school.
CLIENT: I applied for school; I got in. I've gotten into every single academic program that I've applied to that I haven't withdrawn an application from.
THERAPIST: And when you graduated, you went looking for the next thing. So these skills are there. There are times that you've used them.
CLIENT: I should do a Ph.D. program that has a stipend in it. Then I don't have to apply for jobs; then I could just apply for Ph.D. programs. I don't actually think that would be a good idea and there's not anything I would be - except for museum commandership and that would just make me even more over-qualified in five years or something. It would put it off for five years but - because apparently the only thing I could do is get academic degrees.
THERAPIST: You're really good at school. So how do we transfer the skills that you use to be really successful in an academic environment to the work environment? [00:20:33]
CLIENT: It's not the work environment itself, it's the getting the job.
THERAPIST: That's part of it.
CLIENT: It's the in between that's the problem. If I had a job I would be very good at it. I would do very good at my intern job and I finished all the things and sometimes, yes, okay so I had a supervisor who would tell me what to do. But I had a variety of projects to work on and as I felt like it and I'd get them all done. And...
THERAPIST: So it has to be good at this part of obtaining the job because I think you're right. I think in a position that would match up with your strength.
CLIENT: Or if it had...
THERAPIST: But the getting a job is a part of the work environment too.
CLIENT: Yes, I wish there was a way around it. Some people like to - not everyone in the world is proactive and I don't think everyone in the world who has a - who's employed is proactive either.
THERAPIST: But the world is asking you to be because this approach isn't working.
CLIENT: If there's some field that I'm not thinking of that wouldn't require me to be proactive and I can't think of one off the top of my head. I really can't.
THERAPIST: Well you've done a lot of brainstorming about branching out and we've talked about some ways to kind of branch out your search and it hasn't changed the pattern much. [00:22:01]
CLIENT: In general I feel like, well the few jobs that I've had - with the exception of [inaudible at 00:22:17] planned giving where it was actually an ad and I wrote the person and asked if they were still looking and they said yes and I had an interview a couple of days later and found out right away. That was a job that I applied for, sent a cover letter in and stuff and got. But the other ones have been either knowing someone or [inaudible]. That would be the other exception.
THERAPIST: How did you get into that? How did you find out about [inaudible]?
CLIENT: Well when I did it at University of Maryland there were other - well some of my friends were doing it and there were requirements where that you kept kosher in [inaudible at 00:22:51] so then when I was keeping kosher in [inaudible at 00:22:53] they needed more people so I became a Mashgiach. And it wasn't like I had to send out a resume or anything like that. People knew who you were and stuff. You had the training, which was mostly like Micky who was the adult person who was actually in charge, showing us everything that we needed to know. And senior year I became head Mashgiach and that was more because they needed a head Mashgiach. It wasn't really like I had these leadership skills and applied for the position. It was they needed people, the group we had. The thing about the compensation I got for being head Mashgiach was not really worth it, but that's okay.
And then at school then I found out they sent out an e-mail to the student considered [inaudible at 00:23:49] oh we're looking for a Mashgiach and I was like oh, I have done that before; I can do it again. So I sent the letter and got to be a Mashgiach. It was really that simple. That only works for student positions apparently. Or when I worked for the summer teaching knitting and crocheting at the summer camp, that was through the company that my mom used to work at. I did... [00:24:25]
THERAPIST: Right, networking.
CLIENT: Yes, I was networking. I did actually have an interview and stuff but it was like...
THERAPIST: Yes, and you found out about it through people.
CLIENT: People, yes. And then working at my dad's hardware store. I was working at my dad's hardware store. And I mean there was a summer that I worked as a counselor at a summer camp and I was sort of just there. It was after you graduated from high school and then the next year you'd be a counselor and the next year you'd be a counselor if you wanted. So I guess I sort of applied but there was an application process and I did have a fun interview and stuff but it wasn't really a hard one and I wasn't really writing a formal cover letter or anything like that or sending a resume and stuff. So most of the jobs I've had - and then the internships they're through school and I didn't even apply for them. And the one with the Educational Society, my friend was working there and said oh they could probably use more people so put me in touch with the director and then I started volunteering there. Fund giving is the only job that I legitimately applied to as a total stranger and got.
THERAPIST: So the majority of jobs that you've gotten knowing somebody, having some sort of personal connection to find out about it or be selected has helped because, like you said, only one was sort of a blind send in your letter and you got the job. I don't know if that translates to how you need to do it again, but it does seem like there's some evidence that the knowing someone, having a personal connection gives you an edge when your materials were sent in, if there are materials to be sent in. [00:26:30]
CLIENT: The problem is I don't know the people in the types of jobs that I actually want now. For once I would actually hate the Simmeon stuff. Even like knowing the people at Planned Giving it wouldn't really help if I wanted to work for them full time. If they had an opening, I would totally - if I was going to be an office assistant anywhere I would totally want to be there again because everyone there is really awesome and I like them. But at the same time, their [inaudible at 00:26:58] requires if it's not a student position it does require going through the whole Yale Human Resources, send in an impersonal application. They don't get any say in the first round or two. You interview with HR and knowing people doesn't help until maybe at the end when it finally gets down to people who actually work there getting to choose between maybe five candidates or whatever it is.
And I know this because I asked them about it when I was graduating from [00:27:35] school before I was - wasn't sure if I was going to go to library school and stuff and I was like well if I wanted to work for you guys would that be possible? And they were all yes, it goes through the HR; we don't get much say in it until the end. So, I know it for a fact from people who work there.
THERAPIST: But you could go through the HR process. What's to say you wouldn't be selected if there was an opening in those first two rounds? [00:28:02]
CLIENT: Well I mean past experience applying for administrative assistant type positions. Not having any - and because I don't - I have the ability to do the job I don't always have the required experience per se because I think it's experience in that type of position, the type of position that my supervisors were in as opposed to the type of position that I was in. I could totally do it I'm sure but I don't have the experience and therefore, on paper, and I'm disqualified therefore I might get ruled out right away. Even though it's a bachelor's degree required and I have two Masters. So I could apply for positions like that but there's no way that I would even get through the first - you have to get through that part and so far I haven't managed to do that. The one thing I applied to ever that I got the interview was the phone interview that I did really, really badly for. And that was for an archives position where I didn't actually know anyone in that department. But the recruiter didn't know anything. It's really a shame in archives school that they don't teach you about how to deal with recruiters.
THERAPIST: Feel like very useful, a useful course. Something preparing for the job search process.
CLIENT: They don't really give you that at all; they just assume. Especially because for so many people it's a second career so they've gotten jobs before so they assume everyone knows what to do. Not really helpful at all. And there were job fairs, and they would always be on Saturdays or something. Or maybe one time it was at the [inaudible at 00:30:17] Center and it was during Passover or something holiday part of it, so it was never something that I could even go to ever. So, yes, that was always a failure. [00:30:29]
THERAPIST: That's too bad. It might have been a good thing for you to be able to attend. Do you get notices about if there's more of those even though you're not in the program any more?
CLIENT: Not any more because they no longer have my student's e-mail up until the point where I lost my student's e-mail which was maybe about a month ago I did. I guess I could theoretically re-subscribe to the local list, but I think some of them were just sent out to all students and stuff and those, yes, I would not be...
THERAPIST: I wonder if - your department continues obviously to have those things for current students - if you could take part of it not on a Saturday.
CLIENT: If it was not on a Saturday but yes. I don't know why they're so fond of having things on Saturdays but they do and they always have it on Saturdays and I don't know why.
THERAPIST: More people aren't working.
CLIENT: Yes. It's just that I can never go to it because even if I technically could, like if I somehow stayed downtown or I walked all the way to the school it seems like I wouldn't be able to ride anything for one. It seems really, really out of the service sphere to about to be going to a professional networking thing on Sabbath. And now everything's in [inaudible at 00:32:04]. Maybe the thing to do is just sort of wait it out until the economy gets better. Maybe that's the only thing we can be doing until the institutions start having more money that they're hiring more people. It's very, very dependent on people being given money because archives don't make money they spend money. I cannot think of a single exception. Even if they do charge a small fee for researchers to come or a fee for photocopying stuff that doesn't actually cover their expenses. They're always part of an institution and they're always are funded by people who decide to give them money. [00:32:53]
So no matter what - when the economy sucks there might be some careers that are doing better than others, or things that are necessities that people have to have. Like even if the economy sucks people still need to go see doctors [to come.] (ph) Maybe the house repossessing industry is doing well or something like that or some food service stuff. I'm sure wages are getting cut but people still have to work there. But having an archives it requires having extra money. And even corporate, I think corporate archives, I guess that would sort of be me but the corporate archives don't make money either. They keep the records for the corporation and the other parts of the corporation that actually make money. The corporate archives spend money. [00:34:00]
THERAPIST: So it is an area that is probably particularly hard hit.
CLIENT: There's this whole thing that's propaganda I think that all these people say oh soon libraries are going to have so much trouble because all these librarians are going to get old and retire and then who's going to take their place? Except that nobody wants to retire from their nice library or archive job because they've been there forever and it's not really taxing so they can work there for quite a while and unless they're forced to retire they can work there, yes, until they can't work any more.
THERAPIST: You can't sit around and wait for people to retire.
CLIENT: Yes but I can't really go on a murdering spree either.
THERAPIST: I would say not.
CLIENT: So that isn't going to really work. I mean sometimes they want new archivist but it just...
THERAPIST: I don't think murder is the kind of proactive behavior that we're after here.
CLIENT: It's proactive. I mean assuming that I would even be able to do it without being caught. It's not like they did anything other than have a job that I want. So I'm not going to...
THERAPIST: Not to say a good reason for murder.
CLIENT: I'm not going to go and threaten people to retire. So, yes, it's not going to work. People do find jobs and I just don't know how they do it.
THERAPIST: Yes, they do.
CLIENT: I really don't feel [inaudible at 00:35:40] begin.
THERAPIST: You don't know how they do it or you're not willing to do the things they do?
CLIENT: No, I don't know how they do it. I mean I think some of them do the same thing I do except that they do it better and they write that cover letter and they get the interview and then they succeed at the interview and get the job.
THERAPIST: Have you looked at any of the career advice books or articles or journals that are out there to see how most people are getting jobs?
CLIENT: Not really but I'm guessing they're going to say networking and I'm going to be like okay that's great; that's really not going to help me unless I have the right...
THERAPIST: Why is it not going to help you? [00:36:20]
CLIENT: Because they're telling me what I already know. That apparently networking works except I don't have the people to network with to get a job in my field. Therefore...
THERAPIST: But nobody has these people just hanging out.
CLIENT: It's - the people who are already employed or who work do.
THERAPIST: It's people who reach out to other people and make those connections. The connections aren't already there and you are hesitant to take the people that you do know and leap from there to new people. And that's how this is being done for most people. They are putting the word out there on their social media sites that they're looking, they're talking to people and asking questions and asking to be put in touch with other people. It's not really networking if your best friend happens to have a job in your field. That's really lucky and that's great and that would be so fortuitous if that could happen for you.
But when people are talking about networking, that's not what they're talking about. They're talking about people who on their LinkedIn site, let it be known that they are looking for this type of position and reach out to everyone they know whether they're connected or not connected to what you think you want, and ask do you happen to know anybody who works in this field or has ever worked in this field, and following those leads. Oh yes, my college roommate went to school with somebody...and leaping on those very loose connections. You have to build the connections that are not already there. [00:38:26]
But I think that is - I've been, I know that you've been struggling with this for a while so I've also been looking into some of the career building types of supports out there and this is the feedback that I'm getting. That relying on career websites and postings is the minority of how jobs are actually getting filled because those sites are getting tons of responses. And you need something to get you through kind of the paper trail. And are some things filled that way? Yes, of course, or why would institutions bother to post on them. But that's not how the majority of people are actually finding the jobs that they're in. Sometimes you have to do something out of your comfort zone to get what you want.
CLIENT: The problem's also getting friends with people who are my age and I know that I make friends that are older than me and I feel like the people who are my age are all the ones who are unemployed or just starting. How likely is it that they're going to know anyone that - and all of my college friends, most of them ended up in New York, which is not really helpful if they...
THERAPIST: And they only know people in New York? [00:40:04]
CLIENT: Mostly, or Israel. I mean it just seems so [inaudible] but they're likely in management or engineering or something like that. It's completely totally not related at all. They would know someone here.
THERAPIST: You're making assumptions that make it possible for you to do what you're more comfortable with.
CLIENT: I don't even know if there's a way to mass send out e-mails on - doing that would tell people you're looking for a job or something.
THERAPIST: Well it doesn't have to be a mass communication.
CLIENT: Then you'd have to write individual e-mails.
THERAPIST: Yes, you'd have to do the work.
CLIENT: So I guess at least once you write one or two you just have to change the name of the person that you're writing to and stuff. But...
THERAPIST: Yes, it's the same message going out, slightly personalized but yes, you would have to do the work to make the time to write the letters. You would have to e-mail people and let them know what you're interested in, rather than presuming that they only know people who do exactly what they do.
CLIENT: I guess if they're there they must know people who do other things that they don't need [inaudible.]
THERAPIST: You're in the library and you know people that do things other than archives.
CLIENT: Yes.
THERAPIST: And you have to think beyond your framework. Professors, people that you worked with at an internship, your dentist. [00:42:07]
CLIENT: The problem is all the professors that - the close professors that were at Divinity School...
THERAPIST: But you know your professors from school.
CLIENT: Yes, sort of, some of them.
THERAPIST: That's enough for networking. That's enough.
CLIENT: In theory when all the other students do the exact same thing...
THERAPIST: You're not doing it.
CLIENT: Okay, well, wouldn't enough of them be doing the exact same thing that they would get bombarded with e-mails from students that are...
THERAPIST: I don't know. And if you make the assumption that they are not going to respond to you because they are busy responding to everybody else, that puts you right where you are and it gives you permission not to try.
CLIENT: I think that's what I need to write an e-mail and sell...
THERAPIST: You're not selling them anything.
CLIENT: No but I'm wasting their time and inbox space.
THERAPIST: They can choose to ignore it if they want. There's nothing wrong with asking for what you want or asking for help. Demanding help would be entitled but letting people know what you want and asking if there's anything they can do or any ways they know to help you get that gives them a choice of saying I'm sorry I can't help you or you know, my...
CLIENT: Or not responding.
THERAPIST: Or not responding, or saying you know, why don't you get in touch with so-and-so? She's really in the know. But what I want you to listen for is listen to the ways in which you make assumptions that allow you to stay kind of backed into a corner where there's no help, no hope and where you feel really helpless.
CLIENT: I also don't feel like I was the best student in some of my library classes that - I didn't really have that many archive classes to begin with. I guess half of my classes were archive classes. One of them was - what did I even have? I guess like preservation. But that's sort of like out in the field in a way. Like records management is not something I'm remotely qualified to do. I actually did like the archive - well, the entry to archives course was taught by a professor who's no longer there and she was a complete and total idiot and was the worst professor ever. And I guess... [00:44:51]
THERAPIST: But she knows about archives? Or enough to teach it at a university level?
CLIENT: Well I don't know because she doesn't have her job any more because they finally realized that she didn't know enough about archives to teach them. Maybe she knows people but...
THERAPIST: She might.
CLIENT: She - I don't even know if I have her e-mail any more because she was never send us one. Nothing is really - I feel like...
THERAPIST: Do you know her name?
CLIENT: I know all of my professor's names.
THERAPIST: So you could search for her on the Internet. These are things you can do. You don't have to and you can convince yourself that they're not worth doing. But those are the types of things that are really networking. Giving yourself a chance to do something differently than this way that is not working for you. It's up to you whether you decide to push yourself to do them or not.
CLIENT: [inaudible at 00:45:53] very well to spend all that time and send out all those e-mails and then get zero response too and then be exactly where I've started only feeling worse for having done it or having a bad response or something. I mean I don't think any of them are mean people who would be like you totally don't deserve to be an archivist, go away, but I don't know that any of them would be particularly helpful either because it wasn't like I was particularly close with any of them. Not in the same way I was close with my parent's friends when I was an undergrad or my father in [inaudible at 00:46:33] school, especially if it's the class was only once a week or so. I didn't see them that often; they were in big classes with lots of people for the most part. And most of them I only had for one class so...a couple that I had for more than one class but not - yes. So I don't know if any of them would be willing to help me because, yes.
THERAPIST: So you're explaining this to me and to you because...
CLIENT: [inaudible at 00:47:23]. They might not even remember me at this point and that would be kind of embarrassing. Some of them I did well with - I didn't do horribly in anyone's class. I think the lowest grade that I got...
THERAPIST: So what determines your - what I heard you say was telling you and yourself this so that I don't have to write them e-mails. What determines whether you have to?
CLIENT: Whether or not I think it's actually worthwhile and that would get me something versus is worth the risk of feeling like a fool for having written and never getting a response or [inaudible at 00:48:09] a response or something? All right, now I think there's... [00:48:14]
THERAPIST: How do you weigh that? What makes it worth the risk or not worth the risk?
CLIENT: If there's someone pointing a gun at my head it might be write those e-mails and it will be worth the risk because it would be dire consequences if I didn't.
THERAPIST: So not getting a job is not a dire consequence?
CLIENT: It isn't a dire consequence because I think it's going to happen no matter what any ways and if I write them I don't think it isn't a guarantee that I will get a job. So no it's not a dire consequence because it's already happening and it isn't guaranteed that's going to change. Not quite the same as having a gun to your head.
THERAPIST: So that seems to me that you shouldn't even bother to look because what it sounds like you just said is well I don't have a job now and nobody can guarantee me that doing any particular thing will get me a job so why bother doing anything?
CLIENT: Well theoretically the openings that they start openings, that exists. Whereas writing e-mails to someone that isn't an opening that exists, it's just a...
THERAPIST: But when you looked at the openings this week, you didn't send any cover letters anyway.
CLIENT: Yes.
THERAPIST: So why take the time?
CLIENT: Maybe I shouldn't. Maybe I should just stay unemployed because I'm staying unemployed anyways.
THERAPIST: Well that's what it sounds like you're saying. I'm just repeating back to you what you said.
CLIENT: You're using different words than I did.
THERAPIST: I don't mean to change their meaning. I'm just - what I'm trying to do is just reflect back what I'm hearing. [00:50:00]
CLIENT: It just all seems so pointless. There is no point to any of it. It doesn't seem like I'm going to get a job no matter what I do, even if I do write these embarrassing e-mails. Maybe I should just write them so that way I can say I did it and then, knowing that I failed at it, but - maybe it's easier than writing a cover letter. I wouldn't even know what to put in an e-mail other than I guess include my resume but it's not like they have things you can - they have sample cover letters; they don't really have sample networking letters. I should come up with the text and hard work myself, which is hard.
THERAPIST: It's something that I believe that you're capable of doing based on the fact that you've actually written a lot and you have a lot of friends, you know a lot of different people, and reaching out to people is the same whether you're reaching out to people to connect with someone in a music group or through your sci-fi stuff, or gaming, it's talking to people.
CLIENT: Yes but it's different because it's talking to people asking them for something as opposed to talking to people offering them something or...
THERAPIST: Well it's - rather it's both ways.
CLIENT: It's the difference between inviting yourself to a party versus having a party and inviting people. It's harder to invite yourself to something.
THERAPIST: It is. So it's in between that because you're not inviting yourself to a party; you're letting somebody know that you're really interested in something that they are also interested in. It's not totally one way. You're not just asking someone to give you money. You're letting somebody know what you're interested in and wondering if they have, know anything - because if they know somebody who is looking for something, you are helping them out by finding them the right person. It's symbiotic. You're not asking them to just give you money. You're not asking them create a position just for you at their particular place. You're saying, here's some things I'm really good at, here's what I'm interested in, I did a class with you, and blah, blah, blah and learned a lot. I wonder if you know anybody that's currently looking for someone like me. [00:52:59]
So it's not quite you're having a party and I want to crash it. It's hey this is what I want to do. Do you know anybody who might have a position, that's looking for somebody? And you create that idea that it's symbiotic, which it really is. If someone's looking for a position and they don't have to read through 475 applications to fill it because the right person just landed on their desk, waiting for them also...
CLIENT: Well maybe. I guess I'm just thinking that the other thing that they'll do is be like oh look at the job board.
THERAPIST: They might.
CLIENT: It would be the most unhelpful thing ever.
THERAPIST: Right, it wouldn't change your position at all. And that might be the response that you get from some people, you're right.
CLIENT: Especially because they have so many students and it's in this field...
THERAPIST: And some of them are reaching out and some of them aren't. You're not up against everybody. But...
CLIENT: But even if I'm up against 30 other people, that's still a lot of other people. In which case why would they, if I only had one class with them or some of them maybe two classes - you know I don't think there was anyone that I had more than two classes with.
THERAPIST: And you're right. It might result in nothing different than where you are now. It might not be worth it to reach out if you're comfortable enough where you are. It's what - for you it's measuring what's worse, staying exactly where you are or the risk of putting out this time and effort and having it not result in anything different, with the slight chance that there's a possibility that it could help in some way. But it's not a guarantee. [00:54:48]
CLIENT: I guess it's also I don't think I have anything that makes me different from any of the other students who are looking for jobs.
THERAPIST: I don't know if that's true. It might be true, you never know it might not. Sometimes it's just timing. If the stars are aligned they got an e-mail from a friend saying oh one person just left and we need someone pronto. And then you call and that person says great I can help my friend. Here's a person who...and if the stars aren't aligned...
CLIENT: It just seems like so little, very infrequently that people are leaving.
THERAPIST: You never know. You're right. Might be very infrequent. Might not happen.
CLIENT: Because people like their jobs and they don't really leave unless it's a student position in which case then it's I want a student because anyone who isn't a student will leave.
THERAPIST: Or they get pregnant and take a year off, or their spouse relocates or they decided to go back to school. You never know. Are these things that happen in every single position? No. Have they ever happened before? Yes.
CLIENT: I feel like some fields have a lot higher turnover than others.
THERAPIST: You're right.
CLIENT: Might have turnover because people - that's why I took a path to get a job in something I like. The problem is all these other people also like it.
THERAPIST: Yes, you're right. Some fields do have much higher turnovers than others.
CLIENT: I don't know what fields do have an high turnover rate but I probably wouldn't like them very much because I'm guessing a high turnover rate would be lack of job satisfaction.
THERAPIST: We do have to stop for today.
CLIENT: Okay.
THERAPIST: You have to ask yourself the question what's the risk of doing exactly what you're doing right now, and then decide what risks are worth taking and what ones aren't for you. I'll see you next week?
CLIENT: Yes. [00:56:58]
END TRANSCRIPT
