TRANSCRIPT OF AUDIO FILE:
______________________________________________________________________________
BEGIN TRANSCRIPT:
CLIENT: You got a clock.
THERAPIST: Got a clock. It's about time.
CLIENT: Ha ha.
THERAPIST: Sorry.
CLIENT: So yeah, interesting weekend. This morning has gone well.
THERAPIST: Good.
CLIENT: It looks like James is going to move here this weekend.
THERAPIST: Oh my God. (laughter)
CLIENT: Yeah. (laughter) 
THERAPIST: That was fast.
CLIENT: Yeah. Which is good but scary, and it's taking some adjusting. You know, I say it looks like this is going to happen but I kind of said "Before we decide this is going to happen, I want to talk with Chad." 
THERAPIST: Right. Let me stop you for one second because (inaudible at 00.54.2) let me know.
[01:00.5]
CLIENT: Okay. Hold on. So you said today—- 
THERAPIST: One tentative schedule would be Monday noon, Tuesday 7:45, Wednesday 8:30, Friday 5:15.
CLIENT: Okay. 
THERAPIST: But yeah, let me know about any of that.
CLIENT: Okay, thanks. Thank you.
THERAPIST: Sure.
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: Right. I didn't mean to derail you, I just wanted to—- (voices overlapping)
CLIENT: No, no, it's okay. That was a good time to derail if derailing is going to happen. Yeah. (pause) You know, James's advisor Kevin is pretty something.
[02:02.4]
I mean like, it's not normal, particularly in the sciences where it's like screw your family, you've got to get the work done. Kevin is like "No, you need to be with your wife. Go." But he also said he thinks James has a real future in biomechanics, and he thinks that like he both wants to and he feels a responsibility to help make that happen.
THERAPIST: Wow.
CLIENT: So that's awesome.
THERAPIST: That's great.
CLIENT: Yeah. Yeah. I mean—- 
THERAPIST: So what's the idea of how this would work?
CLIENT: So he would come here. I asked my roommates, I said "Would it be okay if James stayed with me while we look for an apartment? And figure out how long you're okay with him staying because we don't want a situation where it goes and goes and goes. Also, I really want you guys to be able to talk about this on your own without me and then come to a decision."
[03:05.9]
And so I went out of the room to get a glass of water, and they're like "Okay Tanya (ph), we decided. He can stay as long as he wants. As far as we're concerned, he can just stay here forever." (laughter)
THERAPIST: (laughter)
CLIENT: So that was just really wonderful because I cry a lot. (laughter) And both James's parents and my dad have offered to help financially, very generously.
THERAPIST: Fantastic.
CLIENT: Which is awesome. So he would come and be paid up through September, like take three weeks of paid leave, and look for a job here. He did a quick search and he said there's lots of science jobs in the area.
THERAPIST: This would be like a post-doc type of job or like a—- ?
CLIENT: A research-type job, but I'm not really sure. Like maybe also working for a start-up or doing—- I don't know. Look for a job, work for a year or so, and while he's working, turn a proposal that he and Kevin submitted earlier in the year that didn't go through—- I can't remember whether it was a mock proposal that he had to turn in as part of his degree, or whether they actually submitted it, but re-write that to be a proposal for basically doing computational biomechanics. And then that would involve him—- 
THERAPIST: Which is not so much what he does?
CLIENT: Not what he does, and not what Kevin does. But Kevin has had a student who has done that, so Kevin is willing to do that. And then after a year or so working, go back to being a student at the University of Ohio, but working from here. It would require—- 
THERAPIST: Sure, which you can do if you don't have to interrupt work.
CLIENT: Yeah. It would extend his degree because he would be learning a new field or a new sub-field. But that would only be good for him career-wise, and none of us really cares how long his degree is if he's here.
[05:08.0]
I mean, he cares in the sense of like it's wearing to be a student, but I'm like "I don't give a shit. I just want you to be here." 
THERAPIST: Yeah, on the priority list it's not that high.
CLIENT: Yeah. Yeah.
THERAPIST: His extending his degree.
CLIENT: Yeah. That's all awesome, and I'm not sure why I'm not more elated about it. James feels like there's this huge weight that suddenly lifted off him. He was talking to me last night and he was looking at apartments and looking at jobs, just to kind of see whether it was feasible to find an apartment for October and find a job quickly.
[05:59.3]
THERAPIST: The idea then is that you would move into the apartment, and you'd find somebody else to either get on the lease or to sublet for the year.
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: Okay.
CLIENT: And he said there's one apartment that like there's a young couple with a kid who is there now, and it's just really pretty and he's like "I just really want that. I just really want to be with you and have a life together and for that to happen." I'm like "Yes, me too. Yes, I want that." Yeah. I really do. I kind of feel like it's not going to happen. I feel like if I want it too much, then it won't happen which is completely magical thinking, but there it is.
THERAPIST: There it is.
CLIENT: So I'm afraid to really think about it or talk about it because I want it so much.
[06:59.7]
I've wanted it so much for so long, and the only way I can keep doing what I'm doing is to kind of not want it that much. 
THERAPIST: So if I follow, you're kind of terrified to want it as much as you do?
CLIENT: Yeah. Yeah. And I'm terrified because it's more upheaval and more logistics and more doing the same kind of shit that I've been for like months, trying to get to a stable place but the process of getting there is making things harder. You know, finding another person for the apartment who doesn't suck. (pause)
[08:04.7]
So basically every time that James and I have talked about it, I end up having a panic attack. (laughter) But I still want it to happen. I just—- I don't know.
THERAPIST: Are you worried at all about his moving here?
CLIENT: You know, I know that living together is going to be challenging in a different way than being in a long-distance relationship. That starting living together permanently for the first time is a big thing, that's going to be hard or has the potential to be hard. I have faith that we will do that well, and I have faith that we will adjust to that and we'll make it work. But I don't want to—- (pause)
[09:05.4]
THERAPIST: The bigger issue is something would happen and he wouldn't move here.
CLIENT: Yeah. Or that he would move here and then leave again.
THERAPIST: I see. And that you'd be devastated.
CLIENT: Yeah. And I've told him all of that.
THERAPIST: I guess I imagine you're really worried that you just wouldn't be able to handle that at all.
CLIENT: No, I don't think I would be. (pause) Yeah. You know, if James had something that he was really excited about in Cleveland or like a good support network, like if he were really moving towards his degree, I would say "No, don't come to be with me now. Finish your degree."
[10:07.4]
But he's not. He needs to be with me, maybe not as much as I need to be with him, but he needs to be with me too. He needs a change.
THERAPIST: You've thoroughly described it to me this way. It's not as though he's working on a project that he's thrilled about with a group he's thrilled about, or he has a real strong support network or a home.
CLIENT: He told me he feels like he's using me as a—- he's cheating. He's using me to get out of a situation that he doesn't like. (laughter) I was like "I will be that person." (laughter) That's just fine.
THERAPIST: (laughter) And so what if this very good thing happens for you?
[11:04.0]
CLIENT: That would be awesome.
THERAPIST: Good.
CLIENT: Yeah. I want it.
THERAPIST: Good.
CLIENT: And I do. Kind of stepping back a little mentally, I do think that if I can get to a place where there's a little more structure and a little more stability and a little more support, I think I'll get better. I think the pieces are in place. I just—- I don't have confidence in my ability to do what's necessary to make these things happen. And I know that I'm not the person who is doing most of them. I know that. But I—- 
THERAPIST: Things like apartments?
CLIENT: Yeah.
[12:00.6]
THERAPIST: Dealing with the new apartment, your current apartment.
CLIENT: Yeah. Like—- you know, it didn't occur—- like to say "You know, we need to start looking for an apartment right now if we want to move in as fast as—- like if we want to get an apartment." That's the way the market works here. Although I did actually forget that we weren't also paying James's rent, so we have way more money in terms of—- like we can afford more of an apartment than I thought we could, which is nice.
THERAPIST: Especially around here.
CLIENT: (laughter) Yeah. (pause) I'm just worried that I'm going to be the one who makes it not happen, which doesn't make any sense. But I'm worried about that. (pause)
[13:04.2]
THERAPIST: Right. In part, at least as I'm understanding it, because any absolute worst could not really happen scenario, you both live in your apartment and continue to pay his rent in Cleveland, and it would still be a lot better than things are now probably.
CLIENT: Yeah. Yeah, it would be. Yeah.
THERAPIST: But I understand. I'm not—- 
CLIENT: (laughter) No, this is helpful. (laughter) Yeah.
THERAPIST: You have this fear that somehow you're either going to mess things up or not come through in some way you're supposed to, and things are going to fall apart.
CLIENT: Mmmm-hmmm. (pause)
[14:00.8]
It's just more change that's overwhelming. It's just so much change, and you know this is the best change. But it's still change. I really like my roommates. I really like that apartment. I have accustomed myself to having to deal with it. (pause) You know, and I can do it again and I will do it again. It's just like—- it's just hard. (pause) 
[15:02.7]
But also, you know, it's going to be so nice not to be alone. Yeah.
THERAPIST: Yeah, that's true.
CLIENT: (long pause) James's advisor is also taking a sabbatical here this fall, which is handy.
THERAPIST: That sure is.
CLIENT: And like leaving this week.
THERAPIST: Where will he be? Kevin?
CLIENT: Kevin, yeah. I don't know actually. I think working with people at the university, but I don't know. I don't know how much work he's going to do. I'm sure he's going to be working. 
[16:02.5]
He's just like me, he works all the time. But we'll see. So [James could be a consultant]. 
THERAPIST: Right, [and he could probably hook you up with some]—- 
CLIENT: Yeah, that would be nice.
THERAPIST: I guess I'm thinking about this worry that you'll somehow mess something important up about James coming here. It has to do with apartments or something, and I was wondering if you've kind of been feeling like you mess everything up. If it comes from that.
CLIENT: Well, that's just standard. (laughter)
THERAPIST: Clearly I don't think that's actually true, but I know that you sometimes do.
CLIENT: Yeah, I always do. Yeah.
[17:01.7]
THERAPIST: Like I guess most recently the RA job, or just various things about being in the situation that you're in as a result of your messing up.
CLIENT: Yeah. (pause) Part of it is I want to take a break from having to work so hard. I don't want things to be so hard anymore. And for me, the logistics of things are really hard.
[18:03.0]
Just really hard. (pause) I don't want to have to deal with that. I do. I'm going to deal with it, but—- (pause) 
THERAPIST: You actually might not have to deal with it all that much. I mean, your roommates might be able to find somebody else pretty readily. I mean, they're both grad students, right, and who have been here—- 
CLIENT: Well, one of them just got here.
THERAPIST: One of them, okay.
CLIENT: I mean, I feel bad asking them to but I mean I'll just ask them to send out an e-mail on Facebook which is how they found me.
THERAPIST: Sure. That's probably how they'd want to find somebody anyway. I mean, they probably want somebody who they have some connection to rather than some random person in the community anyway.
[19:05.4]
CLIENT: Yeah. 
THERAPIST: And it doesn't sound like James is going to mind looking for an apartment.
CLIENT: No. I just don't—- I also want to be not overwhelming him or not giving him everything, you know. 
THERAPIST: That's not that much. 
CLIENT: It feels like so much to me. It felt like so much to me when I was looking for an apartment.
THERAPIST: Sure. Absolutely.
CLIENT: But you're saying it's not that much if you're not me.
THERAPIST: No.
CLIENT: (laughter)
THERAPIST: I mean, like he was excited to start looking on the computer. Sure it can be a hassle to [go and see if it's the weekend or something]. 
[20:05.7]
From what you've said about James and what I sort of know about apartment hunting, it's not a huge thing if one is not really depressed.
CLIENT: Okay. Yeah. And he kind of—- he's good in crises. He gears up for it. For short intense situations, he just really gets it done.
THERAPIST: This isn't a crisis.
[21:00.9]
CLIENT: I know. It just feels like one. (pause) The part of like—- I mean, yesterday was also an incredibly emotionally chaotic day, so it still feels like I don't know what's going on. 
THERAPIST: What happened yesterday?
CLIENT: Nothing much. I went to church twice, actually. (chuckles) I just wanted some stability. I ended up having lunch with a friend that I had planned like three weeks before and forgot about it, so we had lunch. Talked to my roommates. But I was really up and down.
[22:01.5]
You know, and I talked with James a lot about this. Talked to my sister. She was good. (pause) I don't know why I'm still so worried about it. I believe all of the things that he was saying, and all of the kind of reassuring things that other people have said, like "Yes, this is a good idea. It's sudden, but it's really good."
[23:02.8]
I just feel like I'm so overwhelmed. (pause) If I think about it, [I'm barely able]. (pause) 
THERAPIST: You know, I have some general thoughts. But tell me more what comes to mind (inaudible at 23:36.5). 
CLIENT: Well, part of me just thinks "God, why didn't this happen three months ago?" And I don't know whether it could have. I don't know whether—- I think in part, Kevin said "Let's do this" because he said he'd seen James, he was worried about James. 
[23:59.2]
He realized that James was not in a good place and if James hadn't come talk to him, he was going to talk to James soon. So that's part of it. But—- (pause) I don't know. It's not so much thought as just terror. (pause)
THERAPIST: Tell me about the terror.
CLIENT: (pause) You know, I just feel like I've been thrown up in the air again, and I don't know where I'm going to land. (crying) And I don't know if anybody is going to catch me. I'm not in a good position to catch myself, and I wish I were.
[25:04.2]
I've been working so hard to get better, and I'm still helpless. (pause) I don't trust James as implicitly as I used to, you know. I don't trust him to just be able to handle all of this and still be fine on the other side. Or I don't feel like it's right of me to let him to take care of things because I've seen how just letting him take care of me is like that. You know, that's bad for him in some ways and it's bad for us more.
[26:04.1]
And I don't know if I can do—- I mean, I'm pretty sure I'm going to let somebody down. (chuckles) (sniffling) (pause) Yeah. (pause) Part of it I think is just anytime you try to change it's definitely terrifying [and you want it to go away]. But it's okay, I'm still here. (chuckles)
[27:06.2]
THERAPIST: Especially when you're in really fragile shape.
CLIENT: Yeah. I can't take much.
THERAPIST: It sounds like you're worried about any bumps that might go along with this, even if it's unclear what those would be or look like.
CLIENT: Mmmm-hmmm. I mean, I feel like my experience here has been just that anything that can go wrong is going to go wrong. And things that I couldn't imagine would go wrong, are also going to go wrong.
[28:03.0]
THERAPIST: Yep. The unknown (inaudible at 28.05.1).
CLIENT: Yeah. (chuckles)
THERAPIST: Yeah. And then sometimes it's not even clear what went wrong when you're feeling really bad. A lot of times, I guess.
CLIENT: Yeah. Yeah. 
THERAPIST: It does sound so far, and I had been wondering also whether there was stuff about, you know, whether you were worrying about living with James and weighing on him emotionally too much.
[29:00.4]
Or that as much as you know at one level that this is what he wants both emotionally and career-wise, but somehow feeling like everybody is going out of their way for you in some fashion that you then feel guilty about. I'm not hearing anything from you about those things.
CLIENT: I mean, I feel kind of guilty about everybody going out of their way for me, except for James. I mean, for James—- a huge part of the problem of living apart has been like the ways that we comfort one another are not really over the phone. I think it's good for us to be together. He feels better when I'm around, and I just feel better when he's around. That's cool.
THERAPIST: That's very cool.
[30:04.8]
CLIENT: So I'm not worried about that. I'm a little anxious about—- it's hard for me to accept help from our parents. My dad told me that my grandmother used to say "Sometimes it's a lot harder to receive than to give, so you have to do it gracefully." (laughter) Just suck it up. (laughter)
THERAPIST: (laughter) That's good. Yeah, it sounds like it's more terror about more change and things unpredictably going catastrophically wrong.
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: Or you're feeling catastrophically wrong whatever you're doing.
[31:00.1]
CLIENT: Yeah. I'm just finding myself so fragile again after working so hard and really not—- I mean, after a couple of really rough weeks but not that rough. Not that much. 
THERAPIST: I see. (pause) You don't seem to be very durable. (long pause)
(inaudible at 32:49.5) 
CLIENT: What?
THERAPIST: I'm so predictable. (laughter)
CLIENT: (laughter) No, not really. (pause)
[33:06.3]
James kind of doesn't know what he's getting into when he moves here. He's like "Oh, dealing with insurance won't be hard." I'm like "Are you fucking kidding?" (laughter) 
THERAPIST: (laughter) Like health insurance?
CLIENT: Yeah. He's like "You know, when I get a job there will be a salary and you'll just have to switch over to mine." I'm thinking "Yes, but what if they don't offer a PPO? Then we have to get me a PCP which is hard here. Then we have to get visits approved which is hard here." He just doesn't know. I'm going to have to do that. I am.
THERAPIST: Yeah, or you'll just keep your insurance.
CLIENT: I can't.
THERAPIST: Oh, you mean if you have the option to be on a plan (voices overlapping).
CLIENT: If I have the option, then I can't keep the insurance.
[34:00.7]
THERAPIST: You're right. I misunderstood.
CLIENT: I would if I could, you know. It's good insurance. It's expensive monthly, but definitely worth it.
THERAPIST: Right.
CLIENT: But like I had to work for two months to get it. (laughter)
THERAPIST: No, that's a lot.
CLIENT: (pause) I did find out that applying to be a substitute teacher was a lot less trickier than I thought it was. I don't have to have an education degree. 
THERAPIST: Oh, cool.
CLIENT: I just have to pass some stupid online course thing. And you don't even have to take that until after you apply and have an interview and stuff. So I won't have to waste my time with it, so that's good.
[35:05.9]
I figured basically it's like temping teaching. I'm already doing the temping part, why not try to do it [where I feel I'll like]. (pause) I finally asked to meet with a priest, which I've been wanting to do for a while, but I haven't been able to ask. So I feel good about that. (inaudible at 35:47.5). 
THERAPIST: How come you wanted to meet with him?
[35:57.6]
CLIENT: (pause) Because—- I don't know. I don't feel very comfortable talking about God with you. (pause) 
THERAPIST: How come? (inaudible at 36:25.5) any way, I'm just curious as to why.
CLIENT: (laughter) (pause) Well, you gave me the impression, at least at some point, that you're an atheist, which I don't—- at least that you're not religious which is actually like—- I'm not the kind of Christian who thinks it's important what other people call themselves or believe.
THERAPIST: Sure.
[37:03.1]
CLIENT: I'm just not—- I don't care, and I don't think God cares. (pause) I feel like there's a whole set of kind of common understandings that are necessary for me to even kind of explain what I'm worried about spiritually, I guess. And I find it really difficult to talk about spirituality as it relates to myself with anybody. Like I really like talking about theology, but it's really different from talking about my own faith.
[38:03.5]
Like really different. And I really have a hard time talking about my own faith with people, with like authority figures. (laughter) 
THERAPIST: So I would be one?
CLIENT: Kind of, actually. (laughter)
THERAPIST: Okay.
CLIENT: (laughter) Sorry, like it or not. (laughter) You know, and I worry that people judge me for it actually, as being irrational and escapist. Which I don't judge myself for that, you know. I kind of feel like I've dealt with that in my own mind.
[39:07.3]
But—- I don't know. It's hard to be a secular Christian. (laughter) I was raised pretty secular. I sort of call myself—- like I do call myself a Christian, but it's mostly because I believe in God and I believe in church, and I was raised Christian. Not because like—- 
THERAPIST: What does secular mean then?
CLIENT: I mean, just—- see, this is the other problem. I get all of the terminology wrong. Like non-religious, in my mind. Just like materialistic, science is what there is.
THERAPIST: Okay.
CLIENT: Like there's no explanation that's not scientific.
[40:02.0]
THERAPIST: I see.
CLIENT: And that's still my basic world view. But also, I mean, I started believing in God because I had what I can only describe as mystical experiences and still have. So that's hard to talk about in a secular world. (laughter) To be like "I believe in God because I experience God." You know, what do you say? (laughter) (pause) And there's just so much there that it's hard to talk about.
[41:05.6]
And then there's so much of like "Should I even be going to a Christian church if I don't believe in the Gospels? Like if I kind of don't buy it?" And that's where it's handy being a chameleon (ph) because it's like "Yeah, of course you should." (laughter)
THERAPIST: (laughter) I see.
CLIENT: I'm like yes, that's why you go to church. To deal with it. To wrestle with it. To think about it. It's not about thinking the right thoughts and believing the right things every day. It's about showing up.
THERAPIST: I see.
CLIENT: Which I believe. You know, I keep showing up and my life keeps sucking, so I've got to deal with it somehow.
[42:01.4]
THERAPIST: I see. (pause) Showing up is supposed to help make your life better.
CLIENT: (sniffling) That's what they say. (pause) Yeah. (pause) Sometimes it does. Sometimes. (sniffling) I like liturgy and I like services and I like going to church. That is better. That helps at that time, in that moment. (pause)
[43:19.9]
THERAPIST: Are there—- (pause) I guess to be clear where I am, I'm—- 
CLIENT: It doesn't matter, also to be clear.
THERAPIST: But yeah, I do want it now. (laughter)
CLIENT: (laughter)
THERAPIST: I'm sort of a non-religious atheist who might think your beliefs or experiences are kind of irrational, and I also kind of belatedly judged them or you in light of them. 
[44:20.3]
CLIENT: Yeah. And it's not so much that I don't trust you not to judge me for them. I mean, I worry about it a little bit, but it's more that I don't necessarily feel like you're the person to talk to about this.
THERAPIST: I see. I mean, that sort of seems different.
CLIENT: I'm sorry?
THERAPIST: That, to my mind, seems different. In other words, to the extent that—- I don't know.
CLIENT: I guess I feel like there's a little bit of—- I don't ask you for spiritual counsel.
[45:26.1]
THERAPIST: Sure.
CLIENT: Because I feel like that's not really your job.
THERAPIST: Sure.
CLIENT: But I don't—- like I kind of self-censor to some extent talking about my religious life because I worry about being judged. Yeah, a little bit. But I do that with everybody. It's a really hard thing for me to talk about. A really hard thing. 
THERAPIST: We should stop. 
CLIENT: Okay.
THERAPIST: We'll talk more on Wednesday.
CLIENT: Okay.
END TRANSCRIPT
