<font size="4"><b>Chapter VII</b></font>

The thirty-eight miles to the institution seemed unusually
long. As I rode along, my mind seemed void of
all thoughts and emotions. Relief was the only feeling I
experienced when I approached a small sign sitting in the
center of a small tulip bed. The narrow road that surrounded
it led up to the bleak-looking building. The
words that the sign bore created a minor confusion in me
as we passed it and came to a halt. That marked the end
of my tiresome journey. The words "Vroom Bldg." were to
appear time after time in my dreams, signifying my utmost
desires for freedom. To this day, I do not know what
the word "Vroom" means, but I later learned that this was
the building for the "Criminal Insane."


With chains raiding around my wrists and ankles, I
was roughly ushered from the small station wagon and
led up to the door. A heavy cordon of guards surrounded
me. I saw, through the small round window of the door,
a drawn and suspicious face. The door opened slowly,
and we filed singly through. The clang of steel sounded
loudly through the quiet corridors as two large barred
gates closed behind us, interring us in the small main
center.


As the echoes of the clanging sounds died in the distant
halls, I breathed a sigh of relief. In the brief stillness

[p. <i>72</i>]

My moment of peace and tranquility was interrupted
by a sharp command: "All right, get 'em off." The uniformed
personage with the bulging middle was referring
to the clothes I wore. I proceeded slowly to respond to his
command, but, before completing the chore, I was surrounded
by several glaring, angry faces. The word of my
arrival had been circulated among the attendants, and
they came looking for trouble.


"So, you're Lane," one of them said, observing me
closely for the slightest hint of resentment.


"That's right," I said with marked caution, being careful
not to arouse their ire.


My aberrated mind did not hinder me from interpreing
their evil intent. The peace and tranquility with which
I had entered the building now vanished in the presence
of my hostile surroundings. The realization of my existing
position was not long in coming.


Disappointed at their failure to provoke me, the selfprovoked
angry men pushed me into a cell and moved
down the hall, leaving behind one guard who was to keep
me under observation. As I stood in the nude, staring
blankly across the wooded section which surrounded the
building, I slightly sensed missing the freedom that I had
once known. It was soon to pass. Curiosity now engulfed
my senses. Strange and hardly audible sounds broke the
tomb-like silence. They reverberated up and down the
cold, cemented corridors.


From a cell nearby, there came a loud, emotion-packed
scream, followed by the foulest obscenities. I then
heard, in the distance, the sound of several scuffling feet

[p. <i>73</i>]

"Open up that damn cell," came an angry command,
and then the swift movement of feet again.


"Shut up, you crazy bastard," came the next angry
command. The last word was dulled by the sounds of a
thudding impact and painful groans. I knew that the patient
in the nearby cell was being stomped and beaten.
Fully conscious now of the prison-hospital methods and
my position, I sat nervously on the side of my high bed,
fearful of what might be in store for me.


I spent a restless night in my strange surroundings,
listening to the weird and pitiful sounds that pierced the
darkness around me. The approaching day was to start
me on a fearful, regimented routine which lasted for
many years.


The dawn of the day brought with it the routine of the
newly committed: blood test, spinal and testing of reflexes.
With a robe wrapped tightly about me, I was taken
to see the analyst.


I was highly suspicious of the little man who sat before
me. Because of my mind's condition, I could not recognize
his quick wit and analytical abilities. His professional
calm instilled a respectful fear in me, and the sound of
his heavily accented voice aroused my hate and distrust.
Dr. R. Larson, Head Psychiatrist of the Criminal Building
and for many years the only doctorwas faithfully to
devote, thereafter, much of his time and skill to the job
of analysis and cure for the more than three-hundred
patients who occupied the building. His sandy hair, slight
build, and snappy walk were inseparable from his winning
personality. He was well thought of and held in high
esteem.


"Do you hear voices?' the doctor impassively asked.

[p. <i>74</i>]

"He thinks I'm crazy," I smugly thought. "He'll never
catch me on that one."


"Naw, I don't hear no voices,' I answered with a smirk
of assurance.


The pity of the deranged. Little did I know of the
questions' purposes. Various questions for various people;
all relatively simple and some with a pattern. The tools
of the analyst. His mind was keenly trained to detect
voice overtones and various other "symptomatic reactions."
The questioning continued:


"And your name is ... ?" the doctor casually proceeded,
looking slowly through the papers in the folder
that lay upon his desk.


"Lane," I hastily shouted, thinking to myself, "if there
was anything wrong with me, I wouldn't know my name."


With a feeling of complacency, I relaxed now from my
tensed upright position and sat comfortably back in my
chair. The next question caught me completely off-guard.
I responded to it in the only fashion the defected reasoning
powers of my intelligence would allow.


"Do you think anybody is against you?" Dr. Larson
calmly asked.


The question's effect was igniting. Within my memory
stirred thoughts of my disturbed past. My feelings of persecution
and hate were inflating one big emotional balloon.
Its capacity was limited.


"Yes!" I cried. And with a dramatic wave of my arm,
I added: "The whole Caucasian civilization!"


The doctor did not seem puzzled by my hostile display.
He finished in shorthand, the notes that he was taking,
and laid his pen down with a deliberate calm. He
then looked me straight in the eyes and, with a soft,

[p. <i>75</i>]

I did not know what to say. I felt ashamed, but I refused
to accept it. My mind probed feverishly for an answer
to his stumping question. Finally, I said with a pretense
of objective dislike and a stutter: "Nnnno, not
personally you haven't, but you are all the same."


The doctor smiled, thanked me for coming, and bade
me goodbye as I passed from his office, escorted by two
leering southern attendants. Without a doubt, the doctor
knew then that beneath the shadowed existence of my
conscious, my subconscious harbored no definite or permanent
hostilities.


At the expiration of my quarantine period, I was taken
from my carefully watched cell and issued clothing. My
introduction to this "strange world within" was soon to
come. As I approached the large iron gate which led into
the dayroom, the smoke from its unventilated interior, and
the musty odor of the many, poorly kept patients met my
nostrils. There was no marked physical distinction among
the many blue-shirted, khaki-clad figures who moved
nervously about. As the large iron gate swung slowly
open, I braced myself and moved cautiously in. I came to
a halt, as the large gate clanged shut behind me; I was
trying to get my bearings.


My blood pressure increased at the sight of a strange-acting
figure moving swiftly toward me. At the distance of
about a foot of me, he came to an abrupt halt. With a
blank and emotionless stare, he stretched out his arm and
without uttering a word placed a grime-laiden hand upon
my forehead. Seconds elapsed before he calmly took it
away. He then dropped straight down, seating himself on
the damp, dirty floor in front of me. Still in a seated position,

[p. <i>76</i>]

Several eyes were upon me, but I succeeded, with a
strenuous effort, to suppress my fear. Still shaking from
the startling event, I braced myself and took a seat in the
corner by the large gate. This I found to be a good vantage
point. I felt somewhat at ease now, with my back
protected. As I sat there on the long bench that lined
the wall, my senses were busily absorbing the sights.


The sensation of nausea came over me as I watched a
short corpulent character, searching painstakingly
through the filth of trash and expectoration that covered
the drain of the floor. He took from the rubble a spittle-dampened,
well-chewed ball of tobacco. He carefully split
in half the revolting mess, put one portion of it into his
mouth, and began to chew away. The other portion, he
carefully placed into his tobacco-stained shirt pocket.


Madness enveloped the better portion of my consciousness,
as I sat in deep criticism of the world around
me.


"I don't belong here," I thought to myself.


Over a six-year period, following my introduction to
my new world, I spent most of my time hating, criticizing,
and withdrawing from my unpleasant surroundings. The
tempo of my madness increased at the sight of filth, perversion,
and attendant-bigotry. The threat of certain treatment
for refusing to comply to an attendant's work command
infuriated me. Watching a poor helpless soul being
kicked and beaten because he refused to stand naked in
freezing temperature to await a bath increased my power
to hate.


My feelings of persecution increased with the pains of
each fever treatment, and the fear of each "shock." The
cold cruel methods of shock therapy created in the institution

[p. <i>77</i>]

The conversation I had with Julian Hayward, a few
minutes before he became a lobotomy victim, I will long
remember. He was a Negro of medium build with a reputation
for being a wise guy and quick with his fist. Being
very young, he had been sent to a nearby institution for
delinquents. As a result of his many violations of the institution's
codes, he was sent to the criminal building for
observation. The diagnostic findings of the criminal building's
staff made him eligible for a lobotomy. The efforts
of the institution to keep the operation cases a secret
failed; and the information concerning the victims-to-be
was being whispered around the building. Julian had
managed to learn that his name was among the list of five.


On the morning of the operation, a tomb-like quietness
replaced the usual buzzing sounds made by the many
patients who occupied the dayroom. The fear of the victims
could be felt. I had heard that Julian's name was on
the list, and I watched him sympathetically as he walked
up and down, nervously wringing his hands behind him.
When he could stand the suspense and tension no longer,
he came to me for conversation.


With a show of courage, he questioned me concerning
the operation's fundamentals: What was it for? How was
it done? Why were they doing this to him? For the first
time since I had known him, he had become dead serious.
He was no longer the radical, uninhibited character I had
known him to be. Fully aware of his suppressed fears, I

[p. <i>78</i>]

The time for the operations was drawing near. All eyes
were fixed upon the large gate of the dayroom. We were,
in quiet fear, watching for a man with a yellow piece of
paper to appear. This would be the treatment list. The
tumblers of the large gate sounded loudly, signifying that
the time had arrived. The attendant with the yellow piece
of paper, seemingly sadistically satisfied, began to call off
the listed names.


The sounding of the first name was met by a wild hysterical
scream and cries of: "You made a mistake! My
name isn't on there! I don't need a brain operation! I'm
all right!... I'm all right!" The inmate's fading sobs were
heard in the distance as he was being carried away under
restraint.


Julian remained calm at the sight of this nerve-racking
display. He finally turned to me, held out his hand for a
departing shake, and said with a dramatic air: "Lane, if I
don't live through this, tell all the fellows good-bye for
me." At the sound of his name, he braced himself, turned,
and walked swiftly to take his place beside those whose
names had already been called.


Sighs of relief broke the stillness as the lobotomy cases
were led away, each spared patient, including myself,
feeling selfishly satisfied that he was not among them.


"I wish I were the operating doctor," said the little
sadism-prone Jewish patient who had eased up quietly
beside me. "I would take that mallet and drive the scalpel
through their eyes and out of the back of their heads," he
said. A lust for torture obsessed his emotions, and he responded
with a gripping of his fist that turned his
knuckles white. A gleam of pleasure filled his extremely
bright eyes.

[p. <i>79</i>]

"I would then watch the blood ...," he menacingly
continued.


"Shut up, you crazy bastard!" I shoutedcutting him
off at the sickening mention of blood. "You make me sick!
Get away from me before I put a foot..."


Without waiting to hear the last of my angry threats,
he turned and walked slowly awaya leer of satisfaction
replacing his lustful expression.


At the gate of the musty dayroom, several patients had
gathered to see the lobotomy cases as they were being
rolled on stretchers to and from the treatment room. The
sound of rolling rubber wheels was heard from above,
mingled with the soft whispers of the attendants in
charge. We could only glimpse the procession as it passed
quietly by. Through the hushed corridors of the upstairs
hall, the careful tapping of ringing steel filled the air. It
stopped. Then came the rolling sound, mixed with the
snores of the patients after "shock." Another, another, and
another. It was all over. Fifteen minutes had elapsed, and
the five operations were complete.


We were all interested in the outcome of the horrible
event, and waited anxiously for the building's grapevine
news. All of us were conscious of the operation's high
fatality rate. Somehow we expected that one patient
would die. Who would it be? The news of the unlucky
oneor maybe I should say the lucky one, considering the
mounting tension and agony under which we livedwas
not long in coming. A half hour after the completion of
the operations, we received the frightening news. Julian
was dead. He had suffered a hemorrhage of the brain. He
had never regained consciousness.

