*TEXT-PV011103  25 July 1974
______________________________________________________________________________
PATIENT:  (Silence, Sigh) Well, I was uhm, thinking about the fact that since yesterday, I've been feeling, uhm, more than thinking that, you know, there was something that uhm, well, you know, sort of unfinished, or something, in what we were saying.
And uhm, and I was also just thinking about the fact that today — happened I was doing quite a bit of cleaning today and — I began to doubt my decision of uh, doing it next year.  Thinking, oh, I'm going to really hate it, you know, sort of the (Sniff) kind of attitude I've had about it in the past.  And uhm, well anyway, different from the attitude I had when I decided that I would try it.  Uhm, and then I thought about it, and I thought, well that's really crazy, because there's no reason that I can't still feel the same way.
And, and then I was thinking more about, well you know, what is it?  I feel as if I'm finished from yesterday, and I suppose it's w—, I don't know how much I'm finished, or just that I'm still trying to uhm, come to terms with it somehow.  But, you know, the end, the finality of it being the end.
And uhm, (Sigh), well, I think there was th, that feeling of knowing that uhm, I'm p, perfectly ready to stop, and capable of taking care of myself.  And uhm, living the way I want to live, if I really want to live, you know, the way I've been thinking.  And uhm, (Sigh) or, you know, finding out what I don't know yet.  And all, th, that feeling of knowing that I can do it, yet that I had yesterday, I think I, what I've been trying, wh—, I've been tempted to do, or maybe trying not to do, a, and still doing a little bit, is to take back that knowing.  And uhm, I don't know, I just, it just seemed that this feeling about cleaning, that I had today, must have (Sniff) uhm, partly been a, you know, a reaction to, a way to take back knowing something.  (Sniff, Pause)
I know, that just makes me think again, o, of uhm, you know, the feelings I have of well, you know, thinking of what you had said the p—, eh, eh, what you thought were a paradox in my feelings.  That I had anticipated your saying something else, and uhm, well, in any case I, you know, I, I guess I continue to see it as a mixed feeling about knowing I can stop, and wanting to be able to.  Wanting to reach that point, and then also, not wanting to stop.  And uhm, (Sigh) you know, kind of wanting to reach that point, without ever saying I can, well, part of it is to be on my own to reach it.
And uhm, well, I think of it another way right now, as sort of like wanting what would come in giving you up, and then, not wanting to give you up.  Uhm, (Sniff, Pause) ah, an, and I don't know what more to think about that, except I also then think about uhm, I don't know, it wasn't too clear to me yesterday, and it's not still very clear to me.  But (sigh) you know, some question about my attitude about help.  And I don't know, I guess right now, I'm thinking of it as i, it's almost as if I'm thinking, you're the only one that can help me, if I ever need help.  And so once I give you up, that's the end of any possible help, and I can't see uhm — unless I develop another very dependent relationship — you know, getting help.  And uhm, I don't know, I still think I have some kind of a strange idea about help.
ANALYST:  Yeah, why do I seem like the only one?
PATIENT:  (Pause) Well, I suppose sometimes I've thought that MSCZ could be somebody who could give me help, except uhm, you know, when I've thought of talking with him about some of the things that I've talked with you about, that I really, you know, if I talk with MSCZ about, I, it's almost barely mentioning them, and then nothing more.  Uhm, and, and I just know, well he can't, well actually, he has helped me a lot.  So I don't know why I think that he can't, except he gets h—, there's an emotional involvement on his part.  He's always reacting to me, in some way.  Uhm, and it doesn't seem that you are.
I mean, it seems like you're getting at whatever the truth, whatever truth can be, whatever the true aspects of the situation are.  And MSCZ might be annoyed that it's wor—, you know, whatever it is is worrying me, or that I'm talking about it, or you know, he'll get, there'll be some other aspect that uhm, would very much enter into it.  Uhm, or could.
Uhm, (sigh) but I don't know, I just uhm, I, I also just thought of something, because I was thinking, well, this idea of help yesterday, had been in connection with FYSI.  And today, I don't really, I don't know, it just seems like there's a broader aspect to it than, you know, whatever I was, am, looking for with FYSI.  But it did occur to me, that if there is something that I really do want to know about, in connection with FYSI's attitude about herself, uhm, I could ask her.  And that just never, you know, occurred to me before.  I, and I don't, I mean, I can think of ways of asking so that it would not be prying, or uhm, you know, just asking her attitude about certain things.
And uhm, (Sigh) it just never occurred to me before, that if I really want to know something, I could ask.  (Pause) And instead, I'm always trying to pick up little clues and guess, and uhm, it just seems, you know, like, so, I can think of other situations that, you know, I, my reaction would be the same.  I wouldn't ask directly.  I would try to put it together without ever letting on that I was, you know, I had a question in mind.  Uhm, And I do—, I don't know, it seems s, sometimes when I do that, it seems as if I don't want to let on I don't know.  And uh, so I'm trying to learn or know, without letting on that I never knew.
Uhm, (2-minute silence) I don't know, I think I'm thinking about this, uhm, because I was thinking about something that I wore in PTN that uhm, well I wore it with these shoes.  I guess it must have started with, I just was looking at my shoes and thinking about them, and I thought of something I wore in PTN that uh, (Sigh) was, you know, didn't fit me that well, because I'd put on weight since the last time I'd worn it.  And uhm, also, I guess, behind all this is — Dr BBB had asked me yesterday if I'd gained some weight, and I thought at this point, I'd gotten back enough so that, you know, it wouldn't, you know, be so noticeable.  And he checked the record, and I guess I was 5 pounds different.  But he noticed a difference, which made him ask.
And uhm, I think somehow, my weight was, I just somehow really hadn't, uh, faced how high I'd let my weight go, for awhile there.  And uhm, anyhow, then I was thinking about this thing I'd worn, and I was surprised that it was fitting me as tightly as it did, although I could still wear it.  But then I, (Sigh) the main part I was thinking about it, was that it h—, I hadn't worn it since I had it cleaned, and when they cleaned it, they pressed it in a way that uhm, I would never want them to press it again.  They were trying to make creases in the pants, and it's a one-piece thing that i—, made the top come out very funny, and I didn't want creases in the pants anyway.  Although with that particular outfit, it didn't matter if they were there.  It's just, they weren't necessary.
Uhm, and then I started thinking of something that I wore last night.  We went out to dinner, and uhm, it has to be dry cleaned.  And I spilled something on it, which I think I cleaned up all right.  But I guess I was thinking of this because it was also, it's an outfit I'd, I wouldn't want pants to be creased.
And uh, so then I wa—, I guess the main thing I was thinking is, well, when I  take it to be cleaned, I could ask them not to crease the pants.  And then I was thinking, well, that doesn't seem like such a big thing.  A, And, I don't know, you know, maybe at any point in my life, I would have, if it had occurred to me.  But it seems as if my tendency is much more to let something happen, and then complain afterwards.  Or be upset afterwards, or uhm, you know, it's a different kind of asking, I guess.  But uhm, still not to ask.  (Pause)
Except, then I th—, well then I think back to the feeling I had that you're the one, you know, sort of, that you're the only one who could help me.  A, and thinking of it in terms of, well, maybe I feel this way, partly because uhm, well, first I was thinking, because I don't really ask for help, but you give it.  But then I was thinking, but, I really do ask for it.  It's just that I don't ask for it directly.
Uhm, because over the years I think I've been very aware, and I don't know how much we've talked about it, but very aware of phrasing things in certain ways, that I assume you know I'm asking your help.  Uhm, but that I'm not direct about it.  I think I've been more direct lately.  But uhm, I don't know, all the trouble I had, or, o, over asking if you could change a time, or I don't know, remember now, there's was a whole series of things I had trouble asking.  And uhm, (Pause)
ANALYST:  So, so not only can you uh, well, take care of a car, and uh, know about money, and think, but you can also ask questions.
PATIENT:  (Silence) Well, uhm, in part, probably because I guess I would not think that asking questions, my feeling about asking questions would be at all the same to my feeling about taking care of a car or money, or thinking.
ANALYST:  But you, as you've said, have been just as inhibited.
PATIENT:  Yeah.  And (Sigh) I don't know, uhm, I know certain types of questions, I guess I would be afraid of, you know, th, the answer would be not what I wanted it to be, and therefore, uhm, I wouldn't want to ask it, you know, if it's a favor, or something.  But I have this feeling about asking all kinds of questions, so it can't be just that.  Uhm, (Pause, Sniff)
I don't know, (Sigh) I was also thinking of last night, uhm, in connection with this.  And nothing in particular, it's just, I guess I was just kind of wondering, because it also seems that, in part, asking questions, y, you know, feeling that I could do it.  Or just, I would freely do it, would be, really, a, aspect of thinking.  And uh, I don't know whether, you know, I mean, I'd, I'd, again, uhm, (Sigh) I wa—, I was not, and then I was trying not to be also, too self-conscious about what I was doing last night.  But I was just now thinking of a girl that we met for the first time, who uhm, we had seen, we were going to have dinner with MSEZ BBP.  And we haven't seen him for a long time, and then this girl was somebody he'd asked.
Uhm, and at one point, MSEZ was telling us about somebody that we knew, that he had dated, uhm, not in any kind of a serious way at all, but he'd taken her out, and sort of like, they were, you know, both then could have a companion for the evening.  Uhm, but anyway, he has heard that she is a lesbian, and has uhm, married another woman.  And this girl kept asking, but why would she go through the marriage ceremony.  And you know, it was just something she couldn't understand, she kept asking various questions about it.
And I guess I was just thinking of it, in that, she had a question, something she didn't understand, that involved thinking.  And she openly asked what her question was.  Which doesn't seem like any big thing.  Except I think I would be inclined, probably still, not to ask.  (Clears throat) Maybe I would ask MSCZ what he thought.  But I wonder if in a group, (Clears throat) you know, as is with people I didn't know very well, I would ask any questions.  (Silence)
Well, I don't know, I just have a feeling that uhm, I'm having difficulty with something.  And I don't even know what it is, whether it has to do with, you know, my whole attitude about asking questions, or if it has to do with what I just mentioned.  That I do have some questions that I'm not even admitting about this girl that married another woman.  And uh, I don't know.
And then, the other thing I'll think about, b, but I think I know what my feelings are there, but then again, I'm not sure.  When I first saw MSEZ uhm, we—, this was, MSCZ had spoken to him a couple of times on the phone.  And he said he sounded like he might have changed, and that he had a girl that he was dating a lot.  And uh, I was kind of wondering, because I didn't think that he would ever change.  And he had at one point uhm, well, he'd been very depressed at one point, and then he was just very depressing to be with.  Because uhm, well, his problems were so great.
And uhm, so anyway, last night, when I saw him, it was, you know, kind of with the expectation, maybe he's changed.  And there is a superficial change.  You know, it's as if he's throwing himself into a role again.  And, and achieving it with some success, the gay bachelor who's having a great time.  A certain interest, and right now, he's g—, he's — as he put it — he's gotten into cooking.
And maybe he really is getting some interest out of i—, enjoyment out of it, but after a while it became clear, he was still the same person with the same problems, and the same unhappiness.  And uhm, I don't know, in the end of the evening, I just felt kind of depressed, that, and this girl, he doesn't know this girl that he had asked last night, very well at all.  And she was making some efforts to, you know, I suppose get to know him, or show some interest in him, or whatever.  Uh, and he just, he didn't respond.  It was as if he couldn't really even hear.  And uhm, you know, he was incapable of responding, it was just very sad.  I felt kind of badly for her too, but MSCZ kept saying, well he thought she would just write it off as well, you know, an evening, or somebody that, the relationship wouldn't go any further.
But uhm, you know, knowing MSEZ, I, it wasn't a impolite rebuff, or anything.  But she might have taken it as such, and therefore, I was feeling sort of sorry for her.  But it w—, it was just very sad, and I don't know whether there's something in that that, you know, is kind of, I'm feeling sort of, well, anxious, I guess.
And I don't, and then I think  well, w, why would he make me anxious, you know, me, for just myself.  And the only thing I could think of, would be, if I'm afraid, after I stop coming here, that that could be me, you know, without your help.  But uhm, well, I certainly don't think that in any kind of a serious way, and I don't know that I really even feel that way at all.
ANALYST:  So, do any other questions that you still would like to be able to ask, occur to you?
PATIENT:  (Pause) Well, (Laughs) maybe this is what's on, lying under everything.  Uhm, because then I think, yeah, I'd like to ask you some personal questions.
ANALYST:  What?
PATIENT:  Uhm, well, I suppose, the one that I — I didn't think of it right away, but it must have been there — are you married?  Uhm, do you have any children?  What you do here.  Because all I know is what you do with me.  I don't know really what you do otherwise.  And uhm, (Pause)
ANALYST:  What would you like to think would be the answers?
PATIENT:  (Pause) Uhm, I don't know, because the thing that I, I just didn't realize, and maybe this is why, when I was speaking about this girl, I started getting anxious.  Because I have fluctuated between imagining that you married, and you know, that there's some woman that really gets your attention, and I don't.  And then, thinking you might be a homosexual.  Uhm, and I seem to want to think of it both ways.  I don't think I've ever thought, I mean i, it occurs to me.  But I don't think I've ever really thought about it, in a way.  As if I wanted to think about it that you could just be a bachelor who's not married but not a homosexual.  So it seems like I go one way or the other, and I don't know quite why I would do that.  Uhm —
ANALYST:  Well, what do you think?
PATIENT:  (Pause) Well, I suppose in one way, although this isn't where my real feeling is right now, but i, in either case, there would  probably be somebody that you cared about and, you know, was, I was competing with, but losing in the competition.  And uhm, but then I think well, if I want to think that you're married, then somehow, everything would be understandable for me, whereas if you're a homosexual, it would be something that, you know, it would be foreign to me, really.  And then, that makes me feel sort of fearful.  Uhm, except I've thought it a—, i—, enough, so that it must be one of the possibilities that I want to think.  But uhm, (Pause) but right now, I, I think, you know, I don't want that to be the answer, so I don't, I don't know.  (2-minute silence)
Well, I was just thinking of the fact that MSCZ has uhm, (Sigh) w, well, we've had a couple of discussions about this, since he read the book on the marriage of uhm, MLD JQX.  Where, and in that book he found out for the first time, ah, I don't know, it seems to me, I can't understand quite how he would have found out the first time.  Maybe because by now, it's so accepted.  And I forget I never knew.
But in any case, that MLD JQX was a homosexual, and it upset MSCZ very much.  And I couldn't understand why it would upset him as much as it did.  And uh, in, in our discussions about that, he started saying some things about uhm, his feeling about homosexuality, and what he thought it meant, you know, in terms of the person's accepting himself.  Uhm, and it wasn't that he would feel, in any individual case, that he was against it, as long as it was done tastefully.  But, you know, he, and I, I certainly agreed that neither of us liked, you know, the kind of like, precious young men that are s—, around so much now, and flaunting uhm — well, I don't even know if some are, actually, homosexuals.  But they're flaunting something.  And trying to get attention.
And, but at the time we were having these discussions, I kept thinking, well if that is a person's uh, I don't know what, incli— or inclination, or wish, or desire, or interest, or whatever, uhm, I just couldn't see that I would feel any other way.  But right now when I'm thinking about it, and I suppose, particularly, in terms of, you know, wondering, well, do I want to think you are or aren't, it bothers me.  And I was thinking, well, for that very reason, again, of uhm, it just seems like, I guess because I used to be worried about myself, and I can tell, as I accept myself more, I worry less about that.  And it just doesn't seem as if, I don't know whether it's that it doesn't seem like it would be a possibility any longer, or just, if it were, it wouldn't worry me, or whatever.
But uhm, well, I don't know, it just seems like right now, I'm feeling very strongly I don't want (Laughs) that to be the answer.  Uhm, but then, I don't know if I think, well then I want you to be married and have children.  Uhm, you know, it's kind of making you like me, and MSCZ and what I understand.
Uhm, (Silence) well, and I suppose, another question, a—, because I, I think of it more in terms of well, it seemed like that fantasy came back again recently, of you know, our meeting after, you know, some point after this over, in a professional capacity.  You know, that I would begin in the field in some way.  Uhm, because it is something that for years — I'd, I'd, you know, question whether I ever will be — but it's something for years I've toyed with.  And uhm, and, and, and, when, whenever I have that fantasy, I like it very much.  To think then we'd uhm, meet, and you'd be sort of like my mentor, or something.  But uhm, you know, we'd be sharing an interest.
And then I think, well, in terms of what I've been just thinking about it, it's almost as if, maybe what it really comes down to, is I have a question of well, first I was thinking of it as, do you think we'll ever meet again.  But then it's probably more, just what do you feel about the end.
ANALYST:  What would you like me to feel?
PATIENT:  Uhm, (Sigh) I don't know, because you know, in this case, I think I try to keep thinking, but, you know, you can't be too involved, because you couldn't be, and do this kind of work.  And so then, I don't let myself fully think it.  But I, I'm sure I must want you to miss me, and feel sad.
And uhm, but then I think, you know, I get into the (Sigh) kind of idea again, of you know, if it were like a death scene, and you were about to d, die.  Because in my mind, that's what's happening.  And uh, how would you, you know, i—, that you must want to have some final influence, you know, like say some last, wise thing.  Or uhm, th, that you would want to, knowing that you couldn't see me again, know that  I  was going to be okay, or something like that.  (Pause)  I, I suppose it really just is that you would be sad, and that you care.  (Pause)
In fact I, you know, now I realize this was on my mind right from the beginning.  When I was waiting outside, I was thinking of something that FEN had said yesterday, when she was saying that tomorrow would be her last day.  And at some point, she said, well you'll have to call, or I can't remember exactly what it was.  But anyway, keep in touch, was kind of her, what she was saying.  And uhm, I assumed she meant it the way I often feel, when I'm saying good-by to somebody.  And I don't like the finality of it, so there's some, well, you know, a true wish.  But on the other hand, a knowledge that it may not occur.  But it might, and if it did, fine, but that, you know, it might not, too.  Uhm, and today when I was waiting, I was thinking of that.  And then I was thinking, I was j—, I, I guess then I started wondering, well, will you be curious to know what's happening to me afterwards.  Or —  (2-minute silence)
Well, th, then I was thinking of, ah, sort of, 2 different things.  One was, that if I  ever think about  how MSCZ felt, and how Dr XBF felt.  Or, you know, the way I want you to feel, and would Dr XBF feel that way about MSCZ.  And I don't think so, in either case.  Uhm, and I don't know quite why, you know, other than what I know.  Except, somehow it has to do with uhm, the fact they were both men.  I don't, know quite why it would.  But, you know, maybe just, that I still have this idea of, men don't need anybody but themselves.
Uhm, (Pause) and then I was thinking of FTPZ EJ, who, I guess has come up before in this way.  Uhm, because I've, I was thinking of what she said about how it happened that she stopped.  I think she said she was going to analysis.  And uhm, you know, it's kind of combined with, that I had a feeling for a while that if she was kind of in uhm, well not awfully happy, which may or may not have been true.  And of course, she moved to quite a different situation, and that can be hard to adjust to, and she's happy now.
But uhm, you know, it was sort of like, in one way, did it really help her?  And then uhm, what she had said, I think I've already said this, was uhm, something to the effect that the person that she saw, that her analyst and she were sitting around, sort of patting each other on the back, and so fo—, you know, I guess I'd asked her how did she know.  Or somehow, that kind of a question had come up.  And uh, she said they were both sitting around patting each other on the back.  So then they decided it was time to stop.  But it's certainly not the way I've been feeling, or what's been going on here.
Uhm, I guess, you know, I was thinking, well, in one way I, I'm thinking, well, it has to be that way, or else I'm not ready, or I want it to be.  Or uhm, well I know, und—, behind all that too is, I know she saw her analyst afterwards.  And I don't know in what capacity, since she was kind of in that kind of a field.
Uhm, (Silence) I don't know, it just seems like I'm still having trouble with, you know, accepting the finality of the end. (Stomach growls)
ANALYST:  You'd like me, perhaps, to say to you what FEN did.
PATIENT:  Well, I tried to imagine that, and it (Laughs) didn't work.  I don't think so.  Uhm, other than, you know, I would like to think you were interested.  But uhm, (Pause)
ANALYST:  Well, we've run out of time.
