<font size="4"><b>Four: Lost Pilgrim</b></font>
[p. <i>[119]</i>]

I ARRIVED at the hospital late that
night and was put to bed, unaware of my surroundings. In
some small hour of the morning I was awakened by an attendant,
who told me that I had been screaming and tossing
about violently. He left the room and returned shortly thereafter
with a mattress, which he placed on the floor with the
advice that I sleep on it to avoid injuring myself by falling
out of bed.


It was daylight when I was again awakened. After washing,
I was herded with fifteen or twenty other patients into a
dining room; there were bars outside the windows. Breakfast
was served with mechanical cheerlessness and then we patients
were led to a small day room and locked behind a metal grill.
As I looked about me, I realized that I was now imprisoned
in a small area with only psychotics, psychopaths, and mental
incompetents for company. All around me were the types one
expects to find in any mental hospital. One man sat in a corner
lost in his own world; another giggled to himself as he toyed
with fragments of paper; a third gesticulated wildly as he

[p. <i>120</i>]

Although I experienced no severe symptoms of withdrawal,
I did not feel up to sitting on a hard bench all day, and some
time in the afternoon I asked permission to return to my room
in order to lie down. I was curtly informed that patients were
not allowed to leave the day room except for meals. I brooded
for a long time upon this incident, and upon the callousness
and general lack of insight which underlay the lumping together
of all kinds of mentally ill patients, regardless of need or
prognosis.


After two days of such "treatment," I decided that I had had
enough and signed a release slip effective the following day.
My sister was immediately notified and I received word that
both she and Arthur would drive down to meet me. A few
moments after their arrival I was free again and on my way
to Newark. The grass seemed greener, the sky bluer and the
air itself more pure than it had ever been before.


Until I decided what I would do, I agreed to remain in
Lilian's house. Both she and Arthur made me completely welcome,
and the alternative of going back to Miami, scene of my
recent troubles, was hardly attractive. I wanted furthermore,
to be a burden upon my mother no longer; she had suffered
enough. And there was absolutely nothing to be retrieved from
my phantom medical practice.


One of the most delightful aspects of this interlude was the
opportunity it gave me to acquaint myself with my nephew,
Norman, who was now one year old. A beautiful child, he was

[p. <i>121</i>]

My fondness for Norman was, in the beginning, sometimes
clouded by the memories he evoked of my father and my
father's death, and by a strange feeling of loneliness and longing
to see my father again. At other times his presence would
bring to mind the horrible chain of events in which I had been
involved at the time of his birth: withdrawal symptoms, the
masseuse, the hypnotist, Dr. Blair and electro-convulsive
therapy, and the semiworld of partial amnesia. As the days
added into weeks, however, these associations were obscured
by the stimulus of the boy himself and by the realization that
he was a link not only to the past but, more importantly, to
the future. At times I was blessed with a momentary insight
into the profound and inimitable love which parents feel for
their children and then, as I stroked his tiny hands, I yearned to
father a child.


During this same period, I learned to appreciate the warm
human qualities of Lilian and Arthur more fully than I ever
had before.


In addition to her innate kindness and deep love for me, my
sister possessed rather remarkable qualities. She had the ability
to organize, the strength to lead and the capacity to withstand
great stressvirtues which frequently made me believe that
she should have been the male child and I the female. As for
Arthur, no blood brother could have been more benevolent or

[p. <i>122</i>]

Shortly after my arrival in Newark, I began to receive a
series of daily phone calls from Janice. At first I kept up the
pretense of being in love with her. But gradually our conversations
grew more impersonal, the intervals between our calls
lengthened, and before long our relationship died its inevitable
death.


Now the idea of going to Israel began increasingly to
dominate my thoughts. As a Jew (if only, from the religious
standpoint, a nominal one), I had been emotionally involved
with the state of Israel since its struggle for independence.
Now it began to occur to me that the services of a physician
would certainly be needed in a country recently ravaged by
war, a country whose population was continually being
swelled by immigration from all parts of the world; and I felt
a need to be needed. There was something else, tooperhaps
more important: I believed that exposure to the biblical and
religious environment of Israel might be profoundly salutary.
My search for happiness in Florida had ended in disgrace and
failure. In Israel I might be infused by new spiritual values
which might then drive out and supplant the decadent ones by
which I had attempted to live my life. Ultimately, I might
find the strength, the faith and the peace of mind to resist drug
recidivism.


I was aware that going to Israel might only be another way
of rationalizing and running, but I honestly did not think so.

[p. <i>123</i>]

A day or two afterward I was surprised and delighted to
read in the local newspaper that Barbara was competing in a
professional golf tournament at the Shackamaxon Country
Club, located only a short distance from Newark. The next
few days flew by pleasantly, as I followed Barbara around the
course during the day and stayed with her during the evenings,
making certain that I left early enough to provide her with
adequate rest before the next day's competition. It felt good
to be interested in something and someone again, and it felt
particularly good to be with Barbara.


When the tournament ended, I decided to accompany her
to Grossinger's Hotel in the Catskill Mountains, where she was
to play in a one-day tournament. In the short time we had already
been together, I had come to appreciate, and reciprocate,
her honest feeling for me, and I did not want to leave
her. I do not know what might have happened had I felt about
her before as I did now. But now my sole thoughtmy sole
hopewas to get to Israel.


We drove to Newark, she in her car, I in mine. I introduced
her to Lilian and Arthur. Leaving her car behind, we set out in
mine for Grossinger's. It was the first time we had been alone
together, unfettered by her marital, or my familial, ties, and
we enjoyed our new freedom to the hilt. Relaxed and happy,

[p. <i>124</i>]

The tournament over, we returned to New Jersey via the
Berkshires in order to spend a day at the Tanglewood Music
Festival in Lenox, Massachusetts. Farther along, we stopped at
Candlewood Lake in Connecticut and Lake Mahopac in New
York. We reached Newark some five days later. Before she
left, alone, Barbara asked me to try to arrange my affairs so
that I would be able to visit Chicago during the following
weeks for the Tam O'Shanter tournament in which she was to
compete.


Eight days later, after checking into the Orrington Hotel in
Evanston, I drove out to the club to surprise Barbara. In the
week that followed I met many of the golf notables over a
tall cool drink on the clubhouse patio between matches. The
excitement of major tournament play soon infected me. While
following Barbara around the course during her matches, I
found myself wincing with each unsatisfactory drive, smiling
with each successful approach shot, holding my breath with
each putt, and ending the day almost as exhausted as she.
Following a late dinner, we usually sat around the hotel room
discussing the day's activities over a scotch and soda. Now and
then we talked about our relationship, and then Barbara's frank
expression of utter confidence in our eventual marriage never
failed to upset me. I usually became dejected and restless and,
for some unaccountable reason, the image of Angelique would
enter my thoughts.


When the Tam O'Shanter ended, Barbara and I spent three
day together at Peabody, Massachusetts, where she competed
in another tournament. By this time many of the women golf
pro's knew me and greeted me by name. But pursuing

[p. <i>125</i>]

In Newark, I found no news from Jerusalem. My disappointment
led to restlessness and boredom with my surroundings.
I became hypercritical of everyone about me and too
irritable and impatient to engage in idle conversation. Aware
of these changes and fearful of what they might mean, I decided
to take a cruise to Nassau. I had inherited some money
from my father and now seemed as good a time as any to use it.
I loved the moods and power of the sea, and the sea had always
had a tranquilizing effect upon me.


When I returned from Nassau, relaxed and tanned, there
was still no word from Israel, and although impatient at having
to continue marking time, I felt no anxiety. To occupy myself,
I attempted to edit the poetry I had written in my Trudeau
days, but I found that my vocabulary still suffered from amnesia.
The right word, often an ordinary one, kept eluding me
in an excruciating chase, and at last I abandoned the project.


Still unable to decelerate an inner rhythm to the tempo
around me, I played with the idea of taking another cruise,
now to Panama.


My restlessness made both of my hosts nervous, and one
evening my brother-in-law, who knew my story, suggested
that I visit Mexico City and look up Angelique instead.


He argued that seeing her again would serve to dispel the
romantic illusions with which I had embellished her memory

[p. <i>126</i>]

I sailed to Panama on a cruise somewhat less excitingperhaps
inevitably sothan the one I had made to the Bahamas,
returned to Newark, and waited some more. By now everything
seemed to hinge on an affirmative reply from Jerusalem,
and the three of us, Lilian, Arthur and I, shared a single tormented
anxiety. In mid-September, 1953, the cable finally arrived.
I was ordered to report to the Hadassah Hospital in
Safed, Israel, at the earliest possible date.


The remainder of my stay in Newark was marked by the
frenzied activity which usually precedes a long and unaccustomed
journey: working out an itinerary, obtaining a passport
and visa, making purchases and visits, packing. I booked
passage to Naples, Italy, aboard the S. S. <i>Constitution</i>. From
Naples, I arranged that, following a short layover, I should be
carried to Haifa, Israel, aboard the S. S. <i>Grimani</i>.


Finally the evening of embarkation arrived and I looked
forward to the morrow with unbridled excitement.


The embarkation from New York was delayed two days
by a dockworkers' strike, but at last I was aboard, in a well-appointed
stateroom, lovingly surrounded by friends and relations.
Amid the hubbub, however, I realized suddenly that my
heavy luggage was not present; the stateroom contained only
the two handbags I had carried with me. After rushing out to

[p. <i>127</i>]

Fortunately, the <i>Andrea Doria</i> would also stop at Naples.
But neither the assurances that I would be able to pick up my
luggage there, nor the apologies which went with them, promised
to serve in lieu of clothes. Hurriedly assessing the contents
of my two suitcases, I found that I had one tuxedo, two
pairs of trousers, assorted shirts and underwear, but no ties,
socks or handkerchiefs. In addition, I had the clothes on my
back.


Because of the strike also, the haberdashery shop aboard ship
was poorly stocked and I was able to purchase only some
black silk socks, wide Italian ties and a few handkerchiefs. So
here I was, about to make a nine-day voyage aboard the S. S.
<i>Constitution</i> minus most of my clothes, and there wasn't a
thing I could do about it. However, I soon resigned myself to
my lot, even enjoying the humorous side of it.


Eventually, the farewells were said, the visitors went ashore,
the gangplank was raised, and the <i>Constitution</i> began slowly to
move away from the crowded, noisy pier. I watched the many
waving figures grow smaller and smaller until they all merged
into the silhouette of the receding skyline. Then, looking out
into the boundless sea, I was assailed by loneliness and uncertainty,
and acutely aware that I was leaving everything that
had been my life behind me. But these feelings passed in an
instant, and I was filled again with excitement, anticipation and
hope.


Because at this time of the year the greater part of sea travel
was directed westward, the <i>Constitution</i>, traveling eastward,

[p. <i>128</i>]

The vessel followed the so-called southern route, and as we
moved further into the Atlantic, we saw fewer and fewer
ships. When some ship did appear on the horizon, I pressed
against the rail to watch it, lost in speculations as to its point
of origin, passengers and destination.


One day I became aware of an unfortunate sidelight of
trans-Atlantic voyages. While the ship was berthed in port,
small land birds resembling sparrows had adopted the upper
deck and superstructure for their roosts. Now a few days
afterwards, many of the birds began to die of starvation because
their diet consisted entirely of worms and they were
unable to reach land in order to obtain food. They rejected all
the bread crumbs and pieces of meat and vegetables which we
set out for them.


On the fourth day at sea I met Marvin Gilbert. He was
handsome, suave, well-dressed, somewhat older than I, and he
exuded loneliness. The more we talked, the more we became
interested in each other, and before long we were spending
most of our time together.


Marvin had had a partnership in a law firm which represented
one of the major movie studios in Hollywood when he
was summoned by one of the several un-American activities
committees so prevalent in the early 'fifties and confronted
with a huge transcript of liberal remarks and opinions which

[p. <i>129</i>]

His dossier described such subversive beliefs as that freedom
and better living conditions ought to be available to all and
that American cold war policy might be in the wrong. Although
the committee investigating him was unable to prove
that Marvin was, or ever had been, a Communist, he found
himself caught up in the tidal wave of political hysteria which
was sweeping across the land and hurled from the height of
worldly success to the shoals of ruin below. As a direct result
of the investigation he was ostracized by his friends, separated
from his law firm and divorced by his wife, who received
custody of his daughter, whom he deeply loved. Now Marvin
was a lonely and bitter wanderer who traveled between a home
in California and an apartment in Monte Carlo, visiting many
other places in the world in an unending search for peace. He
had nothing but money and he spent it to appease an insatiable
restlessness.


I awoke on the fifth day to find that the ship was anchored
in the gateway to the Mediterranean Sea. From the starboard
side, the silhouette of North Africa was barely discernible
through a shroud of fog which hugged its coast. Gibraltar lay
just off our port bow; examining it through binoculars, I could
see the square-looking hillside homes, many of which were
constructed of an adobe-like material, the precipitous roads
which coursed sinuously up the mountainside, and the huge asphalt
system for trapping rainwater for conveyance to underground
reservoirs.


At Naples I disembarked, and enquiring at the customs
office, was told that my misrouted baggage had arrived and
would be transferred to the <i>Grimani</i>, due to sail in nine hours.

[p. <i>130</i>]

Passing through the pier gates into the city, Marvin and I
were immediately besieged by a mob of ragged boys, each of
whom seemed more intent than the next to sell us a gun, his
"seester" or both. Although they seemed to give many of the
other tourists a good deal of trouble, Marvin dispelled the
urchins with a single guttural command.


As we strolled aimlessly through the crowded, bustling
streets, I observed the scenes around us: aged crones scurrying
about selling loose cigarettes; well-dressed, beautiful women
passing by, apparently oblivious to the remarks and wolf
whistles of admiring males; groups of men in short suit jackets
arguing on the cornersalways about politics; shop windows
crammed with food and merchandise. We stopped at one of
the many combination grocery-luncheonettes. Entering by
pushing aside the rows of vertical chains in the doorway, we
admired the shelves well stocked with wines, olives, cheeses,
oils and fishes, and we partook of tiny pizzas and beer.


We paused in front of the San Carlo Opera House, perhaps
the most famous of operatic temples, to speculate on the number
of great singers who had performed here. We surveyed
the three-hundred-year-old Royal Palace adjacent to the opera
house, our minds filled with thoughts of ancient pomp and
splendor. We visited the Church of San Francesco di Paola,
built in imitation of the Pantheon in Rome, where the funeral
of Enrico Caruso had taken place before his burial in a nearby
cemetery. As I stood in the nave, musing, my thoughts drifted
for a single moment to a memory of my childhoodwatching
my father select and place a favorite Caruso record on the tall

[p. <i>131</i>]

We strolled through the vast arcade of the Galleria Umberto,
passing crowded restaurants, shops, cafes and theaters.
This was the universal rendezvous for business and pleasure
through all hours of the day and night. While we gazed about
us, I thought I could feel waves of the loneliness and longing
set up by the thousands of homesick American soldiers who
had tarried here during the war.


Fatigued by our tour, we hired one of the horse-driven
carriages with meters similar to taxi meters and rode down to
the waterfront area of the city, almost succumbing along the
way to the somniferous clop, clop of the horses' hooves upon
the pavement.


Rested once more, we explored the waterfront and its environs,
walking through narrow, tortuous alleys and staircase
streets which yielded to the contours of the terrain. Then we
Wandered along the Marina, passing through one open-air sea-food
restaurant after another, each distinguished from its
neighbors by color and dcor, yet each radiating the soft Neapolitan
music of guitars and mandolins. Between restaurants,
the pier was piled high with sailboats, rowboats, water skis
and fishing gear.


With the time dwindling rapidly, we hired a taxi to take
us up the winding road to Di Angelo's, a restaurant located
high up on a cliff overlooking Naples and its harbor. There
we let the owner select our dinner, which consisted of course
after course of seafood, each more delectable than the one
before it. Finally, after luxuriating in our surroundings with a
last glass of wine, we settled our bill and departed. Back at the
pier, Marvin promised to look me up if he visited Israel.

[p. <i>132</i>]

The ship on which I was to make the last leg of my voyage,
the S. S. <i>Grimani</i>, was quite comfortable and well staffed,
though only about half the size of the <i>Constitution</i>. I was
assigned to a table with a congenial Australian couple and
their seven-year-old daughter, and we all soon became good
friends. Don, Mary and little Nina were on their way to visit
Don's parents in Petah Tikvah, a town near Tel Aviv. We
loafed away the days talking about our countries, about Israel,
and playing cards. The ship's doctor taught me how to make
small dolls from coarse rope, and I worked sedulously to keep
Nina happy.


Heading eastward for Piraeus in Greece, the ship passed
through the Corinth Canal, a man-made waterway separating
Greece from Peloponnesus. It was a unique experience: we
approached what appeared to be solid land, and just when it
seemed as if the helmsman must surely have fallen asleep, we
spied a narrow channel bounded by sheer cliffs on either side.
As the <i>Grimani</i> passed through the four miles of strait, we
rushed from one side of the deck to the other to estimate the
clearance, which seemed to be about ten or fifteen feet at the
most. The canal opened onto hundreds of small, barren, volcanic
islands, through which the ship dextrously began to
thread its way; at one point the captain took us off course so
that we might see a small active volcano.


The ship reached Piraeus late at night with only a three
hour layover. I decided to remain with Don and Mary, who
could not take the sightseeing tour to Athens at this late hour
because of Nina. Instead we walked along the wharves and the
narrow, cobblestoned side streets, observing the bars and
streetwalkers who waited for sailors and tourists. When we
got back from our stroll, the ship's doctor asked me to examine

[p. <i>133</i>]

I awoke on the fifth morning in Haifa harbor. Staring across
the bay at Mount Carmel, I was struck by a feeling of awe
and disbelief. For some reason, the biblical stories I had been
told as a boy in Sunday school had always seemed mythical
to me, as if they had been written about people of another
world, but now I was about to set foot on the holy soil where
many of them had really taken place. Shivers ran up my spine.
I fell into a profound reverie, from which I was awakened
only by the call for all passengers to disembark. After bidding
goodbye to Don, Mary and Nina, I strode down the gangplank.


I was met at the dock by a Hadassah representative, who
informed me that I first had to report to the chief medical
officer of Hadassah in Jerusalem before assuming my duties in
Safed. After collecting my baggage, I got into a car to which
he conducted me. There was a driver behind the wheel. I
bade the Hadassah man goodbye, and then the car shot away
so rapidly that I was unable to form any impression of the
city at all.


The route was southward along the coast, past Hadera,
Nathanya, Hertseliya, and innumerable small settlements
callled <i>kfars</i>, to Tel Aviv. As the car approached Tel Aviv,
traffic grew heavier and I saw numerous people hiking and
hitchhiking along the road.


Tel Aviv proved to be a handsome modern city. We passed
through bustling streets, by well-dressed people and splendid
buildings reminiscent of Miami. On the outskirts, however,

[p. <i>134</i>]

Past Tel Aviv the driver turned eastward, and now the road
was bordered by eucalyptus trees on both sides. Every few
miles I saw burnt-out, rusted jeeps, trucks, tanks, ambulances
and half-tracks. The driver explained that the trees had been
planted to conceal the movement of traffic from spying eyes
atop the surrounding Jordanian mountains, and that the vehicles
had been demolished during the war for independence
and been left at the roadside as a memorial.


After passing Lydda airport, we traveled over some miles of
road which sliced through a desert-like area of sand dunes.
Then we entered Ramle, where the police station was still
pockmarked by bullet holes. The driver followed the road in
its sweep southeastward into the narrow corridor leading to
Jerusalem; from here on, it ascended the rugged Judean hills.
He circled the peaks by traveling around blind curves which
hung perilously from the mountain sides like shelves, separated
from a drop into nowhere by only a few feet of rock. On occasion,
a careening bus or truck came from the opposite direction,
forcing the car to the outer edge. Whenever I could summon
up the courage to divert my eyes from the road ahead, I
was thrilled by the majestic sweep of the mountain panorama,
which merged into the distant hills of Jordan.


We arrived in Jerusalem after dark, and although unable to
see very much, I was aware of being in a large and beautiful
city. Later that same evening, I dined with the chief medical
officer, who informed me that I could either remain in Jerusalem
for a few days or leave with my driver for Safed on the

[p. <i>135</i>]

I departed early in the morning. The driver took the same
route back until we reached Ramle. There we turned northward,
taking a short cut to Haifa which by passed Tel Aviv
completely. Along the way I saw large orange groves with
trees laden with unripe fruit. Passing through Haifa I was
stuck by the splendor of the residential district high up on
Mount Carmel, overlooking the harbor.


From Haifa, we rode northward along the coast to Acre.
There the driver turned inland and the car began the gradual
ascent from the sandy coastal plain up into the foothills of
Galilee, speeding by fortress-like police stations strategically
located on hilltops. We passed two Arab towns with their
large olive groves extending for miles. I gaped at Arabs in
traditional cloak and headdress leading their camels by the side
of the road. The driver stopped at a spring of water, and
there I ate my first <i>sabra</i>, the tough fruit of the cactus from
which the native-born Israelis take their name.


As we penetrated deeper into the hills of Galilee, the road
became more sinuous and precipitous and the vegetation more
sparse. Soon practically all I could see was rocks, boulders,
cliffs and barren mountains. Yet, occasionally, tiny Arab farms
would come into view, marked off by fences of rocks removed
by hand from the very ground they encircled.


The sunset began to jump from peak to peak, splashing the
mountainsides with mauve. Upon a distant hillside I discovered
a cluster of twinkling lights which the driver told me was
Safed. But it would be still an hour before we completed the
journeya nightmarish hour in which the car struggled up
one side of a mountain only to dash madly down the other,

[p. <i>136</i>]

The hospital, for tuberculosis patients, was situated on a
height at the extreme west end of the town overlooking beautiful
Lake Tiberias. There were two main buildings, one of
which housed the laboratory and X-ray facilities as well as
hospital rooms and wards; the other contained the administrative
offices, hospital rooms, a dining hall and sleeping quarters
for personnel. A large carp pool stood in the garden.


The professional staff consisted of the medical director, Dr.
Zalti, the head nurse, an Iraqui physician, and myself. We were
assisted by a number of trained aides and practical nurses. The
patient population represented a veritable cross-section of
world Jewry. In one ward were persons who had come from
the ghetto of Warsaw, the concentration camps of Germany,
the <i>mellab</i> of Casablanca and the desert camps of Yemen. Dr.
Zalti, who conducted me on my first rounds, demonstrated an
amazing linguistic versatility, switching from one unfamiliar
language to another as we passed from bed to bed.


A few days after my arrival, I was assigned permanent quarters
in a beautiful house with floors of Arabic mosaic tile which
intrigued me each time I entered. Once settled, I began to take
lessons in Hebrew from an aged private tutor. However, I
soon found that it was difficult for me to practice the language:
the people around me desired so much to learn English that
they made me speak it constantly. Before long I had initiated
night classes in English for the hospital patients, using an old
primer which the patients themselves obtained from Haifa.


In my leisure time I explored the town and some of the areas

[p. <i>137</i>]

I prowled through the maze of winding alleys in the section
which had been the local ghetto prior to the establishment of
Israel as a nation. I inspected the large synagogue, in which
once had flourished the mystic theosophy of the Cabalists. I
visited the artists' colony which had only recently sprung up,
and the new Glickenstein art museum with its Kastels and
Frankels. I found a little bookstore which sold <i>Time</i> and <i>Life</i>
and, occasionally, an old issue of the Paris edition of the
<i>Herald Tribune</i>. I went to the local movie only once a week,
ashamed to attend more often in the austere environment. I sat
for hours in the memorial park situated on a hilltop, from
which vantage point I could absorb the rugged and barren
beauty around me.


I climbed hills outside of the town to small hotels which
catered to people from Tel Aviv and Haifa seeking relief from
the unbearable heat waves called <i>kbamsins</i>, which blew in
from the east and seared the entire country during spring and

[p. <i>138</i>]

I was happy, my work went well, and I was infected by the
spirit of optimism which surged everywhere around me. Of
course, the people of Israel had their problems. War might
come at any time and the economy was neither sound nor self-sufficient.
Most of the population was far from well off. In the
country, the farmers did not have enough clothes; in the city,
the workers did not have enough food; and in the small towns,
everyone wanted for both food and clothes. Yet having
planted gardens in the desert and built cities on sand the men
and women among whom I lived could not but believe in the
ultimate success of their venture in nationhood. Seeing a truckload
of singing workers pass by, or hearing through the window
the song of a solitary worker as he trudged home at night,
one could comprehend the faith which denied all impossibilities.


But it was a faith of a different kind than that which I had
come to Israel to discover, a faith in nationhood rather than a
faith in a God in which one could lose and find oneself.


Religiously, Israel was divided by a profound schism. On the
one hand was an extremist orthodox group wishing to establish
a theocracy, and on the other, a no less rigid secular group,
composed mainly of young people who desired to forge an

[p. <i>139</i>]

Late in October, 1953, two men arrived from Hadassah
headquarters in Jerusalem to spend a week at the hospital.
They were given quarters in my house and I was assigned to
guide them during their visit. One, Dr. Pesharsky, was the
head of the Hillel organization at a large American university.
He had been sent to Israel to organize a Hillel chapter at the
Hebrew University in Jerusalem. The other, Dr. Damon, had
recently resigned from his post as chief medical officer of
Hadassah because it had interfered with his religious and
philosophical pursuits. Both of these men were true intellectuals
as well as orthodox believers, and I enjoyed many fascinating
hours of discussion with them.


We frequently climbed to crags atop some hill, where one of
them would read passages from the <i>Talmud</i> while the other
interpreted for me. In the flow of their great knowledge, I
often felt hopelessly beyond my depths.


Dr. Damon seemed to me to radiate more inner peace than
any man I had ever known. One day, while the two of us
strolled alone together, I suddenly blurted out my desire to
"find" religion and asked him what I might do to facilitate my
search. Dr. Damon looked away distractedly and for a moment
he did not answer. Then he said that no one could help me,
that I must find what I was looking for by myself.

[p. <i>140</i>]

It was a brushoff and it hurt more deeply than this truly
good man could have expected. I could not believe in the
whole truth of Dr. Damon's advice: if the religious search was
exclusively an individual one, what of the teachings he so assidously
studied? Weren't they based on other men's experiences?
From this time, my feeling for Israel subtly began to
change. I was not unhappy, I was living among the people
not as an American tourist-conqueror but as one of them, and
yet, somethingmy sense of dedicationhad diminished in
me. Safed, which had at first represented a glorious new beginning,
now increasingly seemed to be but a drab and unexciting
mountain town.


In the early part of November I received a phone call from
my shipboard companion Marvin Gilbert, who had come to
Israel to attend a United Jewish Appeal convention. Marvin
was staying at the new Dan Hotel in Tel Aviv and invited
me to spend two days with him there. In my present state of
mind, I found the invitation most welcome. Marvin, however,
proved to be less than ideal company; he was more restless than
ever and literally couldn't sit still in one place for more than
fifteen minutes at a time.


But I found Tel Aviv exhilarating in contrast to Spartan
Safed (perhaps because Safed meant less to me now than it had
before), and I reveled in the cosmopolitan attractions of this
truly modern city. On the first night I went with Marvin to
a performance in Hebrew of <i>Samson and Delilab</i> in the Habimah
Theatre. Then, the afternoon I left, I attended a sumptuous
banquet given by the Palestine Economic Corporation
for the executive board of the U. J. A.


When I said goodbye to Marvin it was, as it turned out, for
the last time. On the ride back to Safed by autocoach, I felt

[p. <i>141</i>]

I had come to Israel to find a faith to believe in and to feel
needed. I had not found the faith and now I knew that I was
not really needed. Even at the hospital in Safed, I was really a
third leg. The two other doctors there, without me, could have
divided the work between them and each had fewer patients
to care for than I had had in Lantana.


Fortunately, there were two Americans riding with me,
both on their way to visit the dam project in Huleh. One was a
lawyer from New Jersey who represented an oil company
negotiating with the Israeli government for drilling rights; the
other was a student from Connecticut who was traveling as a
tourist. They were jolly, talkative fellowsboth as happy to
see a countryman as I. Because it was very late when we arrived
at Safed, I invited them to spend the night with me.


We stayed up until dawn talking about the United States,
Israel and the work I was doing. Both of my guests declared
that I was the greatest altruist they had ever met, and I could
not convince them, despite repeated attempts, that I had come
to Israel because of my own personal needs. Their expressions
of admiration only awakened my feelings of doubt and unworthiness.


A love affair with a country, like a love affair with a woman,
dies only slowly. Even after the knowledge that the white hot

[p. <i>142</i>]

In December the weather changed. It became cold and rain
fell continuously for days. The ground turned into a vast mud
swamp and the dirt roads became pocked with puddles. Fog
covered the town to the top of the mountain and Lake Tiberias
was rarely visible below. In the middle of the month snow fell.
There was no heat in my quarters and I sat huddled under
blankets in bed or in a chair, an ineffective, odiferous kerosene
stove beside me, frequently unable to read because the lights
had failed. When I tried to relax by playing cards, I was forced
to wear gloves and layers of sweaters and to stamp my feet
intermittently to prevent frostbite.


It was during this arctic spell that a scientific mission arrived
at the hospital to install a seismograph in the basement of one
of the buildings. One of the members of the crew was a young
American seismologist on leave from Columbia University. He
and I immediately struck up a warm friendship. It was a joy
to find a kindred spirit amid the execrable weather. But my
new friend also reminded me of all I had left behind and increased
my feeling of dissatisfaction. After he departed from
the hospital there seemed to be nothing in Safed to hold me
any longer.


Restless, I asked to be transferred to Jerusalem in order to
learn a certain surgical procedure. No one at the hospital was
trained to perform the actually minor operation, and patients
requiring it had to be sent to Jerusalem. My pretext for getting
away was certainly valid, and since Dr. Zalti could easily

[p. <i>143</i>]

But waiting was now very difficult. The week-ends were
the most difficult and I began to spend mine at the Dan Hotel
in Tel Aviv. The abrupt climactic change that took place in
the three-hour drive from Safed to Tel Aviv each time made
me think of the flight from New York to Miami in mid-winter.
Tel Aviv was warm, Tel Aviv offered things to do. Soon I
fell in with a lively group of bachelors living at the Dan who
enjoyed an evening on the town as much as I. We usually
started out in the hotel, visited diverse night spots and ended up
in the Rendezvous Club in Ramat Gan. After several of these
week-ends, dissatisfied with the inconvenient and unreliable
schedules of the autocoaches, I wrote to Lilian asking her to
trade in my car for a light station wagon and ship it to me.


In January, 1954, I met Marisa through one of my boon
companions. She was a dark-haired beauty who had been a
fencing champion in Italy before emigrating to Israel. In Israel
she worked for a shipping concern as a secretary. We enjoyed
being together from the beginning, and I began to make regular
visits to Haifa, where she lived, each week. We took trips
to Jaffa and Acre, hiked along the beach near Haifa and attended
parties in Haifa and Tel Aviv.


Our relationship was in all respects entirely "platonic."
Being Jewish, and in other ways quite eligible, she posed a
direct marital threat: anything I might do might involve me
with her too deeply. She had a habit of fawning over me
which, although it pleased me, also made me unhappy because
I suspected she thought of me as a ticket to the United States.
But as long as I maintained control I had nothing to fear.
And I genuinely liked her company. Before long I was journeying

[p. <i>144</i>]

In the early part of February, I received a letter from
Arthur stating that Lilian and he had purchased a new home in
Newark and were expecting to move in immediately. He also
wrote that they had purchased the station wagon I had asked
for and that it had been shipped out.


A week or so later I received word of the approval of my
transfer to Jerusalem and I departed from Safed.


Jerusalem possessed neither the littoral beauty of Haifa nor
the cosmopolitan vitality of Tel Aviv. Its outstanding quality
was an air of respectability and decorum, which the newcomer
sensed almost at once. There were no night clubs and few
bars. Social life revolved almost entirely about the family, with
an occasional concert or movie the exceptions to this rule.
The sobriety of Jerusalem was emphasized by the city's division
between two hostile nations. Huge coils of barbed wire separated
the Israeli and Jordanian sectors, and armed guards stood
atop houses on either side of the wire. Occasionally, the normal
street sounds were drowned out by staccato bursts of
gunfire.


One of the losses which had resulted from the partition of
the city had been that of the Hadassah Hospital, visible in the
distance on Mount Scopus. The facilities of the hospital were
now scattered throughout a number of buildings. A main
building housed most of the general medical and surgical
services, but many of the specialty services were located at a
considerable remove from this center. Although awkwardly
arranged, these facilities were well equipped, and the techniques
used by the physicians left little to be desired.


My duties were so arranged that I spent part of my time in

[p. <i>145</i>]

Again I was at a dead end in Israel. I had failed to find a
place where I was needed, I had failed to find a faith to give
my life a meaning, and, now, even this legitimate pretext of
study which I had seized to escape from Safed had turned into
a mockery. As I became more frantic, the pace of my social
life intensified, and I visited my drinking friends at the Dan
Hotel in Tel Aviv whenever I could.


And there were women. The most important to me was
Anna. I met Anna on one of my trips to Tel Aviv. She was
an exquisite Yemenite girl, small yet a perfect sculpture
Ashtoreth reincarnated. Her moist carmine lips and luminous
dark eyes set like gems in her tawny skin, were framed by long
black hair. Daughter of nomadic desert camps, Anna had come
to Israel with hope for a better life, only to have her young
husband and only child killed in the war, and to find herself a
widow at eighteen. Alone, confused and disconsolate, Anna
kept on living because living took no conscious effort and
went to bed with any man because she could no longer find
a reason not to. I recognized the tenuous nature of the qualities
which attracted me to her: her sheer physical beauty and her
sadness, which I longed to share. But they were adequate to

[p. <i>146</i>]

Some weeks after my arrival in Jerusalem, I was notified that
a station wagon consigned to me had arrived in Haifa. Filled
with joy and anticipation, I hurried to Haifa only to learn that
the customs forms had been improperly executed in the United
States so that I could not take possession. Until such forms
were properly executed and received, I would have to leave
the station wagon in custody of the customs department, unless
I was willing to pay an exorbitant tax. I appealed to the
Hadassah officials for help, but the customs department remained
adamant.


I sent off new formsbut my heart was not in itwas not
in anything I did in Israel any more. I felt a crescive indifference
to my work, to the language and to my surroundings. I
was aware that the high ideals with which I had journeyed here
were gradually giving place to Sybaritic pleasures which filled
me with guilt, but I did not care enough to attempt to change.


One day in the latter part of March, 1954, I was walking
with Marisa up one of the staircase streets of Haifa. We happened
to pass an elderly, wrinkled Yemenite woman, whom
Marisa referred to as a "Black Jew." I had never before heard
the expression, and stunned to hear it from one who had herself
fled to this land created as a haven for the persecuted and
homeless, I thought, "Oh, God, not here, too!"


At that moment, I realized that if prejudice could subsist in
the heart of someone like Marisa, then as long as there were
three persons alive on earth, two of them would conspire
against the third. Suddenly all my anguish rose up within me,
and turning to the unsuspecting girl at my side, I blurted out,

[p. <i>147</i>]

I immediately resigned from the Hadassah Medical Organization
in Jerusalem, returned to Tel Aviv and moved into the
Dan Hotel. After booking passage on an American freighter,
the S. S. <i>Exilona</i>, and setting in motion the process to obtain an
exit release for my station wagon, which I had still not seen, I
entered into a final social fling before leaving Israel. The Purim
holiday, a two-week Israeli version of the New Orleans Mardi
Gras, was in full swing, and every night I attended several
parties either in Haifa, Tel Aviv or both cities, often remaining
overnight at the Megiddo Hotel in Haifa despite the fact that
a room was simultaneously reserved for me at the Dan.


Three days prior to my scheduled embarkation, at the
height of the revelry, I was notified that my station wagon
would not be released for reason of an unexpected technicality,
and it was only through the help of Max, an executive friend in
Tel Aviv who knew many government officials, that I was finally
able to obtain clearance. Two nights prior to my departure,
I attended a mammoth masquerade ball given by a group
of Rumanians at the Dan Hotel. I spent my last night in Israel
at a party given by Max and his wife, Lisa, at their home on
Mount Carmel in Haifa. I got very drunk.


The next day, pale and queasy from a hangover, I boarded
the <i>Exilona</i> accompanied by Max and Lisa. We saw my station
wagon for the first time as it was being loaded on the ship, and
its newness was quite striking. Then, after fond farewells,
Max and Lisa departed and I stood alone at a ship's rail once
more, watching as the shoreline of Israel receded into the
horizon.

