Transcript of Audio File:
______________________________________________________________________________
BEGIN TRANSCRIPT:
[00:11:01]
THERAPIST: Hi. Come on in.
CLIENT: Hi. Did you get my message?
THERAPIST: Yeah I did. Where do you come from?
CLIENT: Westord. It's just such a hard. It's a (inaudible at [00:11:13]) It took me quite a few minutes. I try not to drive on Tuesdays because of the time. Usually like the school busses and stuff.
THERAPIST: Right.
CLIENT: I have to be at work like right at 00:10:00. So I need to drive after.
THERAPIST: I see.
CLIENT: It wasn't fun. But I found a good parking spot, so.
THERAPIST: That's good.
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: I wanted to ask you so I'm doing the bills for this month. And I'm not sure if I explained this piece of it to you so it's not a big deal at this point.
CLIENT: Sure.
THERAPIST: But the, so the sessions are only subsidized when you come.
CLIENT: Ok.
THERAPIST: So you know I do charge for last minute cancellations.
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: But so I don't get, so that's a piece of it. But I also, the session isn't subsidized when you don't come. So I'm not sure what to do about that. I don't want to charge you the full amount. [00:12:05]
CLIENT: Well, I think that's fair.
THERAPIST: I was thinking we could split it maybe. I mean I want to be fair to you. I mean I understand, you know I don't like the idea of you having to pay extra if you don't come. I mean it's one thing if you pay for your session, so.
CLIENT: Ok.
THERAPIST: I don't know, I don't know how you feel about it. I wanted to check in with you.
CLIENT: I mean I broke the agreement like when we started coming I knew that the last minute cancellations would get charged so I didn't expect it to be subsidized. So I mean I think that's fair, not one sided or...
THERAPIST: What I was saying is that maybe, so that, so I'm not, so that when you don't come I still lose money because they don't subsidize the session for those sessions.
CLIENT: Right. So it would be the 200.
THERAPIST: No actually it would be, it's less than that because they subsidize I think 50 dollars. [00:13:03]
CLIENT: Ok.
THERAPIST: Is that fair?
CLIENT: Yeah, yeah. I think that's more than fair.
THERAPIST: Ok. I just wanted to check with you. I didn't want to do anything I guess.
CLIENT: And that, was that just for the one Tuesday? Because the Wednesday I had, I guess a little more than 24 hour notice.
THERAPIST: Oh, see I don't do. Maybe I should, I don't do 24 hours notice. What I do is that, you know, the sessions are yours. So if you don't come to them I do charge. Except if we reschedule. I don't have a 24 hour notice policy.
CLIENT: Ok.
THERAPIST: And I can, that's typically how I do things. But I can also resend you the contract if you want.
CLIENT: Ok. I have a copy at the house I think.
THERAPIST: Ok.
CLIENT: Ok. I think that's fair.
THERAPIST: Ok.
CLIENT: And then it's not next week but the week after is when..
THERAPIST: Exactly, the 13<sup>th</sup>, the week of the 13<sup>th</sup> is when.
CLIENT: Ok. And then the week after is when I have to reschedule because..
THERAPIST: Oh, you'd asked about that. I will get back to you today about that. I apologize.
CLIENT: Ok. It's ok.
THERAPIST: I meant to get back sooner. [00:14:03]
CLIENT: Ok. Nothing much has been going on this week. The trip conversations have been going better. No stress there. So I feel like that's a little bit of an improvement because a lot of times when we have the fights with the trips they may last the whole planning process of the trip. But then this one was just the very beginning and then we quickly overcame it but, yeah, I don't know.
I was really busy this week. I couldn't even, usually I try to like think about what we talked about last week and I feel like, just feel like I haven't been here for weeks. It was just sort of like gym, have to. Crazy. [00:14:57]
Yeah, I don't know. I don't have much to say today. I'm trying to think of things that have been bothering me or, but no big concerns. Yeah, I don't know. I think, I don't know. Well an interesting comment comes out of Jamie mouth a lot where he asks me why feel loyal to people so much? And I think that I do feel some sort of strong loyalty and guilt and I don't know, I thought it was interesting that he picked up on it. He's mentioned it a couple of different times but I don't know. [00:16:01]
Well it started when we were talking about like work stuff and I was a little annoyed with like the scheduling and he was just, "Why do you feel so loyal to the company or even your parents, or?" And then he said that like, something to the effect of like, "I don't know if you ever.." It's like he thinks like my loyalty or someone will see it and that will fix the problem versus facing the problem dead on. And I kinda felt that was a little bit interesting.
But then that just made me think about like loyalty and guilt again. And why I'm so guilty, or feel guilty. But I don't know why. I think I just tend to feel, I don't know, bad all the time for something. I don't know, like last week when we were doing the schedule, there's someone who works a second job who's been like demanding an early shift all the time, which is fine to some degree but then there, I don't know I think it's just like I wouldn't ask for an early shift four days a week. Because I feel like this is my primary job so therefore the second job should be second. [00:17:17]
But I had to tell him that he couldn't have his early shift one day. And then I felt really, really bad about it. But I was like, he gets the early shift three days a week. He's not entitled to it. So if I give it to him all of the time, but I have a dentist appointment that I have to go to that I needed, or I don't know. But then I just felt really, really guilty. And that's, you know, something small. But I think in many situations I tend to feel like that. Or it's like I almost can't speak up to like claim what should be mine too. Or what should be fair. I don't know why it's like that. But and then when I do speak up I feel like I'm like, I don't know, I feel mean. And I don't know if it comes across like that because I ask for feedback, but I don't know if it's because I feel guilty because I know I'm saying something that makes me feel mean or, but yeah. [00:18:22]
I don't think it's like a matter of (inaudible at[00:18:29]) care what this person thinks if I speak up. I'm not sure it's that but I just, I don't know. I've spent some time thinking about that this week. But I feel like the guilt thing is like something I've really been trying to work on. Because like it prevents me from you know doing what's best for me sometimes. Because I feel so guilty about you know not doing something, or doing something, or saying something that I just kind of go back to pleasing someone else or. [00:19:08]
Because at first my original fault was like, "Should I call and reschedule my appointment?" But I'm like honestly it's hard to get an appointment either super early in the morning or late enough after work where it impact your schedules. And then I like stop and be like, "No, no. You're scheduling your dentist appointment so someone else can work their second job?" But I don't know. Then I feel like sometimes I'm just too..
And that led to another conversation where, you know, I think I may be too accommodating sometimes and a lot of times I feel like in a work setting, like, you know like, I feel like I think maybe a little bit bigger picture than it may appear. So it's like at the end of the day we're like squawking over who's going to work what shift and then something isn't covered I'm the one who's like, "Ok, I'll do it." Because I feel like my boss is the one who's like, she just sees it from the top. And it's like, "We need the coverage. We need something to be done. Do it." [00:20:11]
So I want to make sure that the job is done. But I think there's like a fine line between making yourself available, maybe like half the time extra I'm being flexible than the one always doing it. So I don't, yeah. Speaking up is, I'm not sure. So, we talked about that a little bit too. But yeah. And I kind of feel like it all just stems from like guilt or maybe I don't know, I kind of feel like I shouldn't, I don't know.
THERAPIST: What? [00:20:55]
CLIENT: Well it's almost like I feel like, I don't know. It's weird. Like why shouldn't I get the early schedule if I needed to? But it's like it's not, it's not their time to have or, I don't know. That's just one little example of how many different scenarios end up, so.
THERAPIST: But have you, when you say it's not their time to have, how do you mean?
CLIENT: Well I think it's like, not like Jerry's schedule is always H-4 and that's his permanent schedule. Like you know like, this is my time and if someone else needs it like you would maybe ask me if I could switch or something. Like we all kind of like merge together and like, "Ok, who's going to come in early? Who's going to do this?" And he's always like, "Well I need this." And I don't know. I think like my approach when I need an early time, usually I'm like, "Hey guys I have a dental appointment in a couple of weeks. I need the early shift that day. Is that going to be a problem?" So it's like I make sure that the time will be available before I go and schedule what I need to schedule. [00:22:01]
Or even when I say no, I'm going like, "I'm going to be in the office Friday but I have to leave at three. Do we have enough night coverage?" But he's just like, "Well, I have a second job." And like tough shit kind of, I leave to leave early. But there may be situations where you can't leave early. And when you do it three days a week it's just like too much. So like I think we're all being as flexible as we can to a certain degree to let you have that but like when stuff comes up you need to be here. So he was kind of put off.
And then like there was another day where he, Fridays he doesn't want to work late anymore. Because he has to work early on Saturday. So that's like a fourth day. So I'm kind of like, "It's really not my problem that you took a second job and you don't want to be tired the next day." Like there are many days where I'm tired. I don't know, so, that's what I kind of meant like, it's not like his personal permanent schedule. But it's almost like I feel bad to say I need that early time. [00:23:09]
THERAPIST: So what upsets you about him is that he just feels entitled to stuff.
CLIENT: Yeah well I think there's four of us that work closely together and two seem entitled. And then I'm extremely flexible as well as another girl who's really flexible. So we tend to get the crap, like you work until 7:00 on Friday. Which isn't a huge deal but I think it's not really fair when you're doing it two or three times a month and there's four of you. So one would think that you would do it maybe once or twice a month but. But yeah, it's like they're, I don't know I guess I just, maybe it's just my over dedication to work. But I feel like, "Don't you ask to make sure that the job can get done before you schedule these outside things?" [00:24:03]
But then it's like when I have to have a conversation like that I just feel really guilty and I don't know even if awkward's the word. But I don't know. I feel like guilty that I have to ask almost.
THERAPIST: Well it sounds like with this guy you feel put upon that he's putting you in a position where you have to say no.
CLIENT: Right. And I feel like something with me. It's like I don't like conflict. And I don't like having to say no. And so that's possibly it. But, and then I mean the other girl, like her boyfriend's a basketball coach. So like she comes in with this schedule that's like, "I need to be out early on this day, this day, this day and this day because I have all of these games." And I'm like, hey like I, I mean sometimes it's two to three days a week as well. So this, my other friend that I work with who's pretty flexible is kind of like, well we're stuck in this position where like sometimes both of them are leaving so early that like we are working really, really late. [00:25:08]
And that's again, like I feel like I'll comment that you can go to like one game a week. Or maybe even two games a week. I don't know I feel like you can't go to all of them. Like I don't go in being like here's like the gym schedule and I love doing yoga and Zumba so I want to work early every day and make sure that I can meet all the classes. I'm like, I usually pick one and that's you know my treat today or whatever. So yeah I don't know if it's that they're not looking at work as the most important thing. And I don't know if that's necessarily right. But I don't think that's right, I don't know, when you don't plan ahead. And you come in and you just say that's what you need and then leave us in a position where it's like this is so much trouble but what choice do I have? [00:26:00]
The choice is work late and like do it or like tell our boss that we don't have coverage. So I feel like I don't want to be the one to, I mean it's expected that if someone's out of the office it's like you will cover for them. So I mean like I guess I could have a conversation with them or my boss about it but then I just feel really awkward doing that.
THERAPIST: Or it reminds me of how you feel about your dad. That he just goes about being irresponsible and you're ultimately going to have to pick up the slack for taking care of him because he is your responsibility.
CLIENT: Right. And that's what I feel like in that situation. You know, pretty much the same thing. I feel like I'm like just thinking, "I already got the job done." You need, you know, someone needs to be here. If no one else is going to be here that person's going to be me. I feel like, actually really awkward having a conversation like, "Guys we need to chip in more." [00:27:06]
Because I feel like I'm not their manager. They're my peers. So it's weird for me to like like tell them what they need to do. Or, so, yeah, I don't, I always fill that position where it's like the choice is to just do it. So, I mean sometimes (inaudible at[00:27:31])One of the girls came in with a list of all the vacation days she wanted and it was like every holiday. And I was like, "Well I'm sure that no one's going to want to plan sometimes.." It was like Memorial Day, Labor Day, Fourth of July, Thanksgiving, Easter, Christmas. And it was like, "I don't know what my plans are going to be yet but I can assure you that at some point I'm going to want to use that time for a long weekend or something." And she was like, "So if you don't know, can I put in for it?" And I was like, "No. How about we decide like we take like three holidays each? Or I don't know. There's this stuff in my head that seems like a no brainer and it just really annoys me. [00:28:09]
THERAPIST: What's annoying about it?
CLIENT: I think I'm more annoyed that, it sounds a little arrogant but like they wouldn't have the common sense to think that someone like wouldn't have a problem with you taking every holiday or time off around the holiday. They know what the schedule and the staff looks like and that only so many people can be out at once. So I don't know or I just feel like, I don't know. And then maybe this is just the way that I perceive it and the way that she's, maybe her intention is different, but I tend to think like when she says it, I feel like she's not really running it by to ask. I feel like it's just a formality before she says, "I'm going to do it." [00:29:05]
So therefore I think, I don't know, just "What makes you think you can have all the days off? Or that it wouldn't be a problem?" Like I feel like I wouldn't even ask, like my approach would be like I would pick the ones that I want and then I would ask about them. Because I feel like if I ever brought a laundry list of time off, I don't know, it would just be like of course we all want time off near Christmas. Well mostly people do. And of course most people want to take advantage of like the Friday, long weekend because Monday's a holiday. I don't know maybe it's just two different approaches.
THERAPIST: Do you think you envy them for just being like "I don't really care. I'm just going to ask and see what I can get away with?" [00:29:57]
CLIENT: Hmm, I don't think I envy them using that approach because that's something I would never want to do. But I do envy them a little bit because at the end of the day they do get what they want. But one of the, the one with the laundry list of stuff, her bedside manner, I don't know. Like she has some like really, really good qualities as a manager. And then she has some that are like really, I cannot think are optimal. One of them is like her people skills. And so she'll like turn her staff away. Like whenever someone comes to me for a question, I always answer. Because I feel like, they're like dealing with a client, usually who's upset and they're in a hot seat. And it's not like they can be like extra, they can take their extra time to do research, like they need an answer now. [00:30:54]
So I think that's like kind of my primary focus, like to help people. And that's why, you know I want to do. But she'll, like she has no problem being like, "I'm doing this report. I'm busy." And then so it's kind of like, "Help me out. I don't know what to do." And she's like, "I don't know the answer." Whereas I'm the one who's like, "Let's look it up. I'll call my contacts." So it, what I'm getting at is she gets a lot more done and she's much more like productive when it comes to like project work. And so I find myself envying her that she gets all of that stuff done. You know like, "Oh, it's amazing that you get to do it." And the amount of time it takes me may be double or a little bit less than double. But then I think like to be like that I'm like I would never want to be like that to my staff. And that's just something can't do. So I feel like I am a little bit envious of the outcome but I feel like I feel kind of strongly that the way that they get there I don't know if I approve of it. [00:31:57]
And then I don't know if I'm kind of like that because I feel like guilty so I feel guilty telling someone no. And that's why I always help them. But I don't know, I think that might be over thinking it a little bit because our job is to manage the people. We're not part-time managers. I think that's a secondary function.
THERAPIST: Do you feel like, do you feel guilty because you feel like you should owe them something and you're not giving them that?
CLIENT: Like my teammates when they have questions or like the other people like with the scheduling?
THERAPIST: Or just any, like when you feel guilty, I guess I'm just wondering where the guilt is coming from.
CLIENT: Umm, no I, like I think with my team I do exactly like I like. I am the one like who gives them support and stuff. But as far as like other things where I feel like fairness comes, like the schedule, or closing, or vacation, I don't think I owe them anything. [00:33:08]
THERAPIST: So what do you think you feel guilty about?
CLIENT: I don't know. Maybe it's that, it's just like I feel bad. Maybe I just don't like, I mean I'm sure this stems much deeper but like I just don't like saying no so much. That it's that uncomfortable for me that I feel some sort of discomfort that I'm receiving this guilt? I don't know. But I find that I almost like shouldn't have to say no. Like I should be there to close if someone needs it. Or, but then like I think my rational side kicks in and it's like, I don't know, like if everyone else is saying no like you know, of course a lot of people say no too, like why is it, you know I know that my no doesn't count more or something but. [00:34:02]
THERAPIST: You just seem like if they're just sort of looking out for themselves that you feel it forces you into a position. Like you have no choice rather than to take on extra.
CLIENT: Right. And then I think like, back to like Jamie's and my conversation, like there is a fine balance of being flexible. I just don't know where to draw the line to be like, "Ok, like I'll take one for the team this week or next week." But that, like I actually did say something last week because my, I was supposed to close this Friday again and I had to be like, "Hey guys, I've closed three Fridays this month." And then there was like this big hoopla of like how they were going to work it out. And so I ended up saying like, "I'll do it. But keep in mind that I don't really prefer to close three Fridays and month." But I felt really weird saying that, or bad. [00:35:01]
THERAPIST: What comes to your mind?
CLIENT: I don't know. I guess like that I'm complaining because I have to close a bunch of Fridays. And I just feel like that sometimes I don't even care. Like I don't go out on weekends where like it ruins my plans or anything. Half the time on Friday I'm so tired I eventually come in home and have me a glass of wine and like sit on the couch and go to sleep early. But yeah, so just, bad to say no or you know. Or I guess what makes them think that I'll always be there to cover? Or that that will be ok. I don't know.
THERAPIST: Yeah. It sounds like that you feel that when they're deciding to, or asking things, that they also have a set of expectations for you. [00:36:06]
CLIENT: Right. Right. And so like even with the vacations then like I really don't feel like they're asking. I just think that they're more like, like the expectation is more like you will get the schedule you want. You will get the days off that you want. And then when you say no it's kind of like a shocking, so. I don't know. I think sometimes that it's a little bit of my own anxiety maybe around an issue. Like I think that something that kind of gets blown up in my head maybe. But then I, like there are definitely situations that, like the girl that's boyfriend's basketball games. Like her expectation is that you will say yes and she will go to all of the games. [00:36:57]
Because there have been conversations where we've said like, "Well we don't know." And she's like, "Well, I'm leaving at four that day." But I think is just kind of rude because that really does put us in a position. I mean unless we go away kicking and screaming and tell our boss. But actually like it shouldn't have to come to that. And I guess I don't know. I feel like if you go to your boss and say like, "So and so won't work her schedule. She's not flexible." It just makes the group look bad. I just think the group should be able to figure it out. I guess that's where I really feel like the conflict exists. So it's like, I'm trying to, she just cares about leaving at a certain time. And you choice is to do it or to talk to your boss about someone's inflexibility. Like I don't want to have to have that conversation with my boss. So I feel like we try to, let's rationalize. But then like if she doesn't like she's just so (inaudible at[00:37:59])to go to all the games. [00:38:00]
THERAPIST: Yeah, I guess what I'm struck by is people's requests. I feel like they are dictating your actions. Like they have to direct and immediate control over what you can do.
CLIENT: Um hmm. Except like when the question is asked, it's not really a question it's more of a statement. And I think that just bothers me too. Because I never say the (inaudible at[00:38:26]) Like I ask to make sure things are ok and then I plan accordingly. Because I always think what if I book a ticket and tell everyone like, "Oh, I'm not going to be here Friday after three" but everyone has to work early that Friday. Like then what? I'm sure I wouldn't have to be the one to cancel my plans because I have an airline ticket but I just feel like it's not fair if I did something like that. It's just that I'm more mindful of how it effects the overall group and not just myself. [00:39:03]
THERAPIST: The other thought, I kept coming back or thinking about this. When you had said something like if you had a session here and someone else needed it, then maybe I would tell you, or something. I'm not sure how you worded it.
CLIENT: Oh. Like when we were talking about like times for the schedule. Like, so I said like it's not his time to have. So it's not like he had a permanent schedule where, I don't know maybe it was just like a bad example. But it wasn't like a big open calendar and he was like can I. It is, no I can't. I think I may have used a bad example. But basically it's not like his set schedule where he's like, "My schedule every day is eight to four." And then if I said that I needed an early time then I'm taking something away from him. It's all like we're trying to plug in gaps and nothing is like a permanent schedule. So I don't know why he assumes that he can have a permanent schedule four days a week. [00:40:09]
THERAPIST: Maybe, yeah, I guess I misunderstood when you said this earlier. But right. You see a direct relationship between someone wanting something and someone taking something away from you.
CLIENT: Right. Yeah. But I think what I meant was like when I say that I need something early, it's not like I'm taking something away from him. I feel like I'm just asking for what's fair and supposed to be all of ours as well. But, if that makes any sense.
THERAPIST: Yeah. Well I guess I was make the, maybe the flip side that it does seem like one of the things that irritates you when people make requests or maybe demands but even requests, is that they're taking something from you. [00:41:02]
CLIENT: Yeah. Because I understand like they're taking my option to say no because I don't like to say it. Or they're taking my ability to like want an earlier schedule that day or, I don't know. Or I don't know why it bother, maybe it's because I'm private at work too. So I don't go in and like, "Hey guys I really like Zumba on Wednesdays so I need to be out of here by six." And I don't know. Like I don't state all of these requests unless they're like big ones. And then when other people lay out their whole calendar to me, it kind of, I don't know why it annoys me. But I'm kind of like, these are all like little extracurricular things. Where I think if I started getting like that too you would never have coverage. I think that's really, maybe in my head I'm like why is their basketball more important than my gym time. Or I don't know. [00:42:06]
I think there are different levels of this stuff. Like if it's to go to a doctor's appointment, I think that takes a little more precedence over you wanting to go to a basketball game three times a week. I don't know. Maybe I'm just overly dedicated to work and I feel like everyone should be that way too. But like we're in a role and we're supposed to like give and take. And there are long hours involved. Like there needs to be a little dedication there. And it's like, this is just like one example of many things like this. So yeah. And they always talk like I have no choice and the choices I have I tend to feel like it's kind of do it and be unhappy about it. Or don't have a relationship with my Dad. Or talk to your boss about the lack of flexibility. Or I don't know. [00:43:13]
But yeah, and I don't know if it's like, well Jamie is always like, "They're just taking advantage of you." And I don't know if it's, I don't feel that it's their taking advantage of me but I definitely feel like, "Why can't you look at the big picture and be mindful?" It doesn't take a lot to be like, I don't know. If I'm out and she's out, like this is how we need to fill in the gaps. And maybe I'm just too accommodating. Like before I plan something I'm thinking, "Is so and so going to be in the office? Are they going to be available? Is it Jerry's early day where he's going to complain about getting out early so that he can go to work?" Maybe none of that should be that horrible. But I feel like it's hard for me to be like, "Well I made the doctor or dentist appointment so therefore I'm going to leave anyway." [00:44:05]
THERAPIST: Yeah it does seem like you feel that other people's decisions become your problem.
CLIENT: Right. Because it kind of does. I mean in some situations when we don't have coverage or resources or..
THERAPIST: Well if you want to do something on the same day someone else does, it's a conflict.
CLIENT: Right.
THERAPIST: Which is somewhat different than your problem. Your problem is a different way of framing that you have a conflict.
CLIENT: Right. Well I feel like, and maybe this is like my inability to speak to them about it, but I feel like a conflict is that we both want to do something. But since most of the time only one of us can do it and then, I don't know, I feel like I just don't want to talk to my boss about anything like this. I feel like it should be able to be resolved at a certain level. [00:45:08]
But I feel like, their response is, "Well this is my job. I have to go." So then that becomes my problem because I feel like I don't have a way to, I don't know. Get what I want for lack of a better term. So I feel like I'm extra cautious so things like that don't happen. But then whenever people aren't, it just makes it hard.
THERAPIST: We're going to need to stop for today.
CLIENT: Sure.
THERAPIST: I will see you tomorrow.
CLIENT: See you tomorrow.
THERAPIST: Take care. [00:45:56]
END TRANSCRIPT
