TRANSCRIPT OF AUDIO FILE:
______________________________________________________________________________
BEGIN TRANSCRIPT:
CLIENT: I have decided to talk about something not so Meta to make this less hard core feeling.
THERAPIST: Sure.
CLIENT: Jeremy pointed out you can talk about whatever you want. So yesterday, I felt like I was going to faint during a lunch seminar and I watched myself very carefully and I don't know how the anxiety about fainting got so intense so quickly. So it's a classic like fainting setup. I was really tired, as you know. I was...Kelly asked me to be one of the students to take the speaker out to lunch at 1:00, so lunch talk. I normally would have eaten at noon. And even though I had eaten before coming here, by the time I got the talk, I was starving. 
[01:21]
I was sitting in the front row. So I'm like tired, sitting in the front row, and hungry and actually, yesterday morning was feeling like I didn't really want to go in to lab the way I was feeling except that I had committed to this lunch talk, so I had to get additional like, sort of like dreading this lunch talk because it as preventing me from doing what I wanted to do which was to rest. 
So I concentrated really intensely on the talk because it was really cool for like the first 20 minutes. And then I kind of started like zoning out because I was so hungry and...and then like five minutes, I like, I actually like got dizzy and like my vision went blurry and I felt like I had to like poop, which happens. And started having all these thoughts like, oh my God. Like I can't faint in this room. I'm like sitting on the front row. But then again, there are like 35 doctors in this room, so it wouldn't be that bad. And I'm like, I should just like get up and go to the back and eat and sort of like walk around and still listen to the talk. But like what if the speaker thinks I'm rude. Okay, I don't care if he thinks I'm rude. But Kelly is going to think it's weird. 
Kelly has a very judgmental approach to other people's behavior. Even though she is very...she's very perceptive and she can be very intuitive and get people really well that, for something like that, I would have a fear that Kelly would be like, why is she leaving the talk? Why is she leaving in the middle of the talk? And maybe that's just like mind reading. Like I don't actually know if she would ever say that. 
So it took an enormous effort, but I got myself up. Went to the back and like ate a ton of food, like walked around, listened to the talk the whole time and like felt better. And then proceeded to eat a second whole lunch at lunch. And yeah, that was it. It's a pretty familiar episode and I can't stop it. It's so fast.
[04:18]
THERAPIST: So it just hits you like that?
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: Still worry about fainting or the thought that you might faint and then the sort of like spike in your...?
CLIENT: Yeah. And I haven't been so where as I was yesterday that there was a big anxiety comes on. But it was really clear. I didn't have to poop. Like that was weird. And I...I don't know. I meant my blood pressure might have dropped a little bit...and my blood sugar, but there was nothing really drastic physically that caused this anxiety. It was like the anxiety about it caused some pretty strong physical sensations. [Pause]. 
[05:23]
THERAPIST: So I'm a little confused about what's what. So there's the sort of...concern that you're going to faint, and then there are symptoms associated with that. And then there's the anxiety that that evokes. I guess that's one that's associate with that.
And then there are sort of like anxiety symptoms too, right?
CLIENT: Yes. I think most of it is anxiety symptoms.
THERAPIST: I see. 
CLIENT: I think there is the knowledge that I'm hungry, the knowledge that I'm tired, and the knowledge that I'm in this big seminar in the front row. And like the feeling of being tired and hungry, but I was tired and hungry for the first 20 minutes of the talk and didn't...like it was sort of just like this lapse in concentration. My like mind darted to; oh this is sort of like the perfect storm for fainting. And had I stayed there, I might have fainted. Like it's not that it wasn't going to happen. I felt it coming on. 
THERAPIST: Right, yeah, and it's, I mean, you were hungry; you ate. It's like that made you feel better. You were still hungry, which meant you were awfully hungry before I would imagine. Yeah. [Pause].
[06:48]
CLIENT: So I mean my mom...my family; I grew up in a really structured eating household where that wasn't that much structure for other things. And it's because my mom and her mom both had sort of pretty strong sensations when they have low blood sugar and they have severe headaches and general malaise. And then my grandfather is diabetic. So both my mom, who does most of the cooking, and my grandfather, who is the elderly person who for whom there is a lot of service, have these sorts of constraints that...and just like my parents value eating dinner together. So we ate pretty much between 7:00 and 7:30 like every day my whole life together. It was a big thing to miss dinner, like to be with a friend. So there was both a family togetherness component and a...turns out when I was in a situation where I wasn't eating at the same time every day my body wasn't really used to that, and I guess my, emotionally, I wasn't really used to what it was like to, you know, stick it through...stick through that feeling of hunger. [Pause].
And then you add in fainting, like down the road, and some of the symptoms of hunger overlap with the symptoms. Like how you feel right before you're going to faint. [Pause].
THERAPIST: And I understand being hungry and now for having what can actually result in...
CLIENT: Yeah. But if I'm hungry at home, I never feel anxious. [Pause]. Because I'm in a very very known environment in which access to food or water is like available at any time even if I'm cooking dinner and it's not going to be ready for an hour or if I'm waiting for Jeremy or whatever. [Pause].
It's a lot easier to quell those uncomfort...discomfort of...to quell that discomfort.
THERAPIST: Yeah. [Pause].
CLIENT: Similarly, I never felt anxious at home around the wedding much. [Pause]. There's a pretty big difference sometimes between how I feel...if I'm sitting at the kitchen table around the counter doing anything and being out in the world. [Pause].
[10:30] 
My brother doesn't have any anxiety about eating. But he's sort of like a control. He grew up in the same like rigid food environment.
THERAPIST: Yeah, but so this is one of the problems in psychotherapy. Even when you start out talking about something different or trying to talk about something different...
CLIENT: That's why you can talk about whatever you want to, but I'm...I started talking about something different, which sets a different tone for me, and it's fine if it always gets back to the unifying thing.
THERAPIST: Okay.
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: It seems like...[pause]...you; sort of like you forgetting about the degrees of control you have or feeling subject to what other people are going to do or think. Like Jeremy reminds you that you can talk about what you want here, or...
CLIENT: Yeah, I sort of get like caught in this wave. [Pause].
THERAPIST: And...it may be true that Kelly would think critically of you if you hadn't gotten up and walked to the back of the room, but there really, in my mind, that would be quite striking in that she's known you for quite a while and I would imagine knows you well enough to know that you kind of wouldn't just do that in an irresponsible...unless there is good reason.
CLIENT: Yeah, I guess that's true. [Pause]. Sometimes she like can be way more evil in my head than how she really is. And actually, I have a pretty healthy relationship with her now compared to in previous years. So I don't think I'm being irrational all the time, but I am...there are actually times to be like a culture of irrationality when it comes to Kelly and what her reactions might be. She's pretty unpredictable. But she didn't notice at all. Like I watched her. And I asked a question at the end of the seminar and I was sitting in the back of the room by then and she like called on me and was very happy to have me asking a question and didn't indicate any...you know, it's stupid. But it was just the thing that was in my head at the time of like, I feel bad, but I can't get up. 
[14:06] 
THERAPIST: Yeah, there is something about the way that you feel trapped and subject to other people. [Pause].
CLIENT: Dun, dun dun. I think that's bold. [Pause]. Because there aren't a lot of people who always make me feel trapped, but okay; a second time. 
THERAPIST: This is where...it leads to me kind of the other things we've been talking about, whether it's in here and like as I said, what I would think or what inaudible 14:56] were like. Again, I guess I go back to the jazz rehearsal...[pause]...where there seems to be some danger. And maybe it's your own judgment for them.
CLIENT: I think it's my own judgment too.
THERAPIST: Mine or that of someone else. Yours. Or maybe it's your own judgment kind of placed on somebody else. Although it sounds like it wasn't there with Kelly. I don't know.
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: But I guess I could imagine these are all situations where there is some way that you feel trapped or limited that you're not for...
CLIENT: What's the evidence that I'm not? 
THERAPIST: You can talk about what you want here or...
CLIENT: Or like that I got up?
THERAPIST: Yeah.
CLIENT: Yeah. [Pause]. Or like that I can go to jazz rehearsal and play whatever I want and it's fine. [Pause]. But it still feels bad. 
THERAPIST: Yeah, it could be your own self criticism you're most concerned about.
CLIENT: Like the trap is still there.
THERAPIST: Uh huh sure. No, it could be very realistic that it sounds like there were times you have left something like a [inaudible 16:45] or something or felt crummy about how you did or really felt bad even regardless of how well [inaudible 16:51] you played.
CLIENT: Yeah, Jeremy's pretty good about giving me positive feedback at rehearsal when he feels there is something positive. And I resist that feedback pretty strongly. I think I don't do that elsewhere, but maybe I do. 
The other thing about jazz that's strange is that I can't really bring myself to practice. [Pause]. And I'm not like the most...I'm not like so disciplined compared to the average graduate student, but you know, I get stuff done. I can make a schedule and stick to it. And I can't seem to keep practicing in my life because it sort of feels icky. Unless it's part of like the conclusion as a breakdown about jazz a couple of weeks ago. Jeremy and I would come up with a curriculum. We sort of did. Like I wrote down some stuff that seemed like a good thing, like good exercises to do, but it's been like two weeks. I haven't practiced at home. [Pause]. 
I feel a lot of relief if I ever do practice. [Pause]. And I used to be a pretty serious practice in high school. A little bit in college. I played in big bands for 11 years and was excellent...an excellent Sax player, and that's sort of a niche spot in a big band.
THERAPIST: I'm sorry, a what?
CLIENT: Like a niche.
THERAPIST: No, no, that I got. A Sax player?
CLIENT: Oh, a saxophone. 
THERAPIST: Oh okay. Alright.
CLIENT: So there like aren't a lot of alto saxophone players. And if you're a good big band alto saxophone player, there are a lot of opportunities to play. 
THERAPIST: You're in demand.
CLIENT: I am in demand. So that was cool and I practiced a lot when I had like fear of not staying in the band or like band audition to get in a band, or a performance coming up and all of that structure is like gone away now. Performances, which do drive me to practice in graduate school, but otherwise...it's almost like the rehearsals aren't so anxiety provoking that I don't care that much about sounding bad. And if they were, I probably wouldn't do it anymore. But they're not sort of...I'm not at ease enough with them to want to have that experience more than once a week. [Pause].
In some sense there is more relief at rehearsal than at when I practice. You have to be in the moment and there is not a lot of like, oh boy, that did not sound good. I mean there can be in my head, but I can't stop playing in the middle of a solo. Plus I get the positive feedback of hearing other people, which is super motivating. And when Jeremy will, like once a year, practice, it's really motivating to him, like to hear him play along with me. [Pause].
THERAPIST: Well...[pause]...I guess what I think is, I think you may be kind of unconsciously more concerned than you think about how you're going to come across and that your own judgment and self criticisms are significantly a mechanism to try to manage that other worry.
CLIENT: That seems reasonable. [Pause].
THERAPIST: But actually I'm not the origin of the judgment or criticism actually isn't like from some internal dissatisfaction with myself. It's more what you said, concerns about how I'm going to come across. 
Remember in high school starting to build like a really strong sense of who I was and how I came across. And that was...those two went like hand in hand. And I think I got a lot of confidence through that process, but it was almost like if you seem confident, then you will start feeling more confident. [Pause]. And I did. I didn't feel like I was suppressing or hiding anything. I don't remember exactly when or how this is all...but I remember processing...sort of picking and choosing things that I liked about myself that I wanted to enhance. [Pause]. 
[25:19]
And there were a couple of, I want to say men, but we were like 15, so there were some pretty significant boys who sort of were a part of that shaping process, or like where I could bounce off that process, like off of somebody who was paying close attention to me. [Pause].
THERAPIST: What did you have in mind about those boys?
CLIENT: I just remember...[pause]...like the thing about picking and choosing or identifying things that I liked was sort of shaped by like what certain either like what I liked in other people or like what certain people liked in me or liked seemed attracted to. 
So most of those people were men because I like had had it with females in middle school. I sort of like lost all my female friends because I was becoming too nerdy. And then just had like one or two female friends in high school and like a whole slew of male friends. So maybe it was just like they were just fortunately, more important because they were disproportionately represented. But...
THERAPIST: It wasn't the gender per se so much as the numbers.
[27:34]
CLIENT: Yeah. And like boys are kind of important in high school to a girl, so yeah, there were some pretty significant people.
THERAPIST: Did you date much?
CLIENT: Uh huh. I think this whole thing was a cycle because I started getting really really attractive to a certain kind of boy and I think I really liked that. And then you know, they were like all musicians, like four musicians. [Pause]. Or three musicians who like were smart and one of them is a film maker now. We were like cool and smoked weed and read poetry and philosophy and excelled in a very very...[pause]...sort of like rare way in music. 
THERAPIST: Do you mean how talented they were?
CLIENT: Yeah, and how they were able to be so talented at other things, like got in to Harvard and Yale and I guess these are two main guys, who played drums. And one played piano. And there was another guy. At college, my first month, he played drums. And there weren't a lot of females who sort of fit in to that world because there were like three people in jazz band in the first place. And all the really smart girls who were kind of cool and wrote and played Chess and were sort of independent minded were...maybe didn't have that much sex appeal from what I...from my own interpretation of them. Because they were really cool too, but I guess I sort of had this combination of the two that I was cultivating and was also deeply introspective and was very very sort of like intense person to be with one on one. 
So...yeah. I mean I'm just sort of talking. I don't have a theory about this. But what you said reminded me of that. I remember actively cultivating things that may have been really good to feed back from these people.
THERAPIST: Uh huh. We should stop for now, but we'll talk more on Wednesday.
CLIENT: Okay. 
END TRANSCRIPT
