TRANSCRIPT OF AUDIO FILE:
______________________________________________________________________________
BEGIN TRANSCRIPT:
THERAPIST: How are you today?
CLIENT: I'm not doing so well. (pause) So on Saturday night we had Sydney's birthday party and afterwards (pause) he was a bit...he was drunk. He was very depressed and he started getting worried about things and he almost broke up with me because he was thinking, or worrying, about the fact that we weren't sexually compatible. Even though, I think...when we do sexual things together we both enjoy it. He said as much. He said that he enjoys doing things with me and (pause) I'm like (pause) the best partner that he's had. Except I guess he's afraid that A) he's making himself think that and B) because we haven't been doing lots of sexual things lately and he hasn't been wanting to do it and it's because we're not sexually compatible. I'm like, I just think if we're attracted to each other and we have enjoyable sex (pause)...it's something (ph) with sexual compatibility. I was thinking that he was looking for something to make wrong and I think...he's depressed and the reason why we're not doing sexual things is because he's depressed. [00:01:24]
THERAPIST: What's his libido right now?
CLIENT: Really low.
THERAPIST: Okay, so that's been like that for a while.
CLIENT: It's been like that for a while.
THERAPIST: Is that what he thinks is the incompatibility, that your libido is higher than his?
CLIENT: No because in normal circumstances his libido would be...when he's not depressed his libido would be up just as high as mine. 
THERAPIST: Okay, so is that what he's referring to?
CLIENT: No, he just thinks (pause)...like he can't...I asked him why and he couldn't really pinpoint anything.
THERAPIST: So he can't really describe what incompatibility is in his mind.
CLIENT: Yeah, especially because he does enjoy doing things with me. Because it's a lot of "what ifs" that he was believing in that he was like, "No, what if..." and "I don't know" then...
THERAPIST: Is this to do with your vaginal pain?
CLIENT: No, but I asked about that. (pause) Because then if we're only having oral sex—and he said that I am the best oral sex that he's ever had—then I don't see what the problem is. I think I would have figured out if we were incompatible he's okay with not having vaginal sex right now. We can work up to it or whatever. (pause) That's not the problem. [00:02:36]
(pause) At least he didn't say, until I think the problem is that he's depressed and he was just worrying. And the next morning he said that he was just worrying and he was depressed and he didn't think that we were sexually incompatible after all and it was just like (pause) I was still sort of traumatized. 
THERAPIST: Yeah, that's a scary conversation to have.
CLIENT: Yeah, well he was talking about all these things and he was like, "But you know, you're so wonderful (pause) and good to me and the right amount of nerdy (ph)," blah blah blah. All of these things that I'm just like, "No, you have to be with me because you want to be with me, not because you're afraid of losing me." (pause) And he's afraid of losing his emotional support, I wouldn't be in his life, I'm his best friend, etcetera. I'm like, "That's not (pause) reasons to stay." And just like so many things that hurt so much and I was like holding him because he needed holding and then after he decided that he wasn't breaking up with me I told him that I was sort of traumatized by the conversation. I needed him to hold me and stuff and he was all like, "I need to escape and..." (pause) And he didn't really want to... [00:03:44]
THERAPIST: Take care of you.
CLIENT: Yeah, and I was just like that is completely and totally unfair. (pause) I give you emotional support (pause) while you were telling me all these things that now are going to worry me for a long time. (pause) And I don't know what would prove sexual compatibility other than (pause) (sigh) doing sexual things again which may not happen for a while because his libido is down. (pause) So I'm sort of...he said that he decided it wasn't a reason to leave me and stuff but I shouldn't be sitting around and waiting for the other shoe to drop.
THERAPIST: But you had no warning this conversation was coming?
CLIENT: I had no warning this conversation was coming. Other than he started to be like, "Oh, if we broke up would you still be friends with me?" And I'm like, "Yeah, why are you talking about this?" [It's sort of] (ph) why not do it from there? But other than that I had no warning. Because first he was happy drunk and then he got depressed drunk. But then when he was sober even the next morning he was still depressed and at first he was like, "I'm not sure whether or not we're compatible." And then later (pause) he felt better and he was like, "Okay yes, it was my depression." So I'm like, "Okay well if you get this depressed again I reserve the right to tell you that (pause) you are depressed. This is your depression. Depression lies." [00:05:09]
(pause)
THERAPIST: That's really hard to go through.
CLIENT: Yeah, if he told me that he wasn't enjoying things that would be one thing but like, he said he wouldn't lie to me and he does enjoy things and that's why I'm so confused as to why. It's not like he has some kink or something I'm not into or anything like that. It's not (pause)...there's no reason to think sexual incompatibility other than the fact that we haven't been having sex because he's been depressed, which I don't think is a reason to consider it a sexual incompatibility. You know?
THERAPIST: Yeah, it sounds like that's not (pause)...maybe that's not the issue or an issue.
CLIENT: That's the issue that he was saying.
THERAPIST: That's what he was saying.
CLIENT: Yeah. And I didn't think it was an issue so I was certainly confused and like you know...(pause) he's like, "Well if it was true (inaudible)" but I'm like, "It's not... (pause) you're not... (pause) I don't think you're right about this and if we are sexually incompatible then yes we shouldn't be together but I don't think that's true." [00:06:23]
(pause) And just like some of the things...and he was like, "But I still love you." And he I guess he didn't want to break up with me because he still loved me and then after the fact he was telling me he loved me, he loved me, he loved me and I'm like, "You were telling me that when you weren't sure about whether or not you were going to break up with me. That isn't going to reassure me." You know?
(pause)
THERAPIST: So how are you feeling today, after having this conversation and having some time from it? What are you left feeling?
CLIENT: (sigh) Still a little bit anxious. I took a quarter (ph) of (inaudible) this morning before I left for work. I mean also I (pause)... maybe I didn't have quite enough for breakfast. I just had lunch before (pause) our session and so like I still think I'm waiting for the food to affect me. I was feeling a little bit better yesterday but then we had been up so late that he slept in and we didn't have that much time and then he went to practice and got out a half hour late. Or he said it would end at 6:00-6:30 but he didn't respond to my text at 6:00 when I was like, "Are you still going?" And before that, in the middle of it, I was going crazy and I really wanted him to leave early. I shouldn't have asked him not to go but I felt bad doing that. I didn't want to...because we had just had that conversation. The fact that then he spent another 15 minutes after Practice talking to people and then came home. He didn't bother texting me or anything. I was like, "You should have had some consideration considering what we...what happened last night, in light of that. This time you should have come home earlier." Because he was like, "Oh, it's completely reasonable to talk for 10-15 minutes with friends." Meanwhile, these were friends that were at the birthday party that night too, for the most part. [00:08:06]
So I was like, "You just saw them last night." And I just was like (pause) with insanity. He didn't text me before he left and I was just so worried and worried and worried that he wouldn't respond and how late is Practice going? I don't know, what if it goes past 7:00 and I had no way of knowing and I don't like this whole open ended not knowing when it's going to end thing. Now I know to tack on an extra 15 minutes for talking to people but (pause) I thought he would leave right away. Especially then because the person running the game left right away and other people stayed and talked and he could have done the same thing. Because he was like, "Oh, you can't just leave." But the person running it left so he could have been like, "Oh, I need to go now," and didn't.
I tried to explain this. I mean I got really mad when he got there, I got so angry, and I was yelling at first and then I regretted yelling at him but I was really angry. And when I tried to explain my point of view he was all like (pause) cowering and I'm like, "I'm not yelling at you now. I'm just trying to explain why I'm upset. Why can't you understand it?" I don't want to be controlling but (pause) I was going crazy and I needed him and he (pause) wasn't available (pause) when considering he almost broke up with me the previous night. That was not (pause)...that was bad. That was really bad. (crying) [00:09:31]
THERAPIST: It felt really unfair.
CLIENT: It was just really unfair. (pause) Like, he really shouldn't have done that to me and I guess they're not going to have Practice for another couple of weeks but like (pause) still...
THERAPIST: But that's not the point right? The point is that you felt like he was not being considerate of your feelings, regardless of where he was or what he was doing. What you are angry about is feeling like he didn't consider what you were feeling.
CLIENT: Yeah. (pause) He was all like, "Well you know...think about if you were the guy and I was the girl and then you were going crazy for me being late. Wouldn't that be controlling?" But like, it's not that I don't want him to be at Practice, it was just that we had this traumatizing conversation the night before (crying) and I was still traumatized and (pause) he wasn't responding and I want him to tell me when he's getting out. That's respectful. I wish he had said, "Okay, we're ended. I'd like to talk to people for another 15 minutes," or, "I'm going to talk to people for another 15 minutes and then head home." He could have done that and it didn't even occur to him to text me. [00:10:42]
THERAPIST: Would you expect that had you not had this conversation the night before? Is that typical for you guys?
CLIENT: I mean, I wouldn't expect him necessarily to say, "I'm talking for 15 minutes with people," but I would have expected him to text me when he was on his way home (pause) because usually he does and it didn't even occur to him to do that. And he was like, "I came home right away." That's the other thing, he's all like, "I came home right away," and I'm like, "No you didn't. If you came home right away you would have been here 15 minutes ago. You wouldn't have been here...you would have come home when Practice ended and not 15 minutes after Practice ended," plus driving time. He ended up getting there at 7:00. 
And I guess I was also hoping Practice would end at 6:00 and it didn't. It ended at 6:30 but (pause) I just was going crazy. (pause) And he didn't want me to get mad at him for Practice and then I ended up getting mad at him but it was because the fact that we had a...that I was still really, really, really upset and (crying) he was all like, "[How did I upset you?] (ph) and I'm like, "That's not...just because...you're ignoring the fact that you hurt me a lot and (pause) I think you should do something to make up for it." (crying) And he thinks, "Well you shouldn't make demands." And I'm like, "Well, (pause) I just want to feel accepted again and (pause) feel like you actually do want to be with me and after hearing that it's really hard and I think I do deserve something nice to make up for it." (crying) [00:12:18]
THERAPIST: What would make up for it?
CLIENT: Well what I told him was like if I could get more random hugs and stuff and more physical affection to show that you actually are still attracted to me and want to be with me and you didn't do that. I guess he...after we had gotten in a fight he was asking me for hugs but he never went up and hugged me. And he was like, "Oh, well it doesn't count if I don't go up and hug you," and I was like, "I wanted extra hugs because I'm feeling miserable and I wanted it to be random. It's not random if come over...if you're sad and ask me for (pause) hugs." I need more hugs than I normally need and I wanted him to like stay and come home with me for a few minutes before...because I went to bed before he did. 
Also he ended up staying up till 5:00 last night too. At least he did try to go to bed to sleep at one point but it never occurred to him to take the Ambien when he was lying in bed and couldn't fall asleep (pause) which is really annoying because I can't really help him if he doesn't help himself, (pause) especially if I'm asleep at that point. [00:13:24]
Just...I don't know. Or maybe something romantic or something to make up for it. Just to get my mind off the fact that we almost broke up. Maybe I'm being unreasonable but (pause) (crying) I'm trying to articulate my needs and not just let it all (pause) fester and stuff.
THERAPIST: The tricky part is that (pause)...well I guess two things. One—kind of the language to make up for it. It makes it sound like an obligation and I think what you're really asking for is reassurance (pause) and there's absolutely nothing wrong with wanting reassurance and wanting the reassurance to come in the form of physical affection. I don't think that's unreasonable at all. That sounds like a really appropriate and kind of expected sort of reaction that you would want that reassurance. [00:14:20]
CLIENT: Especially because saying "I love you" isn't going to help when he was saying "I love you" when he was still debating whether or not he wanted to break up with me. (crying) "I love you" doesn't mean anything in that context. It doesn't mean he doesn't want to break...that he's not going to break up with me. It means he'd be really sad if he did break up with me but that's not the same thing. That's not reassurance.
THERAPIST: It doesn't feel reassuring.
CLIENT: It doesn't. (pause) And I don't know.
(pause)
THERAPIST: I think the tricky part is that when you're (pause) demanding (pause) certain things they then lose some of their power. Right? So in part I can hear you sort of try to get around that by saying, "I want random hugs." Then it doesn't feel like a demand anymore. Then it feels like when you're getting them, they might feel more natural. But I wonder if it doesn't work for him because he's already heard that. He'd already heard the, "I want this. I deserve this." [00:15:21]
CLIENT: (crying) I don't know...but I do deserve things.
THERAPIST: Everybody does.
CLIENT: Like, if he wants to treat me right I guess this would be the way to treat me right. If you hurt someone you try to fix things. (crying) (pause) You ask them what you can do to make up for this thing that you did wrong.
THERAPIST: Did he do that?
CLIENT: No. (pause) I guess he just assumed that everything would be fine now that...I don't think he realized how much he hurt me at the time.
THERAPIST: Did he apologize for hurting you?
(pause)
CLIENT: I think so, maybe. (pause) If he did it just didn't really register. He apologizes for things all the time but doesn't necessarily fix them. So it doesn't really help me to say he's sorry. When it's like he's depressed and I'm trying to get him to do something that I can't do myself or that he needs to come with me or get out of the house or whatever, he says, "I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry." He continues to not do the thing. [00:16:31]
THERAPIST: That doesn't feel very genuine.
CLIENT: Yeah. I'm like, "Okay, you can be sorry but that doesn't really help the things if it's still going wrong." (pause) Maybe I should just let it go at this point, I don't know.
(pause)
THERAPIST: What would make it feel...what would make the relationship for you feel more secure?
CLIENT: If we made out and stuff again and I can't demand that of him because he doesn't have the libido so just doesn't (inaudible). If he could want to be more cuddly with me and stuff and came up to me and hug me and stuff that would make me feel more secure I think. Physical affection would be...because words don't mean anything. (crying) Him telling me he loves me, or even telling me he wants to be with me because he wanted to be with me when he was debating to break up with me. (crying) [00:17:37]
THERAPIST: Have words ever meant anything or do you feel like they've lost their meaning?
CLIENT: I guess I feel like they've lost their...I mean, sometimes they do but I guess (pause) they have because what does it matter if he loves me if he's not going to treat me well and if it doesn't feel like he loves me. It needs to feel like it. (crying)
(pause)
THERAPIST: I wish you did feel loved, feel wanted, and feel secure. I wish you felt those things.
(pause)
CLIENT: I used to and now I just feel so insecure right now.
THERAPIST: That makes sense in the wake of such an upsetting conversation...I guess in the wake of the upsetting conversation and then his lack of recognition of how upsetting that was for you. That sounds like that's the part...the second piece that makes it feel even different, even worse. [00:18:45]
CLIENT: Like if he had realized how much he had upset me and was like feeling bad about hurting me that much, instead of being like, "I'm hurting too."
THERAPIST: He's thinking of himself while you're (ph) thinking of you and in a secure relationship you feel like the other person is taking into account your needs and your feelings in addition to your own.
CLIENT: He felt better getting it off his chest and now I guess he feels more secure that he had addressed the issue of the sexual incompatibility. But now I feel less secure.
THERAPIST: Yeah, you feel worried (pause) because you don't really understand what he was talking about. Doesn't really make sense to you.
CLIENT: It just doesn't. If we were having really bad sex it would be one thing but we weren't (crying) and so it doesn't... (sigh) I guess he was misinterpreting things and stuff but (pause) even if he did acknowledge...he did acknowledge that it was his depression but that doesn't really help me. Now that he said it I'm going to worry about it. (crying) [00:19:47]
THERAPIST: Well he's not really capable of making the depression just disappear either.
CLIENT: I know.
THERAPIST: The depression that's clouding his judgment is there and that's happening for you too. The way that you are filtering things and perceiving things is also impacted by feeling pretty anxious and feeling pretty down. (pause) I can't really compare his level of depression and your level of depression but I think it's safe to say that you're both suffering.
CLIENT: Yeah, I guess the difference is just even when I'm depressed I'm more functional than he is so therefore I might be just as depressed as him but because I'm not actively trying to hurt myself and because I can get up and do things even while I'm depressed, his depression is worse, or registers as worse even though it might actually not be.
THERAPIST: Is he actively trying to hurt himself? [00:20:43]
CLIENT: Not this second but he was. When he gets really upset...he'll like (pause)...he'll do things like start banging his head against the pillow or something to avoid banging his head against the wall.
THERAPIST: He's able to keep himself safe in that way.
CLIENT: Yeah, but I still get worried to the point that...
THERAPIST: Sure, that's...
(overlapping voices)
CLIENT: He's also like chomping his teeth down and I'm like, "Okay, you're going to break your teeth or something." A couple times I've considered calling 911 which he really doesn't want me to do and I'm trying to explain to him, "If you got this bad that I can't control you, you're bigger than me. I'm tiny. You need the help. It will help you." He's all, "Oh, I'll never be able to get a job." Blah blah blah. And I'm like (inaudible) he has some really nice health plans so they would cover a stay at a mental institution. It wouldn't necessarily be for a long time, probably a week at most but more likely 72 hours. And (pause) in freshman year of college for my brother he was really suicidal and was hurting himself and may attempt suicide and ended up in a mental hospital for a week. (pause) And then he graduated and then he had this cushy job that he worked with his friends for a lot of money and then he worked for another company for a lot more money, and now he's a PhD in accounting, or a PhD student in accounting. Like, going and visit...HIPAA laws and all that, it's not going (pause) to hurt your career. [00:22:22]
(inaudible) "My parents will tell me I need to come back to Kentucky." I'm like, "Your parents don't need to know." I guess it's one thing to be afraid about getting into a mental hospital—I'd be afraid too—but he's afraid for the wrong reasons.
THERAPIST: What would you be afraid of?
CLIENT: I guess I'd be afraid of never being able to get out, (pause) that they'd keep me there forever and that no one would be there to see me and also it would be even more complicated by the whole trying to keep Kosher and stuff like that. I doubt they have Kosher food and also sitting there and being bored to death because I think they take away everything (pause) except for maybe books. But I wouldn't be able to use the Internet. I wouldn't be able to knit. I wouldn't be able to be in touch with anyone and it would scare me. I mean it's the loss of freedom. [00:23:14]
So I guess I could understand the fear of loss of freedom and if he said that was why I'd be like, "Okay that's understandable." But because his fears, or as he's expressed them to me, are these things that aren't true, stuff like (pause)...it gives me less of a reason to (pause) not want to call an ambulance or something if he's really getting that bad. I don't know where the line is. Is the line when he actually draws blood or does something that would be damaging to himself as opposed to passing hurt or something like that? Is it when he makes an attempt on his life? Like, when do you call?
THERAPIST: Well, I think there are two separate things. One question is when do you call and then the other question is (pause) what is hospitalizable (ph). You call when you feel he's unsafe to himself, like going to imminent danger and risk.
CLIENT: Of death or of serious harm?
THERAPIST: Serious harm.
CLIENT: Okay, so like banging his head against the wall, not necessarily unless he was drawing blood, sort of thing?
THERAPIST: (pause) I mean, banging his head against the wall how hard? There all somewhat subjective, right? Banging a head against the wall you get a headache. Banging your head against a wall really, really hard can give yourself a concussion. So those are different things. Headache—not really that risky. Clearly it's a sign that he's really (pause) agitated and really uncomfortable and really upset and that's concerning. But I think we have to judge how hard is hurting...how badly is he hurting himself here? If you're afraid that he's concussing then you might want to call...and you don't feel like he's going to stop. So part of it is, "Is this a one-time deal? Is this repeated?" If this is repeated then that is more problematic than if it's like... [00:25:12]
CLIENT: It just happened a few times, like usually when he feels too under pressure, I'm attacking him or something—even though I'm not attacking him. (pause) Usually I will tell him to stop or hold him down and he will stop eventually.
THERAPIST: And so I think the other piece here that's concerning is the dynamic that's being created, because you feel responsible for his safety and you feel responsible—in sounds like from what I'm hearing—you feel responsible for controlling his behavior. And that's an unfair burden on you. You are not responsible for controlling someone else's behavior.
CLIENT: But you can't really sit by while they actively try to hurt themselves, can you? You can but like...
THERAPIST: So this is how you...let him know what the options are. It's not fair for you to have to sit there and watch him hurt himself. That must be very painful for you. This is someone that you love and care about so you have to put the responsibility back on him. And you can say to him, "It's not...I can't sit here and watch you do this to yourself. So if you can't stop yourself then I'm going to make the call." Then the deal becomes between him controlling himself and being able to somehow manage his distress in a way that's not threatening to him and not threatening to you. And if he can't do that, then you give that responsibility to someone else. You give that responsibility to the mental health worker. [00:26:46]
They probably won't hospitalize him for something like that.
CLIENT: Probably not.
THERAPIST: But what you've done is you've shifted the burden to figuring out whether or not how dangerous it is. You've shifted the burden to a professional rather than his girlfriend. And if he really doesn't want you to make that call, if he's terrified about having to go to the hospital...
CLIENT: Which he is.
THERAPIST: ...then he'll control his behavior (pause) if he can. And if can't control his behavior then that's a good barometer, right? Because if he can't control his behavior and keep himself safe then maybe he does need to be in either a hospital or some sort of long...it doesn't need to actually be this most scary locked ward that you guys are imagining. But it needs to be at some place where someone can help him (pause) put parameters on how he's managing the distress. 
CLIENT: I guess I'm also afraid, he sometimes will take his anti-anxiety but I don't think they're enough. I don't think they do anything. Of course he had his appointment with his psychiatrists last Thursday. They talked about it in general whether or not they should up the meds and didn't. But I'm wondering...I guess he could call about it. But I think his anxiety meds aren't doing enough. And I don't know if it's because he's on the wrong anti-anxiety med or if it's just because it's a smaller dose. He's on Ativan. I don't know what the dose is off the top of my head. If I were at his place I would be able to look at it. (pause) It's probably like the smallest dose. [00:28:16]
THERAPIST: You're clearly concerned and you're in a position to be able to see how he's affected but it's not your job to be figuring out what the right dosage or the right medication is. But you can turn that over, like if you're afraid...if one of your concerns is that he's not accurately describing what he's experiencing to his therapists...
CLIENT: Yeah, which I think is a concern.
THERAPIST: You can do that, you can call and say, "Hey, I'm so-and-so's girlfriend. I know you can't talk to me but I just want to let you know that this is what I'm seeing at home and I'm really concerned." You're allowed to share information with his therapist if you know who his therapist is.
CLIENT: I do.
THERAPIST: He or she can't (pause) report back to you but they can certainly listen to the information and then take that into consideration. That's a perfectly fine thing for you to do. And it puts...it allows you to share what you know, share what you're worried about, but then not take on the responsibility of trying to figure out what the right dosage should be because that's not your job. [00:29:21]
CLIENT: Yeah, it's (pause)...I've considered doing it before but then I wasn't sure if I could but I guess I can.
THERAPIST: Yeah, the law of confidentiality is that his provider cannot divulge any of his private information to somebody else. It doesn't work the other way. Therapists can get information about anybody from anybody. We just need to be careful not to divulge information to others. But you don't have to maintain confidentiality for him, the therapist does.
(pause)
CLIENT: Do you get calls like that often?
THERAPIST: Sure!
CLIENT: And then like you'll take the information and...because also maybe I'm a biased source. Maybe what I'm saying isn't actually true.
THERAPIST: So if the reverse were to happen. Say he were to call me and say, "I'm really worried about this about Georgia." Would I then...I'd listen. I'd say, "Thank you for the information," and then I would talk to you about it and I would say, "Listen, your boyfriend, your mother, your father, you're whoever...your best friend called, whoever it was, and they shared this information with me." And personally my—this isn't a...therapists handle this differently. What I would say if he called would be that I won't keep a secret for him—or your best friend, whoever it was involved—because they're not my patient. So if they say, "I'm not going to share any information with you because I don't want Georgia to know that I called," that's well...I guess I'd let that go. Because my personal...I only feel comfortable if I'm allowed to then talk to my own client and say, "Listen, I got this information from so-and-so, this is what they said, and it worries me. What do you think?" Because you're right, the perspective might be different and I want to be able to hear it from both perspectives and then make a decision based on from what I know from my experience, what you share, what the other person shared. We kind of figure out where's... [00:31:24]
CLIENT: I mean, in this case it's not like I'm trying to actively...I'm just thinking maybe he should consider having (inaudible) because the other thing was I guess they did talk about preventative medicine, sort of how I take the Klonopin at night to lower my general anxiety level. And he was like, "Okay we should...maybe we'll see how you're doing in a month." So they did talk about that but I'm just like (pause)...and I guess a lot of the things happened earlier. But like two nights ago when he...I think I did finally get him to take an anti-anxiety drug and I didn't see it do that much.
THERAPIST: And you're feeling like you're doing a lot of work to manage his symptoms.
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: And that must be taking a toll on you. I know you came in here on Friday and you were feeling really pessimistic and really hopeless. You're dealing with your own worries and uncertainties and on top of that it sounds like you're dealing with a lot of his stuff. [00:32:30]
(pause)
CLIENT: So yeah I just (pause)...maybe I will. Or maybe I should wait and see if it happens again and then if it happens again I'll call.
THERAPIST: You can do that. I think...I'm bringing up these options for you as a way of figuring out...there's some stuff that you can't...there's some stressors that you can't get away from right now. You don't have control over the job stuff. You only have control over limited things. So I'm looking at what are some of the stress...what are some of the responsibilities and stressors maybe that you're taking on that can be given back to a more appropriate place. So medication issues are something that can go back to the psychiatrist. They don't need to rest on you. Ascertaining what level of risk he's at can go back to an emergency worker. That doesn't need to rest on you. Him controlling how he's expressing his anger, or frustration, or sadness is something that can rest with him, not on you. And that gives you more resources, more emotional capacity to deal with the things that you can't put back on someone else, your own stuff. [00:33:49]
CLIENT: But then with the whole...going back to the whole hospitalization thing, you know it's still unpleasant to watch when he's doing like banging his head really hard against a pillow, which I guess isn't going to hurt him but I can see that there. There it's like (pause) I feel like telling him that I can't watch him do this and threatening to call the hospital if he won't stop, is that just being manipulative because it's not like he's actually in danger and possibly abusing the medical system if I did call.
THERAPIST: Well for me, manipulation versus setting limits. So you can set clear limits about what you are willing to sit through. Manipulation is when you're doing something just to get him to stop and you don't really mean it. So threatening to call an ambulance if he doesn't stop but then not really meaning that, that's manipulation because then you're using this threat of the ambulance. He's probably not going to really hurt himself banging his head against a pillow. [00:35:05]
CLIENT: Sometimes it will be against the headboard.
THERAPIST: But you don't have to sit and watch. So you need to decide what your limits are. And you can express in a loving and supportive way, "It's concerning to me that you feel this way. It breaks my heart," whatever feels true for you. "It breaks my heart for me to see you this upset but I can't watch it." He's a grown up. He is not a child. You don't have to sit and watch. If you feel like you want someone to come in and stop him, then the ambulance is a way to do that. If you feel like he's safe but you don't want to watch him hurt himself this way then you don't have to. And part of that is...
CLIENT: Just go into a different room or something?
THERAPIST: You can.
CLIENT: And if he wants me to come back then he has to stop.
THERAPIST: Then he has to stop. If he wants you to be able to support him, if he wants hugs, if he wants someone to sit with him when he's sad, then he needs to not do that. You do not have to be subjected to watching violence toward himself. And if you feel like he's really at danger for doing serious harm, something that is not going to...then you can call. And you can say, "That's what my limit is." You need to figure out what your limits are. But because he's an adult, it's not your job to stop him from hitting his head. (pause) He's capable of doing that. [00:36:33]
CLIENT: Maybe. (pause) I mean I guess the question is...
THERAPIST: How does he stop?
CLIENT: I don't know. I guess...well I guess he is capable. But maybe in the heat of the moment he isn't until he eventually becomes capable. That's a possibility right? Like if you lose control of yourself and then eventually you gain control of yourself?
THERAPIST: Is he out of touch with reality? Is he aware of what he's doing?
CLIENT: He's aware of what he's doing.
THERAPIST: Then I think he can stop. I'm not there. I haven't assessed him in the moment. I'm making guesses based on other experiences. So I can't really know since I've never talked with him and I'm not there. But if you feel like he's very aware of what he's doing then he can learn to stop, would be my best guess. (pause) I can't really say definitively because of course I've not assessed him. But you can make your best guess of seeing what he's like in those moments. [00:37:39]
CLIENT: He does stuff actually...I just...I don't...
THERAPIST: It sounds really scary.
CLIENT: Maybe I should talk to him when he's not doing it and tell him it's really hard to see.
THERAPIST: Yeah I think the best time to have these conversations...having a conversation about limits, expectations should definitely be had when you're not in the heat of the moment because those are...I mean in the heat of the moment is a very emotionally high time and not a time where he can probably have these kinds of conversations. But if this is something that's happened more than once...first of all you figuring out what are your limits and then having a conversation with him about that when you're both calm, when you're both in a good place.
CLIENT: I'm just also afraid if I do try to have that conversation while we're calm I'll set him off and he'll be like, "Oh, I'm a horrible person," and whatever.
THERAPIST: That's possible. [00:38:38]
CLIENT: But I really have no control over that either.
THERAPIST: Right, you don't. You do not control these things. You can only control yourself.
CLIENT: Yeah, I guess I would still feel partially responsible there but I guess...yeah not really my fault.
THERAPIST: I know it's hard when things are good to bring up a hard conversation because you don't want to kind of risk a good time.
CLIENT: But it probably needs to be done and then I can just be like, "I told you this is what I'm going to do so here I am." 
THERAPIST: Here I am following through on it. That's right.
CLIENT: "I'll come back to the room when you stop hurting yourself." (pause) I probably...I guess I could even be like, "I'll check up on you in a couple of minutes," or something or tell him when I'm leaving. "I'm leaving the room right now unless you can stop hurting yourself right now." And if he stops hurting himself right now I won't leave and if he doesn't then I leave. [00:39:49]
(pause)
THERAPIST: I think that's a way of protecting you and also giving him back the responsibility to take care of himself, and the power to do that. You're empowering him to do that rather than reinforcing this idea that he can't take care of himself. It relieves some of the burden on you and gives him back that power.
(pause)
CLIENT: It's interesting where he also...when he can't take care of himself. Like when he forgets meds and stuff when I'm not around or whatever. I can't really do anything about that either but then I have to deal with the consequences of him being depressed or something if he hasn't taken his meds that day. I find out, "Oh, you haven't taken your meds." But I haven't found a good system to make him take his meds, especially because it's not like he wakes up at the same time every day so I've said like, "Okay, wake up at 9:00 or 10:00, take your meds." I mean, I don't wake up at the same time of day either, however (pause) I know that if I don't take my meds I will be very, very sad and also there's the birth control pill that I don't want to get my period. So that alone will be enough to get me to take my meds and I always know at night that I need to take my nighttime meds. So I guess I don't need a routine but I think he might. Theoretically he could set an alarm and be like okay, take your meds. If he woke up that day at 9:00, have it go off at 9:30. [00:41:25]
THERAPIST: It makes it harder.
CLIENT: It makes it harder because he's on such an (inaudible) schedule right now. (pause) If he stays up really late then he'll sleep in. (pause) I don't know what to do because I can't control it but then I have to deal with it.
THERAPIST: It impacts you. I'm getting the sense that a lot of your energy goes toward worrying about how he's doing and how to help him.
CLIENT: I don't know what to do. Maybe I should just spend less time around him or something but I don't want to do that either. (pause) (sigh) I mean, I guess if I would finally ever get a job then I could have something to do during the daytime and not be around.
THERAPIST: But you really see a lot of the ups and downs of the day because you are both home.
CLIENT: Yeah. And I do leave the house. I have my non-job at the historical society.
THERAPIST: Your volunteer position. [00:42:36]
CLIENT: Well my volunteer currently...short term paid, but mostly volunteer position and then my (pause) not very well paid, not in my field student job of (inaudible). So (pause) I spend a little bit of time. I'll be out a few hours in the middle of the day but I'll still wake up with him and I'll still spend the evening with him and see him in the evening when he hasn't taken his meds. And I'll say like, "Did you take your meds?" and he's like, "No." It hasn't happened that often but it did happen on Friday so (pause)...then when he was getting all upset before (inaudible) he realized it was because he hadn't taken his meds.
(pause)
So I don't know what to do about that (pause) other than just I guess deal with it when he doesn't take them. But should I not be reminding him in the morning, "You should take your meds"? [00:43:46]
THERAPIST: What's his response when you remind him?
CLIENT: (pause) Sometimes at first he'll be like, "Wait, can I have more hugs first," or something. Or, "Actually, I'm going to go back to sleep," and if he's going to go back to sleep for a little bit then I'll let him go back to sleep and not take them but if he's waking up he'll usually take them when I ask him to. (pause) And I think before he was dating me there probably were times where if he didn't have someone like that, I think probably a lot of days would forget his meds. Just that nobody else had to deal with the consequences of him forgetting his meds and he wasn't that depressed back then. 
THERAPIST: Does he brush his teeth when he wakes up in the morning? [00:44:39]
CLIENT: (pause) I think so. Like he'll go to the bathroom and stuff and eventually brush his teeth, I think. (pause) He also doesn't shower every morning. I think he brushes his teeth in the morning but I'm not sure. He might only brush his teeth at night.
THERAPIST: I was just thinking if there was something that he did regularly in the morning then he could tie the meds to that behavior. But if that's not something that's consistent, that's not going to help obviously.
CLIENT: Or having breakfast which he doesn't always have. (pause) So maybe tie it...he gets dressed in the morning but I don't know how to tie it with getting dressed. I guess because he has the ADD that makes him forget things more. And I just can't understand it because I don't have ADD, or at least as far as I know. I don't think I have ADD. [00:45:39]
THERAPIST: And the medication has been really helpful for you. You see a difference when you take your meds versus when you don't. That's a good reinforcement for taking them and he might—because he doesn't take them as regularly, because as you've witnessed you don't see them having as much of an effect for him, like the immediate relief from anxiety—he doesn't feel that in the same way maybe. So it's less (pause)...how he feels is less tied to the medication, making him less likely to take it. You notice a real difference (pause) and that makes you want to take them. (inaudible) that it's worth it to remember to take them.
CLIENT: (pause) That's the thing, antidepressants don't just kick in right away.
THERAPIST: Right, yeah, a little bit of consistency there before you get the benefit.
CLIENT: He's been taking them for a long time it's just (pause) every so often he'll forget. Yeah, so he doesn't worry...either maybe they...I guess in general they are. I guess maybe he just is less caring about self-preservation maybe? (pause) Yeah, I don't know what to do. [00:46:56]
THERAPIST: Well think about some of your options. Think about what you feel comfortable with in terms of what you are willing to take on, or what you are willing to keep taking on.
CLIENT: I don't mind reminding him in the morning it's just that there are a few times that I'm not there. (pause) Then I have no way of knowing.
THERAPIST: When he gets up or when to remind him.
CLIENT: Yeah.
(pause)
THERAPIST: Well I feel like a lot of our time today was focused on him instead of you.
(pause)
CLIENT: A lot of me is focused on him instead of me so I think it makes sense.
THERAPIST: Then that's an appropriate parallel.
CLIENT: It's not like there is anything in my life right now that I can even do anything about like I did the follow up on the thing for (inaudible) like I wrote her back and I was like, "Thank you for writing me a letter. Here's my resume if you do go through with getting an archivist," and she wrote me back and put like thank you for the resume and ["I have a feeling we'll go] (ph) forward." [00:48:01]
THERAPIST: But you did what you could. I'm glad you did. I'm glad you followed up on that. Good for you.
CLIENT: But now I'm back to, you know...
THERAPIST: Now you're back to looking.
CLIENT: Yeah. Or possibly (pause) making the decision to possibly...maybe I should...because if I was (inaudible) I would need more availability but I probably should wait until the holidays are over because they want me to come in for a full week and all the Mondays and Tuesdays, except for this week, for the next couple of weeks I'm still busy with the holidays. I wouldn't be able to come in so it would be after that and then I just (pause)...maybe I should say I don't want to be in (inaudible) anymore because...but then it's temp. If I got a real job I would stop and be like, "Hey guys I got a real job, here's my shifts. They're yours now." But if it's for like a six week thing or something like that. (pause) So I have no clue what to do there other than wait until after the holidays anyways because it's not like I can do anything over the holidays. [00:49:10]
THERAPIST: You feel a little bit limited with the dates.
CLIENT: Yeah.
(pause)
THERAPIST: Well it sounds like for now go back to looking and seeing if there's something worth applying to and crossing your fingers you hear back from (inaudible). 
CLIENT: Yeah, it's been two weeks now that I've not heard from the Libraries.
THERAPIST: Yeah it's been a while.
CLIENT: I'm just at this point I'm assuming I wasn't one of the top four candidates but I'm kind of annoyed that they said they'd tell me and they didn't.
THERAPIST: Yeah, it would be nice to get confirmation so you can either cross it off your list or know where you stand. I'm sorry you didn't hear back. (pause) Why don't we stop there for today? I did write up a bill for... [00:49:59]
END TRANSCRIPT
