Transcript of Audio File:
______________________________________________________________________________
BEGIN TRANSCRIPT:
THERAPIST: Sorry [I kept you] (ph) waiting.
CLIENT: No worries. I am so sleepy.
THERAPIST: Oh, yes?
CLIENT: Yes. I have trouble getting to sleep at night, so this has always been a problem.
THERAPIST: Yes.
CLIENT: And it's to the point where even taking Ambien, doesn't help much.
THERAPIST: I think you had mentioned...
CLIENT: Yes.
THERAPIST: ...(inaudible) that it wasn't helping.
CLIENT: But I still need to get up for work. (chuckles) So, right around 3:30, or so, I start feeling really, really sleepy. And, when I get home, I eat something, maybe watch some TV, and then I'm not sleepy anymore; then I'm up until ridiculous hours, trying to fall asleep.
THERAPIST: (inaudible)
CLIENT: Its (ph) really frustrating. (sighs)
THERAPIST: How little of sleep are you getting?
CLIENT: I'm usually getting five or six hours a night. [00:01:01] Which is better than nothing, certainly.
THERAPIST: Yes. (inaudible)
CLIENT: Yes. And, at my worst, it was much, much worse than that. At my worst, I was getting maybe two or three hours of sleep. So (inaudible)
THERAPIST: Yes. Right. (inaudible)
CLIENT: It feels almost luxurious in comparison but...
THERAPIST: Yes. Was it that bad, recently? Two or three hours?
CLIENT: No.
THERAPIST: Okay.
CLIENT: But, yes, it's really frustrating. And I'm finding myself completely unmotivated to learn stuff at work. And I don't know if that's related to the sleepiness or if that's something else that - I have this task they (ph) had assigned to me, and I've also spent the last week and a half with my mentor. So the last week and a half - teaching me how to use the (inaudible). There's a million moving parts and it's really hard to keep it all in mind. But he gave me this one task of very (inaudible) narrow shield of influence, (inaudible) the parts of the chip (ph) that he's asked me to look at. [00:02:04]
And, I don't know - I spent more time, today, just shooting the breeze on Twitter than I did, actually, figuring out how to do this task. And, I mean, I made some progress on it, but I could have made far more, if I had been more disciplined about not screwing around and just focused. And this inability to just focus and get going, is something that has plagued me since high school.
THERAPIST: Yes.
CLIENT: Before that, maybe, even - I'm not sure; at least since high school, let's put it that way. And it just is so frustrating. (sighs)
THERAPIST: Yes. I mean, this is one of the biggest ongoing issues, right (ph)? [00:03:03]
CLIENT: (pause [00:03:04] to 00:03:46)
THERAPIST: Well, what comes to mind about this?
CLIENT: I've been trying to get myself to the gym for work, the last week. I keep saying, "You know, today is the day, after work, when Ill stop by the gym on the way home." [00:04:00] But (sighs) by the end of the day, I am so sleepy, and so demoralized for not having been more focused and disciplined at work, that I just want to go home. And, once I am home, cooking anything is way too much work.
So, usually, what I do is I will eat chocolate and drink wine until Dave (ph) gets home. And he'll be like, "(inaudible), you haven't eaten anything this evening except chocolate and wine. That's not healthy." And I'll be like, "I'm depressed." And he'll order Thai food, or something. So that's really not a healthy habit. And it's really frustrating, especially because before full-time grad school, at (ph) my last day job, I actually was in a pretty good rhythm of going to the gym three or four days, after work.
THERAPIST: Right.
CLIENT: And stopping at the grocery store. And, even if I didn't cook from scratch, at least getting one of those marinated chicken and vegetable dishes that you pop in the oven for 20 minutes or - [00:05:04] like real food, even if it was partially prefabricated - like deli, sort of - you know what I mean.
THERAPIST: Right. Yes.
CLIENT: Yes, I had a [farm share] (ph), and was cooking and eating reasonably healthy and, now, I'm just sitting there with my chocolate bar. And it's kind of disgusting and repulsive.
THERAPIST: How long is it before Dave (ph) gets home? I mean, how big (ph) is -
CLIENT: Depending on whether he's going to yoga or not, anywhere from one hour to two hours. (pause)
THERAPIST: And, are we talking about like - it doesn't sound like binging (ph) amounts of chocolate and wine. It just sounds like some chocolate and wine. Is that right?
CLIENT: Yes. But -
THERAPIST: I'm not saying that's good, that's how you want it to be...
CLIENT: Sure.
THERAPIST: I'm just trying to understand the nature - [00:06:00]
CLIENT: Yes, yes. No, not like alcoholic binging; like a glass or two but -
THERAPIST: (inaudible)
CLIENT: Drinking and having sugar, of any form, on an empty stomach is, usually, not terribly healthy and not good for my (inaudible) - physiologically, I react badly to having sugar on an empty stomach so -
THERAPIST: Oh.
CLIENT: (sighs) (pause to [00:06:27] to 00:07:02) I mean, I guess, part of me is saying, "Well, you had this healthy lifestyle and blah, blah, blah," - before I went into therapy, and maybe therapy has made things worse. And that's, kind of, the devil on my shoulder kind of voice, because yes, I was exercising and eating better but my personal life was in far more disarray, and I was far more emotionally unhappy, and far, far, far less effective at work. So I don't know - [how can I fit] (ph) all the pieces together and...
THERAPIST: Yes. Sure.
CLIENT: ...have everything be going well. (inaudible) (chuckles)
THERAPIST: That sounds like a nice idea. (chuckles) (inaudible) In that vein, though, do you have any further thought about therapy making things worse? Or how it would be? Or [what's going] (ph) to be going on there? [00:08:05]
CLIENT: I don't think that's, actually, a true thought; I think that's the part of me that just wants to -
THERAPIST: Bail (ph).
CLIENT: (inaudible) bail (ph) on everything, with (ph) saying that. I mean, part of the internal monologue that goes on when I'm - you know, "this is the turn I have to make if I want to go to the gym," is, "what's the point of going to the gym? You're a lard ass. You've always been a lard ass, even before going to the gym, or fat. And that's a lot of effort. And blah, blah, blah." And that voice is really powerful in the moment, especially when I'm tired and already down on myself for not being focused and disciplined at work.
THERAPIST: Yes.
CLIENT: (sighs) Yes.
THERAPIST: Yes.
CLIENT: I could (ph) recite to myself a list of all the health benefits of regular exercise...
THERAPIST: Right. [00:09:02]
CLIENT: ...blah, blah, blah; lowered heart rate, increased happiness, increased metabolism, blah, blah, blah.
THERAPIST: Right.
CLIENT: But - (pause [00:09:10] to 00:09:37)
THERAPIST: [There was something I could say - ] (ph) - that I was thinking I could say, about what you said. (inaudible) I'm just not sure any of them (ph) are helpful. Like, for example, it strikes me that things have sort of reversed, where you feel distracted at work, sleepy, or lacking motivation but, when it's time to rest or relax at home and head towards bed, you feel, it sounds like, activated (ph) and anxious and unable to let go of things. [00:10:10] [You would,] (ph) sort of...
CLIENT: Yes.
THERAPIST: ...want it the other way around, I would think. Or, you know, the chocolate and wine and that eating (ph), (inaudible) both like a way of trying to get a vacation, or a break, from the voice you were referring to, that tyrannical and critical - on the way - that you hear on the way home from work. (inaudible) other times, but...
CLIENT: Right.
THERAPIST: ...(inaudible) the way home. I can imagine that it's both a (inaudible) break from that and something you also know is going to make you feel bad, too. So it's like self-flagellation and vacation, at the same time. [00:11:01]
CLIENT: Right.
THERAPIST: And, (pause [00:11:05] to 00:11:23) I guess, I don't know. It occurs to me that, maybe, therapy can feel like both those things as well, in that - I mean, I certainly hope that there are times when you feel supported or like things aren't as bad, or you aren't as bad, more specifically, as you make yourself out to be, in a way that feels good. [00:12:01] Though, also, I would imagine that talking about things that hurt and are painful, or times when you feel critical of yourself, or getting upset, or wanting help, or things like that - which I know is much less than it used to be, but I would imagine (inaudible), can be quite painful about (ph) therapy.
CLIENT: Yes.
THERAPIST: So (pause) [I guess the other thing] (ph) probably, because I (inaudible) (chuckles) - I'm listening and thinking about what you're saying, but I'm yet sure what to say about it, or how to put it together, such that I think it would be helpful or [be made] (ph) better (inaudible) what's going on, if (ph) that makes sense. [00:13:14]
CLIENT: (pause [00:13:15] to 00:13:56)
THERAPIST: I guess (pause) - I don't know. [00:14:10] One thing that does occur to me is, maybe one thing you're often waiting for or wanting, in here, which I can understand, is for me to say something that helps put me between you and this really, quite tyrannical, critical voice that you have, that would (inaudible) help protect you from it, or give you [some distance] (ph) from it, or reassure you that isn't (ph) true, because it's so pervasive (ph) and so painful. [00:15:10] And so, it shuts you down so much. What do you think?
CLIENT: I think that's not wrong. (chuckles)
THERAPIST: (chuckles)
CLIENT: (pause) I'm also just having a hard time staying focused on the conversation, right now.
THERAPIST: Do you think it's [the subject] (ph) or being tired, or some combination?
CLIENT: Probably some combination.
THERAPIST: Yes. [00:16:00] (pause) Yes, maybe you're getting beat up, or in fear of getting beat up this way, most of the time. And, when you're at work, [it's to] (ph) do with usually the quality of your work or, sometimes, [depending on the] (ph) context, from (ph) the person (inaudible) - Like, at the moment, I think it's probably more in terms of your expectations and frustrations with yourself. And, then at home, it's like, I would guess, more along the lines of, "How the hell can you just feel like you deserve to relax?" [00:17:09]
CLIENT: Right.
THERAPIST: Or let yourself think you need to eat. (ph) And (pause) -
CLIENT: I don't get (ph) - I guess, every time there's a point where a normal person would say, "Okay, I have earned a break. I get to relax right now." There's a part of me that says, "But you've been relaxing all day. I mean, you took breaks for Twitter, like every 20 minutes, all day long. Wasn't that relaxing enough?" And (sighs) - or like, "On your day off, you didn't clean the house or work on personal projects, or do anything except watch the entire second season of [Lost Girl] (ph) in one day. Wasn't that relaxing enough?"
And so, I don't know. So, by evening time, there's that voice that's saying, "You shouldn't relax. You should be doing useful stuff because you've been goofing off all day and wasn't that relaxing enough?" But I'm, also, just so exhausted, both from fighting (ph) myself and from the actual shit that I managed to get done; so that it's impossible to do anything useful. And I realize my framing it as useful versus non-useful, is also problematic. But (pause) -
THERAPIST: Yes. I guess I would imagine, to answer the question "wasn't that relaxing enough?", the answer is probably no. I may (ph) be wrong but, I would imagine that when you're doing the things that feel like distractions, or not what you should be doing, (inaudible) - [00:19:05]
CLIENT: Then why am I wasting my time on them? (chuckles) And I'm so frustrated with myself. I mean, before Twitter it was this stupid online game called "Glitch" (ph), and before that it was ["Live Journal"] (ph), and before that was this other, stupid online game, ["Paint by Numbers Pictures"] (ph), and before that it was something else. And (pause) they're not even the same kind of distractions, right? Like, at various points in the past, I'd say the thing I use to describe myself changes, maybe, every six to eight months; I get bored with whatever it is that I'm using to distract myself, and move over to something else. [00:20:06]
Like it's not even consistently interacting with friends, social media or, consistently, computer games; it's just whatever random-ass thing happens to grab my attention. (sighs) I don't know. It's really hard for me to come up with workarounds for that, when it's not the same kind of thing. Does that make sense?
THERAPIST: Like, a strategy that might work for dealing with one way that you distract yourself, wouldn't work for the next?
CLIENT: Right. (pause [00:20:36] to 00:21:02) And, maybe, trying to work around something (ph) is completely the wrong approach. But -
THERAPIST: Well, I think you, kind of, started rolling there. Like you, kind of, started in on yourself, just there, just now. And, so, I'm trying to think about how come, what set that off? (inaudible) I think you just, sort of, had a little tirade; "It's not even the same goddamn thing. What the hell am I doing? I do this one, then I do that one, then I do this other one. I'm so screwed up. I can't come up with a strategy because I keep changing things and, maybe, strategizing (inaudible) isn't (ph) even the way to go." [00:22:19] It sounded - not in a, sort of, huge way but,...
CLIENT: Right. Right.
THERAPIST: ...nonetheless, like a tirade. And (pause [00:22:35] to 00:23:33) - Yes, I guess I'm wondering about what might have set it off, you know?
CLIENT: (pause [00:23:38] to 00:24:09) I'm just so frustrated with myself because this whole being distracted and not being disciplined, while paying attention to my work thing - I can see where it's going to go; it's going to go down the road of - my boss is getting increasingly frustrated with my inability to deliver on time and my inability to meet deadlines. And it's going to end up spiraling in avoiding work that's difficult, because I know I can't get it done on time. And, thus, being more distracted. And, thus, pushing the deadlines out more.
And the exact same thing that has happened at every job or academic situation I've ever had. And its miserable and I know it will be miserable. And I know how it happens. [00:25:00] And I know I have the capability, in terms of...
THERAPIST: Right.
CLIENT: ...just intellectual whatever, to get the work done. So it's just - it's so frustrating that I don't understand why I'm doing this to myself.
THERAPIST: Sure. And (ph) I understand.
CLIENT: Also, I am so sleepy right now. I promised myself I would go to the gym tonight but I just want to go home and sleep. (sighs) (pause [00:25:47] to 00:26:30)
THERAPIST: But I wonder (ph) - (pause [00:26:32] to 00:26:56) I wonder if part of the reason you do the tirades (ph) here, like just now - [00:27:13] I wonder if there's, really, like a two-fold (ph) reason there. One of which is because its, in a certain way, almost protective; it pre-empts something that could go bad between you and I. Like, you know, "I'm supportive" or "I'm nice" or "We [connect around] (ph) something." Like, "Maybe that's dangerous." [00:28:01] You have more to lose, or you'd be in a more vulnerable position. And, (pause) if you're beating up on yourself, it creates some distance in a way, or (inaudible) -
CLIENT: I don't think it's that deep.
THERAPIST: (chuckles) Okay.
CLIENT: I really don't. I - you keep encouraging me...
THERAPIST: Yes.
CLIENT: ...to just say what's on my mind. And, well, 90 percent of the time, whether I'm here or not, what's on my mind is a self-hating tirade. [00:29:06] So, I think, its - that's what happens when I am free-associating (ph).
THERAPIST: Right. I, absolutely, have encouraged you many times, and will continue to, I guess. But say what's on your mind. So you're (ph) absolutely right about that conclusion. (chuckles)
CLIENT: (chuckles)
THERAPIST: And I take your point, that 90 percent of the time you'd (ph) be beating up on yourself in that way, whether you were here or sitting in your car, sitting in your office, watching TV. [00:30:00] I completely may have the wrong idea about it, but I guess, I do maintain that I think there is some depth, of some kind, and (ph) something going on. We may find I'm wrong; I'm open to that possibility. But I'm still suspecting I'm not. (chuckles)
CLIENT: (chuckles)
THERAPIST: And (pause) I don't believe, so much, in psychological inertia (ph). [00:31:08] I mean, there are certain cases where, I think, that's the (ph) most important mechanism, but relatively few.
CLIENT: What's psychological inertia (ph)?
THERAPIST: Like if somebody has an addiction or if - like a drug addiction, or somebody has a fairly (ph) severe OCD, or with certain, severe phobias, there is a kind of, almost, physiological feeling, sticking (ph) us to that page (ph), where - you know, quite independent of the context, I guess, is what I mean. [00:32:01] There's a, sort of, real trajectory to the behavior, like suddenly (inaudible) OCD. But, in one context, another context, another context, and this person or that person, at this time of day or that time of day. The obsessions and compulsions are like (inaudible) drug addiction (inaudible) obvious. But, sure, maybe taking a heroin addict out of their familiar environment can help a little bit but - relative to what the (inaudible) to do, probably not a lot. In those cases, the physical and psychological context matters, but its warped (ph) by the, kind of, what I'm calling "psychological inertia", like the strength [in a] (ph) habit, per se. [00:33:05]
CLIENT: Right.
THERAPIST: That's, really, what I mean, I guess, as I continue to talk about it. Like the, sort of, strength of the habit, itself. But I don't think that's, usually, a dominant feature [of this] (ph) thing. I guess, for example, with you, it does one thing to you when you're at work, and something else when you're at home, in the evening. Those, maybe, relate to the same tendency to want (ph) to be beating yourself up, but it is operating in different ways (ph). [00:34:04]
CLIENT: Right. Okay. (pause [00:34:07] to 00:34:45)
THERAPIST: So, yes, I probably, at least for the moment, don't (pause) - [00:35:03] and, in fact (ph), what you say is right, in a sense that I'm not seeing (ph) to what's going on in the right way, now. But, I guess, I also suspect that there is something more going on than this just being such an ingrained habit, that it's just going (ph) to happen, kind of irrespective of other psychological factors and (ph) relation to context. (pause [00:35:32] to 00:36:05) But you may be right, it may not be that deep. (chuckles)
CLIENT: (chuckles)
THERAPIST: There (ph) may be something going on [but - yes.] (ph) (pause [00:36:12] to 00:37:03) [And, I think, as] (ph) another factor, is it seems to be different (ph) things, at different times, with work. In grad school, (inaudible) - we were talking about it (inaudible) working, seemed to - seemed to, I think, [feel, if you] (ph) think about it (inaudible) you didn't see the pattern of having felt that way a lot. But you seem to feel it more, due to the pointlessness of the work...
CLIENT: Right.
THERAPIST: ...and your anger at your advisor.
CLIENT: Right.
THERAPIST: So (ph) your frustration has (ph) been directed that way, whereas now, it seems more directed - not that it was, entirely, not directed this way before, but that its, relatively, more directed at your own...
CLIENT: Right.
THERAPIST: ...lousiness. (ph)
CLIENT: I don't know what I'm doing. [00:38:00] There is all of this vocabulary that my mentor keeps throwing around, that I don't know. And (sighs) there is a part of me that says I'm completely unqualified for this job. But all of my friends who are, actually, also, technical people and engineers, tell me that that's wrong; it's just [imposter syndrome] (ph) speaking. But there is a tiny bit of truth, in the sense that I have very little course background in the areas of this job functions. And (ph) my course background is, kind of, similar - closely related, but not in the same field.
And, I mean, I guess, there is quite a bit of chauvinism in the field I trained in, that - you know, "analog engineers are smarter than digital engineers. And analog people can learn digital stuff on the fly. Ha ha, we're so smart and we're better than you people."
THERAPIST: Right.
CLIENT: (chuckles) Actually, getting my hands dirty and getting into it, there's (inaudible) [CAD drive, from first principals] (ph). [00:39:00] But there's also something to be said with having familiarity with the abstractions (ph) and -
THERAPIST: Sure.
CLIENT: Right? I mean -
THERAPIST: Right, [I would follow] (ph) like, a lot of it (ph) may not be super, conceptually, difficult.
CLIENT: Right.
THERAPIST: But, if there's a ton of material being thrown at you...
CLIENT: Yes.
THERAPIST: ...like some familiarity (ph) (chuckles)...
CLIENT: Right.
THERAPIST: ...helps you digest it faster.
CLIENT: Right. Like, I mean - sure, if you had to, you could solve a differential equation by starting from number theory, and deriving everything.
THERAPIST: Yes.
CLIENT: It would take you five days.
THERAPIST: Right.
CLIENT: And, if you just had the forms (ph) of common whatever, memorized - I don't...
THERAPIST: Yes.
CLIENT: ...actually, remember (inaudible) 10 years ago.
THERAPIST: [Me either] (ph). Yes.
CLIENT: And I haven't used them (ph) since. But you try and -
(Crosstalk)
THERAPIST: Yes. Yes.
CLIENT: (sighs)
THERAPIST: Right.
CLIENT: And it's just (sighs) - I don't know. [00:40:00] So, yes, I get to a point, in the (ph) trying to figure out a (ph) problem; this is what happened today, repeatedly. I got to a point, trying to figure out what I was doing. And the problem was, take the subcomponents and look at the reports on timing and power (ph) and find the latches (ph) that can be resized. And so, there was a lot of stuff there.
You have to know where the timing and power (ph) reports are, know how to use the tool to view the power reports, know how to use a different tool to view the timing reports, know how to interpret the data, once you've gotten the tool to extract the data in human readable form, from the binary (ph) database. [So now you've got] (ph) human readable form, but you still need to interpret what it actually means.
THERAPIST: Yes. Yes.
CLIENT: You can (ph) take that and look at the schematic and say, "Okay, which of these components?" And then, there's the judgment call, "Can I change this component without screwing something up over here?" And (sighs), at each point in that process, I would make a mistake or get garbage output on my screen or not know where to look, and get frustrated, and decide I was stupid. [00:41:10] And, instead of pushing through, go hop on Twitter and see what people were saying about - I don't know - [Erica Badu or whatever] (ph). I just - (pause)
THERAPIST: It sounds like you were (ph) trying to do something that does have a lot of moving parts, and is the sort of thing that, once you can do it and have been doing it for a while, you may forget how much there was to learn to be able to do it.
CLIENT: Right. Right, because any one piece of this, like interpreting the power (ph) reports - [00:42:01] well, okay, there's (ph) six columns of data and, in theory, I know what each of those columns mean, or at the very least...
THERAPIST: Yes.
CLIENT: ...can look at the four-letter acronym of each column heading and look it up in the table, to tell me what it actually means.
THERAPIST: Right. Right.
CLIENT: Then, interpreting that, there's a little bit of finesse that - I mean -
THERAPIST: Yes. (ph)
CLIENT: It's the (ph) number of (inaudible) goal is to make that number smaller. (ph) No individual piece of it is that hard, but keeping track of 1,000 different pieces...
THERAPIST: Sure.
CLIENT: And there (ph) are interdependencies (ph). And every time I get to a point where I don't, immediately, know the answer, I get frustrated and want to quit. And, that's, on another level, very frustrating for me, that I get frustrated so easily. (chuckles)
THERAPIST: (chuckles) Sure.
CLIENT: Maybe I shouldn't be frustrated at myself as easily as I am frustrated at (ph) work. Maybe that's part of the problem, of getting frustrated too easily. (chuckles) [00:43:01]
THERAPIST: Sure, of course. I would, also, imagine - I mean, this is a - (inaudible) this is a new job.
CLIENT: Yes.
THERAPIST: This is, probably, one of the first things you've been asked to do.
CLIENT: Yes.
THERAPIST: You want to do it well. You're really worried, given how things have gone at past jobs, that...
CLIENT: Yes.
THERAPIST: ...this is going to go south.
CLIENT: Yes. (ph)
THERAPIST: And here you are, being asked to perform, one of the first times through. There's all the history, there's just the (ph) worry about performance, that would be, probably, for most people at a new job, there's an inherent (ph) complexity with (ph) what you're doing. So (ph) you're frustrated with yourself? Yes, I mean, I guess, its - [00:44:01] [as we begin to unpack it] (ph), it doesn't sound surprising that it would be hard to stay with the work.
CLIENT: Right.
THERAPIST: There's so much loaded (ph) into it. [I really think it's crazy that it's so much.] (ph)
CLIENT: Right. [And so] (ph) the less that I'm able to stay with it and push through the frustration, the more likely it becomes that everything will go south. And [that would] (ph) be my worst nightmare situation.
THERAPIST: Right, which is, just, a really unfortunate consequence of the way things work. Its (ph) not, I don't think, any kind of way to motivate yourself to be different about it.
CLIENT: Then, how do I motivate myself to be different about it?
THERAPIST: Oh, I think you're - I mean, like first (ph) -
CLIENT: Or should I?
THERAPIST: I think you're plenty motivated to be different about it. I don't think you need any more motivation. it's a little bit like (pause) - [00:45:00]
CLIENT: But, if I am motivated to be different about it, then why am I not different about it? (chuckles)
THERAPIST: I think, where I'm going with this, is you need more patience and more ease with yourself around this, not more motivation. You need a, "It's okay if I try to take it a little easier here or let myself take a deep breath or not feel like such a loser for 75 minutes, or however many minutes, doing something else. That's all, still, okay. I'm dealing with quite a lot here, and these things are efforts. I'm trying to make something [that is] (ph) easier."
CLIENT: Right. I'm just afraid that I'll let that turn into an excuse to just never get back to work (inaudible) -
THERAPIST: Don't worry about it. I mean, (inaudible) [00:46:00] But you're not a little kid. But I think the way this reacts, with this much emotionally at stake internally, can have some of the qualities of how a kid reacts. Like when [you've got a kid, in my analogy] (ph) - like, you've got a four and half year old interviewing for some competitive kindergarten. There was an article, a few years ago, about how private (ph) kindergartens - the admissions for kindergartens for private - like the private schools around here, is ridiculously competitive.
And a five year old really wants to do well, she goes in, is getting ready for their day - they do day-long interviews because they feel like the kids can take it for a half an hour, an hour, but if you have a kid all day - its not like they [can grill the kid all day] (ph) -
CLIENT: Five year olds - Oh. (ph)
THERAPIST: But they have them spend the whole day at school, right? (ph) And so, [the five year old is] (ph) nervous, wants to do well, (inaudible) - telling the kid how much is riding on this, and how important it is, and how much they really have to do their very best, if they're already nervous about it, is (ph) only counterproductive. [00:47:07] Tell the kid, "Its (ph) fine." You love them anyway. They have a lot to be proud of. Just do their best. It will be okay. Much more the way to go.
I mean, I think, inherently, (ph) the kid is already anxious and stressed out and its already a difficult task. Keeping more pressure on them isn't going to motivate them in any useful way; it's going to freak them out. And, I think - (inaudible)
CLIENT: [You know what] (ph) - I see the analogy in (inaudible) -
THERAPIST: I'm sure you do, yes. (chuckles) I'm, probably, (ph) not saying anything you hadn't thought of. But (inaudible) true. We should stop for now.
CLIENT: (inaudible)
THERAPIST: (inaudible)
CLIENT: I'm out of town tomorrow.
THERAPIST: Oh, that's right. You did tell me. I'm sorry. (inaudible)
CLIENT: So I'll see you next Thursday. Thank you. [00:48:01]
THERAPIST: No problem.
END TRANSCRIPT
