<font size="4"><b>8: More Drugs and More Clinical Evidence</b></font>

While Reserpine was daily demonstrating
even to the most die-hard skeptics
its right to a pre-eminent place in the
armamentarium of both the hospital and the private psychiatrist,
an even more remarkable drug was having trouble gaining entry
into this country.


Chlorpromazine was first discovered by basic scientists in the
Rhone-Poulenc Laboratories in France early in 1951. They were
actually hunting for a new kind of antihistamine which wouldn't
induce so much drowsiness in patients. One day they mixed up a
chemical compound  R.P. 4560  which acted strangely on a
group of test animals. Given the new compound in large amounts,
the animals quickly went to sleep. But the drug differed from
the ordinary run of sedatives in that it did not "slug" the dogs
they could be easily aroused for feeding or other purposes.


Further animal experiments were then run with the new
compound in other chemical laboratories. Madame Courvoisier and
her associates reported late in 1951 that the new drug, used on experimental
rats, completely calmed their anxieties during conditioned
reflex experiments. Other experiments, reported in the French

[p. <i>107</i>]

On January 26, 1952, Dr. Henri Laborit reported the successful
use of Chlorpromazine on the common nauseas of pregnancy.
He noted that it not only controlled physical disturbances in
expectant mothers but had a remarkable effect in practically
eliminating their anxieties and apprehensions about the coming
event.


In the summer of 1952, a French psychiatrist, Dr. Jean Delay,
and his colleagues reported in a number of issues of authoritative
medical publications on its successful use in treating a wide
variety of mental illnesses. Of the first thirty-eight patients on
whom they tried it, all but three showed remarkable improvement.


In the next year and a half, European medical journals were
filled with enthusiastic clinical reports on the effectiveness of
Chlorpromazine. In addition to scores of articles in French medical
journals, there were numerous reports of investigations in Italy,
Austria, Germany, Switzerland, and England. There were strong
editorials in such distinguished British medical publications as
the <i>Lancet and The British Medical Journal</i>.


As early as 1952 American physicians were being supplied with
bibliographies of the European literature and translations of the
more important studies.


In May, 1953, there came to my desk a translation of an
article by Drs. J. Sigwald and D. Bouttier which had appeared
in a recent issue of the French <i>Annals of Medicine</i>. It was a
superb description of French experience with the drug since 1951.
In addition to a summary of the literature, the authors detailed, with
Gallic meticulousness, the case histories of sixty-six patients on
whom the drugs had been used. They reported the successes
and they reported the failures. Of the forty-eight patients with
psychiatric disabilities, most of whom had been treated on an
ambulatory basis, they noted:


"A study based on the treatment of forty-eight cases of practical,
everyday psychiatry shows that R.P. 4560Chlorpromazineis a
drug which has a very good action, superior to other therapeutic
agents, on anxiety states, depression, obsessions, cenesthopathias,
serious forms of psychasthenia, and psychic hyperexcitability.
Favorable results have been obtained in chronic interpretive psychoses.

[p. <i>108</i>]

The French authors concluded their twenty-nine-page paper
with a critique of the metabolic action of the drug which has not
been excelled in any of the papers that have appeared in America
and Canada since then, even though such brilliant investigators as
Drs. Heinz Lehmann, Harold Himwich, Frank Ayd, Jr., Vernon
Kinross-Wright, and others had the advantage of much subsequent
experience before publishing their findings on the possible mode of
action of the drug.


"Experimentation on rats shows that Chlorpromazine has the
property of deconditioning an animal in which a conditioned
reflex has previously been established," the French authors wrote
early in 1953. "This experiment enables an understanding of the
mode of action of this compound. By analogy, one can suppose
that in pathology it creates a disconnection between the excitations
originating from outside the bodyor developed within itand
conscious perception. There is produced, according to the expression
of Laborit, a synaptic interception between cortical processes
and the diencephalon, which permits a deconditioning. It acts
in this way on the obsessions, cenesthesias, pains, and also on
thymic dysfunction. One understands by this hypothesis its
seemingly so complex action, in particular the property of acting on
anxiety and melancholic depression, or on hyperexcitability and
hypomania or mania....


"The therapeutic application of Chlorpromazine shows that
its neuroplegic action, so useful in the treatment of shock and
in the application of therapeutic hibernation, is not its only value.
Its activity on the higher nerve structures is also very important.
One speaks of functional lobotomy; the expression is perhaps
unsuitable because it does not seem that the personality of the
patients treated is affected, even temporarily, as it can be in
lobotomy, but often the result suggests such a comparison."


As in the instance of Dr. Nathan Kline's pioneer paper on
Reserpine, I called the Sigwald-Bouttier paper to the attention of

[p. <i>109</i>]

However, there were a number of adventurous spirits still alive
and kicking in this great land of ours. Like Dr. Kline, they were
pretty fed up with the feeble armamentarium of the latter-day
psychiatrist. When the Smith, Kline, and French Laboratories
imported a shipment of Chlorpromazine, they jumped at the
opportunity of testing it in clinical trials.


The first North American report of the remarkable therapeutic
properties of the new drug came from Canada. In the February,
1954, issue of the <i>Archives of Neurology and Psychiatry</i>, Dr.
Heinz Lehmann of the Verdun Protestant Hospital in Montreal
reported on the success of the drug in the treatment of seventy-one
psychotic patients.


"We are particularly impressed," Dr. Lehmann reported, "with
the favorable results in our manic-depressive patients in a chronic
manic state, all of whom had been continuously manic or hypomanic
for more than a year and had previously failed to respond to
standard therapeutic procedures or had had only brief remissions.
In some of these long-standing cases recovery with Chlorpromazine
may not be immediate, the improvement gradually progressing
for a month or two after termination of therapy. In acute manic
states Chlorpromazine therapy usually leads to recovery in a
shorter time than is required with other, established treatment
procedures. It is generally known that the rapid remissions that
follow electroshock therapy often are short-lived, while relapses
following Chlorpromazine therapy are not frequent....


"One manic patient stated after her recovery that with the
drug she soon lost the feeling: I had to live my whole life in
one day. Another patient suffering from long-standing anxiety
described thus the effect of small doses of Chlorpromazine on her
feelings: It was like a chairman taking control of a meeting
where everybody previously had been shouting at once. Although

[p. <i>110</i>]

A few months went by, and then in May the American medical
and technical journals burst forth with a rash of papers substantiating
the clinical claims which had been advanced two and
three years previously by European scientists.


The May 1, 1954, issue of <i>The Journal of the American Medical
Association</i> carried a remarkably complete paper by the distinguished
neuropathologist Dr. N. W. Winkelman on the use of Chlorpromazine
on a wide variety of mental illnesses. Dr. Winkelman tried
the new compound on a roster of 142 cases: patients suffering from
anxieties and tensions, patients who had endured obsessions and
phobias for years, seniles, epileptics, etc. He found the drug
particularly effective in two areas: obsessions and senile agitations.
In a matter of a few short weeks, the drug cleared up phobias and
obsessions in a number of patients who had been subject, over
a period of years, to every form of treatment from intensive
psychotherapy to frontal lobotomy. The drug was also used on
twenty-seven senile patients who exhibited continual agitation,
severe anxiety, and belligerence. Of the group, twenty-one were
relieved of their agitation after a two-month course of treatment
with the drug.


In his summation of the clinical experiment, Dr. Winkelman
pointed up the incredibly wide therapeutic spectrum of the drug:


"Chlorpromazine is especially remarkable in that it can greatly
reduce severe anxiety, suppress the intensity of phobias and
obsessions, reverse or modify paranoid psychosis, quiet manic or
extremely agitated patients, and can change the hostile, belligerent,
agitated, senile patient into a quiet, easily managed patient."


Just about the time doctors all over the country were picking up
their AMA <i>Journals</i> and reading of the work of Dr. Winkelman,
the 1954 convention of the American Psychiatric Association
heard a remarkable report on Chlorpromazine from Dr. Vernon
Kinross-Wright of Houston, Texas. Dr. Kinross-Wright, an English-trained
psychiatrist who had come to the United States only a few
years before, gave his colleagues the first of what were to become a

[p. <i>111</i>]

Dr. Kinross-Wright reported on use of the drug on ninety-five
patients in a general hospital affiliated with the Baylor University
College of Medicine. The majority of the group were suffering
from mania and were unselected admissions to the psychiatric
service of the hospital. Of the ninety-five, thirty-two were completely
freed of their symptoms, while another thirty-five were in the
"much improved" category. Only nine of the patients treated
with the drug failed to show any improvement.


In that same productive month of May, two independent reports
appeared in the medical literature on the effectiveness of Chlorpromazine
in treating alcoholics, particularly acute cases with delirium
tremens. Dr. James F. Cummins and Dale G. Friend of Peter
Bent Brigham Hospital in Boston reported in <i>The American
Journal of the Medical Sciences</i> that they had been using Antabuse
to aid in cutting alcoholics off the liquor. However, unless the
patient was kept free of alcohol for at least six days prior to the
administration of Antabuse, a severe, nauseating reaction set in.
Many patients could not stand this withdrawal period; they shook
so badly and were so agitated that they had to be taken off
the therapy. Having tried countless remedies, Drs. Cummins
and Friend took a "flyer" on Chlorpromazine, having little real
hope that it would bring results. To their gratified surprise, it
worked wonders. It calmed the patients down, reduced their
craving for liquor, and got them over the dreaded withdrawal
period in miraculous fashion.


Almost simultaneously, there appeared in <i>The Medical Annals of
the District of Columbia</i> corroborative evidence of the effectiveness
of Chlorpromazine in the treatment of alcoholism. Dr. Joseph
Fazekas and his colleagues at the District of Columbia General
Hospital reported on its use with sixty-four patients, twenty-one
with delirium tremens and the remainder with severe psychomotor
agitation.


"Many of our patients were chronic alcoholics," the Washington
doctors wrote, "and their reaction to the drug may be of interest,
since most of them have previously received either barbiturates,
paraldehyde, or both. The impressions of the patients were very
favorable, and probably most important was the comment that you

[p. <i>112</i>]

A few months later, in the October issue of <i>Postgraduate Medicine</i>,
Dr. Kinross-Wright added important clinical evidence of the
effectiveness of the drug in the various deliriums.


"The deliriums, or toxic confusional psychoses, respond rapidly to
the drug," he noted. "A few 50 mg. injections usually suffice to clear
confusion, hyperactivity, and hallucinations. Further, the systemic
toxicity characteristic of these states is quickly alleviated, too.
Whether the confusion is associated with senility, a brain lesion,
fever, or chemical poisons is immaterial. Alcoholic delirium tremens
is very satisfactorily treated by this means. Two alcoholic patients
I had treated for delirium by this means, when brought into the
emergency room during subsequent attacks, surprised the intern by
demanding Chlorpromazine. Unhappily, he dismissed their requests
as hallucinations!"


In that same paper, Dr. Kinross-Wright reported his first observations
on the use of the drug with schizophrenics.


"Schizophrenia, the most crippling and chronic of mental disorders,
is the greatest challenge to psychiatric methods of treatment,"
he wrote. "About one-half of all schizophrenic patients were not
supstantially benefited by any combination of treatments hitherto
available. In one series of thirty schizophrenic patients I reported,
the situation two months after the conclusion of treatment was as
follows: eight were at home and symptom-free; thirteen were much
improved, with most of them living at home; five were somewhat
improved, and four were no better. With so small a number of
patients, conclusions must be limited. The results are highly provocative,
however. It should be noted here that most patients on Chlorpromazine
are more accessible to psychotherapy; indeed, patients
often discuss their deep-seated emotional problems spontaneously."


In the early months of 1955, as some of the bigger state mental
hospitals began to use the drug, the evidence began to flood the
medical journals and the scientific meetings.


In an article in the April 9 issue of <i>The Journal of the American
Medical Association</i> and in a subsequent paper of broader scope

[p. <i>113</i>]

"Chronic psychotic illness presents the largest per capita patient
load for any illness in the United States and probably in the entire
civilized world," Dr. Goldman told his colleagues at the 1955 convention.
"At the beginning of the year 1950 there were 656,061 patients
under jurisdiction of prolonged care in hospitals devoted to
care of the mentally ill.


"Numbers, however, do not indicate adequately the nature of the
problem of the chronically mentally ill, particularly in the state
hospital setting. There are well over one-half million human beings
whose hope of ever being able to take an active and interested part
in the life of their families and communities dwindles year by year
in accelerating fashion. Some of these patients are suffering from
degenerative infections and other organic illnesses which are not
particularly or specifically susceptible to any known form of treatment.
However, more than one-half of the residual patients, more
than one-quarter of a million human beings, are suffering from
what we have for many years called functional psychoses, which in
the last two decades have been found to be susceptible, in the early
stages particularly, to treatment by physical and pharmacologic
methods such as electric shock and its variants, insulin coma and
psychosurgery. This quarter of a million residual patients are now
largely residual after failure of treatment by these methods. There
are, in addition, in all of our state hospitals quite a number of
patients who were, even at the time of introduction of insulin and
electric shock treatment, already in the chronic and so-called deteriorating
stages of their illness. It is to this chronic and thus far treatment-resistant
group of patients that we give our attention in this
report."


Tackling the hard core of the state mental hospital load, Dr. Goldman
and his colleagues gave Chlorpromazine to more than 600
patients439 schizophrenics, 80 manic-depressives, and 160 patients
in miscellaneous categories.


"These patients represented at the time of present admission
chronic, heavily pre-treated psychotic illness, or had been in the hospital

[p. <i>114</i>]

In tabulating the results of his lengthy clinical trials, Dr. Goldman
used four classifications:


<i>a</i>. Patients who had recovered from all active psychotic manifestations.


<i>b</i>. Individuals who had recovered from most psychotic manifestations,
and whose improvement might be summarized as "a good
social remission."


<i>c</i>. Patients who had improved from their initial illness in significant
ways.


<i>d</i>. Patients who had improved slightly or not at all.


"In the manic-depressive group," Dr. Goldman summarized,
"even among the patients who have been in the hospital continuously
for from 5 to more than 20 years, 5 of 32 achieve a and b
remissions, and of the total group of 80 patients, 29 achieve such
levels of improvement.... In the schizophrenic group of over 10
years continuous hospitalization, we see that 8 of 136, about 5 per
cent, achieve <i>a</i> or <i>b</i> grades of remission and in the total group 146
out of 439, or roughly one-third, achieve this amazing level of
improvement. In all instances, such improvement has been of at
least two months duration, and in many cases a great deal longer,
and gives every indication of being maintained or further favorably
developed....

[p. <i>115</i>]

"The group of patients graded as having achieved c improvement
represents from the point of view of institutional administration
and clinical management a result almost as important as the group
which achieves social remission and recovery, particularly since
more than one-half the patients in the extremely chronic group
achieve results at this level. It is in this group that such important
changes take place as the cessation of physical assaults, destructiveness
of the physical plant, and the need for physical restraint; and
the beginning of adequate communication after long episodes of
muteness, and co-operative helpfulness instead of hostile resistance
to discipline. It is the marked palliative effect of treatment in this
group which has made it possible to discontinue the use of restraints
in wards formerly labelled violent, which has made it possible at
times to keep previously denudative patients clothed, incontinent
patients neat. In contrast to the effect of electric shock, which has
long been used as a palliative measure, is the effect of Chlorpromazine
which serves in a much more continuous and lasting fashion
to achieve the palliative results. The improvement produced by
Chlorpromazine is not, with rare exceptions, fluctuant, but is steadily
maintained while the patient is receiving treatment so that behavior,
instead of being unpredictable and impulsive, becomes in
many important ways dependable. Even the patients who are considered
to be failures from the use of Chlorpromazine in the statistical
formulation in many instances present changes in behavior which
make ward management a much less hazardous chore than before."


Concluding, Dr. Goldman spelled out some generalized results
which have been thoroughly substantiated during the past six
months as large Federal and state mental hospital systems have
reported on their experience with Chlorpromazine:


"The experience in treating over six hundred chronic patients
with Chlorpromazine over a period of almost a year has been reported
in some detail, indicating, (1) that a significant number of
such patients are susceptible to improvement of marked degree,
which can be described as social remission or recovery; (2) that
another group of more than half the patients showed what may be
described as a palliative effect so that the psychotic behavior which
presented the greatest difficulty in management was markedly
ameliorated; (3) that continuation of treatment with Chlorpromazine
over long periods of time produces progressive improvement

[p. <i>116</i>]

In the light of subsequent evidence, Dr. Goldman understated
the case for Chlorpromazine at the APA convention. Reporting on
further experience with the drug to the October, 1955, APA Mental
Hospital Institute, he described a control study initiated to determine
how effective the drug is in keeping released patients from
returning to the hospital. In the period from August, 1954, to
August, 1955, of ninety-three patients who were treated with
Chlorpromazine and then sent home on convalescent leave, only
six returned to the hospital. This is a remarkably low return rate.
Over the same period of time, of 124 patients at Longview who received
treatments other than drug therapy and were then released on
trial leave, fifty-seven returned to the hospital.


In the floor discussion following Dr. Goldman's report, a number
of state hospital doctors confirmed the low relapse figures following
drug therapy. For example, Dr. Benjamin Pollack of Rochester
State Hospital reported on a lengthy study of 250 patients who had
received drug therapy at that institution and then been released to
their homes. Over a period of a year, only 5 per cent had returned
to the hospital. This is a dramatic contrast to the depressingly high
percentage of former mental patientsthe national average runs
from 35 to 40 per centwho eventually must return to institutions
for further treatment.


In an even larger series of trials than those of Dr. Goldman, Dr.
Herman C. B. Denber and his associates at New York's huge Manhattan
State Hospital reported on the use of Chlorpromazine on
750 patients. Of this group, 494 patients had been hospitalized for
from three to ten years. Electroconvulsive therapy, insulin coma
treatment, and lobotomy, alone or in combination, were "the previous
unsuccessful treatments administered to 493 patients." The majority
of the 750 patients were given relatively low dosages300 milligrams

[p. <i>117</i>]

"Forty-eight patients have been discharged, and 5 are ready for
discharge; 48 patients were markedly improved; 475 improved; 174
patients showed no change. At the present time, electroconvulsive
treatment has been discontinued on the female wards, and is rarely
used in the male services. Insulin coma treatment is only occasionally
used.... Physical restraint has been decreased 74 per cent and
accidents by 75 per cent in the female wards. This change has been
slower on the male services where patients have been under treatment
for a shorter time.... The effects of Chlorpromazine medication
vary inversely with the duration of hospitalization. Nevertheless,
it was still possible to discharge 17 patients ill from five to ten
years, 3 of whom had been unsuccessfully treated previously with
electroshock, insulin coma, and lobotomy."


The evidence also began to roll in on the effectiveness of the
new drugs in treating hyperactive, emotionally disturbed children.
At an American Psychiatric Association regional research conference
in Galveston in February, 1955, Drs. Nathan Kline and George
T. Nicolaou of Rockland State Hospital, New York, reported on
preliminary work with Reserpine on a group of twenty-five adolescents
hospitalized at their institution. Of the eleven young schizophrenics,
all of whom had been psychotic for at least five years, only
three showed marked improvement. However, of the fourteen in
the nonschizophrenic groupoveractive, aggressive, and deeply disturbed
eight improved so remarkably that they were either discharged
or readied for discharge as soon as a suitable placement
could be found.


"The same patients who showed a sustained improvement in behavior
also demonstrated significant changes in their mental status,"
Drs. Kline and Nicolaou reported at Galveston. "Overt hostility
and aggressive attitudes were no longer the prominent features
which characterized these patients. Invariably they showed a desire
to relate and to enter into co-operative activity. There was greater
willingness to talk about their problems and to take advice and
guidance. Comments such as I feel content and happy inside and
don't feel like fighting any more were not uncommon. One of the

[p. <i>118</i>]

At the 1955 APA convention, Dr. Herbert Freed, Chief of the
Child Psychiatry Clinic of the Philadelphia General Hospital, reported
on the use of Chlorpromazine on twenty-five children ranging
in age from seven to fifteen years. All of them had been referred
to the Clinic by the school authorities; a number of them were so
assaultive and destructive they had been excluded from school.
Because of their disturbed condition, and because most of them came
from broken homes, psychotherapy with either the children or the
parents was practically impossible. The drug was therefore tried as
a sort of last resort, and it was given over periods varying from four
to sixteen months.


The Clinic staff, the school counselor, and a battery of psychological
studies all testified to significant improvement in twenty-one
of the children. The outstanding manifestation was a lessening of
nervous overactivity. Many of the children spontaneously commented
that they didn't feel the urge to fight any more. This was gratefully
confirmed by their teachers.


There was an appreciable increase in learning ability, although
the IQ's remained the same. With a decrease in hyperexcitability,
the children seemed able to tackle the learning process in calm
fashion. Memory span increased, and previously insuperable chores
such as the multiplication tables succumbed to a quieter, more
controlled approach. In five cases, the learning improvement was
spectacular, and two children who had been excluded from school
returned and made a satisfactory adjustment.


"It is suggested that the children are helped by this drug because
the primitive animal-like response when encountering a new situation
to fight it or seek flight from itis controlled so that the
child faces previously disturbing situations and learns how to control
them," Dr. Freed concluded.


In assessing the remarkable therapeutic range of Chlorpromazine,
there is considerable agreement that its most exciting potential lies
in its use in the private practice of psychiatry. In November, 1954,

[p. <i>119</i>]

In Dr. Ayd's experience, as in that of most of his colleagues,
Chlorpromazine proved slightly more effective. Of the 150 patients
who used Chlorpromazine, ninety-nine showed significant improvement,
while of the 150 who used Reserpine, eighty-four showed like
improvement. In a smaller number of cases, therapeutic failures with
Chlorpromazine were treated with Reserpine, and vice versa. Again
Chlorpromazine had a slight edge.


In summarizing the results of his work with the drugs over a
sixteen-month period, Dr. Ayd stressed the vital role of these drugs
in giving both the private psychiatrist and the general practitioner
really effective weapons against acute mental illness.


"Chlorpromazine and Reserpine make it possible to treat on an
ambulatory basis many patients who would have had to be hospitalized,"
Dr. Ayd told his colleagues. "In the few instances that
hospitalization was necessary, patients could be adequately treated
in a general hospital or a regular nursing home. After a week or
two of hospitalization, these patients were treated in the office.
Only in severe manic or schizophrenic reactions was commitment
to a psychiatric hospital necessary for a few weeks.... Geriatric
patients made satisfactory home adjustments while taking Chlorpromazine
or Reserpine. Without these drugs these senile individuals
would have been placed in nursing homes, or state or private
psychiatric hospitals. When treated with Chlorpromazine or Reserpine,
geriatric patients in nursing homes were able to remain there
or return home instead of entering a psychiatric hospital....


"Chlorpromazine and Reserpine are valuable additions to the
therapeutic armamentarium of the private practicing psychiatrist.
Properly utilized, these drugs can: (1) increase the number of
patients who may be treated in the office; (2) shorten the period
of hospitalization, or make hospitalization unnecessary, thereby
reducing the admissions to our overcrowded state psychiatric hospitals;
(3) replace or reduce the need for electroconvulsive therapy,
and (4) reduce the cost of psychiatric care."

[p. <i>120</i>]

The importance of Dr. Ayd's viewpoint cannot be exaggerated.
Over the past few decades, a wall has grown up between the general
practitioner and the psychiatrist. When the family doctor today
encounters a patient with a severe mental disturbance, he is, in most
cases, reluctant to refer the case to a private psychiatrist. He feels
that any treatment program undertaken will be prolonged and expensive,
with the end result quite uncertain. On the other hand, the
general practitioner feels that his own medical training does not
qualify him to handle routine cases of anxiety or other acute emotional
disturbances.


With the advent of the new drugs, this picture has changed dramatically.
The prominent British psychiatrist Dr. Thomas P. Rees,
Superintendent of the famed Warlingham Park Hospital, capsuled
this change in these words, delivered on a closed-circuit television
broadcast during the 1955 APA convention:


"I believe," Dr. Rees told his American colleagues, "that the
future of psychiatry lies not in the mental hospital, but outside the
mental hospital, and that our first task should be to educate the
general practitioner so that he can become a better psychiatrist and
eventually, I hope, put us all out of a job."


At the conclusion of Dr. Rees' talk, the couch market dropped
four points.

