
It is early January, 1968. I am forty years old today. There are certain
birthdays that are veiled warnings of danger—new challenges, loss of comfort,
threat of the unknown.


Forty is one of those birthdays, the signal year in which one's life comes
under attack from within. Am I where I planned to be? Am I who I wanted
to be? Am I doing what I should be doing?


I am acutely aware that I am alone, glancing frequently through the expansive
glass walls of my La Jolla house to catch a visitor approaching even
though I know there will be no visitors because I have invited none. I eat
dinner from a tray in front of the television. I try not to think about why
I have done this weird thing of shutting everyone out of my birthday. It
makes no sense because in my isolation I feel angry and abandoned. Where
is everybody?


I kept telling myself that I should plan something for my birthday, that's
what people do, but now Saturday has come and I am alone. I busy myself
with household tasks, cleaning closets, reorganizing drawers. I am bringing
order to an already orderly household, but doing this gives me a feeling that
everything is as it should be.


This birthday is a special one. Maybe I'm trying to avoid the specialness
of it. My mind goes back to my sixteenth, another special birthday. My
mother bought a cake and we waited for my father to come home to celebrate.
He never came, apparently forgetting that it was my birthday. My
mother went to bed crying, her usual solution to my father's transgressions.
Alone, I sang happy birthday to myself and dumped the cake in the trash.
I was beyond tears, hardening my resolve to never again expect anything to
work out for me in this failed family. Was I replicating my miserable sixteenth
now on my lonely fortieth? I don't sing happy birthday to myself. I
just go to bed early.


I have the dream that night, the one I've had before. In the dream, I return
to my house, but there are other people living there. They open the door but
look right through me. I am invisible. The door shuts in my face. I want to

[p. <i>148</i>]

Sunday morning I awaken with a start. I feel strangely detached, not sure
where I am. The mood of the dream is still with me. I get up and pass myself
in the mirror. The person I see there looks ravaged. She glares back at me,
eyes half-closed, face drawn by fatigue. She looks like she's had a hard night.
I hear a voice. Where is it coming from? "You are forty years old and something
is wrong."


"Something is wrong? What does that mean? My life is great. I do rewarding
work, I have a secure job, an active social life, terrific friends."


My mind tries to stay with these thoughts but it keeps slipping back to
the dream, to the party where I am not recognized, to the house where I
live but I don't. Where do I belong? I go back to bed and let the tears come.
I have been so afraid of this. I am in the crisis I have feared, this is why I
am alone on this day, to confront the charade, to see that the only way to
be free of the burden of my secret is for there to no longer be a secret. I
am terrified of this, but on my fortieth birthday I come face to face with
myself and I know I must stop the charade. I know I am homosexual. I can
no longer hide. I have to do something about it.


I had a feeling of déjà vu about my decision. Once before, at Stanford, I had
decided that if I were homosexual I couldn't do it there. Now I seemed faced
with the same dilemma—if I'm going to be gay, I can't do it in La Jolla.
Were there gay people in La Jolla? I'd never known any. The thought of being
a lesbian in La Jolla was horrifying. Actually the thought of being a lesbian
anywhere was horrifying. I hated that word. Maybe I could just be gay.


The matter was easily settled. Bell &amp; Howell was publishing my
ENCOUNTERTAPES, with elegant packaging and a commercial promotion
campaign. I'd been to the company's headquarters in Lincolnwood, Illinois,

[p. <i>149</i>]

My transition away from La Jolla stretched through March. There were
times when I had doubts about the wisdom of leaving so secure an existence.
Some days I would just sit in my office staring at the wall and obsessing:
Was I doing something liberating, or was it crazy and self-destructive?


"I'm not sure just what it is that I'm doing," I confided to Sid Jourard,
the brilliant psychologist who had written <i>The Transparent Self</i>. Sid and I
had crossed paths often at conferences and growth centers around the country.
He was in town to do a workshop at Kairos and he stopped by to say
hello. I was in a funk about the changes I was making, so when Sid asked
what was wrong, I told him. He smiled and nodded. "What you're doing
is reinventing yourself," he said. His words hit a chord. What a positive way
to think about it—I was reinventing myself.


On the day I arrived in Los Angeles to live in 1968, I was scheduled to do
a Quest for Love workshop at a local growth center. Miriam, the volunteer
coordinator, had efficiently organized the forty participants, and I was grateful
to her for everything running so smoothly. I'd spoken to Miriam on the
phone, but I'd not yet met her in person, so when she suggested we have
dinner after the workshop I readily agreed.


It wasn't until we were in the restaurant that I actually looked at Miriam.
She had a bright, open face and crystal-clear blue eyes. She spoke with a
vitality that was engaging. Short, with a Rubenesque build, there was a certain
sensuousness about her that I felt attracted to immediately, surprising
myself. I wasn't accustomed to letting such feelings come through. I had
to remind myself that it was okay now. I was allowed. It still made me
uncomfortable.


Miriam was about my age, divorced, three adolescent children, enthusiastically
involved in her work as a growth center volunteer. Miriam was a
talker and I liked listening to her animated delivery, lots of energy in her
voice and her face. I also liked watching her soft body shift as she spoke, as
if her enthusiasm exerted such force that she couldn't sit still.

[p. <i>150</i>]

In the week following my dinner with Miriam I thought about her a lot.
I was pleased when she called me to get together again. This time she came
to my house. During dinner, my mind kept slipping out of the conversation,
like a phonograph needle sliding out of its groove. I thought about how nice
it might be to hold that soft body. I wondered what it would be like to kiss
her mouth? Then I would shake myself awake. My god, this woman wasn't
even gay as far as I knew. What was I thinking? Immediately, my censor
went to work: Miriam was a San Fernando Valley housewife. She liked me,
she was nice to me. Am I going to fall in love with every woman who is
nice to me? I had no reference point for this. I'd fallen into my relationship
with Luce, no courtship, no pursuit. It just happened. I realized I hadn't the
vaguest idea how to court a woman. I felt stupid, then Miriam interrupted
my reverie.


"Hello? Are you there? You seem to have gone away," she said.


I felt embarrassed. "Sorry, just got lost in thought," I stammered.


"Thinking about what?"


"Oh nothing, really."


"I don't believe you."


Miriam looked me straight in the eye. I felt caught and thought about
lying, but that didn't feel right. "I was thinking about you."


Miriam smiled. "Good. Because I've been thinking about you."


Could I have heard that right? I searched Miriam's face for a clue as to
what she meant. She was staring at me intently. I wanted to look away, but
I couldn't. We must have stayed that way, staring at one another, for several
minutes. It seemed like an eternity.


I reached across the table and took Miriam's hand. She let me do it. I
could feel my heart trying to beat its way out of my chest. Slowly, I stood
up and went around the table. I leaned over Miriam and kissed her, a long,
lingering kiss. Her mouth tasted sweet. She seemed sure of what she was
doing. I wondered ... then decided not to think at all. We were moving
toward the bedroom, still kissing.


The rest of the night was a mixture of incredible tenderness and overwhelming
passion. We pressed ourselves together, holding in the ecstasy to
feel it, first in one body and then in the other, and then in both at once,
losing the boundaries between us, reaching a kind of unity that was beyond
understanding or even the desire to understand. I had never experienced so
much in so many parts of my body for so long a time. We stopped only
when exhaustion demanded it. With the morning light, we slept.

[p. <i>151</i>]

That was the beginning of a year-long relationship in which I was more
open than I had ever been to a loving sexual connection with a woman.
There was none of the ambivalence I'd felt when I was with Luce. I loved
being with Miriam and when we weren't together I missed her terribly. I
was so taken with what was happening in our sexual life that I hardly noticed
that we didn't have a life outside of bed.


Gradually it became apparent that Miriam was more troubled than I'd
suspected about the nature of our relationship. She didn't introduce me to
her family or her friends. She was not interested in meeting mine. We fought
about her seeming resistance to being integrated into my life in any way,
and as her conflict about being involved with a woman came increasingly
to the surface, I could no longer hide my awareness of it.


I was perplexed. Miriam claimed she had never before been attracted to
a woman as she was to me. I had difficulty believing her, but she stuck to
her story. She said over and over that she had simply fallen in love with me,
that this experience was about me, not about being gay. She insisted that for
her the quality of passion did not feel different being with a man or with a
woman. I didn't know what to believe about her. Was Miriam in denial of
her sexuality? She was certainly in conflict about what was happening, and
that conflict caused her to retreat from me. I had learned so much from this
sensual woman about opening up to my own sexuality that the possibility
of losing her felt unbearable. I tried once more to bind us together in life.


After much discussion, Miriam finally agreed to bring her sixteen-year-old
daughter, Cindy, to my house for dinner. Cindy turned out to be a
delightful young woman, clearly wise beyond her years. Miriam fidgeted,
nervously talked about nothing in particular, forgot to eat. Finally, Cindy
put her fork down and looked affectionately at her mother.


"Listen, Mom, will you settle down? I know that you and Betty are lovers,
and I think it's terrific. So relax, will you?"


Miriam gazed in disbelief at her daughter. Cindy reached over and patted
her mother's hand.


"Just relax, it's all right."


Miriam's eyes filled with tears. "What a kid," she said, shaking her head,
"and what a dope I am."


I was quick to agree with her on both counts.


I'd hoped Cindy's understanding and acceptance would be enough to
calm Miriam's inner turmoil, but it wasn't. She withdrew more and more.
I felt so empty without her, yearned to have my arms around her, hear her

[p. <i>152</i>]

What I gradually came to realize was how important a transitional relationship
my connection with Miriam had been. She was either not ready to
be gay, possibly not gay at all, but her gift to me was the opportunity to
experience intimacy with a woman without the conflict that I had felt so
deeply in the past. I was committed to continuing my search, though where,
how, and with whom I couldn't imagine.


Because I was still grieving the loss of my relationship with Miriam, I
welcomed the distraction of a multicity tour of the Quest for Love workshop
with a dear friend, Fred Stoller. Fred was the innovative psychologist who
co-invented marathon groups and developed the use of videotape feedback
in encounter groups. A few days before we were scheduled to leave on the
tour, I went to my doctor for a routine checkup. He found a small lump
in my left breast and insisted I see a surgeon right away. I was dispatched
to the office of Dr. K, a breast surgery specialist.


Shortly after I was admitted to Dr. K's office, I had a peculiar feeling—
something was not right there. Was I nervous? Yes, but it was more than
that. In a cold, precise manner, Dr. K posed his questions: "Do you have
any health problems?" "Have you ever had surgery?" "Are your parents
alive?" "Are they in good health?" My feeling that something in this office
was odd persisted. My eyes wandered from Dr. K's face to the diplomas on
the wall, to the pictures of children on the credenza behind him, to his desk.


"Has anyone in your family ever had breast cancer?"


Breast! That was it! Dr. K's desk was shaped like a breast! I took a closer
look. The desk was a half-cylinder that came to a point at the front, the
nipple aimed right at me. The doctor sat in the hollowed-out space at the
back of the breast. My mind began to race. Did Dr. K have a breast-shaped
bed, a breast-shaped house? He began to look surreal to me, going in and
out of focus, grotesque and menacing behind his breast.


"Excuse me. I have to leave now."


The doctor looked bewildered.


"I just have to leave," I said.


Outside I wondered if I'd been hallucinating. Did he really have a breast-shaped
desk? It didn't matter. Real or not, that breast was aimed right at
me. Calming myself, I telephoned my internist.


"I need another referral. I can't see Dr. K."

[p. <i>153</i>]

"Why not?"


"Because he has a desk shaped like a breast."


Silence on the other end.


"It's too unnerving, don't you see?"


"You're understandably anxious ..."


"I need another referral."


"Okay."


Dr. F was a warm, affable fellow who sat behind a normal desk. He recommended
immediate surgery to determine whether the lump was malignant.
Mammography was not yet in use, so it was necessary to open up and have
a look. I told the doctor that I was about to go on tour. Cancel, he advised,
but no, too many people were involved. I'd take my chances. Be back in a
month. Schedule me then. I felt fine, making it difficult to appreciate the
urgency of the situation. I was scared but also excited about the trip. What
difference could a few weeks make?


I waited until Fred and I were in the first city to tell him. At dinner one
evening, I said, "I think I might have cancer."


Fred put his fork down and looked at me. "What are you doing here?
Why aren't you in a hospital?"


"I didn't want to miss the trip."


"My god, aren't you worried?"


"Yes, but I'm going to put it out of my mind."


Fred's eyes filled with tears. "I couldn't stand for something to happen
to you. I really care about you."


"Nothing's going to happen to me. C'mon, you and I are tough. We'll
be on the road doing workshops together twenty years from now."


But I was wrong. Several months later, Fred was standing in line at a
bank when he had a heart attack and died on the spot. He was forty-six
years old. My breast lump was benign. I never felt vulnerable with this lump
despite knowing that it could have been cancer. Denial is a powerful ally,
but denial didn't work with Fred's death. I was shaken and scared by it, by
how unpredictable life is, and the irony of it being Fred and not me. It was
Fred's death that made me feel fragile, the suddenness of it, no warning.
That terrified me.


Early June, 1968. I looked around the rather grim room in the basement of
the Glide Memorial Church in San Francisco, where I would spend four

[p. <i>154</i>]

The people arrived. They did not seem put off by the room. Despite their
surroundings, or maybe because of them, my half-dozen participants worked
very hard their first two days together, becoming a cohesive group and opening
up to each other.


At the end of the second day, one of the group members invited us all
to her apartment for dinner. Her home was a welcome change of scene from
the spartan surroundings of the Glide basement. We had a nice long meal
and after dinner went into her living room. She turned on a small radio,
the music a pleasant backdrop to the animated conversation. Suddenly, the
music stopped and a tense voice broke in:


"Broadcasting from the Ambassador Hotel ..."


There followed a whoosh of static, then over the radio someone cried
out.


"My god! My god. No! No!"


We sat in dumbfounded silence, staring at the radio. The voice came back
to say that Senator Robert Kennedy had just been shot. He was bleeding
from the head on the cement floor of the Ambassador Hotel kitchen. Mrs.
Kennedy was with him. "Oh no, that poor family!" someone in our group
said.


I felt stunned. Martin Luther King shot just two months ago, John Kennedy
in Dallas. This was crazy. The announcer was back yelling almost hysterically
into the microphone. Senator Kennedy had won the California presidential
primary. He had just completed his victory speech and was leaving
the Embassy Room through a kitchen corridor. He had stopped to shake
hands with several of the kitchen staff when a man pointed a gun and began
shooting. Kennedy was down, others were wounded, the shooter was
grabbed. It all seemed to have happened in an instant. The announcer's
words described a scene that was devastating and surreal.


That broadcast is frozen in my mind. We stayed with the radio for a
while, hearing over and over again what had happened. Hardly anyone in
our group spoke. People just sat transfixed, riveted on the radio. About

[p. <i>155</i>]

The next morning at Glide Memorial Church, the seven chairs were
pulled tightly into the smallest circle possible. It was as though we had
drawn close to take comfort from one another's presence, protection from
the mad, unpredictable world outside. We talked about the uncertainties of
life and the profound effect that sudden death has on everyone's sense of
equilibrium.


The morning and afternoon sessions were intense. When we left at the
end of the day, Robert Kennedy's fate was still not known. When we gathered
again on June 6, we knew that he had died in the night. The mood of the
group was somber, and the talk was of vulnerability, which is what we were
all feeling. I have never had a group experience like that one. I will never
forget the Glide basement where seven who had been strangers were bonded
by a distant tragedy and the impact of the unexpected.

