Transcript of Audio File:
______________________________________________________________________________
BEGIN TRANSCRIPT:
CLIENT: So I got the bill but I forgot my checkbook. I have credit cards I can pay you with that now or I can bring you a check tomorrow. Or whichever you prefer.
THERAPIST: Um —
CLIENT: I saw an ad for the thing on the I-phone and I realized that they take 2.75 percent so.
THERAPIST: Oh. Okay.
CLIENT: If you'd rather get a check I can give you that.
THERAPIST: Yeah well that's probably better.
CLIENT: (laughs) Okay.
THERAPIST: I usually — it's worth the expedience with co-pays and stuff. (inaudible at 00:00:28) bills and things.
CLIENT: Uh-huh.
THERAPIST: But with something (inaudible at 00:00:32).
CLIENT: Large. Okay.
THERAPIST: That'd be better.
CLIENT: Okay. I'll do that. I'll write you a check. (inaudible at 00:00:41) I'm a little flustered today. Sorry. (laughs)
THERAPIST: Do you want a pen?
CLIENT: What?
THERAPIST: (inaudible at 00:00:47)
CLIENT: No I don't have the planner. So. The thing that — yeah.
THERAPIST: (inaudible at 00:00:49) Yeah.
CLIENT: Is the source of all of my information.
THERAPIST: All of your information there.
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: So what's on your mind? [00:00:59]
CLIENT: I'm trying to plan what I want to talk to you about less. That's good, right? (laughs)
THERAPIST: (laughs) Sure.
CLIENT: (laughing)
THERAPIST: I mean I guess strictly speaking — in a sense it doesn't matter because our plan we can look at why and what's it about and blah, blah, blah. But I know what you mean and sure.
CLIENT: (laughs) Okay. Sorry a little flustered. So thinking about a couple of things that came up last time we talked.
THERAPIST: Uh-huh.
CLIENT: That I've kind of been arguing back and forth with myself since then. I'm not sure you're right when you say that it never does go away. I don't know that that — I don't think that's right. [00:02:01]
THERAPIST: Okay.
CLIENT: Because I had a really good weekend.
THERAPIST: Oh good.
CLIENT: It was really good. And it wasn't good throughout but there were definitely chunks of time where it was just — I was just relaxed and happy. And none of this was there.
THERAPIST: Mm-hmm.
CLIENT: Um, And I guess you could argue that it's like still present in my mind somewhere and not in my consciousness and blah, blah, blah, blah. But I don't really know what to do with that. Like I don't find that model very useful.
THERAPIST: Okay.
CLIENT: Maybe I should but I don't. (laughs) Yeah. Yeah.
THERAPIST: (inaudible) it that you don't. [00:02:58]
CLIENT: Okay. Yeah. Yeah. (inaudible) talked just a lot. Just spent a lot of time hanging out with James and talking and talking and talking. And eating things. And talking. Yeah. Then we had dinner with our friends Cody and Kerry. And Cody is a writer and Kerry is a physicist. And they're really, really fantastic, good people. They've been really good to James. And Cody is just like talks non-stop.
But he's just — it irritated me for the first half-hour that I knew him but he has to be in charge of every conversation. But being in charge doesn't mean that he has to be the only person saying anything or he doesn't have the final word. So it's pretty okay. There was a lot of talking. Yeah. Yeah. And then I flew back and there was this weight settling back down on me. So that's less good. Yeah. There's something else I was thinking about from last time. [00:04:21]
THERAPIST: Mm-hmm.
CLIENT: But — and now I can't remember what it is. I'm sure it'll come up again. My Mom hurt my feelings last night. I told her that she hurt my feelings. And she said, "I'm sorry." And that she was glad that I could tell her about it. I said, "Well I'm glad you could take it." That was good. But my feelings are still hurt. (laughs) I hung up shortly after that. I was like, "I'm not upset with you anymore but I've got to go." (laughs)
THERAPIST: Right.
CLIENT: It's just she's not very good at other people's emotions. So the last time we talked, I said, "I'm looking for a job." And she was kind of thinking out loud.
THERAPIST: Yeah.
CLIENT: Her job is not — doesn't have a lot of upward mobility and because of that she's worried that it doesn't have a lot of security. So she's like, "Yeah I should really think about getting a new job." And so today, or yesterday I called her, and she's like, "Oh I have a new job!" And it turns out she just went to a different area within the same company that she's working in but doing actual programming which she hasn't done for awhile. [00:05:39]
THERAPIST: Oh.
CLIENT: And said, "I want to work for you guys." And they said, "Okay, great." And she was really excited about that. And that was great. But then she was like, "You know I'm so proud of you guys but ha, ha, ha. Sometimes I wish one of you would follow in my footsteps into computer science."
And I was like, "First of all, you're not an programmer. You have no training in computer science. (laughs) Second of all, tBryans. Like, great. TBryan you for reminding me that I'm not qualified for any of the jobs that I'm applying for. And that it would so much easier for me to get a job if my entire life had taken an entirely different path." And then she said — then she just kind of kept talking. And I had kind of fallen silent. And she said, "You know ha. Maybe oh what is it? Oh [assyriology]. Maybe that'll be the next hot thing." And I was like, "Mom I think you're making fun of me. And that hurts my feelings. I think you need to stop that." [00:06:41] (laughs)
THERAPIST: Yeah. Yeah. It sounds like it felt as though she was gloating.
CLIENT: Yeah! And I think she was and she didn't — but that's the thing. She's just not good at other people's emotions. She just didn't have it in her mind then that she was not talking to her therapist. She was talking to her daughter who is seriously depressed, looking for a job, not finding a job and is really upset about that. (laughs) But you know that's my Mom. She's just not — . Yeah it should — she's so sincere. And trying so hard but she's just not good at being aware of me. [00:07:51]
THERAPIST: Mm.
CLIENT: As a person. She tries so hard. She's just not very good at it. And she still thinks that the thing to do is give me compliments and say nice things to me. And say nice things about me. Look that's very sweet of her but—oh well.
THERAPIST: Mm-hmm.
CLIENT: (inaudible at 00:08:22) so her response was like, "I really didn't mean to make fun of you. I am so proud of you and everything you've done. I'm so proud of you." Great. You know. Like I accept that as an apology and I truly do. But she doesn't know what it means to be proud of me right now. Like she doesn't — those words aren't connected to anything in me. [00:09:05]
THERAPIST: Mm-hmm.
CLIENT: Yeah. But I spoke up. Score one for me. (laughs) (pause at [00:09:18] to 00:09:41) So here is something that is very hard for me to talk about.
THERAPIST: Yeah.
CLIENT: James and I are having sex problems. Problems with sex.
THERAPIST: Oh.
CLIENT: It's been probably the only big problem in the last few months. Mainly I just — I'm having trouble orgasming during sex. Which is usually the only time I do orgasm. And then it's like emotions everywhere. [00:10:14] (laughs)
So I don't know. It's like things start off fine. And they go fine and then the part at which I would usually kind of start moving into orgasm it's just like everything shuts down.
THERAPIST: Gosh.
CLIENT: And so that's not very much fun.
THERAPIST: No I would think not.
CLIENT: I think it would be a lot easier to deal with and work through and talk about if we were living together. And weren't already on a schedule that is hell on our sex life. Because James basically just wants to have sex everyday. I mean, you know. And I basically want to have sex twice a week.
THERAPIST: Uh-huh.
CLIENT: And I basically want to have sex twice a week if I kind of push myself to want to have sex twice a week. Which I really do. [00:11:04]
THERAPIST: Yeah.
CLIENT: So - . But we only see each other like every two or three weeks. So then it's like we have to have as much sex as possible in this period of time because we're not going to see each other (inaudible at 00:11:16) that.
THERAPIST: So you always feels as if you have to be (inaudible at 00:11:21).
CLIENT: So I'm like — right next to each other. (laughs)
THERAPIST: (inaudible at 00:11:22)
CLIENT: Like those specific two days.
THERAPIST: Yeah. Yeah.
CLIENT: (laughs) And you know it's another, as with a lot of things, it's a case where I put pressure on myself trying to look out for James. Rather than he puts pressure on me.
THERAPIST: No.
CLIENT: (laughing) Yeah.
THERAPIST: I can't imagine.
CLIENT: (laughs) But I don't know. I think it's like I'm just holding in this sadness and I just can't relax. You know so sometimes when I do orgasm then I just cry uncontrollably for like 20 minutes or half an hour. [00:12:23]
THERAPIST: Oh.
CLIENT: And that's usually pretty good. I mean that's a good way of getting through those emotions and I feel better afterward. And James is totally okay with that.
THERAPIST: Like it's cathartic?
CLIENT: Yeah. Yeah. But it's not cathartic when I don't orgasm and then I cry for an hour. (laughs) That's less good.
THERAPIST: Uh-huh. I see.
CLIENT: And then even when I don't break down, I'm still holding onto this sadness and trying not to show it to James. But that's not a fruitful way to go so I'm trying not to do that.
THERAPIST: You mean holding it back?
CLIENT: Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Trying to put it aside and try not to think about it. [00:13:24]
THERAPIST: Uh-huh.
CLIENT: So we talked about it. We have talked it about it. But we talked it about it a little more in a constructive way last night.
THERAPIST: Uh-huh.
CLIENT: I'm just like okay, "Well let's try these things." Like okay, "What can we do? What are the circumstances in which things are working? And which things aren't working? So we'll avoid this. And (inaudible at 00:13:56) other things."
THERAPIST: You mean it was sort of a technical discussion?
CLIENT: Yeah. (laughs) Yeah. Yeah. (pause at [00:14:05] to 00:14:14)
THERAPIST: Did that feel helpful?
CLIENT: It did. I mean —
THERAPIST: That's like a genuine question. Just to be clear. [00:14:21]
CLIENT: I know.
THERAPIST: Yeah. Okay.
CLIENT: I know. It did. I worry that most — I mean think a good deal of what's going on is internal to me. And so there's only so much — so my attitude tends to be well it's something that I need to deal with. And James's attitude tends to be — well I mean the way that we approach sex, and the ways that we have sex and the times and the situations — those change your mood. And those are — you know. (laughs) That's like, "I can help."
THERAPIST: Yeah.
CLIENT: For background I had never had an orgasm before I started dating James. And at like 19.
THERAPIST: Mm-hmm.
CLIENT: And it was one of his finer moments. He was like, "Oh project." (laughter) And it took us about a year. But yeah I was just like, "I am broken. I cannot orgasm. It doesn't work for me." And he was like, "I don't believe that. We can fix this." (laughs) So. He's good that way. [00:15:53]
THERAPIST: What helped?
CLIENT: I mean figuring out — first of all being with somebody that I could say, "This isn't working." Because my only real partner before then had been Bryan.
THERAPIST: Right.
CLIENT: Whose own sense of self and ego was so tied up in being good at this that I couldn't say, "This isn't working."
THERAPIST: He didn't know?
CLIENT: No he didn't know. I told him at one point and then I just faked it.
THERAPIST: Uh-huh.
CLIENT: So being with somebody that I could just be like, "Nope. Sorry. It's not good enough." And who wouldn't take that personally.
THERAPIST: Yeah.
CLIENT: And then just a lot of experimenting and just figuring out that for me I just need more pressure than most women. So like a couple of years I got a really good vibrator. It's one of the best things I've ever done. (laughs) Like definitely worth $75. (laughs) But that that's all it was. And you know it's kind of like — I mean. It sounds cliched but it is like riding a bike. Once you get the balance then you know what that balance feels like. [00:17:33]
THERAPIST: Yeah.
CLIENT: And then you can figure that out. But it is still —
THERAPIST: I guess I assume you're kind of referring to both of you like both your knowing what felt like the right sort of level of stimulation for you and also his having a sense of that as well.
CLIENT: Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. And largely it's kind of — he kind of follows my cues for pacing and things.
THERAPIST: Mm-hmm.
CLIENT: And that is good. I don't know what I was going to say. Yeah so it's very frustrating because at this point — before the last three or four months — it was kind of like our sex life wasn't where we wanted it to be but that was mostly situational. Like that was a kind of a, "We'll work this out when we're together." [00:18:47]
THERAPIST: I see. Like a lot to do with just being in different places.
CLIENT: Yeah. And the pressures that I was feeling from that. But when we did have sex I would always orgasm. Like 95 percent of the time. It was good.
THERAPIST: Yeah.
CLIENT: Like we were in a place where we were having really good sex. And that was great.
THERAPIST: That's good.
CLIENT: Yeah. That's awesome. Everybody should have good sex. (laughs)
THERAPIST: You'd recommend it.
CLIENT: (laughter) Yeah. Well it's both kind of reassuring to me and really distressing to me that sometime when I was like 20 or 21 I realized that I have so many women friends who don't — who never had an orgasm. They just don't know how to. And kind —
THERAPIST: Yeah.
CLIENT: And yeah mostly it's just not talking about it enough I think. [00:19:48]
THERAPIST: Mm-hmm.
CLIENT: And not being able to be comfortable enough to talk about it.
THERAPIST: Yeah.
CLIENT: But so it's still — I don't know. I think a part of it is kind of the figuring out the purely mechanical things that work. But a lot of it for me is clearly is in my head. In that we can be doing everything right and it's just like — I just stop. And I just stop being aroused. And then that's all there is to it. And so I kind of try to keep going. "Well somebody should get an orgasm out of this." [00:20:43] (laughs)
THERAPIST: Right.
CLIENT: But James this weekend was like, "I can tell when it stops working for you. And then it stops working for me. So it's better to just let it go at that point."
THERAPIST: Mm-hmm.
CLIENT: Which was helpful for me to hear. But —
THERAPIST: Do you have any sense of either physically, emotionally or in your thoughts what's going on when — like at the moment when it does stop working? Are there any -
CLIENT: I just stop being able to focus on what we're doing. I start being sad and worrying. And being anxious. And it's like there's always some level, well not always, but most of the time there is some level of anxiety at some point in my head. And so it's like I'm just trying to set that aside. [00:21:54]
THERAPIST: I see. (inaudible)
CLIENT: And it stops being able to be set aside. I think I also have a tendency to—when I'm feeling anxious or worried and still want to have sex—I tend to rush things. And so then it's just I'm not ready.
THERAPIST: Mm-hmm.
CLIENT: But it's like I feel like if I just move faster then I can push it aside for long enough. But that doesn't — it sometimes works. But not always. Or it sometimes works but usually not realistically. (chuckles)
THERAPIST: Yeah. Yeah.
CLIENT: You know it's an added complication of I'm afraid to have sex because of — it's like that often pushes me right into being completely overwhelmed and despairing and sad. And horrible. And I fear those times. I don't want to go there. [00:23:17]
THERAPIST: Mm-hmm.
CLIENT: That was what I wanted to say or talk about from last time. He says it's hard to kind of just sit with being sad. I understand — why should I just sit with being sad? I can think of several answers for that question. (laughs) It feels intolerable. It's horrible. Isn't the point not to be sad? (laughs) (pause at [00:23:56] to 00:24:04) You don't have to answer that question if you don't want to. (laughs)
THERAPIST: (laughs) It sounds like a challenge. I mean —.
CLIENT: In some ways, yeah. (laughs) Which is why I said you don't have to answer it if you don't want to. [00:24:22]
THERAPIST: Yeah. Yeah. Yeah.
CLIENT: (laughs) Because also I feel like there are a couple of obvious answers. And it's just that I'm not sure.
THERAPIST: Well let's look at the tone of the question before we get to the answers. Maybe.
CLIENT: Okay.
THERAPIST: (pause at [00:24:35] to 00:25:02) Yeah I guess I have the impression that you put it out there like you kind of know that it's fodder for debate. Like I'm the psychologist who clearly thinks that sitting with and baring feelings is the way to go. And —. [00:25:24]
CLIENT: Well that seemed to be assumed by both of us in our conversation last time. And it wasn't until I left that I was like, "That's necessarily the right assumption." So yeah. (laughs)
THERAPIST: (chuckles) (pause at [00:25:37] to 00:25:47) I guess I think you want to debate with me a little bit about it. Which is okay. I'm not saying there is anything — but it seems to be a bit of the gist of where you're going.
CLIENT: Yeah I mean that's certainly the impulse.
THERAPIST: Yeah.
CLIENT: But I don't need that. Maybe it's more that I'm debating with myself internally. [00:26:18]
THERAPIST: (inaudible) likely to me is sort of giving me half of it.
CLIENT: Yeah. Yeah.
THERAPIST: Consistent with my profession. Like the half that — you know. But sure. Yeah. I could certainly well imagine that you have sort of mixed up and mixed feelings about it. What do you have in mind?
CLIENT: (sighs) Well it's I can't tell whether —. Anyway I have these episodes where I just — I'm just overwhelmed with sadness.
THERAPIST: Yeah.
CLIENT: And despair and self-hatred. And I cry a lot. And it's very difficult to keep from hurting myself.
THERAPIST: Right.
CLIENT: And I think about committing suicide and it's just horrible. [00:27:25]
THERAPIST: Yeah.
CLIENT: And I can't tell whether those are going to happen anyway or whether I make those happen by thinking about things. I can't tell whether I can avoid those by just not going there in my head.
THERAPIST: Mm-hmm.
CLIENT: And sometimes after those episodes I feel lighter the next day. Like Saturday night was really bad. And James just held me for a long time. And I was in a really bad place.
THERAPIST: Mm-hmm.
CLIENT: And then most of Sunday I was fine. It was gone. But so —
THERAPIST: (inaudible at 00:28:19) Do you need to go through a Saturday night before you get to the Sunday or if you had just somehow been able to nip it in the bud on Saturday night, and watch a stupid movie or whatever, would Sunday have been just as good? [00:28:30]
CLIENT: Exactly.
THERAPIST: (inaudible at 00:28:32)
CLIENT: Yeah. And I guess that's also tied up with my feeling like this is my fault. Or feeling like I could stop this if I knew how and chose too.
THERAPIST: Uh-huh.
CLIENT: I was thinking about this last night when I was having a hard time. And I really, really wanted to hurt myself. But I said, "No. I've made the decision. No. No." And that was it. I mean I didn't stop wanting to hurt myself but I knew that I was not going to.
THERAPIST: Uh-huh.
CLIENT: And I didn't. And it was very simple in some ways. So I - . (pause at [00:29:24] to 00:29:32) Yeah. I can't tell whether I am making myself worse than I need to be. (pause at [00:29:42] to 00:30:11)
THERAPIST: Mm. (pause at [00:30:11] to 00:30:27) Do you have other thoughts?
CLIENT: That when I say, "No I've made that decision. I won't." That's not quite true in that I did scratch myself on the plane on Saturday. And — yeah. And I have not been entirely successful in controlling my actions. I haven't cut myself. I tend to think, "Well if it doesn't leave a mark it doesn't count." [00:31:00] (laughs)
THERAPIST: (inaudible)
CLIENT: Which I recognize is equivocating. (laughs) But oh well.
THERAPIST: Yeah. Yeah that's certainly good not to be cutting yourself.
CLIENT: Yes. That is true. (pause at [00:31:21] to 00:32:32)
THERAPIST: Yeah I'm not sure what to say. (pause at [00:32:34] to 00:32:49) I guess I'm sort of like putting together things that you're talking about but I'm not quite sure what to say about it. So what you said at the beginning about wanting to plan less what you say here and just talk. [00:33:20]
CLIENT: Trying to. Not necessarily wanting to. (laughs)
THERAPIST: (inaudible at 00:33:28) I stand completely corrected. (laughs)
CLIENT: (laughs)
THERAPIST: And what you were talking about to do with sex. And you're kind of on one hand really making it — I mean there are a few things. Like really making an effort to talk about it here that was difficult. Really making an effort to be close to James in that way in spite of the constraints of your schedule and stuff.
And how — I guess my thought was that there is something about how close you feel to him during sex especially as you're really starting to let yourself go that has to do with the emotions that get stirred up. Like that when — my thought. Something about feeling that intimate or feeling that close that brings to the surface sort of the personal sadness that you feel. [00:35:03]
CLIENT: I mean not every time but periodically I've always cried after sex.
THERAPIST: Oh.
CLIENT: It's a (inaudible at 00:35:14) thing. James is okay with it. Sometimes that means it's really good. (laughs)
THERAPIST: He's especially okay with that.
CLIENT: Yeah. (laughter)
THERAPIST: What are you crying from mostly?
CLIENT: I don't know.
THERAPIST: Huh.
CLIENT: I think it's when I am tense and worrying. And it's like that kind of comes out. I don't know. [00:36:07]
THERAPIST: So what's clear is that it feels like a release?
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: Not exactly — I guess it sounds like releasing the sort of tension of having to work pretty hard to hold it together or hold something together.
CLIENT: Yeah that's about right. Yeah.
THERAPIST: So it's like the tears are of release?
CLIENT: Yeah. Yeah. But I'm also sad. But more really it's been sad.
THERAPIST: Uh-huh. I imagine the relief had something to with how reassuring it is to feel so good and so close to him at the same time. [00:37:05]
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: That like you can feel, I think, so safe and so intimate. And that feels really good. Which I guess I would add (inaudible at 00:37:30) and so yourself, like you're not holding back. And that all works well.
CLIENT: Yeah. I think that's right. But it —it's definitely triggered by orgasm. It doesn't happen when I'm in other situations where I feel very close and intimate and safe and entirely myself with James. [00:38:02]
THERAPIST: (inaudible at 00:38:04)
CLIENT: Many, many non-sexual situations.
THERAPIST: Conversations or something.
CLIENT: Where like — yeah.
THERAPIST: Yeah.
CLIENT: That happens.
THERAPIST: Uh-huh.
CLIENT: Yeah. Anyway. James was just saying, "I just feel really good to being able to be with you and talk with you. (inaudible at 00:38:28) this weekend. Yeah you really should spend more time with people." And I said, "It doesn't work except with you." (laughs)
THERAPIST: (laughs)
CLIENT: And he said, "Oh okay." (inaudible at 00:38:43) both a good thing and a sad thing.
THERAPIST: Yeah.
CLIENT: But — (pause at [00:38:47] to 00:38:56).
THERAPIST: Yeah I don't get the impression you've had that much. Not close discussions or like relationships with people that are emotionally intimate in various ways. [00:39:12]
CLIENT: I mean I definitely — I have a lot of relationships in which there are many moments at which I say, "Ah we're entirely on the same page here." And that's really fun. It's really nice.
THERAPIST: Mm-hmm.
CLIENT: Like yeah. I have a lot of relationships that I would term intimate. But fewer now in that it's harder for me to be intimate with people.
THERAPIST: How many — maybe like this is the discriminating factor.
CLIENT: And I don't have sex with anybody.
THERAPIST: Right.
CLIENT: (laughs) Sorry.
THERAPIST: (laughs)
CLIENT: Sorry.
THERAPIST: My hypothesis may still hold. That even in — I wonder how much has to do with really being out of control. Like which happens during sex. Especially with orgasm. Like really letting go. Like really letting yourself go. I mean —. [00:40:37]
CLIENT: Yeah that's not common.
THERAPIST: Yeah. And I'm thinking in addition to that happening sexually, it happening other ways emotionally gets you really upset. Or I guess really pissed off. Like just kind of losing it. (pause at [00:41:03] to 00:41:12)
CLIENT: Yeah that doesn't happen very often. I don't (pause at [00:41:21] to 00:41:30). I mean I really cannot remember the last time I actually lost my temper. It's like I don't lose my temper.
THERAPIST: Mm-hmm. I just think you do. It just all happens inside. [00:41:43]
CLIENT: (laughs)
THERAPIST: It's like an implosion. (inaudible at 00:41:46)
CLIENT: Yes that's true. I don't take my temper out on other people. Yeah. But I call people out. I just —
THERAPIST: Absolutely. No I don't —
CLIENT: I'm very careful about it.
THERAPIST: Yeah. Controlled I think.
CLIENT: Yeah. Yeah and I mean certainly there — yeah I mean I think most of my friends have seen me cry uncontrollably. At one point or another. But not very often.
THERAPIST: Mm-hmm.
CLIENT: Most of them I know that it is okay if I do. But it's not the same thing as doing it. Yeah. (pause at [00:42:39] to 00:42:51) Mm. Mm.
THERAPIST: I guess I'm [understanding] that maybe there are ways that you're sort of working hard to hold yourself together or sort of be in control of yourself in some of those ways that you aren't generally aware of. [00:43:14]
CLIENT: Mm-hmm. That sounds right. I mean true and simple — I mean often when I cry after sex I wasn't aware that I was that tense. Or holding it together that much. Until it's gone.
THERAPIST: Mm-hmm.
CLIENT: I mean what else do I do? I've got to live. (laughs)
THERAPIST: That was a pretty stark alternative. (laughs)
CLIENT: Yes. Yeah. Yeah. It's like it's not socially acceptable to cry in public. I do anyway sometimes but it's just not. [00:44:23] (pause to 00:44:38)
THERAPIST: I'm sure that's responsible for some of why there's not more crying in public but not a lot of it. Which is to say like that you want to so often that you feel like it. I think is pretty important. In other words, you're like, "Look, I've got to hold myself together. I've got to live! I've got to sort of make my way in the world. Whatever." And I'm saying, "Wow it sounds like it takes a lot of work in holding yourself together that I think of a lot people aren't having to do. In order for you to do that." [00:45:27]
CLIENT: Yeah. Yeah. I think so. But —
THERAPIST: (inaudible at 00:45:33) I don't think it is that everybody is sort of working as hard as you to hold things in for the sake of making through some part of the day.
CLIENT: Yeah. I mean I think — I do think that's true. I just don't know what the alternative is. I mean this is the hand that I was dealt. (laughs)
THERAPIST: Sure. I don't know what the alternative is either. But I think it's good to know if this is what's going on.
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: Which I know to some extent maybe not.
CLIENT: But yeah.
THERAPIST: Maybe to a large extent or mostly you're already pretty clear about.
CLIENT: Yeah I don't think about it as much. We tend to think that other people have largely similar internal experiences to us. So I kind of come up with a shock a lot to realize that it's not this hard for other people. [00:46:41]
THERAPIST: I see. Yeah.
CLIENT: But most of the time it doesn't feel this hard for me. It's just like — it's just the last year and a half. (laughs)
THERAPIST: We should (inaudible at 00:47:03) for now.
CLIENT: Okay.
THERAPIST: But we'll talk more tomorrow.
CLIENT: (inaudible at 00:47:11)
THERAPIST: Oh. (laughs)
CLIENT: (inaudible) [00:47:17] [End of audio]
END TRANSCRIPT
