TRANSCRIPT OF AUDIO FILE:
___________________________________________________________________________________
BEGIN TRANSCRIPT:
COUNSELOR: Do you want to put your coat down on one of the chairs?
PATIENT: So I feel...I don't know, I feel sort of silly doing this now. It is really strange. I was on the train and I was like: "Why am I doing this?" I certainly know I need help but...you know what I mean?
COUNSELOR: So tell me more about silly?
PATIENT: I don't know. I can't tell you about silly. I feel strange. Like I should be doing...I shouldn't have to be doing this. Like I am at a certain age, I should be okay. I shouldn't have to be going to therapy although I am now, you know...
COUNSELOR: You kind of alluded to that last time as well. At this age., but it seem to a significant thing for you, around coming for help. Can you tell me more about that?
PATIENT: I just feel I have been right between being in AA and going through different type of programs and going through a (inaudible 1:42) program even though I wasn't clinical - I was administrating. You think you are supposed to be somewhere. Nine years sober, going to AA. Always talking about stuff and how you feel - that I would be in a different spot. The feeling that I know that I have - and I have it a lot - I don't accept myself. I guess I have...when I read that paper about the self-critical thinking and everything, I had a lot of that, you know.
COUNSELOR: About what? How we think therapy works - some of the thinking behind it? The project about...
PATIENT: Yeah, and there is a part of me that thinks I am never going to be helped. I am that unique person that is constitutionally incapable of being honest with themself or whatever.
COUNSELOR: Was that your experience after leaving the last time?
PATIENT: Just leaving here?
COUNSELOR: Yeah. You have been here once so I was just wondering. This experience of feeling silly about it. (3:03)
PATIENT: No. I was really aware of it all the way over here. I almost feel I should be sitting there and somebody should be...you know what I mean. At this point in my life, why am I still sitting over here?
COUNSELOR: Can you tell me...I think that is important - let us just stay with that? What does sitting over here mean to you?
PATIENT: Because you are all fixed and better. Even though...you are all fixed and better - I am forever going to be in therapy. Influentially I know therapy's not the rule...I won't be in therapy all my life, I want the feeling of...why am I not sitting over on that side?
COUNSELOR: And if you were sitting over here, you would feel all fixed and better?
PATIENT: Well, maybe. Maybe it has something to do with that - better than I am. It doesn't really make sense I guess.
COUNSELOR: Well, I am wondering what it means about your thoughts, fantasies, and ideas about me?
PATIENT: About you?
COUNSELOR: M-hmm. And how someone who you are imagining is in this chair - which to you represents "all fixed and better." How someone is going to regard you or understand...I don't know I would like to hear.
PATIENT: There is a part of me, like with the therapist; I feel that - I know - that you are there just to help guard my thinking. But I really feel on some level, I think that you are on a pedestal. You are fixed and you are better.
COUNSELOR: So you attribute that to me just by virtue of the fact that I am in this chair.
PATIENT: Yes. You are in a higher place or something. (5:57)
COUNSELOR: Have you ever been in this chair?
PATIENT: Yeah, I have. Yeah.
COUNSELOR: When?
PATIENT: When I worked in the schools I did drug counseling and work counseling. I was in my internship (inaudible 6:25) and was running a program at the time so I was in a tight position.
COUNSELOR: How did you feel?
PATIENT: I felt good. I felt I had something to give. I knew what I was doing. My self-esteem gets in the way you know what I mean. I don't know (inaudible 7:08). I want to leave. I really don't want to talk about this anymore because I feel like it is not important to me...it is not important - that is how I feel.
COUNSELOR: What do you think that is about then? Do you have inkling?
PATIENT: What it is about for me?
COUNSELOR: M-hmm, why is it coming up now?
PATIENT: I think probably talking so much about my feelings. I guess there is a part of me that...I don't know...I am sort of like...I don't know.
COUNSELOR: What happened just now? You look like you kind of...got quieter?
PATIENT: Yeah, well I feel as if, like, if you say: "Well, how did you feel in that chair - when you were in that chair." I told you - I think I told you this - that I have problems selling myself in interviews and everything. So if I was to tell you that I was sitting in that chair and I was feeling good, you would say: "Well, she is bragging." do you know what I am saying - something to that effect.
COUNSELOR: So I am pretty judgmental with you?
PATIENT: (Chuckles)
COUNSELOR: Well, it sounds like that is what you imagine - you can't win for losing.
PATIENT: That is true. I am afraid of people...
COUNSELOR: Even if you tell me you feel good, I am going to say there is something wrong with that. (8:58)
PATIENT: Yeah, that is it.
COUNSELOR: What were you going to say?
PATIENT: If I feel good or just brag or say I do bad at my job or do good at my job or anything like that.
COUNSELOR: And how am I going to feel about that? If you brag or say you do good at your job?
PATIENT: That I am bragging. That is how I am feeling.
COUNSELOR: That somehow I would be critical?
PATIENT: And I know I am critical of myself - I know that.
COUNSELOR: Well if that is wonder if that is something you are willing to let us work with here.
PATIENT: Being critical of myself?
COUNSELOR: Because I think already what you have identified is that something goes on for you. In terms of us beginning to talk about your feelings, there is a tendency - at least tonight there is and I think we are talking about this at the end of the session last time - when we start to really talk about your feelings or what I might think of you, or what you imagine I might think of you, there is a tendency to shut down and close up. And that seems to happen by your thinking that I am being critical. So I think the first place for us to start is right there. What happens for you when we do start to talk about your feelings? How are you feeling right now? A minute ago you were saying you wanted to leave. Are you still feeling that way?
PATIENT: I get uncomfortable, no. No I don't feel that way really. When I say about getting up and leaving, I think it is more that I am uncomfortable and I do want to be. Right now, I feel...I don't know what I feel...I fell like I can't define the feeling. See what happens when I talk about my feelings a lot, I want to get silly. I start joking, laughing...it seems like there is no interference there with my feelings. You were asking about my feelings and it is hard sometimes. (12:20)
COUNSELOR: No interference - like what?
PATIENT: People aren't walking in and interfering with me. They are already going to say: "Hold on a minute - let me do this." Or a phone isn't ringing, you know.
COUNSELOR: Well you know, Will, it might also be that perhaps we should spend some time on what you think my expectations are of you in here. You seem to have some thoughts about what they are. How do you think that I expect you to behave coming in here?
PATIENT: I don't know. Somewhere at some level I think that I am supposed to articulate to you how I feel what is wrong with me so that you can just fix it. And I feel like sometimes when I am talking to you I am not explaining it right or I am not answering the question properly. Or making you confused, you know? Sometimes I feel that way. And I am like: "There I go again - I am not making sense." I just felt like I didn't answer your question again. Did I answer you question (chuckles)? Do you know what I mean? Like if that is what I feel...
COUNSELOR: Why would you want to make me confused? Let us say that you are.
PATIENT: Confused?
COUNSELOR: Let us say that you want to make me confused. Let us just go with that for a minute. If part of what you are doing is an attempt to confuse me, why might you want to do that?
PATIENT: I am not aware that I want to confuse you. I am thinking that I wanted to really make you understand. I feel like I am not understood. So you could say: "Here, now that is not the way you feel." Or: "That is not how it goes - this is how it goes." And I say: "Oh yeah, that is right." You know what I am saying? Like if I give you all the information, you are going to want to jumble it.
COUNSELOR: So how are you confusing all of that? You are saying that you really want me to understand but somehow your fantasy is that...or your experience is...you are confusing...(15:00)
PATIENT: Well, I am afraid that I am going to confuse you. I am afraid that I am not making sense. Sometimes in my head it doesn't sound as if I am making sense. Even now - when am talking to people sometimes - when I am in the office and explaining a case or something, I feel like I am not making sense.
COUNSELOR: Well, let me tell you, for a minute, what my experience thus far with you is around that. And see if we can kind of work with that and see if we can be helpful. I am experiencing some confusion with what you are talking about tonight. For me, it seems to be stemming from you jumping pretty quickly from thought to thought. I think that we could stick with any one of those thoughts that you presented since you walked in the door tonight and have a lot to talk about.
But I get the sense that there is a lot that you are reacting to about being here that is just kind of, you know, comes spilling out when you walk in the door here or even perhaps on your way here on the train or whatever. And it just comes tumbling out. I am also wondering if part of that confusion that is thrown out in the middle of this might have, in some ways, have something to do with how much you want me to know about at this point. You say you want me to have clarity but people often have more than one motivation at the same time. I wonder if there might be something else going on with that as well.
PATIENT: I am not aware of anything.
COUNSELOR: Okay.
PATIENT: I really want to be clear. I do. I guess I am probably a little anxious or something but I am not aware of it right now. I don't want to confuse you. My awareness is more that I am confusing you because I feel like I baffle sometimes. (18:02)
COUNSELOR: It might be helpful for both of us if - rather than just marching on with whatever confusion we are feeling - we identify it and say something about it as soon as it happens. Because certainly if you feel confused or if you feel you are baffled, it is not going to be helpful for you. And t is not going to be helpful for me if I am confused. Perhaps we can break that down as it happens; look at it and see what it is about - what is there.
You mentioned that you read the paper on the elements of therapy - I am trying to find the right elements the book is somewhere here - and you mentioned the one on being self-critical. I wondered if there was anything else that you reacted to?
PATIENT: Well, I think that I have...you know, I taught about having pattern in my life. So I have become aware of the patterns that you may not be aware of and hopefully I will find them in my life - this relationship. I know in the past those patterns have affected me. They still do. I still have certain patterns that I cannot break at this point. Well, not that I cannot break them. It is that when they are happening, I am in it and I know it is a pattern and I have got to do something different but it seems like I am not able to. That is what I react to.
COUNSELOR: Can you give me an example of what patterns you are talking about? (20:44)
PATIENT: I think an example would be my relationship. What happened...in the past we use to fight a lot. We used to have arguments and it was very...there was a dynamic going on. She did have this rage. When this rage hits her, she just starts yelling. It doesn't even have to be me - it just starts coming out. And sometimes I react to it and the things that she says. It is very...just like it is projected and saying things about me that I do. Even though I know they are not true, I just react to it.
COUNSELOR: How do you react?
PATIENT: I get angry or sometimes I get like I want to hit her. Like I want to get violent.
COUNSELOR: Does that ever happen between the two of you?
PATIENT: It happened long time ago. Pushing could sometimes happen. It happened yesterday: a situation happened and she started that. It hasn't happened in a while. And I felt that feeling of getting in there. Like: "Shut up." I felt as if what she was saying wasn't true. I wanted to defend myself. I said a couple of things back but I didn't want to do that. Because the pattern will be just go in there and start and there will be a big fight and then we wouldn't talk for two days, three days. This time, after I said a couple of things, I was able to say: "I can't do this - I have to do something different." Finally, I said: "I am not participating in this." I went into the other room and that worked. But after I had said a couple of things. I did not want to say those things, you know.
COUNSELOR: Some hurtful things?
PATIENT: Well, they weren't nice. Not really hurtful things but just like I can't even remember them. They can't be too nice. So now with this feeling, I am angry. I am angry that she blew something out of proportion. I feel like I was set up for a fight. That is how I feel - I feel I was set up. And I feel really immature talking about this because it was such a silly fight.
COUNSELOR: Let us just stay with this for a minute because, you know. (24:00)
PATIENT: With what?
COUNSELOR: With what you are feeling right now.
PATIENT: Silly?
COUNSELOR: Well yeah, you started to tell me about how you are feeling; something that is going on for you - and what happened?
PATIENT: I felt silly. I feel like I am not supposed to feel this way at this age. It is always the same thing.
COUNSELOR: Would it be all right if you feel this way at...how old would you be to feel okay about this?
PATIENT: Eighteen - a teenager. Like I feel like I should be more mature. Shall I continue with this or shall I continue with the story?
COUNSELOR: Why don't you go on and tell me what is happening because it is bringing up a lot of feeling for you - I can see that.
PATIENT: Then, now I am angry and I fell like I don't want this. I feel like I want to end the relationship. It is never going to change: this is the way it is going to be. You feel hopeless but I say to myself...I am mad, I am angry that she yelled at me like that. I am angry about it. I don't know, I feel like as if I should do something. I just get really...I wish we were never back together.
COUNSELOR: It is what?
PATIENT: I don't know. I feel as if...like I don't want her to yell at me like that anymore. This has been a lot of times in our relationship. And when that happens I want to end the relationship. I want that to change - I want that not to happen anymore. It seems like once I want to put up my needs, it doesn't happen.
COUNSELOR: Because? I mean is this something that doesn't...what do you attribute it to when it doesn't happen? Why doesn't it change?
PATIENT: Why doesn't it change?
COUNSELOR: M-hmm.
PATIENT: Well, I think it is the right thing. She is under a lot of stress. She overworks and things like that, and then she brings the stress home. I think that... (27:04)
COUNSELOR: You lost your train of thought.
PATIENT: I think that...
COUNSELOR: Was there something about the way I questioned you just then or something about what I asked that interfered with your thinking on it? Were you aware of any kind of reaction to that?
PATIENT: Of what you said?
COUNSELOR: A-ha, because I could just see it in your face. You were telling me about how you felt about not wanting her to yell at you like that anymore. And when I asked you about her...when I asked you to get more specific about why it hadn't changed, I could see your face getting a little blank or holding back a little bit. I am just wondering if there is something in the question itself that you are responding to?
PATIENT: No, I don't think so. Why it hadn't changed - I really don't know why. She is in therapy. She is in her therapy. It seems like this rage got on core two or three years ago.
COUNSELOR: So you feel that the yelling - the rage - being expressed that way is something that keeps happening because of her?
PATIENT: She thinks probably every morning of her mother or something. I think that that brings stuff up. There is something that keeps coming in my mind and then goes out and I can't remember. You know love. The rage...I think she reminds me of my brother with that rage. That is probably why I react to her.
COUNSELOR: Tell me more about that.
PATIENT: Well, my brother used to yell all the time growing up. He would blame and attack verbally, you know. My household was very abusive - verbal abuse. And I was the youngest so it seemed like I got it from all of them. I always remember my brother yelling and blaming me for things that weren't even me. Oh I know what I was going to tell you: that after we would get into an argument - even though I didn't do anything to start the argument - like by the time the argument was over, I would feel like the whole thing was my fault. (30:12)
COUNSELOR: You are talking about with...?
PATIENT: Kendal. I feel like the whole thing was my fault - that I started it.
COUNSELOR: Well, you are talking past tense now. Are you talking about this argument you had yesterday?
PATIENT: Yeah, every argument. Every argument I have with her.
COUNSELOR: So you feel like the argument you had yesterday was your fault?
PATIENT: Right. After it got escalated the way it did, it came down to being my fault. Even though there is a part of me that knows it wasn't. She is yelling: "Yeah, you did this and look at what you did. You didn't have to do that." And by the time the argument is over, I am left there thinking it was my fault.
COUNSELOR: Is that what you believe right now?
PATIENT: Yeah.
COUNSELOR: So what did you do? What did you do that was your fault?
PATIENT: I came home...she called me in work and asked me...usually I don't see her on Monday night. She asked me to come home and we would go to this place shopping. I said: "Fine." I know on the way home I had an expectation. I guess the expectation was that she would have coffee ready. So when I got home, there were no lights on in the house and she was on the phone. It was like: "Didn't you know that I was coming home." So I had that. So I said: "Hold on." So I was in the other room and she was talking and waved off on the phone to whoever and I mimicked her. But I mimicked her to myself. It was just a mimic.
COUNSELOR: How were you feeling then?
PATIENT: I was feeling...I was annoyed she was on the phone.
COUNSELOR: Because?
PATIENT: Because I was home. Didn't she know what time I was coming home?
COUNSELOR: So she should be available?
PATIENT: All the lights should be on or whatever, yeah.
COUNSELOR: Okay.
PATIENT: So I mimicked her on the phone. I didn't do it bad. And the last thing I would have wanted her to do was to hear me but she heard me mimic her. Now I mimicked her, I was in the room and now that is what the whole thing was. Now, she got off the phone and she was like: "Did you mimic me? What did you just do?" Now she is demanding me to tell her why I mimicked her. And I said: "I am not participating in this." I am mad. She was being very aggressive. So it was: "I am leaving. You are not coming with me." So it was like I was going to be punished now. She thought it would be over in less than five or 10 minutes and out she storms and left me there. Of course, now I am saying: "Look at what I did. I did something so bad - I mimicked her." But then, I didn't mean for her to hear me. I feel silly telling you this. I feel like a little kid telling you this story. (33:43)
COUNSELOR: What just happened - just then?
PATIENT: I feel like I am a teenager telling, you know, a silly story. Like: "How old are you?"
COUNSELOR: I am wondering when you feel that way what would be helpful for me because it seems to interfere with you being able to relate
PATIENT: Maybe if you laughed.
COUNSELOR: If I laughed? That would be helpful?
PATIENT: Yeah, because I think it is just funny. It is funny.
COUNSELOR: Yet you are crying?
PATIENT: I am not crying. My eyes are red.
COUNSELOR: Do you have allergies or anything?
PATIENT: No, I think the (inaudible 34:38) - my tear duct. It has been watering all day. So when I got up today, I was angry - I was really angry. No matter what I did, it didn't warrant that kind of response. That she would be storming, screaming and yelling.
COUNSELOR: So what is the pattern there? Out of that, what do you identify as the pattern? You first told me the pattern was her yelling at you. But now you are telling me that somehow you participated in this?
PATIENT: Yes I guess I participated in it...but how? There are times I let things go. Why did she have to react to that? If somebody mimicked me, I wouldn't react that way. So I felt I was sort of set up for that because if she was in a better space, it would have meant nothing to her that I mimicked her.
COUNSELOR: What were you trying to communicate with the mimicking?
PATIENT: To her? I was just mimicking. (36:03)
COUNSELOR: Were you trying to communicate to her?
PATIENT: I don't know. Did you ever do something in a way without realizing that you are doing it? That is how that was.
COUNSELOR: You weren't aware that you were doing it?
PATIENT: Well I didn't say: "Okay, now I am going to mimic her." And then do it.
COUNSELOR: It just kind of came out of you spontaneously?
PATIENT: Yeah spontaneously.
COUNSELOR: How were you feeling at the time?
PATIENT: How was I feeling at the time? Annoyed. I was annoyed.
COUNSELOR: Would it be accurate to say that you were communicating your annoyance?
PATIENT: Yes, but I wasn't aware that I wanted her to hear it.
COUNSELOR: Were you aware of feeling annoyed at the time?
PATIENT: Yes. The day before she had an entire day of seminars. She came home and I had dinner ready. I guess I had an expectation that at least if I was coming home, she is home. Like coffee would be done or something. But I mean I came in and there were no lights on in the house. I was disappointed I guess. She gets home so much earlier than I do. She could have been on the phone with whomever she wanted to earlier in the day. She knows what time I get home. So that made me feel like I was set up.
COUNSELOR: Set up.
PATIENT: Yeah, because I think she knows that I would be, you know, expecting her. Usually she has coffee ready.
COUNSELOR: So you mean you think it was something that she purposely did to get a reaction out of you? Because of what you were saying earlier; that she has got this rage that she needs to express?
PATIENT: Yeah, like this rage and I think that all the stress she is under and the rage, it is like an outlet. She will start something. There have been many times that this has happened. This is just an example because it just happened. And then she just starts raging out. Like having this rage - screaming, yelling these things. (39:06)
COUNSELOR: What sorts of things does she scream?
PATIENT: "You will never change. You will always be the way you are. You did this. Who are you to mimic me? You are the one who started this fight. Now you are not coming with me." Then she gets very abusive. Like: "F*** you Will. Go f*** yourself." All these abusive things. And then I wanted to shut her up. I get to this feeling: "Who does she think she is talking to?" Then I get into it because the hook is there. I guess the connection is something with my brother. You know: "It is your fault that this fight started."
COUNSELOR: And you don't buy that?
PATIENT: That is it - I do.
COUNSELOR: You do buy it? You do think it is your fault?
PATIENT: Yeah. Her saying it is my entire fault. "Look, she left now - we were supposed to go out to dinner."
COUNSELOR: I'm not sure you really believe it is your fault.
PATIENT: I do.
COUNSELOR: What is your fault? What could you have done differently? What do you think could have prevented this?
PATIENT: If I had walked into the house happy and bubbly, didn't mimic her.
COUNSELOR: You would have walked in happy and bubbly about something that you were disappointed about?
PATIENT: Yeah.
COUNSELOR: Any other options there?
PATIENT: Any other options?
COUNSELOR: Given that situation. You walk in; you are disappointed by what you see happening or not happening?
PATIENT: I cannot picture it being any other way. I think I was set up. So no matter what I do, it will somehow always end up in a fight.
COUNSELOR: Well, it doesn't sound like you are saying: "No matter what I do." It sounds like you are saying your only other option was to be happy about something that didn't make you happy.
PATIENT: Or ignore it - totally ignore it. Go and put the lights on, make the coffee myself and then be annoyed. Get rid of an expectation. Like I don't feel that I would be able to communicate how I felt - disappointed that she didn't have the coffee on. (41:56)
COUNSELOR: You don't feel you would be able to communicate it?
PATIENT: No.
COUNSELOR: Why not?
PATIENT: What - avoiding a fight?
COUNSELOR: Yes.
PATIENT: But then she would have got annoyed with that. See I feel I was being set up. And that is what gets me angry because I feel that no matter what I do, I end up...
COUNSELOR: Have you tried the other way? Have you ever tried to communicate how you feel? At a time when you feel she is not managing, like me, to explode or whatever? Do you have data to back up your thinking there?
PATIENT: Yeah, sometimes I have said I was disappointed over something. I cannot give you a perfect example now but it ends up in a fight.
COUNSELOR: So it feels like - based on your experience - together that even if you were to communicate that directly it would still turn into a fight?
PATIENT: Right.
COUNSELOR: Okay.
PATIENT: I certainly feel like yesterday that no matter what, it would end up in a fight.
COUNSELOR: How did you end up feeling after she left?
PATIENT: Angry. I felt like: "I am not doing this anymore." We have had trouble in our relationship. It has been very nice lately but it is back to this. She is in her group and she is supposed to be venting her rage in the group or something. Or maybe can talk a lot or whatever. She is very angry with her mother and father. It has been fine lately but when this happens, then I feel it is not going to change. Like I don't want to hear this - I don't want to be in this anymore. I don't do it so I don't want it to be done to me. You know what I am saying?
COUNSELOR: What are you feeling just now?
PATIENT: I just really felt as if I am not being clear - am I being clear? I could get very angry over this because...
COUNSELOR: You could get very angry or you are? (44:47)
PATIENT: Well, I am angry. I am angry. This morning, usually I wake her up but I just like, I may have woke her up. When she got up she said: "I am sorry for yelling at you." And it is more than just the yelling. We make plans, I come home and then we were going to go out to dinner. Then she in her rage - it is like my night gets ruined. I could have made plans - I could have done whatever but I didn't. Not that the night was so bad last night - it wasn't - but it happens a lot or it has happened and I realized yesterday that I don't want that anymore and if it doesn't change...
COUNSELOR: So what do you feel you could do to change it?
PATIENT: I feel like I do a lot. I feel like I really did a lot on my part to change a lot of stuff that was going on in our relationship. I feel like I accept her moods - sometimes she is very moody - but I don't think she accepts mine. I am expected to be a certain way. What I can do is...I don't know what I can do - I think I have done a lot.
COUNSELOR: It seems like you are feeling kind of angry and hopeless about being able to apply some change there?
PATIENT: It is black and white with me. Like after this happened, I feel as if it is never going to get better. The relationship and stuff like that. We have been getting along real good lately but...I don't know.
COUNSELOR: But what?
PATIENT: I don't know. What do you instead of that? What I want to know is how do I not plug into that rage? It feels like I don't have a choice. If you were sitting at night in your pajamas, you can't leave the house. What do you do - go for a walk in your pajamas? Like, what is the tool? I don't know how not to plug into that. There have been times in the past I have become violent. We would end up pushing one another and wrestling or whatever and it would end up being my fault. (48:16)
COUNSELOR: I am a little confused about how you feel. At the same time, you are expressing that you feel last night was not your fault; you are also saying...you are identifying the problem as being you plugging into her rage. Is that what you feel? I am still not clear on what you feel was your fault in this interaction.
PATIENT: I don't really feel that any of it was my fault.
COUNSELOR: You don't really?
PATIENT: No. I mean I was in the house. I didn't do anything other than mimic her. That was enough - for her to hear. I mimicked the way she laughed - ha ha ha. I do know on some level that whatever I did...
COUNSELOR: Didn't warrant that kind of reaction?
PATIENT: Exactly.
COUNSELOR: Although it was a communication on your part - of your annoyance and underneath that, your disappointment.
PATIENT: I mean does that ruin an evening? But then by the time it was all over and the things she was saying, I felt it was my fault. "You are never going to change. You will always stay the same way." And then you think: "Yeah, I am no good. It is because of me this fight happened." she was happy until I came home.
COUNSELOR: It sounds like what you are saying then is it is not that you really believe you cause this but there is something that you hook into that kept saying it is your fault - but then confused it as you. And makes you feel that maybe it was?
PATIENT: Yeah, and it plugs into that critical thinking I have of blaming myself for things - being hard on myself. I am already doing it to me and if she says it, it is like right - it was my fault. I did that - she didn't do anything. I could have avoided this. I could have come in, I could have been nice, not shown my disappointment, not shown my... (51:26)
COUNSELOR: And yet you feel as if to do that would have been futile. Again, you are in a situation where you don't feel there are a lot of options there. Even if you had behaved and not mimicked or perhaps been more direct with her, you still don't feel as if that would have circumvented or prevented this interaction from happening?
PATIENT: Yeah and in the past that is how it has been with arguments and all - it would end up being my entire fault. She believes - she is well into in her own stuff- she has got her own problems that she is dealing with in therapy.
COUNSELOR: It is part of what you are kind of grappling with over this - how much is her stuff and how much is yours?
PATIENT: Yeah, like what is mine? Maybe what is mine? But still in a lot of many different ways, it does not warrant that kind of response. I think she overreacted. So that is what makes me say that I was set up. This has happened...
COUNSELOR: I think what is going to be helpful for us, okay, is - as much as possible - for us to really to pull apart your experience of these interactions. Perhaps even going back a few steps further to some parts about what your expectations were or whatever - as you already did - but looking even further in terms of what your hopes were that were then, kind of, crushed. Because Kendal is not here and we are not, you know...our job in here is not to sort out with the two of you together who is contributing to these arguments and these conflicts and in what way. I don't know her and I can't really be of help in that way but what I can be of help with for you is what exactly your experiencing and how you may or may not be - as you say - continuing to go for hooks that may have to do with her and also may have to do with you - carrying your own internal hooks. That is what is going to be important for us to explore in here - and for you outside of here since we are only meeting for a short period of time once a week - for you outside of here to do as much thinking about it as possible. (55:00)
PATIENT: I think I may have problems sticking up for myself. You know. So that is another...
COUNSELOR: Okay, all right. We are out of time. (55:22)
END TRANSCRIPT
