<b><center>MOTIVATIONAL INTERVIEWING WITH DR. WILLIAM MILLER</center></b>
<b><center>CLIENT 02 SESSION 01</center></b>
<center>______________________________________________________________________________</center>
<b>INTRODUCTION:</b>
William R. Miller, PhD, the originator of Motivational Interviewing, is Professor of Psychology and Psychiatry at the University of New Mexico and Director of Research for UNM's Center on Alcoholism, Substance Abuse &amp; Addictions. Dr. Miller has published 25 books and more than 200 articles and chapters on the treatment of alcoholism and other addictive behaviors.
<b>BEGIN TRANSCRIPT:</b>
THERAPIST: I understand you wanted to talk about how you'd use your time. Could you fill me in a little bit on maybe what you're life is like, your daily routine?
CLIENT: I'd like to stop. 
THERAPIST: You'd like to stop.
CLIENT: I'd like to stop. I'd like to stop working so I could learn to play. I've worked all of my life since I was a little kid, 18 years room and board. I learned to cook, and clean, and do all the laundry, and everything that it took to do, and I'm still doing it, and I'm 84 years old. 
THERAPIST: You've been a very responsible person for a long time. 
CLIENT: I want to stop that. I want to be a kid like I was when I dropped out. I became this kid, and I began to play, and do all this stuff that I never did before. I went to Hawaii and became a flower child. I took drugs. I did everything and danced, and had lovers, and did all this playing, and then it all stopped again. [0:01:04]
THERAPIST: You'd like to recapture some of that playfulness.
CLIENT: Yeah. I want to stop.
THERAPIST: Tell me what you imagine you'd be doing. What would that play look like?
CLIENT: What the play would look like? First of all I'd go live and get away from life just sitting there. I want to live in the country. (inaudible at 0:01:24). They know how to play there. 
THERAPIST: Very relaxed. 
CLIENT: Yeah. And change my method of living because I'm so entrenched in being a doer, and a completer, and taking care of everybody. I want to just change that. That's what I did when I moved to Hawaii. I just dropped doing anything and I went back to working. 
THERAPIST: So maybe you would take that big a change going to a whole different place where the lifestyle was different to get you to just settle down a little bit. [0:02:00]
CLIENT: That's right. And I feel like I've finally realized that I'm old, and I don't like it, and I know my time's limited, and I want to change that. I want to be able to not do because my time is close. I mean I'm running out of time so I want to begin to live differently so the rest of my years aren't being responsible for my kids, and my grandkids, and financial burdens, and illnesses, and their need of me. 
THERAPIST: Tired of taking care of people. 
CLIENT: It's not that I'm tired. I love it but I realize that it takes all my time. There isn't any time to go away because there's the response of the big house, and pets, and children, and they're grown up and gone. And I realize that the depression comes from, which I've fought with all my life, has to do with the fact that I'm always doing and not satisfying my inner child. [0:03:14]
THERAPIST: So with the time you have left, you'd like to really enjoy that time.
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: And not be so responsible for schedules and working all the time. 
CLIENT: Yes. I have a hard time sleeping because my mind is always working. How do I complete this before I go? How do I take care of all the things that need to be taken care of, or what am I going to do about daughter's illness, and what's happening to her? And with the financial situation that I've put myself into it's difficult. 
THERAPIST: It sounds like it's also quieting that inside, that noisy chatter that's there all the time.
CLIENT: I'm a perfectionist that has to finish and fix everything.
THERAPIST: (inaudible at 0:04:00). 
CLIENT: Yeah. Actually I'm a cancer, but I have a lot of vertigo in my chart too. [0:04:08]
THERAPIST: Oh, okay. Is moving to another country feasible for you?
CLIENT: Well it's on of the things I've always wanted to do. I traveled when I was 40 in a band for a year and half (inaudible at 0:04:22), and then I saw all of Europe and I loved it. And I love the way they live. I love the way their culture lives. The culture is different. They would work to play. They don't play to work. They play and work is part of their life, but the biggest part of life's not play. Enjoying their meals, and their families, and their walks, and their talks, and they have time. We don't have time. My life is about work, and acquiring, and security which there's no such thing. [0:05:09]
THERAPIST: That's the culture you live in here. This is probably one of the more intense work oriented parts of the country too. You're living in an environment that makes that more difficult. And moving somewhere else where life is more laid back, and people don't live just to work is part of that dream. 
CLIENT: Well it's how I change. I have changed my life many times. I divorced their dad and no one in my family or of that era... I was born in the depression era of European Sicilian parents and our lifestyle was that... My mother used to say a woman's born to serve and to suffer. She was a very depressed person, a very unhappy person who worked hard and never got any gratification for herself. And my father was a Sicilian male who didn't take care of her needs at all. And I grew up with that kind of environment. Then they married me off to some big dude. I didn't speak English until I went to school. My education was only seventh grade because my father didn't believe in educating women. So I come from a very servitude, suffering, semi-depression comes first from my mother being depressed all the time to my fighting depression most of my life. And I've gone to therapy. I've done a lot of research. I've done a lot studying; I've done a lot of meditations, scientific retreats for three months. I did a lot of things to change when my children left. [0:07:01]
THERAPIST: Right.
CLIENT: And the hardest part was when my daughter... I was a successful (inaudible at 0:07:09). When I left their dad, which was the hardest thing I've ever done, I took my four babies. I had never worked except in a factory while I was pregnant to pay for them. And I realized well she's growing big in the hospital that I had lived a life with my children and never enjoyed my children. I worked. I wanted them to have the best. I wanted them to have a nice home. I wanted them to be in the right neighborhood. I wanted them to have the right schools. I did everything to give them what I never had. Like we never stopped to think that the children only want us. And I spent 40 days in that hospital seeing her die and come back to life, you know coma, and finally the doctor said there's no chance. She survived. And she's the daughter that is a psychologist now who didn't walk, who couldn't swallow, who couldn't talk. And I take 40 years to tell her she could it before, she could do it now. And she survived and she became the person she is today. But during that period I realized what kind of a parent I was. I was the same parent my father was. I was abusive. I didn't give them me, and I didn't know who they were. I never saw them as individuals, just my children like my parents did. And I decided I didn't like who I was. I needed to change that. [0:09:00]
THERAPIST: So what did you do?
CLIENT: So I went into therapy. I started taking drugs. I had a friend a doctor, he was an anesthesiologist and he was into drugs, and he would give me these drugs, and watch what my behavior was like. And I began to smoke pot. I dropped out because with my daughter after four years of getting her back on her feet, I had sold my beach house, sold my home, sold all my furnishings, sold all my jewelry, had nothing left to pay for all her bills. And here I am at 40 something years old broke again so I think that's it I'm dropping out and moved to Hawaii because if I stayed there between my family and their drawing me to take care of them... Because I raised my sister. I took care of my parents while they were old. They passed away. I had to leave. I couldn't stay in that environment and change. [0:10:07]
THERAPIST: So that's somewhere you're thinking now changing the environment may make it easiest. 
CLIENT: Exactly, because I realize I could sleep. I have a hard time sleeping. I can only deal with my age is. 
THERAPIST: You mentioned depression several times. In what ways is that affecting you now? 
CLIENT: How it affects me?
THERAPIST: Yeah, what you experience. 
CLIENT: I can't sleep.
THERAPIST: Sleeping problems. 
CLIENT: I have to deal with always sitting and meditating and realizing that's just for now, that that will pass. I'm in therapy for it. I go to an acupuncturist so he balances my energy and fixes me for a period of time. And I go to chiropractors and get adjustments and balance my body so it's in balance. I do yoga. I started again doing yoga and Tia chi (inaudible at 0:11:12). It keeps me centered. And those are the things that I do. (inaudible at 0:11:21) going the other way just letting go and die. I have a sister that's doing that right now. I know she's going to pass away in a short time. She's now in a walker and I'm not... I don't know what holds me back to stay and continue to function. [0:11:49]
THERAPIST: There's something powerful here that does. There's some draw to a dream or a vision of some kind of what you want for yourself. 
CLIENT: I don't feel I'm done. 
THERAPIST: You seem quite healthy and energetic. 
CLIENT: I am. I walk four miles a day in an hour every day.
THERAPIST: Wow. Great.
CLIENT: I'm consistently strong and I guess my memory is strong too. But when I get in that space I lock myself up and do my best to pull myself out.
THERAPIST: Tell me about that space. It sounds like these are times when something changes and it's very difficult. [0:12:32]
CLIENT: Yeah, I had a discussion with two of my daughters (inaudible at 0:12:37) the day before yesterday, and they were putting down my other daughters, and I was trying to get them to see what she went through to do what she did. My father'd say the sins of the parents are inherited by the children, and I didn't know that when you see children with the issues that you carry and they're dealing with and they don't know. All I know is that I need to do enough therapy and enough work for 20 some years to try to first get them to trust me again and love me, and second to assist them to see without judgment how my daughter functions. This is my older daughter. How they judge her, and I didn't sleep all night. I'm so depressed that I couldn't sleep. [0:13:47]
THERAPIST: It was seeing yourself in her? 
CLIENT: Well I think it's more not seeing them loving her; understanding that a parent loves their children no matter what but they... 
THERAPIST: That's what you'd like to see accept the children as they are?
CLIENT: Yeah. And they all have a part of me that I don't like in myself. And I try to be who I am today to give them that kind of perspective without having to say anything because you can't. The children don't hear me. You're the parent. You don't know. You don't know anything like I didn't thing my parents would you know. I realized my father and mother's wisdom. [0:15:00]
THERAPIST: Your parents get smarter as you get older. 
CLIENT: Yeah. The children don't stay little. You get dumber. 
THERAPIST: So part of what was painful about that was seeing in her some aspect of yourself?
CLIENT: Absolutely, seeing the lacking of understanding because my daughter didn't have any children, and my other daughter had two unmarried. She's never married, never wanted marriage, neither did I actually, and always having support. She had me. When I left the children's father, my parents didn't talk to me for over a year. People crossed the streets so they wouldn't have to talk to me. 
THERAPIST: They closed you out.
CLIENT: Yeah, I was closed out. And I didn't have any support. And I struggled with the lack of education I had. My children were my support. They helped me be able to graduate and pass and get my real estate license. Without their help I couldn't have done any of it. I didn't have anyone I could turn to. When I left their dad, I just stepped into an American world that I didn't know anything about. [0:16:23]
THERAPIST: All alone in the world.
CLIENT: And I became so depressed that I'd come home and close the door and sleep. I so often thought about if it weren't for my kids probably would not have survived. I would take my life. There's nothing to do. 
THERAPIST: You've been through too many remarkable things in your life. You really are a survivor. And I'm trying to get hold now what it is you are looking for in your future. How would you like things to be different for you in a few years? [0:17:07]
CLIENT: Well to do that I'd need to leave the environment I'm in. 
THERAPIST: No, I'm certainly here for you. 
CLIENT: I know from my past experience that I don't change if I stay in the environment I'm in. 
THERAPIST: You're such a powerful woman. (inaudible at 0:17:26). If you stay in the same place, you know you don't change. 
CLIENT: No, no.
THERAPIST: In spite of all the things you've tried because you've obviously done quite a bit to work with yourself with the Tia chi, acupuncture, and therapy, meditation.
CLIENT: I still am.
THERAPIST: That's right. 
CLIENT: It keeps me sane. 
THERAPIST: Maybe that feels like vanity somehow in a difficult situation. 
CLIENT: Well I want to be physically strong. If I'm going to live in this body, I want it to be a perfect instrument, and one way I can keep it that way, and I've done this all my life, is to be physically fit. And I've done that. [0:18:12]
THERAPIST: It's turned out well now. 
CLIENT: I care about what I eat, I pay attention to what's going on in my body, and I take care of it because I want it to be a vehicle that functions. If it didn't function, I've got news for you, I wouldn't be here. It's very easy to get out of this world and out of this body so it wouldn't be very difficult for me to do it. And I've contemplated it many times. 
I was in an explosion that took seven years to get on my feet it was only the fact that I had the support of my husband, and the support of the knowledge that he thought, because I wanted to leave my body, I wanted out. I saved all the doctor's pills. My body was so badly damaged internally that they'd want to give me sleeping pills, and antidepressants, and all this stuff. And I'd say, “What's the side effect?” And they'd say, “Well, your liver, your kidney” and I'd go, “But they're already damaged from the explosion.” “How could you make me take them?” “I'll take them, okay.” So I'd get these prescriptions and save them all up. And when I asked Mack if he'd help me to get out of my body he said, “No, I won't do that.” He gave me six months we'll go other alternative work and see if in six months you're still the same, I'll help you. [0:19:44]
Well that's that time that I was injured. I was physically so damaged that when I finally got healthy again, I mean between Mack taking me in the water every day twice a day stretching me, and all the work I had to do to get physically well... It wasn't that he was there because none of my children came. And I finally decided okay, we'll do this. Well then my depression was so excruciating, and I'd stopped functioning the way I did before. I stopped sitting. I stopped meditating. I stopped doing exercises. I stopped yoga. I stopped doing everything. I was angry; internally so angry that for some stupid thing I was physically a mess again. And that period of time I lost the momentum of the life that I led in Maui in Hawaii. My husband wanted to come to visit me in Hawaii, and he wanted to begin his own business. So I became real estate investment broker said sure. I'll see what you've got. We'll make it want you want. And in doing that the last 15 years I've worked as hard, and he's worked as hard. That's it. We've become workaholics. We don't go to the beach anymore. We'd swim in it everyday three miles. I could run. I quit doing all of that. [0:21:44]
THERAPIST: So you're feeling now like it's really time to stop that. 
CLIENT: And I've never felt I was old. I was always saying when I get old. I had a stroke two years ago. It was a very minor thing but it was a wake up call for me. You're not young anymore. Look in the mirror. You're an old bag. Do something. This is not the life you want to lead. And two years ago I'm still trying to do it. [0:22:13]
THERAPIST: What stands in your way? 
CLIENT: My acupuncturist is the best and I've had a lot. He said to me the problem with your body is your spirit is behind. You're not doing what you want to do with your life. What do you want to do? And I said to him I want to leave all this responsibility. He says, “Well go out and do it.” So the first thing I did is I sold all the properties we had except the house. And then he wanted me to escape. I decided since we're going to have all this money we're pay our house off so we don't have a debt, and we'll invest our money in our children buying places. So I bought my daughter, Gina, a building. She's got an investment in. My grandson, my other grandson, and my daughter, and my other daughter and all the money went. [0:23:22]
THERAPIST: Into realty.
CLIENT: And then I had to be responsible for all the paperwork, and all the little things I had taken care of, and I'm still doing because it's not done. 
THERAPIST: So that wound up being a trap too.
CLIENT: Yeah. So why am I not gone? I have to remodel the unit downstairs because of the times if we have to sell it. It'll bring more than we paid for it otherwise we'll lose money. And then I won't be able to get Mary Jean what she needs or may need. I'm right back where I started. 
THERAPIST: It's the same pattern. 
CLIENT: Yes. And so I say how do I stop this? How do I stop taking care of too many... 
THERAPIST: Everyone else. [0:24:15]
CLIENT: But I'm at a loss of how to do it without... So that's why I get depressed. I put not only myself but my husband in the same trap. 
THERAPIST: You're both stuck. 
CLIENT: Yeah, I'm stuck. Murray said God Regina, why don't you (inaudible at 0:24:48) too? You're taking care of everybody and they still won't listen to me and do what I want you to do. 
THERAPIST: What did he want you to do? 
CLIENT: Yeah. 
THERAPIST: What you want to do is get out from under all the responsibility and with the time you have left have a better life, a more relaxed life. You want to play a little. [0:25:16]
CLIENT: And Maui's become a working place which it wasn't before Mack came into my life. 
THERAPIST: So that probably wouldn't be enough of a change. 
CLIENT: No. I love Maui. I love Mack. They've been good to me. Without them I'm nothing.
THERAPIST: (inaudible at 0:25:41).
CLIENT: Well I guess it's the culture. They work hard but they play hard. I mean they go to work in the morning, and they quit at 11:30, 12:00. They have a three hour siesta of food and playing with people. (inaudible at 0:26:02). And then they have their siesta. They sleep or they take walks. They do something. And then they come back to work at 3:00 and they work till 7:00 and then they do these walks. They visit people. Their life is simple. They can have time to argue, and fight with each other, and make up. They have time to play. They take vacations and it's not a matter of how much time. They live differently. I've spent enough time. I've spent a year and a half traveling through Europe. And the reason I loved Morocco the best was because they the least. And they understand each other. Even though women are treated differently women have a wonderful life there. [0:26:56]
THERAPIST: It seems like that life that you wanted there's no way to do it here. No way to work a while and then have your siesta.
CLIENT: There's too... I've created in my own home (inaudible at 0:27:13). And I have a high maintenance garden. I'm a gardener. It's incredible but it takes a lot of time which I love doing. But on the other hand it's all I do. I take care of my home. I take care of my kids. I take care of my business. I take care. And I have pets. I have cats, I have a dog, I have ponds, foundations that all need maintenance. I don't know how to live otherwise. I think that if I leave and I go away, which I did when I moved to Hawaii. [0:28:04]
THERAPIST: I was going to say you have lived other ways.
CLIENT: I know how to live other ways, but to do that I can't be responsible for anything or anyone. And that's hard for me because I'm a giver, I'm a doer, I'm a cancer. I love to take care of people. I love to do gardening and all of that. On the other hand when I didn't have that when I lived in Maui, I took care of a garden. I had an acre. It had landscaping, meditation places. It was very calm. But I could leave it. I opened my house to a communal household and I gave them all the chores. You take care of this fountain; you take care of this part of the grounds. You have to sweep this. And then I go. But I don't do that when I'm responsible for it. It wasn't my place. It was someone else's place. I didn't have any fix. I didn't have any rental. I didn't have anything. All I did was play. [0:29:09]
THERAPIST: There's two different kinds of life that you love.
CLIENT: Yes.
THERAPIST: I mean obviously you love to be needed, given yourself to this life of taking care of others, working, and gardening, and so forth. That's been something you love doing. And you also love not being responsible. Those two don't fit together very well. 
CLIENT: No I don't know how to blend the two. I can't seem to be able to do that. 
THERAPIST: And the Italians seem to be able to do that?
CLIENT: Well it's not just that. Leaving what I know to something that I don't know not being responsible for the home I'll be in, although I'll take care of it better than they would, that relieves me so I don't have to see what's going on over here. This one needs that, that one needs this. At home this one needs that, that one needs this. [0:30:08]
THERAPIST: It's not yours to take care of. 
CLIENT: Yeah. When I lived in Hawaii on my own, I had no one I was responsible to or for. I left that all behind. If they contacted me I gave them myself. But if they didn't I didn't worry about them. I didn't think about them. I didn't concern myself with their needs. They didn't want me anyway. I was working on making myself the kind of person that they would be able to trust and love again because they didn't and my kids have (inaudible at 0:30:41). I was an abusive mother. I was a loving mother. They were my whole life but they didn't know that. I never went anywhere they didn't go with me. I never dated. I went wherever my children went. If they needed me... If I was going anywhere, they were with me. I left them and I'd go running back and forth from work to make sure that they were taken care of. In Hawaii I didn't have that. I didn't have to think about them. They were glad not to have me around. Until they start seeing me as a different person and working towards trusting me and loving me again. Trusting that they could love me and I wouldn't lose that. [0:31:27]
THERAPIST: Well it's like these are two extremes. Either the responsibility's on or it's off. The first thing you said was I want to stop just to turn all this off and to have a lifestyle now that is completely different free of all this responsibility, or the one that you've got now which is full of responsibilities. Nothing in between.
CLIENT: I don't know how to be in between. I don't know how...
THERAPIST: It's either on or off. [0:32:06]
CLIENT: Yeah. Maybe it's more on than it's off. 
THERAPIST: It sure sounds like it. 
CLIENT: I think that when I get depressed it's because I'm off, and I realize how do I do this. I don't want to be so concerned and worried. I'm so worried about my oldest daughter right now I can't sleep. You never stop being a parent. 
THERAPIST: Yeah. It's not a job that goes away. 
CLIENT: No. And they've been my whole life. When I sold everything gone all I wanted to do was give them security. The security I worked for and that I did by myself. And I just don't know how to change it. I don't know how to be balanced; how to find the balance. [0:33:17]
THERAPIST: That might be nice to have some of each of the worlds that you love.
CLIENT: Yes. I not only put myself but I put them also in a financial bind. I'm here trying to give them security. I put them also in a financial bind. 
THERAPIST: Something you didn't intend.
CLIENT: No I didn't intend to do that. I'm a good business woman. I'm really good at what I do, but I didn't, I don't know, look ahead. I should've done that more carefully. [0:34:10]
THERAPIST: With the market you mean?
CLIENT: Well no. The market won't hurt them. I'm good enough to know that that won't hurt them. But I need to do things to make it more secure. 
THERAPIST: You need to? 
CLIENT: Well they won't have the wherewithal financially to do it. 
THERAPIST: So that's your responsibility?
CLIENT: Well I've taken it on. It's either that or it could all be lost. 
THERAPIST: Which you don't want.
CLIENT: No, not for them. I don't care I started once and started here... When I started after Mary Jean's illness I was broke. I didn't have anything. I moved to Hawaii with nothing but the clothes on my back. 
THERAPIST: You started over. 
CLIENT: Yeah. And I lived like a child. It was the first time in my life where I didn't have any responsibilities, and I loved it. [0:35:14]
THERAPIST: You love that life too. 
CLIENT: Yeah. I loved my life period. I just suffered. Maybe I've picked up my mother's idea that life's about suffering. 
THERAPIST: Hmm. 
CLIENT: I don't know. I don't know. 
THERAPIST: I wonder if before we talk the next time you'd be willing to try something. I brought along with me a little set of cards that describes things that tend to be important to people's values that people have. And if you're willing, what I'd like to do is just take half an hour or so and I'll show you how to do it. As you sort those really think about which of these are most important for you now at 84 in your life? That changes over the course of life and what's important in one decade is less important in another decade. Just get a littler clearer on what matters most now. If you'll do that, we could talk about that some more the next time. And I think that might be really helpful in where you seem to be stuck in at the moment. Would that be all right? [0:36:32]
CLIENT: Yes. 
THERAPIST: All right. I'll get those and show you how to do that. It's not hard. It's something you'll understand. And then if you'll bring those back, we can talk about that next time. 
CLIENT: Okay.
THERAPIST: What I hear so far in delaminate is you're torn between these two lives that seem incompatible. One of them is the life you had in Hawaii, the very laid back and relaxed no responsibilities, nothing I have to take care of, just enjoy the moment, and the life, and the sea and so forth. And this other life that you've been very good at and you also loved you said which is taking care of things, being successful, taking care of your children, giving them things that you would like them to have, caring for your garden, and so forth. And those two visions don't seem to come together so you're drawn between the two of them sort of flopping back and forth. I wish I were just in the other of that. I wish this could just turn off, and I could own my other life again which is a hard place to be. You've been struggling with this quite a while I gather. [0:37:52]
CLIENT: About three years I've been thinking about it. 
THERAPIST: And really have a sense that it's time to move on.
CLIENT: And when I had that whatever it was that happened to me I just realized that my time here is short. I'm on the other end of the cycle which is fine. But I view it as a problem. It's finishing what I wanted to finish. I'll get done so that I could say okay, I've done it, it's over, I'm ready to go and do my own thing. So when Mary Jean got put on the plane I was devastated not knowing what I was going to do with my life. I sent her to my brother in Germany. And I realized I don't have a life. My life's been my kids. And it took me two weeks of depression sitting home locked up to realize that I didn't like me, I didn't like what I had seen about myself, I'd taken a (inaudible at 0:39:00) and it took me out of my body and when I was coming back into it I realized that I hated that thing that was me. And I made up my mind I was going to change it. I spent 20 years in therapy, and workshops, and seminars, and books, and spiritual teachers to do that. And then I come to this point and I say it's over. You've got to change what you're doing so you can be for yourself. [0:39:37]
THERAPIST: That's what I want to talk about what's most important now. With the life that you have left, what is most important to do? So that's what we'll talk about next time. I'll get that for you. Here's what I was talking about. This is a set of cards and I just want you at home to think about them, put them into three piles, those are important to me, those are very important to me, so these are the most important ones, and those that are not particularly important to me, and those end up (inaudible at 0:40:17). If you can, just figure out which of the things are really most important to you now. [0:40:26]
Okay, let's start that whole section again real quick, and Mike if you can stop down for a second. 
MODERATOR: So I'll have a roll of extra footage. 
THERAPIST: Okay. We're rolling?
MODERATOR: We're still on one.
THERAPIST: So here's what I mentioned to you. This is a whole set of cards that describe lots of different kind of things that may be important or may not be important to people. And what I'd like you to do at home is take a little time and just sort them into three piles. These are the titles of the piles, a pile that's very important, a pile that's important, and a pile that's not particularly important to you at this time in your life. Some of these may have been very important a while ago but now from here forward in your life they may not be. So what's most important now? So you can just go through these. Each one has one word on it and a little explanation under it, for example, acceptance, to be accepted as I am. Just kind of sort of them through and you'll find that some of them aren't particularly important now. But I'm interested especially and we're talking about which are the ones that seem the most important. [0:41:39]
CLIENT: Do I need to write them or something?
THERAPIST: Just bring them back. If you can put them in little paperclips or a little rubber band around the piles so when you come back you'll have a pile that says very important to me, and a pile that says important, and a pile that says not important. And just keep the three piles separate with either paperclips, or rubber bands, or something that will do it. And then I think we'll have you take the next step when we talk again the next time. [0:42:11]
CLIENT: So do I need to bring these back?
THERAPIST: Bring them back please either paper clipped or with a rubber band around them in the three piles that you've chosen. Does that seem clear?
CLIENT: I'll do my best. 
THERAPIST: I'm sure you will. I'll put a rubber band around them now. And just take those along (inaudible at 0:42:39) and I'll see you next time. 
<b>END TRANSCRIPT</b>
