TRANSCRIPT OF AUDIO FILE:
______________________________________________________________________________
BEGIN TRANSCRIPT:
THERAPIST: No time like the present. Now you just forget that's there and be totally cool. (pause) So you were saying how you would like to be able to have more flexibility, before I interrupted you.
CLIENT: Actually I talked to Linda about this because I went and saw her....last week.
THERAPIST: Oh that's right, because you had been worried.
CLIENT: Yeah, I mean it was just our regular appointment every month or whatever it is. But the last time I had seen her I had been worried I guess about how I was going to feel once I started to feel more stable. (chuckle) I don't think she thought that my being really exhausted and not able to concentrate for a week was necessarily related to the drugs. (pause) I don't know. She really didn't have much of an explanation for that. [00:00:51]
But I told her I was feeling really normal, like myself lately (chuckle) which is not what I expected and she told me that was common, that she saw it a lot, and that people just ended up feeling like their old selves (chuckle) as opposed to some less anxious person.
THERAPIST: Well your normal self was less anxious, when you think back to high school.
CLIENT: Well it's super anxious but not in a problematic way, which I realize now I guess. (chuckle) And it's sort of a bummer because now I'm aware of it.
THERAPIST: Now it feels problematic.
CLIENT: Well it's not problematic it's just...I don't know. I guess I do wonder if it's problematic. (pause) (chuckle) Josh's mom [is now living with us permanently] (ph) and I think about mentioning it.
THERAPIST: Oh, is it really? I mean, I know it's been longer than you expected. Is it really permanent?
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: She's not looking for another place?
CLIENT: No. She says she's going to save up money, buy a condo, and live on the first floor or the second floor, because of her dream. But I don't know. She's going to give us rent and Josh is going to pay off his loans. [00:02:01]
THERAPIST: Yeah so I remember you saying that. I didn't know if it was permanent. I thought that was like for a while, for now. But it's going to be forever.
CLIENT: (chuckle) It's alright. We get the whole apartment and she has a room basically. (chuckle) And I couldn't leave without battling (ph) this past weekend. We were building furniture, rearranging things, and she's just very calm and takes her a while to get things settled. 
THERAPIST: A very different pace.
CLIENT: Need to get things finished. (pause) I won't be able to stop thinking about it unless I do...
THERAPIST: Right.
CLIENT: I went to the temple on Sunday night with my parents and half way through the sermon I forgot...I completely had no idea what he was talking about. All I was thinking about was the furniture. (chuckle) It's just unbearable! That's normal for me I guess. Not normal compared to other people especially.
THERAPIST: Not to be able to let it go. As soon as you get something in your head then it's really hard to let it go. Which is what (overlapping voices).
CLIENT: Which is what causes problems with something like my boyfriend being really sick. Whatever. [00:02:56]
THERAPIST: Yeah, it's not a thing you can finish and wrap up and be done with.
CLIENT: Right. Which has always been a good thing for me because I am (pause) very efficient but it takes up (inaudible). (chuckle)
THERAPIST: It works really well at school.
CLIENT: Yeah it works well in school.
THERAPIST: And maybe that's why in high school it wasn't problematic because it was always under your control to be able to grab on to whatever it was—whether it be an assignment or a project—get it done, move on.
CLIENT: Yeah. (inaudible) guess I'm just going to know and hope that...I still don't know what I'm going to do if something terrible ever happens again that I have to constantly worry about. (chuckle) I don't know what I'll do. Maybe this workshop will help.
THERAPIST: Well I think DBT being one...DBT is very skills focused. That group is particularly skills focused, kind of the point of it. And I think for you, you kind of have to learn a way to tolerate that anxious feeling when you can't (pause)...when it's not in your control, when you can't finish it and be done with it and move on. How do you learn to tolerate that uncomfortable feeling without it completely prohibiting you from moving on with life and the daily activities of life, like sleeping and being able to go out with friends? And right now you don't really have a way to do that so when something comes up (pause) it totally knocks you off kilter. And when things are okay—like you had a good week last week and you had a good week this week, except for that one terrible night—you're okay. [00:04:39]
CLIENT: Right, and that's just normal life being pretty intense but not (pause) I don't know, bad.
THERAPIST: Right, intense you can handle.
CLIENT: Right.
THERAPIST: But bad is really not manageable right now.
CLIENT: Yeah, I guess. I mean, I don't know.
(pause)
THERAPIST: Yeah I think learning how to soothe yourself with something other than completion and learning how to tolerate a certain level of not being able to be soothed are the things that are going to make a big difference. And for some people they come more naturally. You didn't have a lot of chances to practice those and they don't come naturally for you.
CLIENT: Right.
THERAPIST: So using the night that you couldn't fall back to sleep as an example—because I think that's sort of a perfect example of what happens when something gets in your way that you couldn't fix—like you couldn't make him appear at that moment and by the time you did come back you were already probably so worked up that you couldn't soothe yourself and go back to sleep. [00:05:48]
CLIENT: Yeah, he was telling me what had happened about the whole the frame (ph) crisis thing.
THERAPIST: And when you were listening to him what was going on for you?
CLIENT: Well then I start thinking about it's a...he always seems to be friends with other girls. This other girl [basically and her boy problems] (ph) and I'm friends with her too. And we had actually just been out with the two of them, her and her boyfriend. And so I just start thinking about gosh, how I felt they seemed happy at the (inaudible) and (inaudible) talk to her (chuckle) because she thinks that I'm so happy and so perfect. I'm not! And I just start thinking about all this.
THERAPIST: So what's going on in your head?
CLIENT: Wanting to solve her problems, or help her.
THERAPIST: How would you do that? [00:06:37]
CLIENT: How? I don't know. (pause) First of all tell her that my life isn't so great.
THERAPIST: Is that a big piece of it is that she thought her comparison to you and her...?
CLIENT: Oh I imagine. [I wasn't there] (ph) but...yeah I don't know exactly. (pause) And also her seemingly desperate desire to have this perfect relationship as opposed to just relaxing (chuckle) (pause) which I totally understand (pause) but never really works, in my opinion. (pause) I don't know, I mean it sounds like she's having a pretty classic life crisis of, "What am I doing? What am I doing? Everything always goes wrong." (inaudible)
THERAPIST: How much do you identify with that? [00:07:33]
CLIENT: Oh, like 100 percent! It happens to me all the time (laughter) on varying levels! (pause) Yeah, it's the same personality of thinking about stuff really too much and taking things super seriously and not being able to relax (chuckle) and have fun. 
THERAPIST: So you can imagine that...or not just imagine but you can completely identify with... (overlapping voices)
CLIENT: Yeah, I know she doesn't have a sleep problem but...
THERAPIST: But she's clearly not happy if people are running up to soothe her in the middle of the night.
CLIENT: (chuckle) Well actually we were at dinner with her and her boyfriend and then they were trying to get me...or Josh and Julia, the girl, were trying to get the other two of us to stay out and continue [the date] (ph). But I was not going to do that (chuckle) because I was exhausted. (chuckle) And neither was the other guy so the two of them went from this apparently happy dinner to her falling to pieces and being miserable for the next three hours (pause) which I guess she wasn't comfortable doing probably even with me there. [00:08:41]
THERAPIST: What is your relationship like with her?
CLIENT: Well she's in Josh's program, so it was through Josh and I see her at the forum nights and the four of us or three of us hang out. Not really, we don't really have a relationship, just a friendly acquaintance. I hear about her all the time. (chuckle)
(pause)
THERAPIST: What did Josh make of it? So it got you really sort of revved up.
CLIENT: Well he always seems to be friends with girls because it seems like—and I told him I think this is the case and he agrees—that he judges guys more harshly and it takes a lot...he's always complaining that he can never find anyone who he wants to be friends with. Because a guy...none of them are ever good enough. (chuckle) He seems to judge girls less harshly and I'm sure they both have explanations for that. [00:09:35]
But anyway...what was I just answering?
THERAPIST: How it affected him versus how it affected you.
CLIENT: Well, so he's complaining about how he had to listen to her complain about this over and over and over again and I told him it's his fault for being friends with a girl. (laughter)
THERAPIST: He didn't get upset. He got frustrated with having to hear about it but not upset in the same way you got upset.
CLIENT: Right, and that she wouldn't take his advice to just break up with the current guy she was with and just relax and that life was going to be fine and she's not going to (pause)...she's going to be fine.
THERAPIST: So a very different emotional reaction from what you experienced hearing about it?
CLIENT: Yeah, I mean I think he's going to be listening to me for three hours at this point, because at some point he tells me he can't take it anymore. (chuckle)
THERAPIST: What's that like for you when he reaches his limit?
CLIENT: I mean, it's both good and really frustrating. (pause) I don't go on and on as (pause) much as a lot of my friends would. (chuckle) (pause) No, it's good.
THERAPIST: How is it good? How is it...can you say more about how it's good and how it's frustrating? [00:10:41]
CLIENT: Well it's frustrating because it's super abrupt.
THERAPIST: Is it?
CLIENT: And you can tell it's not "You should stop because this is counterproductive." It's just, 'You should stop because I can't take it anymore," which is different, which is what is more hurtful about it.
THERAPIST: Oh, so it feels hurtful.
CLIENT: And then I have to tell him that he should say something nicer so that I'll stop without getting upset at him. (chuckle) But it's good because I tend to just go over and over (pause) the problem. Like my dad, he's so super paranoid. (chuckle)
THERAPIST: What happens for you when you talk about what's bothering you?
CLIENT: Well I end up working it out myself basically which is, I think why girls stereotypically—maybe I should not say this (chuckle)—but do that kind of thing. Maybe guys do too. [00:11:29]
THERAPIST: So [then it does] (ph) feel really helpful to you for you to talk through it.
CLIENT: Yeah, definitely.
THERAPIST: So being told to stop in the middle of your process...not only is it hurtful because you feel like he doesn't really want to hear it anymore but it sounds like it's also hurtful in that for you it doesn't feel like you're just going over and over something. It feels really productive. 
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: Do you know...is there...do you know what his limit is? Can you tell?
CLIENT: Oh yeah, I can definitely tell. It depends on if I try in the morning or at night.
THERAPIST: Ah! The conversations are always better in the morning from what you've said before.
CLIENT: Yeah, yeah. Definitely. (pause) I mean it's fine, he does (pause)...he's not very concise when he tells me that stuff which drives me crazy because he says everything in far too many words and it drives me crazy. When he writes, when he does...I'm like, "I'm an scientist. Can't you say things in one sentence?" He cannot give an elevator speech to save his life about what's wrong or what he does or anything. (chuckle) So then I do the same thing to him, just cannot (chuckle) get to the point. But if he's not talking about his problems he's... [00:12:47]
THERAPIST: So for you it really depends what you're talking about.
CLIENT: Yeah, I mean if you ask him about his research be prepared for a half an hour speech. (chuckle) It just drives me insane. So you know, (pause) I recognize that about him and (inaudible). I mean I don't think it's really a problem, the way he reacts to me. (pause) That's why I need to get more girlfriends. (chuckle)
THERAPIST: You have different roles for different things. So what's important for us to talk about today?
CLIENT: Gosh, I don't know! (pause) I don't know. I'm still not having problems that are immediate. I don't know if I should be thinking about trying to fix things or just not think about it at all and just let it mean (ph) pretty much good. [00:13:51]
THERAPIST: So if you're not having a problem that's immediate, what's going on underneath that? Actually let's step back. Instead of thinking what's going on let's think about how you are. So if you were going to judge your overall mood on the one to ten scale—have you used that scale before?
CLIENT: No.
THERAPIST: Okay, so ten...we're going to make ten the best that you've ever felt ever in your entire life and one the most miserable that you've ever been in your entire life. It doesn't matter how miserable other people are or how great other people might feel. This is just your scale. So ten: awesome; one: horrible. Where are you at this very moment?
CLIENT: Probably like a seven.
THERAPIST: So that's pretty good.
CLIENT: That is pretty good, yeah!
THERAPIST: So what does a seven feel like to you? [00:14:44]
CLIENT: Well I'm not perfectly happy because I'm stressed out (chuckle). There are lots of things happening that are causing me to worry—not worry—but think about them a lot.
THERAPIST: So it feels like thinking a lot.
CLIENT: Not a vacation! (laughter)
THERAPIST: So ten would be a vacation?
CLIENT: Not recent vacations.
THERAPIST: But an imagined vacation?
CLIENT: An imagined vacation, yeah.
THERAPIST: So what I heard today is the thinking about a lot of things and there's stuff that's going on that's stressful but you're not worried about it. That's what I heard you say. Does that feel accurate?
CLIENT: I mean, I'm worried about it if worrying is thinking about stuff all the time constantly and complaining.
THERAPIST: Well how would you know? How would you know what's worry and what's thinking about it constantly and complaining? What are you complaining about? [00:15:45]
CLIENT: What am I complaining about? (chuckle) Well I guess I don't have any problems that I'm definitely trying to solve right now. Problems are being solved, which is good.
THERAPIST: Like the money, is that what you're referring to?
CLIENT: The money. Even Josh's health, like he's being a good patient and not having crises all the time about not being able to be sexual anymore.
THERAPIST: Okay. So you feel like things are smoothing out.
CLIENT: Yeah, no one in my family has died recently. (chuckle) 
(pause)
THERAPIST: So it feels pretty easy to put on the back burner that kind of big, looming question about Josh's health and your relationship. So when things are going well that question just goes somewhere. Where does that go? Like that question that was so...
CLIENT: Blind hope I guess! (chuckle) That it's all fine! (chuckle) That it will continue to be fine. [00:16:44]
THERAPIST: Is that what it feels like?
CLIENT: Yeah, I guess at the moment.
THERAPIST: So it's not comfort but blind hope.
CLIENT: Yeah, I mean I don't know why the fact that he's not perfectly normal and healthy but it doesn't bother me at the moment I guess because we're not in a crisis mode where we've gone to the hospital all the time and he's not in atrial fibrillation or anything. The doctors are happy.
THERAPIST: So you feel happy.
CLIENT: Yeah, and he's very happy which is good.
(pause)
THERAPIST: So I wonder if we could call that comfort?
CLIENT: Yeah, I think so.
THERAPIST: It sounds like right now you're comfortable with where things are.
CLIENT: Yeah, we're not trying to do anything that really depresses him either, or me doing it with him.
THERAPIST: Are you okay with that? 
CLIENT: Yeah!
THERAPIST: Or I guess I should say how are you with that? 
CLIENT: Good! It's fine. (chuckle) (pause) I mean mostly right now I just want to do school since that's really fallen off. [00:17:52]
THERAPIST: And how are you doing with school? Second weekend? Third weekend?
CLIENT: Good! Yeah, I mean I had sort of a crisis with my advisor. I think I told you he was e-mailing me when I was at that hotel and I was like, "I'm not going to sleep!" And I did, just fine! So thank God school has never been a problem, causing me a problem. Actually there may be one time when I took a test really late at night but I don't think that was really it. I think I just wasn't sleeping. (chuckle) If school started causing me problems I don't know what I would do.
THERAPIST: So that feels like it's going well. You're focusing on that.
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: What are you constantly thinking about? You said constantly thinking but not obsessing.
CLIENT: Well I mean this past week it was how are we going to fit Josh's mom in and deal with all of that.
THERAPIST: So it was like the project of the week.
CLIENT: And if I should really be allowing it. Yeah, project of the week. I mean it seems like it should cause me more stress and it hasn't. I think I told you that last time. [00:18:49]
THERAPIST: Yeah, you're continually surprised by how not stressed out you are.
CLIENT: She just keeps fixing things and making everything better! (chuckle)
THERAPIST: She's handy!
CLIENT: She's very handy, yeah. (pause) Hopefully it will stay that way.
THERAPIST: Yeah, so if it's not a problem why should you be stressed out about it?
CLIENT: Well I was hoping that my desire for Josh to pay off his loans wasn't getting in the way of rational thought of why would I let another person into this tiny apartment? Well, not tiny, but apartment, just seems nuts. 
THERAPIST: Is there enough room for all of you or do you feeling like you're tripping over each other?
CLIENT: No, there's enough room, definitely.
(pause)
THERAPIST: So it seems like it could be a good solution.
CLIENT: Yeah. It just seems like it shouldn't be but it is. It is. [00:19:44]
THERAPIST: So I wonder what that message is. You have some "should" there, that this is not supposed to be okay.
CLIENT: Well we're not married. (chuckle) She's not my mother-in-law. She's just my boyfriend's mother. If anything did go awry it would just get even more complicated and more messy.
THERAPIST: So it's your worry that something might go wrong and it's going to get more complicated.
CLIENT: Well it's almost like I shouldn't have moved in with Josh until I was ready to deal with whatever came along. He got super sick and I shouldn't have committed to handling it before I (inaudible) I think. That was a mistake.
THERAPIST: So are you feeling a similar way about having his mother move in?
CLIENT: Yeah, I guess! Like what could go wrong that I should be prepared for and if I'm not then I should not do this. I don't really know exactly, because at least if something goes wrong she's there. Josh always said that if she were around when he was really sick that she would have been in the hospital with me all the time and that would have been nice. [00:20:44]
THERAPIST: Yeah you were looking for someone to be supportive.
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: Someone to help you support him and someone to be supportive of you.
CLIENT: And he's promised me that if anything does happen again he'll call my parents immediately and say, "You really need to come." And his mom's there (ph). That's good.
(pause)
THERAPIST: So I'm wondering how comfortable you feel. It sounds like logistically it makes sense—she's fixing stuff, she's making the apartment better, there is a way to make everyone fit, she's helping Josh pay off his loans by paying some rent to him. Logistically it all makes sense. But it sounds like there's some part of you that it doesn't really make sense to.
CLIENT: Well I mean I'm still a little too polite around her. Like if I need to do work I'm not going to tell her to get lost (chuckle) when she's trying to chat with me about the latest things she wants to fix or her work or something. So I need to be able to do that to feel really comfortable. [00:21:44]
THERAPIST: So there's a piece that doesn't feel comfortable in your own home.
CLIENT: Yeah because I can't escape her without being (pause)...I don't know. I'm still trying to be really, really nice to her because I'm still not...
THERAPIST: So you're still on best behavior?
CLIENT: Yeah, which is a little odd in my own apartment. But I think that (pause) that will hopefully get better.
(pause)
THERAPIST: Have you talked with her about (pause) what's the (pause) like what are kind of like the rules for the common space?
CLIENT: No, I don't even know...
THERAPIST: And how much time you need, how much privacy you need.
CLIENT: Yeah, I don't even know what I want yet exactly. (pause) I mean she's really not been here that long either.
(pause)
THERAPIST: It's been a couple months hasn't it? [00:22:39]
CLIENT: It has but she was gone a lot, we were gone, and not that real life has started and she's going to work every day and Josh and I are going to work every day. (pause) And now she has her own little place.
(pause)
THERAPIST: Yeah so that may be more privacy, her having a room to go to. (pause) What did you give up for her to have that space?
CLIENT: A giant closet, really nothing to me. (chuckle) It would be good if she left. Then I could have my own little... (chuckle)
THERAPIST: Now that it's made.
CLIENT: Yeah. I've always wanted a space to (inaudible) because (inaudible) I can't escape. [00:23:33]
(pause)
THERAPIST: There's one thing I wanted to follow up on was you were in the process of starting the pill. Has that happened?
CLIENT: Yeah, I did. I started on Sunday. It's only been a couple days. (pause) I don't know. I almost didn't because things are so good I don't want to screw it up. But then this would be the two weeks...the past two weeks that would have been the best regardless. So hopefully it's a good thing.
THERAPIST: Well we'll pay close attention to what's going on. I think that's the best we can do is to try to chart where the ups and downs are and see if there's a pattern and just notice if you're menstrual cycle is...how it's related to how you're feeling. How it's related to sleep. How it's related to how you handle things as they come up. We can only make our best guesses based on what we notice about your mood and the timing of things. [00:24:36]
CLIENT: Yeah if I have another two weeks of happy times then I'll feel like I'm finally getting to somewhere stable.
THERAPIST: I'm sure stability would feel like a big relief. The ups and downs are really hard to weather.
CLIENT: It would. It really, really would (pause) because I still (inaudible) tonight. It's still like amazing. I'm so happy! (chuckle)
THERAPIST: It makes a big difference in life to have a full night of sleep.
CLIENT: Yeah and not waking up at all in the middle. It's just awesome. (chuckle)
THERAPIST: When you did wake up that night what did you try to do to get back to sleep?
CLIENT: (pause) I really liked the tensing and releasing.
THERAPIST: So you tried some of that muscle relaxation stuff?
CLIENT: Yeah. (pause) And that helps (pause) but it's still never the same.
THERAPIST: Never the same as actually sleeping or never the same as doing it in here? Never the same as what? [00:25:41]
CLIENT: (sigh) I guess the sleep before. I mean sometimes I don't think I slept but Josh is telling me I was sleeping but it doesn't feel like I slept at all and I don't know what that's about.
THERAPIST: I think it's really restless. We have a very skewed sense of time when we're sleeping but there are lots of layers of levels of consciousness. So there's fully alert, like you are now, and then there's things in between that and fully asleep, when you're not...where you have no consciousness at all. So that kind of drowsy where you might be really waking up and coming up a little bit out of sleep, you'll be really aware of that. So it will feel like you haven't slept at all because you've come out of that deep, unconscious kind of sleeping. He doesn't know that. Being next to you, he probably thinks you're asleep. You feel like you've been awake all night. (chuckle) There are so many different layers of consciousness between fully alert, somewhat aroused, fully asleep. [00:26:50]
CLIENT: Yeah, actually that's the worst thing about my sleep study is he had told me I was sleeping.
THERAPIST: And you're like, "No I'm not!"
CLIENT: And it was just an awful night. Maybe I was like...I don't know. What do you do when you're sleeping anxiously? You can't like consciously relax more. 
THERAPIST: It's really hard.
CLIENT: I'm just stuck at that point. Yeah. 
THERAPIST: And there is...when you realize that you've awoken a little bit (pause) being able to get yourself back into that deeper sleep can make it feel like it's more restful. Because part of what's happening for you is it's so broken up.
CLIENT: Yeah!
THERAPIST: It's not that you really didn't sleep at all but it's not that restful to get ten minutes here or ten minutes there. (chuckle) That's not what you need to really feel restored and refreshed in the morning. You need a consolidated eight hours of sleep. [00:27:44]
CLIENT: Yeah and if I can't recover from a (pause)...I mean that wasn't a crisis, it was an interruption. It just makes me feel like I need to have this intense structure to my life or (pause) there's no hope.
THERAPIST: Well right now you do. But that doesn't mean that that's what you need forever. Right now it does need to be very carefully protected (pause) and very consciously attended to, like what you need to do to be able to get fully asleep, but that doesn't mean that's what you're going to need to do forever. It's pretty fragile right now.
CLIENT: I don't know if there's hope.
(pause)
THERAPIST: Well I'll hold out some hope (pause) until you're at a place where you can.
CLIENT: Okay. (chuckle)
THERAPIST: Is there anything else we should catch up on or should we move to actually practicing these skills?
CLIENT: Yeah, that's it.
THERAPIST: And we're on for the same time next week?
CLIENT: You had changed it.
THERAPIST: Did I change it? See this is why I check with you.
CLIENT: I don't recall off the top of my head when it was.
THERAPIST: Well let me actually consult. (pause) Alright, and I changed it because (inaudible). So where are we? We are Monday at 11:30. Still work? [00:28:58]
CLIENT: Yep.
THERAPIST: And then the following week we return to our normal, Tuesday at three.
CLIENT: Okay.
THERAPIST: I'm just sort of figuring out what the new fall schedule is, which is why I'm checking.
CLIENT: You see a lot more people?
THERAPIST: People move around and things like that because class schedules change, my schedule changes. So I'm going to turn that off so it's not shiny in your eyes. (pause) And you get as comfortable as you can. Close your eyes. I'm going to close mine so I'm not watching you. (pause) Just begin to settle into a pace of breathing that feels comfortable for you. Full, deep breaths at whatever is your natural pace. (pause) Just take a mental scan of your body. Notice what you're feeling. (pause) Notice any place that might feel tight or uncomfortable. Think about breathing into that space, letting go of the tension as you exhale. (pause) I also want you to mentally scan your thoughts just to notice what you're thinking of. (pause) Notice your thoughts without any judgment about them. (pause) And give yourself permission to let them go as you exhale, letting your mind to be clear. (pause) Instead of filling your head with thoughts, let your head be filled with what you notice in the moment. (pause) Noticing what your body feels like, maybe noticing the sounds in the room, and you can just let those things come in to your awareness and then move out of your awareness. [00:30:47]
(pause) Important things will come back to you later, but for now they don't need to be there. (pause) Then begin to turn your attention to your head. Whenever you're ready to inhale, inhale and squeeze your eyes tightly shut, noticing what that feels like. (pause) When you're ready exhale let that go, letting your eyes remain gently closed. (pause) And repeat it by inhaling and squeezing your eyes tightly shut. (pause) Exhaling and letting your eyes remain gently closed, (pause) noticing a difference. [00:31:31]
On your next breath in you're going to squeeze your jaw tightly shut, clenching your teeth, noticing when that brings tension. (pause) Then exhale and relax your jaw, letting your teeth come apart. (pause) Inhaling and clenching, (pause) exhaling and releasing. (pause) On the next breath in you're going to drop your head forward, chin toward your chest. Notice what that feels like on your neck. (pause) And as you exhale let your head float back up to a neutral position. (pause) Repeating that by inhaling and dropping your head forward, (pause) exhaling and letting it float up. (pause) Inhale and tilt your head to one side, ear toward your shoulder. (pause) Exhale and let your head float up to the center. (pause) Inhale, let your head fall the other way. (pause) Exhale and let your head float up to the center. [00:32:43]
On your next breath in you're going to shrug your shoulders toward your ears. (pause) Exhale and let them fall all the way back down. (pause) Inhale and shrug them up. (pause) Exhale and let them fall back down. (pause)
On your next breath in you're going to inhale and squeeze your hands making tight fists, noticing what it feels like. Exhale and release, letting your hands become soft and relaxed. (pause) Inhale, tight fists. (pause) Exhale, release. Inhale and bend your elbows bringing your hands towards your shoulder, noticing where this brings tension to your biceps. (pause) Exhale and let your hands fall all the way down. (pause) Inhale, bend and squeeze. (pause) Exhale, let them fall all the way down letting any tension drain out of your arms and your fingertips. [00:33:51]
On your next breath in you're going to squeeze your knees tightly together, noticing the tension in your inner thighs. Exhale and relax, letting your legs come apart. (pause) Inhale and squeeze. (pause) Exhale and release.
On your next breath in you're going to squeeze your belly button in toward your spine, tightening your abdominal wall. (pause) Exhale and relax, you're still letting a full, deep breath, allowing your body to be soft. (pause) When you're ready to inhale, tighten up that abdominal wall. (pause) Exhale and release your belly.
On the next breath in you're going to straighten your legs, lifting your feet up off the floor. Notice where this brings tension to your thighs and your hips. (pause) Exhale, let your feet fall all the way back down, letting the floor absorb the weight of your legs. (pause) Inhale, straighten and lift. (pause) Exhale and release, letting your legs flop down. [00:35:03]
In this inhale you're going to flex your feet, toes back towards you, noticing the tension in your ankles. Exhale and release. (pause) Inhale, flex, (pause) exhale and release. (pause) Inhale and point your toes down onto the floor, noticing the tension in your calves. When you're ready to exhale let your heels fall back down, let the floor absorb the weight of your legs and your feet. (pause) Inhale and point hard. (pause) Exhale and release. (pause) Continuing to breathe do that mental scan of your body, all the way from the tips of your toes to the top of your head. Notice the places that still feel tight. Think about breathing in to that space (pause) and exhaling, letting go of that remaining tension. [00:36:05]
Notice what it feels like to be relaxed, (pause) knowing that you did this, (pause) it was your breathing and your tensing and relaxing that let yourself be relaxed. (pause) Take a breath and notice the thoughts that have crept into your head. (pause) Notice them without judging them. Exhale and blow them away, let your mind be empty. (pause) And you can do that as many times as you want to or need to to give yourself some time to be free of thoughts.
(pause)
Memorize what it feels like to be relaxed. You can come back to being relaxed any time you want to. (pause) Take a minute to create an image in your head. (pause) The image that is going to be a path for you, a path to imagine when you want to get from whatever you're feeling in the moment to feeling more like this. So it can be a real path of bricks that you've seen some place. It could be something imaginary like some magical slide that you fall, sliding down into relaxation. (pause) Let yourself imagine it. See yourself on the path. (pause) And let yourself move down the path toward relaxation, feeling like you do now. [00:37:54]
(pause)
Let yourself experience what it feels like to be relaxed for a few more moments and then using your breath to bring you back to the room, bringing your relaxation with you, let yourself come back to the room whenever you're ready. How was that?
CLIENT: Mixed (ph) (chuckle).
THERAPIST: (inaudible) from the head?
CLIENT: I forget half the time that I'm still taking Zoloft and sometimes I wonder if I'm actually accomplishing anything or the drugs just sort of fix it for me.
THERAPIST: It doesn't have to be either or. It really doesn't have to be either or. The Zoloft can be a tool that helps take the edge off but doing (pause) the breathing and doing the muscle tension and relaxation, that doesn't get undone by taking a medication. Those are things that you do have control over (pause) and even if you eventually stop taking the Zoloft the stuff that you do while you're on it doesn't disappear with the medication. So try to let go of that dichotomy in your head but I can understand that it feels...(overlapping voices) [00:39:13]
CLIENT: All these things that seem to be fine, simply just fine in spite of all this stress and I'm like, "Well maybe it wouldn't be fine if I wasn't on the drugs."
THERAPIST: And maybe not but taking the drugs doesn't mean you're not dealing with it. It might be that taking the medication is allowing you to do it. I often think of them as helping each other out. It sort of gets you to a place where you're able to use this stuff and that stuff is what's going to be carried on forever. You never have to stop doing deep breathing.
CLIENT: (chuckle) Yeah.
THERAPIST: That's something anybody can do for as long as they possibly want. So it was hard to let go of that conversation in your head while you were doing it.
CLIENT: Well even...I just feel so good. My body feels so good! And I'm like, gosh I just didn't even know how bad it was. It was so bad. I just felt awful! (chuckle) [00:40:05]
THERAPIST: Well I remember the first time we did a relaxation in here and you paid attention to what you're body felt like, it was so upsetting for you to realize how uncomfortable your body felt.
CLIENT: Yeah, I mean I used to always have this (pause) tightness in my chest or something, whatever.
THERAPIST: But now you can let that go.
CLIENT: It just never went away and I was exhausted.
(pause)
THERAPIST: How did imagining the path work? Because I know trying to come up with a word was horrible.
CLIENT: Imagine the path?
THERAPIST: Yeah.
CLIENT: You said image. Didn't you say image?
THERAPIST: Well I said an image of a path but whatever image...was that okay to come up with an image?
CLIENT: Oh! I can't (inaudible) an image. [I don't even know what the image is] (ph). (inaudible) how the image is fake. It's drug induced. (chuckle) (pause) I mean, (inaudible) maybe I should start doing yoga again.
THERAPIST: (chuckle) So lots of thoughts going on in your head.
CLIENT: Yeah! (laughter)
THERAPIST: So next time we do this can I have you talk out loud with me, so that I can know what's going on in your head as you're doing it? So that I can help you find ways to...it's okay to have those thoughts come in. The goal is to have them come in and then be able to let go of them too. So not that they never come but that when they come they don't feel like a lot of work and they don't create this questioning and stress for you. So we'll practice this again next time and I'm going to have you kind of say out loud what's going on for you as you do it so that I can help you kind of get to the next place with it. (pause) Sound okay? [00:41:37]
CLIENT: Yeah, I mean that will just make me think more about (chuckle) everything. When I used to do yoga I would always have trouble concentrating. But it's so long—an hour and a half—that you can only think for so long and eventually it would stop.
THERAPIST: So we'll see how we can get you to that place sooner.
CLIENT: Yeah I guess that's good. (pause) But I don't know what it stopped, exactly, because if I knew why I'd be good. (chuckle)
THERAPIST: But you know that it can.
CLIENT: That's true, yes.
THERAPIST: So we'll work with what is and we may not ever understand exactly the why or the how but if we can work with what you have and what we know you can do we'll see if we can link those a little bit closer together.
CLIENT: Okay.
THERAPIST: Okay, so I will see you on Monday.
CLIENT: Okay. [00:42:24]
END TRANSCRIPT
