Transcript of Audio File:
______________________________________________________________________________
BEGIN TRANSCRIPT:
CLIENT: (Sigh)
THERAPIST: Hello.
CLIENT: Hi. This has been sort of a rough week. I've been supposed to start my job full-time on Monday and they said I would be starting full-time today, but I guess I'm still sort of behind on rolling these assignments out. So, I suppose I'll start tonight or tomorrow or something. It's a little bit stressful because with the practice assignments they did, the instructions are very unclear. And it was very unclear what they wanted and, so I'm that I hear from they give me some decent instructions.
THERAPIST: Yeah.
CLIENT: For, you know, to do it full-time.
THERAPIST: Right.
CLIENT: We'll see. But I've been getting really depressed, really like debilitating bouts of depression here and there. Sort of unpredictably. And very frequently. I guess since I've been back, I've had probably at least like one really bad day a week, but today, I had sort of a lot, or, this weekend, a lot. And, I'm, it's just getting in the way of doing things. And it just almost feels like a physical shift or something. I don't know. I'm not sure what brings it on exactly. It almost makes me think that maybe I should look into getting on medications again, but it may get better once I start my job. That might, sort of, energize me in a way that makes it sort of impossible to get into these really bad states. I mean, I hope. It would be really inconvenient if I got into one when I was supposed to be working.
THERAPIST: Sure.
CLIENT: But, when I had my old job, I managed to be extremely depressed and, I mean, I'd go to work and do things anyway. But this might be somewhat harder, since I'm freelanced. I won't have an office to go to.
THERAPIST: Right. Kind of external structure —
CLIENT: Yeah. I think the external structure, as much as I hated it, sort of made it easier to stay focused.
(Crosstalk [00:03:03])
CLIENT: So depressed.
So, hopefully, that will work with this job. You know, it's strange. Last night, I was, yesterday I had a good, focused morning and then I went home to like cook lunch, because I've been preparing almost every meal myself to save money, and I made a big batch of pasta with vegetables, so I'd have like leftovers, and maybe [inaudible], and then I used soy milk which had been in the fridge for too long, but I thought was OK, but actually it was bad, so it tasted bitter and there was like a ton of it and I had wasted, now these expensive vegetables that were already mixed in.
THERAPIST: Oh, I see. You put it in the pasta?
CLIENT: Yeah, and like mixed it all together and then tasted it, and then realized that I totally ruined the sauce. And I don't know if it was that or maybe I was allergic to something in the mix, because like, Dude., this has not been agreeing with me lately. And I've gone back on the gluten-free thing this week. I don't know if I have multiple food allergies or if I am just so stressed out that I am having trouble digesting food properly, or what. But I tend to feel sort of depressed every time after I eat.
THERAPIST: Huh.
CLIENT: Last night I had chips with guacamole for dinner and that was OK, with a margarita. (chuckles)
THERAPIST: Like one margarita?
CLIENT: One and a half. Not terrible. (chuckles) But, I don't know. Actually, eating lunch, I just got so depressed, I couldn't do anything for a while and I went to Jeff's office to try to work with him; however, he was doing data stuff and for a few hours, I would just look at the Word document and be unable to process it. Like, I couldn't make sense of the words. And it was just like — [00:05:47]
THERAPIST: Do you think you couldn't read them?
CLIENT: I could run my eyes over them and recognize them as words, but I just couldn't get any meaning out of the sentences. I couldn't put them together. It was really frustrating because there was this impassable space between me and the computer and I just couldn't get outside of myself, and for some reason, I don't know why, after a few hours, I was able to read it again and did some work. But I just can't really account for that period of 18 hours when I was just so depressed and couldn't read, like, you know, what happened? Besides cooking a terrible lunch? I don't know. [00:06:44]
And on Sunday, I woke up later than I had planned because I met up with my friend the night before and we stayed out a little later than we had planned to and I had a really good conversation with her and it seemed like a good thing, but then waking up late, feeling sort of crappy the next morning, because I only had two drinks, but I think they were pretty strong drinks. Somehow, it just ruined Sunday and I didn't really manage to recover on Sunday, I didn't get in my, at least like a couple, focused hours. It was just totally a wasted day. It's just very frustrating not being able to pick myself up.
THERAPIST: Yeah. And, also, I'm sure it's not being sure what gets you so down. [00:07:48]
CLIENT: Yeah. It almost feels just like a physical state I'm in, it's so intense. Because it's not just like something presents itself to me as a problem or something that sucks, and sort of hovers over as a topic. It's like a full bodied feeling of exhaustion and headache, and scratchy throat, and just feeling so weak.
THERAPIST: Physically weak.
CLIENT: Yeah. And mentally. It's like it slows my powers of perception and my intellectual abilities. [00:08:37]
THERAPIST: Sounds like it's as though you're sick with something.
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: I mean physically sick with something.
CLIENT: Yeah, that's how it feels, but it comes and goes with the moods such that —
THERAPIST: Right, no, I get it that that's not what it is, but
(Laughter)
THERAPIST: But, (pause [00:09:25]. What else comes to your mind about it?
CLIENT: I've also been getting sort of weird headaches and sensations in my head that I associate with the psychological issues. Sometimes sort of a feeling of something crawling around in my head or a weird, metallic headache.
THERAPIST: You're still having your migraine medicine as usual? No?
CLIENT: No. It was just making me truthfully be, I just felt less functional than I needed to be.
THERAPIST: Sorry. When did you stop? You probably told me and I don't remember.
CLIENT: When I came back here.
THERAPIST: I see.
CLIENT: I was still taking it, not every day, but a lot of days when I was in Texas.
THERAPIST: And is that something that washes out quickly? Like, that you can take for two days and, if was going to help, it would help, and then you could stop? I mean, as opposed to something like an antidepressant where you have to take it for a few weeks or a month before it kicks in?
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: I guess what I'm wondering is whether if you would like purely for experimental purposes and diagnostic, I guess what I really mean is diagnostically, to take it and see if it helps with any of the stuff that you've been feeling. [00:11:05]
CLIENT: I had these weird headaches, the metallic and the crawly ones, when I was taking it.
THERAPIST: When you were taking it? Yeah. OK.
CLIENT: Like last March and April, because these are different from the migraines.
THERAPIST: Right.
CLIENT: They're less intense, but more disturbing because they are just a really weird feeling. And maybe they suggest the presents of sort of that other entity.
THERAPIST: Do you like the mechanism?
CLIENT: Yeah. Because it is always hard to know how much to associate with various symptoms, but, especially the crawly headache. I associated that with the mechanism, sort of, and now I am seeing its presence. And it could be that the two things were just sort of correlated randomly, but they definitely correlated in the past. I don't know, you know, in the last weekend, I wanted to try to push myself to work hard and to accomplish a lot, since I'm starting the job, so, you know, I had goals I wanted to meet before I started the job and —[00:12:59]
THERAPIST: Right. [00:12:33]
CLIENT: I think I just haven't reacted well to that, which is disappointing. I thought by now I would be able to push myself and not have that be such a problem. I hear that it's very frustrating that other burdens (ph) can still just completely scramble my mind at will and at random. (giggles) And it's easy to imagine that, if it is still happening now, that it could just go on for who knows how long. [00:13:54]
THERAPIST: What happened on Saturday night?
CLIENT: I met up with Katie for drinks and it was just the two of us. We just went out at Cindy's, which is near our apartments. And we talked a lot about her because she is engaged, about her wedding plans and relationship and ....
THERAPIST: Did you know her from school?
CLIENT: Yeah. And she talked about her work. She is someone who is a very successful like Type A personality and has a schedule and doesn't variate (ph) a certain amount each day, and does it, always meets her goals. I think I was sort of jealous, you know, hearing about her doing well. But I was there with her and really enjoyed seeing her. Just, she's totally the person moved closest to in the program, other than Sue. And I told her about my job and the novel, and she asked if I was coming back in the fall for sure and I said, you know, I don't know. OK? (giggles) That sort of wasn't fun to say, but — [00:15:34]
THERAPIST: What were your thoughts about that?
CLIENT: That if I were getting better, I'd feel a lot more secure about it. But, it just seems like these problems recur very easily. [00:16:03]
THERAPIST: Yeah, a lot of this stuff that you're describing from over just the last few days sounds like it's to do with productivity, I mean feeling kind of jealous, I imagine, sort of bad by comparison to her and bad about not having gotten, you know, stuff done you wanted to get done. And I think maybe you had a memory like not having the job start, like, I don't know, whatever else it is, you've got to have the impression that you feel productive working. And I don't know about the lunch, but I guess I wondered if you felt like you just fucked it up, I mean, like what you could have known or couldn't have known, so it was spoiled. Like, you know, you were, this was something else you were trying to do and are usually competent at and I guess I wondered if you feel like you'd screwed it up.
THERAPIST: Yeah, I wondered if you feel like you screwed it up. [00:17:14]
CLIENT: Yeah, I got frustrated, and also I just felt very sick afterward. So, the physically feeling really sick doesn't help either. Because I sort of wanted to cook something really tasty as an award for having really a really focused and productive morning, and then, I (chuckles) I couldn't believe it tasted bad and made me, like, feel like I just had a really bad stomach ache and felt totally miserable. (chuckles)
I don't know. I mean, eating has been frustrating since it's just, some things that, like, usually can be sort of a nice break. But now it is making me sick every time I do it. (chuckles) I don't know why. (chuckles) Whether, I don't know, I'm thinking of going on some really restrictive diet to try to see if I am allergic to multiple things.
THERAPIST: Right.
CLIENT: Feeling sick all the time isn't helping (chuckles) anything.
THERAPIST: No. No, you sound pretty frustrated about it. [00:18:35]
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: I mean, that's like a way that, even when things have been bad, I think you've been able to sort of care for yourself.
CLIENT: Yeah, although,(chuckles) when I was in Texas, I cared for myself a little too much and I gained a bunch of weight.
THERAPIST: Oh no.
CLIENT: (Chuckling) And yeah, and I also haven't lost any of that weight yet, and I was sort of hoping, cooking for myself would —
THERAPIST: I see.
CLIENT: But, you know, you sort of imagine that restaurants put as much fat as possible into their food, so it will taste good, but —
THERAPIST: Right. Right. But when you cook your own, it's different.
CLIENT: Yeah, but maybe not. Maybe I put a bunch of carbs and, although now that I'm gluten free, but I'm using like gluten-free pasta and a lot of rice and stuff, I don't know. I don't know. That's the only expensive thing that I've managed to control in the past, like I haven't had to think too much about my weight and what I am eating, so now it's like a new stressor that just wasn't there before. It's just sort of irritating.
THERAPIST: Sure.
(pause) [00:20:01]
THERAPIST: Are you under the impression that, a lot of this is very hard to think about. I mean, it just sort of shows up, certainly uninvited, and very much unexpected, and causes you trouble. And it really seems to come kind of out of nowhere, and you really don't know how to put it together, like what is going on. And, I guess it's sounds as though, like, it's kind of hard to think about it, it just seems to like, sort of show up. You know, like these bouts of feeling really down or sick or the stuff with food or your weight, or having difficulty being productive.
CLIENT: Yeah. Yeah, I mean, there are a few things that I can control, like, generally, first thing in the morning and I have some good times, but then, afternoon and evening are just sort of really hard to predict what's going to happen. Like post-lunch (ph)s like a battlefield.(laughs) Like, I just don't know what I'm going to encounter. It would be nice to predict, I mean, I think that's one reason I thought about maybe trying to get back on antidepressants. Although, it's been confusing because it's hard with my insurance to see a doctor who isn't my general practitioner, primary care person. I still have to figure out how to go about seeing someone here and it just sort of unappealing to figure out. (chuckles) When it's like, well, I should be doing work. Not figuring this mundane thing out. (chuckles) [00:23:05]
Anytime I take care of something practical, I feel like I am betraying my work, which is sort of inconvenient. It means often I don't take care of anything practical. (chuckles)
THERAPIST: Talent wasted on you not your work.
CLIENT: Maybe.
THERAPIST: I mean, like I get that's part of the idea with, taking a prescriber. [00:23:37]
CLIENT: Although, I did feel kind of weird when I was on antidepressants before because I really felt like I should be depressed and that was the logical response to the conditions in my life, so, while on one hand, it would be nice to prevent things like extreme lows that prevent me from, like, I don't know, like sometimes it is just really hard to get out of the house and I feel like that. Getting out of the house is always, you're always closer to getting something done, but at least it's one step. But I've been worrying that if I just feel sort of more chipper all the time, it will be disconcerting like it was last time.
THERAPIST: Did you find out what the deal is with the insurance and this?
CLIENT: I sent them the wrong number. (chuckles) I got a new, so, I need to resend them. Jeff said you would help with it tonight because they don't really want to help you over the phone and the website is confusing, so, yeah, Jeff's going to help me figure it out. [00:25:16]
(pause)
Yeah, when I called them again about it, they said, "Oh. You know, the form has directions on it and it explains itself." But last time I couldn't seem to find the right form and I had been using the wrong number, so it said their online services were unavailable. It was just sort of —
THERAPIST: This is strange. I have never heard of it being so difficult to find out, like, what your benefits, what a person's benefit information is. Like if it's usually, as with insurance, dealing with insurance companies goes, not a terribly annoying thing.
CLIENT: I mean, they were really pushing their website hard and trying to get people to use it. The website is confusing. (chuckles)
THERAPIST: But I mean, I think Jeff is better at figuring these things out than I am, so hopefully he'll be able to help. [00:26:34]
THERAPIST: Uh huh. Yeah. I guess I'm left with the impression that I don't, I don't want to make it sound like there's an [added to] (ph) that it isn't, and maybe it isn't and I'm barking up the wrong tree, but I sort of crossed the point, I keep sort of getting this impression that there's like very much kind of a resistance in you to knowing. I don't know, like, sort of, understanding or figuring out a lot of these things that are happening. And I know you're working very hard in some ways to be able to do things, because, "I'm done." You're like very aggressive in that and very frustrated (chuckles) about not being able to do it and being kind of like bombarded or besot by sort of various new symptoms, if that makes sense.
But, and again, this is like, where I may absolutely just be wrong, but it seems like there is some kind of passivity in, you kind of respond in terms of it being difficult to figure out, or you're not sort of thinking about how it works or whatever I need to do with, like, which, I guess I bring up, in part, knowing, you know, there are contacts like with work, how reactively you think and figure things out, and problem solve and interpret and, you know what I mean? [00:28:31]
I know you can be sort of very active and interpretive that way, but when it comes to psychological stuff, my impression is that feeling to you is it's just sort of like somebody showing up at your house all of a sudden, uninvited, unexpected and unexplained. You know, like it's just kind of there and you're sort of a bit paralyzed in your ability to kind of try to understand or sort of think about it in some say. Like, you know, by, and if I heard it right, I'm not intending to blame you or find some faults that you are doing something wrong, I'm trying to kind of understand how this works. I guess my question is, does it seem that way to you? Or am I characterizing this incorrectly? [00:29:32]
CLIENT: I guess it's hard to know. (chuckles)
THERAPIST: Uh huh. (chuckles)
CLIENT: But for some reason when you were saying that, I started to get some visual disturbances.
THERAPIST: Hmmm.
CLIENT: You got sort of an aura and things got a little bit, like the light in the room looked weird and got sort of crackly-looking. (chuckles)
THERAPIST: I would imagine that had to do with the content of what I was saying.
CLIENT: Yeah. And that reminds me of some reactions that I would have sometimes, like last spring, some things that were upsetting.
THERAPIST: Here? Or —
CLIENT: Here. Well, [at the] (ph) end in the class, and like on the street randomly. (chuckles)
THERAPIST: And?
CLIENT: Yeah. There is, I have been getting these really like weird visuals, but I just, just like -
THERAPIST: What do you make of it?
CLIENT: I mean, it sort of in with the possible return of the mechanism, doing weird things.
THERAPIST: Could the mechanism be an operative in paralyzing or slowing your ability to think about sort of various symptoms and effects that you're having?
CLIENT: Maybe. I mean, I think they definitely connect to thinking about my relation to school and the classes I'll be, going back. There've been, I sort of managed to get that out of my mind a bit more and then talking to Katie and some other things, I've just sort, made me think about it more. And sort of make my relation to it a part of my social being again, [with Katie] like asking me if whether I was coming back. [00:32:07]
So, I think this, that could be partly behind some of the new resistance, which is unpleasant because, you know, I've just been hoping that I wouldn't resist it so much. So, it could be that, I mean some that, that maybe I don't want to regret that there is still so much resistance to my going back. That's sort of preventing me from looking at this too much. I don't know. Because it would have, like, practical consequences that are very unpleasant to me.
THERAPIST: What if it were true, what if you were more resistant and scared to go back than you have been thinking?
CLIENT: I mean if I were like unable to conquer it, as I was last year, then they're telling me that I shouldn't go back. (chuckles) And that there would be a question of whether I would go back and then I would just feel very ashamed and sort of not want to talk to anyone. I'd admit to that. I've been sort of having flares of a fear that I'll have to explain to people that I am not going back actually. But it's pointless to think about that because I don't know what's going to happen, but, it keeps coming up pretty recent. [00:34:10]
I mean, like with my lives, not that other people are bringing it up
(pause)
And then, I guess I'm sort of reminded of the anxiety thoughts I was having several months ago, pretty repeated, repeatedly imagine having to sort of explain myself to various people and just, it's a very unpleasant thing to imagine. And when I was at home, I was able to sort of stop having those recurring, almost like daydream nightmares, is there like a word for that? (chuckles)
THERAPIST: I know what you mean. In a way, I guess you could call them worries, but that —
CLIENT: Worries. Scenarios. I don't know.
THERAPIST: Yeah, like they're these kind of fantasies that are a bit intrusive and they kind of involve — I wonder if that is exactly what is difficult here. You're dealing with some sense of having to, or maybe you're wanting to, like, explain yourself.
CLIENT: Yeah. I guess I do have to own up to things that I sort of tried not to associate with myself, on an hour to hour level. [00:36:36]
THERAPIST: What, what do you? Like, what's with the, I'm not quite sure what you're coming to.
CLIENT: Um, just, even like thinking about school at all. I generally try not to think about it, just because it stresses me out so much and makes me feel like such a failure. (chuckles)
THERAPIST: I think this kind of stuff here can be, and, it doesn't matter whether you think about it here or somewhere else, I think that stuff is very hard to think about. I think it's, you're really scared and you really have to work hard to try to overcome and think about things like school or what's making you feel kind of depressed. Or, you know, what upset you in the conversation with Katie or something like that.
CLIENT: Yeah, I guess I've been trying to achieve a level of functionality by just not thinking. Because it seems like I have done a lot of thinking and it seems like I should be able to cash in on that. (laughs)
THERAPIST: (chuckles) You mean, thinking about like that kind of stuff? Psychological kind of stuff?
CLIENT: Yeah. It seems like you ought to be able to ride on a certain amount of work for a while. (chuckles)
THERAPIST: (Laughs) Sometimes, I guess, I wish, I mean. — I don't want to say that sometimes it works that way and sometimes, in my experience, it doesn't. You know?
CLIENT: It should be like money where you can save it up and then —
(Laughter)
CLIENT: And then you start saving again. I don't know.
THERAPIST: Uh huh, yeah, and then, I don't think. [00:39:10]
CLIENT: And this week I did a little less writing in my diary. I had been doing it every day, very diligently, and then I did maybe three days this week, but only one really long entry. And again, I thought I had been writing in my diary so much, surely I can, like, cut down a little. But I don't know. [00:39:51]
THERAPIST: I bet if you thought a little further about it, it would seem more to do with, like, just not wanting to.
CLIENT: Well, a little, there is that. I mean, I guess sometimes I wonder whether writing about being really depressed — sometimes I think it's helpful, but it's sort of hard to do multiple days in a row.
THERAPIST: How come?
CLIENT: It's not always fun to sort of see your depressed thoughts on the page and then scroll down and write more of them. And look at your . . .
THERAPIST: Do you mean like to know how depressed you really feel?
CLIENT: (chuckles) Maybe. And it's depressing for it not to change or at least fluctuate.
THERAPIST: Again, like, it's hard to know how it really is.
CLIENT: Yeah, I mean, there's a school of thought that says every day is a new day and you should just try to have the best day you can (chuckles) and not think about what came before, even if it is the —
THERAPIST: How does that work it out? I mean, look, I'm not saying it's not good to put the past behind you when you can, it just hasn't seemed like, with a lot of this stuff, you can. I would like to be wrong, you know? But, when you say, "Geez, I just seem to be getting hit with these sort of waves of depressive and sick-type feelings that seem psychological and it seems to be happening more, and I feel down and have more trouble around eating, and there's a bunch of things I'm really scared of that keep cropping up. And I have these sort of intrusive fantasies about school life," that doesn't sound like stuff you can sweep under the rug, stuff it in a closet and forget about it. [00:42:37]
CLIENT: And it's hard to know what to do with it. I think in the past, writing a lot in my diary and working on the novel has helped. But I don't know. I don t' want to have to do so much of that all the time. I keep hoping that it won't be so necessary. I don't know. And sometimes I really wonder what writing in my diary does for me. I mean, there are some very obvious things it does and it's good to have something that's both a mode of expression and sort of practice for something that I really care about.
THERAPIST: Writing, you mean?
CLIENT: Yeah. Because some of the things I write about in my diary will sort of inspire things in the novel.
THERAPIST: Sure.
CLIENT: Or just thought processes that are interesting to explore in fiction. So, I mean, I see what it's doing for me on one level, but then sometimes while I' actually doing it, I'll be describing the weather and telling (inaudible) I'm like, "What am I doing? When there are so many things to do? I'm sitting here, writing about the weather, how it looks outside." It seems like a luxury that I can't afford. [00:44:11]
And at other times, when I am writing about how I feel in a way that's sort of repetitive, I'm not even doing something that's useful for the novel, so no matter what I do, if (crosstalk)
THERAPIST: Well, I think in any case, you're explaining yourself. I think you have really mixed feelings about doing that.
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: Just that you're being repetitive about feeling down, it might not make good literature, but if that's how it is, if it is depressing to be feeling it all the time, it's depressing to be feeling that way all the time, whether you're conscious of it or not, I think. You know? Or if your mood is being affected by the weather or you're avoiding something in talking about the weather, I can't tell, but either way, not knowing about it, I don't think really changes it much.
CLIENT: I guess I'm frustrated with the continued time that I have to put into that.
THERAPIST: Sure. It's terrible. I mean, it'd be great if this stuff weren't happening and if you, the journal didn't help you feel sort of, I think, more in touch with things you're feeling and how you're seeing things. It'd be great if you didn't need that stuff or if it didn't help.
We're going to stop for now, but we'll talk more next week.
CLIENT: OK. (sigh) Goodbye.
THERAPIST: Have a good night. Take care.
CLIENT: Thank you.
END TRANSCRIPT
