TRANSCRIPT OF AUDIO FILE:
______________________________________________________________________________
BEGIN TRANSCRIPT:
THERAPIST: ...a stack of checks from Blue Cross?
CLIENT: Yes, like $45 each. 
THERAPIST: Okay.
CLIENT: But I forgot them.
THERAPIST: Okay.
CLIENT: There are five of them.
THERAPIST: Okay. It's okay. You can mail them to me or bring them on Tuesday. Any way is fine with me.
CLIENT: I'll bring them on Tuesday. I'm glad you told me because I'd [inaudible]. I'm not really good about opening my mail. It's just nothing good in there. 
THERAPIST: It shouldn't change. They should start sending them to me again. 
CLIENT: I get dozens of things about tax liens because they filed tax liens on us and always different—it makes it look like it's an official—I'm getting spammed by accountants and lawyers. That's why. So I've been sad. Not really having a good time. I'm drinking too much.
THERAPIST: How much too much?
CLIENT: It depends on the day but just—what is too much?
THERAPIST: How much are you drinking?
CLIENT: It depends on the day.
THERAPIST: Avoidance is usually a sign. I mean, what...?
CLIENT: You want an example?
THERAPIST: About the last week. [00:02:04]
CLIENT: Okay. Yesterday, I had three rogue (ph) double IPAs which are, they'll serve them to you in a small glass because they're high alcohol content. And then when I got home I had a double bag, long-trail double bag, which is about 7 percent alcohol. I go for the high-octane stuff. Wednesday I had five of those double bags. Tuesday—where did we go on Tuesday—I had God knows how many margaritas. Monday, I don't know if I drank on Monday. I had a couple of beers on Sunday; I had a few more on Saturday. I don't know, I think I did drink on Friday. I probably had some beers and some whiskey. That's the last week. So maybe Monday was the only day I didn't drink. And I recognize that this is a problem but I'm just bored, bitter, upset. 
Getting into huge financial problems this month. Jess got paid a week ago, a few days ago, $1900. She wants her money and I, some of it I spent on Sprint or cell phone, which she splits and our DOR payment, which is $315 which we split. So I don't owe her $1900; I owe her less but I've only got $1,000 in the account. And I'm going to send another e-mail to the guy I do a lot of titles for because I never got a response from him. Last time I sent him an e-mail about his payables that were over—my receivables that were over 60 days, he cut a check that day and mailed it. I've never got an e-mail back so I don't know. Maybe he didn't get the e-mail or—but I've just got nothing coming in. I sent a bill out for $300 and change, $389, maybe they'll pay me quickly. I don't know. And I've got closings but they're probably—I've got four of them. [00:05:25]
THERAPIST: That's great.
CLIENT: One's going to close—well, I'm going to get $750 at the end of July, which I've got—$500 of that's going to go to rent. My rent's being lowered by $50 a month because I've committed to three years.
THERAPIST: At the office?
CLIENT: At the office. And so that leaves me $250 for health and dental. This plan is like a shell game. It's going to catch me this month. I don't know what to do. I already said to Jess I don't have any money coming in and I don't think she's going to give a shit. My dad's paying for me to go down to Fantasy Football which is going to be on September 1st, so we'll be able to go. When I thought about it I was more—like last time I didn't get to see the kids, I was kind of upset about it. And as much as I love the draft, which I slept through last year because I was too drunk that day, not the same thing here. But I do want to see my niece and nephew. And I'm out of a couple of my medications, I'm going to be out, and Candy is not responding to my phone calls. I was supposed to meet with her on Wednesday and she switched it so she may be out of town but she didn't leave nothing on her voice mail so I'm going to run out of the Welbutrin tomorrow. I guess I could go and have them give me a few. They'll probably give me some at the pharmacy. [00:07:56]
THERAPIST: Yes, try to do that.
CLIENT: Doesn't make a difference because I keep drinking and that's f****king everything up.
THERAPIST: Plainly (ph).
CLIENT: Ian is coming over tomorrow night because they're going to an art show tonight. Today is Jess's birthday. I texted her happy birthday. No explanation point or anything like that. I don't like putting happy birthday on people's Facebook wall, I think that's silly. The whole thing filled up with happy birthdays. So I don't—you can't see my birthday so it won't show up for people that it's my birthday. I don't get deluged with happy birthday, happy birthday, hope you have a happy birthday, happy birthday. Twenty posts of happy birthday. 
I'm having trouble letting go of this whole Barbara thing. And, I went through the same thing with Claire; I just couldn't let her go. And we were in the huddle, everybody's about to do a cheer and it was halftime. And I looked up and you know when someone's looking at you and then they look away? She did that. So I don't know what that means. She probably said, whew, glad I'm not dating that asshole. [00:10:18]
THERAPIST: That's definitely what she was thinking, yes. She had to look at you to make sure. That's what that look meant.
CLIENT: Yes, God he slept a lot. So I'm pretty much just miserable all around. I don't know what to do about it. I have this feeling that I didn't lock the office when I left yesterday. I'm probably not going to be able to get back up there until Tuesday. I may go in tomorrow or later today, I don't know.
THERAPIST: If you call them up won't they just lock it up, like if they...?
CLIENT: I don't know. But I really want to check my mail to see if any money's coming in.
THERAPIST: Oh, okay. Yes, sure.
CLIENT: On Sunday. Just no f***king money's coming in. A couple of titles to do. I need to scan them and I scanned them all with those hand-held scanners [inaudible at 00:12:07] in the office. So maybe I'll just go today. There's no point. Wasn't planning on it. I've got to do laundry. Maybe I'll do my laundry first and then—no, I've got to make reservations. Labor Day weekend, the tickets are going to be expensive. I don't think my dad realizes that. And I would be leaving at the end of August, which who knows. I may get a closing at the end of August. Now I imagine—the flights do get kind of full, for Labor Day. I don't know. The trip coming back, I don't know. Just because it's a hub and people are...I'm disappointed that Jet Blue doesn't fly there. I mean I used to get out on the lake and do some lake boarding but now that my brother actually may have it, my mom's going to be there... [00:13:41]
THERAPIST: Oh, [inaudible at 00:13:41]?
CLIENT: No, in Florida with my brother. So he'll definitely have the kids who I haven't seen in two years. It bothers me that my brother's never seen Lucille. And he's got the money to do it. He can afford to fly in and spend a weekend. He's got a good job and he's got to pay alimony and probably child support now. Then he came with Words With Friends with Barbara and she hasn't moved in over a day.
THERAPIST: Well she did move after cupid.
CLIENT: Yes, but not after noodle. And she didn't do yesterday. I know she's playing. She may be busy because she went into the office the other day at 7:30 in the morning, according to her Facebook post. And left her windows open in her car, a day when it was showering. That's you, I think, or is that me?
THERAPIST: That's you. I don't think that one will make that noise.
CLIENT: That's right. That's probably Jess. Oh, no, Facebook. My Facebook and texts have the same sound. Facebook should have its own setting. The next series of iPhones are going to be more integrated with Facebook. You can't just send a—like take a picture and post it onto Facebook. You've got to go into Facebook and upload it. You can Tweet it, you can e-mail it, you can message it, but you can't send it straight into Facebook. So I think they're going to be fixing that lack of integration. 
So I keep getting e-mails about GooglePlus but I don't know anybody who's really using that. I think a lot—when they were kind of testing it I logged in and it seemed like in theory it was a good idea but just people aren't using it. You can create circles but you can do the same thing on Facebook with lists. Just seemed too overly complicated. [00:16:31]
THERAPIST: How was it seeing Barbara on Tuesday?
CLIENT: On Tuesday? I was nervous at first.
THERAPIST: Yes, I remember you saying that was the first time you were going out and seeing her.
CLIENT: And I came off the field and I said something to her. I can't remember. There's an awkward where she kind of put her hand up for a high five or something like that. I asked her how her birthday was with her family. It wasn't really that awkward at all. We chatted a little bit here and there during the game. We went to a pub for the after where they—everybody, a whole bunch of people went—and they do like a family-style for you. And I'm looking through the window and the table's full except for the seat next to Barbara. I'm like oh you've got to be f***king kidding me. 
So I walk in and there was a second table so I sat down at the second table. And I was showing pictures on my phone, actually have a picture that I took of Ian and Lucille that I wasn't supposed to put on Facebook but I did anyway—Ian asked me not to. But I was showing the person sitting right next to Barbara and she kind of like wanted to look and I pulled it away. It wasn't until way after the fact that I realized I probably should've shown her the picture too. Whatever. So, I don't know. It's not like—it's not awkward or anything like that. It seems like she didn't tell anyone and [inaudible at 00:18:32] you don't want to know. [00:18:39]
THERAPIST: It doesn't sound like she's being weird about it.
CLIENT: What?
THERAPIST: It doesn't sound like she's being weird about it.
CLIENT: No.
THERAPIST: Good. 
CLIENT: So, I keep telling myself you know, one day she'll come around. She'll realize that simple's not out there. And then I try and find reasons not to like her but it doesn't work. I did the same thing with Claire. I'm a perfectionist. And maybe that's the reason why I'm drinking so much? I don't know.
THERAPIST: Yes, I was wondering about that too.
CLIENT: I'm seeing Candy next week. I guess I have to tell her I've been drinking a lot. I think I'm also seeing my primary care, who I'll have to tell I've been drinking a lot. But I just, I drink, I listen to music online, iPhone. I have a playlist of a bunch of songs that I like to hear over and over and over again. There's 25 of them. Some of them are songs about women. I guess I'm just in a big funk. [00:21:09]
THERAPIST: Yes, well I think you're terribly lonely and I think you're holding onto her in a way to help you feel less lonely but in a way that also makes you feel lonely. 
CLIENT: I wanted Ian to come over tonight. And Jess's taken him to...
THERAPIST: Right, art show.
CLIENT: Art show, yes. So he's going to stay over tomorrow night. Which, I don't know, I prefer Fridays I don't know why. He wakes me up; I get up and we can go to the farm, get the veggies.
THERAPIST: [inaudible at 00:22:01] anyway.
CLIENT: Yes. Now he'll wake me up on Sunday. He's going to be bummed because Two and a Half Men is not on Saturdays. That's all he wants to do is hang out and watch Two and a Half Men. He's kind of a wuss (sp). He was playing—yesterday I picked him up from camp and brought him home and Lucille wanted to play with the cars that he was playing with. And she kept every time going after his cars and one time she just grabbed his cars, the cars he was playing with—he had a bunch of them so he wasn't using them all at once. And she grabbed a cop car and he just started crying. And I'm like he's 6-1/2 years old. He shouldn't be crying because his 1-1/2-year-old sister is touching his toys. Just—complaining to mom is one thing but just—I don't know. Maybe it is age-appropriate. I don't know. [00:23:54]
THERAPIST: Your diagnosis is that he's a wuss (ph)? 
CLIENT: Yes, but there's other evidence of that. I think that's the way his mom wants him to be, more artistic. I just wish—you know, we talk about going to kick the soccer ball but whenever it comes time to hey you want to go kick the soccer ball he doesn't want to do it. Hey you want to go throw a baseball around, he doesn't want to do it; or throw a Frisbee, he doesn't want to do it. 
THERAPIST: You're disappointed in him?
CLIENT: No. Just he is who he is. He comes over and he plays with the girl downstairs and they put on performances. I feel bad for him. All the other kids parents live together. I feel bad for me. There's people on the Team with kids and just...[phones ring] CBS. But Lucille can say Elmo but she can't say Da Da. I don't know. I just wish things were different. [00:26:33]
THERAPIST: Do you feel you're not that big a figure in Lucille's life?
CLIENT: Yes. It's not like she gets excited to see me. There were a couple of times when she would come running over but she was eating yesterday and I try to give her a big smile and she just kept eating. She'll come and she'll sit down next to me with a magazine or her book or something like that. She gives me a hug; she is a good hugger.
THERAPIST: You just feel like you don't matter that much to her, is that it?
CLIENT: I don't know. As a matter I just I don't see her growing up. She knows all these words and Jess always—the way she puts things it's like oh, she's just said that. She's like oh she's been saying that for weeks. It's just like—I don't know if she intentionally does these things to me but she just always says the wrong f***king thing. I really need to clean up my apartment. It's getting bad. That was going to be my motivation to clean my apartment was if Barbara said yes I would be like oh I have to clean my apartment now because she might come over. [00:29:24]
THERAPIST: [Kind of weird though] (ph) if she said yes.
CLIENT: What?
THERAPIST: [Kind of weird though.] (ph)
CLIENT: Yes. I feel guilty too. I feel like I put her in an awkward situation. Just I'm not in any kind of social circle that would present an opportunity to meet another woman. Typically the people I hang out with on the Team are younger than me. And beyond that I really don't have a lot of social interaction. My networking group, but everybody's on the north shore. Like I have a lot of friends, dates I want are f***king in downtown.
THERAPIST: You're out that way. [00:31:50]
CLIENT: Yes. Next Friday I'm going to be going down to the beach, to play in that beach ultimate tournament so I won't be here next Friday.
THERAPIST: Okay. I'm actually going to be out the following Tuesday. I rip away right after Monday, Tuesday.
CLIENT: I'll forget but...
THERAPIST: Let's see. Should we—let's see if I have something on—you're leaving on Friday?
CLIENT: Yes. Friday morning.
THERAPIST: Whoops. 
FEMALE VOICE: Past due notices [inaudible at 00:34:09].
THERAPIST: That'll work. [00:34:10]
CLIENT: June 31st, you are not going to be...
THERAPIST: Right, I could meet on Wednesday next week at 10:45, so we'd meet Tuesday, Wednesday instead of Tuesday, Friday.
CLIENT: But you're not going to be here Tuesday.
THERAPIST: I'm talking about the 25th. 
CLIENT: Oh, okay. Meeting [inaudible] at 5:30.
THERAPIST: I can do 7:45 in the morning. We don't have to. I mean...
CLIENT: I don't know. I'm not up for that.
THERAPIST: Okay.
CLIENT: On a back to back day not enough miserable things will happen to me.
THERAPIST: Not enough miserable things?
CLIENT: Yes.
THERAPIST: Okay.
CLIENT: Anything on Thursday? Psychiatrist at 2:30.
THERAPIST: At the moment I—not on the 26th. I was just, I had been looking at that. The following week, that would be August 1st. I could meet...
CLIENT: Your move with Barbara. I hate how it says that.
THERAPIST: Yes.
CLIENT: I used to like it but now I hate it. I sent her a reminder late last night that she could use some reminders. August 1st... [00:36:42]
THERAPIST: I can meet at 10 in the morning on August 1st.
CLIENT: Okay. That'll work. And you don't have anything Thursday next week?
THERAPIST: Correct. Yes, I've got [inaudible at 00:37:22] cancellation. Someone will let you know. So we'll meet next Tuesday as usual.
CLIENT: Yes. And the beach should be therapeutic for me.
THERAPIST: Good.
CLIENT: My—Jess's not feeling well.
THERAPIST: Sorry, you might what?
CLIENT: Jess's not feeling well so I might have Ian tonight.
THERAPIST: Oh. That's too bad on her birthday. [00:38:15]
CLIENT: Yes. 
THERAPIST: Okay, so we were talking about Wednesday the first, right, instead of Tuesday the 31st. 
CLIENT: Yes, 10:00 right?
THERAPIST: At 10. 
CLIENT: There's a lot of partying that goes on at this tournament. I'll have to try and watch myself.
THERAPIST: Yes, be careful.
CLIENT: That's the thing. It's not like I'm drinking to the point where I'm passing out. I'm just drinking to get buzzed. I don't know if that makes a difference.
THERAPIST: Well it's better. I mean I think this is a bit one of those things where you have as good an idea as I do of why you're doing it and what's healthy and what to be worried about. But you're kind of setting it up a little bit where I'm sort of like responsible one and I'm kind of wagging my finger at you. And you're the sort of less responsible one but also feeling crummy about himself for not taking responsibility for things. [00:40:24]
CLIENT: You always throw in that not taking responsibility thing.
THERAPIST: I think it's big. I think it's not uncommon sort of style but I think that that's...
CLIENT: My problem?
THERAPIST: ...sort of your style is kind of to set things up in these sorts of ways so it's not to like—in a way coping with things that are difficult or overwhelming is to arrange thing to kind of evade responsibility for that. I mean there's other ways for me that's comforting somehow and that's one of the ways you do. If that makes sense.
CLIENT: Yes, I guess. I don't know what I do about it. 
THERAPIST: Pay attention to it. 
CLIENT: I don't know.
THERAPIST: Here we go again. I mean, right?
CLIENT: Well I mean you're like pay attention to it and if I don't know that I'm doing it...
THERAPIST: Right, but I—it's clear to you I'm kind of bringing up this pattern of behavior. That's why you asked me about this. So I guess maybe we'll keep talking about it and I'll keep waving my arms about it but I imagine it may start to become clearer to you—I hope so—when it's happening. We can stop for now.
CLIENT: Yes. [00:42:27]
END TRANSCRIPT
