<font size="4"><b>Five: Hosprison</b></font>
[p. <i>[151]</i>]

ON the trip back to the United
States I was ragged by uncertainty. What, precisely, was I returning
to? Had Israel failed me or I failed myself? Could I
expect that my life would now change?


I became watchful for omens. Off Casablanca the <i>Exilona</i>
ran into foul weather and heavy seas. The ship creaked and
groaned as it pitched and rolled, shuddering horribly under
the intermittent blows of huge waves which smashed down
upon the decks with a thunderous roaring. Few of us passengers
felt like eating, and in the mess liquids splashed out and
dishes skittered across the table in one direction after another.
It was almost as much as I could do to walk down a passageway.
At night I slept with my life preserver tucked beneath
the outer edge of my mattress to keep from being hurled onto
the floor.


Jonah had not had a clearer warning. The ill weather fastened
to the vessel for the greater part of the nine days it lay
in the Atlantic.


And then I received an opposite sign.

[p. <i>152</i>]

I had but four dollars in my pocket, left from my last indulgences
in Israel. While I needed no money in passage for
myself, I was disturbed that the amount would be inadequate
to tip the waiters, stewards and porters. Two days before the
ship was to arrive in Hoboken, I invested my pauper's fortune
in a poker game, feeling that if destiny was against me she
could inflict little harm in this venture. However, to my surprise
and delight, I won over twenty dollars.


At the dock in Hoboken I found nobody waiting for me.
There was no answer when I called my sister's house. My first
impression was that I had erred in the address of her new home
when cabling her of my return during a layover in Cyprus,
and that I had also just now used an incorrect phone number.
However, I checked with the telephone operator and found
both the address and phone number to be right. On a hunch
I called Arthur's mother's home in Connecticut; Lilian and
Arthur were there. They had somehow gotten the date of my
arrival confused and were not expecting me for two days.


They insisted upon leaving Connecticut, where they were
spending the week-end, and picking me up at the dock. The
trip would only take about two hours, they said. I couldn't
drive over myself because my station wagon was held up in
customs.


However, I suggested that, to save time, I leave my heavy
luggage at the pier and take a taxi to Newark where I would
meet them. They agreed to this arrangement. Then I found
a taxi driver who would take me with all my luggage to Newark
for five dollars.


After getting my things unloaded and paying the fare plus
a tip, I sat down on one of my sister's lawn chairs to take stock
of my finances. I had all of one dollar and seventy-three cents.

[p. <i>153</i>]

It was pleasant to be with my sister, brother-in-law and
nephew again. I fitted into the routine of their cheerful new
home with a minimum of friction. Spring was in the air, and in
the afternoon I sat in the back yard hoping that the girl next
door would come out and talk to me.


Jean was a clean-cut American girl, of a type that had rarely
entered my wayward life. Dark, petite, attractive, she was
well-liked by everyone; and as the days went by, I began to
appreciate her presence more and more. I looked forward to
our neighborly meetings and when I failed to see her or when
I saw her in the company of another young man, I would experience
a pang of disappointment or jealousy. Soon I was
taking Jean out on evening dates, and three weeks after my
arrival we were together almost every night.


Jean was an elementary school teacher who supervised
special classes for handicapped children. She liked children
and her work seemed to satisfy her completely. She had no
pretenses of being anything that she was not. Guile, cunning,
dishonesty were simply not in her make-up. She had always
been shielded by her family, had rarely been away from home
and as a result, was a bit naive and spoiled. I doubt that she
had ever departed from the accepted modes of behavior: she
lacked completely that strange sensitivity and insight into
other people which one finds in those who have transgressed.


Jean and I went to local movies, saw stage plays and baseball
games in New York, spent hours driving golf balls and
toured beautiful residential areas outside of Newark. Once I
promised to present her with such a house as she had particularly

[p. <i>154</i>]

On Sundays, we took drives to Montauk Point, Cape May
and the lake areas in New Jersey. The moments I enjoyed
most, however, were those we spent sitting in front of her
house in the stillness of late night beneath trees whose leaves
appeared silver-hued in the light of the street lamp across the
street.


Then Jean spoke of her ideas about education, her experiences
with her handicapped children and her love for her
work. She questioned me about my past and I responded
frankly, telling her of my bout with tuberculosis, my work,
my travels, and my futile search for a stronger faith. I forbore
mentioning my problem with narcotics, fearing, however, that
if our relationship became more serious I would have to tell
her the whole truth.


So the days passed, and one night I told Jean that I intended
to return to private practice in Miami.


I had come to the decision almost passively. I still believed
that there was no future for me in any hospital; and private
practice was the only way I knew to function in the society
to which I had returned: to fulfill the financial demands which
it imposed on every adult male. In spite of my distaste for
Miami in particular, I still loved the Florida coast region more
than any other in which I had lived.


Before my departure in June, 1954, I kept my promise by
giving Jean a birthday gift consisting of a toy house complete
with furniture and a huge diamond which I had purchased in
a five-and-ten cent store. Our last night together was awkward
and trying. We had progressed far in our relationship
and the air was charged with expectancy. But both of us held

[p. <i>155</i>]

In Miami, I moved in with my mother, who had taken a
small apartment some blocks away from her former home. I
saw Tommy Birland occasionally and started to go out with
Helen again. Helen had married since our last meeting, but
was now separated from her husband and undergoing psychotherapy.
Our relationship was very much as it had been before,
except for a higher degree of abstraction which pervaded our
conversations as a result of her contact with psychiatry.


I maintained a platonic type of correspondence with Jean
which revealed no trace of the undercurrent of emotions
which motivated us both. From one of her letters, I learned
that her mother had undergone surgery and that a diagnosis
of widespread cancer had been made. Although I spent most
of the time looking for an office, it was not until September
that I found one which suited me.


Once engaged in setting the office up, I became occupied
with a thousand and one details in an attempt to economize as
much as possible. Haggling and bargaining had always gone
against my grain; yet I scurried about Miami day after day,
obtaining estimates for partitioning, electrical wiring and
painting, selecting furniture and medical equipment and deciding
on materials and colors. It was all very odious; yet I was
determined to make good. I applied for membership in the
county medical society and for staff appointments at various
hospitals.


My office, however, came together slowly. By mid-November,
it was still far from completely furnished and I waited
day after day for some of the medical equipment to arrive.


No longer busy, I rapidly became restive, irritable with my

[p. <i>156</i>]

I wrote to her of my loneliness, my desire to be with her
and my love for her. A few days later, I received a happy
reply containing the announcement that she would spend her
Christmas vacation with me in Miamiand the very next day
I took my first injection of demerol.


I do not know what impelled me: the awareness that I
would soon again have to face the problem of marriage and its
responsibilities, the question of whether or not I loved Jean
enough to marry her, or the stress of hanging around and waiting
for my office to be completedor all of these reasons. But
I knew that I craved the blunting effects of the drug.


I ordered extra quantities of demerol and used it frequently,
starting with injections of 3 c.c. Within a week I had exceeded
all previous limits and was using quantities of 6 to 8 c.c. at a
time. Because of this larger dosage, I was forced to keep large
amounts of the drug on hand at all times to be certain that I
would not be caught short during the day. I also had to use a
larger needle, which resulted in the staining of my clothes as
a result of prolonged bleeding.


I injected the drug into the anterior aspects of my thighs,
alternating from one to another, rather than into my arms, so
that no needle marks would be visible when I wore short-sleeved
shirts or undressed to go swimming.

[p. <i>157</i>]

Soon I had dispensed with all semblance of sterile technique,
injecting myself with the same needle repeatedly, in the office,
in theater washrooms and in the car, while driving. If the circumstances
were not opportune and I was in a hurry, I did not
even bother to raise my trouser leg but injected directly
through the cloth into my thigh and then pressed down upon
the site of the injection to stop the bleeding. My underwear
shorts and suit pants became spotted with blood, and I was
obliged to wash my shorts in the office and have my suits
cleaned frequently to erase the telltale signs. Each morning I
sat in my car outside of a pharmacy, sick, agitated, sniffling
and soaked with perspiration, while I waited for the store to
open so that I could obtain a new supply of demerol with
which to relieve my withdrawal symptoms.


The morbid personality traits soon returned. In addition, I
experienced uncontrollable muscular spasms of my legs and
body. While I lay in bed, I would suddenly begin to twitch
and thrash. I suffered horrible nightmares. Not infrequently,
as I read in bed I would fall into a deep, unnatural sleep, only
to awaken some hours later with a swollen area around a
groove on my scalp where it had pressed against one of the
bedposts while I had been too narcotized to move or even
feel the discomfort.


Sitting at my desk in the office, I would suddenly be roused
from my drugged stupor by the ringing of the telephone, and
after the conversation I would be so unnerved that I would
have to take an extra injection to calm myself and to prevent
panic. The toxic paralysis of my legs also returned and, occasionally,
I had the most convincing hallucinations that there
were others present in the office with me. Once or twice I

[p. <i>158</i>]

My mother quickly suspected the truth, despite my attempts
to act normally and to attribute the more obvious symptoms
to my anxiety about the office. One night as I withdrew a
syringe and vial of demerol from their hiding place beneath
my mattress, I was stunned to hear my mother scream. Turning
toward the sound, I saw her standing in the darkness of
the doorway to my room. Sobbing hysterically, she collapsed
upon the floor next to my bed. She gasped that she knew. Why
was I doing this? she moaned. Why was I killing myself and
her too? Jean was due to arrive in only a few days, and if I
intended to go on using drugs I ought to tell Jean and stop
her from making the trip.


The sight of my mother on the floor in such profound distress
tore me apart. I kissed her moist cheek, I caressed her
grey-streaked hair, I calmed her, I promised that I would abstain,
honestly intending to keep my promise.


For the next few days, I diminished the dosage markedly in
a sincere attempt to withdraw. But the smaller doses failing
to satisfy me, my resolve weakened, and at length I could
think only of my need. The thought of going home under the
influence of the narcotic now frightened me, and I frequently
stayed away until late at night so that I could enter the apartment
under cover of darkness.


Jean arrived on the eighteenth of December for a one-week
visit. She told me that her mother was critically ill but that
she had insisted on Jean's making the trip.


I duly escorted Jean around town, introducing her to my
friends; but she sensed that something was amiss.


While visiting with her in her hotel room, I absented myself

[p. <i>159</i>]

During the afternoon of the fourth day of Jean's visit, I
used so much demerol that my legs became paralyzed and I
was unable to get up from the chair at the desk in my office.
Desperately seeking for time to overcome the paralysis, I
called Jean and my mother and told them that I would be
busy with a patient at the hospital and might not be able to
get away until late at night. At 10 p.m., still unable to walk
in a normal fashion, I was frightened to hear someone knocking.
Without thinking, I opened the door. It was my
mother...


When, later that night, I had pacified my mother, I left the
apartment to see Jean, fully prepared to tell her about my
addiction. I started to tell herI even mentioned that I had
a "drug problem"but when I saw the dull look of nescience
on her face, I lost heart and retreated from the subject.


On the day before Jean's departure, my mother gave a small
engagement party to which she invited family friends. Although
anticipation made me crave added amounts of demerol,
I managed to control myself and used barely enough of the
drug to prevent withdrawal symptoms. The party happily
turned out to be quite a success and I was able to enjoy the
fact that it afforded my mother a great deal of pleasure. In
the evening Jean and I sneaked away by ourselves, leaving an

[p. <i>160</i>]

I tried to abstain during the next five days but I was unable
to do so, and when I boarded the plane, I had with me a generous
supply of syringes and needles as well as three 30 c.c.
vials of demerol. As the plane approached closer to its destination,
I became filled with a causeless panic. Without even considering
the consequences, I administered two large doses of
10 c.c. of demerol during the latter half of the flight, injecting
the fluid directly through my trousers into my thigh while I
intently watched my seat companion sleeping soundly at my
side. When the plane landed in Newark, I was heavily drugged
and barely able to walk. The effort required to get off the
plane left me weak and soaked with perspiration.


Everyone in the little group waiting for me knew that something
was wrong. Jean and her father looked perplexed and
concerned. Lilian and Arthur, however, recognized the signs.
Declaring that I was obviously ill, they rushed me to their
house and put me to bed.


Then Lilian told me that, in accordance with the wish of
Jean's dying mother, there was to be a big engagement party
the following day. Both of us agreed that I was in no condition
to participate in the event. We also decided that Jean and her
father must be told the truth about me. My sister elected to
assume this unpleasant chore.


They were waiting downstairs in the living room. I heard
my sister's footsteps descending, then nothing. It was only
some minutes later that I realized that the house was strangely,
unnaturally silent, and that Jean and her father must now

[p. <i>161</i>]

At last the door to the bedroom opened and Jean and her
father came in. Obviously stunned, they announced their determination
to stick by me. Jean's father expressed his confidence
in me and said that he would help me in every possible
way. When he had left, Jean fell into my arms and I wept
while she reaffirmed her love.


The engagement party was canceled and the guests were
informed that I was ill with viral pneumonia and had been
advised to return to Florida immediately.


I was leaving; not for Florida, however, but for a city in
Kentucky I had never seen.


The United States Public Health Service Hospital for narcotic
addiction in Lexington, Kentucky, was known to me
only through vaguely remembered newspaper items which I
had encountered from time to time. I had never thought of it
as providing a solution to my problem. But my sister, who
only recently had read of Barney Ross's inspiring experience
at Lexington, urged me to commit myself there. I was not
averse to the idea. A retired U.S.P.H.S. officer, I had once
before been in a U.S.P.H.S. hospital and been treated only
deferentially. I had never been to a hospital set up especially
for addicts: it now seemed the logical place to go.


Approval for my immediate admission was arranged by
phone, and I was supplied with an additional quantity of
demerol sufficient to sustain me throughout the trip from
Newark.

[p. <i>162</i>]

There was one thing which I wanted to do before I left.
Bracing myself with a large dose of demerol, I walked downstairs
and across the lawn to Jean's house to pay my respects
to her dying mother.


When her pain-filled eyes had focused upon me, she became
embarrassed and, true to her sex, exclaimed that she was not
dressed properly to receive visitors. Bending to brush a stray
lock of hair from her forehead, I noticed the wan, transparent
quality of her skin, and when I kissed her I knew that I would
never see her again. The thought came to me that at least she
would be spared the ugly truth about me.


I left Newark on Friday evening, December 31, 1954, with
my brother-in-law Arthur in his car. Part way down, we
stopped overnight at a motel. I had a bottle of demerol and
two syringes, with which I continued to administer doses of
the drug to myself every four hours to prevent withdrawal.
I was careful to ration my supply so that it would last the
entire trip, and when I arrived in Lexington in the evening of
New Year's Day, 1955, I had but a single dose left.


Arthur drove me just inside the gate where, after we had
said our good-byes, a guard took charge of me. He led me
into the small brick guard house, ordered me to empty my
pockets of everything except a package of cigarettes and to
surrender the small suitcase I had brought with me, and then
picked up the phone to announce me. A station wagon pulled
up at the shelter and I was driven to the main building. A
nurse there ordered me to follow her down a hall. She stopped
at a locked metal door and opened it.


I entered the drab, oblong room and immediately the door
slammed shut behind me with a clang of finality.

[p. <i>163</i>]

There was a window in the small room and chairs against
both of the longer walls. Cigarette butts littered the floor. I
was not alone. There were three other people sitting, waiting
to be processed. One was a sharply dressed, slack-faced Negro
man who seemed about to keel over. Another was a white girl
chain-smoking cigarettes, which she lit one from the other
with trembling hands; her forehead was beaded with perspiration.
My third companion was a Negro man who talked cheerfully
to himself. He was smoking a cigarette with an almost
violent aplomb. His demeanor proclaimed that nothing could
faze him.


Nobody spoke to anybody else. I lit a cigarette and stared
at my feet, afraid. It was four hours since I had had my last
injection and withdrawal symptoms began to come over me. I
felt restless, anxious, my skin was hot and moist. I wondered
how long it would be before I received some medication. The
door opened and a male attendant roused and led out the
quieter of the two men. The girl and the other man were
called for separately after half hour intervals. After an hour
and a half, alone, trembling and last, I was summoned.


The attendant ushered me into an examining room, ordered
me to empty my pockets again and then to undress. A technician
took a chest X-ray and extracted blood for a blood
test. He gave me a pair of pajamas and a striped bathrobe and
told me to take a shower. The pajamas did not fit at all, and
for slippers I was given back my own shoes, which had in the
meantime been examined for concealed drugs.


The technician told me to go into a consultation room,
where after what seemed an eternal wait, a doctor appeared to
give me a general examination. I asked him to give me something
to relieve my withdrawal symptoms, which were becoming

[p. <i>164</i>]

The attendant then led me through empty halls to an elevator.
On an upper floor we got out and I was left at a nurse's
station at the entrance to the admitting ward.


The nurse took me into the ward, which consisted of a day
room and, beyond, a corridor off which was a row of small
rooms. One room near the day room and larger than the others
was the bathroom; it was always kept locked. The nurse
opened the door to a single, grey-walled room which was to
be mine. There was a bed and an end table inside. The window,
screened with a heavy wire mesh, overlooked the back
yard. When I had got into bed the nurse gave me a spoonful
of a yellowish liquid and I fell into a fitful sleep.


At 6:30 next morning I was awakened by the metallic clank
of the food wagons as they came off the elevator and the
talk and laughter of the patients who delivered the food. I put
on my bathrobe, picked up a food tray and held it out while a
patient-server slopped on the breakfast for that day.


I sat down at one of the three long tables in the day room. I
was not hungry. One can tell how well along in withdrawal
an addict is by the amount of food he eats. Through the early
and middle stages he has little or no appetite. But out, or almost
out of withdrawal, he becomes aware of the gnawing emptiness
in his stomach and is ravenous. While I played with my
food disinterestedly, there were men around me with piles of
eight and nine slices of bread on their trays.


I was withdrawn from my drug habit gradually in about
three days with the help of the yellowish liquid, which I
learned was a long-acting narcotic called methadon. I received
this drug three times a day, and although I experienced the

[p. <i>165</i>]

Others around me did not fare so well. One man was seized
with a convulsion as he sat eating in the day room; he keeled
over and lay on the floor thrashing until he was carried off to
his room and put to bed. Another, who had been using huge
quantities of barbiturates, woke up the entire ward by screaming
and banging on the walls of his room. He wouldn't let the
orderlies into his room and he finally had to be subdued and
put in restraints before being removed to adjacent Kolb Hall,
where "disturbed" patients were kept.


Although three out of four patients on the ward were
Negroes, and I was the only doctor patient present, I quickly
discovered that my social adjustment would be impeded less
by factors of race and class than by my inability to understand
much of the language used by those with whom I attempted to
strike up a conversation. Their speech was punctuated by unfamiliar
words and phrases, which I learned were a part of
"junkie" and prison language.


Having weathered the worst of the withdrawal period, I
began to apply myself diligently to the task of learning this
colorful argot by encouraging discussions, asking for definitions
and listing words with their definitions on scraps of
paper as I heard them. Within a week, I was able to understand
a great deal of what was said, as well as to interject a new
word or two into my own speech.


More important, as I spoke to the men around me, a whole
new world of information was unfolded to me and I realized
how little I knew about narcotics and addiction despite my
training in medicine.


Most of these men had "kicked" many habits "cold turkey"

[p. <i>166</i>]

It was the repeaters who knew the whole score. From the
shooting gallery, I learned that we would be transferred to a
gloomy section of wards known as "skid row" before being
assigned to permanent quarters in "population." Despite the
fact that the institution was technically registered as a federal
psychiatric hospital, most of the "patients" were really prisoners
under court sentence, and a small number of them had
never been addicted but had pleaded addiction in court to
escape long sentences and to be remanded to Lexington rather
than to more stringent penal institutions.


I heard about prisoners who had been bank robbers, musicians,
burglars, doctors, pimps and lawyers, some of whom
were "doing nickels" (serving sentences of five years) and
"dimes" (ten years); and about volunteers like myself who
had entered for the four-and-one-half months' "cure" and
were known as "winders" because they could figuratively
wind the key and leave whenever they wanted to, unlike the
prisoners doing time. Not all of the winders came to Lexington
to kick their habits. Some came only to cut down habits

[p. <i>167</i>]

My companions described to me their experiences with
various narcotics: opium smoking in the old days, heroin,
morphine, dilaudid, pantopon, cough syrups containing narcotics,
"speedballs" (mixtures of cocaine and heroin); and how
they "cooked up" (prepared for injection) their drugs and
used an eye-dropper instead of a syringe to administer them.
I learned the meanings of "mainliner" (one who injects narcotics
directly into a blood vessel), "skin-popping" (injecting
narcotics through the skin into a muscle), "monkey-on-my-back"
(symptoms of withdrawal), "strung out" (badly addicted),
"cop weight" (obtain narcotics), "horse" (heroin),
"hot shot" (overdose or adulterated narcotic), "joy-popping"
(occasional use of narcotics), "fall out" (unconsciousness due
to excessive use of narcotics), and "croaker" (doctor).


I learned of the cyclic relationship between narcotic addiction
and crime. Maintaining a habit with drugs such as heroin
might cost as much as twenty to seventy-five dollars a day,
forcing the user to become involved in illegal means of earning
money. Addicts sold their own clothes and belongings as well
as those of their family, stole from stores, cars, homes and
mailboxes, engaged in hustling, pimping, pickpocketing, mugging,
money change artistry, prostitution, confidence games,
fixed gambling and check forginganything but lawful work,
which though actually less strenuous and enervating, simply
did not pay enough to support a "habit."


More than one addict described the feeling of waking up
sick with withdrawal symptoms on a cold, snowy, wintry day,
desperately in need of a shot, penniless, forced to roam the

[p. <i>168</i>]

About a week after my admission, I and several other patients
in the admitting ward were given grey prison-type uniforms
to put on and escorted to skid row.


Skid row was actually only a subdivision of population; its
purpose was apparently to give new patients an introduction
to life at Lexington before they were assigned to permanent
living quarters. Beyond the guard's room were a day room and
two rows of wards called "drums," separated by a corridor.
The drums in one row were racially segregated from those in
the other. Between each two drums was a bathroom containing
two washbowls, a commode and a shower. Semi-partitions
separated the beds and bed-tables which were provided the
three to seven men in each drum.


On our arrival, we new men were given the customary welcoming

[p. <i>169</i>]

Most of the rules seemed to concern inspection, which occurred
once a week. Then floors had to be scrubbed, beds had
to be made with rigid care, army-style, every article had to be
in its place and every speck of dust had to be removed. Men
who failed to pass inspection could expect extra work details.
For "real wise guys" and repeated failures there were solitary
cells. Lights went out every night at ten, and whoever dared
open his mouth after that hour did so at the risk of punishment.


As I listened to the official speak, I knewalthough I had
physically left only one part of the hospital building for
anotherthat I was now actually in a prison. No doctors,
nurses or medical aides were anywhere in evidence. The khaki-clothed
security guards (called "hacks") were in full control.
The only way out of the area was screened off by a grill at
the guard's room.


The single most overwhelming impression now was one of
noise. I had never experienced anything like it. Out of the
drums, and, especially, out of the day room, poured a continual
torrent of raucousness from morning till night.


The day room was an enormous bleak space, empty except
for four tables with chairs. Except for those sitting at or lying
on the tables, and others standing at the windows the men
inside were in perpetual motion, slapping each other's palms
in greeting as they passed. No one seemed to be able to speak
in a normal voice. There was an unending tumult of roaring
laughter, shouted profanity, outbursts of anger and screaming.
Only when one of the hacks happened to come through did

[p. <i>170</i>]

It was difficult in all the noise to hear what anyone was
saying, but gradually I became aware that almost all of the
talk centered on four topics: dope, crime, Cadillacs and
women.


Especially dope. Many of the men were boisterous hoodlums
who had no desire to abstain from narcotics and could
hardly wait to pick up their old habits as soon as they left the
hospital. They told one another incredible stories of the huge
habits they had maintained. They knew, they averred, exactly
where they were going to get their first shot after they were
releasedless than an hour's ride from the city of Lexington.
They could, on the other hand, be brought low by being told,
"Why, you're not even a real junkie!" This was a terrible
charge, and the words always provoked an argument, if not a
fight.


Almost as much as they boasted about their habits, they
spoke magniloquently of the crimes they had committed to
pay for them. They lied shamelessly and loudlyabout the
big jobs they had pulled, about their connections in the underworld
and politics, and about their enormous wealth. It was
impossible to believe them, and yet they described in fervid
detail the custom-built Cadillacs they drove on the outside
and talked of the scores of beautiful women who were only

[p. <i>171</i>]

Second in intensity to the noise was the impression of color.
I could escape it only at rare intervals during the day. Coming
from an outside world where I had belonged to the white
majority, I now found myself a member of a racial minority.
Negro junkies dominated the world of Lexington. And their
ways added to the sense of alienation engendered by my surroundings
and the noise.


They spoke differently from people I had known before
a primarily connotative language in which the key word
seemed to be the adjective, "motherfg." The word conveyed
a myriad of meanings which covered the whole range
of thinking and feeling. They used other obscenities, oaths and
slang terms with an almost equal looseness of definition. Communication
was, therefore, always tenuous, and their speeches
frequently ended with the question, "Do you dig me?" The
response demanded was "I dig you." "Dig" meant something
more than "understand," which implies a passive receptivity.
A listener had to be able to reach down under the surface of
multi-definable words to fathom what was being said.


And they looked different. I saw Negro patients walking
around in panama straw hats and derbies with tops cut out
headdressesobtained from God knew where. Some of them
had metallic red hair, dyed that hue in the process of straightening
it with an ointment made of lye, potatoes and vaseline.
Others, to straighten their hair, wore women's stockings or
handkerchiefs on their heads. They appeared in these outlandish
fashions just as they spoke their strange language, without

[p. <i>172</i>]

I had been wondering for some days about the patients who
stood for long intervals before the windows of the day room.
Every now and then they suddenly became animated and
jerked their hands as in some sign language. Then I found out
what they were up to. The windows faced a parking lot.
Whenever nurses or women patients came into view the men
at the windows tried to communicate with them. The practice
was called "trembling" and was forbidden. It was punishable
by long hours of washing floors and windows. Persistent
tremblers were given solitary confinement.


At mealtimes the patients in skid row mingled freely with
the others in population, for there were no separate dining
facilities for the new men.


Before each meal the gate to skid row would be jammed
with patients jostling to get out first. So many were let out
at a time; then they might be held at a second gate. The dining
rooms lay off both sides of a single corridor. Food was served
cafeteria style and the rule was that one ate all that one took.


At my first dinner as a resident of skid row, I suffered an
attack of cramps. I was seated at table, looking disgustedly at
my tray. A guard ambled over and asked me why I wasn't
eating. I replied that I couldn't eat, whipped out a cigarette
and lit it. The man beside me kicked my foot in warning and
I immediately stamped out my cigarette. Littering floors was
tolerated no more than smoking, and when the guard had
walked away my neighbor informed me that now I was "going
to get it." However, he showed me how to dispose of the food
I could not eat by cramming it into my coffee cup and covering
it over with coffee from the coffee urn: coffee could be

[p. <i>173</i>]

There were a few bright moments at Lexington. The hospital
had a bank, in which the money taken from me at the entrance
gate had been deposited in my name. I could increase
my account by signing over postal money orders sent from
the outside. Once a week patients were allowed to buy books
of coupons worth one, two, five or ten dollars in merchandise
at the commissary: fountain pens, writing paper, ice-cream,
playing cards and, even, radios. Walking past the dining
rooms to Central Control, one came to a flight of steps leading
into the basement. Here was the recreation area, comprising a
basketball gym, a weight lifting room, two rooms with pool
tables and two bowling alleys. But it was rarely that I found
any of these facilities uncrowded.


Most of the time I spent with the knowledge that I was
in fact in prison and that the "cure" I was supposed to be
taking was scarcely more than a hideous travesty. I was told
in detail about the block of isolation cells and about the occasional
smuggling in of narcotics from the outside. I was
astounded to hear that patients who volunteered for experiments
in the research unit were "paid off" in narcotics. This
paradoxical practice of using narcotics as a reward in a hospital
for narcotic addicts, rather than time off from sentences,
better meals or more privileges, seemed something more than
stupid; it was evil.


Disillusioned by my surroundings and still feeling antagonistic
from withdrawal, I quickly became cynical and bitter.
I was greatly tempted to wind the key and sign myself out.


A cure, I had been told, took four and a half months. But
why, I now asked myself, this length of time and not three and

[p. <i>174</i>]

One night as I lay in bed, I heard a tremendous clang of
metal and the sound of running feet. Sounds of physical
activity continued for nearly an hour. Then shouted commands
and silence into the dawn. The next day I learned
that there had been a fight with water-filled paper bags in one
of the adjacent areas in population. The horseplay had quickly
got out of hand and mattresses and springs had been dumped
off beds and the beds overturned. Everybody even remotely
connected with the incident was given solitary.


It was on that day that I was transferred from skid row to
a four-bed room in population. By now all of my withdrawal
symptoms except insomnia had disappeared. The insomnia,
however, was persistent. Night after night I rose out of bed
to pace the "alley" (corridor). My bed was the farthest from
the door, and I always tiptoed out in a sweat of fear lest I
wake one of my roommates. In the bed next to mine slept a
husky bricklayer who was serving a fifteen-year sentence. He
felt toward me the characteristic hostility which most of the
prisoners felt toward winders. In addition, he worked hard
during the day laying bricks for a new building. I knew that
he needed his sleep and that he would show me no mercy if
I interrupted it.


Population was like skid rowonly more so. The noise was

[p. <i>175</i>]

Everybody in population was expected to work. I, however
applied for a job while still in skid row to get away from
my horrible environment. I spoke to one of the guards about
the possibility of doing some work in my field. He told me
where and when I should see the officer in charge of work
assignments. The latter put me in the research unit.


A few days after I entered population, I received a letter
from my sister informing me that my office had been closed
and the furniture and equipment put in storage. The same
letter carried the news that Jean's mother had died.


By nowalthough I continued in my doubts as to the
efficacy of the cure I was takingI had decided that I could
take whatever remained to be dished out to me. I had found
work to do, and although I was wary of establishing close
friendships, I had made my connections. I was beginning to
adjust to the environment.


As striking as the language and adornments of some of my
fellow patients were the sexual perverts who lived in the
hospital. There was, I now discovered, a large number of
"fags"both true homosexuals and homosexuals by adaptation:

[p. <i>176</i>]

Not long after I had started to work in the research unit,
my right leg began to swell from an injection of demerol I had
given myself on the outside with an unsterile needle. Soon I
developed a fever and other symptoms of toxicity. The doctor
who examined me at the clinic ordered me to surgery. I was
treated with penicillin and hot packs.


There was another physician-patient on the ward who
had broken his back falling down a flight of stairs. He had
taken demerol intravenously and had "tracks" (discolorations)
over the veins of his arms. The two of us talked about
many thingsour histories, symptoms, the drugs we had
used, the hospital and the doctors. He told me that most
doctors, when they used narcotics, perferred demerol. We
agreed that the reason for this was probably that the effects
produced by demerol were of short duration and could be
shaken off with relative ease. Both of us were united in our
feeling that Lexington could benefit from numerous changes,
and it was during one of our discussions of the facilities that
I coined the designation which seemed to sum up all of my
experiences: "hosprison."

[p. <i>177</i>]

The surgical ward was comfortable and secluded. The
surgeon, the assistant surgeon and the nurses were competent
and humane. There were female nurses to talk to. I received
change of pajamas twice a week. My insomnia passed away.


After about ten days I was able to hobble around and
get my own food tray and carry it to my bed. Soon the other
doctor-patient and I had formed a foursome with an old
junkie in a wheelchair and a Negro boy. In the afternoons
we played poker for chips, paying off in cigarettes. I read,
took naps and listened to the radio. Nowhere in Lexington
could life have been more pleasant.


Then, one morning, the surgeon summoned me to his
office. He said that I was now well enough to leave, that he
needed my bed and that it would be best for me to return to
population and get back into the swing of things. I had heard
that a patient working in surgery was about to leave and I
asked if I could have his place. But I was told that someone
else was in line for the job and I couldn't have it unless this
other applicant changed his mind.


So I returned to population and, without much hope that
I would get one, applied for a single room. Single rooms were
at a premium and usually only old-timers managed to secure
them. But luck was with me. Not only did I get the desirable
accommodation, but three days later I received notification
to report to work in surgery.


I worked in surgery from this time on until I left the hospital.
Some of the cases I now encountered were different from
any I had had to deal with in my previous practice in hospitals.


A large number of patients were admitted with multiple
abscesses on their hands, arms and legs. The majority of them
were women from Chicago who had used what they assumed

[p. <i>178</i>]

My work sometimes took me outside the hospital itself
to Kolb Hall to attend one of the disturbed patients there who
needed surgical consultation. I always went in the company of
a staff doctor, usually by hospital station wagon. The environment
of Kolb Hall was considerably more cheerful than that
of the hospital. The walls were painted in pleasant colors,
the chairs were comfortable, and there were books and magazines
in plentiful supply. In contrast with the noisy drums in
population, the atmosphere seemed more rational.


Downstairs, in the basement, however, was "rats' row,"
where the informers were kept. By its very nature, Kolb Hall
provided maximum security and thus was the most suitable
area for patients who could mingle with their fellows only at
the risk of life and limb.


I clearly remember my first visit to rats' row. The basement
quarters were a uniform drab green. The inmates did
not speak to one another; they hated one another, they hated

[p. <i>179</i>]

The staff surgeon and I had been summoned to attend an
informer who had attempted to commit suicide by slashing
his neck and wrists with a razor. He was soon to be discharged
and he was mortally afraid that once he got outside
he would be killed. Now he lay on his bed bleeding profusely.
Without anaesthesia, we applied a clamp to his neck and
fastened tourniquets to his arms. He fought us as we attempted
to carry him out of the room so that he could receive definitive
surgical treatment in the hospital; for in the hospital
he would also be in danger.


I went to rats' row three times afterwards, and each time
I was overcome by a feeling that I was about to descend into
hell.


In line with my desire to benefit as much as possible from
my stay at Lexington, I had meanwhile applied for psychotherapy.
I was guarded in my expectations, and yet, for the
sake of those on the outside who loved me, I did not want to
leave any stone unturned. I knew, at the same time, that the
success ratio of psychotherapy with narcotics addicts was
pitifully low. In my inmost mind I resisted the idea of
psychotherapy, rationalizing that I did not want to change
my whole personality to overcome a single defect: I did not
know that I was not yet ready for this kind of help.


As the weeks passed my resistance grew, and when, after
seven weeks, I was finally called to my first session with the
psychotherapist, I was angry for having been made to wait

[p. <i>180</i>]

Nevertheless, I was definitely feeling better and my attitude
toward Lexington and my "cure" changed markedly. In place
of my shallow cynicism, I had the feeling that I was gaining
in strength as a result of my resolve to stick it out. I felt that
the horrible picture I had seen of what happened to drug
addicts would remain with me afterwards to deter me from
becoming a part of it again. I saw the stupidity of addiction
and recognized the fact that it robbed me of my capacity to
enjoy life.


In this process of clarifying my opinions, I also came to
identify myself with many of the things I saw and heard, and
I knew that, at best, the prognosis of my drug problem was
uncertain. With this in mind I decided that it would be unfair
to lead Jean into a future shadowed by the imminence of
drug recidivism; and so, despite my love for her, I acted to
terminate our relationship. I sent Jean a letter in which I
compared myself to Sisyphus forever rolling his huge stone
up the mountain in Hades. I could offer no assurance, I wrote,
that those forces which had made me fall before might not
overcome me in the future. For both our sakes I must break
our engagement. This would be my last letter.


In the weeks that followed I received several letters from
jean in which she declared her refusal to accept my decision
until I articulated it in her presence. I answered none of these
letters. As spring came on, I began to sit in the open courtyard

[p. <i>181</i>]

Junk was always the prime topic of conversation. Another
favored topic was the distorted and erroneous notions which
many on the outside held about narcotics and addiction. That
narcotics addicts are sex fiends and rapistsa myth always
being revived by the presswhereas under the influence of
narcotics, addicts have little if any desire to be near a woman.
That if an addict really loved his family he would stop using
drugs, whereas there is no connection between the two particularities.
That physicians know all about narcotics and
should therefore never become addicted, when, in fact, the
average physician knows very little about narcotics and, like
other people, possesses all the basic human weaknesses, which
are constantly being put to test by exposure to narcotics.


I joined frequently in discussions concerning government-controlled
clinics for the distribution of narcotics to confirmed
addicts, discussions which exhausted all aspects of the
subject many times: the effects of such institutions on international
smuggling and local crime, the meaning of the
phrase "confirmed addict," the influence of the clinics upon
the young, their failure in the United States in the past and
their current use in other countries. A majority of the inmates
favored establishment of the clinics for obvious reasons. But
there was a minority who hoped to stop using narcotics who
were dead set against them, for such clinics make reform an
impossible concept.


As the vernal evenings grew warmer we stayed in the
courtyard until 10 p.m. curfew, seeking out the cool breezes.
Occasionally an airplane entered the square patch of inky
sky like a visitor from a distant planet and we watched it with

[p. <i>182</i>]

As my discharge date, May 15, 1955, drew near, I began
to develop "shortitis" (symptoms of anticipation)impatience,
restlessness and insomnia. Now the passage of time
decelerated to a snail's pace ... but it did not stop. At last,
amid such remarks as "I'll see you when you get back" and
"Don't stay away too long," I walked through the gates of
the hospital clutching the little certificate which proclaimed
to one and all that I was "cured."


I entered the Pullmanette, unwrapped the bottle of scotch
I had bought in the liquor store near the railroad station and
took a long, slow draught. I had never liked the taste, but
liquor had always symbolized freedom to me, and somehow it
felt right to be holding a bottle in my hand as the train moved
slowly northwards.


I went directly to my sister's house. Within an hour of my
arrival, the doorbell rang. It was Jean. Just returned from
school, she was dressed in a pink flannel skirt, pink cashmere
sweater and black and white high-heeled shoes. At the first
sight of her wholesome and radiant beauty, I mentally released
myself from my vow to exclude her from my life, and within
a few moments we were in each other's arms.


My relationship with Jean clearly reestablished, I had
again to face the twin issues of marriage and a means of
making a living. Jean wanted an early wedding and my family,
probably motivated by the notion that matrimony was the
answer to all emotional and personality problems of bachelorhood,

[p. <i>183</i>]

But I did not speak out: I could resist my own deep desire
to marry Jean no better than the avalanche of well-meant
advice from others which propelled me toward the altar. In
the end, I accepted the July 3 wedding date rather passively,
earnestly hoping that all of my doubts were unfounded.


In June, while preparations for the wedding were being
made by our families, Jean and I motored to Miami to look
for an office and an apartment. Since I still loved Florida best,
jean had persuaded me to return to private practice there;
as far as I was concerned she herself was the element which
had been missing before.


After hunting for some days, we selected a beautiful office
in a new building and a lovely apartment whose large picture
windows overlooked the inland waterway. We spent most of
our leisure exchanging dreams of happiness and success. But
there were moments when the old fears and doubts about
private practice came back to me, even as we spoke.


We returned to Newark, were married in July, and then
headed for a one-week honeymoon stay at the Castle Harbor
Hotel in Bermuda. The hotel was landscaped with tropical
gardens, possessed a golf course, a large swimming pool,
a private beach and a boat dock. The people of the island
were clean, proud and intelligent; we saw no beggars or filth.
We shopped along Front Street in Hamilton and admired

[p. <i>184</i>]

Once ensconced in our new apartment, I engaged in the
now-familiar problem of setting up an. office. This time there
was less to do, for the space had already been partitioned and
I had only to take the furniture from my previous office
out of storage to decorate my consultation and waiting rooms.


But I still did not have my laboratory or medical equipment
and I had no idea when I would get it. Jean tried to help by
offering advice and solace, but her lack of understanding of
the problem only served to increase my disquietude. Day
by day I became more surly and ill-tempered. Late in September
we changed our apartment for one nearer to the office
and the work involved in moving relieved my anxiety for a
few days. However, it soon returned with even greater force
and before long I was in a torment of restlessness and ennui.


On the first day in October, 1955, my narcotic license
arrived and I immediately obtained bulk supplies of demerol
and began to use it. My tolerance for the drug seemed to have
increased: I started out with doses of 6 to 8 c.c. and rapidly
went up to 10 c.c. Before long I was using 75 c.c. of demerol
a day. My thighs swelled, ached and became covered with
puncture marks from the oversize needles. The large doses
resulted in a rapid deterioration of personality. I became ever
more sullen and emotionally unstable. I spoke little except
to find fault with everything Jean did. Pale and drawn, I
spent most of the evenings in my bedroom "nodding" while
I pretended to read. I lost all interest in the physical component

[p. <i>185</i>]

I tried to absent myself from the apartment as often as I
could and I avoided visiting my mother whenever possible.
In the evenings I left the house presumably to purchase cigarettes
and disappeared for hours. During these intervals I
drove around in a drugged trance under the influence of
repeated injections of demerol, falling asleep at the wheel
while waiting for traffic lights to change, becoming involved
in numerous minor accidents, and rousing suddenly to find
myself driving through some distant, unfamiliar section of the
city late at night, wondering what I was doing there. Once
I drove up onto a sidewalk and crashed into a telephone
pole.


Jean, alone, frightened to death, not wanting to worry my
mother, did not know which way to turn or what to do. After
about a week she felt certain enough to ask pointed questions
about my behavior; I admitted that I was using demerol again
but promised to abstain. I sincerely meant tobut I did not.
Instead I only continued taking the drug more discreetly.


Now I hid my vials and syringes beneath the seat of my
car. I dreamed up plausible excuses to escape alone for a few
minutes to replenish my supply of demerol. I injected the
drug into my thighs as I drove the car and bought new
undergarments to replace the ones which had become
stained with blood, changing clothes in public bathrooms or
in the car itself.


A few days later Jean again accused me of using the drug
and I responded with an indignant denial, expressing displeasure

[p. <i>186</i>]

I deteriorated more and more. Now I communicated with
Jean only by arguing with her. The weakness and paralysis
of my legs bothered me continually. I frequently pitched
headlong onto the floor while attempting to get out of bed.
Once I slashed my arm on a drinking glass which I knocked
over; although I felt no pain the blood spurted out with force
and I was obliged to use a pressure bandage and a tourniquet.
Another time, at night, I fell into a puddle of mud in the
street outside our apartment and was unable to get up until
Jean came to my aid.


After three weeks Jean declared that she could bear the
situation no longer and that she was going to call her father
and my sister. I begged her not to and promised to abstain if
she would help me.


It was still morning when I disposed of my supply of
demerol. Then I sat down, intending to stay in the apartment
until all of the withdrawal symptoms had passed. Within six
hours the symptoms came over me and I felt an irresistible
craving for the drug. In a panic I donned my clothes and
prepared to leave. Jean threw herself against the door, weeping
and pleading with me not to go out. But I would not be
interfered with. Roughly I thrust her out of the way, threatening
her with violence if she dared to stop me. Bewildered,
defeated and unable to witness my suffering any longer,
she asked that I let her go with me. Despite her hatred for
the narcotic, she drove me to a pharmacy where I could obtain
a new supply because she feared that I might become involved
in an accident.


That evening, however, Jean did call Newark, and the

[p. <i>187</i>]

What happened was this.


Jean and my sister had left the house. It was evening. My
father-in-law was frying some eggs for me, for I had not eaten
all day. While he was thus engaged in the kitchen I picked up
the telephone in the hall and called a pharmacy, requesting
delivery of three 30 c.c. bottles of demerol. I gave instruction
that my bell should not be rung but that the package
should simply be left outside the door. I ate my eggs; then,
when my father-in-law was out of the way, I picked up the
package and went into my room.


I immediately began to inject myself with huge doses of
10 to 12 c.c. When they returned, both Jean and Lilian realized
at once that I was markedly under the influence of the narcotic.
There ensued another scene filled with despair and
vituperation in which my sister declared that I was just no
good and advised Jean to divorce me. I listened to everything
as from afar.


At last I was aware that they were trying to persuade me
to enter a hospitalany hospitalto obtain help. After coldly
ignoring their words for a long time, I promised to think the
idea over. I then secluded myself in my bedroom, where I
remained throughout the following day and night injecting
myself at will. During that period I was almost completely
paralyzed. When not terrorized by eerie nightmares, I lay

[p. <i>188</i>]

In the morning of the second day, as my supply of the drug
began to dwindle, I decided to let myself be admitted to a
hospital, and after scattering a number of notes saying, "I
love you, Jean," about the room, I entered the living room
and announced that I was ready to go. While Lilian and Jean's
father were making arrangements for my admission to a private
hospital, I found an opportunity to speak with Jean alone;
I affirmed my love for her and asked her to wait for me. In
response, she said that she would wait for me and that she
still loved me, but that her feeling for me could never again
be the same. Her impassive expression and apathetic tone
frightened me, and I recalled something a prisoner at Lexington
had once said: "A woman will wait for you longer than
you think but not as long as you think."

