TRANSCRIPT OF AUDIO FILE:
______________________________________________________________________________
BEGIN TRANSCRIPT:
THERAPIST: Come in.
CLIENT: Hi.
THERAPIST: How are you doing?
CLIENT: Good. How are you?
THERAPIST: Good. How are you?
CLIENT: I'm good. Sorry about last week.
THERAPIST: That's okay.
CLIENT: I actually had a visit from Ferñao. He came to visit Chicago.
THERAPIST: Oh my God.
CLIENT: Yeah, I tell you. But what happened is, I don't even remember what we talked… which is probably why I should write things down.
THERAPIST: What I have here. What we talk about here?
CLIENT: Yeah, but I mean like in terms of him. And him coming to Chicago and everything.
THERAPIST: Yeah. We were talking about… he was thinking…
CLIENT: He didn't call…
THERAPIST: It was about that whole thing. It was about that whole thing, and then we're back – if he had changed his mind…it was kind of about that. And he was planning on going to grad school here. [0:01:02]
CLIENT: Yeah. So basically the week that I think I saw you he was preparing all the stuff to be admitted into this program. It was a really confusing week. And then in the end, he was – on Thursday or Friday I think it was – he was looking at flights. And they were reasonably priced. And so he was like, 'I think I'll just come on Saturday.' It was so random. 'I found a flight. It's like 450, which is good because then in Euro it's even less. And, he was like, 'I'll bring the application and we can submit it at the school and then see what they say and have a better idea, because we're in person.'
So he wound up coming, which was… I couldn't even believe it. It was literally Thursday night (overlapping at 0:01:47) and it was like, 'This is crazy.' And it made me feel even crazier about the way I (inaudible at 0:01:52).
So he came. But what happened was he also wanted to find an apartment. So… [0:02:00]
THERAPIST: So he's really committed to this.
CLIENT: Yeah. So we wound up …
THERAPIST: When is the program start… When can he go to school?
CLIENT: In September. Well really September 28th, it begins.
THERAPIST: What program is this?
CLIENT: But it is not a graduate program. It is a continuing education program. And it is just for English. Learning English.
THERAPIST: He want to improve his English first.
CLIENT: …first. And the apply to graduate school. So we were looking for apartments for three days, all day. 10 apartments a day. It was a little bit difficult because he's foreign. So he doesn't have a social security number. He has no credit here. All these things that they usually …
THERAPIST: What do they do for foreigners?
CLIENT: They basically told him that he has to pay 12 months rent up front.
THERAPIST: Is there any way his parents could sign, and their credit would be…
CLIENT: No. Because they don't have credit here.
THERAPIST: And you would have to be his …
CLIENT: And I have really bad credit. I have no money in the bank. [0:03:01]
THERAPIST: And is he willing to do that?
CLIENT: Yeah. He's doing it. So that's – he can do it. Lucky for him. Whatever.
THERAPIST: So you found a place?
CLIENT: We found a place. Really nice.
THERAPIST: Is it close to… You're going to continue living at home and then… Because your sister got the apartment downtown years ago. The whole debacle.
CLIENT: The thing is, I thought about it, and she's never going to be there. And I'm probably going to end up working at the school where my mom works – like substitute teaching. Well I definitely am. And it is next door to the apartment. So I'll probably end up staying there more than she does. And it'll just work itself out, I think.
THERAPIST: And you probably going to stay a bunch of times.
CLIENT: Yeah and she's (overlapping at 0:03:40). And she's probably going to stay with her boyfriend. So it will be fine.
So anyway, we looked mainly, not really in this area because he thought better to be closer to school. But in the end we found an apartment. It is so nice, though.
THERAPIST: Is that like Northwest? [0:04:00]
CLIENT: Yeah. I don't know how you feel about Northwest.
THERAPIST: It's a pretty good location. Whatever. (laughing)
CLIENT: It is kind of downtown, whatever. He doesn't care because he's … whatever. But the apartment's a penthouse. It is a small building. It is seven floors, but it is a penthouse. And it is a duplex apartment, one bedroom, with a balcony on the first floor, and a terrace that is amazing. It is so nice. It is really big. And it has access to this bigger terrace that is on the roof. It is really, really cool. It has a view of the Empire State Building on the water. That's big.
THERAPIST: Is this a very expensive apartment?
CLIENT: It is… it is 2500 a month.
THERAPIST: For a one bedroom? That is a lot.
CLIENT: For here, for Chicago I think that is a steal, actually. For a duplex with a terrace and that stuff. But this wound up being a problem too because… It is going to work out, but I don't know. This real estate agent got involved and you kind of didn't like her, but once you're with them you can't especially if you apply with them, you can't really – there's nothing you can do. You're just with them.
The people who lived there before didn't want to give their security deposit up and the management company was going to use the security deposit to pay the real estate agent, and this whole nonsense mess. But it is going to… in the end we worked something out with the tenants.
THERAPIST: Is he still here?
CLIENT: He's not still here. He went home on Sunday. But he's going to get it in the end, so it's fine. So that day we were supposed to meet, I completely forgot and we were really looking for apartments.
THERAPIST: I think that is a forgivable excuse.
CLIENT: Well I don't know. It depends on your perspective.
THERAPIST: You're living your life. That's what the goal of therapy…
CLIENT: I know. It was great having him here. It was just like, I don't know. It is a little stressful because every time – well when he was first here for three weeks just visiting in August it was just a lot of sight-seeing and running around and dah, dah, dah, dah. Whatever. And this time it was a lot of running around, looking for apartments, get the application together. So I'm looking forward to when he's here and it's not going to be constant craziness and chaos.
THERAPIST: So he's leaving his job as… he's in finance?
CLIENT: He – his family has a business. It is a real estate business. He works basically doing that. So he's leaving a family business. It is not the biggest deal.
THERAPIST: So it sounds like he's really excited to come.
CLIENT: Yeah I think he's really excited.
THERAPIST: So he's going to be here very soon.
CLIENT: He's going to be here – well he has his appointment with the visa people on the 18th. And they say basically it takes seven days, more or less. So probably by the 25th, the 26th he'll be here. So it's good.
THERAPIST: That's crazy. [0:07:04]
CLIENT: I know. It's crazy.
THERAPIST: So do you have any anxiety about him coming?
CLIENT: Yeah a lot. A lot.
THERAPIST: What would you like to work on today?
CLIENT: Well the thing is…
THERAPIST: Well we have today and tomorrow, so…
CLIENT: I know. I'm happy about that actually. Well the thing is I wanted to tell you – so yesterday we had a little issue with the phone again. The thing is, I was working at my friends store again – I don't know if I told you…
THERAPIST: Yeah that is where it was last time, wasn't it?
CLIENT: Yeah. And it gets really boring there at a certain time. And I think it adds to the anxiety because I just want to get out of there anyway. But I did the worksheet, because …
THERAPIST: Oh. So that worksheet helped.
CLIENT: Yeah. The think is, is it helped for sure. It wasn't like I was completely free of all anxiety and worry but it definitely did not reach the state that it reached the last time. It didn't reach that level.
THERAPIST: Do you have the sheet? Or you don't have it with you? [0:08:01]
CLIENT: I do. I think I do actually. I've give it to you. It is somewhere. In this nightmare.
THERAPIST: It looks neat from up here.
CLIENT: Oh really? It's not. By the way, I bought this and I'm obsessed with it.
THERAPIST: You like it?
CLIENT: I really like it, it is really helpful.
THERAPIST: Good.
CLIENT: Yeah I'm going to get more books once I finish it. But anyway so it helps. And also – I had a little spat with – two little spats with this… one when he had already got home on Monday. And one when he was here. They were little things. It is also still like we're getting, we're learning about each other still. I can't really recognize his annoyance face and his angry face and differentiate. But I think it has been helping me deal with those things too because I didn't get as crazy as I feel like I would have before. [0:09:04]
THERAPIST: Okay so you…
CLIENT: Again not perfect.
THERAPIST: So why don't you give me an example, the situation at the store, I'm sorry. Do you not want to find it?
CLIENT: No I have it. Specifically…unless I left it there. Pretty embarrassing. (laughter)
THERAPIST: Don't think crazy…
CLIENT: He didn't call me. Psycho. I'll find it.
THERAPIST: I was thinking, when you were in the store it was a very similar situation. That you had called him and he didn't return… or he was supposed to… Was it the same situation? He was supposed to call you and he hadn't?
CLIENT: Yeah. He had to go somewhere, he was eating at a restaurant…
THERAPIST: And you knew that.
CLIENT: I knew it. And he said, 'I'll call you.' I said, 'Call me when you leave…'
Oh here it is. And the only think I didn't really remember how to fill out was the constructive behaviors. [0:10:00]
THERAPIST: That is okay. You don't always have to fill out everything, wow I like this.
CLIENT: I was really nervous. I had to fill out as much as possible.
THERAPIST: And the emotion you were feeling. Wow there is a lot of emotions.
CLIENT: Well the thing is, it is usually the strongest is always anxiety. But there is a little twinge of the other, so I just added them. It is not like severe anger, or whatever I put.
THERAPIST: And I think that is very important. But I think also something that is going to be helpful for you is to realize that there are different irrational beliefs for different emotions.
So sometimes it is good to have a clear emotion, and then you can work for each one. The way that we are trained to do it is, to go with the emotion that is probably the most dysfunctional. The one that is really the strongest emotion.
CLIENT: I think in my case it would almost always be anxiety.
THERAPIST: Okay so we'll go with anxiety. So let me make sure that these irrational beliefs go. So when you're feeling anxious, what are the thoughts that you're having?
CLIENT: With this specific situation?
THERAPIST: Yeah. What were the thoughts that you were having? [0:11:04]
CLIENT: The thoughts.
THERAPIST: Just the thoughts. Yeah.
CLIENT: That …
THERAPIST: You're feeling anxious. He didn't call. He said he was going to call.
CLIENT: Generally, that something is wrong. Something is really wrong. Specifically from that he's out with friends and he doesn't care about calling.
THERAPIST: So Ferñao's (ph) out with friends and he doesn't even care that I'm waiting for him to call.
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: And if he didn't care that you were waiting for the call, what would that mean?
CLIENT: That he doesn't like me anymore.
THERAPIST: So that is the one that goes with the anxiety. Say, because you have three different ones here. 'He must call because he said he would.'
Does that make you anxious, or is that the one that makes you a little mad and jealous or something like that? [0:12:02]
Because I think if I was thinking, 'He must call because he said he would' I guess you could get anxious from that.
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: It is like you're a concrete person where the rules are the rules, are the rules. But I don't know if that is so much your case, or it is more like, 'He said he should call. What the hell.'
CLIENT: It is a little bit more anger, I think. Probably anger.
THERAPIST: So they can be related to different ones. And that is it awful that he hasn't called. And then because it is clearly wrong. And that could be more anger again because it (inaudible at 0:12:29). But it is awful that he hasn't called. Do you get into that because you had in the past, a tendency to get into catastrophic thinking.
So he doesn't call. That is kind of like, if he doesn't call then he doesn't care about me. If he doesn't care about me then he doesn't like me. If he doesn't like me then why am I even in this relationship.
CLIENT: Right. Then this is all worthless. Why am I doing all this work for his apartment, to help him, if he doesn't like… and it goes on and on and on.
THERAPIST: So there is mainly it is the catastrophic thinking.
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: And then the …
CLIENT: Definitely the catastrophic…
THERAPIST: Well maybe there is three, because is there the 'I can't stand that he hasn't called. I can't stand this.'? [0:13:06]
CLIENT: That was the only thing that was a little bit less than the last times.
THERAPIST: Good. Because you knew you could stand it.
CLIENT: Exactly.
THERAPIST: You had stood it last week.
CLIENT: Clearly this sucks and I hate it. And I kind of, it is giving me anxiety, but it is not the end of the world. Even if the worst thing happens I'll survive. That was the one thing that was a little bit better this time.
THERAPIST: So mainly this time it was really the catastrophizing (sp).
CLIENT: Yeah it is definitely that.
THERAPIST: The catastrophizing and the self-damning. Right?
CLIENT: Yeah. Yeah definitely.
THERAPIST: So it was mainly the catastrophizing and the self-damning. So that – he didn't call, obviously I'm a piece of shit.
CLIENT: Right. Exactly.
THERAPIST: And if he doesn't get rid of me because I'm completely worthless.
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: So which one do you think is stronger? The one that makes you most upset? The one that causes the most anxiety. [0:14:04]
CLIENT: Of those two?
THERAPIST: Yeah. I guess they are kind of… I can see how they are related; 'If he doesn't like me, blah, blah, blah, he's never going to call, and this relationship is never going to work.' That is more the catastrophizing. 'Now what is all the point? Why is he even coming here? He says he's going to come. Is he really not going to come?' Is it mostly the catastrophizing that gets you so anxious?
Or it is the 'He doesn't like me. I'm such a piece of shit.'?
CLIENT: The thing is, when I read the book to – and they describe, I forget what they call it – universal self acceptance – or something.
THERAPIST: Yeah USA. Unconditional.
CLIENT: (overlapping at 0:14:43) unconditional is the opposite of that. I recognize that I do that, but I don't see myself saying the words – 'I'm worthless. I'm a piece of shit.' Even though I know what I am saying is equal to that.
THERAPIST: What do you think, it doesn't have to be the same. [0:15:01]
CLIENT: I don't know. Like, I'm not good enough basically. Something is wrong with me.
THERAPIST: So it's not like, it's not like 'I have no worth', but 'I'm not worth him.'
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: Or, 'I'm not worthy enough to him. I have some worth to myself, but not enough for him.'
CLIENT: Yeah. Yeah.
THERAPIST: And I think that goes in the same regard. But I see how there is a differentiation.
CLIENT: That is why it is difficult for me to say, 'Well it is definitely the one that I'm worthless.' Because I think in a lot of ways I do feel I must feel that way about myself. Because after reading the book and seeing examples, I do do a lot of those things. But it is really difficult to say, 'Yeah it is because I think I'm worthless.' Do you know what I mean?
THERAPIST: Do you think the umm… Do you think, is it anxiety that he thinks you're worthless?
CLIENT: I think maybe that's it.
THERAPIST: So it's like…
CLIENT: Because we talked about that last time too. That the way I feel about how other people feel about me and view me. I think it is more that. [0:16:05]
THERAPIST: Yeah that 'he doesn't think I'm worthy.' And then I feel bad because of that.
CLIENT: Right.
THERAPIST: And it is the worry that he may be losing the feelings for you? You're not thinking, 'Okay he definitely doesn't love me. And he thinks I'm worthless.' Because that would probably cause you to be depressed. But the emotion that you're having is anxiety.
So it actually goes back to the catastrophic thing again. That this could happen. Or do you think that at the time he's out partying or out not calling you…
CLIENT: Which he doesn't even do. So it is even more irrational.
THERAPIST: But your thoughts at the time, is it that 'He's not calling right now so maybe he's losing interest, and maybe if he lost interest eventually he wouldn't think I'm worthy to stay. And then it wouldn't be worth the relationship.'
CLIENT: Yeah. It is that.
THERAPIST: So it is all, it all goes back to the catastrophic thinking. Right?
CLIENT: Yeah. [0:17:02]
THERAPIST: Because it is not, 'He thinks I'm worthless that is why he hasn't called.' Because if you felt that, you probably wouldn't feel anxiety, you would feel depressed.
CLIENT: Yeah. And I don't think the main one is depression.
THERAPIST: Do you agree with my hypothesis?
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: That it is worry about the potential of him losing faith in this relationship – or losing his amorous feelings that he had for you. So it is kind of catastrophizing. Which one is stronger? It's hard, I guess we'll go with – I think it is all one big catastrophe. Because he hasn't called. He hasn't called so then it means that he really might not be that serious. And then when he comes here he's going to lose interest all together, if he's not even thinking about it while he's away from me. It is like this pattern.
CLIENT: I think that personally, generally speaking, my issues that I'd like to work on. I think the unconditional self-acceptance entire issue is one. But I think that this is a really big one, and could be implemented a lot just in everyday life. I'm sure I do things like that with other situations that maybe I don't even realize because they're not as extreme. [0:18:20]
THERAPIST: But they are related to your worth issues, right?
CLIENT: Right. That is what I think.
THERAPIST: You lose your worth if someone's behavior changes.
CLIENT: Right. Exactly.
THERAPIST: Or you view someone losing their worth of you. Someone viewing you differently.
CLIENT: Right.
THERAPIST: And if someone viewed you differently, then you would feel like shit.
CLIENT: Right .
THERAPIST: But you have to wait for that to happen.
CLIENT: Exactly, yeah.
THERAPIST: And you're always worried that it's going to happen.
CLIENT: Exactly. That is the thing. I'm always worried about these things.
THERAPIST: You're always worried that people's feelings about you are going to change, or someone is going to view you differently. And then you will be worthless. Especially if someone you loved, the feelings changed.
CLIENT: Right.
THERAPIST: Okay so how do we dispute this. You were saying – because we're disputing, 'Is is really a catastrophe?' So we now we have to change – is it really a catastrophe? Because a lot of these your disputing was the awful. And they are good because I think all these were emotions that you have. But at the time we need to dispute the most pressing one first, which is the catastrophic thinking. [0:19:22]
So I guess is that logical, because he didn't call, that your relationship is coming to an end?
CLIENT: Right.
THERAPIST: So you can say…
CLIENT: That is very illogical. Yeah.
THERAPIST: Because he didn't call this once, that you're whole relationship is unraveling.
CLIENT: Right. And I think that I got there. I definitely… I don't think that I wrote it, but I got there. I was like, 'Okay this is illogical.' I think that helps me out with the other thing I told you that helps.
THERAPIST: Yeah and the third one you have that one. 'Even if he doesn't call it doesn't mean anything (overlapping at 0:19:52). From this one event.
CLIENT: It is meaningless. Yeah. [0:20:00]
THERAPIST: Okay. And I think something that can help you is the functional one, which is, 'How does this help?' Your goal is to have a successful relationship. And to feel good throughout the relationship.
CLIENT: Right.
THERAPIST: How does thinking, just allowing myself to engage in this catastrophic thinking, how does this help the future of my relationship with Ferñao (ph)? Can I call him Ferñao? (ph).
CLIENT: Yeah, yeah, yeah. Please. I think that I actually have gotten better, because I have – I've Ferñao's voice in my head telling me that in certain situations in the past two weeks, I guess. And so I think I have gotten a little bit better about thinking about it. But maybe not perfect. Do you know what I mean? Maybe it is not coming up as quickly as it should, or maybe I'm not thinking about it as much as I should, but it has definitely entered my mind.
THERAPIST: And I think that is always a good one to keep in mind because you know, if it went down to the moment and he was like, 'You need to stop or I'm going to walk out this door.' You'd probably stop and be like, 'This is stupid. I don't know why I'm getting so crazy.' But you allow yourself to get into this ruminative behavior. [0:21:10]
CLIENT: Right.
THERAPIST: So we have identified that and we know why it's not good. But now we need something that is going to get you out of it. Because just because you know it is not good, and you have the statements like, 'Just because this is happening it is not positive or negative.' But when you say something like, 'How is thinking this going to help me?' 'Is thinking this going to have him call me faster? And even if he calls me, does that mean my relationship is safe?'
Does it really come down to that you want to be able to control everything in your life, and make sure it goes the way you want it to go?
CLIENT: I think we're seeing some signs of that. (chuckling) I feel that too. When it doesn't happen it's like, but…but…, and I don't know how to function because I want it to happen the way I want it. I know that it can't be that way in life. [0:22:02]
THERAPIST: You mean you don't have the power to control how (inaudible at 0:22:05)
CLIENT: Yeah I know. And I know that, but yet I still go get crazy.
THERAPIST: But you don't believe that because you believe that, 'If I worry enough, I can control it.' (laughing)
CLIENT: Yeah. I think that – yeah I don't know why.
THERAPIST: 'If I could just ruminate on this a little bit longer, the situation will be solved.'
CLIENT: Or even, it will change. Nothing is going to happen.
THERAPIST: So you know that it is not going to change if you ruminate. You know he's not going to call you any faster. You know your relationship is not going to be any more successful. And it just drives you absolutely crazy.
CLIENT: Mm hmm.
THERAPIST: So what can you think instead? How about, ruminating on this is not going to help. Let's go find something else to do. How about, ruminating is not enjoyable. When I'm miserable it doesn't help our relationship.
The goal in a relationship is for both people to be happy, and right now you're going to be separate for a couple of weeks, right? And even when you're together, when he's in school there are going to be nights when he is going to be working, he might join a study group and see new girls in America. And you won't be the only American woman in his life. [0:23:06]
CLIENT: I know. I've thought about that too.
THERAPIST: So is acting like a crazy person help your relationship when you call every five minutes, 'Where are you?', 'Where are you?'
CLIENT: No it's not.
THERAPIST: So probably - what is going to be attractive to him, you think?
CLIENT: Umm… well certainly if I'm not being obsessive and worrying over things. Because the truth is, it's obvious when I'm in that state, even if I don't tell people. You can see it all over my face. And he notices. And so if I'm not that way, and if I'm confident and mature.
THERAPIST: And is that the way you want to be? I mean that is wrong to even worry about what he is going to perceive of it.
CLIENT: No. Exactly. No. It is.
THERAPIST: Is that the way you want to live?
CLIENT: Yeah, of course.
THERAPIST: Not? Is that the way you want to live, in anxiety?
CLIENT: No. Not like that.
THERAPIST: So what can you do in these situations? You can tell yourself, 'This is not helpful. It is not functional to do this. It is not going to help.' And then you need, maybe for ruminative behaviors, the coping statements can work. Would relaxation tapes work for you? Have you ever tried something like that before?
CLIENT: I haven't.
THERAPIST: They sell some downstairs. And sometimes that can help decrease the physiological – because once you get your heart going… You can say those statements before, but once you're in that state sometimes it is helpful to have some relaxation techniques. Use the tapes the first time and then you can kind of use them on your own.
CLIENT: Are they breathing things?
THERAPIST: They are breathing… some of them – I think the one they have downstairs is called Progressive Muscle Relaxation, where it'll start like… I'm not very well trained in doing it myself. I should practice it more. But it will be like… want to try?
CLIENT: Oh yeah.
THERAPIST: Close your eyes. This is going to be a short version of it. You won't be very relaxed. (chuckling) This is where I'm not very good at my therapy skills.
Okay. So imagine all of the tension in your body right now. Put your hands on there.
CLIENT: Here? [0:25:04]
THERAPIST: Yeah. Relax. Imagine all the tension that you have is in the left hand and your fingertips.
CLIENT: I've done this before.
THERAPIST: And you hold it very tight. And then the tension moves, and then your whole arm feels warm, and …
CLIENT: Yeah I've done this before, for sure.
THERAPIST: Did it work?
CLIENT: I don't remember why it didn't. I don't think it was in therapy actually. I think it was something. But yeah it works. It is just training yourself to do these things when you're in that… Training yourself to do anything when you're so used to getting into this frenzied state of anxiety is very difficult.
THERAPIST: That is right. But you're already starting. You're already doing a good job.
CLIENT: Yes. And I did try to – well first of all I did the worksheet because I was like, 'Let me fill out something.'
THERAPIST: And you can always do this wherever you are. You won't need this eventually.
CLIENT: Right. And then also I tried to read. And I did get into the book, which I was really surprised because at first I was reading it I was like, 'I'm still worrying, I'm still crazy, I'm (overlapping at 0:25:59)
THERAPIST: So you're reading it as a coping device. That is funny. I like that. [0:26:02]
CLIENT: And I was looking at the phone. But then, I got really into it that I didn't even notice when someone came into the store. So I feel like I can train myself.
THERAPIST: Do you allow yourself to get, when you're in that state, do you think, 'I have to be in this worried state or nothing is going to change'?
CLIENT: Yes.
THERAPIST: So you don't really allow yourself to do something else.
CLIENT: Yes. But that night, or I think it was yesterday, I did for five minutes find myself out of it. Which was good. I think. A good sign that it is possible to get out of it.
THERAPIST: Can you try to do something else, like call a friend and maybe not talk about that? Or would you feel like you had to…
CLIENT: I don't know.
THERAPIST: Or if you turned on the TV would you not be paying attention to the TV.
CLIENT: Yeah it is difficult. It is difficult to focus on something else for sure.
THERAPIST: Or something like, I guess reading is something that you kind of like, if you're not focused then you're on five pages and like, 'I don't even know what I'm reading.' So that can be a good thing. You could use these books, which obviously will reinforce that you're doing something good. You could read for pleasure. You could read something stupid, People magazine. I mean, I think these are just good coping behaviors to get. [0:27:04]
Some people who have more OCD-type issues, they wear rubber bands, and if they find themselves they 'snap' and it doesn't hurt very much because it is the protective kind. But if you get a real one. I mean you don't want to injure yourself. But to snap yourself out of it, say 'Okay I'm going to do something else now.' But to get yourself engaged in another activity. And you can always tell yourself, 'How is this helping me? Not even just our relationship. But how is this helping my – I need to function with or without Ferñao (ph) in my life.'
CLIENT: Yeah. It sucks.
THERAPIST: Right now he's not in it physically. And I can't control when he's going to call. Same as worrying about it is not going to make him call faster. And there is nothing I can do at this point, except make myself miserable.
Is your goal of life to make yourself miserable?
CLIENT: No.
THERAPIST: So you're actually working against your goals. [0:28:00]
CLIENT: I know. And I think also the same thing about control, I do with a lot of other things. Even with Ferñao's situations. It is not even my situation, like his visa situation. Or his getting an apartment. It is for sure not as intense as the way I feel when it is a personal relationship, but it is still a little bit of anxiety. Like this isn't going to work out. What are we going to do? Then our relationship is not going to work out because he's not going to come here. And it is too much…
THERAPIST: If you can't control something, what does that say?
CLIENT: I don't know. I think it is like…
THERAPIST: Is it awful to not be able to control…
CLIENT: Yeah. It is also…
THERAPIST: And if you couldn't control, is it catastrophic. Like if you couldn't control it was else can't you control in your life? And then if you can't even control these little things, then what is going to happen to the big things?
CLIENT: Yeah that. And I think it is also, if I can't control this then he's not … Well it is only in this situation with him because it is relevant right now. If I can't control this, him getting the visa, or him getting this apartment, then he's not going to come here because I – you know – because I didn't do… I guess in the end it is that I didn't do a good enough job. [0:29:14]
THERAPIST: So you have to do a perfect job every time. And you can't make a mistake.
CLIENT: It would be illogical. It is so irrational that I have trouble believing that I think this, this way. But it is clear that I do.
THERAPIST: So you want to make the right choice every time.
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: What about – when you go to a restaurant, are you a person who likes to eat?
CLIENT: Yes.
THERAPIST: Do you order the same thing every time?
CLIENT: No.
THERAPIST: Because some people are worried, some people have the thing where, 'I'm worried to order something new because I feel like I'll make the wrong choice.'
CLIENT: No. My problem is I cannot make decisions.
THERAPIST: Because you're worried you're going to make the wrong choice.
CLIENT: Yeah. That is the problem.
THERAPIST: But you do like, generally, a lot of different types of food?
CLIENT: Yeah everything.
THERAPIST: What would happen if you imagine having to go to a restaurant and throwing a dart and seeing what it was, and then saying, 'I have to order this.'
CLIENT: I wouldn't like that. [0:30:06]
THERAPIST: Because you couldn't control the choice, and it could be a bad choice, and you didn't have time to think about it and think it through.
CLIENT: Mm hmm. For example, my dad, he has a fish business. So he sells fish to a lot of restaurants in Chicago. And so we've always gone to a lot of restaurants growing up. And sometimes because he knows the chef, they'll give us some things. Or they'll say, 'Oh we'll order for you.' And I hate it. I can't stand it. Really.
It is not by far the worst thing that has ever happened, but I can't – I feel like I enjoy the food less because I wasn't able to choose it.
THERAPIST: But isn't that sad?
CLIENT: Yeah it is sick. (chuckling)
THERAPIST: Because it probably is delicious food.
CLIENT: It is scary too.
THERAPIST: It is probably delicious food, but because you…
CLIENT: And could very well have been the food I would have chosen.
THERAPIST: So are there other examples you can think of something like this? Or was the food one… because I think about that too. Sometimes I am very controlling. Sometimes I will order the same thing, because well I know this one is good. And I don't know about that one. So I'm going to stick with what I know is good.
CLIENT: I think it is a lot of not making decisions in life because I'm afraid it will be the wrong decision. Like …[0:31:08]
THERAPIST: And what if it was the wrong decision?
CLIENT: Well for example, I'm apply now – because I was in a major teaching English and I realize that I liked it. I am now applying to ESL teaching programs. I'm only applying to Finn because I can't get it together to do anything else. And it is like, if that doesn't work out this was the wrong decision. I was thinking it when I took the train to Finn, the Finn stop I was thinking it even more. Well what if this isn't what I like, and I just spent two or three years in this program doing something I don't like. And then I'm going to have this debt which I have to give back, which to be realistic is not that bad because Finn is not as expensive as other school, but it is money. It is money and wasted money. And what am I going to do after that if I decide I don't like it and don't want to teach anymore. Just like… [0:32:00]
And then thinking like that makes me not do it in the end.
THERAPIST: Makes you not make choices.
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: But lots of people change careers, right?
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: How do they get through it?
CLIENT: I don't know.
THERAPIST: How do they make a choice that could be wrong?
CLIENT: Thing is I'm not saying this is reason, because it is not. But I don't know a lot of people who have changed careers. At least not people my age.
THERAPIST: But you've changed careers already.
CLIENT: I've changed a million times.
THERAPIST: So you've made a lot of choices.
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: And they've all been… Have they all been mistakes?
CLIENT: The thing is I'm really good at when they are actually mistakes, or they just didn't work out as planned. Seeing it in a positive way. I don't get very negative, like, 'Why did I do this. That was stupid.' I can see the good, the positive parts of everything. But it doesn't make me stop worrying about it, which is unfortunate because …
THERAPIST: Because you're probably telling yourself that, 'Even thought it was okay the last time, this time it is going to blow in my face.'
CLIENT: That is true.
THERAPIST: But against all evidence.
CLIENT: Exactly.
THERAPIST: So what is the worst that could happen? You spend a lot of money on something. [0:33:14]
CLIENT: Yeah. Or more than that, it is like I failed at something. I didn't do…
THERAPIST: You failed because you changed your mind?
CLIENT: Yeah. Because maybe it didn't work. I made this decision. I've sat out on it. And now I've changed my mind again.
THERAPIST: What is more upsetting? That you can't seem to stick with something, or that you would make the wrong choice again?
CLIENT: Well I think it is not that I can't stick with something, it is more that I don't know what I … I'm not 100 percent sure of what I want to do. I'm not like, 'I want to be a doctor.' And that is it and let's go. I don't know.
THERAPIST: Do you think it is possible to – what to you is achieved life? Is it about family and finding love and having children? Have a good career that is functional, or is it, 'I must have a really fulfilling job'. Family is after I've got that together. [0:34:14]
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: So the fulfilling job is the most…
CLIENT: Yeah. And it's like, it is not – I don't have… Like I said, I didn't graduate college with a set idea like lawyer, doctor. My sister she has done events, because she went to hotel school and so she stayed with that. And I'm not necessarily saying that any of those people are happier because of this, but I don't know. I don't know what I'm saying, whatever.
THERAPIST: I know. I'm confused too. But if you – suppose you did make the wrong choice. And… well not the wrong choice, you made a choice to be an ESL teacher. And then seven years later you're like, 'I'm not really sure that this is my fulfilled job.' If you were happy at it, is that good enough? [0:35:12]
CLIENT: Yeah it is. But my fear is…
THERAPIST: So why would that be so awful?
CLIENT: It is not. But okay there are a lot of fears that go along with this, I don't think we have enough time. But, especially this career thing. But the thing is like I always had an idea that I would like teaching, but I never wanted to pursue it because in the social circle that I grew up with it is not a very…
THERAPIST: Prestigious.
CLIENT: Yeah. And teaching for many reasons is looked down upon. It is for certain … in certain ways it is also like you don't have to be a genius to become a teacher, and I feel like I'm a really smart person and I could probably get a degree that is a lot more prestigious than teaching. And then I get down on myself because of that. It's like well I'm not – I can't think of the word. Like focused. Not focused, but …
THERAPIST: Driven?
CLIENT: Ambitious enough. Or yeah, driven enough. Whatever. [0:36:10]
I don't know. I know all these other teachers and I like… I don't know… it's not like I feel like I'm better than them but in some ways I do.
THERAPIST: If the job wasn't called a teacher, and it was like something more impressive. Like you were the head of that department.
CLIENT: Yeah I would like that more. I know it really sound really shitty, and I don't like that I feel that way.
THERAPIST: It is what you are thinking. And you can help, if that is something you have a problem with how you're thinking, or you want to be more accepting of 'That is just how I think.' That is okay.
CLIENT: I don't like that I feel that way. And I feel like I shouldn't care.
THERAPIST: If teaching is really what you want to do, but it is the judgment of others that maybe prevents you from thinking that it could be the career for you? Is that kind of…
CLIENT: Yeah. [0:37:01]
THERAPIST: But at this point you feel that teaching would be fulfilling for you.
CLIENT: At this point I know that I at least like it and I've tried things in corporate America and not liked it. So I'm willing to give it a shot.
THERAPIST: Why do you feel like your choice is always your last choice? Suppose teaching isn't bringing you the full, there are other things that you can do from there.
CLIENT: Right. No it's true.
THERAPIST: Doesn't mean it's a waste. And even if you enjoy it, if you're like – I'd rather be the head of a department, or move on to working with special ed. populations. Or working with something more specific, something more challenging.' And there is always more training to take. These are practical problem solving. How can we help you. What would help you?
CLIENT: I don't know.
THERAPIST: Would it be that it doesn't, other people's judgment, I would prefer if other people could view me as, could view my job as successful? But if they can't I can get along on my own. [0:38:03]
CLIENT: Yeah I think it is mainly that other, the way other people view me, look at me. It is mainly that in that situation, with teaching.
THERAPIST: What would you tell a friend – what would you tell me; I want to be a teacher but I'm worried. All my friends, my parents, think it's a shitty job but I think right now it is the choice for me but I'm afraid to make the wrong choice. And I'm afraid of having my friends look down on me.
CLIENT: I would say you were being stupid.
THERAPIST: Why?
CLIENT: Because if you feel like you'd be happy doing it, and it is something you want to try you should try it. If it doesn't work, ultimately if it doesn't work out you can do exactly what you just told me. There is other training. There is other things you can do.
THERAPIST: So it would be nice if my friends didn't look down on me, and it would be nice if it was the right choice, but you never know 'til you try it?
CLIENT: It's true.
THERAPIST: I mean, if you didn't go try teaching you never would have met Ferñao. You never would have gone, lived in Portugal.
CLIENT: I know. If I look back on all the decisions I have made in my life they are all like that. If I didn't try this, I would never have gotten here. And I'm very good at seeing those things.
THERAPIST: So it is just the future. [0:39:05]
CLIENT: Mm hmm.
THERAPIST: So can you tell yourself, 'This choice is not the last choice I make in my life? This is just one choice. This is just one choice I'm making. This isn't the last choice I'll ever make.'
CLIENT: Yeah I think that is probably the best way to look at it. Just to add to the choice thing is though when also another thing I have trouble with when making decisions like this is; what if it doesn't work out. And fine I can accept that, and I can whatever. But then what? What the hell am I going to do. You know what I mean? It is a lot of that too.
THERAPIST: But you always have options, right? And having more education is never going to hold you back.
CLIENT: That is true.
THERAPIST: No one is like, 'Oh she's way too educated. She wants to be a waitress.' And the I think still people will probably hire you.
CLIENT: Yeah totally.
THERAPIST: So I think we're out of time so I think we're fine. [0:40:02]
So we talked about two things today. I think you're doing well with the work on the anxiety about the idea that; worrying about it is not going to help me, it is not going to help my relationship. And then I think to file that, to take a walk. Clear your head. Do you have a pet? You have pets right?
CLIENT: Cats.
THERAPIST: You're like my son. Can you play with them? Is that something that would take your mind off of it.
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: They are entertaining. Go talk to somebody else. Go read a gossip column.
CLIENT: But you don't always have the ability to just shut everything else down.
THERAPIST: You mean like, where you're to be where you can…
CLIENT: Well I mean, if I was working…
THERAPIST: Well can you immerse yourself in the job? Aren't you doing a bad job at work if you're really thinking about…
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: So can't you say, 'Okay I'll think about this later.' People who have a lot of issues worrying, I don't know if this will be helpful for you, allot themselves what I call 'worry time'. We're never sure about how effective it is, but a lot of people like it. [0:41:03]
CLIENT: How do you stop it…
THERAPIST: Oh no. But a lot of people say, 'I'm not worrying about it because I know I'll have time to worry about it later.' It is like knowing that you need time to worry about something, right? So you say, 'My worry time is 9 o'clock to 9:30 tonight.' And then my alarm will go off, and then I have to stop and then move on, and do the rest of my day. When you're at work – it is hard because this is related to contacts. But at work you say, 'Worrying about it now, or worrying about it three hours from now is not going to make a difference. So let me just get my job done, and then I can worry about it for half an hour, 15 minutes.' Is that something that would help you? Or do you feel like it is not that bad?
CLIENT: Maybe I could try it.
THERAPIST: I don't know if you're that bad yet. I think that you could be distracted.
CLIENT: I think I probably… If I can …
THERAPIST: Keep reading the book.
CLIENT: I'm confident that if this book could have distracted me for a few minutes, that there is hope for me.
THERAPIST: And I think you don't allow yourself to be distracted. You feel like you deserve to keep worrying and the worrying is going to make the situation better.
CLIENT: Yeah I think I have to get that out. [0:42:02]
THERAPIST: So even if you… I think the thing with behavior, behavioral exercises, is that truth be told you don't always believe that they are going to work. But that is the whole thing. That is why we use them. Because the thoughts alone aren't always enough. You need the behavior to prove, 'Oh yeah. I did get out it for a few minutes.' And you did that on your own.
So now when you're worrying, even though you're saying, 'Oh that is not going to work.' It doesn't matter. 'This is what I'm going to go do. I'm worrying, now this is what I have to do. I need to find something else to do.'
You say irrational thoughts. It will calm you down enough to probably get out of the state, and then go find something else to do. You can use them together.
CLIENT: Yeah I think I can do it.
THERAPIST: Now one on its own is not going to work.
CLIENT: I can do it. Maybe this week was just like a fluke, but there are two other examples I didn't have time to tell you, that maybe I can tell you tomorrow, that I saw an improvement. A little, at least a slight improvement. So I think… [0:43:00]
THERAPIST: Good. I think you need to work on the positives. You're working on all these things. So tomorrow would you like to continue to work on the need for control, or do you want to work on more 'self-worth' issues. What would be most helpful?
CLIENT: Oh boy, I don't know. Maybe…
THERAPIST: Do you have another… you had two problems you wanted to talk about. What was the other one you wanted to talk about? One was the phone call issue and there was another fight that you had with Ferñao.
CLIENT: Yeah there was a fight.
THERAPIST: Were they related to the same thing, you think?
CLIENT: No.
THERAPIST: Okay. Would you like to talk about the fight tomorrow?
CLIENT: We'll talk about the fight and see where that leads us maybe.
THERAPIST: Okay.
CLIENT: Yeah. Because it is very different from the not-calling issue.
THERAPIST: Okay so we'll talk about that. I think we covered a lot of ground, you're doing really good work.
CLIENT: Thank you. I'm doing homework I think it is good.
THERAPIST: Actually here is another homework assignment.
CLIENT: Oh really?
THERAPIST: Do you have time to do this? You actually filled out just the front page. And then I don't know if you ran out of time. Oh shoot, I'm not allowed to give this to you. Is there any way that you can come in an hour early tomorrow, is that possible?
[0:44:10]
CLIENT: Yeah. What time are we supposed to meet? 4? I think you said 4.
THERAPIST: I've recently lost my calendar. Tomorrow I have an appointment at 3, 4.
CLIENT: So I can come at 3.
THERAPIST: And I'll call downstairs. I have a patient at 3 so I'll come down and bring it to you. Okay?
CLIENT: Fine. Perfect.
THERAPIST: So I will see you tomorrow.
CLIENT: Alright. Thank you.
THERAPIST: Bye Laura. Get home safe.
(unrelated material from 0:44:38)
END TRANSCRIPT
