Transcript of Audio File:
______________________________________________________________________________
BEGIN TRANSCRIPT:
THERAPIST: Welcome back.
CLIENT: Thanks.
THERAPIST: How are you doing? You look sad.
CLIENT: I'm doing okay. Just a little bit – I don't know 'cause it's like – I had some friends (inaudible at 00:00:13) it wasn't that brainwashy. Though there were some – definitely times that like – 'cause let's go by [inaudible] since we're nice. There were some people on the trip – I mean no one was mean, but there are some points where some people said some things that like made me feel really uncomfortable. Just like talking about how clearly everyone believes that Obama is a putz, or stuff like that, or someone who had then actually said back because the one person was actually like "No, I actually like Obama," and having one (inaudible at 00:00:46), and blah, blah, blah. And he stands up for the whatever, and then she like – the other woman was like oh, well. She went – I guess she was like – 'cause she – I guess – and she was talking about Sandra Fluke, but was like oh, yeah, there's no – she's all worried about her contraceptions, but no one is going to touch her precious uterus, blah, blah, blah, blah. Just like (inaudible at [00:01:09). Not everyone's a Republican. Not everyone's a Republican. You're wrong. They didn't speak up or anything. They were just like – stop assuming that everyone's a Republican.
THERAPIST: Yeah, it's uncomfortable to be with people who are – regardless of their beliefs, but not allowing for the possibility that people might have a different perspective.
CLIENT: Yeah. Well, just why wouldn't I try to like – if I'm complaining about Republicans, I try to do it in a context so that other people who'd agree with me and not like around people who are Republicans. Granted I don't know that. No, but I do. I guess – I mean more of an (inaudible at 00:01:45), but I wasn't like.
THERAPIST: When you're in a group and you don't know, then I think that's true. Right.
CLIENT: Then I just try to shy away from it. Yeah.
THERAPIST: Clearly, these are people that you don't know very well. They don't know you very well. So I'd say the same thing if – you don't know them very well, and they don't know you very well. So it's uncomfortable to have people making assumptions that you're thinking exactly like they are. In the – in the comfort of friends, you can maybe make some pretty good guesses, or you know because you've talked about these things before. [00:02:14]
CLIENT: Yeah. And it's just – they're sad. Also, like I was getting my family – I don't know that I can do another family vacation without outside support. It was – having my own room definitely helped because then I had privacy I could go back to but... the problem with grandma and her declining is it's just that I have no patience for her. And I feel bad that I have no patience for her, but she is losing her memory and she'll – for example, she was going to – she went up to the bathroom, and she had left her purse with dad, and then she sort of started freaking out. Actually, I think even then, one time mom asked dad, "Oh, is she going to remember that you have her purse?" And dad's like, "Yeah." Except that then grandma didn't remember that dad had her purse and was freaking out where's her purse – "Where's my purse?" and we have to be like, "Grandma, dad – you gave it to dad to take it. He has it. It's right here," or – which why in the future, I was like, "Don't offer to take her purse. It's just going to make things worse because she's going to forget where it is." Or like asking the same questions over and over again and stuff. And I just – I don't know. [00:03:26]
THERAPIST: Do you find that you have no patience for her? Or do you have no patience for – in general?
CLIENT: In general? Well, I guess I wouldn't have patience for anyone asking the same question over and over again. The problem is I feel like I should have patience for her because she at least has an excuse that she's lost her short-term memory. Whereas, with my dad, well, he'll ask a question and then he'll ask it again. He hasn't lost his short-term memory. He just doesn't listen to the answer. I'm like why should I even answer your question if you're not going to listen to it anyways? What's the point? Which is why I stopped – after a point, I stopped answering my dad's questions 'cause I'm just like no. You're going to ask it again. Whereas, normal people asking me a question – I guess 'cause sometimes someone – I ask a question and I do forget the answer, I will preface it like that, "I'm not sure whether or not I've asked this already, and if I did, I apologize." [00:04:20]
THERAPIST: Show some awareness that you're aware that you may have forgotten.
CLIENT: Yeah. And I usually try to listen when people give me answers. And usually I don't forget. Not much but... Yeah, it was just like I don't know, being around, and then there's a certain point... But I actually did then talk to my mom about it because there were two things. One was she – there was this woman on the trip who was a doctor, and I guess she and my mom had sat with each other at the same table for a few meals and whatever. And then, she asked me about my hands and stuff. And then my mom started explaining and being like oh, you know, surgery, blah, blah, blah, etc., and she can knit and play a guitar and stuff like that, and I was feeling oh God, like I'm the disabled kid who can knit. Isn't that so amazing? But the way my mom meant it was more like isn't the surgery amazing, but it just came out wrong. And I was just like... [00:05:23]
THERAPIST: And you were – they were having this conversation in front of you without you participating?
CLIENT: Well, I was participating a little, but I was there, she asked me, and then my mom started talking. She asked me. Granted like – okay, fine, I didn't know that it was considered – the term for it is a club hand. Considering that it's not like I was ever – it was never referred to like that then. And people are talking about my hands so there's a reason I didn't know the term. But – and okay – also, I was like below the age of four when these surgeries happened. But then again – I know what they did to my hands. I just wasn't aware of what age I was or what order these surgeries were in. But... yeah, I was there.
THERAPIST: What were you feeling?
CLIENT: Uncomfortable and sort of dehumanized.
THERAPIST: That's a strong word. [00:06:19]
CLIENT: I don't know 'cause I don't like being thought of as disabled and it just was like wow.
THERAPIST: I'm not saying it's an inappropriate word. I'm just noticing how strong... what a strong feeling that must be to sit with.
CLIENT: Yeah. So I did confront my mom about it like afterwards. But – which is when she explained (inaudible at 00:06:36) was the surgeries. I was like yeah, you put it the wrong way. And she said that she's never thought of me as disabled. And I'm like okay. Do I believe that? I don't know. And she said she's never stopped me from doing anything. Like just because you've never stopped me from doing anything isn't necessarily you being able to think of me as disabled. Like the two – like it could be that's the case, but that's not a proof. You know?
THERAPIST: Do you feel like she thinks of you that way?
CLIENT: I didn't up until that moment. And then I did after that. [00:07:14]
(Pause)
CLIENT: I mean she probably doesn't – and I guess then she was telling me that there is I guess some odd woman who had – what did she mean – that had a son that had something. It's not similar to mine, but some sort of physical disability that – they put him in a special school or something like that, and my mom never did that for me 'cause she was like against that 'cause that has to – yeah, and like this kid had no mental disabilities. And it was just like yeah.
(Pause)
CLIENT: But – I just want to be thought of as a person and it just sometimes sucks then. It's like oh, this medical anomaly, it's so upsetting. My grandmother who is all like "Oh, you've overcome so much with your hands." I'm just like (inaudible at 00:08:18).
THERAPIST: Is that what she said on this trip?
CLIENT: Not this trip. She said that on New Zealand. That was in fall 2008.
THERAPIST: It's a comment that's really stuck with you.
CLIENT: Yeah (whisper). And I couldn't tell grandma off because she was grandma. Even then, before she was losing her memory, I couldn't tell her off. And I was just like kind of pissed off at that though.
THERAPIST: Well, it sounds like neither your mom in this instance or your grandmother in that instance cert – they didn't intend to be hurtful. But that they – and they weren't – and I think it's probably really useful that you were able to talk with your mom later about what it felt like for you to overhear or to be sitting in that conversation. Because I was – I'm sure. You know, as she said, she didn't mean you, she meant the surgery, and certainly, her intent wasn't to hurt your feelings in any way. [00:09:12]
CLIENT: But with my grandmother, I mean her intent wasn't to hurt my feelings either, but it's more – it hurts that she thinks of me like that. You know? It's not like she said anything insulting, 'cause you could think of someone who had like lost an arm or whatever, and if you say to them wow, you must've overcome so much, you're not saying that as an insult to them either, but they might not want to be thought of that way either. But like – I couldn't – how is it overcoming something if I've never known anything different. That's just the way I am, and it just – I don't have any...
THERAPIST: This is normal.
CLIENT: ... problems. Like most of my things that I can't do are because I'm too short, not because of my hands. Really, there's – the only things that I can't do are cartwheels and flex arm hang, and at this point in my life, I don't need to do either of those things so. [00:10:07]
THERAPIST: You have very few instances in life where you actually need to do a cartwheel.
CLIENT: Okay, maybe like...
(Laughter)
CLIENT: Like you know, when everyone else is doing cartwheels and I wasn't and...
THERAPIST: Actually, I take that back because it's probably – yes, it's probably no like physical need to do a cartwheel. But, you know, there probably is a phase of life in elementary school where the need to fit in is very strong. And if that's what your classmates and peers are doing, then you want to be able to do that. It doesn't matter what the thing is. Right? And so there probably is a time in your life when not being able to turn cartwheels with the others girls in your class was a disadvantage.
CLIENT: Yeah. And I guess I wasn't the only person, but it definitely looked – I'm definitely not the only person in the world who's never been able to do a cartwheel, but definitely some – it felt like everyone else in my class.
THERAPIST: Feels like everyone else can.
CLIENT: And I think maybe everyone else in my immediate class could and it wasn't like I noticed someone else. Someone else being like, "Oh, I can't do cartwheels either. Let's like chill out on the side and not do cartwheels."
THERAPIST: And it didn't feel like you had a choice?
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: Something that you physically couldn't do.
CLIENT: No.
THERAPIST: Not something you chose not to learn or... [00:11:24]
CLIENT: Yeah. I mean I guess there's some people who don't have a physical – any difference, but they just can't do it and haven't tried doing it. Those people do exist. It just – yeah, it felt like everyone else in the world could do cartwheels but me. And flex arm hanging, it was just – I always like – I mean why would I even bother with the stupid presidential physical fitness test? And you get up there and like drop down right away. I don't have the upper body strength for that and – at this point in my life, like most people my age probably don't have the upper body strength for that anymore, but... So yeah, these things are no longer necessary, but...
THERAPIST: But they are experiences you remember, so they shape you.
CLIENT: Yeah, but... [00:12:12]
(Pause.)
CLIENT: I don't know. The other thing was like – another day, my mom had mentioned – as we were talking, and she asked if it would help – she thought – noticed that I'd gained weight and was not happy about that and offered me like, would it help if I gave you an incentive if you lost weight, you could have $1,500.00 for a new wardrobe? And I'm just like well, that's way more money than I'd ever spend on clothing. It seems kind of frivolous enough. B, if I need new clothing for work, that will be because I'd have a job and then I wouldn't feel guilty about spending money on it. And C, no. Like the only reason I want – if I want to be losing weight is because I want to lose weight. I don't want it to be for any other – outside incentives if anything make things worse, but then that set me off because I'm like oh, that means like my mom just said I was fat. And I'd much rather have a good body image and be okay with my weight the way it is than to lose weight. And because of my mom is like "Oh, well. I've always had a weight problem," like, "I don't want you to go through this same thing," and I'm just like well, it's more of a problem if I'm not happy with my weight than it is to be overweight is, but she – 'cause like okay, so I haven't been walking as much as I should. And I need to get back into walking, but that's not me needing to lose weight. That's me needing to get exercise and the two aren't the same thing. And I really don't want to be dieting 'cause I'm afraid to, it doesn't work, and so like... And I even said to my mom I'm like actually, yeah, there was a point where I did lose 10 pounds, and that was when Jonas broke up with me and I stopped eating. That wasn't good either. [00:14:01]
THERAPIST: That's not a healthy way. Not a healthy way.
CLIENT: Yeah. So I think it's more healthy to exercise more and...
THERAPIST: Well, exercise is very healthy for you regardless of your weight.
CLIENT: Yeah, and it's not like I'm going out and eating like crazy things all the time and stuff like that or overeating tons.
THERAPIST: You did mention you were eating out a lot more.
CLIENT: I was eating out a lot more.
THERAPIST: Which gives you a lot less control...
CLIENT: True.
THERAPIST: ...than when you're home cooking.
CLIENT: True. I thought portion size is the...
THERAPIST: Portion size is how they prepare it. You just, you know.
CLIENT: So now Sydney wants to lose weight, so he thinks that then we should go out to eat less, which would solve that.
THERAPIST: Lots of problems.
(Laughter)
(Crosstalk)
CLIENT: I did talk to my parents about a budget, and my mom said that – asked me how much I'd need, and I asked if like $200 a month spending money. Like that isn't – rent or something would be reasonable, and she said definitely, so...
THERAPIST: Oh.
CLIENT: Which is more than I – which – would ever be spending to go to restaurants if I wanted like at the highest number rather than the low number. So now, I don't have to feel guilty about paying for going out to eat.
THERAPIST: And give you a little bit more flexibility because you know that was something that was really concerning to you.
CLIENT: Yeah. [00:15:12]
(Pause)
CLIENT: But I don't know. And I'm still like worried about the whole trial (ph) thing and stuff. And I actually today turned down a position, despite being worried about the job thing 'cause it was this thing I applied for way back, a document conservator contractor position. And it didn't say – I was like okay, contractor. It might be temporary, but like the ad number said that this is a temporary position lasting x many months and it also didn't mention a salary. And so then what I found out about the position: (a) all you're doing is scanning documents, (b) it's all up in Westford through repositories there and they're trying to get a specific collection, so that would be an hour drive each way, and then also – and it's a production-based thing, like getting x many scans, which it just seems like arbitrary for archives to like... it's an arbitrary deadline. It's not like they need that many for the specific goal other than they want to make things bigger. So it's just like – but it's a approximately six-month position that if you get the work done sooner, then it's less than a six-month position. So it would actually give people – the – the – the documenting – like I think that would give people motivation to like just scan bare minimum with maybe a little bit more to look better than doing bare minimum. It would just stretch it out longer. But I realize – and it was also $13.50 an hour, which wasn't going to be enough to support having a car and drive an hour each way five days a week. So I decided – and it was just going to be like scanning things and that's it. So grunt work, so I mean I guess maybe the pay is fair for what you'd be doing, but like... [00:16:58]
THERAPIST: But you don't need your degree to do that.
CLIENT: I don't need my degree to do that, and it seems kind of mind numbing and stuff. Like I'm okay with scanning things if it's like part of my job.
THERAPIST: Not spending eight hours a day scanning.
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: I can understand that.
CLIENT: And I'd rather be like going through and finding things in collections and then scanning them or whatever... or I thought that it was like you could go to different repositories or something like that, and then I could like find ones that were closer. But it just – whatever, this specific collection – yeah, and the six months. So the combination of these things, though I would have been getting healthcare, but...
THERAPIST: But you have that right now anyway.
CLIENT: Which I have that right now until August anyways. But yeah, so I decided that like – and with Passover coming up too. But now I have to – I'm like oh, no. Now I have to go back and start applying for real things. Why does it sound like all the things that are listed are temporary positions? Yeah. So yeah, it just seemed kind of ridiculous. Like I think I made the right decision, especially if I've turned down other job that paid more and was less monotonous than this and had slightly less of a communal death.
THERAPIST: Well, it certainly sounds like it's not something that was at all interesting to you. So if you're using that as your basis of whether it's the right decision for you. I mean you clearly weren't interested, and it wasn't very high paying to accommodate for the commute.
CLIENT: Yeah, if it were like less of a commute and better paying and not interesting, I could do it. But like I can't have all these – like the combination makes it too much. If it were like – I don't know, even if it was closer. If it were closer and more interesting, I could do something for lower pay... or closer. [00:18:42]
THERAPIST: But you want to have one of the variables be positive. Right? Whether it's a lot of money or very interesting or very convenient, you want something good.
CLIENT: I think I need actually two of those three variables. But yeah, like especially then because it is specifically 40 hours a week. And that would make things a little bit difficult with getting back in time for Shabbat. And...
(Pause)
CLIENT: Yeah, that – it just. Forty hour – what's something that's that fast paced and like get – must get this stuff done, so it's not like 40 hours a week and something laid back? Whereas, like normal archive will work working in an archive. Like it isn't production based and stuff, so you can – yes, you want to get through the backlog and process the collections, but it isn't like a super rush to process all the collections, so it's not the same thing and it's more interesting.
THERAPIST: So your focus now needs to return on... return to looking for what's out there? [00:19:46]
CLIENT: Yeah, I just haven't had any motivation. I've been—I – looked through the job log like week of postings and didn't really see anything on my first pass, but I could go back to looking. And also, I need to check like the other sites and stuff. But it didn't see – like I guess I should like also find the ones that are more a little bit more out. Like in the library and not our Catskills (ph) because at least there, something I'm also qualified to do, but... yeah, it's – so I haven't been doing that much, and I didn't really do anything while I was in Israel.
THERAPIST: I think – and that makes sense. I think we talked about kind of taking a break while you were away. But it sounds like it's time to return that focus. You know, you're not sick anymore 'cause you had been sick for a while. You're back in the states. [00:20:47]
CLIENT: Well, I do also have to move all my stuff from one room to the other, and I kind of want to do that before I apply to jobs. I mean not that I can't do both, and it shouldn't take more than a day, but it just seems like this big ominous thing hanging over me, and I need to get that done first before applying to jobs, and it's – but hey, like yesterday, I did neither of these things.
THERAPIST: So what stopped you from making progress on either of them?
CLIENT: Well, in the morning, I was volunteering. And then I was waiting around for that phone call where I learned about the position and that it wasn't what I was looking for... But then the rest of the time – I was like – was hanging out with Sydney, and we were watching these (inaudible at 00:21:34) and going out for dinner and stuff like that, 'cause he wasn't – 'cause he wanted to hang out and I wanted to hang out, so... I don't know why I couldn't. [00:21:45]
THERAPIST: Well, you could hang out and move stuff together.
CLIENT: Maybe. Though then we ended up going to his place, so – in the evening, so I couldn't move stuff while I was there.
THERAPIST: Right.
CLIENT: But we could. And then I guess yeah – like I'm planning – staying that Sunday is going to be the day that I move everything and... Saturday night, Sydney has a – his RPG, so he'll be over there. And in theory, I could go and like watch them and stuff, which might be interesting, or I could start moving all the non-furniture things, which might be a better idea. Then I'll feel better about it and then it will just be...
THERAPIST: I wonder if getting started on it would actually – 'cause it sounds like there's a little bit of a hesitation about starting this project.
CLIENT: And I can't real – well, I mean I did a little bit of starting in that I've moved my things from my closet to the other closet, but... not things from my room because my closet isn't in my room.
THERAPIST: Where?
CLIENT: My current room. My current closet. My new room has a closet inside it. But... [00:22:48]
THERAPIST: So you've started? But it sounds like yeah – I mean maybe thinking about it – instead of thinking about it as this huge task of like moving your whole room, let yourself break it down. You did some of the closet. You could do smaller items on Saturday night. I'm assuming you can't do this since Shabbat is...
CLIENT: Oh, technically. Well...
THERAPIST: It sounds like work to me and...
(Laughter)
CLIENT: Super technic – I mean I'm not creating anything, I am – the things I'm moving aren't yarn and not technically supposed to be like moved – played – like you touching or moving things like yarn that have no Shabbat use. However, I usually ignore that rule anyways.
THERAPIST: Okay. So you can't selectively obey that rule just to (crosstalk) get out of doing your room?
(Laughter)
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: So says me.
CLIENT: So I could...
THERAPIST: I'm the new authority.
CLIENT: And like the shelves, I – I sort of... Getting the shelves out will be annoying and stuff though. I guess I could start moving my random like things that I have around. Like I could do some of that on Shabbat and... [00:23:47]
THERAPIST: I mean I don't want you to do anything you're uncomfortable with with regard to your religion. But – you – from a – from a therapy standpoint, breaking it into smaller tasks and having your – challenging yourself to get started on the smaller tasks, because I think that's what's intimidating is when you think about it as moving a whole room. It sounds like a lot of work. And I can see why you wouldn't want to do that, but it's hold – you know, since that feels like you've got to get that thing finished before you move on to résumés, you've got to move that out of your way because it is important for you to get back into the flow of searching for stuff and thinking creatively about where to look for positions, and getting those résumés out because you've been off the – kind of off the grid on that for... [00:24:38]
CLIENT: For a while.
THERAPIST: Yeah. And you had some good reasons why, but it's time to return to it because it's not going to feel good to ignore it. It doesn't feel good not to have a job.
CLIENT: Yeah. And I can't really do anything about it this afternoon because after this, I'm going home and then I'm cooking Shabbat dinner.
THERAPIST: Yeah. And I know, you know, we're getting close to that time.
CLIENT: Yeah. Well, now Shabbat starts at like 6:30, or maybe even 6:40 this week, so it's starting later. It's just that...
THERAPIST: But you've got stuff to do and...
CLIENT: Yeah. And it's more important that there's Shabbat dinner because dad has a lot of people. And it's not just affecting me.
THERAPIST: And – and I think, you know, that saying thing is when you're thinking about stuff as like really big tasks. Submitting résumés and looking for a job doesn't have to be a 24-hours, you know, job every day. You can think about it as there's still room to put these other things in your life, like hanging out with your friends, spending time with your boyfriend, having a nice meal. There – there's room for all of that.
CLIENT: And I mean Sydney also has to write cover letters too. And he was like, "Yeah, now we can go out and help each other write cover letters." And I was like, "Yes, so we need to actually do that though." So...
THERAPIST: Yeah. So I mean I think it – it looks like there are some ways to break down the idea of moving your room. Some things that you can maybe do over Shabbat. Some things you can do Sunday night, and clearing that kind of out of the way. And then really starting Monday, maybe there will be new listings at the start of a new week. [00:26:08]
CLIENT: Yeah and... I guess – I don't know, like if there are a bunch of different things around, should I apply to the newest ones first or the older ones that are like going away or...
THERAPIST: Let's see how many there are.
CLIENT: Yeah. I don't know. And I guess it depends on how far – well, I guess if it's still posted then like it's presumably open whether or not it actually is open is?
THERAPIST: Yeah. I think you apply a best fit first. Things that you have better – the best chance of getting.
CLIENT: That would make sense.
THERAPIST: I think, you know, that would be I think my approach. And it – and it might – might also might be easier. Something you're really interested in, you're more motivated to apply for. And so thinking about what's going to make you most productive might be the best way to go.
CLIENT: Yeah. And I think if I stop having all these things hanging over my head, it will be easier.
THERAPIST: Yeah. I would imagine that feeling creates a bit of anxiety.
CLIENT: Yeah. That and Passover is coming up and now it's like oh, and I have all the Passover things to do as well. So Sydney is like excited about Passover and wants to help us with the process of koshering the kitchens and stuff since, you know, it's a learning experience for him. And he's not koshering his kitchen because even if he is like going to be keeping Passover, his housemates aren't, so he's keeping Passover in not eating things full of chametz, but he's not like using separate dishes or anything like that.
THERAPIST: Is that what he typically does or is he doing something different?
CLIENT: I mean this is the first year that he'd be observing it because he's converting so... This isn't a – what he typ – there is no what he typically does. This is like... [00:27:47]
THERAPIST: I did not know he was converting. I missed that tidbit.
CLIENT: Oh, okay.
THERAPIST: That seems important.
CLIENT: Yes, he is converting to Judaism, so he doesn't have a what – a regular what he's doing thing.
THERAPIST: Oh, okay. And he's converting because he's – of you?
CLIENT: No.
THERAPIST: Or this was something he was doing prior to you?
CLIENT: This was something that's prior. Yeah. I don't think I could date someone who's – 'cause I could never ask someone to convert for me, but like he found me on eHarmony. I didn't find him 'cause he wasn't in my search 'cause he listed himself as other and very serious about it, and then in his profile, he like mentions that he's converting to Judaism. And like in his message to me, he also mentioned that he was converting to Judaism. So it was something already in the making, but yeah. But because he didn't list himself as Jewish, I didn't see him.
THERAPIST: I see.
CLIENT: So yeah, he is converting. He is converting conservative.
(Pause)
CLIENT: But yeah, not because of me.
THERAPIST: Well, it sounds like it – it – I mean something that really is a really good learning experience to see, you know, how – how you – how you do things and be exposed to that. What a real life experience.
CLIENT: Yeah. And I get to use him as unpaid labor. [00:28:58]
(Laughter)
CLIENT: But... not that I'm getting paid either. And he'll be eating at our place a lot, so he will be also benefitting (crosstalk) from this process, but...
THERAPIST: Well, hopefully helping out.
CLIENT: Yeah. So... but still, it's like all these different things hanging over my head, and I can't really attack any of them right now because I have my – I have to make Shabbat dinner.
THERAPIST: Do you have them written down or are they just floating in your head?
CLIENT: The Passover things are written down, though Aaron hasn't added them to the calendar yet. I don't think. But we like had a house meeting and we set different tasks. I'm going to have to re-look at that list 'cause it looks like I might have signed up for a lot more than other people, in which case I might ask to lift some of them off. But... well, I guess some of them are easy, fun ones and that's why I didn't feel bad about them. Like the whole searching for a chametz thing counts as an easy, fun task 'cause you take ten pieces of chametz and you hide them around, and then the other person finds them. That counts as fun and not work, but it is one of the things on the list 'cause it needs to be done. And then also, burning it the next morning is on the list too 'cause it's something that needs to be done. But it is... [00:30:17]
THERAPIST: But it's kind of fun.
CLIENT: But it's kind of fun. So like those two, so I guess really it's – well, yes it is. So I guess my other tasks are cleaning both fridges or all three fridges for Passover.
THERAPIST: That's a good task.
CLIENT: Which Aimee I think is helping me with like the ones in the – the two that are in the dairy kitchen. And then, also – and me and her are on koshering the meat kitchen, but I think that's just really the stove and the stovetop because like the – doing the counters and stuff is a different task, so it's not that bad. It's just like using the... what's the name of that? The oven cleaner chemical thing in the bottle, whose name I cannot remember right now. But that and then like heating up the oven and heating up the burners. It's not like it's hard – the – the fridges are probably going to be the hardest, and I think the reason I picked them is well, for the dairy fridges, my task is fridge clean anyways, so it's just a more thorough one. But if it is going to be way more than other people, it might be worth my while to ask if I can get rid of one of those or have Sydney help me with them. But I can't really start on any of those yet anyways. [00:31:43]
THERAPIST: Yeah, it's a little bit early for Pass – I mean it's coming, but it's not here yet.
CLIENT: Yeah, so that's something over me, and I mean I don't have it written down. I need to move, but I need to move, but I don't have it written down. I need to write cover letters, but it – those are like – okay, so moving now I can break it down to different – different tasks, but as of now, it's one task, so it didn't break down because it's obvious and the same with the cover letters.
THERAPIST: But I've – so I would recommend that you – that you do kind of break it down and write down those steps for yourself. Not that you're going to forget it. You're not going to forget that you have to move into a new room, but when you don't write it down, it – it swirls around in your head. It's sort of like, "Oh, I've got to do that. When am I going to do that? How am I going to do that? This is the best time to do it." And you start to think through all the details. Once you write it down for yourself and put some of those details down on a piece of paper, it allows you to let go of it a little bit. And when it does come kind of racing back where you start going over and over in your head how you're going to manage the time and when you're going to do what, you can stop yourself by saying it's all written down. I know what my plan is. And then not having the anxiety about it. That sometimes comes up when we haven't made a plan and kind of written it out. Writing it out allows you to remind yourself that you can let it go. That you've – you've figured out when and how, so that you don't have to have it circle in your head. [00:33:10]
CLIENT: Yeah. And I mean the other thing is not knowing how long these tasks will take. And like last time, it didn't take that long to move me to my current room, but a lot of my things were still in boxes 'cause like I knew I wasn't staying in the other room at the beginning, and it was like I was there until the other side of the house opened up. And the other thing is also like I want to paint a mural on the new wall since I am leaving my room that currently has to be redone and painted. It would be a different mural. And – I mean at least it's not going to be full, all the walls mural like the other one is 'cause like the base color is pink and it's fine as opposed to like the ugly wood. Fake wood. Not wood. Fake wood paneling. If it were a real wood paneling, that would've been really awesome, but it was fake wood, and really, really ugly, needed to be painted over with something. And so I was like I might as well do a burnt mural. Also, there are more – there's much more wall space since it's a bigger room. But I'm just going to paint some things onto the wall, but it's like I can't actually – like I need to do that after I move and not before I move because I don't have the time to just do it before I move. And also, I don't have the paint for it right now. But I'm sort of afraid that if I do this, then I'll never actually do it... 'cause I'll just like oh, but I want my room to be unpacked and everything to be... so I don't really know what to do about that. [00:34:37]
THERAPIST: It sounds like it's not something that you need to figure out right now 'cause you – you know you need – you have this – there's a time limit on moving.
CLIENT: Kind of. It isn't really specified though because we don't have someone moving in...
THERAPIST: You don't have someone moving in the space?
CLIENT: It's just – well, I mean I guess I need to get the furniture out too so that Aaron can schedule the appointment to have the floors in my old room be redone because they're sad linoleum. And when he redid the other floors in that apartment, I didn't have another place to be, so I was like you know what, I'm fine with my floors. And now we actually have the room free that we can fix it. So like my furniture needs to be out soonish, but it's not like...
THERAPIST: Well, but for yourself? You said you felt like you need to have this out of the way in order to focus on job stuff. And you can't let that go forever.
CLIENT: But now I'm going to – then I'll be like regretting the fact that I never got to paint the walls.
THERAPIST: Why can't you paint the walls after?
CLIENT: Because there will be all this stuff in the way 'cause I have stuff.
THERAPIST: Do you have so much stuff that it couldn't be moved to do a painting for – on a weekend?
CLIENT: Not on a weekend, because Shabbat would make it so I'd only have one day on the weekend. But... I guess not. I'm not sure. It's hard – the other thing is it's hard to visualize my stuff in the other space. Like I'm having trouble doing it. [00:36:05]
THERAPIST: Yeah. I think – you know, if there wasn't any option. You know, if all the rooms were filled, and you wanted to make a mural, you would find a way to do it. I think that this is a problem that you can solve around, and delaying moving is delaying these big things hanging over your head.
CLIENT: Except that I'm sort of afraid that then I'll just get lazy and never do it. And that would be sad about never even doing it, but not sad enough that I actually do it. And I don't want that to happen. But there's really no way of preventing that at this point.
THERAPIST: You're putting lots of energy into convincing me why you can't do it this way. So what if you turn that energy someplace else?
CLIENT: Just move? But then what about my mural? I'll like...
THERAPIST: Maybe the energy of – instead could go to that. To planning that. To making it happen. 'Cause right now you're — you're talking yourself and me out of the idea that you could do it. And I wonder if you use that energy to talk yourself into ways that you can make it more likely to happen.
CLIENT: Those are problems of not knowing... not knowing how my stuff is going to look in that room. Not knowing whether or not I have the wall space to do it. [00:37:23]
THERAPIST: Well, there's a lot of uncertainty.
CLIENT: And I won't know until I have the stuff in my room, which is why I wish that I could just paint it all before I get my stuff in the room, but... The other thing is also I have to be careful with this one. With the other one, I could just paint whatever because my floor was a crappy floor. But here I have to like have drop cloths underneath and everything to make sure I don't get paint on the nice wood paneled floors that are real wood and not fake wood. They were new floors that Aaron got put in, so I – it would be really bad if I damaged them. It just seems like it's going to be a lot of fiddliness to work around things and... tape and all that.
THERAPIST: A little bit more setup than in the other room.
CLIENT: Yeah. So this is why I just seem so overwhelmed because there's all of these little bits and pieces that... If we just get stuff from point A to point B, it wouldn't be as bad. You know, and then I'm thinking I want a new desk because the current yarn desk that I have is going to go to the person who will live in my room, my old room. But my real – the desk that belongs to me is currently in the beit midrash. It is like this huge flat thingy, which was fine when I was like in the old place, but I feel like it takes up a lot of space. And it's also finding the beit midrash, and I'm okay with it staying there and like belonging to the beit midrash, but I want a desk that's smaller and has more storage space, and it's a just like flat table thing. So I'm having to get that, but... at least I have really – Sydney has lots of free time so he probably could just go to Why-uh-key-uh (ph) and get a desk, assuming we could fit it into his car. But... because he has a compact car. Not like tiny, tiny, but, you know, it isn't like a station wagon or a minivan so... and not even knowing what furniture is going to be in my room makes it scary. [00:39:31]
THERAPIST: Yeah. So it sounds like it's time – it – maybe the first step is – is sitting down and spending some time kind of coming up with a plan. Looking at the space, trying to do some imagining about what might go where, and even trying that out before you move on to the next steps of figuring out – see what – seeing what your stuff looks like in the room before you plan what kind of desk you want in addition, because that might help inform you. But it's – you're – you're jumping ahead to lots of details. Details about painting, details about furniture, and you haven't actually started some of the bigger pieces that you know. You know, there's some constants probably. Some furniture that you know you're going to move from one place to the next. Let yourself do the things that you know. And then, one by one, you can start answering these questions for yourself. But I think you're getting anxious as you think about all the kind of different permutations that could take. Start with what you know and let yourself actually fill in some of those blanks by maybe moving that stuff.
CLIENT: Well, the problem is I don't know that much. And there's another dresser that could come into it too that's at my parents' place that they say I could have. But I didn't really get a chance to look at it since – when I was there over Shabbat and when I came back from Israel 'cause when I came back from Israel, I was all stressed out about having to get back so like I wasn't in a position to look at the dresser. And so I can't imagine it because I didn't look at it. And that affects other things because it's like if I have that dresser, you know, I might not take another smaller dresser, so really it's... and I don't know when I'm getting that dresser. So I can't even move in all my furniture because I don't know what all my furniture is. I can move my bed.
THERAPIST: Okay. Well, maybe that's the starting point. Start with what you know.
CLIENT: Yeah. And I can move all the things in my yarn closet to the new yarn closet. [00:41:40]
THERAPIST: Yeah. Okay.
CLIENT: Like...
THERAPIST: So – so this I think the process that you want to start with because once you get started, some of the anticipatory anxiety will dissipate. And there are some things that you know, and let – let yourself focus on doing what you can and doing what you know because when you think about all the things that you don't know and all the different permutations that could take, you get anxious. And that doesn't help you. It doesn't help you get started. It doesn't actually help you figure out anything. It just makes you feel uncomfortable.
CLIENT: I'm not even sure how I'm going to see everything because – I mean of daylight, but like – we don't – there's no overhead light in the room.
THERAPIST: Well, you may have to borrow somebody else's lamp or something.
CLIENT: I mean there's some desk lamps, but like then, I have to plug them in, but where am I going to plug them in when I'm moving furniture? If there just were an overhead light I...
THERAPIST: It would make it easier, but these other things are not challenges that you can't overcome. You can grab a box and put a lamp on it in the corner and give you enough light to see what you're doing. These are things you can do. And is it the easiest? Maybe not, but that's okay. You're very capable of doing things that are not the easiest way.
CLIENT: Yeah. I already know that, but I need outlets. Who designed this – why would someone design a room without like an overhead light? That makes no sense at all. [00:43:03]
THERAPIST: Those were probably built a very long time ago.
CLIENT: It was (laughter), but the other rooms do have overhead lights. And this one just doesn't. And I just don't... I can't comprehend it. Like I don't know why they never did it. There was this lamp that was on the side, but now it's – I guess Joan took it down and like, yeah, right now there are noth – there is no light that is plugged in there.
THERAPIST: You just need to – you need some lighting, but you can – I'm sure that you can borrow in order to do that from someone in the house.
CLIENT: It's just that having all these little... those pieces when I'm moving as opposed to something overhead that like just stays there.
THERAPIST: But you – but that's not an option, right? You're not going to have an electrician come in and wire a new light.
CLIENT: I mean...
THERAPIST: So...
CLIENT: ...maybe I should because it's a – it's something that needs to be done. I need to ask Aaron about it, but... because he'd be paying for it because it's his house, but... Actually, I do want an electrician to come in and put in an overhead light. I mean the other option is seeing if there are track lights that can have a plug and not be, you know, electrically wired. Like not wired behind the scenes and stuff, but just like having it running. It's just like – you can't even just turn all the lights off and – on and off with a switch. Like that alone is just annoying. I know (inaudible at 00:44:32) moving, you know, and I could always.
THERAPIST: But for some reason it is a really big deal to you. I wonder what's making it that... feel that strong 'cause objectively, there are lots of ways to get light in a room, but thinking about this, if it's bringing you to tears, so it makes me think that there might be something else deriving your response.
CLIENT: Maybe. Maybe I just shouldn't be doing this move because now I – like they give me – it's a lot of trouble for not that much gain.
THERAPIST: So I think that's maybe the question you want to look at. Do you really want to switch rooms? Because the – you know, what I'm noticing is thinking about the steps of it, each step in itself, you feel like, you know, annoying, but certainly obstacles that if you wanted to move, you could easily overcome.
CLIENT: Yeah. Well, and like I thought I did...
THERAPIST: But...
CLIENT: ... and because like in my room currently, there is all this random stuff on the floor because I don't have space to put it in because I don't have space for more dressers and stuff. So like...
THERAPIST: So it might be nice to have that space. Maybe you'll trade it and – some conveniences for other con – you know. [00:45:38]
CLIENT: I just wish I could be moving into a room that like I had the time to paint the mural on ahead of time and had ceiling lights and outlets. I mean a lot of the rooms in the house don't have that many, and so like, you know, you need the power strips and stuff, but typically (crosstalk).
THERAPIST: Yeah, that's pretty common in older homes not to have a whole lot of outlets.
CLIENT: Yeah. A little bit less common to not have an overhead light.
THERAPIST: So I think you're – I think really what maybe the most important question to figure out for yourself is, is it – is it worth it to you to make this move? What are you getting? What are some of the inconveniences? And figure out what you really want first. In the logistics of it, I'm confident that you can work out if you decide you want to move.
CLIENT: And the problem – it's too late for me. Like I already decided this. I think it's too late.
THERAPIST: But you don't have someone moving into that room, right?
CLIENT: I don't, but Aaron wants to do the floors and stuff, but – like I needed to make that decision weeks ago. [00:46:32]
THERAPIST: Well, make it for yourself again. And then, if it turns out that the answer is different, talk to Aaron and see if you can change on it. And with no one else coming into the room right now, it's not like if you change your mind, any person is going to be affected. Aaron's plans to do the floor might get affected, but figure out what you really want.
CLIENT: And that's not like it's the work that we did in Joan's room to get it ready to move into was something that wouldn't be helpful for someone else moving in either. You know, she like left all this crap in her room that we then had to get rid of, and so, you know, and she left all this furniture that we had to get rid of, and she – and also, there were like icky things stuck to the floor, which we had to like mop and clean and stuff. That needed to be done no matter what, so the only unnecessary thing that we'll have done is to have moved my stuff from one closet to the other, but...
THERAPIST: That could be undone if that's what you end up really wanting.
CLIENT: Yeah. But we also decided that the other reason for this was because of over ten, you know, living on the side of the house that I'd be moving to... and new person not used to being would be – be – it would be easier to find someone if they're moving to a room that they have space away from the baby. Even though the baby isn't that bad, and it's not like I need to constantly flee to my room or anything like that. But for someone to then come into this situation and like – it would take a lot I think 'cause most people my age, if they don't have kids, they're not like... [00:48:06]
THERAPIST: Are not prepared to live with...
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: ... kids.
CLIENT: So it's like going to be hard to find a person as is.
THERAPIST: Well, I want you to try to focus on one decision at a time so you don't get too overwhelmed and not think about all the – this – not – instead of thinking about well, this thing affects that thing, which affects that thing, which affects that thing. While those are true, it's harder to make that many complicated decisions at once and try to let yourself make one plan and one choice at a time.
(Pause)
THERAPIST: You'll feel a little bit less overwhelmed and if you can take it one piece at a time instead of trying to figure out the whole... whole puzzle. We do have to stop for today. And are we on for our regular time on Monday?
CLIENT: Yes.
THERAPIST: At 3:30?
CLIENT: Okay, 3:30.
THERAPIST: I will see you then.
(Background noise)
END TRANSCRIPT
