Transcript of Audio File:
______________________________________________________________________________
BEGIN TRANSCRIPT:
CLIENT: Well, it's the last week of classes. I'm a bit stressed.
THERAPIST: How much is a bit?
CLIENT: Well, I think I'm stressed not because of the end of the classes, but tomorrow I've got this all day long shoot at this lab at Yale that starts at — I have to be there at 7:30 in the morning and it's going to go out to like 8:00 at night.
THERAPIST: That's a really long day. [00:00:52]
CLIENT: I'm only going to be there until 10:30. Then I'm back at like 5:30, so I don't have to worry about the whole day, but I have to do what I can to make sure we're prepared, which I think I've done, but it's nonetheless stressful because [these other three people] (ph) have never done this before. It's not going to keep me up tonight, but it's just another thing that — there's some loose ends I need to tie up before tomorrow. So other than that, the week is pretty free and clear. There are things to do next week, but I'm not really concerned about those. [00:02:01]
(pause) So yeah, I'm not really present right now as you can tell.
THERAPIST: Where are you?
CLIENT: [Probably can tell.] (ph) I'm in my e-mail inbox. So yes, I'm here now, and sensing the — kind of the anxiety that I'm feeling physically (pause) — yeah, I'm here now. But I don't know where to start. [00:03:00]
THERAPIST: Close your eyes for a minute. Take a couple deep breaths. Let whatever feels important just come to you. (pause) When you feel like you have a sense of what feels important now, then you know what to start with.
CLIENT: Well, (pause) [00:04:02] I think an ongoing issue for me is — we may have talked about this even recently, but is putting sharp edges around things that people are saying, that aren't necessarily there. And although I'm processing these things after the fact with some of the DBT (ph) skills, it's — I'm still trying to figure out what it is that's making me vulnerable to seeing these things this way. [00:05:00]
(pause) It's like the skills I'm learning are applicable after the fact, but in the moment it's hard for me to see the reality of the situation at hand.
THERAPIST: How much time is between the moment and after the fact?
CLIENT: When I realize that — or when I try to tell myself? It can be ten minutes; it can be a half a day. [00:06:01]
I think it depends on how frequent I resort to that kind of analysis, to say, "Wait a minute," but it's not really second nature yet. I am aware that not getting enough sleep will add to my vulnerability, so I'm trying to do that, to get enough sleep, but (pause) for whatever reason, I think you mentioned this months ago, I require feedback, and if I don't get it I tend to make up a story that says, "Well they didn't like it, they think I'm stupid," you know, whatever. [00:07:15] These things kind of rule my life sometimes. I'll send an e-mail to somebody, and if they don't get back to me, the story grows.
THERAPIST: So you're making up feedback in the absence of feedback.
CLIENT: Yeah, yeah, exactly. So yeah, I don't know (pause) — [00:08:04]
I guess I don't know why I do that. I'm guessing it's some sort of ego boost that's — I mean maybe along the same lines as seeking the attention of a female. I don't know. I guess that's feedback. But I don't know if I've considered in this case what it is. It's not an escape, but it's a — it's like a plea. It's a request. So I don't know what it is that I'm lacking that requires that kind of boost. [00:09:06]
THERAPIST: It's hard to sit with not knowing. In the absence of a response from someone to an e-mail, or a verbal response that doesn't give you much of a sense what they're thinking one way or the other, it's very hard to sit with not knowing. Not knowing what somebody thinks of you or your idea, uncertainty about what you'll be doing next, you know, waiting to hear about an application or something like that. It's hard to not know, and so very often we fill in those blanks when we can't tolerate the uncertainty. [00:09:45]
CLIENT: Yeah, but it seems like some things are put out there that are voluntary, that are — I don't know — some sort of outreach for approval, or for contact, or I don't know what.
THERAPIST: So you feel like you're putting things out to get a response?
CLIENT: That's what I'm wondering.
THERAPIST: That are not appropriate?
CLIENT: No. That are just (pause) — I don't know — that seem to some extent trivial. Some of the things I'm doing are work related or school related and they need to be done, but I guess I'm wondering if the motive behind them is, "This is so great. I'm going to send it to the group and they're going to love it and they're going to tell me that it's great." [00:11:15]
With that kind of setup without getting that back, that it's even been read, I'm not just submitting something for them to consider; I'm submitting my well-being for them to validate, and I don't — I guess I just don't understand where that's coming from. To me it seems like it's the same thing as the attention of women.
THERAPIST: You've asked them to validate a different part of you. [00:11:57]
CLIENT: Yeah. But when I think about when I enter fantasy mode, that seems different, because it's not necessarily fed by another person's presence.
THERAPIST: Yeah, it does seem different to me. It seems like it holds maybe a different purpose. The fantasies, that's something that you do independent of the other person, and maybe it's escapism, maybe it's actually seeking the physiological arousal that you may have with the fantasy, or just the emotional arousal that you have, so it might be kind of seeking that kind of feeling, but it seems like this other thing you're talking about, putting something out there, whether it be putting yourself out there and seeing if you get some attention back, or hoping that you'll get attention back, or putting your work out there and hoping that you'll get some kudos for your brilliance, that's — you're seeking validation rather than the motivation being the feeling. [00:13:18]
I think, within degrees, that's normal and not problematic. We do need validation from others. Of course these things are always on a scale. Some people need more than others. There might be a degree at which it's not problematic at all, and then maybe there's a line somewhere in the sand where, depending upon how often, or how much, or how much you're impacted by getting validation or not getting it, whether it really is problematic or not.
CLIENT: To me it seems like it affects my ability to be in the moment, when I'm not getting it. Like my whole world is on pause till I get something back. [00:14:08]
THERAPIST: So that can be a little bit — it feels like it's getting in the way.
CLIENT: It is getting in the way. I mean it's definitely getting in the way. It's like I'm checking my e-mail regularly, and it's like — I don't know. That's all I can do. Or I'm just thinking about it.
THERAPIST: Or you're off in your head —
CLIENT: Or I'm making something up.
THERAPIST: — wondering about what they're going to say or making up the responses in your head.
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: So that's why it's problematic.
CLIENT: Yeah. So — I don't know what to do.
THERAPIST: How do you pull yourself out of your head and back to where you are in the moment? [00:14:55]
CLIENT: Well, there are times when I say — like this recent example, I said to myself, "Well, two of these three people are under deadline for their thesis."
THERAPIST: So they may not be responding.
CLIENT: They might not know how to respond if they haven't done this before, they might not have the time to respond, and so on and so forth. As history has shown, since I started working with this group, they don't respond to a lot of e-mails, but the fact that this e-mail is relevant for tomorrow's shoot, I would hope that they would see the importance of considering it before tomorrow.
THERAPIST: So two things going on in this particular example. One is wanting feedback from whatever it is that you sent out, but the other piece is you're anxious about being prepared, because you're kind of waiting on their feedback so that you feel prepared for the shoot tomorrow? [00:16:12]
CLIENT: Or at least come up with something better. I'm not going to be there for most of the day, and I'm the one who's got the most experience in doing this kind of stuff, and whatever. It's kind of in their hands. I guess at some level I've done what I can do. I can let go and say, "This is" —
THERAPIST: What's the impact of the result of how it goes tomorrow on you?
CLIENT: Well, I'm still going to graduate.
THERAPIST: Okay. There's a baseline. [00:17:01]
CLIENT: Yeah. Frankly, I don't know that I care too much when I think about it, but when I'm doing a project like this, I'm back in my professional mode, and there's a product that you have to produce, and it has to be broadcast quality and interesting, and this I'm starting to realize doesn't. So if tomorrow goes horribly wrong, it will not be because of something I did or didn't do. (pause) [00:18:00]
So now I am in the moment, and have thought through the consequences of either tomorrow going horribly wrong, or the other members of the group not reviewing my proposal, what have you.
THERAPIST: It's important to separate kind of why you're anxious about their response, and then from there you get to decide what to do with it. So in this case, it seems like you were anxious partly because you were feeling like you were dependent upon them in order to be prepared. So thinking through what worst-case scenario, "What if this is as prepared as we get?" Worst-case scenario, well it's not broadcast quality, but it's not really your fault and you still graduate. Best-case scenario, it goes pretty well, and great. You still graduate. [00:19:12]
CLIENT: Yeah. So there's no real jeopardy here. The point is this is a class for people to learn how to do this, and it's not a class for me to learn how to do this as much as it is for them to learn how to do this. I'm learning things that I didn't know before and that's why I'm taking it, but —
THERAPIST: But you have much more background probably than the majority of —
CLIENT: Yeah, and they — I don't know that they realize that the things I'm suggesting are based on experience and need consideration, because they just don't have the experience in a professional environment.
THERAPIST: Do they know that you do? [00:19:58]
CLIENT: They know I've got a background in radio production, doing some documentary work, but I don't know that they understand the importance of some of the things that I'm suggesting they do. So (pause) you know. On one level, being part of a group has its benefits and drawbacks, and being one of four is — I don't want to run the thing. I absolutely do not want to run it. I want them to step up and learn as much as they can. I just don't want it to go bad if they don't step up and do it, and I can't control that. Not being there for a major chunk of the day, I really can't control that. [00:21:01]
I don't know. I guess what's coming to mind is the need to actually assess the stakes, and just figure out what the risk is. Is the risk mitigated by something I can do? Fine. I'll do that. Is the risk going to be the same if I don't do something? Okay fine.
THERAPIST: It's that reality checking we talked about.
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: What about the scenario where you're waiting for feedback on a paper, or waiting to hear back about, you know, response to a proposal or something, where you're hoping to get a response that's, "Brilliant, love the idea," you know, good ego-boasting, "you're a rock star" type of feedback? What can you do in that scenario, when you're checking your e-mail repeatedly, waiting to hear that kind of thing back? [00:22:13]
CLIENT: Well (pause) — are you separating the example I've given you from —
THERAPIST: Yeah.
CLIENT: Okay.
THERAPIST: Because I was under the impression that both kind of exist for you. Is that —
CLIENT: They exist to a degree. Like for this fellowship I got, I wasn't checking my e-mail for that because I had no idea when it was going to come in. It's like a month-long spectrum, and I didn't really (pause) — that would have been really obsessive over a long period of time. But the stakes for that were much higher. [00:22:59]
THERAPIST: So how did you set that aside and stay present and not be thinking, "When are they going to get back? What are they going to say?"
CLIENT: Well I think the reason is that that affects something months away. This particular thing affects something two days from when I sent it. I have — I think part of what's feeding my insecurity about it is that they are all in the science writing program. This is of course Yale. I am not a science person. I don't dislike it; it's just not something I'm drawn to. They've had experience in writing science stories, and the part of what needs to be told in a scientific explanation. So I kind of feel out of my element, and at the same time I still think these things need to be done. [00:24:18]
I don't know where I was going with that, but I'm just acknowledging, I guess, that there is a insecurity about what I bring to it intellectually versus experientially, if that makes sense.
THERAPIST: And that drives some of the anxiety in waiting for the response.
CLIENT: I think so. Yeah.
THERAPIST: Maybe that's what makes it easier kind of in the other scenario. You don't have that same sort of — you didn't have that insecurity in waiting to hear back about the funding. [00:25:03]
CLIENT: Yeah. Oh and I found out by that time that I wasn't getting the scholarship, so I don't know. I think that in some ways dampened my expectation of getting it, so — I don't know. But even then, I think when dealing with not committees but other people, it is important for me to consider my own circumstances. How quickly do I get back to people about something? And because I'm older and have had experience professionally, I think I have a tendency to respond rather quickly to people about something that needs immediate response. I think a lot of these kids, 24 years old, don't have any professional experience, so deadlines are fudged, and extensions are granted, and late submissions are accepted, and all these things that I just don't go by, just because of my experience. So I do have to reconcile that reality. [00:26:35]
THERAPIST: One technique is what you're using. It's doing the reality checking, and creating alternate explanations to yourself, looking for what are the possible explanations for why the person hasn't responded. How much does it really impact me? The other side of that is distress tolerance, because doing reality checking is one way to reduce your distress. You don't need to feel so anxious about it because of all these other reasons. That's a perfectly valid technique. [00:27:10]
The other piece is building up your distress tolerance, and that way it's sort of acknowledging what your — you know, pulling yourself back to the present and just sitting with it. One way to pull yourself back to the present is to do sort of objective reporting, noticing what you're doing. "I notice that I'm checking my e-mail for the 400th time looking for this response." Just a straight-out, non-judgmental, just "What am I doing? Checking my e-mail again. What am I feeling?" And labeling for yourself what you're feeling. "I'm really anxious that I haven't gotten a response. I'm worrying that..." you know, helping yourself fill in the blanks. And then allowing yourself to take a few deep breaths, feel what you're feeling, and release it. That's building up your distress tolerance. [00:27:58]
Because there are going to be times when maybe there isn't an explanation, or the explanation doesn't work to decrease what you're feeling, or — it also works — in this instance it's the anxiety of not getting a response, but there are other times when we have emotional reactions to things that don't necessarily need to get talked down or put away. Something happens and you're really sad, and you're going to feel really sad, and you need to kind of feel that for a little bit before you move on from it. You don't want to get stuck in it forever, but we do need to build up an ability to sit with uncomfortable emotions sometimes.
CLIENT: So when you say this is building up a distress tolerance, is the idea that going through this process then actually increases your tolerance for later things? [00:28:53]
THERAPIST: Yes. That it's almost like building up a muscle. You do however many squats at whatever weight, and then you're able to do more, without increased pain. You add more — If you haven't practiced, if you haven't built up the muscle and you add a 50-pound weight to either side of your bar, it's going to really hurt if you try to do the next rep, but if you've practiced and you've built up to that weight, then it doesn't feel like added weight anymore. It doesn't feel painful. There's no increased difficulty because you've actually gotten better at that particular exercise. And the same thing with feelings. Practicing distress tolerance means that you can actually handle, you can cope with, feelings that before might have been debilitating, and now they're not.
CLIENT: Is it that you in going through this process, your tolerance is increased by the fact that you don't need to go through that process, or that you go to that process sooner? [00:30:00]
THERAPIST: The process of noticing what you're feeling and labeling it?
CLIENT: Yeah. Do you understand my question?
THERAPIST: Yeah. Your ability to handle it — I think both. I think your ability to cope with the feeling is one. Every time you practice noticing what you're feeling and acknowledging it, you get better at knowing what you're feeling. We use this word "anxiety" a lot, "I'm feeling anxiety," but some would argue that anxiety actually is just undifferentiated feeling, that actually you're feeling a more specific emotion. Like if you look at the primary emotions, anxiety is not among them. Our primary emotions are anger, fear, joy. Anxiety often — we often use that label of anxiety when we're feeling something uncomfortable but we don't really know exactly what it is. Sometimes when you can actually label it more specifically and know what it is, it becomes much easier to face. [00:31:01]
So part of distress tolerance is getting practice at really being clear about what it is you're doing and feeling, and it allows us to cope with the actual feeling better. And part of it is the practice of having sat through it, because that sort of teaches us that we can handle it. It increases our resilience, so we don't have to be as fearful of it and do other things to try to make it go away. If you know that the anxiety is not going to kill you and it's not going to be debilitating and it's not going to actually prevent you from being successful, it becomes a lot less threatening.
CLIENT: Yeah, I think I use the word "anxiety" for fear generally. (pause) I think if it's not dealt with it can move into anger based on things I make up. [00:32:08]
THERAPIST: For me the difference between fear and anxiety is when you can label it for yourself as fear, then you get to look at "What am I really afraid of?" And then that process of, "Does it make sense to be afraid of that?" that reality checking, makes much more sense. It's much more effective. That same question doesn't work with anxiety. "What am I really anxious of?" It doesn't make sense. "What am I really anxious about?" We can switch the words and try to make it more sense, but we're anxious about all sorts of things. It's not as specific. So then the reality testing doesn't always have the same effect.
CLIENT: (pause) Is uncertainty an emotion? [00:33:07]
THERAPIST: Not a primary one.
CLIENT: Okay. Well, because I think anxiety, uncertainty, and fear are kind of braided together sometimes for me, and I don't know if (pause) — I've thought about uncertainty and the problem with accepting it, on a large scale, on an individual scale. It's nonetheless present because I've thought about it. I mean it's there —
THERAPIST: So if we were to dig underneath it, what does the uncertainty make you feel? What feeling —
CLIENT: Fear. [00:34:02]
THERAPIST: Yeah. There are lots of complex emotions, and the more experience you have and the older you get the more we tend to combine things, but a lot of times you can simplify them down to your more basic, sort of primal emotions that — things that you could recognize on somebody else's face that you would never talk to. There are certain — and you can see a snapshot of someone from another nation with another language and completely different customs, and know what certain feelings are being portrayed through that quick snapshot. Those are your primary feelings. And when we boil things down to that level, that is often where we're able to make the most progress about what is it that's really driving this, and why is it so hard for me? [00:34:55] (long pause)
So when I asked what feeling uncertainty brought up, you said fear. What is it that you're really afraid of? What are the things that scare you the most? [00:36:03]
CLIENT: Failure, looking foolish — you mean just generally?
THERAPIST: For some reason I did big picture, like life question. Who knows why.
CLIENT: (pause) My future wellbeing. And as I say those things, I'm sure there are more, but I am — I do acknowledge that you can use anxiety or fear to motivate you. I use it to motivate me so I don't fail, so I don't look foolish, so I do prepare in advance of a production so that it doesn't fail. [00:37:27]
THERAPIST: [It also can be a really] (ph) uncomfortable motivator.
CLIENT: Yeah, but it's effective, at least for the outcome. Whether it's unhealthy for me I don't know. I mean I'm sure (ph) it is unhealthy.
THERAPIST: Well I think it's effective with side effects. Just like when we look at medication, certain side effects we say, "Well that's acceptable because the benefit outweighs the risk," and certain medications never come to light because the side effects are so detrimental that it's not worth it. [00:38:08]
I think about fear in that way. I always use the example of Bobby Knight, the basketball coach. Very successful teams. That man used fear as a motivator, and he had some really good teams and a lot of success. I know I'm totally aging myself. There is a drawback though. I didn't go there.
CLIENT: (inaudible) Indiana?
THERAPIST: Yeah.
CLIENT: Okay.
THERAPIST: (inaudible) basketball fan. There was some drawbacks. First of all, you have to think about like what were those kids feeling? Did they still love the game? How long did they stay on his team? How many of them made it to graduation, or did they simply use it as a launching board to get elsewhere? Was it worth it? [00:39:03]
Versus quieter coaches that might not be as noticeable, don't stand out in your mind as much, but use some other method to motivate their players and got — maybe they didn't win as many championships. They are still probably pretty successful. And what were they building along the way without having some of the same impact, some of the same side effects? There are other things you can use to motivate yourself on a personal level that might not create as much anxiety but still create forward movement. This is where I kind of often think about — positive reward actually works better than punishment. Fear is a punishing motivator. [00:39:54]
CLIENT: So what would be a positive reward? Let's say I (pause) — let's say I go to this final that is a week from Saturday. It's three hours long, and it will determine my grade for this semester. As opposed to the questionable value in — what am I trying to say? As opposed to the averted failure that I am suffusing this with, when this grade isn't going to affect the fact that I'm going to graduate, I'm still going to be going down this research fellowship, all in all it's whether or not I get an A or a B — so what would be an example of the positive — [00:41:27]
THERAPIST: So turn it around for yourself, because when you think about yourself it's much harder. But say you were tutoring some 18-year-old student who came over here not speaking much English and you're tutoring him in English. I'm using a younger kid because they're more malleable. You're trying to motivate this student to study, to prepare for their final. So your fear motivator would be, "If you don't put in the time, you're not going to pass, and then you're not going to be able to" — whatever. "You're not going to be able to stay and study here. You're going to fail if you don't study." What would you use as positive motivation to sit down and study for the final? [00:42:12]
CLIENT: You get to stay. I mean that's — that to me would be the biggest motivator.
THERAPIST: And that's looking for what can you do. It's not actually — you're not making stuff up. If you put in the time, you're going to be able to stay and complete the program. That's positive reward. You're going to get something for what you do, rather than we're going to take something away if you don't do it.
Another way — a lot of times kind of thinking about giving a reward in increments. So for yourself that might mean, "Okay, I'm going to put in an hour and at the end of the hour I'm going to go get a frozen yogurt." Versus, "If you don't study you're not going to have time for dinner tonight." You know? Like finding — whether it be a tangible reward along the way, or just speaking to yourself kindly is actually a way of positive reward. "You're doing a good job studying. You've completed three out of four semesters." Thinking about what you've done rather than scaring yourself with what you might not do. [00:43:31]
CLIENT: I guess it's just hard to reconcile that with the fact that it really doesn't matter too much to me what happens on this final. I mean with that said, I still care about it, and I want to do well, but when I think about it, the way I diffuse it, "de-fuse" it, is by erasing its significance altogether. What I don't know is — [00:44:21]
THERAPIST: Well there's a difference between what it means to you to do well, and what you need to move forward with the next phase of your plan. Like you said, it doesn't really matter so much what you do on the final. You're still getting (inaudible) on your research project, you're still going to graduate, but it does sound like there's importance, personal importance to a certain level of mastery, whether that's reflected in the grade or not. And that's I think, a deep personal importance is what you want to focus on, because that's what you end up carrying with you much longer. You're not going to remember necessarily the grade that you got. No one is going to look at it, but if you feel like you put in the effort and got the level of mastery that you wanted, the feeling that you get from that is what will carry with you. [00:45:09]
CLIENT: Yeah. I mean when I consider why I'm doing it, of course I'm not doing it for the grade; [I'm doing it to] (ph) develop a mastery of the language. (pause) Which I guess changes the weight of it. It seems less like a dubious goal as opposed to an authentic goal.
THERAPIST: And hopefully it feels — if you can change how you think about things, it feels less like someone kind of pushing you from behind with a hot poker, and more like someone holding the carrot out in front of you that you're going to get at the end, you know. It feels like being pulled along, being motivated, rather than being forced and —
CLIENT: Coerced. [00:46:13]
THERAPIST: Coerced. And I think fear as a motivator feels like coercion. "Do this or else," versus "Come on, you can do this. You'll get something good out of it."
CLIENT: Yeah. I mean the thing that I'm trying to develop, at least in the past few weeks, is the positive motivator to start my papers earlier. Because I know that if I push them, that fear takes over.
THERAPIST: That's not a comfortable place to write from.
CLIENT: No, it's not, and it's like I know the benefits of taking the time, even if it's a half an hour at night, just to think through things. It's almost like I'm saying to myself, "Put in this time now, and you won't be anxious later." [00:47:16]
THERAPIST: So the positive way of looking at that would be, "Put in this time now, and you will feel better." Hear the difference? It's looking at — just changing your mind for that from looking at the positive things you gain, rather than looking at what you're missing.
CLIENT: Or what doom is ahead of you.
THERAPIST: Right, doom is ahead — yeah.
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: And the science to back this up is in all those learning studies with mice, when they look at if you want to teach a mouse to press on a bar, give them a pellet after pressing rather than shocking them for not pressing. People do better, and there's tons of that stuff, which you should not necessarily go look up now, but it's all based on learning theory of what happens. You teach behavior much more effectively by giving a positive reward rather than punishing. Punishing is when you take away something good. [00:48:14]
So can you get a rat to press on a bar by removing food if they don't do what they're supposed to? You can, but it takes a lot longer than by piling on the goodies when they do the good behavior. And same thing, if you teach somebody to do something by giving them a painful consequence, you can, but it doesn't last as long, and it doesn't stick through different situations. We tend to learn behavior faster, and keep it, and be able to spread it out over different situations when we get good stuff for doing what we want to do. And for more evolved species like humans, it doesn't have to be a tangible reward. It can be simply the way — it can be a feeling, it can be the way you talk to yourself. [00:49:02]
CLIENT: Yeah. I forget what I was going to say, but that's all right.
THERAPIST: I feel like I've done a lot of talking today, not leaving as much space for you.
CLIENT: No, it's fine. It's fine. I'm learning. (pause) Yeah, I can't remember. Oh, trivial. Tomorrow the shoot is going to be injecting cells into rodents, so (chuckling) your analogy is timely. So just a recap on the distress tolerance. Identify what obsessive thing you might be doing, or whatever you're doing. [00:50:12]
THERAPIST: You have to notice what you're doing in an objective non-judgmental way.
CLIENT: And dig into what the emotion is that's causing that? Identify what is causing that emotion?
THERAPIST: It doesn't have to be a cause. Basically you want to identify what you're feeling. So you don't have to think — this isn't so much thinking. Enough thinking to notice what you're doing, and enough thinking to be able to label the emotion, but it's not a big evaluative process. And then once you've labeled the feeling, take a few deep breaths with it, and then try to let it go. The idea of taking a few deep breaths after noticing the feeling is that's enough time to sit with it. You don't need to torture yourself by sitting with it forever, but you do want to practice sitting with it for a few moments, and then allowing yourself to move on. That's what builds up the tolerance, because you'll have a successful experience of sitting with it. It won't be too overwhelming because it's just a few breaths, but it also won't be so fleeting that you won't — that it won't be something to build upon. [00:51:28]
CLIENT: But as far as an emotion like anger or fear, is sitting with it also asking yourself, "Why?"
THERAPIST: It doesn't have to be part of that process. That can be a separate process, the kind of figuring out what am I really afraid of? That's kind of a separate but equal process, but primarily for the purposes of building up resilience and distress tolerance, you don't have to know that much except for what you're feeling, be able to sit with it and then know — and then being able to let it go knowing that it didn't kill you. Obviously it's not going to kill you, but using it as a — it didn't have to completely interrupt your life. You can then move on from it and move on. [00:52:16] (crosstalk)
CLIENT: But I guess what confuses me is how do you — how does sitting with it (pause) relieve it?
THERAPIST: The sitting with it doesn't relieve it. What we know about feelings is that they follow a natural wave. They intensify and they do go away. So the going away happens all by itself. When we avoid our feelings, we don't give them that chance. So when we feel anxious and then checking out to try to relieve the anxiety, we didn't let it go through the natural process, and what you've taught yourself by accident is that you can't handle that feeling. You got to do something to make it go away. [00:53:07]
So sometimes we do need to make something go away because we feel like we really can't handle it, but building up that other side of not necessarily having to do something to make it go away, but sitting with it and letting it go away, that gives yourself the message of, "Oh, I can handle this. I don't have to avoid it by having a fantasy. I don't have to make it go away by seeking other feedback to make me feel something different. I can know what I'm feeling and it will go away."
CLIENT: Okay.
THERAPIST: It's two completely different skills, and we need both of them.
CLIENT: Okay. All right. Well, I'll try them out.
THERAPIST: Okay. It's a lifelong (inaudible at 00:53:46). Do we have follow-ups?
CLIENT: I don't think we do.
THERAPIST: (inaudible) a guess?
END TRANSCRIPT
