TRANSCRIPT OF AUDIO FILE:
______________________________________________________________________________
BEGIN TRANSCRIPT:
CLIENT: Okay, if that's okay?
THERAPIST: Sure, um... just... sorry. (dragging sound) I try to do it a certain way. 
CLIENT: Um... oh, gosh, I don't know.
THERAPIST: I'll keep an eye on the clock.
CLIENT: Okay, I appreciate that.
THERAPIST: Sure.
CLIENT: I (pause) every once in a while I get insomnia, I had it last night, I couldn't shut my brain off. I hate that. And so I'm kind of a little bit brain-fried today, I apologize. (pause)
THERAPIST: How little sleep did you get?
CLIENT: Less than an hour.
THERAPIST: Oh, my God!
CLIENT: Yeah. I tried, I've been having a lot of weird chronic pains? Like things that are not normal, and if I didn't know better I would honest-to-god think that I had caught my husband's headaches or something, because I have recently been having headaches all the time. 
THERAPIST: Oh, gosh.
CLIENT: And so (pause) it makes it kind of hard to get sleep, so it was really just kind of frustrating for me because I physically thought that I was mentally exhausted, I just could not keep my eyes open and I could not get to sleep. so, yeah. So that was kind of frustrating. (pause)
But (pause)
THERAPIST: Scheduling-wise—I don't want to mention this, but I do have something opening up at (pause) it's either 2:40 or 2:25 on Wednesday. Is that any good, or...?
CLIENT: It's possible. Can I let you know in a day or two?
THERAPIST: Absolutely. Yeah. Only if it's by -
CLIENT: Mornings are not really a problem, I'm generally a morning person.
THERAPIST: Okay. 
CLIENT: It's just that last night—I'm a morning person, I just can't necessarily move, if that makes sense.
THERAPIST: (chuckling) Yeah. 
CLIENT: I'm kind of cognitively there?
THERAPIST: Yeah, I know, you generally are mornings (chuckling).
CLIENT: I'm just not (pause) yeah.
THERAPIST: Just not right. But sure, think about it. Only if it's easier than the Thursday.
CLIENT: Yeah. But yeah, so the (pause) a couple of things but yeah, it's just been—trying to think in my head all of the things I have to get done, and all of the things I want to do, and all of that stuff. Sometimes it's just—it's not necessarily trying to think through my day, unless it's just normal. Normally when I have anxiety it's pinpointed toward something. I am afraid that "x." It's usually actually relatively well-founded, like, "I'm afraid they're going to turn off my electricity because they sent me a thing saying they're going to turn off my electricity." It's not like I'm agreeing with this. But last night and a little bit lately I've been feeling like this generalized, I don't know what seems wrong? But definitely feeling some things seem off, and I feel like I need to be kind of (pause) I'm just very anxious because I can't figure it out. Does that make sense? Like something seems off, I don't know what it is? It can be nothing, completely be noise in the system. But I just haven't been able to relax enough to get to sleep for more than... you know, a certain period of time. So it's just been kind of frustrating. [00:04:22]
So that's been going on. (pause) I did talk to my husband about doing some things together, so that's good. He's pretty good about that.
THERAPIST: Good.
CLIENT: Yeah. We have an unspecified date to do something, could actually be still at my house, that's okay. It's not going to be like it's separately doing things in the house separately. On Friday, and I think next week, we're going to try and find a time we can go out. We need to go out and do some stuff.
THERAPIST: This would be Friday, instead of just going to gaming?
CLIENT: Yeah. 
THERAPIST: Good.
CLIENT: Yep. So, we'll see. (pause) The big problem that I have, and I've told him this a couple of times, and it's kind of frustrating, is that I feel like I am saying these things and they are being ignored in the moment. Like, seriously, very sincerely saying, "Yes, oh my gosh, that sounds great," and then it never registers beyond that moment. And it's (pause) it's kind of frustrating. (pause) Possibly maybe even more frustrating than someone who doesn't remember it, and yet acknowledges it? You know? About things—"You know, I would really like to do this." "Well, I think that's kind of silly." But they could remember I picked a preference? 
THERAPIST: Yeah.
CLIENT: You know? So that's been (pause) I talked to him a little bit about that, and we'll see, I don't know. I don't know. 
He's got a lot on his plate right now, but he's pretty overwhelmed. He's dealing with his first office bully, which is kind of sad that he's made it to 39 years old and he hasn't come across this yet. Unfortunately, this person is in a vaguely higher position related to him. He seems to think that Dave is his tech—her tech, actually. Someone who needs to get papers out, and stuff like that. So we'll see. So he is calling his advisor this morning, and getting some advice on how to deal with it. I am trying to push him onto talking to people he knows—maybe not people who are at the same university, on how to deal with this kind of stuff. Because one, I think long term he's going to take their advice a little more to heart, two, I think it's really good for him to get off his butt and actually talk to people, and three, because they probably will give better advice on how to handle the situation than I will. (pause) 
I just feel overwhelmed. I feel really overwhelmed.
THERAPIST: Yeah. (pause) I've just been listening to what you're saying for some hint or clue as to what's overwhelming you so much. [00:08:06]
CLIENT: Yeah, I'm talking to you about some things that are just really, really heavy. But I just feel overwhelmed about something, and I can't figure it out. I think it may just be life. 
THERAPIST: But life hasn't, in any obvious way that I know of, changed much.
CLIENT: No, not really. I think sometimes, though, I also sort of focus on the norm in front of me, and occasionally when I pause and look to see what things are really like, it's more than I can handle. Which is why I focus on the norm in front of me. Because I can do the self-indoctrination.
THERAPIST: One step at a time.
CLIENT: Not even that way. The self-indoctrination of, "Oh, this is really negative, let's find a way to make this positive so it's somewhat palatable to deal with."
THERAPIST: I see. 
CLIENT: You know? (pause) 
Because if I have to deal with it long enough, and thinking it's more than I can always handle. (pause)
THERAPIST: What were you thinking and feeling as you were tossing and turning last night?
CLIENT: I thought about the need to get patio furniture, because I would like to actually start eating outside. (chuckling) I know this is like seriously -
THERAPIST: No, no. Go ahead.
CLIENT: So (pause) I spent—even though I was really, really, really tired I spent some time on Craigslist looking to see if I could find somebody's old patio furniture. These aren't really like big things.
THERAPIST: You don't know yet what it's going to lead to. 
CLIENT: I'm trying to remember all these things here. I basically looked into what the—I thought about the fact that, Dave and I talked about how we really need a vacation. And that leaving next June, maybe what I'd look into right now—I have a lot of frequent flyer miles that I haven't used, because I was hoping to use them when we adopted to go abroad to pick up our baby. (pause) And so I thought to myself, you know, "Well, American Airlines may be going under, if I want to do something to go to Asia, maybe I should look into it." The rules are to plan a trip, you try to do something basically when you take a significant time off, and go visit people I know there, and this and that. I didn't do a whole lot of research on that, but I did a little bit of that. I got turtle filters—I've been looking through my head of what kind of things we need around the house. These are not like normal stuff, they're pretty normal stuff. It's not that I'm really anxious stuff. Then about two or three AM, then the terror happens, of the "Oh, my God, if I don't get to sleep, then I am going to—if I don't get to sleep right now, then I am in severe danger of not waking up for obligations." And which, of course, keeps you from being able to go to sleep. So that's always exciting. [00:11:40]
There's just (pause) I have been (pause) beating myself up, because I feel like all the things that I do on a regular basis, everybody else does too for the most part, and it doesn't take them that much time or it's not that much of a focus, but they have to think about, "Okay, so now it's time to do this." You know? (pause) But for me, it's kind of frustrating. It's like, I have to get a lot of maintenance done. I need to do this, I need to do that. At least to me, it's a little exhausting. When I can't sleep, I always have to do at least two or three checks of various finance-related things I have to do. And of course, go and look and see how my stock is doing, and how my 401K is doing. (pause) Amongst other things. It's partly financial stuff. 
THERAPIST: Here's a hypothesis—should be a hypothesis. (pause) So I wonder if you're actually thinking about fairly risky stuff, and then it's making you anxious that there's going to be trouble. So the risky stuff is date night with Dave, patio furniture, and a big trip.
CLIENT: (chuckles) Believe it or not, the big trip is less risky than the patio furniture. 
THERAPIST: Sure. (pause)
CLIENT: Which sounds weird, planning on one thing, flying across Asia and/or possibly going around the world, sounds less risky?
THERAPIST: Yeah.
CLIENT: It's because it's part of how I grew up, so I kind of have a natural comfort doing that kind of thing?
THERAPIST: Well, and it also -
CLIENT: I would get more stressed out going up to the beach for two days than I would going, planning a trip around the world. Why? I'm not very good at doing the kind of things I need to expect for that kind of travel. Yeah. 
THERAPIST: Yeah, I mean, I think, talking to Dave and sort of (pause) having your date night scheduled, I imagine there's a lot that goes along with that. You're worried about how it's going to go, what it will be like, what will happen physically. You know, whether (pause) how he's acting, if he'll get in the way or whether he'll just be with you but mentally not with you...
CLIENT: Don't forget the fact that I need to have my whole house clean so that when I get home, I don't immediately start into the mode of loading up the dishwasher.
THERAPIST: Oh, okay.
CLIENT: I'm like one of those people. So I have to have the house clean, I also have to have the house clean before I go on vacation too. I'm not talking like spic and span, but I just need to make sure there isn't anything distracting in terms of clutter, to make sure that all I do is all around me I don't start jumping up and trying to get that stuff taken care of. But yeah, it's risky. It's really risky. I've been married 14 years to this guy.
THERAPIST: It isn't really risky, there's just a lot that's happened that's really hurt you, and—date night is fraud! When was the last time you guys had one? (pause) [00:15:42]
CLIENT: I think maybe 2009? We used to do it a lot with other couples.
THERAPIST: It might be a little silly, but I think that the date night, the patio furniture, and the trip to Asia are all about putting yourself out there.
CLIENT: Yeah. No, I know. I mean, we were talking about the fact that I feel like I'm making myself vulnerable a lot, I really am. I'm putting myself out there. And I feel less and less like I want to do so, and I really want to shut down and take less risks. Because not only is it not paying off, but it's making me feel like that's a part of who I am. I'm trying to be genuine, I'm trying to be who I am. I'm really starting to dislike myself because of that. 
THERAPIST: Ouch.
CLIENT: Yeah. It's (pause) hard. It's really hard. (pause) 
And (pause) I don't know. There's actually a lot more related to that as well. There's also the high stakes of picking a movie that I would want to see for a date as opposed to casually wanted to go see. There's a lot of other just... yeah. (pause)
THERAPIST: Well, (pause) Sorry, go ahead.
CLIENT: I'm just (pause) I guess I've just been kind of (pause) I don't know, it feels silly, I know. And I'm trying really hard, we talked about not making this anything super special so it's organic right now, it's easier to do something, that kind of thing. But (pause) it's really hard for me. Because I by default think about my house pretty much in what you may think or want in most things. He by default only usually thinks about it when he's concerned about pissing me off, you know? (pause) And it just (pause) it didn't used to be like that. It's gotten more complicated now, because of finances and slash, me trying to eat things that I really shouldn't anymore, which makes things a lot more complicated. Like for example, it used to be—even when we were broke, it's like, "Well, I brought you home a candy bar that I know you really like," or something like that. It used to be a lot more—anything that wasn't really specifically difficult used to be a lot more special. And now I don't really feel like that much at all. (pause) I sort of default to wanting to do things for him and that's not always the other way around. I'm not saying it has to be that way, but every once in a while it's kind of nice, you know? (pause)
But I haven't exactly been the most receptive to some of the things he's tried in the past, so—mostly due to finances. Like if he comes home with flowers, I don't make him take them back but I usually—first thing I get a stab in my stomach thinking, "Oh, my God, how are we going to afford this?" Or food, I'm like, "Well, I really feel that we really shouldn't be eating this, you know?" Sometimes it's really just me being pickier now than I used to be. I kind of haven't wanted to tell him most of that because I feel like I don't want to discourage it. But obviously he's picking up on it somehow. (pause) So I just—I don't want to be high maintenance, and I don't want to be a pain. You know? (pause) [00:22:53]
So (pause) I am going to do something for him, which I haven't done in a long, long time. I haven't really built anything for him in a long, long time, which is something that's kind of me. So I'm sort of in the process of crafting this—I can't even believe I'm actually admitting to this. Okay, so in this store, there's an RFD transmitter along with a whole bunch of wire in it. If you put it into pure acetone for a few days, you can pull apart the wire and the transmitter, and you can put it into something else. So I've been sort of, just for fun, trying to figure out what I want to do for that. And so I've been thinking about—because of different things, I don't even know if it will go down really well in this town, but I know people who've done it with cards and leftover passes and stuff, and just made them into things that you could carry around and use for that, but it makes it different and special. And like I said, I really do like making things. So it'll be kind of nice to do something like that. (pause) Kind of a weird thing, but you know. See, usually people cast it—some people have done it in rings, sometimes people have made it in plates that you can put in the back of a cell phone so you just tap your cell phone, that kind of thing. 
THERAPIST: I see. 
CLIENT: You sort of have to figure out what you want to do first, because then you have to design the engine around what you want to do that with. So the Cart gets a big mucked and coiled, and then the whole thing loops—a bunch of—yeah. I like doing that kind of stuff. It's just, to me, it's a gesture of really showing I care. 
THERAPIST: Yeah. (pause) It's quarter of.
CLIENT: Yeah, I've got to run because I've got to go take care of something, but... unfortunately, I've got to go to another doctor's appointment. 
THERAPIST: Okay.
CLIENT: Yeah. It's not a big deal, I'm just getting the whole appointment of "If you don't do this, then you can't see me until November" thing.
THERAPIST: I see. Sure. 
CLIENT: So I gotta run. Thank you.
THERAPIST: I'll see you Tuesday.
CLIENT: You'll know before Tuesday if it's okay.
THERAPIST: Okay, take care. 
CLIENT: Okay. 
END TRANSCRIPT
