TRANSCRIPT OF AUDIO FILE:
______________________________________________________________________________
BEGIN TRANSCRIPT:
THERAPIST: Come in.
CLIENT: Hello.
THERAPIST: Hi, how are you?
CLIENT: Good, how are you.
THERAPIST: Good, how's it going?
CLIENT: Good.
THERAPIST: For an early morning. Do you have class on Wednesdays?
CLIENT: No I don't actually.
THERAPIST: Oh, so it's just a day that you come in for fun?
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: It's a shame it wouldn't work out, you know, on a day that, you know…
CLIENT: Yeah, but its fine.
THERAPIST: So how did the week go?
CLIENT: Good, I didn't really do much. Like I didn't end up going out but…
THERAPIST: Why, what happened?
CLIENT: Well my friend - I don't know. My roommate had a whole drama issue with work and she hates her job now.
So I was supposed to meet her and go out from there and we didn't. So I just kind of felt…
THERAPIST: Because?
CLIENT: She ended up coming home early from work and didn't want to go out and was all upset.
THERAPIST: Okay. So you were kind of comforting her and being…
CLIENT: Yes, because we were going to go out together and then go from there and see what happened but…
THERAPIST: Okay, so plans kind of changed. And that was Saturday night?
CLIENT: Yes, Saturday.
THERAPIST: And did you go out at all again over the week?
CLIENT: No, I don't really I guess go out during the week as much.
THERAPIST: Because you had spoken about maybe going out, because usually your roommate is not always available.
You had kind of spoken about going out with a different friend.
CLIENT: Yeah, she actually was - she's from Joliet too. We all kind of went to high school so she was - she goes home often on the weekends. I thought she would be here.
THERAPIST: Okay, so things kind of were a little out of your control.
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: Okay. How does it go for you meeting people in - through class?
CLIENT: I don't really know anyone except for like my one friend in school.
THERAPIST: Who's your one friend in school?
CLIENT: It's actually my roommate's boyfriend.
THERAPIST: Okay. And you knew him through your roommate?
CLIENT: I met him through her and then we became close friends and then we ended up having like classes together.
THERAPIST: Okay, so you're good friends with him?
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: Is that hard for your roommate or no? [0:01:58.0]
CLIENT: No, not at all actually. And there's a few other guys at school that I'm friends with because we all are kind of close friends like me, her, and then him and like four other guys.
But I try not to see them when I go to school because if I see them they're often - someone's not going to class at this time or someone - they're always like come on, just hang out.
So I just - I'm like I'm not seeing you guys this semester.
THERAPIST: But they are good people to hang out with?
CLIENT: They are. They're just…
THERAPIST: They're not the best students?
CLIENT: Yeah. Well I guess now they are but they weren't. And they would always go oh come on, skip class.
So I just - at school I don't see them.
THERAPIST: Is there any way that maybe you could go to class and then see them afterwards, like that would be a great time to like get in some going out time and socialization.
CLIENT: I guess, yeah. I don't really know their schedules I guess at school.
THERAPIST: But if - would you say they're friends of yours?
CLIENT: Yeah - yeah but I don't normally hang with them I guess unless it's most of us together
THERAPIST: So if you were to say like oh, do you want to come meet me for coffee after class, would that be weird?
CLIENT: I guess not. The only one I've really hung out though like is my roommate's boyfriend. But it's not weird or anything like that.
THERAPIST: Okay. Is there any other one that you would think you would want to be friends with?
Do they all have girlfriends, are they all single?
CLIENT: Right now I think they're all single. But I don't know, we're not like that close but it wouldn't be weird if I did I guess.
THERAPIST: Because I'm just trying to find some time - because sometimes - like and this weekend you were willing to go out, it sounded like - but other people were kind of not as willing.
So maybe you need to take the ball into your court and kind of start doing more than just Saturday night socialization.
CLIENT: I guess yeah, because I don't really do much during the week.
THERAPIST: And you have time right, because you have time for coffee, you have time for a drink after class. How late are your classes? [0:03:59.2]
CLIENT: Well I have classes until five but I only have class pretty much on Tuesday and Friday. Thursday is short.
THERAPIST: So Tuesday and Friday or like - that's like Happy Hour.
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: Is that any way that you could go out and meet someone for a drink or, I mean if you're not comfortable going out with one you could I mean message a couple of them and be like hey, you want to go out for a drink on Friday at this time or Thursday or whatever?
CLIENT: I guess yes. That girl that was in Joliet this weekend, she is always going out during the week because she's here mostly during the week. So I guess I could always…
THERAPIST: And you could do that too, right.
CLIENT: …call her too.
THERAPIST: Because you have time to get your work done.
CLIENT: Yeah, I always - she'll ask me most of the time if I want to and then I'll normally just be like no, like during the week. I don't know, but it's not like I'm doing anything.
THERAPIST: Yeah. Are you still thinking about that job stuff?
CLIENT: Yeah, only because I haven't really made - I haven't really followed up. So I was thinking today maybe just restarting the whole process.
THERAPIST: I think that would be a good idea. [0:05:01.9]
CLIENT: Like go out, apply again, and then - well I know a few places that said they were hiring the end of this month.
THERAPIST: That's a great time to go back and you can go back in person or you could call.
I mean I think going in person always helps. You know, I was just checking in, following up on - you know, I applied here.
Are you still interested in doing any of the restaurant stuff because I think your grandfather had passed away and that was the week that we were going to talk about that stuff.
CLIENT: I actually haven't - I don't know, I still haven't gone to restaurants. But it's more just - I don't - not that I'm like trying to chose a specific restaurant but I just don't know where to start I guess.
THERAPIST: Okay.
CLIENT: Like who - what restaurants would be hiring, especially. I have some experience in hostessing but really not that much.
THERAPIST: But that's okay. I mean there's a lot of small restaurants out by you, right?
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: have you thought about just going in and asking. There's no harm. Are you looking for servers or hostess or anything, you know, I'm looking for a job.
CLIENT: I didn't really think to I guess. I was more thinking like of bigger restaurants. But I'd rather go into a smaller one to be honest and something closer.
THERAPIST: Especially to be close to your home. Like you can do it whenever you want, you won't be too late getting home, and also it's good practice for if you want to then go into a bigger one.
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: So do you think that's something you can do this week?
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: Well are you going to do it?
CLIENT: Yeah, because it's - I mean it's right (inaudible at 0:06:28.4).
There's a million restaurants on (inaudible at 0:06:32.0 and I live right there.
THERAPIST: Okay, so that could be something good, right? Now what we didn't talk about is did you manage to do any of the shame attacks?
CLIENT: Oh, I didn't do that go into a store. I thought about that. I really - not that I avoid it, I just I guess…
THERAPIST: Avoided it?
CLIENT: Avoided?
THERAPIST: Not that you avoided it but you just avoided it?
CLIENT: No. I guess I did. I just kind of didn't make time. So I guess that's avoiding in a sense. [0:07:03.7]
THERAPIST: Did you find that what we did last week was helpful?
CLIENT: Yeah, it made me used to it I guess. Like not as fearful like just that I know it's like okay.
THERAPIST: Can you see that that could happen with going out and things like that?
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: Like the more you do it the more you're used to it.
CLIENT: Yeah. That's why like I tried but then it's so easy for me to just not go out.
THERAPIST: Because I think you need to take the reins in some of the situations and make the plans yourself.
So I think there's two goals - I like your - are those like leg warmers?
CLIENT: Yeah, I have them under here because I was cold.
THERAPIST: Like two things that you could maybe work on this week would be to - well the job stuff I guess that goes on your own. Because I think like you have drive hopefully to get that done?
CLIENT: Yeah, I think I've gotten to the point where applying is now okay, because I've been doing it. But I'm still nervous about actually getting it.
THERAPIST: You can still make that homework. And the second thing, I mean maybe we can take a pause (inaudible at 0:08:07.5).
We can talk about the reasons that you didn't do it and the reason that you're still avoiding it. But I think the goal for this week is to make some kind of social plan yourself. Arrange it yourself, invite somebody and stick to it, you know.
CLIENT: I (inaudible at 0:08:20.6) just to make my own plans kind of.
THERAPIST: I think it would be especially beneficial if it was with someone kind of a little more new, a little - that you might be a little uncomfortable with because it's good practice.
CLIENT: Okay. I'm trying to think of, you know.
THERAPIST: Like the guys that could be - you know, it's easier at school. Do you know bars that you like around there?
CLIENT: They do. I know they do. Like they used to go out like after class some days.
THERAPIST: Okay. I mean there's a lot around here there's a lot of bars like the Irish pubs and stuff.
So is that something that you can do?
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: Is it something that you will do? [0:09:01.0]
CLIENT: Yes. I'm trying to think what I have between now and next week. I guess yeah, it would be fine.
THERAPIST: And today is Wednesday. Friday is always good. You have class on Fridays?
CLIENT: Yeah, but I wouldn't mind going out after - since I have nothing on Saturday.
THERAPIST: No but that's what I mean - so Friday night right after class and you don't even have to make it a late night.
It could just be three drinks.
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: Going out for you doesn't have to be like staying out until three, you know. Just getting out and doing it more often.
It doesn't have to be once a week privilege to hang out with people, right?
CLIENT: Yeah, I feel like that's kind of - if it's once a week it's kind of like a once a week.
THERAPIST: Yeah I mean it's good - meeting someone for coffee, you can do that in-between class, you know.
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: What do you do for lunch when you're at class?
CLIENT: I read.
THERAPIST: But you could take that opportunity to meet up with someone. I don't know, do you ever have anyone else in the class that like seems nice or no?
CLIENT: Yeah, I guess. I feel like everyone when I transferred, everyone already had their groups kind of thing
But there are nice people I talk - I do talk to people here and there.
THERAPIST: Do you ever make study groups or anything like that? Like do teachers ever make groups.
I don't know, do you have group projects?
CLIENT: I actually - my Woman's Psych course I have groups because at the end we do like a presentation together. But as of now she doesn't want us to meet because she wants us to like do our research on our own and then meet in like a few weeks.
THERAPIST: So that could be an opportunity to meet. Do you know who's in your group?
CLIENT: Yeah, I know.
THERAPIST: Do they seem like normal, nice?
CLIENT: Yeah, actually I like my group. Sometimes like, you know, it's harder but everyone is pretty nice and talkative.
THERAPIST: Do they seem like something that maybe you be friends with?
CLIENT: I guess, yeah.
THERAPIST: I think - because I think it's important to have more than just your roommate and her friends you know, and then have one friend (inaudible at 0:10:52.5) island thing, because sometimes they fall through.
CLIENT: Yeah, often. That's why I feel like I'm not used to really going out with different people and people that I'm not as comfortable with. [0:11:02.6]
THERAPIST: Well that could be a good opportunity, you know. In a few weeks you can set yourself up, you know. You meet and then you say oh, you want to go get dinner afterwards if you find they're nice.
Or do you want to go get a drink?
CLIENT: There is I think two girls and two boys.
THERAPIST: So it could be fun. And if you initiate it you know, like they'll think - I think the key is - I don't know if you've ever heard this before but sometimes I've read in research about people with social anxiety that you think you're coming off really shy, right.
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: Sometimes people take the shyness as disinterest.
CLIENT: I got that a lot in high school.
THERAPIST: Yeah. So did everyone thing you were like a bitch or…
CLIENT: Yeah, and I'd be like no, I really just don't talk.
THERAPIST: Yeah. So I think making more of an effort. You worry so much about what you're going to say is going to sound stupid but I think not saying anything sometimes can be more dysfunctional than saying something stupid.
CLIENT: I guess, yeah. I guess I don't really think of it - ever thought of it that way.
THERAPIST: You know you worry so much about saying the wrong thing that not saying anything is also like…
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: I mean I'm not trying to make you freak out either way.
CLIENT: Oh, no.
THERAPIST: But because you're aware of that right, that people could perceive that as disinterest.
I don't know if you've practices this but some ideas for - I mean especially in a bar with new people you feel like you're going to say something stupid and you don't want to talk is that right?
CLIENT: Yeah, along those lines. Just I don't know what to say or whatever.
THERAPIST: Do you try asking people questions about themselves?
CLIENT: I feel like I don't even know what to ask, like what to begin with. I don't know.
THERAPIST: You know how to have a conversation.
CLIENT: I know, but I feel like I get - I don't know. I don't know what - I feel like I'm always like, well what's the right thing to ask. [0:12:58.4]
THERAPIST: Well here's the truth. Most people like talking about themselves. Maybe not you, you might be an exception, right.
Or with strangers you don't like to talk about - but with your parents and your friends you like to talk about yourself.
Because everyone likes to talk about themselves, right?
CLIENT: Yeah, I get what you're saying.
THERAPIST: If you ask anybody anything they'll generally probably talk about it and you'll seem really interested in them and that you care.
CLIENT: I know, it's scary.
THERAPIST: So why don't you practice right now, okay. We don't really know that much about each other outside of therapy.
So, okay hi Teresa, how are you?
CLIENT: I'm good, how are you?
THERAPIST: I'm good. I had like a really busy weekend. Yeah, you?
CLIENT: I didn't do much. What did you do over the weekend?
THERAPIST: Oh, I got a cat yesterday actually. I guess it wasn't the weekend.
CLIENT: Oh, wow.
THERAPIST: Yeah, I got a cat so I'm really excited and he's really cute and he's ten months old. And yeah, he's really sweet.
CLIENT: What you name him?
THERAPIST: I named him Gatsby.
CLIENT: Oh, where'd you get that from?
THERAPIST: Like - because it sounds like a cat - Catsby.
CLIENT: That's cute, I've never heard that explanation before.
THERAPIST: But he's really friendly and like, you know, like I was - my friend adopted a cat a while ago it was really scared and it would never come out for the first five days.
And this cats like all over my apartment already. He's cuddling, he was sleeping in the bed last night. He's really cute.
CLIENT: Adorable. See, I don't know what to say.
THERAPIST: So what can you say?
CLIENT: I guess I could - I don't know.
THERAPIST: But that went on for a while, right?
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: Because I wanted to talk about it my new cat.
CLIENT: I guess it would have I just lead you into questions.
THERAPIST: Yeah. And I mean you can keep that going, you could say, you know, what are you doing right now or like do you have any plans for the weekend.
CLIENT: I don't know why I get so nervous about just even just saying what's your cat's name or something.
Like I just get so nervous to say anything in that moment.
THERAPIST: I don't think people - remember what we were saying when - I mean we proved it when we went to the store, that people aren't so wrapped in everything you say, right?
CLIENT: Yeah, they're more wrapped in their own…
THERAPIST: Their own stuff. I mean I think maybe if you do something really crazy like come in like painted green and asked to buy a bird and, you know, like that might come off weird. [0:15:11.8]
But most of the time people are pretty forgiving of the things you say, and especially if - maybe when you're younger people are a little more judging.
CLIENT: Yeah, I guess. Well not as much - I guess when I - in high school.
THERAPIST: Yeah, not like elementary school, everybody runs their children.
CLIENT: Yeah, elementary school is fine.
THERAPIST: But people don't really, you know, care that much anymore. And you know you can - I think when you go out with a group it's easy to - you don't have to have to talk as much.
But, you know, just ask questions here and there and most people will quit talking and they'll ask you questions back. Do you have a hard time talking about yourself?
CLIENT: Not if someone's asking me, I guess I can talk about it. Like it will be fine if they're like starting the conversation I still am uncomfortable just because I still am thinking, oh no, what if I'm saying like, I don't know what to say.
But obviously they're asking me questions that I can answer - I don't know.
THERAPIST: And I mean you always have questions like oh, where did you go to school - under grad. There's always discussions like that.
What do you do? Do you have a job or…
CLIENT: That always makes me nervous. I hate…
THERAPIST: Because then you have to talk about that you don't have a job.
CLIENT: Yeah. Because I feel like I know how my family and friends think like I should, you know.
THERAPIST: What if you said when you ask - I mean you don't have to ask that question. But if they start talking about a job and they say, do you have a job, what could be a good response?
It could be, no, but I really want one if you know of any leads or anything that would be great.
CLIENT: I feel like I'd have like my - a friend around who would be like right, she hasn't had a job for whatever. Like I don't know, I always just - that's just very embarrassing.
THERAPIST: Be like yeah, I know, I get nervous about the interview process. But other than that I'd really like to have one.
And your friends - these friends of yours, you know, we've talked about approaching them before and asking them not to say stuff about it. [0:16:58.1]
You can avoid it or you can just not - I mean with the new group of friends they don't know anything about this.
CLIENT: That's true. I guess they wouldn't even have any idea.
THERAPIST: And making friends can lead you to great things sometimes, you know. Oh, there's an opening up in that area or, you know.
Or I know a girl that's quitting or I work at a restaurant and I know the hostess and she wants more time off she just had a baby, you know.
CLIENT: Yeah, I guess.
THERAPIST: you never know what will come up from conversation. And in a bar when you're talking to guys - because that was going to be your assignment to talk to three guys at a bar, right.
I mean there's like a thousand questions you can ask him. What do you do for a living? I would do like the job - how do you feel about that job?
CLIENT: I guess, yeah. I don't really think of asking more about - like I don't know, I always concentrate on the next question and that's like - I don't know.
THERAPIST: You can ask a thousand questions about…
CLIENT: One topic.
THERAPIST: …like where did you get your cat, you know. Like were there other ones that were cute there.
I think the more you think about it, you know, you psych yourself up from enjoying the conversation.
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: Were you nervous with that conversation?
CLIENT: Actually - yeah, not in the same - not that I felt anxiety but I was still like oh no, what am I going to say.
But I don't know why - I guess because I'm also not used to going out and being the one to like to have conversations.
Like when I go out with my friends if it's like three of us and two of them are off, I'm very uncomfortable being left by myself because I don't know what to do.
And I understand that's an uncomfortable situation.
THERAPIST: Yeah, I think most people might be uncomfortable about it.
CLIENT: But like even - I don't know, I just kind of sit there. Like I'll go on my phone and just like kind of like I want to leave or something.
THERAPIST: Well what's the worst - in the worst case scenario you start a conversation with someone and it sucks, right.
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: What can you do?
CLIENT: I guess just walk away, right. (inaudible at 0:19:03.0)
THERAPIST: Like, I've got to go to the bathroom, right? Say, you know, actually I have a boyfriend or something, right?
CLIENT: Yeah. I feel like my friends with boyfriends are so much more outgoing because they know that they could just feel like I have a boyfriend and…
THERAPIST: Well you could say that too.
CLIENT: Yeah, and I don't know. I feel like they're always to go find…
THERAPIST: Well you don't have one and would it be nice to start going on dates and…
CLIENT: Yeah, well it would be but I'm still nervous to like even get to that.
THERAPIST: So let's start, you know, getting to - are there any of those guys that you're interested that you hang out with? Are any of them cute? [0:19:38.2]
CLIENT: Not really - well, I don't know. I'm not really interested. But one of them, me and him are both - we have the same personality.
And he really I guess likes and told me kind of over the summer at one point. But nothing really happened because we were both - like we don't really talk that much.
And he's a really nice kid and I enjoy hanging out with him but I always tell my roommate it's hard because we really don't talk until we're drunk or something.
Because we're both very…
THERAPIST: Shy?
CLIENT: …shy and just…
THERAPIST: Well what if you took an initiative. Maybe he's the perfect person to ask because it sounds like he would jump for an opportunity go out with a drink for you.
CLIENT: Like he'll text me and what not ever so often and we'll talk like online. But it's just never like when we're out sober.
THERAPIST: Well what's - why don't you go out. I mean if you go out for a drink you're not going to be dunk for most of the time.
CLIENT: No yeah - he wants me to come out Friday for the Cubs game but I'm like, okay.
THERAPIST: But what?
CLIENT: I don't know. Because my roommate is going to be at work and then I don't know if it's just - I don't know if her - like if her boyfriend was going I'd probably feel fine because I don't know…
THERAPIST: So what if it's just you and him, what's going to happen?
CLIENT: I don't know. I just…
THERAPIST: He already likes you, right?
CLIENT: But it's just - I just want to be comfortable. It's not even - like it's not that I want him to like me or anything, I just want to have fun with him like whatever, like hang out.
Because he's my friend too.
THERAPIST: Okay, can you do that?
CLIENT: I don't know why the fact that he kind of likes me gets me nervous.
THERAPIST: I think even if he didn't like you you'd probably be nervous.
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: Just going out with him.
CLIENT: I think I'm probably not nervous going out with my roommate's boyfriend because it is my roommate's boyfriend I feel like he's my brother.
THERAPIST: Okay. Well what if you just go out…
CLIENT: But anyone else.
THERAPIST: I mean I think you go on with these demands like I must say everything perfect, I must be comfortable (inaudible at 0:21:27.4), this must be a comfortable social interaction, right?
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: Remember we talked about when you say things as a demand it makes it so much more stressful.
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: I would feel like that too if I was like, this has to go perfect. If it doesn't go perfect it's awful and it would be the end of the world and I can never hang out with him again and it would be so awkward and this is all the friends I have at school.
Is that kind of the thought?
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: Okay. So what if (inaudible at 0:21:52.0)? It would be nice if it goes well, if it doesn't it's not the end of the world.
At least I got a free ticket to the Cubs game or maybe not.
CLIENT: Or just like at a bar he wants to hang out.
THERAPIST: Oh, okay.
CLIENT: So just because - we were supposed to actually watch it with a bunch of friends this past weekend but then…
THERAPIST: And you like the Cubs, right?
CLIENT: yeah.
THERAPIST: So you could spend most of the time watching the game.
CLIENT: That's what I was thinking. But then I was like, I don't want it to be awkward. Because it's also like he's probably besides my roommate and her boyfriend, the third person that I see most often.
Because he's my roommate's boyfriend best friend.
THERAPIST: What's his name?
CLIENT: Brendan. I just don't want it to be like awkward or anything.
THERAPIST: Why would - but every first date is a little bit awkward.
CLIENT: And I guess it wouldn't even be like...
THERAPIST: It wouldn't be a date - maybe in his eyes it would be. But it could be fun.
CLIENT: See that's what I want. I want it to be fun but I don't know.
THERAPIST: So how would - but are you going to have any fun if you don't go?
CLIENT: No, not really.
THERAPIST: And if it's not fun can you leave?
CLIENT: Yeah, but I would feel…
THERAPIST: Could you say like oh, I'm not feeling well, I'm going to go home, sorry. I think I'm going to puke. [0:23:03.8]
CLIENT: See but that - just having to even say that I feel like he'd feel like okay, it's an anxiety.
Or like anyone - anyone close to me…
THERAPIST: So could you say something..
CLIENT: ...anyone who knows me…
THERAPIST: …could you do like, my mom - like I have a family issue, I have to go home, I'm really sorry.
CLIENT: I guess.
THERAPIST: You could make up a thousand excuses, right?
CLIENT: Yeah. I can make something up if worse comes to worse.
THERAPIST: And it probably won't happen. You know this guy well. It will probably be fine. You'll watch the game. It's two hours.
What do you think about texting him right now and saying do you still want to go watch the game on Friday?
CLIENT: I don't know.
THERAPIST: That's your Friday plan. You already…
CLIENT: I don't know.
THERAPIST: I know.
CLIENT: I don't really ever text him.
THERAPIST: He texts you.
CLIENT: Yeah, like sometimes. I don't know.
THERAPIST: Can you stand being comfortable?
CLIENT: I can.
THERAPIST: How are you ever going to be - like you say that this is dysfunctional, this anxiety. You know it stops you from doing all these things, right.
CLIENT: yeah.
THERAPIST: How is not going out with him helping your goals?
CLIENT: It's not but I feel like - I don't know. I feel like if I text him now that would be fine because I always do that and I'll be like yeah, we can hang out.
And then it comes to that day and then I'm like…
THERAPIST: Okay, well e can work on that.
CLIENT: …I retreat kind of like.
THERAPIST: Well we can work on the thoughts that will prevent you hopefully from retreating.
But why don't you text him now? I can see you're uncomfortable.
CLIENT: Yeah, I don't think I want to now. [0:24:34.4]
THERAPIST: Why?
CLIENT: Because, I don't know. I don't know, it's early.
THERAPIST: It's 11:15.
CLIENT: Yeah, I guess it's not too early but…
THERAPIST: You're making a lot of excuses.
CLIENT: I know but…
THERAPIST: So you don't want be uncomfortable?
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: Can you stand being uncomfortable?
CLIENT: I can.
THERAPIST: You know you can.
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: But you don't believe you can.
CLIENT: I do in certain situations. Like, I don't know. In person though, I'm very nervous. Like texting him…
THERAPIST: so you can still back out, right? You're still not committed.
CLIENT: Like that I don't want - I don't know. Like I don't want to text him because then if I do back out, like I'd rather just leave things as is and see what happens.
THERAPIST: But this is going to be more likely make sure that you'll actually do it, right?
CLIENT: But that's the thing I don't think it - I don't know.
THERAPIST: I think if you didn't think it will, you wouldn't…
CLIENT: Make me feel…
THERAPIST: No, if you didn't think it was you would be texting him right now and you'd be like fine whatever, I can always back out.
It would make you one step closer to being - to going.
CLIENT: I don't know if I want to text him though. Like I don't know because I think I still have to think about that.
THERAPIST: And then I can't make you do anything you don't want to do Catherine. But I am here trying to push you towards your goals.
And I think - and how long have you been here now, right? Two years?
CLIENT: No.
THERAPIST: A year and a half.
CLIENT: Like a year.
THERAPIST: A year, okay. I want to see you reach your goals and I feel like we've kind of gotten to a level where it's kind of getting stagnant, you know. [0:26:01.6]
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: Are we? Are we still making good progress?
CLIENT: I feel like - I don't want to say it. But when I started seeing you like it was a different kind of progress, better. Like I've been going out more and doing things on my own than I was.
THERAPIST: Now or before?
CLIENT: Now.
THERAPIST: Okay, so does this…
(CROSSTALK)
CLIENT: So I feel like before not as much, but now I've started to as well.
THERAPIST: Okay. Do you feel like I'm pushing you too hard?
CLIENT: No, it's good for me because if you don't then I probably wouldn't.
THERAPIST: and the point of pushing you is not to make you - well it is to make you uncomfortable. But it's to show you that it's not as bad as you think it's going to be…
CLIENT: Yeah, I understand.
THERAPIST: …like going out yesterday. And if your goals are really to become better, is one uncomfortable day worth achieving that goal?
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: That's what you have to think about, okay. I think it would be good if you could text him.
You make a little commitment and then you can make a bigger commitment when you actually show.
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: Right? What would be the down - like what are the negatives about the situation?
CLIENT: I'm - I just don't want to then cancel. Like I don't want to reassure him and then cancel or something.
THERAPIST: Okay, well so you don't have to cancel, right?
CLIENT: But I never know.
THERAPIST: Well you can make your decision.
CLIENT: I don't have to.
THERAPIST: If it wasn't very important thing you would go, right?
CLIENT: Yeah, if it was - I mean it's something else, I don't know. But…
THERAPIST: So this texting him…
CLIENT: There's nothing that makes me feel like it is important. But if I text him I'll feel bad. Like saying yes I'm coming and then three days later…
THERAPIST: I just think this would be such a huge step for you. Remember that feeling of like relief after doing everything knowing that you could do it. It wasn't so bad.
CLIENT: yeah.
THERAPIST: Think about the feeling of relief that you could have after - how about after this?
Imagine that feeling going home. And you might even make a connection with somebody, right? [0:28:04.1]
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: There're a lot of benefits that you get out of doing it. And the negative is being uncomfortable or letting him down.
CLIENT: I just - I don't know why. I know either way Friday I'm going to be like somewhat nervous.
THERAPIST: That's okay, right.
CLIENT: It is. But for me I feel like I take it to another level and I feel nervous.
THERAPIST: So you feel you're going to get sick?
CLIENT: Yeah like if that's…
THERAPIST: Okay. Well I mean, are you still - do you still have your relaxation tapes that you had?
CLIENT: I didn't have tapes buy I just had - Caitlin had told me a few ways.
THERAPIST: They do have a tape downstairs if that's something that you would like. They do have a CD that you can listen to.
CLIENT: I know there's something on the Internet. I'm trying to think if I still have it saved.
Maria told me some - I wrote down something and I found it but…
THERAPIST: I just want to talk about like is being uncomfortable awful?
CLIENT: No.
THERAPIST: Is it the end of the world?
CLIENT: No.
THERAPIST: Are there worse things that could happen to you?
CLIENT: Yes.
THERAPIST: Right? But you tell yourself it's awful. That it would be awful - I can't stand it. It would be so uncomfortable. It would ruin everything. I could be sick.
CLIENT: I just like remember like when I am sick I feel - like I feel - like my stomach feels awful.
THERAPIST: Okay. So you do feel…
CLIENT: So I think of that.
THERAPIST: You feel bad. But probably you could - you know you physically could feel worse, right?
CLIENT: Yeah, yeah.
THERAPIST: Of (inaudible at 0:29:30.6) obviously you could feel that.
Is there any way that we can use what's going on with your stomach - like remember what we were talking about last time. Like as a sign that you're starting to get nervous and you need to say okay, I'm human, my body is starting to do things.
I'm going to take that as a sign to relax instead of a sign to get more nervous.
CLIENT: Yeah, I mean like I think that would be the best thing. I just - I don't always do that.
I feel like it's more of a sign to hype up and get more nervous. [0:30:00.3]
THERAPIST: But that doesn't help, right?
CLIENT: Yeah. Like I don't do it on purpose but I feel like that's what it kind of does.
THERAPIST: So what, can you do that, you know - I mean maybe we - what we could do together and we start doing first thing in the morning is to go out, put you in uncomfortable situations so that you start getting that feeling and then work on bringing it back down.
Would that be something that would be helpful for you?
CLIENT: Yeah, because I just - I feel like I know how to bring it down when I'm sitting here. But when I'm in that situation it just…
THERAPIST: Well how do you bring it down? It's rational thoughts, right.
CLIENT: Yeah, but then I don't really - I don't know. I try to think rational but then I just feel like up but my stomach still…
THERAPIST: and my stomach is a reminder that I'm human and nervous but I can think of other things, right.
CLIENT: Yeah, just relax.
THERAPIST: I understand that you don't want to text him now because then like you don't want to let him down if you're feeling sick the day of. Is that why?
CLIENT: Yeah, because since I don't really know his feelings situation so. Because he pretty much told me in the beginning of the summer that he liked me and what not, but then nothing happens and so…
THERAPIST: What happened - what - how would you feel if all of a sudden he met somebody else and started dating them?
CLIENT: See, that's the thing. I want to hang out with him. I want to like see like what might happen.
THERAPIST: Wouldn't that be worse than feeling uncomfortable for a night?
CLIENT: But I just - I don't - he's very like - he's never really dated a girl kind of thing.
THERAPIST: All right, so you're going to be awkward too. You're going to be one hell of an awkward couple.
CLIENT: Yes.
THERAPIST: Well, let me tell you a story, okay. I knew a guy who when he was in high school, the way that he met his girlfriend was that she threw up on him.
CLIENT: Really, wow.
THERAPIST: She was drunk, leaned over and threw up on his shoes. And he helped take care of her and bring her home and then they started dating. And it's like, wow.
CLIENT: That's sweet in a way.
THERAPIST: So if you were to get sick would he be like, oh my god, she's repulsive?
CLIENT: No.
THERAPIST: He likes you already.
CLIENT: I'm trying to think if he's been around…
THERAPIST: He'd probably feel bad.
CLIENT: … in one of the many times. Yeah, he's been around when I have gotten anxiety and when I have gotten sick before. [0:32:08.1]
THERAPIST: He might understand because he might have similar feelings, right?
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: And he already knows about it.
CLIENT: Yeah, he knows.
THERAPIST: This could be a good person to do, right?
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: So if you said, I do feel sick, I want to go home…
CLIENT: I guess he…
THERAPIST: …he would understand probably more than anyone else.
CLIENT: And I - yeah, I feel like he would be more sympathetic than my roommate or her boyfriend you know even more than he does about it just because he's - I don't know.
They don't understand any kind of shyness or anything. And so, I don't know.
THERAPIST: Okay, so I think this is a good opportunity. How do you feel about texting him now? Still no?
CLIENT: I still don't really want to text him but I don't know. I really want to go Friday but it just…
THERAPIST: If you want to go - this is what I'm saying, if you text him it will make it one step closer do you want to go.
If you want to go, that's your goal, you know.
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: You can go even if you feel a little sick, right? You don't have to let him know, you can do whatever you want.
If you don't want to go and you're feeling too bad, you don't have to go.
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: But it will make one step more that you'll be likely to go and you'll be taking control of your life.
CLIENT: I don't know where I feel like if I like fail people's expectations. It's like the worse thing and I know it's not that bad.
THERAPIST: Couldn't you always reschedule for the next day?
CLIENT: Yeah, but I just…
THERAPIST: Couldn't you say oh, I'm really sorry, I'm not feeling well tonight. Do you want to do something tomorrow? So you could always do that.
CLIENT: I mean I probably will see him Saturday. Like if I go out with friends he's normally there.
Like he's normally.
THERAPIST: So why don't you try Friday?
CLIENT: Yes - yeah, because that would be the only time where (inaudible at 0:33:48.6).
THERAPIST: But I think, you know, you could risk losing over like a thing if you don't put yourself out there as well.
Is that worth feeling uncomfortable?
CLIENT: Yeah, I mean…
THERAPIST: First dates are always - and things like that are uncomfortable for everybody. [0:34:03.3]
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: And they're going to be hard for you but that doesn't mean you can't do it.
CLIENT: I know.
THERAPIST: And the more you do it the easier it will be.
CLIENT: I always just avoid it since pretty much I got to college.
(CROSSTALK)
THERAPIST: How's that going for you romantically?
CLIENT: There is none since I got to college.
THERAPIST: So you've got to bite the bullet.
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: So you threw up on him. It might be true love.
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: Right.
CLIENT: I guess I'll see.
THERAPIST: He sounds like an understanding guy.
CLIENT: He is. Like, I don't know. I still have a crush.
THERAPIST: Think about it more but I think when you go home make a pro and con list again.
CLIENT: All right.
THERAPIST: See like what are all these - I think there's so many pros and the con is I might throw up on him or let him down.
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: Right? Then stop there. Make sure you stop there because it's not like if I let him down then I've ruined our entire relationship.
It's one incident, right?
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: Make sure they just are exactly what they are.
CLIENT: Yeah, I'm trying to think of worse things. It's really not much that could go wrong but…
THERAPIST: I think making a commitment is a good bet for you because then you probably won't want to let him down.
CLIENT: Yeah, because that's what I'm like going back and forth between.
THERAPIST: You know what, you're not letting them down you're letting yourself down.
CLIENT: I feel like they don't know that. But I really - that's…
THERAPIST: But why is not what you think more important?
CLIENT: I don't know.
THERAPIST: Be brave for you. Stand up for Catherine.
CLIENT: Yeah. I never really do. I just worry about other people.
THERAPIST: You can do that. I believe in you, I saw what you did last week.
I thought it was going to be really hard and you like walked up and did it. And even the Versace thing. Did you tell you…
CLIENT: (inaudible at 0:35:45.2) (LAUGHING) done.
THERAPIST: Did you tell your mom about that?
CLIENT: Oh yeah, she laughed. She thought it was funny. She was surprised because she said the same thing. That she feels uncomfortable even going into a store like that.
THERAPIST: Was she impressed with you?
CLIENT: Yeah because we always - she was like I wouldn't even go into Fossil until like this past year or something.
And I was like, well that's just you mom.
THERAPIST: Okay.
CLIENT: But yeah.
THERAPIST: So think about it some more. But I really - I want your homework to be to go out on this thing on Friday.
CLIENT: Okay, I'm going to try.
THERAPIST: Stand up for Catherine, do what's right for you. Don't worry about him.
CLIENT: Yeah, I think I need to forget about what he's thinking for the night.
THERAPIST: It doesn't matter. I'd prefer if he thought nice things about me but if he doesn't, I can stand it. There are a lot of people who like me.
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: Right? And he already likes you.
CLIENT: Yeah. And I see him like every…
THERAPIST: so he's not going to judge you on this one situation here. He knows you for a long time.
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: Okay. Good luck.
CLIENT: Thank you.
THERAPIST: All right, have a good week.
CLIENT: Oh, am I seeing you next Friday?
THERAPIST: Oh is that when we were saying we were making up?
END TRANSCRIPT
