TRANSCRIPT OF AUDIO FILE:
__________________________________________________________________________________
BEGIN TRANSCRIPT:


THERAPIST: Client 0222-115 Interview number 6, February 4th, 1971. 


PATIENT: I fell the other night and I just about cracked my tailbone. So now I can't sit and I can't walk and I just (inaudible @ 0:00:22.0)


THERAPIST: Would you like a (overlapping conversation @ 0:00:23.9)?


PATIENT: No once I'm down its okay, it's just that I keep...


THERAPIST: Yes. It's midway (ph)?


PATIENT: Yes. I keep falling down and forgetting that once I land it's going to be hell.


THERAPIST: I did crack my tailbone once and it was just in the midway (ph). It was like every morning I'd get out of bed and when I was half way out I'd realized I shouldn't be doing it that way because it hurt.


PATIENT: How long did it take to heal?


THERAPIST: Well they couldn't do much, they put a big piece of adhesive tape right over the... where it is and I think it must have hurt for two weeks or so but it wasn't terrible. It was just when I didn't remember to be careful about it.


PATIENT: Yes, I knew a kid that jumped up on a diving board once and then fell back and as he fell he kind of straddled backwards and landed on a pipe that was one of the legs of the board.


THERAPIST: That would have been bad.


PATIENT: [Really totally not] (ph) it was a good two months before he could walk normally again. 

Well I think I'm supposed to start work tomorrow, I'll find out tonight. If I don't tomorrow I do Monday because I am definitely hired (ph). I'm on the payroll now anyway so I don't really give a damn whether I start tomorrow or Monday "(chuckles)".


THERAPIST: [Part of it] (ph) (inaudible @ 0:01:40.8)


PATIENT: And I made kind of an unscheduled trip to Boise last weekend. We were there for about 18 hours I think.


THERAPIST: Oh, that's right, you were going to go and come back on... somebody wanted to come back the same day or...?


PATIENT: Right. And we hadn't planned on coming back with him because Josh had a car down there. We were going to pick up his Cadillac and come back in it but in the process the Cadillac was having the transmission put back in. During the test drive the transmission fell back out again so it was still kaput. So we had to turn right around and come back, it was kind of a bummer and even then we delayed the guy longer than we wanted. But I guess it was a worthwhile adventure, we had a whole lot of things happen (ph) "(chuckles)".


THERAPIST: And you're, if I can [inject some satchel] (ph) stuff, you're still planning on going again...?


PATIENT: No.


THERAPIST: This... next week?


PATIENT: No, I won't be able to now.


THERAPIST: You won't? (0:02:41.0)


PATIENT: Well I'd hoped to start work before this, I had planned on that since around the first of the year but haven't started work until too late. Besides I was thinking that on that weekend I would have a four day weekend but they've split the... the 12th was one birthday, the (inaudible @ 0:03:01.4) Lincoln and Washington and then we had the other one moved to the 15th. So instead they had the celebration days... celebrated Washington's or Lincoln's on the 8th, and then they're celebrating somebody else's on the 15th. They move them on the calendar, make a lot of change up on the calendar, and then make a lot of change to the celebration, so I can't figure out what the hell they're doing. 


But I may be going back, let's see the 23rd; it'll be about the 26th I guess. There's a concert by that group, Black Sabbath and another group, they're in town and I intend to go back for that. And I have $2,000 worth of dope (ph) "(chuckles)" that I have to go down and pick up. Well I'll get to stay there a while that time I think. Now that I'm back on civil service I've got sick leave and all kinds of encouraging things like that to play with. Boy do I ever make use of that stuff "(chuckles)".


I can cross my legs like this but that puts more weight on the ankle, so pretty soon my ankle will get sore. And I'll think, well that's stupid, why don't I just cross them the other way and then I realize, well that puts the weight on this hip, which is the sore one from falling.


THERAPIST: Will it help you to prop up?


PATIENT: No it really isn't... the ankle doesn't seem to hurt so much anymore it just itches something terrible. It's like a really tingly little feeling through the... I hope it's from healing but I don't know "(chuckles)" for all I know it's rotting away. 


Oh, the trouble that I had mentioned I was expecting to run into with Jessica we seem to have gotten a lot of it solved the last time I was down. But it's kind of the affect of, it looks like we did something towards getting the problem taken care of and now we just have to wait and see if we did. At any rate I was pretty happy with the whole trip. 0:05:45.8


I had planned on staying an extra day, Josh and I were going to stay and let (inaudible @ 0:05:51.6) drive on back and then fly back by ourselves Monday night. Sunday afternoon they finally found out that I had taken off Saturday night and been out on my own while they were all running around together. 


They finally caught up with me Sunday afternoon and said that they were in a big hurry and that they were about to leave, which kind of surprised me. So I went with them and I wanted to go say goodbye to Mike when he left, the guy that drove us down, and Josh said that he was coming back with him. 


Well, I hadn't been able to get a hold of Jessica all that day so I kind of told them, "Well, I'll just stay over another day and catch a plane back tomorrow." And then got to thinking about it as the evening progressed and decided that I just couldn't afford to write another check that didn't have anything behind it and then try and cash it before it got to the bank. So I went ahead and came back with them after making arrangements to stay that night. 


So the next day I guess Jessica and five other people were all going around wondering where I was all day long, kind of bumming the scene out. [Either that] (ph) turned out to be more of a joke than a hassle "(chuckles)".


THERAPIST: So it sounds like you think you've got something done between the two of you but it's kind of a time will tell type thing?


PATIENT: Yes, definitely. Emotionally I want to be sure and not have another four month jag between trips down there though that's the biggest hassle. It's just after four months, having spent as little time together as we have it kind of gets to the point where the other person means more of what you imagine them to be than what they are. You kind of lose track of what your relationship actually amounts to.


THERAPIST: That's almost like you don't have any data (overlapping conversation @ 0:07:58.5).


PATIENT: It's true, we just don't have that much of a background to go on and we were only together for a couple of months when I first split Boise and I've been back maybe six times since, for a day or two each.


THERAPIST: Is it at any point a strain or conflict that you are not in Boise? That you choose to be here?


PATIENT: No, not at all. Being in Boise would mean we'd see each other more but it's almost as if things would function easier this way. Because if I were to stay in Boise eventually we'd probably run into trouble with her parents again. It's strange we've just kind of learned to be content with looking ahead for a year so. 0:08:41.5


THERAPIST: She's a really... I mean I feel for you, my husband and I were separated for a year before we were able to get married and I never want to go through that again. I had some friends that sort of made plans, "Well, you know we'll all be here and you'll be here and we'll get together again in a year." And I always feel like, what you're getting into its [damn hard] (ph).


PATIENT: Yes I know. I was even telling her there are times when I just sit and almost literally pull my hair out going, "How the hell did I get into this?" And then of course a few months later when things are a little easier I always look back and say, "Boy I'm glad I made it." But right in the middle of it, it always looks the blackest; I'm just hoping that it doesn't get too light before I get to the other end. Of course I can also fall back on that little "(chuckles)" jag (ph) too but...


THERAPIST: What little jag (ph)?


PATIENT: I can always fall back and just say, "Well, the reason it looks so black is because I'm out of that end of it." 


THERAPIST: Sort of like, I know they'll be a limit to it somewhere I just can't see it right now.


(Inaudible background conversation @ 0:10:08.0)


PATIENT: Oh, I saw a [gold ring] (ph) Mercedes while I was in Boise.


THERAPIST: Oh yes.


PATIENT: It was a beautiful car.


THERAPIST: They're usually very nicely kept up so [was it in] (ph) mint condition?


PATIENT: It was. I didn't recognize it at first; it kind of bummed me out. It kind of put a dent in my ego when I had to drive up beside it and look close to see what it was. 0:11:12.5


I had a very strange experience just before we left. Josh (inaudible @ 0:11:28.3) had just gotten a check, the guy that's living up here from Boise. We didn't have time; we didn't want to stop down the loop to cash it at his bank, Silver City (sp?). So we came back down here and I went to Central Park and he signed it over to me. I asked him to cash it for me and he told me the check was for some 70 dollars or 77 or something like that and he said that I don't have 70 dollars so I don't have enough collateral for them to cash the check for me. And I thought that kind of sounded a little strange so I went over to one of the bank managers and asked him and he said, "Well I'd like to but there's just no way we can do it for you unless you can have enough to balance the check." And I just picked up the check and said, "Let's get the hell out of here." And we walked out.


Well, a little while later another guy and Josh went back in and this guy has an account there and he had enough to balance (ph) the check. So they cashed it for him. And the guy looks at them and he recognized Josh right about then and so he looked at the two of them and he said, "You know I would have cashed it for that other guy but he just didn't have the right attitude from the very start." 


But when they came out Jack Larkin made mention of this, and it doesn't bother me at all, I just said, "Well the guy's a damn liar." I don't know whether he is or not but he struck me that way because I didn't have any wrong... or I didn't have any attitude when I first approached him or anybody else there. 


But what bothered me was that Josh goes, "Yes, wow man that sure was weird." And I asked him whether he thought my attitude, the first time I was in there, was in any way incorrect and he says, "Well, I think there would have been a lot better ways to go around it." This struck me as one of the most asinine, cruel things I've ever seen. Because at the time that we went in and the guy refused to cash the check for me, Josh was the one that first said, "Well that's the dumbest thing I ever heard." And it was at that point I just said, "Well, we're sure not going to get cash now." So I grabbed the check and I said, "Let's get the hell out of here." 


All the way out it was Josh that was telling me how I should close my account there because anybody that treats me like my business is doing... me giving them my business is doing me a favor, etc..., etc... And then he turns right around and tells me I'm really an ass for having acted like I expected them to do something for me.


THERAPIST: Well, it sounds like Josh was the one who was vocal, who was talking, who was making a thing out of it and he's turning on you and saying you're the one.


PATIENT: Yes, it's very much... well it wasn't Josh that made all the noise, I was saying, yes it's a really rotten bank they've done that like three times. 0:14:14.7


But at any rate there was no difference of opinion when we walked out of there the first time. And yet when he walked out of there with Jack Larkin he found it for some reason, I never found the point to it either. He found it convenient to just turn completely around and decide differently.


THERAPIST: If you're hostile and it sort of sounds like it, it felt like a hostile act, did he (overlapping conversation @ 0:14:39.2)?


PATIENT: I don't know that's why it bothered me so terribly much. I didn't say anything about it at the time, I doubt I ever will. But it's really baffled me; I didn't know why he did it and it made no sense whatsoever. But Josh seems to be that kind, he's...


THERAPIST: What kind?


PATIENT: He loves to try and correct people in one way or another. He's a man of many bad habits and no patience with other people.


THERAPIST: Just bad habits.


PATIENT: But I've just never seen anything quite that openly... the principle of it was very open and yet the technique of how he did it was so subtle, it just completely baffled me, I had no idea what was going on.


THERAPIST: You're saying like if he'd been straight about the fact all the way through that it wouldn't be so bad (ph) (inaudible @ 0:15:37.1)?


PATIENT: Right. If he'd said the first time like, "Wow maybe we should have gotten down on our knees and begged." I don't mean that literally but I can't imagine what more we could have done unless it be just literally slobbering on the guy. But if he should have made that stand at the first I would be perfectly willing to accept it, even argue it with him later because we love to do that too. But I just don't know where his head was at to not even... I don't know whether he realized his absolute turn around of principles or whether he did it not even knowing it but I've never seen him do things like that before.


THERAPIST: Wonder whether [something was going for him] (ph) in some way? 


PATIENT: I don't know.


THERAPIST: Whether he changed for you or...?


PATIENT: Well, it completely baffles me.


THERAPIST: Just a puzzlement.


PATIENT: It just set me to thinking how small things like that seem to make often larger impressions than those things that you would pick out to be the highlight of the day. Those things that seem to be what the day is approaching or what you're working towards or something like that.


THERAPIST: You mean like that stuff would be almost more than the fact that you didn't get the money or something like that?


PATIENT: Yes entirely. If I were to remember that Josh and I didn't get his check cashed, that's what I'd remember about it more than the cashing or non-cashing. 0:17:04.7


THERAPIST: Was it something like...? You know him pretty well right?


PATIENT: Yes.


THERAPIST: With someone like that surprisingly... you think you know someone well to have that happen almost more so than someone that you wouldn't.


PATIENT: Yes and in fact there's about three instances that happened like that, two of them involving me in pretty much the same position and then another one involving someone else that happened between... that was just before we left and the time we got back. And it really had me bummed out for a while, just kind of thinking that you never really do know another person at all, you only have your image of them. But I kind of knew that anyway "(chuckles)". It was hard to try and have to reconcile myself to that.


THERAPIST: As a matter of fact we sort of know that in the abstract, that when a real clear cut example becomes a tad hard to swallow.


PATIENT: Yes.


THERAPIST: You've got to [adjust it to you] (ph).


PATIENT: That damn tower is weird every time I look out there.


THERAPIST: I think that's a sheet of (inaudible @ 0:19:13.6). You see that (inaudible @ 0:19:15.8)? Even that or it's almost drying (inaudible @ 0:19:18.4).


PATIENT: Oh no, that's ice.


THERAPIST: Do you think?


PATIENT: I noticed that on the bridges and some of the buildings downtown (inaudible @ 0:19:25.5).


THERAPIST: There's that one on Fifty sixth and either Woodlawn (sp?) University, it's a light grey stone.


PATIENT: Fifty sixth and Woodlawn (sp?), right.


THERAPIST: And it's got (0:19:39.4) in the windows and it looks weird today.


PATIENT: "(Chuckles)"


THERAPIST: After I dropped Brian off... well I think it was covered with ice too.


PATIENT: Well, what happened was that it was below freezing last night and that fog came in and the air got above freezing and the stone didn't warm up as fast. The fog froze to it. 0:19:57.7


I hope it doesn't freeze tonight but I'm afraid it will. I had some friends drop me off in the court over here. God I just about killed myself three times walking down here. It really bummed me out and it's the first time I've ever been in bad weather for over a year now but I didn't think, this, is the first time I've worn my shoes outside even. 


THERAPIST: Yes, you don't have boots?


PATIENT: Probably because my ankle's still swollen and I can't get them on. So I have to slog through all that crap in my damn slippers.


Do you have anyone in here...? I'm scheduled at 5:30pm, what I was wondering is there anyone here from 4:30pm to 5:30pm?


THERAPIST: No.


PATIENT: I wonder if we could move it back to 5pm because I found out that I'll be getting off work at 4pm. It's about a 20 minute drive back up here and I have to get cleaned up and come down here. And if I came in at 5pm that would get me home shortly after 6pm which is when dinner is served.


THERAPIST: That would be fine with me, yes.


PATIENT: That's what I was...


THERAPIST: The general principle with me is the earlier the better. 0:22:56.8


PATIENT: Yes.


THERAPIST: [You see] (ph) there are two types of therapists around here, there are people who can't come in in the morning, just couldn't see anybody in the morning. And like when I poop (ph) out it's this (ph) time of day so I... that would be fine.


PATIENT: Now are you people really here all day long?


THERAPIST: Some days. I've grown a little wiser the longer I (inaudible @ 0:23:22.6)


PATIENT: "(Chuckles)"


THERAPIST: (Inaudible @ 0:23:25.5) six, seven. My husband's here on (inaudible @ 0:23:31.1).


Are you wondering why anybody would be that devoted to a job?


PATIENT: Oh no.


THERAPIST: To be here that long?


PATIENT: I've worked 36 hours straight a couple of times. No, I take that back I only did that once. [It was ridiculous] (ph) I did that as an ambulance attendant. You can imagine what kind of shape I must have been in. For that kind of a position to have a guy that hasn't slept in 36 hours, I'm glad it wasn't me out on the streets to have an accident at that time.


THERAPIST: If you go at like 20 after will you get back in time for dinner?


PATIENT: Twenty after?


THERAPIST: Six. Will you miss by being here during this hour?


PATIENT: Oh no, I just have them save it for me. She just gets me a plate of it and sets it back. The only difference is I end up eating alone but then that doesn't matter because I'm going over to Mike's to eat tonight, which is cheaper and probably better.


Oh speaking of good meals, I finally got to open that bottle of wine that I told you about.


THERAPIST: Tell me again. 0:25:19.0


PATIENT: It was that... I think it was you I was telling you about... maybe it wasn't, maybe Jack Larkin. Yes, that's right it wasn't "(chuckles)". I was pretty stoned at the time; I had a $20 bottle of Champertine (sp?) Burgundy 53. I'd been kidding Jessica that one of these days we'd go out to dinner and we'd have some wine that was older than she was. Which, there's a million hours of time behind that that's not worth going into. But it was kind of a symbol that she and I have been trying to... we've had one legitimate pre-planned time, place, what we're going to do type of date in all the time we've known each other. We kept trying to go out to this really nice restaurant in Boise and we finally made. It was hectic but it was a gas.


THERAPIST: And you had... you did have the...?


PATIENT: So we finally made it and the wine itself was kind of a symbol that one of these days we might actually get our shit together and pull something off correctly for a change. 


God I can't wait to get back to work. I'm so nervous just thinking about it, I can hardly wait. And just now I realize how bored and disgusted I'd be in just sitting all day long for the last month and a half. At the time I'd just go through it without too much pain but it builds up after a while.


THERAPIST: Right. Now you see those loose ends are really (inaudible @ 0:27:19.1)


PATIENT: Yes. I don't know whether it's because... it's just that I've reached the end of the rope or whether it's just that now I'm not afraid to look at it because I know I don't have to worry about it anymore. I've been stoned almost constantly since last December when I quit work. I'd get up and I didn't have any money to go out anywhere, even just to get up and walk around here, so I'd just get stoned and sit around and read all day. That and it's been so damn cold.


THERAPIST: So [other than that] (ph) it seems pretty horrible.


PATIENT: Yes "(chuckles)". It looks like a real bummer from this end.


THERAPIST: It looks like you anesthetized your way through it.


PATIENT: "(Chuckles)". Very aptly put. 0:28:19.0


THERAPIST: I wasn't sure what you meant about being nervous about starting... you mean you're apprehensive? Is there some apprehension in that nervousness?


PATIENT: Oh no, no. It's like not nervousness just excitement.


THERAPIST: Anticipation?


PATIENT: Yes. Although I am wondering how well it will go over. I know of a person that has worked down there, the southern New York yard that I'm going to, the one right near here, I don't know which one. But at any rate it's almost pure Polish, the people that run these two yards. I don't intend to cut my hair before I go there but I'm hoping it doesn't cause any hassles. He says it's not hard to get along with them. They're a little bit red-necked but as long as you have a beer with them at lunch time they don't mind what you are. And I can get into that real easy anyway.


It was so strange to be back in Boise. There I'm considered a long hair, a fruit and I've never in my life been considered that. I mean I was... even when I was living there and I was quite a freak, I looked straight. Good God, I mean people were starring at me and mumbled dirty remarks behind my back and I just had a terrible time keeping from dying laughing or hitting somebody, sometimes I didn't know which but...


THERAPIST: Yes.


PATIENT: It was totally weird.


THERAPIST: But you [started wondering if it was] (ph) like walking into a little Boise down there maybe?


PATIENT: Yes. Although I'm sure that it's not. I've never had that kind of problem around here.


THERAPIST: Oh no, no. 0:30:25.6


PATIENT: It's strange that Josh and I had such different opinions about Boise. I couldn't care less if the place dried up and blew away, in fact I'd almost get a little bit of glee out of seeing it happen. But he's really proud of the town, he's really happy to admit that he came from there. And it's kind of the same feeling I had at first when I left Boise but since then after getting arrested and after having the political bullshit and all the power driven (ph) people there just really put the crap on me in that courtroom scene. And I almost hate to admit that I ever had anything to do with that place. 


Although in the normal aspect, nobody would know that and it's really no different than any place else, I don't imagine, although I'd think so "(chuckles)". I'd like to think there was some place I could go to get away from that kind of crap. I mean if I were to talk to somebody about Boise, the thing you would talk about isn't the way the political structure runs, or who likes to play power games, it's more to the effect of what the town's like. And it's still a fairly good town for that; it's a really nice place to grow up but its sure hell when you get down on your head there.


THERAPIST: You know I don't know if I really know what that's about, I don't have to know. 


PATIENT: [My arrest?] (ph).


THERAPIST: But sometimes you refer to it and I don't know what you mean.


PATIENT: Oh.


THERAPIST: I'm assuming (inaudible @ 0:32:07.2)


PATIENT: Last January 25th, a year ago, January 25th, that day went by and I didn't even know it, all of you go to hell. At any rate, a year ago January 25th, I had already met Jessica and spent a day out in the park, we were freaking around with a bunch of people. And I met a girl that I'd, or the younger sister of the girl that I'd known at Church, so I took her home and she lived way out at the other end of town. As I was coming back, I hadn't planned on taking her home and I was a little bit late, and I was coming back to see a girl that I had gone with before I met Jessica. For some reason or other she seemed real uptight and had asked to see me. I was still kind of completely confused about her anyway. She had really fucked my head over bad but I still hadn't gotten over it. 0:33:01.3


So I was (inaudible @ 0:33:03.0) along heading down (inaudible @ 0:33:04.4) and I hit a little kid that was 18 months old and killed him. He was a block from his parents' house. It was 6pm at night, dark and he was only 18 months old. Well the Police... I wasn't speeding, I got out within 10 seconds after I had the car stopped, I was giving the kid mouth to mouth and external cardiac, although I already knew he was dead. 


I filed a report, I stayed around, I took blood tests, I wasn't drunk, I wasn't stoned, I wasn't anything. The Police told me after three or four weeks that I was free to go. And it was during this three to four weeks that I found out that normally the investigation would have taken three to four days. But they were very, very into me on dope and they were trying to get me for that. But they... I finally talked to the Police Sergeant and he said this, is a little bit ridiculous and he finally called some people and demanded that they release my car. They had my car for three weeks. And he said, "There's no way we can charge you, we're not intending to." 


So, I moved up here February 26th. June 14th, well on June 7th say, I don't know, it was about a week before the Police called my brother here in New York and said that they wanted to talk to me, wouldn't tell me why. So I called the Police Station and they didn't know anything about it. So I kind of wondered who was playing Policeman.


Well, they finally went down to my office, to work, they didn't know evidently that I worked on the road and that I was seldom in the office. They talked to my boss said they wanted to see me and they called me from there. And I was at work in Elgin (sp?) and they said, "Well, we'll just see you this Sunday, how about Sunday morning?" And I said, "Fine, what's up?" And they said, "Nothing important we just want to talk to you." 


And it wasn't long before that that a black dude that I'd worked with had disappeared with a State car and all of his State civil service tests. And there were all kinds of rumors that he was involved with Black Panthers and I figured that's what it was. So Sunday morning rolled around and I was kind of uptight because it was a few months before that that I'd freaked out on acid in Boise and they'd carried me off to the hospital and all that. And I carry two little index cards filled with names and addresses of people because I'm forever contacting people all over the country. And I figured they'd seen my State ID's and notified the people here that I was a (inaudible @ 0:35:50.0) they wanted to talk to me about this dude or something like that; I didn't even consider the accident. But they arrested me for manslaughter.


THERAPIST: Somebody [put in] (ph) a charge or...? 0:35:59.9


PATIENT: It turned out... I knew at the time when I left Boise but even that I figured wasn't enough. The kids' grandfather is a bail bondsman, a very rich and influential one. We checked into the files and he had three times taken the files of the accident to the Police and demanded that I be arrested and they'd told him to go to hell. The Police never did charge me as I understand it. It was... he finally took it to a friend of his in the States office and as a kind of political favoritism turn about, the guy signed a warrant against me. So I was arrested for manslaughter. 


I went back to Boise and contacted the only lawyer I knew... the only lawyer. Turned out that he's crazy. I don't know what the disease is but he has some disease where he gets too much blood and it gets too thick and he has to periodically go have it drained and worked on. At any rate I've checked into that and at first it sounded crazy but I checked into it and it's true. For some reason or another over the years his brain just doesn't get enough blood. And he got into court and shit I almost cried the guy couldn't talk. He would ask questions. To ask a very simple question he'd get into the most involved, complex, dangling, just crazy.


THERAPIST: Didn't make any sense?


PATIENT: Didn't make any sense at all. And I got really scared then but even then it didn't seem like much trouble so we went through the preliminary, went through the arraignment and we went through the [docket sitting] (ph). Got to trial and at the trial, another lawyer came in to assist that was given by the insurance company. They figured that they had enough invested in the case that even though they weren't going to lose money in a criminal case, if it had enough bearing on the civil case that they knew was coming, that they ought to go ahead and invest (inaudible @ 0:38:09.3). Well he was a good lawyer and I was really sad that he hadn't come along earlier. But for some reason or another he took the opinion that this wasn't his case since he didn't get in on it from the first.


THERAPIST: So he didn't interview (ph) (inaudible @ 0:38:24.2)?


PATIENT: No. He let the other guy do his stand [and as long as] (ph)... the other guy at one point made mention that he'd just as well take care of it himself and I refused. I said, "No, I want this guy to be there." Well, we got one day through the trial and the preliminary trial had expected to take one day, it took four; just masses and masses of testimony. So we got to the trial and we went through in one day what it took two and a half days to do in the trial, or in the preliminary. Well the guy from the insurance company...


THERAPIST: Jury trial? 0:39:03.0


PATIENT: Yes, it was a jury trial. I still think that was a mistake. At any rate, it was just full of mistakes and like it would never happen again. Now I know more about it, I should have contacted two lawyers, all this good shit.


But at any rate I ended up into a position where he'd already in one day fucked up that trial so bad that I knew that things were really going bad. And I got alone with the insurance lawyer and he said, "I can arrange to have a reduced charge - negligent homicide." So I had to accept it. The choice was if we went ahead with the trial the Judge had to give the jury a case of, guilty of manslaughter, not guilty, or guilty of negligent homicide. And he said in a case with kids like this you shouldn't have had a jury trial because they're always going to feel sorry for the kid.


THERAPIST: For the kid, right.


PATIENT: And he said with that choice, if it was just manslaughter or not guilty, you'd have it made, they're not going to throw you in the can. But he says they'll undoubtedly choose negligent homicide as just kind of letting me off easy. And he said in that case, although it's not legal it's not really supposed to have... it usually is a psychological position where the Judge feels that if you force them to go through with a trial then you deserve punishment and I would have, in all likelihood gotten a jail sentence. 


He says if I took the reduced charge, I didn't have to plead guilty, I would plead nolo contendere and that way it couldn't go on the record as guilty. Although I would be charged and sentenced as guilty, I can't be actually said to be guilty. So I ended up nolo contendere with a year's probation, six months jail sentence; which means I now have a record, both a felony arrest and a misdemeanor. It's supposed to be the ultimate in misdemeanor you know. It's on the line between... and a year's probation. 


Plus the lawyer that was no God damn good, cost us over $2,000. I had to pay $700 in court costs. I had to pay a couple of hundred dollars for [arraignment] (ph). When I say I, my father paid most of this, I paid the court costs but I now owe him over $4,000 easily. And we're just now getting started on a $36,000 civil suit.


THERAPIST: Against? [I don't know anything about it] (ph).


PATIENT: Against me. 


THERAPIST: They're... who?


PATIENT: The child's parents are suing me.


THERAPIST: What can they bring a civil suit for? I get very confused about this court crap.


PATIENT: Negligent homicide. I was the cause of their child's death.


THERAPIST: I see.


PATIENT: But see the criminal case is their pound of flesh revenge.


THERAPIST: That's right. 0:42:01.4


PATIENT: Then there are also... now I talked to their lawyer and even he, well my lawyer talked to their lawyer, and even their lawyer admitted that he thought this was a little bit Hoxie and that they had even said that they didn't think I was really guilty. That this seemed to be a kind of a case where they wanted to get it off their conscience. The kid was obviously... it should have been taken care of. And it was more a case of that. The whole case was built on that I had dirty headlights and it was a day like 20 degrees warmer than this. Water on the streets that kind of shit.


THERAPIST: That's just about enough to fuck your life up for two, three more years.


PATIENT: Yes it did a beautiful job. It just God damn near ruined me.


THERAPIST: Does it... this will sound like a really dumb question...


PATIENT: "(Chuckles)"


THERAPIST: ...it's got two parts, one, does it bother you to have to talk about it like that?


PATIENT: No not at all.


THERAPIST: I'm glad... I mean I'm glad to hear what it's about but I didn't mean to make you go through it.


PATIENT: No it doesn't bother me. Just riles me up a little but I don't mind that anyway.


THERAPIST: And second of all, is this something that is... if it was me it would be hanging over my head every second in some way. Is that how it functions for you? Or being away from Boise, does it make it a little easier (ph)?


PATIENT: Well, it gets in the way a lot. From two angles, one, I really feel bad about killing a kid. I've had one nightmare, I expected at the time that it would really fuck me up bad and it didn't. And I think the only reason it didn't was because I really didn't feel terribly guilty, I mean I felt like it was a terrible thing to have happen but...


THERAPIST: But you didn't really (inaudible @ 0:43:48.1).


PATIENT: I convinced myself that my dirty headlights were the main cause of that kid's death. But the ugly scene and the way I got fucked over from it, both because it was me and both because that kind of thing is so easy to have happen.


THERAPIST: Yes [so ugly] (ph).


PATIENT: Upsets me an awful lot. It's just like there's that much more injustice that you have to put up with. And like I said, I say that from two points both because it was, I have to put up with it and because it's there. 


THERAPIST: Yes. 0:44:21.7


PATIENT: But like I said talking about Boise, I wouldn't normally go into that kind of an aspect. It's a pretty town, it's, until recently, had a good economy and there's very little slum down there. 


The one thing I do dislike about the actual essence of Boise is it's as late as 1965, or 1966 I believe it was, it was the most segregated city in the US and it still is. Although I don't notice racism there so much, not anymore than any other Midwest damn farm kid will get, "God damn niggers" and all this kind of shit. But it isn't so bad at that but just the way the town functions, there's the very strict Negro area that only in the last two years has started moving in and dissolving into the other parts of the city.


THERAPIST: It's almost like there's really a wall around it.


PATIENT: Very much. In fact, I lived on one side of the street once, the other side was, the Negro area of town. And we literally... the night that I moved into this place, sat on our porch and watched a riot across the street while they tore down three buildings. I mean tore the buildings, like a McDonalds that was made of glass; they just ripped it right down to the ground. A gas station "(chuckles)".


THERAPIST: It's like living in [Ashland, Maryland] (ph). There's one dividing line over here west...


PATIENT: I don't know I don't get more than three blocks in any one direction "(chuckles)". I mean almost literally.


THERAPIST: That's an experience, I'll tell you.


PATIENT: I once got lost over in Woodlawn (sp?). Sure glad it was in the day time. It still scared the hell out of me. Jesus Christ! I was driving around in a car with State Emblems on it. That's enough to get you ripped off. But the stupidity and hypocrisy of the radicals around here turns me off just as much as a racist.


THERAPIST: Around there or around...?


PATIENT: Here. Here on Campus. These great saviors of the US that came out one time when I had a State car parked where it says 'Department of Personnel' and they wrote Pig all over it, just ruined the damn car. That's just... angry about it, I don't know.


THERAPIST: Doesn't feel any more constructive than Paul McIntyre (sp?) and his cronies (ph).


PATIENT: "(Chuckles)".


THERAPIST: Except he's not a racist, well he probably is.


PATIENT: "(Laughter)"


THERAPIST: [I don't know that about him] (ph) but everything else (inaudible @ 0:46:57.7)


PATIENT: "(Laughter)"


THERAPIST: Do you know about him?


PATIENT: No.


THERAPIST: He's the guy that organizes all these support, the war policy type marches. He's a fundamentalist minister and he's bought 25 million dollars worth of property in Coco (sp?) Beach, Florida, which is right near Cape Kennedy. And he's going to try to Christianize the area in...


PATIENT: Christianize the area? 0:47:26.6


THERAPIST: Yes, that's not what he calls it, that's what I call it.


PATIENT: "(Laughter)".


THERAPIST: He's one of these like really... he hates Catholics, he hates Billy Graham, and he hates everything. Just a vile species of American as far as I'm concerned. He probably (inaudible @ 0:47:46.2).


PATIENT: "(Chuckles)". He sounds it.


It's strange; I've noticed that people seem to get into that kind of thing. I refer to power games and that's the way it strikes me a lot of times. I was talking to this guy not too long ago who is kind of a... last summer we had a very big kit (ph) going, there were a lot of us, there were eight of us maybe in a group that stayed here when everybody else split. And we had the whole place to ourselves it seemed like all summer long. Every weekend we all dropped and went out and had fun. Through the week we just did our thing and listened to records every evening. And we had a really good time. We had what we called the apathy religion in philosophy. 


And the way we would preach our religion was to carry signs that said, "Don't look at me and don't read my sign." Only we didn't have the energy or willpower to get up and do it. The thing was if anything happened we would always, almost as a reflex go - who cares? And we got to talking about the people that seemed to really get in to power games are the people that can't seem to get their own shit together and they start having to fuck around with other people's lives.


THERAPIST: Yes, moving (ph) other people's lives.


PATIENT: And the more I look at it the more that it strikes me as true. That the people that get into those kinds of things are the ones, that for some reason or other, had to do it because they weren't satisfied with what they had either because it wasn't enough for them or because it was too much of a mess to bother with.


THERAPIST: It's why the person who's really together and integrated, you're saying, isn't going to need to get into a power game.


PATIENT: Right.


THERAPIST: Or he'll know what his power is and he'll use it when he needs to but no...


PATIENT: But they never need to... they don't have to structure it into a system of Police States and laws, and Governments, etc...


THERAPIST: We'd better close off for today.


END TRANSCRIPT
