<font size="4"><b>1: And Lo, the Star</b></font>

THIS IS MY STORYA TRAGIC ONE. MOST OF IT IS TRUEBUT I HAVE
in most parts given fictitious names to persons and places to
safeguard the livingmany of whom still live in "The Institution"
or other such socalled "Mental Institutions." It is the
story of how I, too, came to suffer mentally and was incarcerated
"for my own good"<i>supposedly</i>in such an institution.


I was then a young womanwell preserved, tall and dignified;
yes, and I may truthfully say, fairly goodlooking and cultured.
I say this candidly because it is the truth and not because I wish
to boast, for there would be no good reason to boast.


I had been torn from my home, my loved onesand borne
away to "the institution." The worst that could happen to me,
it seemed then, had happened. Death is easy; it is the end of
things. There is no longer any suffering; there is peace of mind
rest, blessed rest. The body and the soul are at rest.


But, when taken to a "mental institution," it is only too often
the beginning of a new and terrible lifea living hell instead of
the rest and relaxation and cure it should be and is declared to be.

[p. <i>2</i>]

Yes, there I wasthere I stood, looking sheepishly about me.
I was shorn of the dignity of clothing<i>my</i> clothing, which was
being snatched from me and hastily tabulated on a record sheet
by the whiteclad attendants of this "Psychopathic Hospital"
where I had been taken by people I had every reason to trust.
People who, supposedly, meant only the best for me; wanted me
cured of what was troubling me so that I could be speedily returned
to them and normal society in perfectly normal, natural
statementally.


But I could not believe then that I was not right. I was as sane
as any of them; perhaps a little high-strung; my nerves a bit
frayed, due to overwork and too much to think about. But certainly
far, far from being mentally unbalanced.


It had all come so suddenlythis taking me away, bringing
me here. What did all this mean? As I stood there I had a strange,
uneasy feeling that I was being betrayedespecially when the
person who had brought me there had suddenly left me. I felt
so all aloneentirely deserted.


Aloneyet not alone. But alone among strangerspeople who
should be friendly, work for my welfare, but who seemed not to
understand me and my case as they should. It was only a nasty
business with them; and I was another "nut"; another bothersome
but needed case for them to take care of as best they could.
Without delay, they let me know that I would have to behave
myself in my own best interests. They would stand for no
nonsense.


"You'll fare better and make it easier for yourself if you obey
without question or quibble!" I was told a bit gruffly and firmly
by one "in command" there.


I tried to smile but it was hard and forced. I had been spoken
to as though I were a hardened criminala prisonernot a
medical case requiring, deserving sympathy and understanding
and kindly help.

[p. <i>3</i>]

Goose pimples of fright and apprehension studded my mesomorphic
type of body. I use the medical term for had I not had
the instruction: "Know thyself!"


I tried to smile bravely as I recalled the time, some years previously,
when I was feeling quite unstrung, I had told my doctor
I felt as though I were going "crazy." He had smiled reassuringly
at me and said jocularly, comfortingly, "Then you needn't
worry, for if you're really crazy you don't know it and are always
sure you are sane."


Yes, even now I had no thought that I was Mrs. Napoleon
Bonaparte or Martha Washington or Cleopatra. I knew perfectly
well I was still just plain Margaret May Aikins.


I suffered in silence, allowing my clothing to be stripped from
me until I stood as naked as the day I was born.


Until my diamond ring was plucked from my finger, I had
stood up bravely under the strainbut that was the last straw.
When I saw it listed at the very bottom of my record and remembered
the many records I had seen with that corner missing,
I felt my ring was doomed to be lost to me forever. Then I began
to break down. I began to weep from weariness and worry and
the feeling of injustice held me down more heavily than ever.
Then I began to feel real panic.


Perhaps one of the attendants, at least, was kind. I was given
a bed close at hand to lie down on and was left to myself for a
time. I slept and sleep was merciful oblivion. I slept for a long
time, completely exhausted.


But when I wakened again, I faced horrible reality. I looked
about me like a trapped animal at bay. Was there no escape for
me? What would happen to me next? I was helpless; a prisoner
at the mercy of my jailors; for so I looked upon those hired to
take tender care of me.


After I was rested I was transferred upstairs to a ward bed next
to the wall, where I was no longer alone. But was this any better?

[p. <i>4</i>]

Perhaps I could help others more unfortunate than myself. In
so doing I would be able to help myself most.


But I soon realized that being with these who were worse off
than I, was going to make me worse instead of better. Or so it
seemed to me at the time.


The woman next to me was a "raver." She kept talking to herself
constantly, ranting on and on in a senseless and irritating
manner until the attendant finally appeared and gave her a
sedative.


But she was oh, so clever. She had managed to hoodwink the
attendant out of her "vanity case," and was the only one privileged
to use make-up the next morning. She was so proud of her
appearance. She had once been beautiful; but now, with her
mind somewhat afflicted, she made-up quite after the manner of
a harlot.


There were otherssad cases. There were those who prayed;
some who cursed, raved and kept all the rest of us awake all
night, either with their incessant chatter or the attendants'
rebukes.


It was the most hideous experience I had had in all my life
and I felt positively nauseated from it. Heavens! To think that
I should be forced to livenay, exist, languish, suffer, in such a
place, surrounded by such sordid, unfortunate companions, for,
despite my disgust, my heart went out to them in sympathy.


Across from me lay the worst exposed, shameless bit of nudity
I had ever beheld. A fat, piggish-looking woman lay scissor-like
on her bed; her gown was up around her neck and she snored
loudly. I learned later that she was pregnant and on bad terms
with her husband. At the time I did not think very favorably of

[p. <i>5</i>]

After a long, monotonous, despondent evening, the lights in
our "ward" were lowered and the attendants sat "on guard" at
the far end of the large room.


Again I finally found surcease from sorrow in blessed sleep.
Still I was hoping that all this horror was but a "temporary ar rangement
and I would soon be out of there and back in normal
life.


Morning came with washroom sessions the like of which I
had never before known. But I was in for it and had to grin and
bear it. It was there we met the patients who knew what this was
all aboutand their explanations to those like myself were
candid and enlightening to say the least.


We were being "tucked away"so they said. Later I was to
realize more fully and despairingly just what they meant by this
term.


I listened eagerly, disgusted at times, shocked, horrified, to the
conversation going on all about me. There was talk of alcoholism,
drugs and crime. Many of my unlucky and unhappy companion
"inmates" knew why they were therefor examination.
Others, including myself, were in the dark.


Why, why, oh Lord? I asked myself. Had I not appeased my
conscience and asked God's forgiveness for any wrongs I might

[p. <i>6</i>]

We learned a lot from a large colored woman who presided
over the council, giving out such information as a second offender
might have to offer. Still, I was grateful for her. She was some-what
comforting, advising and enjoying her new-found power in
her relationship with the group.


Yes, I decided then and repeat here, the place to hear real, true
case histories is not in the clinic, but in the washroom of an
institution.


It was in the washroom that I was fully initiated into the
Order of the Eastern Star by one of its past grand matrons, a
married woman who fell in love with me at first sight, and so
made me a "Star." Mentals, I found, have great "crushes."


There, in the far stall, sat a patient with a third-degree sunburn.
She was red as a beet and, to hide her condition, she
seemed to have made special reservation of that one stall. I noted
that she occupied her retreat for hours, coming out only for
meals or to go to her bed.


One woman in the ward attracted me as soon as I saw her. She
had the drawing power of the shade of a tree on a torrid day.
She was a slender, elderly woman with an air of culture and great
refinement. She was the first person to whom I really introduced
myself. She had been an adjustment teacher and was the first
person with whom I actually exchanged confidences. It was significant
to me to learn she had been an adjustment teacher because
it had been an adjustment teacher in my school who had
signed me in. She was the first to inform me that I was a "sun-stroke"
patient and that she was particularly interested in me.

[p. <i>7</i>]

She was really charming. The patients, especially the younger,
thinking type of women, gathered about her while she recited
poetry. And she and I made many plans for a future together
none of which, however, ever materialized.

