TRANSCRIPT OF AUDIO FILE:
______________________________________________________________________________
BEGIN TRANSCRIPT:
THERAPIST: Do you think it's because we didn't for such a long time?
CLIENT: I don't know.
THERAPIST: I don't Philrally forget.
CLIENT: I believe it. (pause) It has been very painful in a very familiar way to be going into work every day. There are a couple of things going on: a) I'm drawing a salary for a program that, quite frankly, is more or less moribund and I feel like I need to show up. They put the cubicle, for whatever reason, near Human Resources. (chuckles) It feels like it's important on several levels to show up and I feel like there's some observation. Secondly, I fought long and hard to get this instituted and I feel like I need to show up for that purpose. [00:01:20] The problem is that, in terms of the program itself, there's very little to do; and I think the other problem is that I don't see it fitting into my life anymore. I was reminded a couple of days ago when we visited Jennie's (sp?) friend, Bella, whom I advocated to take the job that I gave up at the university, and I was upset during dinner and tried to talk about it with Jennie, and she's in a difficult place. She felt stressed about it, I could tell. [00:02:11] It was a plausible possible future, I guess. I just wasn't doing what I would have needed to to make it so. I feel the weight of abandoning that possible future, even though I didn't pursue it, so that's part of it. But the other part is that I gave it up. I gave it up in order to take this job and the job has disappointed me in my hope that it would offer a plausible way forward. And so, here I am, going in every day, and it doesn't offer a kind of super-structure. [00:03:09] That I really feel very acutely. I feel very disturbed by that. I feel disturbed by the absence of a narrative. I've been trying to understand the level of degree of upset, the degree of discomfort that I feel as I'm sitting there during the course of the day doing nothing. In theory, I could and should be doing anything, but I don't know what to work on. I've given up academic work in the specialty that I trained for officially. It seems to me that there is no future for me in this other area, so what do I work on? [00:04:03] What would I look at? What would I read? What would I pursue? I don't see what I'm pursuing at this moment, and that hurts. That feels disturbing. I feel disturbed by that, so I found it really difficult for a long time to understand what I was doing as I sat there. It would be reading blogs about the election or reading news stories kind of compulsively. At a certain point I started watching Netflix, and I think the way I'm understanding it right now, it was upsetting, it felt compulsive, it felt kind of nutty; and I guess I just had a flash as I was bicycling home yesterday after another day feeling this really extreme stress, really extreme discomfort, and I just need a narrative. That was the feeling I had. I don't know where it fits in to all of this other stuff. [00:05:17] I feel so acutely the absence of narrative for my life right now. I don't think it's just the lack of a narrative, I think it's the lack of skill or facility or comfort finding one. I'm aware that you kind of have to construct one, but I haven't; and at this stage of my life not having one is kind of devastating. It feels so farcical to be sitting there, to have a sense that it's important to show up; and yet it's like a Potemkin village, you know? [00:06:03]
THERAPIST: What does that mean?
CLIENT: Potemkin. Vassily Potemkin, I think it was, was one of Katherine the Great's advisors. He was ordered to develop programs for rule development, but he didn't actually have any budget to do so, so he went out to all of these villages that the dignitaries were going to tour and he put up façades that looked like very nice, well-constructed village houses. And behind it, it was just the same old village. (sighs) It's just a façade right now and it's not a very good façade. I don't know what else to do. I feel very disturbed by this. I guess it's a relief to have a kind of model of what's going on at work because it's been so strange to me. I guess it's a relief to have a kind of model of what's going on at work because it's been so strange to me. All that being said, I don't see an easy solution. [00:07:07] I'm clearly having trouble for one reason or another creating a plan, constructing a thing to do in the world; some of what we've been talking about, I guess, has gotten in the way of it. Some of it has been the impulse to X, Y or Z, but the long and short of it is that I don't have it. I've been doing everything that I can to get it and it's not coming. I feel like somebody with my skills and my abilities ought to be able to find one. Other people in their own way have been trying to offer me one and, for whatever reason, I haven't seized it. That's the sense I have. I have a sense of there's a bottom line part of it, I guess, and there's a value part and I feel self-critical about the value part. The bottom line is that I don't have one and that lack is really making me very anxious. [00:08:49] (pause) 
THERAPIST: I guess it sounds to me in parallel with what happened to Phil, but with the project.
CLIENT: I don't understand. "In parallel with what happened to Phil, but with the project?" [00:10:10]
THERAPIST: With Phil, where he sort of began a process of abandoning you.
CLIENT: He just disappeared. I'm not disappearing, I'm showing up. It's just I'm not all there.
THERAPIST: Maybe I'm unclear. The most recent episode started, really, when Phil said he was leaving; and a lot of his behavior since then especially . . . 
CLIENT: Phil started leaving two months before he came up to me and said he was almost certainly taking this job. It wasn't when he said that he was interviewing these other people, "I might take another job elsewhere." I've known that for months. It was when he came up to me specifically after this discussion that he was 25 minutes late for—a discussion with the COO of the organization that he was 25 minutes late for—and told me, "I'm almost certainly taking this other job." So I'm not—plus I'm not getting the parallel. [00:11:32]
THERAPIST: My point is that, as it began to feel like he was abandoning you, you let's say shut down. You had a large and complicated reaction to what we've been talking about. For the moment, I'll just use the heading "shut down".
CLIENT: Okay. Yes. I agree.
THERAPIST: And the way you're talking today in the parallel I'm trying to make, it's like as Phil is to what I'm describing, the project is to what you're talking about now.
CLIENT: The project? You mean my finding a project for me in my life?
THERAPIST: No. I mean your project at work. It's moribund. It essentially died on you.
CLIENT: It doesn't die. It's still moving forward in the slow way that it would, but what I have to contribute to it at this point is not significant. [00:12:56]
THERAPIST: Okay. For you, it's moribund.
CLIENT: From my point of view it's moribund. Fair enough.
THERAPIST: And I think it's producing a similar reaction or an echo of the sort of reaction that happened with Phil.
CLIENT: Maybe. Maybe. Something is happening at work. (pause) 
THERAPIST: Part of what I'm seeing is an indication is that when this kind of thing happens, you tend to go big. This project isn't providing you with things to work on. [00:14:14]
CLIENT: See, what's curious to me is not that I'm not working on the project. There are probably things that I could do. There are definitely things that I could do. There are things that aren't getting done formally, but I could be pro-active and develop their curricula down the road. That might be useful to work on, etc. There are probably things that I could be reading, but this is not going to provide me with any sort of stable professional situation so it's very hard for me. It's like professional situations are kind of cold-blooded in a deracinated way of talking about it. 
THERAPIST: [ ] (inaudible at 00:15:02) 
CLIENT: I don't know. Work. A way to think of myself in the world as a productive human being.
THERAPIST: That's why I was growing when I was saying you tend to go big.
CLIENT: "I tend to go big?" Yeah. All right. I tend to go big in my understanding of what work is probably.
THERAPIST: The immediate scope of this problem is that there is not a whole lot of substantial stuff for you to do on this project that you've been on.
CLIENT: Yeah, that's true.
THERAPIST: That is a much more limited issue in a sense than, "Oh, my God. How am I going to make a narrative about my professional life?" That's the sort of growing big I'm referring to and that's an important issue, but you tend to go very quickly from the one to the other. [00:16:11]
CLIENT: That's because I think that's the problem. I wouldn't be upset to this degree if the problem was only that I didn't have enough bank work. (pause) 
THERAPIST: Or there's something about the experience of having something slip away or something you've lost or something that was, in some sense, promised for you but apparently there for you that is now gone; and you react by shutting down, having a very fake sense of despair and frustrating, purposelessness. [00:17:19]
CLIENT: Say that again.
THERAPIST: You're saying, "Look, Ethan. Yeah, I'm less apt to this big question because having more substantial work on this project is always a big question for me, but when I was having substantial things to do on this project, it allayed these worries." That's how I understood what you were just saying. 
CLIENT: It really didn't allay those worries. At some level I've been anxious all year. I guess I felt better when there was a lot of work to do, at least some substantial work to do.
THERAPIST: I mean, you were even inspired at some moments. 
CLIENT: At some moments. That's true. [00:18:10]
THERAPIST: Inspired enough to imagine this would be viable, at least for the coming year, at least for the coming 12 months; viable enough that I should give up what was not a great or very satisfying position, but that at least offered more professional certainty than I have right now. I remember what last year was like while I was teaching. It was either that I was kind of disengaged or that I was just in terror. I wasn't able to do the day-to-day preparation, including producing academic work that would be necessary in order to pursue that. So at some level, I didn't go after it and it made sense to move away from this position that might offer me an avenue to a stable professional situation in history. I didn't do it. I wasn't doing it. It was a correct assessment to say that I'm not pursuing this so I shouldn't hold onto this, and yet buy leaving it . . . [00:19:46]
THERAPIST: That' quite different from how you presented it at the time.
CLIENT: At the time? What did I say at the time?
THERAPIST: This really was all that you wanted to do.
CLIENT: Isn't that what I just said? Oh—this really wasn't what I wanted to do.
THERAPIST: In a broader way, this wasn't for you. That wasn't the direction you wanted to take your career—not, at least, as you presented it then, because you were having trouble getting to the day-to-day work or doing a good job at it, but because it wasn't what you were so interested in.
CLIENT: That's interesting. That's interesting. Okay. I have two competing narratives then, I guess, and I should probably go with the narrative that's there at the time. (pause) Both have some [scrut] (ph at 00:20:42) At any rate, it wasn't unreasonable to give it up under those circumstances regardless of whether the destruction is that I didn't want it or that I wasn't doing it. The bottom line is that it wasn't something that I was seizing. The problem is that there's nothing that I'm seizing in that sense. It's always the case that either I feel that I don't want it or I have the sense that I'm just not pursuing it and so I need to pursue something else. [00:21:13]
THERAPIST: Maybe you seize it until it's not there for you or until you feel like it's not substantial enough. In other words, you were really excited about this project and, when I said inspired, I was also referring to you had a number of great ideas that you were enthusiastic and very energetic about to do with this project and some others in the organization more broadly. 
CLIENT: Phil leaving seems to be, at least at some level, the combination of Phil leaving and my talk with Tim, at which he informed me that there's really no path to a tenure track and there's no way of doing this—the combination of those two things seems to be what—in theory I have an amazing situation right now. I'm pulling a salary, my responsibilities are de minimus, I could be working on anything I want. I could be working on developing anything I want, but I'm not. I'm sitting there and watching Netflix. Why? That's the moment at which I sort of reach for the grand narrative. I need some explanation for this. This is strange. [00:22:39]
THERAPIST: You're injured.
CLIENT: I'm injured. That's true. I would endorse that. I'm injured. That's true. What am I injured by? (pause) Or how am I injured? What is the character of "injured"? 
THERAPIST: I think injury and insult. I don't have a precise answer for you, but it's something about people not being there for you in ways that you expected; or they seemed to promise opportunities not being there for you in ways that seem expected and have been promised. Something along those lines. The rug pulled out. (pause) [00:24:24]
CLIENT: Okay. "Injured by people not being there for me in the way that I expected." That's very big.
THERAPIST: Phil leaving, there not being very much for you to work on with this project, there not being an opportunity for a tenure-track job—these are things that you felt were there, you felt were, not exactly promised, but something like that, that you've been working for. [00:25:32]
CLIENT: Okay. 
THERAPIST: What's on your mind?
CLIENT: Injured. Injured is a very specific term. Was I injured? Are you saying I was injured?
THERAPIST: Were you injured? 
CLIENT: I don't know.
THERAPIST: Really. 
CLIENT: So there's a curiosity here. I have a job. I have a place to work. I don't have other competing priorities. I could be working on anything that I want to, really, and I'm not. I say, "This is really strange to me." There's a strangeness here and when I'm trying to explain it and you ask me why I'm trying to go big, I'm trying to go big because there's some profound disquiet that I'm feeling that's getting in the way of proceeding in the direction that's logical. I think I'm trying to understand this. I don't understand it and you say, "It's because you're injured." [00:27:01] And I say, "I don't know. What do you mean I'm injured? What's the character of the injury?" and you say, "You're injured by people not following through or people letting you down." 
THERAPIST: I see. No, that really doesn't describe the characteristic of injury. 
CLIENT: It doesn't really describe the character of injury. What exactly are we talking about here?
THERAPIST: I see. Okay. I was responding to, "How was I injured", not was the therapy . . . 
CLIENT: But even, "How was I injured?" First describe the character of the injury and then let's figure out if the proposition for its etiology makes sense. Don't you always have to start with the character of the injury? How could you describe the etiology of an illness that you haven't even ascertained the nature of? (pause) [00:28:02]
THERAPIST: What kind of method is this?
CLIENT: No, no. I'm not going that large. (both laugh) I'm not critiquing your method. I'm saying here is a specific issue. Here is a specific question. There is a real strangeness here, a strangeness that, on a daily basis, is really affecting me very powerfully and I want to understand it. Our conversations, in part, are about understanding it better, let alone intervening in it. I'm kind of befuddled. I'm like what the fuck? (chuckles) It's a WTF moment. [00:28:33]
THERAPIST: (laughs) Now there's a diagnosis. (both laugh) (pause) I guess I have a couple of thoughts. I think it's basically a narcissistic injury. I'm not saying you're narcissistic. That's not what I mean, but I think it's a narcissistic injury.
CLIENT: Okay. Say more. I don't know what you mean when you say that so I need to hear more. 
THERAPIST: A whack to your self-esteem or feeling about yourself, in the same way that—I'm using caricature—like nobody shows up at a birthday party, or if it's promised a toy or present for the birthday and it just doesn't happen, or somebody blows you off at a meeting that felt important or forgets about something that really matters to you. Those all could produce narcissistic injury, make you feel unworthy. Something that made you feel "uncared" about. [00:31:20]
CLIENT: "Uncared about." I can see that. (pause) I guess I don't quite understand the response, but I can see that that plays a role. It definitely hurts to be stuck in this cubicle in the middle of nowhere.
THERAPIST: That was good. Uncared about, unworthy, and sort of shamed.
CLIENT: Shamed. Shamed seems closer. Shamed seems closer. They're certainly compatible. Unworthy is pointing a little bit different direction, I guess, in the sense that there's a step between not being validated or praised or whatever—I think that's what you're getting at—and feeling unworthy, being unworthy. But that's consistent with how I'm feeling, it's consistent with the feeling moments I'm already feeling. [00:33:11] Okay, so that injury (pause)—why is that injury interfering with my ability to imagine a different direction for myself? On curiosity in my response is that I seem to be, I sense that I am incapable of taking it into my own hand in saying, "I need to start looking for an alternative situation, since this one clearly isn't working out, etc. etc." Here's a curiosity. It sounds like a tangent, but maybe it's not. [00:34:09] I'm trying to get renter's insurance. The landlord is about 80 and lives downstairs. He came up the other day, knocked on the door and he said, "Do you have a big bookshelf in this room?" This is Jennie's office. We do. There is a very large five-shelf bookshelf that goes almost the entire length of the room and is full of books. He said, "I'm hearing some creaking and I would like you to either get a new bookshelf or distribute some of those books to the other side of the room. I'm worried about the structural integrity of the house." He didn't say that, but that's basically what he's implying. Jennie was feeling unsettled about her office and it was kind of a mess and put it off for two or three days and we filed it in a corner "pending". I'm like, "Whatever." It's a house. The bookshelf is not going to collapse the house. It may be that there's something to worry about. If there is something to worry about then we want to be protected, so we should get renter's insurance. I think I got the final inspiration to get renter's insurance as I was sitting on the toilet and the earthquake last night—did you know about the earthquake last night? 
THERAPIST: No. Oh, my gosh. [00:35:44]
CLIENT: And I went to get renter's insurance. I'm filling out the online form for the quote and I filled in Jennie's name rather than mine; and I thought to myself, "This is curious. Why did I do that?" And it seems to me that what I've done for my entire professional life is I found somebody that seems compelling and what I pursued has been within that rubric, the rubric of what they want to be doing. It's true that there was this project and it seemed good, but I think what I fear at least, and I think there's some plausible evidence for it, is it's not so much that I didn't want to do this academic history thing. It's not so much that I don't want to apply for jobs just as a normal job applicant; it's that I feel incapable of doing so. I need somebody that I know that I have developed some relationship with. When I first went into history it was not because I had planned to do so, it was because I had a professor that I had a relationship with and, in fact, when I applied to graduate school and history, he was kind of shocked. He said—at some level in my recollection, I'm not sure if this is verbatim the way that the exchange went—"Why are you doing that?" [00:37:28] I think I had taken only two history classes as an undergraduate, but I really liked him. I really liked Joseph. So I did that with Joseph. He was about my father's age. I did that with Jim. I did that with Phil, and in each case, certainly with Jim and Phil, it's proven to be the case that they have their own agenda and they didn't totally follow through with what I was hoping for and I was disappointed. But the real malady at some level is that I feel incapable of just creating a narrative on my own and applying for a job and pursuing a career under my own power with my own power of narrative. It's like I'm looking for somebody else's narrative to be parasitical on. That's "going big", I guess. [00:38:29]
THERAPIST: Is that true here, too? Another thing I've been thinking of commenting on is you've been asking me a bunch of questions and it feels like there's a kind of intensity or pressure in them. I wonder if you're similarly leaning on me for a narrative about what's going on. It's expectable that, of course, you want my help because, in a way, that's part of what you're here for. I'm not saying that's off the wall, but I wonder if some of the feel of it or the backdrop for it is the kind of thing you're talking about. [00:39:17]
CLIENT: (long pause) (sigh) [00:40:03] I don't think so. My intuition says "no", but maybe. I'll think about that going forward. (pause) I don't think so. What I want from you is results. I want to be able to move forward. My sense of what I want from you is very practical and pragmatic. I would like, if this is ultimately what we're talking about is some kind of (sigh) defect of, malady of my personality, then I'd like to rectify it and I would like your help rectifying it. I think I'm looking to be shaded by your penumbra, but I do think that there's a clear pattern of that happening elsewhere in particularly of mine professionally, and that's a big problem. The fact that I can't find anything to do when I go to work and sit down is very problematic. I agree with you that there's an injury. [00:42:01]
THERAPIST: Maybe we're talking about different aspects of the same model. You refer to putting yourself in the shadows, kind of requiring this sort of relationship and enthusiasm between you in order to get moving career wise. I imagine that it's something to do with wanting to heal from this injury, that it's something to do with how you get insulted when it doesn't happen and the hurt that it brings you back to in a way that you shut down in response to that hurt. I imagine that's all part of the package. [00:43:07]
CLIENT: (whispered) Yeah. And I imagine we'll have to continue on Friday.
THERAPIST: Yes.
CLIENT: Okay. (both chuckle) It's hard. It's hard to continue on a Friday. I would like some intervention, it's true, but Friday's okay. All right. 
THERAPIST: See you then.
CLIENT: See you. Bye bye.
END TRANSCRIPT
