<font size="4"><b>14: Schizophrenia</b></font>

In terms of human suffering, economic
wastage, duration of the illness, downright
complexity, and all-around bafflement,
schizophrenia is the greatest scourge ever visited upon the mind of
man.


Statistics only begin to tell the story of its frightful impact. Of
the more than 600,000 hospital beds in this country occupied by the
mentally ill, over 300,000 are devoted to one terrible disease: schizophrenia.
The average stay of a schizophrenic in a state mental hospital
is estimated at about fifteen years. Most telling of all is the vicious
ability of schizophrenia to cut down the young in the prime
of life. First known as "dementia praecox"a disease of adolescence
or youthit unleashes its greatest ravages in the 15-to-54-year age
group. Compare it with cancer, long regarded the deadliest of
diseases. Approximately 27 per cent of male new cancer cases are in
the 15-54 year group, but more than 75 per cent of schizophrenics
fall in this age group.


Dr. Benjamin Malzberg of the New York State Department of
Mental Hygiene has done some studies on the economic toll exacted
by schizophrenia. Presenting statistics which show an average loss of
sixteen working years for schizophrenics admitted to New York
State mental hospitals, Malzberg estimates that the 2,427 schizophrenics
admitted to these hospitals in the fiscal year ending March,
1948, lost more man $50,000,000 in net future earnings.


"Schizophrenia is undoubtedly the major clinical and theoretical
problem confronting psychiatry today," writes Dr. Robert P. Knight
of the Austen Riggs Foundation. "Its incidence is the highest
approximately one-halfof all psychiatric disorders among hospitalized

[p. <i>192</i>]

<i>What Is Schizophrenia?</i>


Amid the welter of disagreements as to what schizophrenia is, and
what its causes are, there is a generalized consensus that it involves
a breakdown of personality integration and a resultant loosening of
acquired thought and behavior ties with reality. Certain psychological
testsRorschach, Word Association, Thematic Apperceptionreveal
this loosening of associations with the external environment.


In recent years, many psychiatrists have tended to follow Eugen
Bleuler's lead in differentiating two types of schizophreniaprimary
and secondary. According to this schemata, those aberrations
we identify most readily as schizophrenichallucinations, delusions,
generally regressive behaviorare a secondary overlay of a much
more basic and earlier disintegration of the ego function. The
organicists, who also describe the primary type of schizophrenia as
"nuclear," contend that the disorder must be traced back to fundamental
physiological failures at birth and in very early childhood.


There are theoretical concepts galore, but no definitive data to
buttress these imaginative speculations. We don't have even the most
rudimentary knowledge of the origin and development of schizophrenia
in the human mind and body. As Dr. Frederick C. Redlich
puts it in <i>Psychotherapy with Schizophrenics:</i>


"We do not know whether schizophrenia is an organic illness of
unknown etiology or a behavioral maladjustment brought on by adverse
events in the life history of the individual, as we assume it in
the psychoneuroses. Possibly both assumptions and any combinations
of such assumptions may prove to be correct. We do not even know
whether we are justified in assuming one disorder, as the diagnostic
term implies, or whether there are many different reaction types

[p. <i>193</i>]

<i>The Treatment of Schizophrenia</i>


Despite our lack of fundamental knowledge, we must treat illness
empirically. In organic medicine, we treat diabetes, cancer, high
blood pressure empirically; without precise knowledge of the cause
of the disease, we can still reduce its ravages and keep the patient
functioning.


"The many enthusiastic, frequently uncritical, attempts at treating
schizophrenia represent in part a response to the challenge of the
unknown," writes Dr. Eugene B. Brody. "They are probably also
to a significant degree a function of the tremendous social and economic
pressures under which we labor.... In spite of this urgency,
the fact remains that there is still no generally effective, definite
single therapy of schizophrenia."


<i>Psychotherapy with Schizophrenics</i>


Psychotherapy uses psychological methodssuggestion, persuasion,
psychoanalysis, re-educationin an attempt to bring the schizophrenic
back to reality.


Many of the ardent disciples of Sigmund Freud have ignored the
warnings of the Master as to the inadequacy of psychoanalysis in
treating schizophrenia. On a number of occasions, Freud took pains
to state his belief that analysis did not generate sufficient quantities
of energy to produce profound behavioral changes. In a conversation
with the Minister of Culture of Prussia in 1927, Freud expressed the
hope that future advances in endocrinology would supply the powerful
energies needed, and that then psychotherapy might serve as an
auxiliary handmaiden to this newly developed science.


The psychiatric journals are loaded down each year with scores
of papers by analysts telling of their success in treating schizophrenia.
That they are not "scientific" papers puts the criticism rather
gently. Adequate controls have not been set up, physiological data is
sparse, and the "proof" of the author's hypothesis is frequently one
case told in laborious, jargon-ridden English. At the annual conventions
of the American Psychoanalytical Association, papers running
up to forty pages in length describe a "new" theory of schizophrenia

[p. <i>194</i>]

It is impossible to summarize the vast analytic literature on schizophrenia
in such a limited space. I have been trying valiantly to follow
the bends, twists, and turns of the various schools for the past ten
years, and I confess an inability to bring coherence out of the
semantic and doctrinaire chaos. There are elaborate theories of the
analytic personality required to treat schizophrenia successfully: it
should be passive, not attempting to threaten the defenses of the
schizophrenic, or it should be active and direct (Dr. John Rosen),
setting up a close, empathetic identification with the schizophrenic.
In furthering identification one should use the dream language of
the patient, or one should exchange grunts with the patient (Tidd).


Dr. Gregory Zilboorg warns of the dangers of rational interpretations
to schizophrenic patients, while some of his colleagues persist
in arguing that the adult aspects of the schizophrenic must be appealed
to.


Despite all the frenzied theorizing and all the hostile froth
whipped up every time two schools of psychoanalytic love congregate
in the same room, few would be prepared to dispute Redlich's
conclusion that "actually only a very small fraction of schizophrenic
patients are treated adequately by psychoanalytic therapy at present."


However, one must pay tribute to a small band of dedicated souls
who have devoted years of heart-rending effort in an attempt to
penetrate the schizophrenic's defenses and bring him back to an
adjustment with reality.


Dr. Frieda Fromm-Reichmann and her co-workers at the Chestnut
Lodge Sanitarium in Rockville, Maryland, have done intensive
work with hospitalized schizophrenics. Dr. Fromm-Reichmann's
theories of the basic make-up of the schizophrenic have undergone
major alterations over a period of several decades. In a beautifully
reasoned paper given at the 1954 convention of the American Psychiatric
Association, she stressed the meaningfulness of schizophrenic
symptoms as a point of departure for active therapeutic collaboration
between the patient and the psychiatrist. This is in contrast

[p. <i>195</i>]

Gertrud Schwing, a Swiss analyst who worked for years as a
psychiatric nurse, is widely known for her dedicated work with
schizophrenics. No one can read her <i>A Way to the Soul of the
Mentally Ill</i> and not develop a great respect for her devotion. She
emphasizes the approach of motherlinessthe unselfish giving of
oneself to the patient. She stresses the importance of bridging the
schizophrenic's unbearable loneliness through a meeting of the
therapist's unconscious and the patient's unconscious.


However, these and other attempts to lower the barrier between
the schizophrenic and reality are highly personalized efforts; they
cannot be duplicated on a wide scale. Mrs. Schwing admits that
her patients relapsed after her departure from the hospital. Dedication
is a magnificent thing, but it cannot substitute for scientific
knowledge in treating a malady as universal as schizophrenia.


<i>Physical Treatment of Schizophrenia</i>


In the last fifteen years, several kinds of shock treatment have
been given to schizophrenics. These treatments induce varying
lengths of coma (with or without convulsions) by the introduction
of certain drugs (insulin, metrazol) or by electrical stimulation
applied to the brain through plates attached to the forehead.


Insulin shock, the first of the shock treatments to be widely
used, had all sorts of extravagant claims made for it during the
late thirties and early forties. However, increasing evidence has
borne out the contention that it fails to sustain recoveries in a
great majority of cases. The initial improvement is frequently
considerable; after a series of insulin treatments, the patient will
frequently abandon regressive patterns of behavior and move
dramatically back toward reality. However, over a period of time, the
improvement does not hold up in most cases.


Again we are plagued with a lack of scientific effort in evaluating
therapy. Claims and counterclaims flood the literature, but they are
not of much more value than testimonials for a favorite breakfast
cereal. High recovery rates are claimed for standard, full-coma

[p. <i>196</i>]

In reviewing some of these puffed-up claims in <i>The American
Journal of Psychiatry</i> Drs. D. M. Palmer and T. Riepenhoff wrote:
"Insulin shock treatment is certainly not sufficient as a sole form of
treatment in schizophrenia. It may have more value when used
as a preliminary approach to psychotherapy or milieu therapy. On
the other hand, the low social recovery rate after 40 months
(average) of evaluation is discouraging."


The picture with regard to electroshock is pretty much the
same. There is general agreement that electroshock reduces tension
in some patients, making them more amenable and co-operative.
The Committee on Therapy of the Group for the Advancement
of Psychiatry, in a special report on electroshock, concluded that
it was effective only in cases where the initial prognosis for
recovery was good.


A not very well documented debate has raged over the past few
years as to whether insulin or electroshock is the more effective in
treating schizophrenia. While the general belief is that insulin
shock is more effective, J. K. Morrow and J. P. King, in a limited
follow-up study of shock-treated patients, found very little difference
between the two. Not one whit daunted, partisans of the various
treatments flood the technical journals with graph-laden papers
"proving" their particular technique to be the best. Dr. Eugene
Brody sums up the futility of the debate in these words:


"In spite of the fact that it is becoming increasingly evident
that the schizophrenic patients who respond to electroshock (as
well as to insulin) are predominantly those exhibiting favorable
prognostic indications, controversy continues regarding technique,
frequency, number of shocks, and the actual character of the
electrical impulse that is used."


Parenthetically, the evaluations of the new drugs are geared
to avoid these pitfalls. As Dr. Henry Brill of New York State
noted in his testimony before the U.S. Senate, rigid controls and
wide sampling were continually neglected in evaluating the shock
treatments. As pointed out in previous sections of this book,
drug evaluation projects have already covered thousands of patients

[p. <i>197</i>]

<i>Psychosurgery</i>


Psychosurgery is brain surgery performed for the relief of
severe mental symptoms. Prefrontal lobotomy, the first and most
drastic of the surgical procedures, cut the white nerve fibers
connecting the frontal lobe of the brain with the thalamus. It
was a rather crude operation. A hole was drilled in the skull and
a leucotome (tube) through which a wire was passed cut the
nerve fibers. Since the operator was forced to manipulate the
tube blindly, frequently much more cortical tissue was cut out than
necessary.


Starting in 1947, prefrontal lobotomy has been increasingly
supplanted by topectomy, an operation developed by the Columbia-Greystone
group. In this much more precise operation, the approach
is from above the cortexthe brain surface is exposed and certain
prefrontal areas are removed.


These psychosurgical procedures have a common rationale. In
mental illness, it is thought the balance between the prefrontal
cerebral cortex, controlling ideas, and the thalamus, controlling
emotions, is upset. If the fibers connecting the thalamus with the
prefrontal cortex are cut, the thalamus can no longer charge a
patient's ideas with symptom-producing emotions.


Since the inception of these operations, the invective has flown
high, wide, and handsome among the pro and the anti groups.
In an effort to clear the air, the National Mental Health Institute
sponsored three annual research conferences on psychosurgery. A
careful reading of the proceedings of these conferences is <i>not</i>
conducive to improving one's mental health. True, the experts
assembled at the three enormously long gabfests do make feeble

[p. <i>198</i>]

The consensus seems to be that psychosurgery makes patients
more socially acceptable; it reduces anxiety and painful discomfort
from past emotions and associations. It does not seem to reduce
the intellectual ability of the patients. However, its critics argue
that it brings about a general depersonalizationa loss of the
capacity to feel.


<i>New Research Leads Against Schizophrenia</i>


When one turns to the more recent research projects upon
schizophrenia, most of them concentrated within the past five years,
the picture brightens considerably. There is a determination on the
part of most of the investigators to renounce the inflated claims of
the past and to set up scientifically controlled experiments to
test their hypotheses. A sizable portion of the projects are attempts
to trace the organic changes produced by schizophrenia. Despite
the difficulty of these endeavors, there is an air of optimism about
this new crop of investigatorsa refreshing contrast to the pessimism
prevalent a few years back whenever anyone suggested the possibility
of developing a rational treatment for schizophrenia based
upon known cause and predicted effect.


In 1953, for example, the National Institute of Mental Health
awarded thirty-five separate research grants for projects on schizophrenia.
Causes, diagnosis, and treatment are being investigated
by psychiatrists, psychologists, pharmacologists, biochemists, neurophysiologists,
and others. The studies are being done at the
Institute's Clinical Center in Bethesda, Maryland, and at state
hospitals, clinics, universities, and other research centers throughout
the country.


One of the most interesting lines of research endeavor is the
experimental reproduction of a schizophrenic-like state in normal
persons through the use of various drugs. The very fact that drugs
can produce such a state in mentally healthy personalities is a strong
argument for some chemical causative factor in schizophrenia.


Earlier experiments on the induction of psychosis used the drug
mescaline, a derivative of a Mexican cactus commonly known
as peyote. Normal persons given mescaline reported depersonalization

[p. <i>199</i>]

Within the past few years, a new drug, lysergic acid, diethylamide-25
(LSD), has proved much more satisfactory. It is effective in as
small dosages as one half-millionth of a gram per kilogram of body
weight. It is tasteless and, mixed with water, is easily taken by
mouth.


Several research projects involving the use of LSD are in
operation at the present time. At the National Institute of Mental
Health, Drs. Charles Savage and Edward Evarts are studying,
under controlled conditions, the chemical changes produced in the
healthy body by the administration of LSD. Also at Bethesda,
Dr. Louis Cholden is experimenting with administration of LSD
to chronic deteriorated schizophrenics.


The most intensive work on lysergic acid is being done at the
Boston Psychopathic Hospital. Since 1949, staff workers have taken
the drug themselves and have administered it to more than one
hundred normal volunteers. Psychiatrists have made careful observations
of their own experiences and feelings after taking the drug.
The data they have gathered is invaluable in enabling them to
see the schizophrenic patient as he sees himself, particularly since
the patient is rarely able to communicate his inner experiences
and feelings.


In a summary report to the 1954 convention of the American
Psychiatric Association, Dr. Max Rinkel of the Boston group
had this to say about the group's theory of schizophrenia:


"Our intensive studies of the LSD effect, which comprised
clinical and sociological psychiatric observations, psychological tests,
physiological examinations of the nervous system, and biochemical
investigations, have resulted in reflections on a new chemical theory
of mental illness. According to this theory, one of the important
factors in the causation of mental illness seems to be a chemical
which originates in the human body itself. This chemical may
be adrenoxine, an intermediary product in the decomposition

[p. <i>200</i>]

"Our studies have placed mental illness again in the realm of
the diseases of disturbed chemical metabolism," Dr. Rinkel concluded.
"More studies will help further to pinpoint the noxious
agent, until its final discovery will lead to the development of
the successful pharmacological prevention and treatment of mankind's
greatest plague, insanity."


Before this final discovery, however, much more basic research
work must be done. At the Milbank Conference on the Biology
of Mental Health and Disease, Dr. Paul Hoch of the New York
Psychiatric Institute, who has done considerable work in the
experimental induction of psychoses, pointed out that "comparative
drug studies in untreated and treated patients will have to be
extensively undertaken in order to assess the different treatment
methods used in psychiatry today in relationship to the alterations
they produce." Dr. Harry C. Solomon, Medical Director of Boston
Psychopathic, called for "the collaboration of our chemical associates
in order to show whether certain syndromes which result from
the use of a drug are characteristic of changes in the enzyme
(organic compound) systems that are produced by that particular
drug." In a subsequent chapter, studies of changes in the enzyme
system will be discussed.


A number of additional research projects are being conducted
along biochemical lines. Drs. Norman P. Goldstein and Marian Kies
have reported on experiments at the National Institute of Mental
Health which indicate an increase in the antidiuretic (urine-checking)
substance of the blood in response to harmful stimuli.
This is being tested with normal and schizophrenic individuals.
The investigators feel that the antidiuretic hormone may be an
important link in the organism's response to stress.


At the Einstein Medical Center in Philadelphia, Drs. William
Sacks and Henry A. Shenkin are investigating one of the most

[p. <i>201</i>]

Several studies are concentrating on the adrenal glands (situated
near the kidneys). At the University of Utah, Drs. C. H. Hardin
Branch and Leo T. Samuels are studying the effects of stress and
electroconvulsive therapy on the activity of the adrenal cortex
(outer wall of the gland). At the Worcester Foundation for
Experimental Biology, Dr. Hudson Hoagland and his associates
have developed new chemical procedures to isolate and separate
nearly fifty hormones produced by the adrenal gland and to
analyze for quantities as small as one microgram (1/30,000,000 of
an ounce).


Dr. Carl Pfeiffer of the University of Illinois College of Medicine
is studying the possible occurrence of convulsive metabolic products
which are of causative significance in epilepsy. If identified, their
convulsive properties might also prove useful in the treatment
of schizophrenic patients.


Along psychological lines, there are a number of significant experiments
being carried out. At Duke University, Dr. Eliot
Rodnick and his associates are studying the relation between
motivation and the withdrawal behavior characteristic of schizophrenia
in an effort to find out how schizophrenic disturbances in
thought behavior develop.


Dr. Joseph Zubin of the New York Psychiatric Institute is
testing the relation between perception and the ability to think
abstractly. He is attempting to relate this knowledge to the development
of a technique for determining whether a schizophrenic
patient is likely to improve under psychiatric therapy.


At the National Institute of Mental Health, Drs. Juliana Day and
Irving M. Ryckoff are studying both acutely ill schizophrenic adolescents
and their mothers, gathering pertinent data regarding onset
of the illness and the nature of the significant relationships within
which specific symptoms appeared. The adolescents are hospitalized
and the mothers are seen as outpatients.


The role of psychologically traumatic events in the causation of

[p. <i>202</i>]

Dr. Theodore Lidz of the Yale University School of Medicine is
studying the family environment of adult schizophrenics in an attempt
to correlate patterns of development, personality, and pathological
reactions.


<i>A Multidisciplinary Attack upon Schizophrenia</i>


Down at Tulane University in New Orleans, Dr. Robert G. Heath
has launched a massive research project built around a new theory
of schizophrenia. His six-hundred-page book, <i>Studies in Schizophrenia</i>,
is a painstaking report on one of the most courageous and
promising endeavors in the annals of modern psychiatry.


At the root of all Heath's work is a clear-cut operational concept
of schizophrenia. Along with Eugen Bleuler, Heath argues that the
attack must be made on <i>basic</i> schizophrenia, which underlies all the
later secondary symptoms which Kraepelin first described as "dementia
praecox."


"As a result of experience in psychoanalysis and in intensive psychiatric
observation and treatment, more persons are tending to
accept Bleuler's concept that a primary disease process is present
long before the Kraepelinian symptoms of dementia praecox appear,"
Heath writes. "Several investigators are attempting to learn
more about the nature of this basic disease process. Clinical observations,
as well as increasing experience with unhospitalized patients,
have made it quite apparent that disordered behavior begins very
earlyin fact, as far back as observations are valid. It is assumed by
many that the disease process is either present at birth or results from
early environmental trauma."


This disease process is manifested in basic deficiencies in the
ability to feel (emotions) from early infancy. This results in maladaptation
in the inability of the organism to handle stressful experiences.
Heath agrees with Cannon and Selye in relating this
maladaptation, in part, to failure of the key glands to perform adequately
under situations of severe stress.


But Heath goes a step further. His experiments have led him to
the belief that there are certain nerve pathways to and from the
brain which play a key role in the individual's adaptation to stress.

[p. <i>203</i>]

"The points to be stressed here are that the greatest inhibition on
motor performance was found among retarded schizophrenic patients,"
Heath writes in the brilliant introductory chapter of his
<i>Studies in Schizophrenia</i>. "This is the group which showed chemical
evidence of underactivity of the stress mechanism and which, when
examined psychiatrically by introspective techniques, also showed
a marked disturbance in basic affect [emotion]."


Heath then goes on to conjecture that certain of these nerve pathways
facilitate mental and bodily processes (facilitatory circuits)
while other pathways suppress activity (inhibitory circuits).


To test his theory, Heath assembled a remarkable interdisciplinary
team of psychiatrists, psychologists, neurologists, biochemists, neurosurgeons,
electronic engineers, photographers, etc. A number of the
team, including Heath, were veterans of the Columbia-Greystone
psychosurgery projects. The assembling of such a magnificent group
is a rarity in modern psychiatric researchmost of it is done with
spit, polish, and glue.


The first experiments were conducted on animals. Into the brains
of these animals were inserted fine electrodes that made possible the
recording of electrical impulses from selected areas of the brain.
The findings bore out the theory of facilitatory and inhibitory circuits.
When stimulation was applied to the region associated with
facilitatory nerve pathways, the animals became very alert and active.
When applied to the region associated with inhibitory circuits, the
animals became sleepy. Important biochemical patterns were also
observed with changes in stimulation.


The experiments were then extended to hospital patients. The
group consisted of twenty deteriorated schizophrenics, all but one
of whom had received extensive shock and other treatments during
their long periods of hospitalization. Electrodes, which could be removed
at any time, were implanted in deep areas of the brain. The
patients were then given a mild electrical stimulation (producing no
convulsions as in the cruder electroshock). In experiments preliminary
to administration of the mild stimulation, investigators noted
in the schizophrenic patients a physiological abnormality which

[p. <i>204</i>]

Under stimulation, many of the patients who had been stuporous
and mute showed dramatic changes in emotional responsiveness. A
number exhibited anger and rage, verbalizing hostilities which had
been bottled up within them for long periods of time. Dr. Heath
has recorded a number of these remarkable changes on films made
before and after electrical stimulation of patients. No one who has
seen these films can fail to be impressed with this evidence of the
importance of basic nerve pathways in influencing emotional responsivity.


Of the nineteen patients remaining in the group after one death
in no way related to the experimental proceduresten were able
to leave the hospital. While this is a remarkable showing, especially
in view of the fact that the prognosis for all of them was exceedingly
poor, Dr. Heath cautions that there must be many more tests and
follow-ups before any major therapeutic claims can be made.


At a symposium on the experimental work of Heath and the
Tulane group held at New Orleans in June, 1952, many of the
country's leading psychiatrists, neurologists, and anatomists gathered
together to evaluate the early findings. Dr. Heath discussed with
them the need for improved techniques of implanting electrodes accurately
and described his recent use of a mechanical means (stereotaxic
apparatus) to increase the possibility of precise implantation.


There was general agreement among the scientists attending the
New Orleans Symposium that Heath's experiments were enormously
significant in forwarding knowledge of the basic organic maladaptations
present in schizophrenia. Dr. Herbert S. Gaskill, Professor
of Psychiatry at the Indiana University School of Medicine, summed
up the feeling in these words:


"Dr. Heath and his associates have presented a new therapeutic
approach to the treatment of schizophrenia.... The clinical aspects
of this therapeutic approach are impressive. After having heard a
discussion of die clinical results, seen a number of patients in sound
film, preand post-operatively, and subsequently interviewed a
number of these patients themselves, and finally to have participated
in an actual operative and stimulation procedure, leaves little doubt
in our minds that something fundamental happens to the patient.
The withdrawn, affectless individual whose thinking is so autistic

[p. <i>205</i>]

And Dr. George C. Ham, Professor of Psychiatry at the University
of North Carolina Medical School, pointed up the real importance
of the team concept in modern psychiatric research in commenting
on the rare qualities of the Tulane study.


"The fact that the concept grew out of the collaboration of many
different disciplines and approaches, was developed through animal
experimentation and shown to occur in man, was in itself an example
of a beautifully conducted piece of scientific reasoning and study,"
said Dr. Ham.


But we need fiftynay, a hundredmore team attacks of the
Tulane type if we are to pinpoint the cause-and-effect relationships
in schizophrenia. If the money is provided, the men will come. All of
Heath's work since 1950 has cost only a few hundred thousand
dollars, most of it supplied by the Commonwealth Fund. Yet with
this small amount of money he has built up a superb investigative
team. Right in the Louisiana state hospitals where Heath has done
some of his work, the budget for the care of schizophrenics runs to
several millions a year, an ever-increasing drain upon the resources
of the state.

