TRANSCRIPT OF AUDIO FILE:
______________________________________________________________________________
BEGIN TRANSCRIPT:
THERAPIST: Hi.
CLIENT: Hi.
THERAPIST: Sorry about yesterday.
CLIENT: No problem.
THERAPIST: No, everyone's changing their time, and I was like -
CLIENT: I know, it's wicked confusing. And we did it like at the last possible second too.
THERAPIST: Yeah, that's okay. How are you doing?
CLIENT: It's so cold and windy.
THERAPIST: I know. It's supposed to get worse this weekend.
CLIENT: I know.
THERAPIST: I'm not happy about that.
CLIENT: I know. But it's winter, what are you going to do?
THERAPIST: I was hoping for March sooner, but I guess -
CLIENT: You what?
THERAPIST: Hoping for March to come sooner.
CLIENT: I know. It never does.
THERAPIST: So, how did your week go?
CLIENT: Good. I don't really have any like major complaints. I feel like I'm not sure I - I accomplished my homework completely, like -
THERAPIST: Sure.
CLIENT: But I have been trying with other things. So, I feel like it's a work in progress.
THERAPIST: Why don't you describe?
CLIENT: Like I - maybe I don't think I've said, like, "I'm so happy that you're here." Because I've said that before and I just feel awkward saying it again. And then - I forgot what the other thing was. Oh, "I really love being with you." I said - I remember saying - this was all - this was like Thursday or something, the second I came home - a variation of that, but it wasn't exact so I would count that as half homework.
THERAPIST: Okay, and what was his response?
CLIENT: It's like never - like it's never like a response, like a verbal response. It's more like an affection or like whatever. Which I can tolerate. And I do tell myself before saying something that I'm not going to get a response back or I might not. So it's not -
THERAPIST: So you weren't upset.
CLIENT: I'm not all - Yeah, I'm not upset.
THERAPIST: Really?
CLIENT: Yeah, really, actually.
(Buzzing)
THERAPIST: Oh, I'm so sorry.
CLIENT: No, no problem.
THERAPIST: So, when you didn't get a response you weren't upset.
CLIENT: No.
THERAPIST: But you also are kind of doing it very tentatively too.
CLIENT: Tentatively because -
THERAPIST: Is he normally - Is Fernão (ph) normally affectionate?
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: So him giving -
CLIENT: He's pretty affectionate.
THERAPIST: Is he as - Is he as affectionate as you would like him to be?
CLIENT: (pause) Yeah. I'm not - I don't feel like neglected in that area.
(0:02:00)
THERAPIST: So him giving - I hate - does your phone - like does it vibrate after? Like reminder?
CLIENT: Yeah, I know.
THERAPIST: (Laughs)
CLIENT: The thing is that sometimes I feel like he - like it's difficult for me to say things because of me, yeah. Because I have a little bit of an issue with communication or whatever. But I do feel like he's also doesn't seem so open to it. Not because he doesn't want to hear it or whatever, but I think he's just not used to it so it's like weird for him to have to be like, "You're so wonderful." You know? Like, because he's used to being told he's like a piece of shit. So, you know. So, that's another reason why it's a little bit difficult, I think. Because even when I want to be serious sometimes, which is difficult for me he will sometimes be silly because he's like feels awkward.
THERAPIST: (inaudible at 0:02:52)
CLIENT: You know, which is fine.
THERAPIST: But you already said you don't expect him to give the right response anyway.
CLIENT: Right, right.
THERAPIST: So, it's still your -
CLIENT: It's not such a big deal. It really isn't.
THERAPIST: Yeah? But you know what's funny is that you said, "So, I said it." Like you got it out of the way. You said it once.
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: But I have a question for you. If someone - even if he were to say - or if someone says, "You look pretty today Laura."
CLIENT: Yeah, I'm the same way he is.
THERAPIST: Do you need it - No, I recognize that hurt, but let me finish.
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: If I said you look pretty today and you were feeling like you look like a piece of shit, and I know that - I'm not saying you look like a -
CLIENT: No, no, I can totally -
THERAPIST: But I know that you have some self esteem issues and things like that. And you generally, sometimes don't feel very good about the way you're looking. Or sometimes we just - we all go through that.
CLIENT: Right.
THERAPIST: But I think, you would probably go - if I said, "Oh, Laura you look really nice today." Maybe you'd think about it, but maybe it would just go in one ear and out the other. What do you think? Especially if it's not something you believe.
CLIENT: I think that I - because you're not the kind of person who says, "You look really nice, I really like your shoes. I really like whatever." Besides, you know people like that.
(0:04:03)
CLIENT: I would actually, really...
THERAPIST: Okay, so it would mean something from me.
CLIENT: ...appreciate that.
THERAPIST: But what about something from like your mom?
CLIENT: If she said what?
THERAPIST: Like, "You look -" does she say you look really nice all the time?
CLIENT: No.
THERAPIST: Okay.
CLIENT: So I also would appreciate it.
THERAPIST: ...Appreciate it.
CLIENT: She does once in a while.
THERAPIST: Okay, I just think that sometimes, because you're saying, "Oh, I said it once to Fernão (ph) therefore I've said it."
CLIENT: Right.
THERAPIST: But sometimes if you don't - if you really strongly don't accept something or - not that he doesn't accept that you don't love him, but [don't think about something - suppose hearing it once -] (ph)
CLIENT: No, it's true.
THERAPIST: ...might not mean a lot because it is something he's so unfamiliar with.
CLIENT: Yeah. I will tell you, it is really - I noticed this week that it is really difficult for me to express my - whether it is because of his the way he is, or just me, or a combination. It's really difficult for me to say anything.
THERAPIST: But something that you do really want from him is more verbal -
CLIENT: Yeah, so I want to work on it.
THERAPIST: Expression.
CLIENT: But I'm just acknowledging that it's difficult.
THERAPIST: It is really difficult.
CLIENT: It's really difficult.
THERAPIST: So, what's the most - is it - it's the rejection that we talked about?
CLIENT: I guess like bottom line it's the rejection but, I mean, the way that I feel is kind of it's just like it's not the right moment like it doesn't seem like - we're watching basketball, is this the right time? Like he seems like to be in a silly mood. Is he even going to listen? Sometimes I'm not - It's not that he's the kind of person who like never listens to me if I talk. If I talk he listens, but - You know, it's like what you said. Like, if you hear it and you're just like - I don't know. I guess it's a reaction.
THERAPIST: So you're kind of always searching for the right time.
CLIENT: Yeah. And it -
THERAPIST: What if you said it at the wrong time?
CLIENT: Well, then I feel like if I say it at the wrong time it won't be as effective. So why bother? That's my thought.
THERAPIST: If it's not effective, why bother?
CLIENT: Right.
THERAPIST: Well, remember we talked about the benefits for you?
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: It has?
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: Right? What are the benefits for you?
CLIENT: Yeah. It does. It's true.
(0:06:00)
THERAPIST: That it will help you become a more expressive person. He'll probably hear it and maybe become more comfortable with it.
CLIENT: But the thing is that when I feel like it's not effective it's like he's not taking it - whatever. And also I'm not saying it in the best way because it's not the best situation. You know, like, it's on me too. That's the way I feel.
THERAPIST: Well, I think because you haven't said it for so long it's now turned into this big deal, as opposed to if he moved here and you said "I love you" every day - It wouldn't be that big of a deal, right?
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: So, it's turned into (yawn) - I'm so sorry but (inaudible at 0:06:36) all day.
CLIENT: No, don't worry.
THERAPIST: It's turned into this thing for you to say.
CLIENT: But it's not just that.
THERAPIST: Searching for the right time.
CLIENT: That's like the extreme. It's like anything. Like, and the truth is actually I can think of at least one time this week where it was the right time to say something and I don't think I said anything.
THERAPIST: Because the right time is really just a procrastination tool.
CLIENT: Yeah, yeah.
THERAPIST: You're putting it off. So, I don't think really have accepted the fact. Because if you're searching for the right time, also you're hoping for the right response. You say, "I don't think it's going to have the right effect."
CLIENT: Yeah, I mean, that's what I mean. At the bottom of my mind he needs to -
THERAPIST: What effect is this going to have? You said you don't expect anything from him.
CLIENT: Right.
THERAPIST: But a hug back.
CLIENT: Or nothing. I mean he could just be nothing.
THERAPIST: So you still are expecting something or else, though, you wouldn't say -
CLIENT: Yeah. Yeah.
THERAPIST: Laura, how hard would it be to have a conversation that you would like him to verbally express himself to you?
CLIENT: What do you mean?
THERAPIST: To say that to him? "I would really sometimes want to know how you feel and seeing it and feeling it physically is not always enough. I really wish you could tell me more." That maybe you would say "we" could talk more about it.
CLIENT: But then do I have the right to say that if I don't verbally express myself in the best way either?
THERAPIST: Well, what about changing it to "We don't verbally express ourselves as much as I think it would be nice."?
CLIENT: Okay.
THERAPIST: "Do you think we could sit down and have a talk about our relationship?"
(8:00)
CLIENT: That's scary.
THERAPIST: That's scary because?
CLIENT: Well, because if something was said that I didn't like so - anything, any little thing, I'm not sure, like - I don't even know what could be said because I think based upon just actions alone it's pretty obvious that we're both happy. At least were it is. And maybe just unsure of the future, which is fine. But yeah, I guess I'm afraid of the response.
THERAPIST: So, what are the consequences that could come out of it?
CLIENT: I could -
THERAPIST: The realistic ones? You could have your feelings hurt.
CLIENT: Yeah, I could have my feelings hurt by hearing things I don't like.
THERAPIST: Like what?
CLIENT: Well, number one, more realistic is that it probably wouldn't happen to that extent where I'd even have my feelings hurt because he's really not -
THERAPIST: He's not verbally expressive, he'll just say nothing.
CLIENT: Right, he's not, and that's really the truth. Like he could - I mean - I don't know. He hasn't even said like - although I don't know who at this stage would be like, "I really like you." Because it's obvious. But I don't know. Nothing. Like, "I care about you so much." And something else that relates to that, and that's why he was saying it. You know what I mean? Like, whatever. I don't know.
THERAPIST: So, the consequences are he could say, still, nothing at all.
CLIENT: Yeah, nothing or be annoyed about it.
THERAPIST: Would he be annoyed? Is that like him?
CLIENT: I don't know, I feel like the last time that I said that was a fight, but it could be because the way I said it wasn't nice, probably was the reason. But then I feel like, am I being too demanding? Like is this too demanding?
THERAPIST: How long have you guys been together?
CLIENT: Seven months.
(0:10:00)
THERAPIST: If the man needs to end (ph) the relationship that's been on seven months to talk about how you feel about each other -
CLIENT: I guess not.
THERAPIST: What would you say to a friend who said this?
CLIENT: No, I'd say you have the right. But -
THERAPIST: You're right, you could get an answer that you don't like. But realistically you'll - he could say, just kind of nothing. Nod it off. He could be annoyed by it.
CLIENT: Yeah, it's less likely that he'd be annoyed.
THERAPIST: I guess there's a chance it could be the end of the relationship, but you don't think it's a real realistic chance, do you? If you said, "I want to talk about how we feel about one another"?
CLIENT: No, because if the subject came up of, "Do I love you" or "do whatever" I think the worst thing that he might say, based upon the e-mail that I read that I shouldn't have, and his actions after - which his feelings seem to have grown stronger since that moment. I think the worst thing that I could hear is "I think I might be in love with you, but I'm not sure."
THERAPIST: So, that's the worst thing?
CLIENT: I think. But I don't know. It seems that -
THERAPIST: Okay, and I mean you're a person that really goes for the worst that things are going to happen.
CLIENT: That's true. I mean, if anyone could think of the worst possible outcome -
THERAPIST: So if that's the worst thing that could happen, could you stand that? Could you tolerate that?
CLIENT: I could, I would be disappointed. No doubt. But I wouldn't be - what's the irrational -
THERAPIST: Devastated, awful.
CLIENT: Devastated. I wouldn't be devastated because I have an idea that that's probably the situation still anyway. And I've somewhat accepted it because I know the way he is and his background and whatever.
THERAPIST: And you know some of that is just who he is and he might take longer than most people.
CLIENT: Yeah, right, exactly. And I've accepted that. It does scare me still though.
THERAPIST: Even if he was confused about his feelings for you but still knew that he cared about you a lot would it not be nice just to hear that he cares about you a lot since he hasn't said that yet? I mean it's pretty obvious he cares about you a lot.
(0:12:02)
CLIENT: Yeah, yeah. That's the thing, but it's true. I mean -
THERAPIST: But it means something to you to hear it.
CLIENT: It would, and like the thing is it's true that actions speak louder than words. But like, you know?
THERAPIST: Words are nice.
CLIENT: Yeah, sometimes. It doesn't have to be every day every second. But -
THERAPIST: I think you're pretty not demanding when it comes to that.
CLIENT: Yeah, it's true. It's just that I don't know how to go about, because I'm not that good at this either - like, if I said, I could say -
THERAPIST: Hold on, before we move on to ways to do it, because I think that that is a good idea to practice here. But, so, the worst case scenario is really that he'll just say, "I'm not sure. I care about you, but I'm not sure if I love you."
CLIENT: Right.
THERAPIST: Okay, what are the positive things that could come out of this?
CLIENT: Well, I mean, a lot of things. He could say a lot of things that - I mean, I probably would have thought, but I didn't - I wouldn't know unless he said it, you know? I could have guessed, I mean. But it would be nice to hear it. You know? A lot of things.
THERAPIST: So the positive things are that he would know that this is something that's important to you?
CLIENT: Right, well, that's number one.
THERAPIST: Even if he said nothing, and said, "I'm not really ready to talk about it now. Can we talk about it tomorrow?"
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: You've still gotten your message out there that this is something - because I think this is something with you.
CLIENT: It's really important for me. And it's becoming more and more important. And I think the only time I'm upset about the relationship that I have with him is when I think about how we don't communicate our feelings to each other. It's the only time. There's nothing else bad about it.
THERAPIST: So, it sounds like it's a pretty big roadblock.
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: So, it could help remove this roadblock. It could help move it a little bit. Micro movements, right?
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: You could get some wonderful news in your relationship. You could feel a lot more confident about the future of the relationship. The main consequence that you have is that you'd feel embarrassed.
(0:14:00)
THERAPIST: And he might say what you already think, which is something that you feel like you could tolerate and live with, for now.
CLIENT: Yeah. It's just that -
THERAPIST: Another benefit is that you're asserting yourself so that you don't put yourself in a situation where you erupt later. Asking for what you want. You're not demanding it, you're asking.
CLIENT: Right. No, it's true.
THERAPIST: Do you have the right to ask for what you want?
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: You sure?
CLIENT: Yeah. I am sure.
THERAPIST: You? You deserve to ask for what you want?
CLIENT: Yeah, even me, alright. Even me.
(Laughter)
CLIENT: No, but I do think that I have the right to ask. I don't want to be demanding about it. That's the thing, but I don't feel like saying that would be demanding, actually.
THERAPIST: You just said I don't think seven months to ask how you feel about the relationship is demanding.
CLIENT: I said that because if you, like saw us together and like you were always in the room like a little fly or whatever on the wall and you saw everything you'd be like it's obvious to how much this person cares about you. And there's no reason for you to doubt it. So that's why I think maybe it's demanding. Because not everyone can express themselves the way that you want them to. However, I think it's important whether you are good at communicating or not, like me, that you have to try. Because a relationship without verbal communication - I mean, right now it can survive and be fine, but like, if we did stay together -
THERAPIST: And regardless this is something that's important to you.
CLIENT: Right, and that's really important to me.
THERAPIST: And in a relationship that you are in you have a right to at least ask for the things that you think would make you happy.
CLIENT: Right.
THERAPIST: You don't have to get them. But if you don't get them you can make a decision from there.
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: So, what would a conversation like this be?
(0:16:00)
CLIENT: I was just thinking about that. Like if I said, "Look, I think that -" or "I would really like if we could express our feelings about each other to each other, you know, more often or now, or whatever."
THERAPIST: So, maybe that would be something because I think that's something that you catch up on the past with doing. You like do the "Maybe sometime we could clean the apartment some time."
CLIENT: Yeah, which I'm still angry about.
THERAPIST: I think, "Do you have some time to talk right now?"
CLIENT: Okay. Yeah, I can do that.
THERAPIST: And then, when he says yes then it's - we're talking about this now.
CLIENT: I think I would like to say - here's what I'd like to say. You can tell me if it's - if it needs work or whatever. I'd like to say, "Do you have some time to talk?" Fine. "You know, it's really important to me - It's really important to me that we are able to communicate to each other and I think that we do a great job, like through actions and whatever. It's clear that we both care about each other, but I think that it's really important - " and actually I have to tell you that he does also think that communication is extremely important although he's not good at it, so I don't think that he'd be adverse to this. But, I would say, "It's really important to me that we express the way that we feel about each other to each other. It doesn't have to be every day, or every second, but once in a while I think that it's important. Although it scares me once in a while, then, whatever. Let's just - "
THERAPIST: You would probably like it...
CLIENT: I would like it...
THERAPIST: frequently.
CLIENT: ...as long as it's positive...
THERAPIST: (laughs)
CLIENT: comments, but -
THERAPIST: So, you don't have to say that it doesn't have to be every day. You can just say "I want to do this." I think it sounded really, really good. If I could maybe if I was like an editor the only thing - I wouldn't take anything out. It all sounded very good. The only thing that I was thinking that you might want to say in the beginning if it was like me who was saying it, to acknowledge your part in - because perhaps it could be taken as blame -
(0:18:08)
CLIENT: You're - yeah.
THERAPIST: So, you could say something in the beginning, "I know that I'm not very good at this either." Or "I haven't done this a lot either, but I was thinking that I think it would be really good for our relationship to express ourselves more." But to take some responsibility -
CLIENT: Actually, in some ways this really excites me. Like, I feel like this will be really good, but on the other hand I have the irrational devil telling me that all the bad things that could happen.
THERAPIST: But you just said the bad things that could happen - or is the irrational devil telling you more than -
CLIENT: Yeah, now the irrational devil is telling me that like -
THERAPIST: He's going to break up with you?
CLIENT: Well, the things is that's so irrational that - but still it's like, "Well, it could happen."
THERAPIST: It is a possibility. Would you want to be with some freak show that breaks up with you because you asked to have a conversation?
CLIENT: No. No.
THERAPIST: Is that like husband material?
CLIENT: No.
THERAPIST: No? He's not going to be the one to help you raise your kid?
CLIENT: No, I don't think so.
THERAPIST: Because you have a discussion?
CLIENT: No.
THERAPIST: So, that might be a blessing if you need to -
CLIENT: Yeah, I guess so.
THERAPIST: If he runs off at this point, right?
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: What's another? I mean, that's pretty much the worst the irrational devil could tell you.
CLIENT: Yeah, or that - what the irrational devil is telling me is that -
THERAPIST: I think Albert Ellis would like this.
CLIENT: - that he might say why things that I really - you know, the truth, and how he really feels. And I might really like it even if it's not exactly perfect or whatever. But then he might think about it later and be like, "Well, I don't know. Do I really feel that way?" and then he might realize later due to our conversation that he doesn't really feel the way that he thought, and the way that he told me.
THERAPIST: Has that happened to you ever? Where you've said, like, "I love you" and you've been -
CLIENT: It's like, it's weird that I have so little faith in other people. Like, he's so dumb that he doesn't know how he feels while he's saying it.
(0:20:00)
THERAPIST: Well, you don't think he's going to lie, you think he's just stupid.
CLIENT: No, he will not lie.
THERAPIST: (Laughs)
CLIENT: I'm telling you. There's no chance he'll lie.
THERAPIST: You think he just might be confused and say -
CLIENT: Maybe. I mean, he seems to be so -
THERAPIST: And think that he likes you one second and then decides that he doesn't really later. And you think that this is going to be the catalyst for him to figure this all out? Does he not have this opportunity all the time?
CLIENT: Yeah, yeah he does.
THERAPIST: And if he wanted out of the relationship now I guess it could be a good opportunity to get out, right?
CLIENT: But -
THERAPIST: But if he wanted to get out of the relationship wouldn't you want to know?
CLIENT: Yeah, and the thing is like with this particular person I don't have any doubt that if he wanted out of this relationship or even if he was considering it he would in some ways let me know. Like he's not a great communicator but he's like brutally honest sometimes. Like he's not afraid to tell you how he's feeling if it's important when it needs to be said.
THERAPIST: Okay, so, there are all these irrational devil comments. And they're going to keep happening. So do you know how to combat them to do what you think is important in the long term?
CLIENT: I don't think so.
THERAPIST: Why don't, I'll be the irrational devil. And you can be the rational angel.
CLIENT: Okay. (chuckles)
THERAPIST: And you're going to dispute me. Okay, so, why don't you say what you want to say? Or what we - tell me what you're going to do.
CLIENT: What do you mean?
THERAPIST: Just like, "I'm going to go tell Fernão (ph) - "
CLIENT: Oh, okay. I'm going to - I'm going to try to sit down with Fernão (ph) and talk about our feelings about each other.
THERAPIST: Do you really think that's a good idea?
CLIENT: Okay, so if I'm disputing you then, for example, what am I supposed to say? Like why wouldn't it be a good idea, or -
THERAPIST: Yeah. What you think is the rational side, and I'm going to be completely irrational.
CLIENT: Okay, well, why wouldn't it be a good idea?
(0:22:00)
THERAPIST: Well, he might - you might be a catalyst for him to change his mind about you.
CLIENT: But don't you think that - that's real complicated, because, I mean, it wouldn't be a catalyst but - well, don't you think that it's possible he's been thinking these things all the time? I mean, that's bad because that means that I'm agreeing with the devil. Why would this be a catalyst? Why would this expressing yourselves and the way you feel about each other when it's clear that we care about each other be a catalyst?
THERAPIST: Well, you've never made him really sit down and think about this before. This could -
CLIENT: But do I have to make him sit down and think about it for him to think about it?
THERAPIST: Maybe he's never really thought about it before and he actually doesn't love you? And then suddenly he'll realize it and leave.
CLIENT: But do you think it's really possible that this person who thinks about things all the time hasn't thought about our relationship before?
THERAPIST: Well, what if he - what if he tells you that he just likes you a lot and thinks this relationship is fun?
CLIENT: (laughs) Well, I mean, do you think that people who are just interested in relationships for fun would be living with someone else and planning on moving with moving to another city with someone else?
THERAPIST: They might. What if he did?
CLIENT: I don't know what to say to that?
THERAPIST: What's the rational that you know?
CLIENT: Well, if that was true would it really be the end of the world?
THERAPIST: Tell me it's not. You're not asking me. You're asking the irrational devil. You need to tell me.
CLIENT: You would say yeah. I don't think it would be the end of the world anyway if we had a really good relationship that both of us realized in the end realized was just for fun - was just fun.
(0:24:03)
THERAPIST: Or? How about even if it was over I know it wouldn't be the end of the world?
CLIENT: And even if it was over I know it wouldn't be the end of the world.
THERAPIST: I think you need to say your rational (inaudible at 0:24:18) with a little (inaudible at 0:24:20) than "I think...don't you think? Don't you think devil? Tell me it's not devil, please!"
(laughter)
THERAPIST: I think you did some good jobs disputing. So, this is what you do with yourself, you know? Did I bring up a new thought that the -
CLIENT: I was thinking about the devil and he is always so strong.
THERAPIST: That's why you need to stay focused.
CLIENT: I feel like a crazy person.
THERAPIST: Cartoon (inaudible at 0:24:42) You need to strengthen your rational statements. That was an example of - I mean, it was fun because I'm here and you're asking me questions back, but when you do it in such a question form it's pretty passive. It doesn't have the same impact on you. So, why bother?
CLIENT: Why bother telling him, or...
THERAPIST: I'm the devil, yeah.
CLIENT: ...suggesting we do this?
THERAPIST: Yeah, why bother? Look at all these things that could happen.
CLIENT: Well -
THERAPIST: You could lose him forever. Why bother with this?
CLIENT: I think that it's an unlikely possibility that I would lose him forever, however, if I did due to this - due to sitting and talking for the first time about our feelings I think it would be clear that he's not the right person for me. Because obviously we wouldn't be able to talk about anything ever. And I think - or it wouldn't be the end of the world because he wouldn't be the right person for me.
THERAPIST: And what good do you think is going to come out of this? I could only see bad things.
CLIENT: I think a lot of good could come out of this. First, I think that it would be a good way for me to express myself since I'm not used to it. I think that it could bring our - us closer together. It would help us both improve in these skills that neither of us have. And it could, I mean, improve our relationship and push us further into more seriousness.
(0:26:20)
THERAPIST: I don't know, I don't think you're strong enough to do this.
CLIENT: You know what, you're a piece of shit, devil.
(laughter)
THERAPIST: You've never been able to do this before, how are you going to be able to do it now?
CLIENT: Because I'm convinced that it's the best thing for me to do as well as the best thing for us to do as a couple and I know it will have positive results, no matter what.
THERAPIST: You can't do it.
CLIENT: Oh, God! Pretty feisty today. Yes I can, and I will.
THERAPIST: You sound like you're ready.
CLIENT: I'm ready. I'm nervous. Excited nervous, but ready.
THERAPIST: You going to do it tonight?
CLIENT: Probably.
(inaudible at 0:27:07) (laughs)
THERAPIST: He must get upset every Thursday. What're you going to do today?
CLIENT: I think - I always think about it and I think it's so obvious. Like, I almost think he can tell what we've talked about because I'm so like - so like, but whatever.
THERAPIST: Has he given any more thought to coming in or?
CLIENT: Coming here?
THERAPIST: Yeah. He has - he's been having a little bit of a difficult time lately. And it's so crazy to me because he wants too much to be able to control it on his own, but I think he really has like an anxiety disorder. And I just think, like, he has to get help to deal with it because he's not going to be able to function the way he wants to. And that sucks for him.
THERAPIST: So he's going to call? I mean, I don't care if he calls here, but do you think he's going to?
CLIENT: Yeah, I think he's going to call, yeah.
THERAPIST: Because you've been saying that for a few weeks so I just wondered.
CLIENT: The thing is that I'm sure that you're familiar with these things, but like whenever he's feeling okay he doesn't feel he needs to call.
(0:28:04)
CLIENT: So if he's like two or three days feeling fine it's fine. But then once he feels really bad then he wants to call, so it's like - you know. The thing is I don't really push it on him anymore because in the end it's his decision. Like, I can't -
THERAPIST: And he has the number.
CLIENT: Yeah, and it's like, I can't force him.
THERAPIST: (inaudible at 0:28:22) that's all you can do. You've tried. Right?
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: How do you feel like you're - a little easier to accept him?
CLIENT: Yeah, I do. I mean, it's still - it's annoying but because I know how much he wants to be functional and how much, like, it affects his productivity and he gets really upset about it. But I can accept it. And I do.
THERAPIST: Good. Is there anything else you want to talk about today? I mean, I feel like -
CLIENT: I do, actually. I don't know how much time we have, but -
THERAPIST: About ten minutes or so.
CLIENT: Alright.
THERAPIST: I have been having a little bit of an issue with my family members. Immediate family members. Mainly my mother and my sister. Because my sister and I are night and day and we just have always butted heads and now like with her fiancée who, by the way, who I like. And I have nothing bad to say about him. She's become even more -
CLIENT: Wait, this is your sister's - once she's been with the fiancée
(inaudible at 0:29:23)
CLIENT: She's always been difficult. She's always been super strong personality. I mean, like, we could've spent the past months and months just talking about this. But since she's been with him she's gotten even more crazy. I don't know what it is. I'm not blaming him, but -
THERAPIST: I remember you've gone to like three engagement parties or something?
CLIENT: Yeah, and now she wants a bride's maid's brunch and like whatever - I can't - whatever. And we've just, every time we talk like it's like a fight. Every time. And even when I feel like I really don't say anything - I mean, you can say anything to someone and depending on their personality they can fight with you about it.
(0:30:04)
CLIENT: But I really try not to say - like use fighting words. And it's a fight. And then more than that I don't even know, it's not really that important that part. But my mother, I haven't spoken with her in like, I don't know how many days, like four days or so. Because we had a little issue. I didn't get my financial aid to Finn yet. I'm sure I'm going to get it, but I'm - it hasn't come yet. And so my mother had to pay - like I did a monthly like thing, so it's less, but it's four thousand dollars for the semester, so it's like a thousand dollars or whatever. My parents are in a little bit of a financial crunch right now. So it's a huge thing. And then on top of that a few weeks ago Fernão (ph) and I went to eat with my parents and like I don't know, I was like in a bad mood, like a little bit tired, or something, and I said something to my mom and she got like really bent out of shape. Not at the time. She told me later. And she told me later that I was just like my sister and that I'm really mean to her. And that even Fernão (ph) noticed because he said, "Don't be mean to your mom." Which, again, I will tell you this. Like if there's anybody in my life who will tell me the absolute truth and not be nervous about it it's him. And he even said, like, "No, you were just - you were fooling around and I was fooling around with you, like defending your mom, like whatever." And the thing is like my sister - I don't want to say she's an awful person because she's not. But she's awful to my parents. Like she's always been because she was so difficult as a baby. Like, she was the one who made - called the shots. She made the rules. And they've never been able to stand up to her. They've never been able to control her. Discipline her. Anything. And I think it's really unfair because although I'm not perfect and I'm bitchy and moody and whatever my behavior compared to my sister's behavior is night and day.
(0:32:01)
CLIENT: And I feel like my parents box us into the same category. Because I don't know if it's easier for them to deal with how bad she is. Like, oh they're both bad, whatever. But it annoys me because I just feel like you saying that my behavior is equal to hers is sort of saying hers isn't that bad. And like -
THERAPIST: This is interesting.
CLIENT: But like it's so bad and it should have been addressed, but then they'll do things like, "Well, you're not nice too sometimes." Like, kind of like to defend her. And I just think that like it's not - it's not - So, anyway, I wrote - my mom wrote me an e-mail and she was like, "Why are you so mad at me." Because this is the thing, we don't talk about things. So, then we just pretend it's all over and whatever. And I wrote back explaining why and she told me that I was really unkind to her and blah blah blah. And I just told her, basically, that I think she's really demanding and that, I mean, I can't be happy and perfect and wonderful all the time. And if she were as demanding with my sister as she is with me my sister wouldn't behave the way that she behaves and that was (inaudible at 0:33:16). And she told me like I didn't - I waited to tell her about Finn. I should have told her I didn't have the money. Like, come on. I haven't had a job in how many months? Where did - did you think I won the lotto and didn't tell you? Like, you had to know I didn't have the money. You had to.
THERAPIST: We're like almost out of time so I feel like a bit at a loss to adjust this. I mean, I think it's a good start. But I'm just trying to figure out the main thing that you're angry about.
CLIENT: I'm angry because I don't feel like it's fair that my mother tells me I'm just like my sister because I'm not. And they've done this my whole life. Like, -
(0:34:00)
THERAPIST: So, you don't want them to compare you to your sister. You want them to see how different you are, and how much better you are than your sister.
CLIENT: Not better, but like just acknowledge that everyone in our lives - I mean people love my sister and they should, but everyone has - knows that my sister's behavior is -
THERAPIST: Demanding?
CLIENT: That it's really unacceptable at times.
THERAPIST: Does that mean the main thing is demanding?
CLIENT: And demanding. And my sister is so demanding on my mother. Like, you should be a better mother, you should be doing this, you never did this for me, blah blah blah. Why don't you don't drink when you meet Kyle's parents. I don't want you to act like - really, really demanding about everything. And then I feel like my mother, in turn, is demanding of me because she has to unleash this onto someone.
THERAPIST: And so you told - wrote an e-mail back to your mom saying -
CLIENT: Saying that.
THERAPIST: What was her response? Nothing?
CLIENT: She hasn't.
THERAPIST: So, you're probably feeling a lot of anxiety?
CLIENT: Yeah, so I feel really bad. Because it's really difficult for me to stand up for myself, first of all.
THERAPIST: So why haven't you called her if you're feeling like things didn't go over well?
CLIENT: If it didn't go over well?
THERAPIST: Well, I assume that's why you think that she hasn't e-mailed back.
CLIENT: Because I don't really - I mean, the only thing I think I can do in this situation because I haven't heard from her, is call her and say like, "Do you have time? I want to come over and talk." And talk to her face to face. Because an e-mail war with my mom is just like - I don't have the time or the patience for that, you know?
THERAPIST: Okay, so why don't you do that if that's what you want to do?
CLIENT: Yeah. In a calm, like not fighting manner. You know?
THERAPIST: That sounds like a good idea, to call and ask her that. Are you going to do it? Or are you going to just...
CLIENT: On top of all the other expressing myself things that I have to do.
THERAPIST: ...procrastinate this?
CLIENT: No, I'm going to do it because I feel bad. And it's like I really want her to understand the way I feel about it in a non-(inaudible at 0:35:49) way.
THERAPIST: You just don't want to be compared to that and you want to be seen as separate and make your own -
CLIENT: Yeah, and now because I'm like, "I don't want to be compared." But it's not right.
THERAPIST: You make your own mistakes but you don't want them to be lumped in together with hers.
(0:35:56)
CLIENT: Yeah, I mean, it's different and there's not a person who knows my family who can't see that. I mean, I'm not saying I'm perfect or better but, I mean stop. And so, yeah. I guess I'll do that.
THERAPIST: So, you want her to see you differently.
CLIENT: Yeah, I mean -
THERAPIST: I mean, there's always a chance that she may never because you're both her daughters. And you might have to accept that. But I think it's worth a try first.
CLIENT: Yeah, at least if she understands the way that I feel about it I can - whatever.
THERAPIST: I think what will be important for you to help with the anger in the situation and now the remorse, I guess, of having done this is to accept that just because you make a request doesn't mean it will happen. That doesn't mean that it's not worth making your request at all, which I feel like is the story of your life.
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: Right?
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: Because, basically, you never say what you want to happen, and then when you do you make a demand and then when it doesn't come true...
CLIENT: I got angrier and angrier.
THERAPIST: you got upset.
CLIENT: Yes. Yeah. I'm not going to make -
THERAPIST: So, she might not - she might not do -
CLIENT: The thing is -
THERAPIST: She might always see you as a lump.
CLIENT: Yeah, the thing is my mother's a very understanding person. And I think she will understand where I'm coming from. And I think that it might - her behavior might not change because of it. But I think she will - she'll listen.
THERAPIST: Okay, so it'll be worth expressing this.
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: Good.
CLIENT: Yeah. So, I've got a lot of work to do, then.
THERAPIST: It's hard, family relationships.
CLIENT: What?
THERAPIST: Family relationships are hard.
CLIENT: Yeah, you're right. Yeah, so, I guess I'll report back next week.
THERAPIST: Okay. I'll see you next week.
CLIENT: Alright, thanks.
THERAPIST: Bye Laura.
END TRANSCRIPT
