<font size="4"><b>7: The New Frontier in Chemotherapy</b></font>

In the entire history of the physiological
attack upon mental illness, no development
has been more significant than the recent
introduction of new drugs in the treatment of a wide variety of
mental illnesses.


The surface story of the remarkable achievements of these new
drugs has been told in scores of technical and popular articles.
Yet, beneath the surface, there is a deeper story which illustrates
in a graphic manner the thesis of this entire bookthat physiological
treatments must still fight an uphill battle for recognition among
the High Priests of Psychiatry. This writer has witnessed, during
the past several years, a set of resistances to the new drugs running
the scale from downright ignorance and bureaucratic apathy
to vicious, bitter attacks upon every researcher reporting success
in using them. And this resistance was not, and is not, confined
to the psychoanalysts, many of whom were rushing to second-hand
dealers with their sagging couches. In its initial phases,
it included a number of tax-supported Federal and state mental
health officials whose bounden duty it is to support any treatment
which holds promise of alleviating the miseries of the mentally ill.


<i>Rauwolfia serpentina</i>, a snakeroot plant, has been used in India
for centuries for a wide variety of illnessesepilepsy, insomnia,
diarrhea, headaches, fevers, mental illness, etc. In Bihar province,
the powdered roots of the plant were used as a sleeping potion

[p. <i>90</i>]

Although known to European scientists as far back as the
seventeenth century, it was relegated to an undeserved obscurity until
a few decades ago. In 1931, two Indian chemists, Drs. Salimuzzaman
Siddiqui and Rafat Hussain Siddiqui, obtained <i>Rauwolfia</i> roots
from the bazaar at Patna and from them isolated five crystalline
allaloids. They reported in the <i>Journal of the Indian Chemical
Society</i> that the purified substances extracted from the root were
particularly effective in disturbed types of mental illness complicated
by acute insomnia.


In the same year, two Indian physicians, Drs. Gananath Sen and
Kartrick Chandra Bose, published an account of their clinical
work with two of the new alkaloids. They had worked with
experimental animals previously and had observed the remarkable
ability of the new compounds in reducing high blood pressure.
In a conservative report in the <i>Indian Medical Record</i>, they noted:


"The authors have used it in all types of insanity and have
found out that it is effective only in a certain type of insanity
which is common. Insanity with violent maniacal symptoms yields
readily to it.... Doses of twenty to thirty grains of the powder
twice daily produce not only a hypnotic effect, but also a reduction
of blood-pressure and violent symptoms.... Usually, the treatment
has to be continued for four to six weeks (sometimes more), the
doses being reduced gradually. In the demented and morose
types of insanity, <i>R. serpentina</i> is not effective; it is rather contraindicated.
Such cases are usually characterized by low blood-pressure
and asthenia and are difficult to cure."


This report, written twenty-five years ago, could be given
at any scientific gathering in 1956, and it would be hailed as an
amazingly precise delineation of the treatment potential of the
<i>Rauwolfia</i> alkaloids.


Yet Drs. Sen and Bose perceived that the defenders of the
familiar and the timeworn would look askance at anything new,
even though it offered great hope in the fight against the worldwide
scourge of mental illness. They concluded their report with
a plea that "medical men all over the world would work out the

[p. <i>91</i>]

The awakening of the Western world began with a paper written
by Dr. Rustom Jal Vakil of the King Edward Memorial Hospital
in Bombay. Starting in 1940 and for almost a decade thereafter, he
used <i>Rauwolfia</i> on several thousand of his hypertensive patients.
He found it remarkably successful but, being a cautious man, he
decided to check his experience against that of his colleagues. He
sent a questionnaire to fifty of India's best-known physicians, asking
them to name the best agent they knew for reducing high blood
pressure. Forty-six of the fifty selected <i>Rauwolfia</i>. He then conducted
a series of very detailed experiments on fifty of his patients.
He submitted the report of these experiments to the <i>British Heart
Journal</i>, in which it was published in October, 1949.


Dr. Vakil's report would probably have gone the way of all previous
Indian reports but for a fateful trip to a Boston library one
night by Dr. Robert W. Wilkins, Director of the Hypertension
Clinic at Massachusetts Memorial Hospital. Dr. Wilkins read the
Vakil report, and his interest was whetted. He sent for, and studied,
the Indian medical reports of the previous twenty-five years. Impressed,
he sent for a supply of <i>Rauwolfia</i> tablets, which arrived in
Occidental Boston in the summer of 1950.


Dr. Wilkins and his group tested the drug on fifty patients. They
discovered that Dr. Vakil and his predecessors had been most conservative
in their claims. It was not only remarkably effective against
high blood pressure, but it calmed patients ridden with anxiety and
worry. In 1952, in a report to the New England Cardiovascular
Society, the Wilkins group stressed the psychiatric implications of
the drug.


"It has a type of sedative action that we have not observed before,"
they reported. "Unlike barbiturates or other standard sedatives, it
does not produce grogginess, stupor or lack of co-ordination. The

[p. <i>92</i>]

Encouraged by the reports of the Wilkins group, Dr. Raymond
Harris of Albany Medical College began an investigation of the
effects of Reserpine, a <i>Rauwolfia</i> derivative, upon twenty-six aged
people who suffered from high blood pressure and related psychiatric
complaintsnervousness, crying spells, extreme excitability, and
insomnia. They were all residents of the Ann Lee Home in Albany,
and their average age was sixty-seven years. The drug not only
significantly reduced the blood pressure of 95 per cent of the oldsters,
but it had a powerful impact upon their psychiatric symptoms. Most
of them slept better and reported a feeling of well-being. Dr. Harris
then extended the study to fifteen elderly patients living in their
own homes while being treated in private practice. On the basis of
these two studies, Dr. Harris reported in 1953:


"The sedative and tranquilizing effect of Reserpine is of value in
reducing the mental strain of geriatric patients and permitting them
to carry on more useful and comfortable lives."


The evidence began piling up. Successes in the cardiovascular and
geriatric fields were followed by reports of its effectiveness in such
gynecologic conditions as premenstrual tension, difficult menopause,
frigidity, etc. But psychiatry still dragged a cautious foot. In "The
Rauwolfia Story," a medical writer expressed his puzzlement in
these words:


"Oddly, one of the last applications of Serpasil (Reserpine) to be
tested by modern investigators was in the control of severe mental
diseasethe very field in which <i>Rauwolfia</i> has been widely hailed
in India for at least five centuries."


One young psychiatric researcher finally broke the ice. Dr. Nathan
S. Kline, thirty-seven-year-old Director of Research at New York's
massive Rockland State Hospital, got interested, he said later, because
of "the tremendous paucity of pharmalogical methods of treating
mental disease." After a careful review of the literature, Dr. Kline
decided to plunge in. He first tried the drug on himself and volunteers
from his research staff. Then he moved on to a large-scale
experiment. He tried the drug on one of the toughest wards at
Rockland. Of the 411 patients who were given the drug over a
period of a month, all were listed as severely disturbed and many

[p. <i>93</i>]

Dr. Kline reported the results of his experiment in February,
1954, at a New York Academy of Sciences symposium devoted
mainly to reports of the successes of <i>Rauwolfia</i> in physical illnesses.
His paper was an extremely cautious one. He reported that the
drug had a generally calming effect on the ward; incidents of violence
were reduced by a third, and much less restraint and seclusion
were employed. But he leaned over backward in summarizing the
results.


"A great deal more investigation is needed to insure that the improvement
noted was not the result of psychological factors," he
warned. "Those cases reported on showed <i>improvement</i>, and the
time elapsed has been too brief to know if there is not a rapid
relapse unless other treatment is maintained. There is little doubt
that in most people <i>Rauwolfia</i> brings about a change of psychic
state. This in itself may be the effective factor in conjunction with
psychotherapy....


"Considerable research is indicated: (I) to determine for which
patients <i>Rauwolfia</i> is a satisfactory sedative; (2) to confirm the
beneficial action of <i>Rauwolfia</i> in certain psychoneurotics; (3) to determine
if other neurological and psychiatric conditions may be
benefited; (4) to investigate the possible modes of action; and (5)
to extend further the research on related Ayurvedic [native Indian]
drugs."


What could be more cautious? Impressed with Dr. Kline's paper,
and deeply convinced he had opened the door to a vast new chemical
attack upon mental illness, I circulated his paper among some of
my psychiatric and medical-writer friends. With a few notable exceptions,
the responses were astonishing. I was solemnly warned that I
had succumbed to "sensationalism," that Dr. Kline had plunged
far beyond the pale of "responsible scientific behavior," that it was
"barbaric" to suggest that a mere drug could alleviate anxieties, and
so on. A number of the psychiatrists got up on their moral high
horses and cried out that we were arousing "false hopes" in the
mentally ill and their families, and that psychiatry had been through
this business before with a lot of other therapies. As politely as
possible, I replied that all we wanted was a fair trial for the new

[p. <i>94</i>]

The Kline paper was pretty much ignored in the early months of
1954. Then, in June, 1954, <i>The Saturday Evening Post</i> broke out
with a major article on Reserpine called "The Drug That Fooled
The Doctors." It was written by Milton Silverman, a Ph.D. in
chemistry and one of the nation's top science writers.


The Silverman article dealt, in part, with the use of Reserpine
by Drs. Robert H. Noce and David B. Williams on seventy-four
severely disturbed patients at the Modesto State Hospital in California.
The Modesto doctors had begun using Reserpine in October,
1953, and the Post article reported on experience over a seven-month
period. Of seventy-four patients to whom the drug was administered,
eight were discharged and another twenty showed dramatic abatement
of psychotic symptoms. Eighty per cent of the entire group
showed marked improvement.


Just about the time the Silverman article appeared, I was working
on two projects with the National Institute of Mental Health. The
first was a brochure analyzing the current status of psychiatric research.
In the draft sections prepared by the Institute, I noted the
complete omission of even the slightest reference to the new drugs.
I questioned this, particularly in view of the fact that the brochure
was replete with descriptions of research projects still in the testing
stage. The answer given me was the usual one: "sensational stuff"
and "false hopes." Fortunately for the National Institute of Mental
Health, our committee went ahead and included a couple of exceedingly
conservative pages on the new drugs. By the time the

[p. <i>95</i>]

The second project was a magazine article highlighting the new
developments in psychiatric research. We submitted one draft to the
Institute people which emphasized some of the dramatic results
being obtained by the new drugs. They balked so determinedly that
the co-operative project was dropped and the National Mental
Health Committee assumed full responsibility for the summation,
which finally appeared as a two-part series on the editorial pages
of the conservative New York <i>Herald Tribune</i>.


The public information section of the Institute also began moaning
to me about the flood of inquiries on the new drugs they were
getting from the families of patients. They allowed as how this was
a terrible thing: people in this democracy of ours writing letters to
a tax-supported agency clamoring for information on the drugs!
They were particularly bitter about the Silverman article, charging
"sensational" handling of "sober" psychiatric material.


The ground was soon cut from under them. On October 30, 1954,
the exceedingly sober <i>Journal of the American Medical Association</i>
printed the scientific report of the Modesto group. In subdued,
dispassionate prose, it told a remarkable story.


"At the time of this report," the authors wrote, "we have sixty-eight
female and six male mentally ill patients taking Reserpine by
mouth or injection or both. For this investigation we have selected
only those mental patients who had the worst prognosis as far as
recovery was concerned. They were the so-called back-ward patients
who had been regarded as hopeless. A great majority had been
mentally ill for a long period of time and had been entirely refractory
to other methods of treatment. Three or four of this group had
received over one hundred electroshock treatments each. In fact, all
of the first nine patients were selected from our maximum security
wards.


"Prior to this study these wards presented the usual picture of
wards of this type, namely, ten to twelve patients in seclusion, some
also in camisole or other types of restraint. In addition, heavy sedation
and electroconvulsive therapy, as well as hydrotherapy and wet
packs, were necessary and being utilized daily. Owing to the raucous,
hyperactive, combative, sarcastic, resistive, uncooperative patients,

[p. <i>96</i>]

To anyone who has spent any length of time in the back wards
of our mental hospitals, the above is a classic description of conditions
which have gone on day after day, week after week, month
after month, year after year, and decade after decade in the back
pits of these dungeons of doom. And now a new therapy is introduced.
What are the results?


"Since the advent of therapy with Reserpine by the oral and parenteral
routes, changes in the patients' attitudes and behavior have
been noted," the authors report. "The patients do not manifest a
fear reaction to the alkaloid and gladly express a preference for
this drug over electroconvulsive therapy. Patients have undergone
a metamorphosis from raging, combative, unsociable persons to cooperative,
friendly, cheerful, sociable, relatively quiet persons who
are amenable to psychotherapy and rehabilitative measures. Most
patients have shown favorable weight gains, and they have further
expressed a desire to be assigned to work details.... At present on
the wards where patients are receiving Reserpine, seclusion, restraint
of all types, sedation, and electroconvulsive therapy have been almost
eliminated. It seems incredible that a drug can replace electroconvulsive
therapy in this manner, but apparently such a drug has been
found, and we expect it to revolutionize and facilitate modern psychiatric
treatment."


And how about the ward attendants, assigned the daily task of
working in these pits of violence? Do the drugs raise "false hopes"
in them?


"Not only the patients have benefited but the ward technicians
have adopted hopeful, optimistic attitudes, which are required for
a positive and effective approach to therapy," the authors conclude.

[p. <i>97</i>]

On December 2, 1954, the Modesto doctors reported on additional
work with Reserpine to the Eighth Clinical Meeting of the American
Medical Association. Of 247 patients, mostly severely schizophrenic,
treated for periods up to twelve months, 27 per cent left the hospital
on either indefinite leave of absence or discharge. The authors concluded
their report with an earnest plea for more research in chemotherapy:


"The use of Reserpine should result in annual savings to taxpayers
by virtue of its decreasing admissions as well as making possible
many leaves of absence and discharges. Many chronic mentally ill
patients who were regarded as having a hopeless prognosis have
gone, and others will continue to go on indefinite leave of absence
from the hospital.... Further research in reference to chemical and
physiological disturbances of the cerebrum in mental disorders
should provide enlightening information about the effectiveness of
Reserpine and other chemical therapies.... This period of chemical
treatment of the mentally ill is in its infancy, and we believe that
more specific drugs will be discovered in the future that will make
it possible to treat specific symptoms or diagnostic categories."


As the months went by, the clinical evidence began to multiply.
In February, 1955, the New York Academy of Sciences held a second
symposium on Reserpine. The clinical evidence of the remarkable
success of the drug had multiplied to such an extent that the entire
two-day symposium was restricted to its use in neuropsychiatric and
related disorders. The following summary of a few of the thirty
scientific papers delivered by outstanding American and European
investigators may convey some idea of the impact of the symposium
upon current thinking in psychiatry:


1. The Use of Reserpine in Ambulatory and Hospitalized
Geriatric PsychoticsDr. Anthony Sainz, State Psychopathic
Hospital, Iowa City, Iowa.


Reserpine was given to eighty-nine seniles, ranging in age from
sixty-four to ninety-two years. Of the group, twenty-six were outpatients

[p. <i>98</i>]

"In conclusion, it may be stated that the results produced by the
use of Reserpine alone in these patients were most gratifying," Dr.
Sainz reported. "Many ambulatory patients were able to remain at
home while under treatment, and an analysis of the behavior of the
sixty-three hospitalized patients included in our study showed that
man-hours of work spent by psychiatric aides, nurses, and doctors in
their care decreased an average of 50 per cent. This reduction
should be of great interest to state hospitals in general which are
surfeited, by and large, with patients in these categories."


2. Reserpine at Manteno State HospitalDrs. Dean C. Tasher
and Marianne Chermak.


Manteno is one of the largest mental hospitals in the country, with
more than eight thousand patients. In February, 1953, Dr. Tasher
had begun a bold program with prolonged maintenance electroshock
therapy on more than three hundred chronic schizophrenics
in the back wards at Manteno. However, even among the group
classified as "shock-reversible" (able to maintain some reality contact
with one or two shock treatments a week), difficulties were
practically insurmountable.


"The ward on which these patients resided was noted for frequent
assaults, moderate to very severe injuries, and daily transfers
to the hydrotherapy division," Dr. Tasher noted. "By the beginning
of last year [1954], it was deemed necessary to project construction
plans for hydrotherapy facilities on the ward because of the frequency
of violent disturbances. Overcrowding and inadequate numbers
of personnel presented an insurmountable hurdle to the realization
of any further attempt to expand or even to continue long
the maintenance shock ward. Therefore, we were on the alert for
any type of easily administered, efficacious mass therapy which could
supplant this program."


When Reserpine first became available at Manteno in the summer
of 1954, Dr. Tasher tried it on eighty-two chronically disturbed
women who were getting one or two shock treatments a week. The
response was so dramatic that the electroshock treatment was discontinued.
Of these first eighty-two women, fifty-nine were either
discharged or referred to social service for home placement, and
only eleven showed no significant improvement.

[p. <i>99</i>]

Then Dr. Tasher moved in on the toughest group, those resistant
to all forms of therapy, including shock. As he describes it:


"Various groups of severely regressed, very long-term patients
(five to thirty years of continuous hospitalization) were then
surveyed to see whether this medication could be successfully administered
in wholesale fashion to the typical back-ward patient
with any expectation of improvement. These patients had all received,
at various times, different types of intensive treatment from
the earliest methods, through the eras of metrazol and large-scale
insulin therapy, then electric shock, and had shown a uniform lack
of response. In addition, many of them had been subject to other
types of treatment such as carbon-dioxide therapy, prolonged sleeptherapy,
and varied new medications as they would appear and
then disappear from the market. More subtle techniques had been
tried on occasion. Whole wards would be shifted, personnel would
be changed, and whole teams of the ancillary therapists would make
sustained efforts through the media of occupational and recreational
therapy to bring about some change in the schizophrenic withdrawal
of these untidy, severely regressed patients. All such measures were
to no avail. For the purposes of this paper, these patients are referred
to as shock-resistant and constitute the growing population of the
hospital, for many enter at sixteen to eighteen years of age and
remain fifty or sixty years."


This is the real hard core of the mental hospital load, and yet
Dr. Tasher was able to report in February, 1955:


"The shock-resistant group, including 104 women and 35 men,
have been under treatment for only two months. Of these, nineteen
are discharged or ready for discharge after hospitalizations up to
thirteen years. Fifty-two show definite clinical improvement. The
remainder have not yet shown response to therapy.... In view of
these results, the authors believe Reserpine to be a valuable new
adjunctive or even replacement therapy in the treatment of chronic
schizophrenic patients who were formerly considered more or less
permanently institutionalized."


3. Treatment of Chronic Schizophrenic Reactions with Reserpine
Drs. Leo E. Hollister, George E. Krieger, Alan
Kringle, and Richard H. Roberts, Veterans Administration
Hospital, Palo Alto, California.

[p. <i>100</i>]

"We purposely chose patients with chronic schizopherenic reactions
for evaluation, because this particular diagnostic category accounts
for 47 per cent of mental hospital in-patients," the Palo Alto doctors
reported. "Each year, at least $235,000,000 is spent caring for this
group of 270,000, whose average hospitalization lasts thirteen years
usually during the most productive period of life. In terms of
human misery, the cost of this illness is incalculable.


"Eight years ago, an analogous situation existed in patients with
tuberculosis. Since the introduction of effective drugs in the treatment
of that disease, the entire character of the treatment has
changed. The necessity for hospital treatment of tuberculosis has
diminished. The degree of disability has been lessened, and the
mortality rate has been reduced. It is altogether possible that Reserpine,
Chlorpromazine, and other drugs to follow may cause a similar
revolution in the treatment of the mentally ill."


The Palo Alto doctors selected 127 chronic schizophrenics for a
trial with Reserpine. These patients had been ill for periods of from
six months to thirty-seven years.


"The main reasons these patients were selected for treatment,"
the authors reported, "were these: (1) they were so disturbed as to
require frequent restraint, seclusion, or heavy sedation; (2) they
were too anxious or hostile or too withdrawn and uncommunicative
to be amenable to other psychiatric treatment; (3) they had not
responded to any previous therapy."


Almost from the inception of the drug treatment, dramatic
changes were noted by the authors:


"When patients showed marked improvement, the result was
frequently astounding, even to psychiatrists of long clinical experience.
Patients who had been clearly responding to hallucinations,
or careless of personal habits, or hostile, destructive, and resistive,
Or completely withdrawn and mute became, within a short period
of time, clean, co-operative, and communicative persons. Many of
the patients who showed moderate improvement were better than
they had been during most of their hospital course. In many cases,
these patients were able, for the first time, to participate in some of
the psychiatric rehabilitative programs which they had previously
spurned. Often moderately or markedly improved patients demonstrated
some evidence of increased understanding of the nature of

[p. <i>101</i>]

Of the 127 patients treated, ninety-eight showed significant improvement.
Twenty-five were granted passes from the hospital, and
five were discharged. Four patients in the group had been scheduled
for lobotomies, which were canceled because of favorable response
to Reserpine. In a number of other cases, electroconvulsive therapy
was discontinued.


4. Clinical Evaluation of Reserpine in a State Hospital
Drs. William L. Kirkpatrick and Foster Sanders, East
Louisiana State Hospital, Jackson, La.


"Our study totaled 206 patients consisting of five groups," the
Louisiana doctors reported. "These groups were as follows: (1)
eleven acutely disturbed patients; (2) thirty-nine chronic epileptic
patients; (3) twenty-two chronically ill patients residing in a violent
ward; (4) twenty-four psychotic patients with pulmonary
tuberculosis; and (5) a supplementary mixed group totaling 110,
including (<i>a</i>) geriatric patients; (<i>b</i>) cases refractory to a large number
of EST [electroshock] treatments; (<i>c</i>) deteriorated patients
who were denudative, assaultive, destructive, and uncooperative;
and (<i>d</i>) mental defective patients."


Of the 164 patients who received Reserpineforty-five served as
controlssixty-seven patients either were able to leave the hospital
on furlough or pass, or were transferred to better wards. There was
a statistically significant reduction in seizure frequency among the
epileptic group. There was an 83 per cent improvement in the TB
group. Of those patients unable to leave the authors had this to
report:


"Many patients who improved, but were unable to leave, became
assets to the hospital and were able to take care of themselves. Some
performed useful functions in the ward or worked in some productive
capacity in other areas. The cost of the medication daily per

[p. <i>102</i>]

5. Clinical and Psychological Observations on Psychiatric
Patients Treated with Reserpine: A Preliminary Report
Drs. Jay L. Hoffman and Leon Konchegul, St. Elizabeths
Hospital, Washington, D. C.


Drs. Hoffman and Konchegul, staff psychiatrists at St. Elizabeths,
huge Federal mental hospital housing more than seven thousand
patients, frankly admitted they shared the resistance of many of
their colleagues to use of the new drugs.


"A considerable number of psychiatrists are prejudiced against
the use of drugs in the treatment of psychological illness," they reported.
In part, this prejudice is based on the widespread use, or
abuse, of the sedative and hypnotic drugs. These medicaments have
been aptly described as representing chemical restraint and, when
they are so used, subject to all the objections made against mechanical
restraint of the mentally ill.


"Sharing the prejudice above referred to, the authors were impelled
to determine for themselves, with as much objectivity as they
could muster, whether the drug Reserpine (Serpasil) is, in fact, a
generically different therapeutic agent than the hypnotic drugs and
whether it has the effects desired for our patients. Although this is
Only a preliminary report of a seven-week period of observation, and
although there are still certain details regarding the use of this drug
about which we expect to learn more, we believe that we can properly
answer both of these questions in the affirmative."


The drug was given to 108 patients, the majority of them disturbed
schizophrenics.


"The patients here consideredbefore medicationwere restless,
agitated, confused, assaultive, and combative," the doctors from
St. Elizabeths noted. "The number who required seclusion was
relatively high. Many were hostile, suspicious, tense, and threatening.
They included the untidy, the incontinent, the markedly regressed
patients who refused to wear clothing or who smeared

[p. <i>103</i>]

"After receiving Reserpine, 27 per cent showed little or no change.
This is itself a point of differentiation from the common hypnotic
drugs. The latter, with a single dose of the appropriate drug, will
almost always produce the expected effect promptly.


"For the 73 per cent who showed some degree of improvement,
the most common observation was a reduction of motor hyperactivity,
of tension, of hostility and aggressiveness. Seclusion became less
frequent or was eliminated. Patients who had not previously worn
clothes now did so. Those who had been untidy or careless in their
dress now took more interest in their personal appearance. Communication
with some of the patients became easier, and their
speech became more coherent and less confused. They found it
easier to talk about their delusions and hallucinations. While most,
if not all, retained their abnormal content, they seemed to be made
less anxious by it. Sometimes, if they were willing to discuss their
delusions or hallucinations at all, they gave the impression that their
abnormal ideas were actually not their own, but rather those of a
third person.


"Those who showed the most marked degree of improvement became
affable, bland, friendly. They asked to be given ward work
to do, and began talking about when they could go home. They
participated again in recreational activities, played checkers and
cards, took part in ball games, went for walks, watched television
programs, and read newspapers and books.


"The effect of such patient improvement on the morale of the
ward personnel was noteworthy. In one ward, where the Reserpine
was reserved for the patients included in this study, an overactive
boy had been given some of the drug by a physician who had
begged of his colleagues all the samples they had. When no more
samples were forthcoming and the boy was again becoming disturbed,
the nurses agreed among themselves to take up a collection
to buy more of the drug for this patient. Needless to say, the hospital
took appropriate action to make this action unnecessary."

[p. <i>104</i>]

The 1955 New York Academy of Sciences symposium also included
several excellent papers on the use of Reserpine in the private
practice of psychiatry. Patients beset with anxieties were calmed
down and kept at a functioning level through the oral use of the
drugs on an out-patient basis. Summing up the point of view of the
private practitioner, Dr. Sydney Kinnear Smith of Berkeley, California,
suggested the enormous potential of Reserpine and other
drugs in bringing psychiatry back into the mainstream of medicine.


"The results of diminished tension and anxiety, associated with
an improved accessibility of psychotherapy, is of particular significance
in private practice," Dr. Smith noted. "In its final evaluation,
this may be the dominant contribution of Reserpine to psychiatry.
We may be entering a New Era because of a better integration between
the several schools that constitute our speciality. The Couch
may yet be moved from the Ivory Tower to the Temple of
Aesculapius."


During the remainder of 1955, the clinical evidence poured in.
<i>The Journal of the American Medical Association</i> published a sheaf
of significant studies, as did <i>The American Journal of Psychiatry</i> and
humerous other technical journals. The regional research conferences
of the American Psychiatric Association, and the APA annual
convention in Atlantic City in May, were dominated by papers on
the drugs.


Finally, even the National Institute of Mental Health saw the
light. During the 1955 Congressional hearings, the Director of the
Institute had some kind things to say about the new drugs, although
not until he was pressed by Senator Hill as to what he would do if
he were allocated additional money.


There were plenty of resistances still kicking around, though. I
went into a Southern state late in February, 1955, to address a state
mental health association meeting to which a number of key legislators
had been invited. Prior to coming into the state, I had been informed
that several of the state hospital superintendents were
dragging their feet on the drugsto the point where the families of
patients who could afford to were buying drugs for them. I ripped
into this practice as unconscionable, since it discriminated against
those patients who had no outside resources. Several of the hospital
superintendents, under the baleful glance of the legislators in the

[p. <i>105</i>]
