TRANSCRIPT OF AUDIO FILE:
______________________________________________________________________________
BEGIN TRANSCRIPT:
CLIENT: My back is killing me. I fell asleep on the couch and I think that's what happened. The futon. 
THERAPIST: Yeah.
CLIENT: So I don't know if we're supposed to talk about my lack of confidence or what a horrible day I had yesterday. 
THERAPIST: Whatever is on your mind. 
CLIENT: Well, the reason it was such a crappy day was because you know, Jess is, you know we've decided that early August, the firm's done. Our malpractice renews. So I spent a lot of yesterday, you know, applying for malpractice insurance which is, you know, just kind of a pain in the butt. And you know, for me, I get a good amount of business from the area; thousands of dollars this year, which makes a difference, you know. I just had a closing where I made $2,500 bucks. And she is not a big fan of me, of sharing the office—you know, even putting my name on the door. 
THERAPIST: She uses that office a lot more than you? Is that...?
CLIENT: Yeah, well it's technically her office. The other is my office. This is her office. But we always, you know, for the firm...and it never was a problem until recently. I used to go and work there all the time and just without asking, and then all of a sudden one day you've got to ask to use the office and really just, you know; it just...it all kind of came out of nowhere. And she's really giving me a hard time about it because I want to be able to put the address on the website and...
THERAPIST: Because you get business you otherwise probably wouldn't get.
CLIENT: Right. People want to use someone local. 
THERAPIST: Yeah.
CLIENT: You know, and also for the search engines. So she's like well, there's a new guy running the office and if he finds...if he sees two people using the office, he's going to charge us more. And I was like, well, I'll pay the extra money. You know I'll pay you to use the office. 
THERAPIST: Right. 
CLIENT: You know and like...
THERAPIST: Right, so it's a small investment for you.
CLIENT: And she sends me this completely nonsensical e-mail just like, you know, if a person could stutter in an e-mail, this is kind of what it would sound like.
THERAPIST: Yeah. 
CLIENT: Oh, this message has no content. Screw it. But you know it's like she's just being overly stubborn about it and I don't know why. And she's like, "Oh you can rent out Jess [inaudible]. That's the woman next to you. I've used her office. You can rent out her conference room space." She doesn't get it. It's not the conference room that I need, it's not the place to work that I need, it's the address. And so that was just very upsetting to me the whole day. I talked to her in the morning and then, you know, I e-mailed her again last night and just; it just set a bad tone for the day. And then I find out that my summer judgment motion they're appealing, which...
THERAPIST: This is the one you won all [inaudible 04:10]?
CLIENT: Yeah, which can take years. You know, it can take a long time and the...I shouldn't let this bother me, but it does. My clients have just been on top of me about when is this going to be over? When are we going to get the money? When...? You know. The place is falling apart. The woman upstairs is being drunk and coming in at 2:00 in the morning and banging her feet and this...you know, every little problem. And now I've got to turn around; they just filed a notice of appeal which doesn't, I mean, a lot of attorneys will file a notice of appeal just to preserve the right to appeal. But they've hired another attorney that's involved, which means that I think they're going forward with [inaudible 05:02]. And you know at least while the...they may try and stay the judgment. I don't know, but I should be able to at least get an attachment or something on the property or record the judgment or I don't know. But it's just upsetting to me because it's one more area of law that I don't deal with that I now have to write a fucking appeal. I have to do research and I really don't have the resources to do research. And I've got to tell my clients, you know, referring back to my fee agreement, the fee agreement wasn't for appeals and that you're going to have to send me another $1,000 because you already owe me $3,000 or $4,000. I'm not going to take on an appeal this far in the hole. 
THERAPIST: Do you want to take on the appeal?
CLIENT: There really isn't; I feel like they have nowhere else to turn. No other attorney is going to take it without like a $5,000 retainer or a large retainer. I feel that's...
THERAPIST: Do you feel obliged to them?
CLIENT: Yeah, I feel I'm invested in this and that, you know, I don't know. I just...there's, you know, I don't want them coming up with money and paying some other attorney before they pay me, you know, is part of it, but I don't know; I just feel like I'm so invested in this case that I've got to stick it out kind of. But it's not so much me doing the appeal; it's the fact that I've got to tell them that she's appealing. Because once again, they're going to say, "Oh, she's winning. She's won." Which she's delaying the thing for, you know, it could take a couple of years before the appeals court gets to it. Because Jess does criminal matters which are a priority and those can take eight months to a year. So...
THERAPIST: And do they automatically get the appeal if they want it?
CLIENT: Yeah, anybody who wants to appeal and spend the money can appeal. It doesn't mean they're going to win. There's not a whole lot to appeal on.
THERAPIST: Yeah.
CLIENT: There wasn't a long written decision. My three counts are slam dunk. They didn't follow procedure, you know, and they lost that. Their attorney committed malpractice. Whether it...it ultimately will be malpractice if they would have had a chance to win, so it's not malpractice because they wouldn't have won anyways. But I, you know, I've got to come up with an argument for why because they just kind of dismissed their two counts without saying why really. 
So there's a lot of things that could go on, but it was just upsetting that it's going to be dragged out and just having to put up with them getting upset about it is more what's bothering me than anything else. I feel for them to some degree. I've come...I empathize with, or do I sympathize or something. Either one of those. Because this woman is just slapping them at every turn. The woman is basically going to spend as much money as she owes them to fight this appeal. It's not going to go...I don't think we're going to get a hearing on it and I don't think; I think the appeals court is going to, at least for our [inaudible 09:15] is going to smack it back down. But I've already thought of some pretty good arguments of why their counts shouldn't win. I mean she filed the single affidavit, which is on discovery, she said she had five witnesses. We don't see a single affidavit from any of those witnesses. She did not produce one document showing that there was a brief of fiduciary duty. It's all a self serving affidavit. That's probably what the court said is she's produced nothing but...you know, they did bad stuff and that's just not enough. The judge felt that that wasn't enough; that they acted appropriately and within their power. 
One of the things I just fucked up is that by statute, you have to pay your condo fees first and then challenge it, and I didn't argue that. And I don't know if I can get away with arguing it on appeal of it's worth trying to bring up or not. But that's something I should have said right from the start is that you've got to pay it then complain about it afterwards. They could say that I waive that argument. 
But and they don't record...there's no transcript and I don't believe that they record these hearings. So in my...I don't know. So it's a very; you know, with no money coming in and really just being just a really crappy day. 
THERAPIST: Yeah. 
CLIENT: And...
THERAPIST: I want to be pragmatic here for a minute because there is something I don't understand about the office. It seems to be that what you need is basically a mailing address right. I guess my point is why wouldn't it work if Jess let you get mail there, but nothing else, not even using the office. And if you actually needed to use space there, you could use the conference room and rent it from this other person? So that, you know, on the website and wherever else, you could keep that as a business address, but just not literally do anything in that physical office. I mean it doesn't seem like what; it seems like what she cares about is like not wanting you in the space because that office space...
CLIENT: You know, it doesn't make sense to me. It seems like she just doesn't want any contact with me. She doesn't...it really doesn't make sense. It reminds me of...and I'm sometimes like this with Jess. Jess is like prodding me for why I want to do something and it might be just because I fucking want to do it or [inaudible 12:48] you know.
THERAPIST: Yeah.
CLIENT: I don't have the specific answer or the answer I want. It's like why don't you want to call the clerk? It's because I don't want to fucking call the clerk. I don't want to fucking call the clerk.
THERAPIST: So it seems like that...like she just doesn't want you...
CLIENT: And she's just being...I wish I could read the e-mail because it's so back and forth. You can't do this, you can do this, you know. I mean the best case is that I can find some law office that for $100 or a $200 a month, which I don't have, you know...and this is the worst part about it is I'm getting business here and she wants me to pay support for the kids, but she's costing me business. She's costing me business. So that's what's bothering me a lot more than the breaking up of the firm is bothering me because I felt that I was just starting to get a lot of business coming through on the website and now I've got to go ahead and change everything on the website and not so much...it's not like a total complete over haul of the website where it says our names, you just remove her name.
THERAPIST: Right.
CLIENT: I can't decide whether I want to go with Law Firm or not, or Law Offices, or just Law. 
THERAPIST: So there's both the practical aspect of having to find another way of getting that address and having to deal with Jess being unreasonable and counterproductive and a pain in the ass. Like these are sort of the two different...
CLIENT: Yeah, and the fact that now there's a date where the firm's going to break up. That's probably what bothers me the most is that the firm is breaking up. You know, it's like she's going to stop dealing in the family law because she's had a couple of bad cases where the other attorney has been an asshole and it's like I fucking do, taking any fucking slop that comes through the door, you know, and that she turns to me and she's like well I haven't made that much money over the years doing family law. Because you haven't done anything to get family law cases. You know you just can't sit there on your ass and expect the business to come flying through the door. I have a landlord/tenant case on Thursday morning and it's because I was networking. It's because I was out there trying to get business and I got business. And I'm going to make some money from it. And that's how the world works. There's just no business where you just sit on your ass and the money comes to you. Even in the mafia, you've got to work your way up. It's like you know, it's like...
I did beat Barbara and...
THERAPIST: Oh to the [inaudible 16:26]...
CLIENT: Back to back victories. Our games are pretty close. I kind of told her that, you know, I was having a rough day and that I needed that win. We kind of had a back and forth. Like a little school girl. As you say, close can be more fun. I don't mind losing as long as it's well thought. Sorry your week has been so sad. Sad face. She uses the emoticon things, you know. And I said it's only Monday, you know. And she says true, but you get to hang out with all of us tomorrow. It always makes things better. And then I'm like, I actually have a board meeting. I love the forum, but I'd rather be playing. I do like your thinking. And she goes "That's too bad. That's too bad." That's not much better, but, so I don't know. Sucks to have a board meeting tonight. I'd much rather be playing. At least I get two nice bike rides out of it. 
I'm in charge of snacks this week. I figured I go to the grocery store and get the sliced cheese things and crackers. Those are never a big hit, but you know, it's more for me to take home. 
Yesterday I also thought about the self confidence thing. It's something I've had ever since I was little; with girls in elementary school. I'm trying to think have I ever had girlfriends. I don't know. 
Mondays are always...I don't know why I'm always anxious on Mondays. It's like...I just feel like I've got a lot of work to do when I get to the office and I really...it's not really that much work. I just need to clean the shit off of my desk. A lot of it's paying bills that I don't have money to pay. 
My website was down on Friday because the guy who originally set up my old website is still hosting the website and I can't get him to switch it to my name. Every time I call up, they want to speak to him. And he doesn't do websites anymore, so it's like, you know. I don't know, but I've got to come up with a new domain name. Get people to start using the new e-mail address and just, you know. It's just a pain in the ass. It really is. Just, you know. [inaudible 21:15] being dumb. There's someone who, you know, you need to distance yourself professionally and you don't want to be caught up because of liability or whatever. In the middle. 
THERAPIST: My impression is that there is an emotional aspect to the breakup of the firm that is pretty upsetting and pretty hard to talk about.
CLIENT: No, no, no. To me, there are business implications, you know. I feel that, one; I've got to spend a bunch of money to change everything. And I don't have the reliance of using some of her money for a little bit until I have money coming in. And it's like I'm not going to have, really, any more money. I still have the case on Thursday but I don't have money coming in until the end of the month. And I don't know how much that's going to be. Just I think it hurts me to be a solo as opposed to...
THERAPIST: You're saying that if somehow we could wave a magic wand and the breakup of the firm wasn't going to affect you financially, like it could magically know that or something, then it wouldn't really bother you that this is really about the various financial implications of it?
CLIENT: Yeah, selling myself. I had a loan officer who point blank, well if you have two closings the same day, you know...it's like well I have a partner and that the lawyer's [inaudible 23:48] to work with, you know. It sounds like, you know; it just sounds better to say that you've got some backup. 
She wants me to get a new personal account so that there are dual account is only for paying the IRS and our DOR. Another fucking pain in the ass; opening up a new bank account. I don't know if we're going to get fees on that account now if we're not using it enough, you know. 
I keep kicking myself for buying the bike. You know I just spent $230 on new checks because I thought at least, you know, the firm was going to go on a little longer. That was fucking stupid. Throwing money away. Probably could have gotten by another month or opened up a new account and used those checks. I don't know if I can change the name of the account or not. 
Also I feel more on my own. I mean I kind of was always on my own, but now I feel even more. Just I'm on an island now. I can't give my fucking tenants a break to send me money. I don't know who wrote e-mails to me on Friday. I don't know who was trying to get in touch with me; other people. I mean it balances, so people should know that their e-mail didn't go through. 
Just really felt hopeless yesterday. The one main thing that had really gone right for me, you know, that was significant has just been slapped down. 
THERAPIST: [inaudible 30:28].
CLIENT: I sent that lawyer an e-mail. It's about $1,000 worth of titles that are 60 days old. [inaudible 31:01] sends me the money for that. I don't know if he'll try to e-mail me. The last time I did it, he responded right away, "Oh, sorry. I'll send the check right out."
THERAPIST: And he did?
CLIENT: And he did. I don't know if that's going to happen this time. [inaudible 31:21] in the office at end of last week. He tried to e-mail me on Friday. [inaudible 31:29]
THERAPIST: Yeah, [inaudible 33:10] and it's not exactly like you were feeling all that inaudible 33:14] to begin with. 
CLIENT: In spite of everything that's broken—like my car, my sunglasses are broken being held together with duct tape, my air conditioner's broken. It'll work for like a few minutes and then cuts out. I don't know what that means. It needs to be recharged. I figured it wouldn't be any cold air. And now it's probably something mechanically wrong, which sounds expensive. 
I was starving yesterday because I came home and made a salad for a late lunch and then cooked up a bunch of zucchini, and that, of course, wasn't filling me. I was starving, so I went to the deli to get a sandwich and they were all out of the sandwiches that were, you know, that looked edible. 
Over the weekend, I would buy two sandwiches and eat them. Technically, that's a good thing I did. Sucked down a couple of sandwiches. I'm happier with the sandwiches. Today I wouldn't be happy, but last night I would have been happier.
Friends invited me to a festival on this coming weekend; camping Saturday—Friday, Saturday, and Sunday...or Saturday night and coming back Sunday. It's like $75. And then I have to buy food and beer.
THERAPIST: Where is it? 
CLIENT: It's the local Festival. It's the 100 year anniversary of, I guess it's Woody Guthrie's birth. I don't know. But I think his son or all the Guthrie's have [inaudible 37:31]. Most of the bands I've never heard of before.
THERAPIST: Did you decide to go?
CLIENT: Yes and no. I don't have the money, you know. I have nothing else to do. 
THERAPIST: I think it could be good if you could get the money together. It would be good if you could spend the weekend more around people. I mean you've been more social lately I know, but...
I imagine that you haven't had that much that you've been able to count on or feel good about, but you know have the firm be together and have this case go quite well were among those things. I think that would help make you feel more secure. And as though you could be more effective.
CLIENT: Huh?
THERAPIST: Or as though you could be more effective. Like [inaudible 43:49] or no?
END TRANSCRIPT
