Five Approaches to Linda: Session Five, Object Relations Therapy
FIVE APPROACHES TO LINDA
SESSION 5
INTRODUCTION
The unique aspect to this program involving inclusion of an actress who portrayed the role of the patient with the same problem each day at the five day presentation.  Students and participants obtained the first hand view of how each individual theorist dealt from their own prospective with the patient and her particular problems.  The case of Linda was developed to be a fixed role for this particular presentation.  Any deviation that occurs during the course of her sessions with these various therapists, occurred as a result of what the particular therapist chose to focus on as they facilitated the sessions, as opposed to any deliberate deviation by the actress herself.
The following session features Therapist #5, who is using Object Relations Therapy.
BEGIN TRANSCRIPT:
THERAPIST: My understanding is, is it correct, this is, this your first therapy session?
CLIENT: Ah, yes. It is—well and I must say that I'm not really sure about this whole thing. I don't really trust the, ah, processes.  This therapy ...
THERAPIST: Well, what troubles you about?
CLIENT: (exhales) Well, first of all, if I can be honest, I really never opened up to anybody before.  And ah, especially, a man.  And ah, I don't believe in the whole process, I don't think...
THERAPIST: What, what do you feel the difficulty in opening up this?
CLIENT: I think to try to some (indistinct sound) of what's going on inside of me or the problem that I feel that I have right now, it's, it's (deep breaths) it's gonna be very hard to deal in, in a matter of just hours. It's just, it's just seems to be complex.  There's so many, so many things involved.
THERAPIST: I wonder the degree which you might be afraid or anxious about exposing yourself.
CLIENT: Ahh, that's a possibility. I don't know that anybody would be able to understand (sighs) or care.
THERAPIST: Well, I'm struck by the contradiction and that you are coming here for help.
CLIENT: I'm on it... (crosstalk)
THERAPIST: ... (crosstalk) on the one hand, but on the other that you feel so pessimistic.
CLIENT: Well, I guess that doesn't contradict to me. (laughs)  Uhm, I guess, I'd come to a point in my life where I realized that something has to be done.  Ah... (crosstalk)
THERAPIST: What would you say has got you to that point?
CLIENT: Ahhh. A couple of things.  I turned 45, my husband and I hadn't really been husband and wife for many years, uhm and that we don't share, we don't—I don't know if feel fulfilled being married to him, the children are basically off doing their thing and they're with him and I'm not a part of their life, and ah, (deep breaths) my father was recently within the year diagnosed with the lung cancer, and I don't really care if he's not going to be around.  I don't know how much that may sound but ah, my mother was 45 when she died.  I am—I want something more with her—from, from life, for the rest of my life.
THERAPIST: Well, it sounds very much like the, the circumstances of your life, uhm, have, have emotionally throw you back on your own.
CLIENT: Uh-huh.
THERAPIST:  And your the father's illness, your age have made you sort of reflect a bit,  let more that is beginning to come to the picture -
CLIENT: Uh-huh.
THERAPIST: What is the difficulty with your husband?
CLIENT: (sighs) We don't have a lot in common.  Uhm, it seems, uhm, he doesn't really think I have interest in ah, in my having no one.  Uhm, we don't get the same pleasures, we don't ah, we don't have the same kind of enjoyment from the things that we do.  He does his work, he enjoys his work, I suppose.  He doesn't like discussing anything that's going on with his head with me.  I don't discuss anything with him either, as a matter of fact, because I basically, don't think he's interested.  And ah, I'm not really close with my boy because primarily, I've been busy with my work.
THERAPIST: What is your work?
CLIENT: I'm a photographer.
THERAPIST: I know this semester, you, you were away of life. What, what took you away?
CLIENT: Well, assignments.  I would, I would go out for, you know, few days on work assignment and then come home and then—(sighs) I used to love my work, you know, I used to really enjoy going in the excitement of the job and ah, I did ignore, I don't really care about that either.  I don't get as much fulfillment over that. (murmurs)  And that I speak kinda sad?
THERAPIST: How sad?
CLIENT: How sad?  Well, I don't know how to answer that.
THERAPIST: When you feel down, how down do you feel?
CLIENT: Hmmm.  Like I just ah, sort of wanna just sit and (inaudible 00:06:25.03)
THERAPIST: Ever had thoughts of suicide?
CLIENT: No. (murmurs)
THERAPIST: Mm-hmmm.  Trouble sleeping?
CLIENT: Yes.  Uh-huh.  Yes, I do.  Yeah, problems falling asleep, I-I-I lay awake a lot of times and, and wonder what kinds of things I could do to change my life.
THERAPIST: Have you ever had loss of appetite?  Loss of weight?
CLIENT: Uhmmm.  Maybe just a bit, but not as much as I would like. (laughs)
THERAPIST: Concentration did for (inaudible 00:07:01.09)
CLIENT: At times, yes.  Focusing.
THERAPIST: When you're in this situation with your husband, how do you handle it?
CLIENT: If we were in the same room and ah, restless and—well, ah, I could try to initiate the conversation and ah, it's usually ah, one- or two-word answers and ah, he's usually got his nose in the paper or watching sports on T.V., or he's just not, (sighs) interested, he doesn't care.
THERAPIST: And, and what happens to you and your feelings when that happens?
CLIENT: Well, I just sort of, I just sort of feel that I, I guess it's just not important then I just sort of shut up and watch T.V. or...
THERAPIST: Withdraw.
CLIENT: Uh-huh.
THERAPIST: I don't really have girlfriends to call, I don't—I never had really been one for that, you know, coffee-clutches on all that crap. I don't do that. But that, so I kinda keep things on the side, you know.
THERAPIST: S-some thing  ah, when, when you're in it with your husband, and he doesn't respond ah, w-what, what is it that prevents you from pursuing it with him?
CLIENT: Ahh, fear ah, he'll get mad at me. Ah, ahh, you know, and raise his voice, and I just can't stand that, I cannot stand that.  And uhm, i-it's like, "What's the matter with you, Linda?"  "You're never satisfied, everything's fine, we have a nice home, two healthy kids, it's like, you know, can't you just be happy?"
THERAPIST: It seems when, when, when you get that, it's sort of, overwhelmed your sense of self.
CLIENT: I don't know what to do with that, it's just that he doesn't seem to understand.
THERAPIST: Okay. When it comes to supporting yourself and in this kind of stress, somehow, something happens that interferes.
CLIENT: Supporting myself?  Right.  There's really no one. I don't have the strength or the know-how to... (crosstalk)
THERAPIST: Just a few, don't feel you have the right to?
CLIENT: The right to be strong in the situation?
THERAPIST: Right.
CLIENT: I could be, (pause) could be—never thought of that way.
THERAPIST: Can you say any other possible reflections on this?
CLIENT: Do I think other reflections of this?
THERAPIST: "Other reflections of that," I said.
CLIENT: No.
THERAPIST: In other areas of your life?
CLIENT: Well, what's the feels... (murmurs)  Many of these things, I, I guess, I really uhm, I really don't rely on other people for anything.  I hate to ask for help.  I hate to ask for support because, ah, I'm just not used to, and for getting it. Ahh, so and I, and I'm afraid to appear to anybody that I, I need help because I don't wanna look like them weak or incompetent or, or you know.
THERAPIST: Well, anyway, when if you'll say you have to do that, there's no sense or expectation that you will, will get it, is the op—opposite you're not gonna get it.
CLIENT: Right.
THERAPIST: I might—I guess that very strong influences you come in here (coughs) for treatment.
CLIENT: It probably does.
THERAPIST: I need thoughts about where this may come from.
CLIENT: Well, I guess from what I've seen on T.V. and from the things that I've read that a lot of the way we are today is result of what I've some influence from my childhood that, I guess ahh, and I guess because I was very close to my mother and I lost her at a relatively young age, and ah, I really lost the only person that I, I feel like, really loved and uhm, trusted.  And my father took over, when she died, raising a son, I couldn't stand him really.  Don't like him at all, don't like him. And ahh, (sniffs) he was not a very understanding kind person. And I had two brothers who were, I don't know, they, they did boy things on.  I just never really had anybody, you know.
THERAPIST: How old when she died?
CLIENT: Ahm, about 13. Thirteen... (murmurs)
THERAPIST: How's truly does your reaction that time?
CLIENT: Very strong.
THERAPIST: That troubled school?
CLIENT: Uh-huh.  Call him, troubled school, I think I anything I probably didn't really change with school, so as my work, grades and that?  You know, I wouldn't have wanna have done that cause she was sure proud of, I think, I did in school.  I wouldn't have wanted to disappoint her, you know, failing.  So I have kept my grades up and all.
THERAPIST: What other ways did that affect you? (coughs)
CLIENT: I don't think I really socialized with people very much at all.  Well, you know, I don't really wanna talk much with my father.  He wasn't a talker, anyway, so I don't—I really can't answer that in any other way than that.
THERAPIST: But it sounds as you described like with your mother you feel the bond?
CLIENT: Very much.
THERAPIST: And you did feel that she was supportive of you?
CLIENT: Absolutely.  And when I really lost my mother, I lost, I felt, my whole support system, my hope, my—person that I felt I wanted to be like, and uhm, and when she was gone, I didn't know how to do it anymore.  You know, but I used to sort of watch T.V. and watched the latest that I like on T.V. and you know, or hope that I could be like that, you know, like I'm... 
THERAPIST: So on the circumstance with your loss of your mother, you lost your guiding system?  Parental guiding system (ph).
CLIENT: Uh-hmm.
THERAPIST: And ah, I was just also then curious about the circumstances into getting married that you hope to, to make up for that with your husband?
CLIENT: Well, I guess, maybe.  Ah, I-I didn't date in high school and uhm, I went to school, college, and I had a few dates but uhm, you know, they were just going out for pizza, eating, whatever.  But then after I graduated, I met my husband, uhm, on a job, we sort of met at pi—we reached to... (crosstalk)
THERAPIST: This was your first job?
CLIENT: My first job?
THERAPIST: Yeah.
CLIENT: Oh, I haven't been on the other assignments but, ah...
THERAPIST: This was the year after you graduated?
CLIENT: No, I think it was in ah, second, tran-second, third year after graduate... (crosstalk)
THERAPIST: What sort of emotional state where you in at that time?
CLIENT: Ah, I was sort of like a, sort of maybe like a zombie. (laughs).
THERAPIST: Were you, ah, living at home or living in your apartment or...?
CLIENT: Oh, I had my own apartment. Yeah.  Uhm, but I had met him and, ah, he seemed very nice and he was , a little on the quiet side.  And ah, he, he asked me real questions about myself and ah, we did honest things together like a, well, just a lot of walk through conversation.  So I guess, I kinda began to trust him, sort of.  And ah, we dated and then we got married.
THERAPIST: And what about the early marriage years?
CLIENT: The early married years?  They were pretty decent, I mean, they were good. My husband is a very kind, kind of a person that normally, your average guy.  Your, you know, works in the art, half-decent provider, uhm, not very exciting, ah, you know, he's good with the kids.
THERAPIST: How about your sexual life, how was that?
CLIENT: How was it or how wasn't it?
THERAPIST: Both.
CLIENT: It was, I guess pretty much average since I really didn't have sex before I was married, I don't know, have really base of comparison but it seemed to be all right with him and it's fine with me.  But it's not really spectacular now.
THERAPIST: Let me see how I can, ah, put some on the list together... (crosstalk)
CLIENT: Okay.
THERAPIST: ... and see what you think of it.  It's sound to me like ah, (clears throat) you probably, did have a pretty good relationship with your mother, in which she was supportive of yourself.  And that before you could complete that task of becoming independent in yourself, you lost your mother, and this created such turmoil and maybe pain, about trying to, to complete, a sense of self it would guide you that you were protecting yourself, maybe was to give up that task and, and basically, shift your focus to others. (coughs)  Meanwhile, maybe kind of numbing your feelings, and then perhaps with your husband, his interest in you, raise sort of embrace (ph) on what were you with your mother.  And promise of, you know, restoring that, which maybe in the early days of the marriage, with everybody's easy children's of what, would seemed to be fulfilled.  But then as the marriage went on, it would become clearer and clearer that it was not.  Which sends you back emotionally, to the place where you were in before you got married.  In terms of being able to rely upon yourself and have confidence in yourself, in your dealings with others.  How does that strike you?
CLIENT: Think that's, ah, sounds pretty, pretty close I guess, uh, pretty close
THERAPIST: It's as if, for example, ah, you've made a point in here like your lack of trust in others, no one caring and particularly here in session with me, we basically, you know, come here to understand yourself, you have to put yourself out there in it.  It, it exacerbates the feeling that, you know, putting yourself in danger with this other person who doesn't care.  Who made you the same thing in which your mother did, may leave you high and dry.  So you put yourself back.  I was curious when I read in your history, that you try to go out to do some photographic things on your own, but you end up wondering around, correct?
CLIENT: Uh-huh.
THERAPIST: What's going on with you when you wonder around?
CLIENT: Why do I stop my friends (ph) and stuff?  My job?  Why do I stop that I... (crosstalk)
THERAPIST: What would you intend to do here?
CLIENT: Because I, I guess I really don't see a point in uhm, the efforts.
THERAPIST: I can return that around, and maybe say that when you have to activate yourself in that way, it brings on the depression and the depression takes away the drive to do it.
CLIENT: I don't know if I will call it depression?
THERAPIST: No. What would you call it?
CLIENT: Well, again, I'm not—I would prefer... (crosstalk)
THERAPIST: What's your feeling?  What would you call it?
CLIENT: I would just call it a "sadness" and a "futility" of sort.  I don't know if that's the same thing as depression but I, I don't know, depression or it's just seems such as serious word to me that I just wouldn't...
THERAPIST: Why, unless your sadness and futility, is only the idea of doing, activating yourself, brings on sadness and futility.  And, and so then you pull back to protect yourself against the sadness and futility.
CLIENT: Uh-huh. I do. It's like ah, I guess, when you have a feeling that you're really ah, wanna work very hard and do something, and like in my work ah, ah, in the past, ah, I've had, I've had good people help me and I've done good work for other people, but I guess really since my father became ill, they just sort of conduced (ph) up all those memories about my mother and losing her and then I start thinking about really what, what's the point of my work, money?  What's the point of uhm, what's the point of uhm, what's the point of going home tonight?   To watch T.V.?  You know, I, I just didn't understand, what is all this for?  I have no husband really, I have children who are gonna be off on their own, my father is dying, and I don't really care about it.  My mother is gone.  I have no real friends. Ahh...
THERAPIST: So you're put in the situation where you're all on your own by yourself in effect?
CLIENT: So what's that all for?
THERAPIST: But I think what it does, which you just described does it for—in a way, forces you, (clears throat) back on yourself.  A self that was in—had big problems when the time your mother died.  And you are able to make one kind of arrangement or another, to sort of, make it work, but all of this coming in at once, have exacerbated this thing, the sense, ah, the sense of loss associated both in relationships you can't trust, you can't feel that people were responding to you, they, they, they would leave you on the one hand.  And then, when you have to do something yourself on your own, it brings out this sense of sadness.  Ahh, so that you seem kind of stuck on the surface only.
CLIENT: Uh-huh.
THERAPIST: Which must be the reason why you came for treatment?
CLIENT: Alright.  I want to try from this point in my life to make things better with my husband and, and me.  There's anything I can do on that.
THERAPIST: Well, I'm, I'm struck again.  Remember, I asked you, when you do speak to your husband, you want more communication, he hasn't done it.
CLIENT: Uh-huh.
THERAPIST: And you have difficulty with staying with that and pursuing him because you feel, I suppose, you feel rejected and maybe depressed in throwing back on that feeling about yourself.
CLIENT: Uh-huh.
THERAPIST: And I, I noticed here, I, uhm, at the beginning of the session, you only had trouble focusing on yourself in story.  As if, if you focus on me, this will relieve you and make it easier to fill in from the difficulty you have inside your head, with yourself.  Can you follow me?
CLIENT: Sort of.
THERAPIST: Sort of? (laughs)  Uhm, so when you talk about what you want, you don't talk about that what you want for yourself, but for yourself and the other.
CLIENT: Uh-huh.
THERAPIST: So what I'm trying to say in all of this is, that I think, the more fundamental problem has to do with the way you feel about yourself, heavily, heavily influenced by the loss of your mother, and how it impels you to deal with whether it's work or with relationships.
CLIENT: Okay.
THERAPIST: Will you think about that?
CLIENT: I think, my mother's life, and her death had a very big impact on me.  And the, (coughs) I think that influenced a lot in my life and influenced me.  My father had a big impact...
THERAPIST: What will you like—let's look at this for a moment.  Uhm, what were your, your years like before 13, before she died?
CLIENT: They were just like a regular kid, I think, ah, you know, we go to church, we go to school, we have dinner, the family, ahh, my father was always not really—he was not a very kind person to my mother, either, he was not—fun was never a part of it when he was around.
THERAPIST: Any problems in school or...?
CLIENT: Mm-hmm.  No.
THERAPIST: Did you have friends at school? Out of school?
CLIENT: Uhmm,  Well, I talk to, to, you know, people that sat around me and we would, uhm, have, on a playground, things like that.  But as far as friends coming home and sleep over and that (sighs) not very often.  Not very often.
THERAPIST: Why, or why do you think, why was that?  Did you, did you see yourself as different in that regard, from your peers at that time?
CLIENT: I don't know that I really analyze that part of my life very much.  I don't think ah, I felt it that, that time different, you know.
THERAPIST: Uh-huh.
CLIENT: I was just the way I was, uhm, that time.
THERAPIST: In this, it was, this way right up through left (coughs) and see right up to 10, 11, 12?
CLIENT: Uh-huh.
THERAPIST: Is it possible that you were very heavily involved with your mother?  So that you didn't feel so much of the need for others.
CLIENT: Always to share a lot what she, she ah—we used to ah, work in the kitchen together and work in the, the garden and ah, whenever I've been home to do what she would go over with me and we would sort of spend time together, and she taught me how to—well, I tried to, tried to learn how to knit and crochet and that kind of thing that ah, but ah, that wasn't successful but (coughing sounds) you know me, I just enjoyed my mother. I love my mother very much.
THERAPIST: We know that, that is very clear because when you start to talk about her your face lights up, which is in such contrast to, in other way you feel—Are you, were you, your mother's favorite, would you say?
CLIENT: Probably. (laughs)
THERAPIST: Uh-huh. So in these senses that we are now, we're not getting a little better picture of why the loss was so deep, because of the depths of the involvement, would you mind?
CLIENT: Well, I never really got a chance to, you know, talk to her.
THERAPIST: Meaning?
CLIENT: Meaning, ah, well, I guess now, as a, as a grown-up woman, you know, there are things that I would like to hear from my children.  Things, whatever, just sort of, will be particular for child to parent, that I wish I could have said to my mother but being a child when she died, I did know, you know. And I, I feel that, that sense of uhm, just a frustration that I never got to say what I'm sure she would not have heard, you know.
THERAPIST: It's of loss.
CLIENT: No, what I know that, she would have loved to hear because she didn't hear anything from my father like, you know, kindness or lovingness or anything—loving words.  And I, I just felt that part should have been my job to have done that.  I, I don't know.
THERAPIST: How did she die?
CLIENT: She had a brain aneurysm.
THERAPIST: Did she die suddenly or... (crosstalk)
CLIENT: Suddenly.
THERAPIST: Uh-huh.  So also when somebody dies suddenly, there is no time to get adjusted to the idea that they're gone... (crosstalk)
CLIENT: No. (crosstalk)  Uh-huh.
THERAPIST: Did you ah, did you, uhm—when you were so upset after she died, did you search out teachers or somebody, you know, some older women to—as a bridge of some kind?
CLIENT: No.  No.
THERAPIST: Perhaps the... (crosstalk)
CLIENT: But ...
THERAPIST: ... sense of loss was too deep.
CLIENT: Yeah.  All I had were dolls, you know, I used to ah, I'm sure you don't, but ahh, (sniffs) you know, I can play with dolls and talked to them and...
THERAPIST: When you are with your dolls, would you play the role of mother who...?
CLIENT: Friend.  I would never be the mother.
THERAPIST: Why do you say it that way?
CLIENT: I guess, because I have too much of a high regard for... (crosstalk)
THERAPIST: For your mother.
CLIENT: ... for—for my mother.
THERAPIST: Uh-huh.  Did your, did your mother ever, ever inside of kind of problems?
CLIENT: Health or...?
THERAPIST: Emotional problem... (crosstalk)
CLIENT: Emotional. (sniffs)
THERAPIST: ... of that kind.
CLIENT: My mother was always like a cleaning fanatic, you know, she, she was always doing something like that around the house and I think, like she did it primarily to please my father.  He was a pain in the ass.  Excuse me, but (sniffs) so she never had a lot of fun in her life and ah, seems like she always worked—I, I just don't think she was really happy. I, I think they had gone to marriage counseling, ahh... (crosstalk)
THERAPIST: Uh-huh.
CLIENT: ... briefly, but I don't know what that was about so...
THERAPIST: So is that task for your mother or troubled doing what she wanted to do?
CLIENT: Oh, I'm sure. I'm sure, she did.
THERAPIST: She done with the focus with your father?
CLIENT: On the house and us, the kids, uhm, doing what he wanted her to do.
THERAPIST: Was she ah, cleaning up and all,  what ahh, trying to have a perfect—was she a perfectionist in any other way?
CLIENT: (sniffs) No.  I don't know, I didn't really see, ah, didn't see her as a perfectionist.  I saw her as a mother who was always just keeping things clean and ah, don't cause any situations where it makes daddy upset and uhm, you know, don't fight—the kids don't fight.
THERAPIST: What about ah, when your father may have been putting you down or something like that?  What now?
CLIENT: As a child?
THERAPIST: Yeah.
CLIENT: Uhm, she—did she intervene or anything?  Not really.
THERAPIST: Or did she encourage you to intervene?
CLIENT: Oh, heavens!  No.
THERAPIST: What about... (crosstalk)
CLIENT: ... she didn't.
THERAPIST:  ... ahh.  Uh-huh... (crosstalk)
CLIENT: Uh-huh.
THERAPIST: What about, lets say, uhm, (indistinct sound) when you want to do something, what will had it would be?
CLIENT: What do you mean "do something"?
THERAPIST: Well, when you want to do something in yourself, you know, you want to... (crosstalk)
CLIENT: Go to the movies?  Research?
THERAPIST: Well, maybe more than that.  Something in school or some activity.
CLIENT: Go to a basketball game or something?
THERAPIST: Uh-huh.  Some freedom from what was going on at home.
CLIENT: At home.  Well, see, I never really (sighs) I-I slept... (crosstalk)
THERAPIST: Didn't come up?
CLIENT: Yeah, I never really did any of that social stuff at school.  I—you know, my brother's did that, I just didn't.  I was kind of a home person, you know.  Uhm...
THERAPIST: I know you're sort of uhm, content in, at least, in this relationship with your mother.
CLIENT: Uh-huh.
THERAPIST: What's that?
CLIENT: I'm sorry.  Uhm, it's not that my mother and I, you know, I, I was always with her, at her, you know, but I had such a friends—a sense of security that I didn't really need to seek out anything else.  It was just a calmness, it was ahh... (crosstalk)
THERAPIST: Uh-huh.  Uh-huh.  But what one thing comes to mind here, we are talking about your mother, ah, you know, when your father was putting you down or maybe some of the others, she wouldn't intervene, she wouldn't stand up for herself, with her husband, huh?  Is that right?
CLIENT: Right.  She never really back-talked him or anything.
THERAPIST: And here we see you having the same problem with your husband.
CLIENT: Well, but he doesn't yell at me, unlike my father yelled at her.  He just doesn't do anything.
CLIENT: Okay. (laughs)  It makes him sound bad but isn't the same category, ahh, in other words ahh, a difficulty ah, supporting yourself under fire is giving, you know, you lacked more communication that he—he's not providing it.  And when you say something to him, he does not—he's sort of, evades it and then you pursue him and say, "Love, we have to talk about this.  We're gonna, we're gonna have to do business about this, you think?
(typing sounds in the background)
CLIENT: It's like no matter what I say or how I'm feeling is incorrect.  If he doesn't wanna talked about it, that's the way I should feel, that we shouldn't talked about it.  So it's like, "God has spoken, so shut up.  Dad doesn't wanna speak, so don't talk," you know, it's kinda like that.
THERAPIST: That must been—is it that way with your father, too?
CLIENT: Well, when he spoke, my mother listened.
THERAPIST: Ahh, I supposed you kids were supposed to listen, too.
CLIENT: My kids are supposed to listen to my husband? (crosstalk)
THERAPIST: You.  You and your brothers.
CLIENT: Oh.  Yeah, they weren't—they were supposed—supposed to listen to my father. (clears throat)  Yeah.  Of course, my brothers are always kinda getting into the little trouble like there... (crosstalk)
THERAPIST: But not you? (crosstalk)
CLIENT: Huh?
THERAPIST: But not you?
CLIENT: Never me.  I was always like, "Little miss good girl,"  Always.
THERAPIST: (clears throat) Focusing on in pleasing the other...?
CLIENT: Always.
THERAPIST: ... than expressing yourself?
CLIENT: Right.
THERAPIST: Which is I think, the basic problem that comes all the way up to this day.  I think, it rep—ah, the expressions itself, you know, your problem with your husband, even when you talked about him and, you know, well, he—his "God speaks and so you're not supposed to," it is making of him a much more important person than he really is?  I'm supposed to... (crosstalk)
CLIENT: I felt that.
THERAPIST: ... say—Huh? (crosstalk)
CLIENT: I felt that, too.
THERAPIST: And what happens when you think that?
CLIENT: Well, what am I supposed to do about it?  I, I think that he thinks, he's more important than he really is, but who's gonna say—who's gonna tell him that?  Hah!  No, I don't think so.
THERAPIST: See, as soon as you come to the, the brink of supporting yourself, especially when it's in conflict with the other or maybe in conflict with the other.  You begin to feel, I think, maybe a sense of uhm, there's no point to it, as sense of helplessness and then you back off.  And then the situation continues and you feel more depressed and more angry.  And probably, would have withdrawn more.  So that, what I'm trying to get out here is that this business of being able to support yourself, (sniffs) withdraw now the critical aspects of the problem and the difficulty whether you cursed it, uhm, affects all the other, the depression or desire to withdraw.  I think it has other reflections and you sense that you really haven't done in your life what you wanted to do.  Right?
CLIENT: Right.  I haven't.
THERAPIST: Well, I suspect that this is also one of the reasons you haven't activated yourself in following through we talked about the incidence with the photography in going on, ah, I, I think emotionally come up against the same barrier that you came up against when you want to talk to your husband.  When you want to talk to him, he doesn't, he doesn't respond, so rather than, rather that persist in order to support yourself.  You feel kinda depressed and hopeless about it and give up... (crosstalk)
CLIENT: Uh-huh.
THERAPIST: ... and it maybe the same thing in terms of developing yourself—your own independent self in your life and building a life that gratifies that part of you.  And the only, only pieces that we have at the moment is, you wanna go out and I'm sure it's reflection on that to do something with the photography.  You get out there and end up wandering around because you feel, "What's the point?" Again, "What's the point in supporting myself?"  "Where is this—where is the—your payback?"
CLIENT: Uh-huh. So, so what can I do?  How, how can I, how can I be this person that I should be?
THERAPIST: Okay. So let me ask you, what I—what I'll try to do here, (clears throat) is to lay out the problem, and, and I wonder why your first response to looking at it, is to ask me, I will solve it.  Isn't that a repetition of the same thing?
CLIENT: But I... (crosstalk)
THERAPIST: But you say, you're, you're clearly ahh, you're a bright person and you, you have a lot of capacities, but confronted with this issue, I mean, my describing it to you is the way putting it in front of you. It's, It's a, it's analogous to the, the difficulty with your husband.  I'm saying here it is and then, what do you feel when I say that?  What is it that imposed you to turn to me and say, "What should I do about it?"
CLIENT: Well, I spent some much time looking inside myself, and asking myself, "What can I do?"  "What should I be saying?"  "What should I be doing?"  And, and I don't come up with any answers. So you're telling me exactly, the kind of things that I, I guess, I know, you know, but I still don't have an answer for myself.  Unless, you just want me to stand in front of my husband between him and the T.V. and say, put my hands on my hips and say, "Listen bastard, we're talking."
THERAPIST: What's the matter with that?
CLIENT: I guess, there's nothing wrong with that, except that I'm afraid that he'll say something and hurt my feelings... (laughs)
THERAPIST: And he probably will... (crosstalk)
CLIENT: I know, I just... (crosstalk)
THERAPIST: ... and so what?
CLIENT: I know, but what would I do with that, that hurt or that pain or I'm afraid I'd start crying, you know.
THERAPIST: Oh, it must lead something else... (crosstalk)
CLIENT: ... and that I'd be weak and I'll show him that I'm weak.  Is that all right?  And I just continue out from there, crying in the middle of telling him what I want him to know?
THERAPIST: But what's so bad about that?
CLIENT: I don't know.  I don't know.
THERAPIST: Or could it be that, that I'm thinking now about when you were telling us about when you were a child.  Ahh, that should be you were a good girl.  Translation of a "good girl" is somebody who, who figures out what other people are expecting and tries to stay within those limits and so forth, huh?
CLIENT: Yes.
THERAPIST: And perhaps, this is another way—good girl's another way of trying to, to, to describe of what I've said, "If you have a problem with yourself, your sense of self and expressing it.  One way to protect yourself is to be a good girl and focus on others then, the problem doesn't bother you and never come out."  So when you have to do this with your husband, it's like you're going against this lifelong pattern of being a good girl, and that looks like disaster.  Whereas, you know, real life situation you're in, it is, uhm, might possibly be ah, the major answer toward if there's any answer.  As always what you have been doing is—has not helped very much, huh?
CLIENT: Do you think I should take some steps of being a bad girl? (people laugh)
THERAPIST: Well, do you realize what you're saying, that for you to support yourself, was to be a bad girl?  And bad girls get rejected and bad girls get punished and left and all of those bad things.
CLIENT: Any of those people who end up being like that?  In a better position than I am, at this, at this point in their lives?  I mean, they're better adjusted, or better more assertive?
THERAPIST: Well, let me, let me put it somewhat different way. As I, ah, listen to you and hear you, uhm, a critical part of the problem has been the difficulty focusing on yourself and in developing an independent sense of self that is solid, and can guide you, heavily influence, in this regard by the loss of your mother, before it was fully developed.  And now, at this age your, your complaint is that you are not as developed as you would like.  Your life is, you may have been got into the things you'd like and so forth.  Those are direct results of that, so that someone who has not experienced what you did—who hasn't lost a mother, so to speak, and is able to develop that in adolescence, they make a business of life, of trying to arrange it in such a way that it provides satisfaction for that part of themselves.  So that, you know, life is made up of these different, uhmm, you might say "time building blocks" and you can ignore some of the things that happened in your 20's and then your 30's.  But when you get to your age, and especially, with the death of your mother at that age, your children getting old enough to move out of the home, your father getting ill.  All of these things are powerful influences to turn you around to look at the track records, so to speak, and to be upset.  And the advantage of that, of course, is you may not see that way, but the advantage of that is that it brings you for treatment where you can finally do something about it.
CLIENT: Okay.
THERAPIST: Not okay.  How does it would sound to you?
CLIENT: Well, it sounds, exactly right.  I mean, sounds exactly right.  The thing is, I guess, I mean, how through treatment am I going to be able to change?  I'm asking you again, am I?
THERAPIST: Right.
CLIENT: Sorry.
THERAPIST: But that is a big step forward, isn't it right?  Why is it a big step forward?
CLIENT: Because I'm trusting you to give me the answer that I need, I guess so... (crosstalk)
THERAPIST: Yeah.
CLIENT: ... I'm trusting you.
THERAPIST: Are you?
CLIENT: Kind of... (crosstalk)
THERAPIST: It's, it's a big step forward.  Could you question yourself?  You said, "I'm doing it again," which means to me, that you are willing to reflect upon it and try to better understand why you do this.
CLIENT: Hmm.
THERAPIST: For you, to look at the future, and I think to look at this is a flannel (ph) with feelings from the past that it blinds you and you can't see the reality of the present or the future.  They are all infiltrated with this problem from the past.  At times about to—now you can ask me a question if you want to.
CLIENT: Oh, what can I do? (laughter) (crosstalk)
THERAPIST: Oh, we're back to ground zero. (laughs) (clears throat)
CLIENT: Well, when I go home tonight, would you suggest that I, just sort of uhm, approach my husband and we start with that stuff?
THERAPIST: Listen to yourself, what did you hear yourself say?
CLIENT: I don't know.  Can I just start again? (laughs)
THERAPIST: It's as you need my "imprimatur" (deep breaths)
CLIENT: Yup.
THERAPIST: My state of approval.
CLIENT: Permission.
THERAPIST: For you to do what you think is in your best interest.  And there is the problem, right there.
CLIENT: And should I tell you what I'm going to do?
THERAPIST: Oh, it's up to you. (murmuring) (laughs)
CLIENT: (sighs).
THERAPIST: We're playing ping-pong here? (laughs) You try to put it on my lap.  I mean, you do like try and put it back in your lap.
CLIENT: I'll go home and I'll talk to my husband and I'll try to be a little more assertive enough.
THERAPIST: A little more and not enough.
CLIENT: All I have to be is very assertive.  I'll climb on his lap.
THERAPIST: Not a bad start. (laughs) (clears throat)
CLIENT: Okay.
THERAPIST: Okay. Then you have the opportunity to come back and we review and maybe get deeper with it and so forth.  That's a way it's done. (clears throat)  Okay... (crosstalk)
CLIENT: So you gonna— what your time where you said that's a good way to start.  I should be kind to him. I should just kinda like...
THERAPIST: Oh, no.  I didn't think that's what you had in mind.  I thought I was just an opener or to get started.
CLIENT: Well, being kind to him is coming and sitting on his lap, I don't do that when I'm feeling... (crosstalk)
THERAPIST: Then, I mean, you have to ask yourself if what's you're going to do is disagree with him and confront him, is it a good idea to start it by climbing on his lap?  I mean, that's a question, it is not like alright, sometimes it is a good idea and sometimes not.  It depends on the relationship.
CLIENT: Yeah.  It depends on, yeah, a lot of things, yeah.
THERAPIST: Okay.  I appreciate your coming in.
CLIENT: Thank you very much.
THERAPIST: Welcome. Okay.
THERAPIST: Well, I hope you enjoy this ah, interesting series.  Ah, couple of things with the viewer if you keep in mind ahh, as you begin to process some of the content.  For one, the case of Linda was developed primarily to portray someone who was very—a dependent personality disorder with ah, so many anxieties and some depression.  And the, the fact that she responded the way she did it the five therapists had much to do with the type of personality that ah, that she exhibited.  Have we used the different ah, case obviously, they would have been some difference in disposition with regard to the response to the various theories.  So we may have had a completely different reaction, depending on the type of individual that was found in that role.  Anything you can need to keep in mind ah, ah, for processing purposes is that, none of the ah, five theorists were ever present during the other role plays with Linda.  So therefore, each role play was exclusive for that particular theorist.  So hopefully, what we've ah, been able to witness is ahh, a fairly ah, pure response of this particular case to five different theorist and hopefully, this will ah, service some culmination in terms of your education with counseling theory seminars.
END TRANSCRIPT
