TRANSCRIPT OF AUDIO FILE:
______________________________________________________________________________
BEGIN TRANSCRIPT:
THERAPIST: Hello. 
CLIENT: I had a feeling of coming here in the wake of a perfectly pleasant day and I was kind [inaudible] to spend an hour bringing you down.
THERAPIST: Do you have that feeling? 
CLIENT: Oh yes.
THERAPIST: I mean now?
CLIENT: Well, no...
THERAPIST: That you were going to... [00:01:04]
CLIENT: Yes, no, no, I don't—no I don't notice in you but I'm always—well (pause) when I'm feeling energetic like now and when [inaudible at 00:01:25], and when I'm not simply having [stimulating relationships] (ph) like math which I assume is sort of stimulating relationship (ph) but it's a good way to pass an hour, I don't know. It says I can be, have a great day and it's sunny out and I'm taking a walk and then it's like oh boy, all right, so I'm going to [inaudible at 00:01:44] and certainly approve. Recalibrate and be neutral. I don't know.
THERAPIST: But I kind of go in and with—I go with the mood. Hmm.
CLIENT: So the mood is—so, background, Karen has been—there's mom has been with us for 12 days, had been with us. We [inaudible at 00:02:25] fine and the last time we talked about crosswords and stuff. And so Saturday night we went out to a new place, which was fantastic, there's a very privately enforced and cemetery. And cool new club, had a great time. Karen was like get up here, Brian (ph), live a little, get out of here, because always, I often don't, usually don't in fact, carry a playbook. So I need a beer or I'm driving so I shouldn't. So I had a beer. [00:03:07]
Had a beer; feeling festive. Finished that. Let's have another. So I get another beer. And we walked in there so it wasn't an issue of driving. And normally if I'm going to drink two beers is certainly my max, absolutely two pints that's absolutely max. So she remembers and she's oh no, it's all right. So, no, no, no, it's alright, and she's he'll have another beer.
THERAPIST: This is three now?
CLIENT: Yes.
THERAPIST: Okay, so that's over your usual method.
CLIENT: Yes, absolutely. So she orders, he'll have another. So I'm like all right, run with it right? They come from a pub culture. So last night she wants to have a good time so of course I have a beer. It's going to be fine, it's great, it's fantastic, very pleasant. But we have to get up at five in the morning to take her to the airport. So I'm factoring this in, thinking if I can sleep in, fine. But I'm aware of the fact that I'm going to get six hours of sleep, which is not enough. [00:04:17]
So, get up early, fine, go to the airport; afterwards take another drive on the bus because there was a house that I saw; fine, fine, fine. We go to—yesterday was our first open house. So we spent the morning, the place is always immaculate, as I don't need to tell you because Barbara, right? 
THERAPIST: You guys are selling, I didn't know.
CLIENT: Oh, oh I didn't tell you. Yes.
THERAPIST: [inaudible at 00:04:50]? I don't want to get off the track. Yes, go on.
CLIENT: Yes, well that's been the thing that's been going on recently, which has really served to rock my boat because I like very much. It's a very nice place in a great neighborhood, I know the neighbors, I like the neighbors. It's just terrific in all kinds of ways and I'd really like to make a claim because it's very progressive, unlike where it feels like you're still in the country even though it's only two miles away. You feel like you're like...
THERAPIST: Yes, yes.
CLIENT: Nothing wrong with the area, it's just that I'm not of that mindset. [00:05:39]
THERAPIST: It's different...
CLIENT: I don't want homes with massive yards where you see lots of political things in the yard. [inaudible at 00:05:51] you do what's [inaudible at 00:05:54]. 
THERAPIST: So that's where you're looking?
CLIENT: Well because the area itself, to buy a house in this area it's 600 grand for it right? So for Barbara it's where 450 is, looks nice. So, thus, and so you go to enough places and walk the rest, it's okay and it's mostly Jesus this is far away. There's a train, it's like an urban valley, but it's cool, you [00:06:35]. And you got what you need. So you can spend the day, you can survive who a whole while without leaving. [00:06:48]
Anyway, so and she's of the same physically demands, Sagittarius. So we went out yesterday and looked at a couple of houses. And then afterwards—and also very aware of the fact that our house has been completely depersonalized because it's going to be an open house. Right, so there's that very weird feeling that says we've left and I was happy the other day mowing for the lawn and very happily doing that and weeding and so forth. And we have siding, right, so I was washing that down and scrubbing it with soap because even though it's clean, sometimes on the north side there's a little bit of green that develops. [00:07:38]
So I'm washing that down and then spend more time inside making this neat, and then all the pictures go in and everything, right? You hide your valuables and you're thinking about your place. Thinking about what do I want people to see? It's a very weird way to be. And this is somebody who doesn't even like, I don't like Facebook, I don't like—I don't want anybody to know anything about me. And now all of these strangers are walking in. [00:08:08]
So they're going to arrive, it's 1:00 to 2:00. Fine, we said well we'll go. So we're looking at places and we're looking at places like they're looking at our place. And there's a very weird feeling about that. Plus I hadn't had much sleep. And it's Sunday, 1:00 p.m. So I'm thinking I'm recording the red zone so I can fast forward through. Just thinking, and I told Barbara, prior, I said why are open houses on a Sunday? She said when else would they be? 
And so if you're wanting to get as many people as possible men on Sunday are not...and she's no, no, no, people looking for houses are serious about it. And I said well maybe but is it possible that men sort of go along driven by the woman's energy to go and see these places and they do so and what it does is it creates tension. She says no. She goes there's not that many football fans. And I said it's a multi-billion dollar industry; there are a lot of football fans. And if our Patriots team was a 1:00 and not at night do you think I'd be happily going around? I would do it but there'd be tension because I'd be aware of missing it and not recording it. You're telling me... [00:09:35]
THERAPIST: A quarter of the television sets are on in New England.
CLIENT: ...fan?
THERAPIST: For the Patriots games a quarter of the television sets are on.
CLIENT: Yes. So she's like oh that's silly. I said I'm going to talk to our real estate agent. I mean Sunday at 1:00, are you kidding me? She goes well we can't do it on a Saturday. And I said why can't you do it on a Saturday? Why not? So there's that. [00:10:00]
So anyway we come back finally after looking around, looking at the area, said Jesus Christ, way the hell out there. And we come back and I'm tired, I'm exhausted, it's weird. Bunch of strangers walking through your house; I feel like the whole house needs to be cleaned again because of all the dirty fingers touching our stuff. So then I decide, I say I need to get into, I need to reconnect with myself; I need to just lie down and watch some football. This is all very weird. She says all right. She says I'm going to ride the bike; you watch football and then we'll have some lunch after this. 
So I'm lying there watching that quarter of the Formula 1 race, aware of the fact that holy hell it's just weird, like everything's put away. Our magnets, pictures; I mean we had magnets on the Fridge; they're gone. So there's that. So then last night, and so we know, tired last night, watched the game and that itself was peculiar because it's this situation where that's disorienting in the opposite way that putting your house up for open house is disorienting because the house you depersonalize whereas a game like last night, it is way too aggressive and personal and it is the wild west centers of no control. So you're a fan and you're watching this and you're thinking my God, they're fighting all the time. [00:11:52]
And there's the end of the game. It's midnight and I'm tired; of course I'm riveted. And I was like what a perfect ending. It's —I mean not perfect if you're a Patriots fan, but—I'm sorry about the [inaudible at 00:12:11]—the ball goes right over the top [inaudible at 00:12:17], it's not in or out, it's just—if the bars were a mile high it would hit the bar, that's what it looks like. And Belichick grabs the ref and it's like well of course it needs to be reviewed. And you can't throw the flag because it's within two minutes. And so, it's this big thing, I'm tired and I'm watching this. I can't believe this; this is crazy. The NFL is not within any sort of like touchstone, right? And now, no one knows what to do. Players don't know what the rules are. As a fan you're like I have no idea why that was a penalty. So that's sort of disorienting in the opposite way an open house is. [00:12:53]
So anyway, stayed late. While this is happening Barbara is looking at places and says there's a place called the Falls—I'm blanking the names entirely. The Falls, it's I'm blanking on the name, he said three hours, rooms, anyway. It's a very cool area of the city. And last night we're talking about lofts, there's these really cool lofts. And I'm looking at them thinking wow, how cool would that be? It's incredibly modern, and there's a lap pool and there's a gym and there's a sauna and Jacuzzi. And it's like hmm, but I'm thinking that's not a house. [00:13:56]
And the whole point, for Barbara—I'm happy where we are—the whole point for Barbara is I'm sick of Jordan; I don't like hearing Jordan. In the morning—Jordan lives on the second floor—it's the noise, it's the noise. Which, you know, but I—the alarm goes off in the morning and I hear his radio and it's annoying but, so granted a house is preferable; you don't have somebody walking above you. [00:14:26]
But it's [inaudible] Loft and I'm like with a loft the seams are higher and thicker most likely. There's, unless you're on the third floor, fourth floor or fifth floor, someone's above you. So I'm thinking it's good, I'm glad Barbara's talking of lofts, but...Anyway, so I get up this morning, drive, yes, let's be cool. Checkout. Ten minutes from where I live. It's 10 minutes from where we live. So we—10 minutes from where we live. You feel like you're in another world because if you're off your map inferences, which is it's own—it's weird how close we are to places that are just entirely Black, entirely economically disenfranchised. [00:15:20]
THERAPIST: right next to...
CLIENT: Yes, so there's a barrier, right? There's, we live at the cemetery and, so doesn't matter who's who right? So it's very nice. It's a destination, a destination obviously if you're dead. I mean it's in a place you go and visit, right and there's art and structure and culture. So you get inside of that and drive a little further and there's the...
THERAPIST: Arboretum? Arboretum. [00:16:07]
CLIENT: Not the arboretum, it's the [inaudible at 00:16:14] something else. Anyway, there's this big institute there and it's very nice. And you go further and all the sudden you cross the street and you go whoa, where am I at? All the sudden you're in the outland and it's no joke. At night you would not want to drive through there. 
THERAPIST: I wish I had a map up here.
CLIENT: Only ten minutes away. So we look around and we're like cool and we're excited [inaudible at 00:16:53]. Check out, drive around, drive around, drive around, I'm driving around the side streets, side streets, side streets, find [inaudible at 00:16:58] in their own market, take pictures. She had some things that she hadn't seen when she had gone and taken pictures. Then we're back. Now granted I'm driving, right, so I don't know where I am. So I want to pay attention because it's a weird place. It's not like everything is at right angles, so there's—driving around and you don't know where you are in the city, it is inherently stressful. Especially when you're already distracted by the fact that you're looking at everything around you not just as a street to get from Point A to Point B, but you're assessing neighborhoods as you're driving. There's a lot of information to be marked. [00:17:46]
Anyway, so we're back and Barbara's going talk, talk, as girls, women are [inaudible at 00:17:59] sort of playing house in a way. It's like going shopping for dresses and they just try on lots and lots of dresses, try it on, try it on, try it on, try it on. Which is what I told Barbara. I said you can't expect me to match your enthusiasm. It's not that I'm not interested but just like I don't go and try on clothes for a couple hours with my friends, I'm not going to simply look. I need to go into a house and compare it to what we have, and so it's just comparing directly, not zooming hypothetical. And I don't get carried away with the fantasy of it. [00:18:34]
And so on the way back she's asking so what do you think? I said well—meanwhile I'm trying to get, the drive through a sketchy neighborhood, get back to where we are—I said well the loft is kind of like living in the city and the other place is like living in the country. She goes no it's not. She goes it's only two blocks down to the village. I said I'm aware of that. I was making a little bit of hyperbole but a loft with no yard, we have assigned parking and there's a lap pool and a Jacuzzi and a gym, and it's very tony, compared to a little quaint colonial with a yard. Two different lifestyles. [00:19:39]
So that ends. And I said oh and also, I said I find this taxing. Well and that sort of sets her off. Oh, you don't want to move, blah, blah, blah. So it sets off this long heated Barbaraate that went on and on and on and on. And so then there's me saying if I don't say anything you feel like I'm not interested but then if you ask me how I feel and I say it, and it happens to be in contrast to what you are feeling or thinking then you think that I don't care or that I'm Barbaraating with you. [00:20:24]
So then what I have to do, while driving trying to figure it out how to get home and deal with construction, because there's a big hole in the road and there's cops standing there not helping the traffic situation, you're wanting me to drive and also understand exactly how you're feeling about it and imagine exactly what your fantasy is and give you commentary that matches that so there is no conflict. And that's a lot to do while driving. She said I don't want you to just echo. I'm thinking, I said well I offered a perfectly fair response to two places we've looked at and that was unsatisfactory. Anyway, so argument, argument, argument. [00:21:21]
THERAPIST: What is so—just to interrupt, what do you feel when you raise that and she reacts that way? What kind of...
CLIENT: Well because she, and I point this out to her, I say I'm not trying to be snarky really but it's like, I said, you paint with this, you take little things that I do and then you paint very broadly. And I said, I say it's taxing and then you interpret that as meaning I don't want to move, I don't want to do any of this, when in fact I'm the one who found the address of the lofts this morning, put it into the phone, figured out how to get there, drove us there, was intrigued, said we should go in and talk to them, had a conversation with the people, organized a tour to go tomorrow, and then drove all around looking at various places, finding places that you yourself had not found, showing enthusiasm. And then after all of this, because driving is tiring, and driving around for 2-1/2 hours, I say it's taxing when the fact is I'm tired and everything that I've done has been proactive and encouraging and genuinely positive. [00:22:49]
But I said I'm not going to get carried away with fantasy of how life can be and I said we can't let the purchase of a house be some sort of proxy solution if you're feeling bored, if you're feeling whatever. You can't let the idea of a house and the fantasy of living in a new area be some sort of solution to something. We have to be very clear where we are and where we want to go and what we want. Right now we have all this great stuff, it's a great location, it's a great place. It's great neighbors. It's great, great, great in every way. [00:23:37]
I say we have to be clear that in getting a house we don't want to lose anything that we currently have, or we don't anybody living in a bus, we want a driveway. A loft, however cool that is doesn't give us a driveway; it gives us a parked slot and, and unless we're on the top floor, we have someone above us. So, and we don't know the neighborhood and we don't own a yard. And it's a further drive to anything and there is no train there. So how is a loft, as cool a lair as it is, how is that a solution to any of our problems, other than it's different? [00:24:24]
You don't have to tell me what we have. I know how good this is. I said okay, fine, but there is a sale sign up front. And what happens if someone else gives us a price? I mean it has to be very clear to us that it's likely to get something that is better. That's the point. (Pause) And also, it's not my money [circle this] (ph), so that's the other shoe, so I'm always reminded of that fact. We can go around looking, looking, looking. It's as if she's going around shopping for dresses and she's going to be buying it. It's not, it doesn't, it's not me. So I'm always reminded of the fact that I don't have any financial stake in this other than simply rocking my world because we have a great place—she has a great place where I live. [00:25:36]
THERAPIST: Yes, I think that, I mean it's usually that is one kind of—this is sort of a subtext here or something like that. It's something about that that's at play here, play... [00:26:02]
CLIENT: Absolutely, and it's true she wants to move on, she wants to move on, and I'm not married, let's move on, you just want to stay here, you can stay forever. So all the sudden getting a house is a symbol of moving on and I feel like looking for a house is a much bigger issues psychically for her and yet instead of just sort of really being able to be clear about it and talk about it, when I say very taxing she finds that to be a global comment on everything in life. [00:26:47]
THERAPIST: Like getting married and all that.
CLIENT: Yes, that's right. So. Anyway, and so, I, I don't know. I guess I have a baseline too. It's not me on the shitty list in terms of thinking [00:27:14] noticed our house. I welcome playing golf, you know you kind of go into places, oh, I kind of see that; that'll work . And it's just like moving shop, boop, there you are. I'm not treating this whole thing like oh, there's no store there, it's so great. Whatever. I mean, we live where we live now. It's not like we're down that street from where the dog lived, now we're going to lose you to [inaudible] we got a whole foods, we go to the farm, we go to CVS and you make a home of your surroundings and it's a great place to do that because it's a cool place. [00:28:00]
It looks cool aesthetically, I mean as I was telling her, aesthetically it's fantastic. It's just red brick and everything's very cool. These converted factories are now lofts and it's very cool. You just drive down the road in that area and—and there are these new palatial estates. So it's like massive yards, looks very, very nice. And it's a half-mile from us. [00:28:36]
So it's a very extensive area but on the other side of it, and I kept saying, two blocks from us—this is a nice street and the house is nice from the outside; who knows what's on the inside but on the outside it's nice—I said we drive half a mile in that direction, multi-million dollar, massive, massive estates. Go two blocks in that direction, you're in a dicey part of the city and it is the projects. It is the projects. And I said there are dicey parts of this area but we're on top of a hill and the one little dicey area [inaudible at 00:29:26] train is at the bottom of the hill and the drug addicts are not walking up two really steep hills to get to us because they're too tired to do that. [00:29:40]
So crime as it exists is at the bottom of the hill and an outreach center. And they're fine. You want fine. In New York you want [inaudible] people. She feels like they're going to jump out at you and I'm like come on. They're so, they're not aggressive; tired is what they are. They are just sitting on the steps trying to make do. They're waiting for the bus to go [inaudible at 00:30:13] and get their Methadone. That's what they're doing. Now you know. So people waiting for Methadone and getting coffee while they wait for the bus is different from 30 duplex type things that is giant sort of pot that is the projects. [00:30:43]
So I said you can have a fantasy about this place because it just as this street we'll be fine. But if you're saying you want to get away from the crime, (pause)...
THERAPIST: Well I was thinking that just maybe get back to our conversation last week and that what seems like happened between you and Barbara was around when you didn't really match up to what maybe her ideal was in terms of hey this is what—I want you to join in on my fantasy of this place or of either of these two places and then kind of go along with me and do that. And I was thinking of the idea of being the ideal boyfriend, being the ideal guy to her and what that means to you not to be. What it means to kind of divert from that. [00:32:03]
And certainly you can tell me that, you're saying that Barbara does not like it when I divert from that, and some of the tension of the relationship is around that, like don't want to get married now, don't—how—feel pretty good about being in this place, staying where you are compared to where she is. And that just thinking about I guess connected to last—to Friday, and thinking about the power and the kind of compelling quality of being the ideal. Even though you—there's that quality in math that you're intellectually interested but it's also that if you were to succeed at it then you've hit at that ideal. 
And I think in some way there's also the kind of being the ideal guy but I think, what you see in some ways your dad as being in some ways. Like just your dedication does the right thing. It's kind of like the standard bearer for what a husband, a partner—and yet you have this whole side of like wait, I like it here; I like my things the way, whether it's a—it could be a creature of habit or what, whatever—that doesn't jive with that all the time. And I think it has powerful implications between the two of you but also for yourself. [00:33:35]
CLIENT: (Pause) I was thinking this last night. [00:34:43] Sort of the idea of moving it highlights a lack of energy about certain things. I mean I find this tiring because I'm tired because I'm adding three years and getting 100 on the report and staying up last night until 12:05 to watch a game. I'm tired really but in general regarding work and relationship the feeling of, feeling like I don't know what to do. [00:35:41] I don't feel excited about things and I feel like, it's weird because it doesn't feel like depression because I know what that feels like. That feeling of, feeling frantic and anxious and cornered and hopeless and overwhelmed. It's not that. But it's a feeling of things are the way they are and I realize that I should be set in having a family, getting a house and progressing in a career. Those are normal good things and I'm not doing it; I'm aware of that. [00:36:34]
So I'm aware of the fact, even though it irritates the hell out of me, Barbara's sort of tone or feeling or something in the way that she has a feeling towards house and all this, she goes off the handle. That it highlights my own sort of stuckness or stasis and her wanting a place is sort of a reaction to that, like getting a house is to get out of a rut. [00:37:16]
So right now she thought that I'm actually really tired. It's hard to imagine sort of optimistically confidence like flicking a switch. Oh what a relief; oh yes, for work. Like right now I feel like fine. And I'm thinking like have class in a bit on proofs which I worked hard figuring out, I can explain the hall of horses last time, I figured out now why all the horses are not the same color. [00:38:22]
So that realm which is pure mathematical induction in logic, I have that and I feel right now that I just don't care. I don't want—I don't feel the class, I don't care, I'm still not clear. I've got to go to class but whatever, but I'm not going to engage until I get that, I've got to step up my energy level. Really be engaged to make it worth my while. I feel like whatever, today's not my day. I feel like Work's done, strung homework, I'll flex in the street somewhere and just go home and I just feel like, Barbara went somewhere, great. I'll just either watch Sunday night football game or something. Well that's my comfort zone isn't it? [00:39:41].
THERAPIST: Well it's something seen to nudge you I mean I'm not dismissive, the role of sleep obviously had something to do with it but there's something else in the analogy. Something about the interaction with Barbara seemed to nudge you in that direction feeling like that. You know, losing the energy. [00:40:14]
CLIENT: Yes, well yes because it—all the sudden I can't stand my, all the sudden it's like clashes of fantasies. She has her notion about things, how she wants her things and the idea—who knows what her fantasy is. Who knows what symbolism attached itself to that house. I'm not sure. (Pause) And for me, I'm feeling anxious driving around today because I feel like okay well we don't have anyone else actually scheduled because it's Monday and it's just being in the car with her and not feeling super excited about that. First from feeling oh, somebody else, and (pause) it's not a feeling of being 24 and in love and flying to the city and thinking wow we're going to find a place together. It's all brand new and we're going to discover it together. It's the opposite dynamic; we're already together. We're here and now we're looking to create some new thing, some new excitement, some new betterness. [00:41:53]
Meanwhile, my sort of retreat in the homeland is focusing and working really hard thinking about these math problems. I'm being very invested in sorting them out. You know what you want. All formula one, right, so we have our little routine in terms of we have dinner and we watch ABCN (ph) News with the host I'm very familiar with and we always are interested in what LaToya's going to be wearing, and we spend a half-hour watching her [inaudible]. Then we have dinner, which is usually salmon. And lately making Goat Cheese salads, which are very good. And I [inaudible at 00:43:10] when I cook, but when she cooks it's fine too, because then I don't have to cook. But I like to cook, but it takes energy to cook. And after yesterday I was like I just don't care, but the salad was really good. [inaudible at 00:43:23] good salmon. But I cooked the salmon so it's no crutch (ph). She wants to cook it for 20 minutes and I cook it for ten minutes. Bam, done. Not a question.
And so [inaudible at 00:43:42]. And it's like okay we get along, right. So when I say this sort of surface daily interaction, which isn't surface but it's our daily routine—I do my thing, she does her thing, we make dinner, we have dinner, we watch the news—and it's a happy thing. Not super happy but it's certainly fine, content. But beneath the surfaces I remain on the [inaudible at 00:44:21] and she's on a roll on the computer looking at houses, houses, houses, houses, that's all she does houses, houses, houses. [00:44:33]
Got an eye for the chalice. [inaudible], ESPN, Comcast, what the stars say, back and forth, because she has a computer. That's the thing. She's on one couch, I'm on the other, we're both lying down, her feet are here, my feet are there, and I'm flipping the channels finding out about the games, what's going to happen. And she shows me houses. And that's fine. But then there's this stark part, when I say I'm feeling taxed and I'm driving. I'm driving through the hood and I'm thinking why are we—for that? For all these variables? [00:45:35]
That's the thing, that's what I stressed to her. I said I'm just more circumspect about this. You get, you have these fantasies about it, which is fine except for me I don't have that fantasy and yet I'm happy to look at places yet there are all these variables. Right now we know who our neighbors are, we like them. We know this place is nice. We know this tea is three minutes down the hill. You can get to the city instantly; we don't have to have a second car. We're close to the neighborhood, close to all kinds of things, it is 12 minutes away, it's easy, easy, easy. [00:46:25]
So the surface aspects of things we get along, get along, get along, more or less, or don't rock each other's boats much, and yet at the deep level, she's clamoring for a place I don't really care. And yet, she wants me to have the same feelings and get wrapped up for it. And I feel like maybe I should but I don't. [00:47:04]
THERAPIST: Yes, right. And it sounds like too if she, when she nudges you in that direction, I was wondering if that was when you have the dark stuff, the dark side of it starts to come around. You know like there's this other side, wait, wait there's also this other way I'm feeling though about these houses. I'm good to look at, yes, yes, she's showing me the houses. That feels okay. But going out and doing it and then she asks you about what you're feeling, another level, on a deeper level, which is darker sometimes to I guess a simple feeling. And then the harmony's gone.
CLIENT: Yes, that's right, the harmony's gone. Yes, so now I think that—so she went off for a long bike ride which is what she does and I take a shower, get dressed, come into town. So she put on her bicycle gear and took off to race around and do laps around the arboretum and go down to the pond and race around and go over hills and do all that, which when you—we live at the arboretum. We have a lot, a lot, right? I'm not sure if she's going to be riding her bike around the projects. [00:48:55]
So she was off for like—she's irritated, I'm irritated. Yet she's going to make, she's going to make curry. So I'll come home and there will be curry, which is nice because she makes good curry. And there we go. And we'll watch LaToya and I'll watch [Monday Night] (ph) Football and there'll be peace. And yet whatever happened today will still be there because it doesn't go away. [00:49:47]
THERAPIST: Yes, and there's so much happening on that level. So much I'll never know. 
CLIENT: Meanwhile, I'm looking at our place through this odd disembodied cast, because even though the pictures are back and the magnets are back from the fridge, and my books are back out on my desk, I'm aware of the fact how to put things in drawers so they can quickly become neutral again. You're aware of the ability to depersonalize a place and there's something very strange about that because you want to be attached to your life and this is a dynamic where you have to be very attached to a part of yourself, meaning very aspirational where you're going to buy a house and do it together. [00:50:54]
And you—but some days you become unattached to your current life. But she's in my current life. [00:51:07]
THERAPIST: Yes. Yes it seemed like that was a part of what you were kind of getting at with her. On a deeper level was in some way you're sort of saying but we're going to lose part of what we had, who we are, or there's certainly a risk of that. It's going to be different. And it's that kind of the way the place was kind of cleaned up and anonymous, kind of a reflection in some way of you feeling like lost in it, like the agenda which you brought and feel there, what you bring and feel at the place, it runs risk of being gone when you're looking around at other stuff. You're going to be depersonalized. I think in some way you were trying to get at that with Barbara. [00:52:10]
CLIENT: Well I think too we live—I still think too the area is full of the arts. I mean that's what it is and it's very progressive and it's very gay and even though for some it may seem [inaudible at 00:52:32] I'm very happy that it's there. And I like the fact that our state rep was raised across the street and I like that there's a judge across the street and his wife and they host all of these very progressive political action groups and that they always have the most progressive signs in their yards and you would never see a conservative thing in their yard and none of our neighbors except the guy down the street and that's fine because it represents diversity. So there's one. [00:53:14]
But basically it's a very liberal, politically active neighborhood that's on the right side. We live in a very pro-Obama neighborhood. All of it is very pro, pro. There's other places with Republican signs and driveways and it's like sure we get a house but what the fuck? 
THERAPIST: You lose a lot. 
CLIENT: These are our neighbors?
THERAPIST: You lose something.
CLIENT: It's covering up for [inaudible at 00:53:49], it's fine, it's fine. But is it then going to be Romney signs being put up closer to the election? I'm thinking really? That's where we're going to live? Yes. Why? I mean what exactly is the [lesson won] (ph)? The fantasy is not to just be in a house, I like having neighbors. I like knowing—because Barbara doesn't talk to people, but I know everyone's name. I know everybody. I know Brad who cooks pastries and he's gay and he's 70 and he cooks pastries. And we talk, we have conversations about how to make Croners (ph) and how to make flaky crusts, and I like that and I know Brad. [00:54:53]
And his partner always walks around with a lottery ticket. His name's John. And when I talk about Brad and John Barbara's like who are they? That's Brad and John and they're straight across the street. And she's anxious; she's always who's that? She's the woman across the street; she's always doing gardening. Which one's which?, which one's which? One's the big Black guy; One's the little Black guy. Oh. Who's the guy who paints. Oh. It's like I'm going to miss, I'm going to lose all of that for 300 extra square feet and no one above you? [00:55:32]
THERAPIST: But you're much more, you feel not only very tied in and connected with the neighborhood but in a way that Barbara doesn't have that same kind of connection...
CLIENT: She doesn't want to.
THERAPIST: She doesn't want to. Interesting.
CLIENT: She's suspicious of everybody else around her, as I am—I don't know. Maybe it's the kid and spoken less English words, or I'm generous and open to people who are new? Hello, hey how are you, that's fine, whatever, it's cool. It's like a beach party. It's like if you're there, yes, have [inaudible], that's cool. Whereas her, it's basically like, [inaudible] she should be on baseline; just don't like anybody until they prove themselves to be worthy. And you have to have opportunity of course because they don't want to talk to her. [00:56:27]
THERAPIST: Yes, right. Yes, home is where something is thought of in a different way conceptually, almost like your own plug.
CLIENT: It's like homesteaders.
THERAPIST: Yes, yes. 
CLIENT: And Jordan upstairs, right? So his radio goes off, it's loud, it's the bass and I've told her this whole story. And I realize the solution is this he works 80 hours a week doing networks because he's computer guy for [inaudible at 00:57:07] the fireworks. So that's the thing. He has a big red truck and he has a BMW motorcycle and he loves riding the motorcycle. And he's a cool guy, he's a former chef, political guy. He's always effing this, effing that, from New York. I like him. But he has a goddamn loud radio. And that's what sets Barbara off. It doesn't make me happy either. [00:57:31]
And I realize the solution of the problem is this. I go on Amazon. I buy a clock radio that is meant to underneath the pillow. I need one for myself. They're $18. Buy two. I have one; I give one to Jordan. Jordan here's the solution. You don't have to go to the store and buy one. Just try this, see if it works. Quality of life instantly. Now we hear Jordan walking around but we don't hear the boom, boom, boom at 5:30 in the morning. We don't need a house' we just need an $18 radio that goes under the pillow. He can wake up; we don't hear it. [00:58:14]
She goes well we're not buying them. He should get it. And I said yes, but for the record, you spend $18 on two glasses of wine. Eighteen dollars on a radio, and you don't have to hear that at the start of every single day when you get up at 5:40 and that goes off at 5:30? It's like 10 minutes at the start of the day?
THERAPIST: Not a bad investment.
CLIENT: Yes, $18. It's the principle; he should rely on his jackets. She can't stand Jordan; she can't stand Greg. Jordan's second floor, Greg's third floor. Can't stand them. Greg's a prick because he's a prick. I like Greg. Greg's fine with me. We paint together, we mow the lawn, we do this, we hang out, nice guy. Jordan, funny guy. I have no problem with either of them. So I'm the one who's always having [00:59:15]. I'm the one who's always texting. I'm the one who's relationship guy, keep the peace. They always write to me. Whenever there's a problem, they talk to me. Always just, we just chat. [00:59:23]
But they don't want to talk to Barbara; Barbara doesn't want to talk to them. So my job is sort of to keep the peace because I genuinely have no problems with people. Think of that. You want a house so you don't have problems with people? You have a problem with me. For good reason, for in some cases, but...[01:00:01]
THERAPIST: Yes, yes. Yes, and I know we're going to stop in a second but yes, it sounds like one of the things that happens though is the, is those conversations can kind of turn towards this is an indictment about you and you being stuck in a rut. I guess you sort of say listen there's room to have that be somewhere in the mix about hey I like my, I like to know where I am, I'm comfortable here. But then there's also the other side of it which is that you really like the area. You like the place you live in. It means something. It's who you are. It's become a pretty big part of your life. A big part of your life. 
And yes, it doesn't—I guess that's where it's good going out with that ideal. You're not they guy that's just going to go, all right let's go to the suburb, the suburbs for a while. We'll get a place that's, you know, get married, get a place... [01:01:08]
CLIENT: Right, yes, and then the Kings too, like a snowball. It's the time of life but also just the nature of [inaudible at 001:01:21] and the whole region, right? Just people come and go every year or two years, three years, four years. It is student loans, student living, students walk down the street and you get 20 wifi signals because there's three grounds. It's nice being in the area because people staying put. 
THERAPIST: They do stay there, yes.
CLIENT: Yes, and—yes. (Pause) But it's dynamic and so forth but it's not student housing in a way that's some of them are. Actually it's a real neighborhood with people who are older than 28. Put down roots. (Pause) It's not student class and... [01:02:33]
THERAPIST: How are you—where's your energy? What are you feeling?
CLIENT: Yes, well I don't care. I mean I feel like, I go through a gazillion pages of all these proofs and I have to go make a copy of it because I don't like going home without making a copy of it. Normally I'd go to [inaudible at 001:02:53]. So now I'm going to go to Kinkos, which I hate, on [inaudible at 001:02:52] or whatever it's called—Copy King, which is totally unpleasant, but I have to make a copy of it. And then I'm going to go listen to something on the way to proof something, which normally excites me but now I just feel like whatever. It's not a game, it's NFC so I certainly cannot—something to watch. See if Reeko can slam the reps yet again, she's very good at which I find amazing that you can get away with ESPN. [01:03:31]
And then I have a solution to that, too, thinking we going at this all wrong. The owners have taken a snapshot of the zeitgeist of the U.S. and the world and they allowed themselves to be set up as the bad guys. And they're fully aware of that. And they're thinking we're just going to keep screwing the refs and it's going to be a great distraction and people are going to hate the owners but they're still going to watch football. And we want an 18 game season and there's a bit of predictability because football just goes on and on and on and on. [01:04:11]
Well now, we're going to do this. We're going to protract it. It's going to be tension; it's going to be dramatic. And finally when the real refs come back, and we know they will because we'll pay them, they'll come back, there's going to be such great relief that the masses are going to be thankful thinking finally we love the refs. Finally we're back to real football and this will last us for a few years because they'll be so thankful that things are back to normal because we have to make something abnormal for people to appreciate the normal. 
And I think we're misreading the owners on this. They're not, it's not really in principle [inaudible at 001:04:46], they're not really worried about the amount of money. This is a much bigger, sort of psychological thing where it is a very interesting bit of marketing. Letting themselves be the bad guys, right? Yes, we're the big evil 1 percent and our viewership's the 99 percent. And we're going to set ourselves up in this and we don't mind being hated and that people are very happy once it goes back to normal. And it sounds conspiratorial, but that's now how I'm looking at it. In fact it's very, very intelligent. It's very clever. It's very good for the game... [01:05:30]
THERAPIST: What happened...
CLIENT: ...because things are back to normal. People would be looking where we would have gotten, back to normal. Back to normal. Thank God, we love the refs, we love the real refs. We now we can just watch football, the game itself. Otherwise it would've been a rut. Season goes, season goes, season goes, season goes, you don't have to watch every game. Well, okay. Patriots are good; we'll see. Well guess I've seen the right last half of the season. All of a sudden, there's such adrenaline over all of this that we're going to be so happy and thankful when things are really just as they were last year. And I'm thinking (pause) these people aren't dumb. And they're not just pricks but they're letting themselves be perceived as such because it's going to be a very memorable season. [01:06:35]
THERAPIST: Because, in fact because of the runoff.
CLIENT: And they're okay with Mike Shreeko (ph) criticizing them. They're okay with Collinsworth. They're okay with their affiliates. They're okay with SportsCenter leading with how bad the refs are. If they weren't, they wouldn't allow it. They're okay with accepting a lot of this blame because for the greater good they're thinking people need this; people need to be angry at us. Wall Street screws people; we'll take it on. We'll take it on, we'll take it on. There'll still be Fantasy Football; people will still get their sports. It's not going to affect the season because the real refs will come in eventually, things get sorted out, we'll make it fair, we'll make sure the right teams get in the playoffs. [01:07:28]
THERAPIST: Interesting.
CLIENT: Because charades and football season, they kind of blend together. Given the Browns are moving to Baltimore, massive. That affected two cities. Well now it affects the entire league. Everyone's against the owners. Coaches are getting steel arms (ph), players are getting steel arms (ph). Fox, CBS, ESPN, they're getting steel arms (ph). Everyone's getting steel arms (ph). And for what? Sixty thousand dollars per season per team? [01:08:18]
THERAPIST: That's crazy.
CLIENT: It's not just principle, it's not just principle because we can really keep people excited and be thankful for things returning to normal. 
THERAPIST: The power of it going back to normal? Yes.
CLIENT: It's like creating the fight in your relationship, right? Oh, that's radical.
THERAPIST: Thinking about moving is thinking about how good it is to be at home. That's interesting. 
CLIENT: All right, next week. I get paid next week so I can pay you.
THERAPIST: Okay. All right. 
CLIENT: No [inaudible]?
THERAPIST: All right, very good. [01:09:10]
CLIENT: Yes, you can say the same thing about the Chargers moving to L.A. They always have that come up and then the rumors die down. They just die down. 
THERAPIST: That's interesting. I think we're very lucky to have them. 
CLIENT: That's right.
THERAPIST: Interesting. 
CLIENT: Although I think in that case, their fans aren't freaking out. They're staying away now. 
THERAPIST: I mean of course the economy, the economy's bad there. 
CLIENT: But it's full though isn't it? Really?
THERAPIST: They're blacked out.
CLIENT: Oh, they're blacked out?
THERAPIST: They were barely sold out for the opener and they got blacked out by like 10,000 seats this last, for the Falcons. It was a good game.
CLIENT: It was. Interesting.
THERAPIST: But it's interesting to think, another report came out about them moving to L.A. Somebody in the L.A. Times wrote an article about it and the whole town was in an uproar. So what are you saying? [01:10:33]
CLIENT: That's interesting.
THERAPIST: The owners won't come up and say no, no, no, we're not worried. Don't worry about it.
CLIENT: You know that's right. And meanwhile the owners are disliked bringing their opinion in. But yet it generates interest.
THERAPIST: It does. Well it's still been the bargaining chip to try to get them to stay. 
CLIENT: It's also been a bargaining to get them to stay too.
THERAPIST: Yes, we got an offer in L.A. to build us this thing downtown. 
CLIENT: Not going to happen. You know people who lose in all this, the sacrificial lamb, are the replacement refs themselves. I mean no one's making them be the refs but what if the replacement refs just said screw it we're not doing it? And if they need replacement refs, even though the replacement refs are set up to be a slight for everyone, they are sort of making the whole thing go. You need the long-range refs and the Division Three refs. Otherwise there will be nothing.
THERAPIST: The patsy. The patsy is necessary.
CLIENT: That's right. All right. I'll see you on the 10th. [01:12:26]
END TRANSCRIPT
