



[p. <i>863</i>]
<font size="5"><b>First Person Account: Schizophrenia, Substance Abuse, and HIV</b></font>

<i><b>by "Hummingbird"</b></i>
<a href="javascript: __showhidenote('_note_542');">[note]</a><div id="_note_542" style="display:none;background-color:#FFDD99;margin:0px;border:2px solid #800000; padding:2px;">1 This article was drafted with the assistance of Jay Johnson, Ph.D.,
Senior Research Associate, Mental Health and Mental Retardation
Authority, Harris County, Texas. Reprint requests should be sent to Dr. J. Johnson, Mental Health and Mental Retardation Authority of Harris County, Ste. 212-2, 2850 Fannin,
Houston, TX 77002; e-mail: johnsonj@phoenix.net.</div>


The article that follows is part of the <i>Schizophrenia
Bulletin</i>'s ongoing First Person Account series. We hope
that mental health professionals—the <i>Bulletin</i>'s primary
audience—will take this opportunity to learn about the
issues and difficulties confronted by consumers of mental
health care. In addition, we hope that these accounts will
give patients and families a better sense of not being alone
in confronting the problems that can be anticipated by
persons with serious emotional difficulties. We welcome
other contributions from patients, ex-patients, or family
members. Our major editorial requirement is that such
contributions be clearly written and organized, and that a
novel or unique aspect of schizophrenia be described,
with special emphasis on points that will be important for
professionals. Clinicians who see articulate patients, with
experiences they believe should be shared, might encourage
these patients to submit their articles to First Person
Accounts, c/o Jane Rea, EEI Communications, 66 Canal
Center Plaza, Ste. 200, Alexandria, VA 22314.—<i>The
Editors</i>.


I want my story told, but I want to remain anonymous.
There's a lot of shame that goes along with my conditions.
I want people to understand that my story is about
progress and hope, not about falling down and despair. I
want others to know not only about the depths to which
this illness can sink a person, but also how the right help
can enable people who suffer from it to find their way
back and begin again. I have no kids. Thank God. I would
not want to bring any in the world just to make them suffer
too because of my sickness. But I don't want to die
and leave nothing behind. I want my life to mean something.
So, if I can help others by telling my story, then I
need to tell it and they should have the right to hear it and
learn from it. At least if others can recognize themselves
in my words, and get help and save themselves before it's
too late, then my experience will have been worthwhile. I
will have made a difference for having been here.


First, and foremost, I am afflicted with a mental illness.
It's the root of my problems. I probably have had
this disease since I was born, but it did not show up until
later in my life. It was there simmering below the surface,
waiting until the time was right to rise up and strike me
down. It may even be genetic. My dad died from alcoholism
and my mom was treated off and on when I was a
child for "disturbances." Everyone said she was never
quite right in the head, though I never really noticed.


Second, my drug problems came as a result of my
mental illness, but they made my mental illness worse.
And my drug abuse led to my legal difficulties and catching
human immunodeficiency virus (HIV), with its upside
and downside. The downside is that it has multiplied the
stress in my life and upsets my mental stability. It never
goes away and only gets worse. The upside is that when
you are handed a death sentence, you straighten up real
quick and rearrange your priorities. You focus on things
that will keep you well and forget the rest. It is a radical
life-transforming experience.


My story begins when I was 25, about 6 years ago. I
had just received my cosmetologist license and was working
as a hairdresser. Also, I had just finished the second
year on my bachelor's degree in business administration
at a local university. I wanted someday to own a chain of
beauty salons. I was on top of the world then. That was
when the voices started and I was first hospitalized. They
came the same time I was having menstrual problems, but
no one can say for sure if the two were related. The voices
are like people having a conversation inside my head of
which I am not a part. They can be like scratching, whispers,
or real loud, like shouting. They clutter my mind and
I cannot think straight until I am unable to do anything.

[p. <i>864</i>]

The people at the hospital were real nice, understanding,
and caring. They have always been nice to me there. I
rested. They gave me medication that made the voices
leave for the time being. That first time, I stayed for 14
days and detoxed from the alcohol. I attended substance
abuse classes and groups. One problem with the medication
is that it had some unpleasant side effects. So they
gave me other medications for those.


I felt I was well enough to go home and return to my
life as if nothing had happened. How wrong I was. After
the first bout with mental illness, people are different
inside both physically and emotionally. Also, the world
starts treating them differently. These two things work
against a complete recovery. I doubt anyone ever completely
recovers from mental illness. I tried to go back to
school, but I found that I just could not concentrate and I
did not feel motivated. I started work at a neighborhood
beauty shop as a beautician's helper. I met this man who
became my boyfriend. I moved out of my mother's house
into his place. He got me started smoking crack cocaine.


A word about crack: this is the devil's drug. It is
wicked, pure evil. It makes people do things while they're
on it, and they will do things to get it that they would never
dream of doing in their wildest imaginations or nightmares.
When people are on crack, it becomes their lover, friends,
and family. I pawned my mother's furniture when she was
out of her house to get money to buy crack. And I have sold
my body countless times for it. A person will do anything
for it—anything! With crack, people have no one else and
nothing in their lives. I would get this incredible high from
smoking crack, but afterward it tended to make me edgy
and jittery and even more depressed. So I would drink and I
started smoking marijuana to mellow me. The problem
with marijuana was, when I smoked too much, strange
thoughts popped into my head and I got extremely anxious.
But I wouldn't know that I had smoked too much until I got
the thoughts and anxiety.


Not long after moving in with my boyfriend, the
voices came back with a vengeance. But now I could not
sleep or concentrate. I became extremely depressed, irritable,
afraid, and hopeless. When I am like this, all I want is
to be off by myself alone. I do not want to be close to anyone.
Unless I drink to pass out, I will stay up late into the
night or wake up early in the morning, which can really
aggravate the people around me who keep normal hours.
My boyfriend and I fought constantly. I drank until I was
drunk and then smoked crack to make me less depressed.
But after the crack I felt even more depressed and irritable
until the least little thing would set me off. My boyfriend
couldn't take it anymore and threw me out into the street.
Because of my mental and drug problems, my mother and
sisters refused to take me into their homes. Of course,
when a person has these problems, keeping a job is not an
option; not that anyone in their right mind would hire
them anyway. I was homeless and living on the streets. I
would sell my body for a place to sleep, a good hot meal,
and some alcohol and drugs. The things I did for drugs
were unimaginable. I got a dose of syphilis and hepatitis,
and I was infected with HIV.


The voices were not my only problem now. I had this
constant feeling that someone was watching me from
behind. I began to have feelings like someone was pulling
at my legs or crawling all over the skin on my back. I
could not sleep and would constantly cry. I would explode
at the slightest provocation. I hated the way I was feeling
and living and what I had become. One night out of desperation
I called my boyfriend to beg to come back. We
got into a heated argument and I threatened him. I told
him I had bought a gun and that I was going to kill him
and then throw myself off the ship channel bridge. He
called the police. They came and arrested me. That was
the first time I went to jail.


They placed me in protective custody. Then they
transferred me to the county emergency room for observation.
I hate that place. It's almost worse than jail. It is
dirty and crowded, especially when I need my space. The
workers there are unfeeling, uncaring, abusive, and plain
mean. The emergency room transferred me to the county
mental hospital. They detoxed me from the cocaine and
alcohol, and I got medication to make the voices go away.
I attended the substance abuse classes and groups that I
really enjoyed.


I was desperate to stay off crack. I let the county hospital
discharge me to an inpatient drug treatment program.
That was a big mistake. The place was horrible. They had
12-step meetings two or three times a day for cocaine and
alcohol abuse, but the other patients were always back-biting
and criticizing. They were always coming at me. I
would just sit silently and stare into space while the others

[p. <i>865</i>]

I moved into a shelter for homeless women and
enrolled in an outpatient drug treatment program. I got
new medication for the voices from a mental health crisis
clinic. But the doctors there did not take the time to
explain how to take it correctly. I was taking a double
dose, which caused me to have serious side effects like
uncontrollable twitching. They didn't give me anything to
help the side effects, so I would smoke marijuana. This
caused me a lot of problems. One, I would forget and miss
appointments at the drug treatment clinic. Two, I failed
every one of my urine tests except the first one. My staying
in the shelter was contingent on staying off drugs.
Three, marijuana smoking led me back to crack smoking
and drinking, because the world of drugs is not one big
world or a bunch of small separate worlds. It is a bunch of
small worlds that crisscross one another. So, the homeless
shelter had no choice but to kick me back out into the
streets where I started "freakin' and geekin'" again.


I left my mental medications at the homeless shelter.
So the voices came back blaring, and I was drinking until
passing out and smoking crack and marijuana constantly. I
suffer from poor impulse control to begin with, and on
crack I cannot control myself at all. My appearance
became disheveled, my hair was uncombed, I did not
bathe for days, and I would ramble and rant incoherently.
I was a truly frightful sight to behold. I was something
you would expect to see on your front doorstep on
Halloween. And that is coming from a former beautician.
I believed that men were trying to kill my sisters and
nieces. I was seeing shadows move and take form. I saw
people coming up and staring at me when there were
none. I thought people were in the bathroom with me
when I was alone. I even saw the devil himself coming
out of the motel where I was smoking crack. Then for 5
days and nights I smoked crack and drank alcohol and did
not sleep until I thought my heart literally was going to
explode. I went to my sister's house, where I chased her
friend down the street with a butcher knife. I believed her
friend had turned into a devil. The police came and
arrested me. That was the second time I went to jail. The
police knew me by now. I went back to the county emergency
room and then to the psychiatric hospital.


This time I was a completely different person—a
wild demon. I refused to take my medications. I was hostile
with the hospital staff and would curse them out when
they provoked me in the slightest. My family refused to
visit me because it only upset me more. I know it upset
them to see me like that. People who have not experienced
a family member's mental illness cannot begin to
comprehend the burdens, emotional stress, and hurt it
causes the family too. I flew into a rage because I thought
other patients had spilled my ice cream when there was no
ice cream there at all. I raved on about wanting to kill my
nephew whom I love dearly. I even tried to rush the hospital
staff in an attempt to leave on my own. I would stand
rigid and stare into space for hours at a time. I needed
assistance from the hospital staff just to change clothes
and bathe. They would have to instruct and prompt me
over and over to do the simplest tasks. Then I managed to
steal a bottle of aspirin. I swallowed the entire bottle in
another attempt to kill myself. They found out and
pumped my stomach. If ever there was a bottom, I had hit
it. The problem with suffering from a mental illness is
that, even if the illness has not blinded a person to the fact
they hit bottom, it surely makes the person unable to do
anything about it on their own.


The hospital staff changed my medications. They
detoxed me again. The voices and hallucinations went
away. I was able to relax and sleep. I got cleaned up. I
was able to talk to people civilly again. About this time,
one of my sisters died of a heart attack. She was only 37
years old. This really made me pause and consider my
own situation. I went home with my mother on a weekend
pass. It went so well that I decided to leave the hospital
and live with her until I could get back on my feet. The
hospital transferred me to a county mental health community
outpatient clinic. These people have been wonderful
to me. My case worker will drive me to and from the
clinic to get my medication or to attend group or individual
counseling. They do free blood work to check to see
that my medications are at the right level. At my request,
my case worker even came out to my mother's house to
talk to her about my mental and physical problems. The
clinic workers have helped me get food stamps and social
security benefits and county medical services. They even
have helped me get free HIV services. A person with my
many different problems cannot be expected to hold a
full-time job. But I am returning to school because the
clinic offers a school assistance program that helps pay
for tuition and books.


However, my HIV has caused complications to my
mental health. I have bad nausea and diarrhea following
the medications I must take to keep me sane. For someone
with HIV, diarrhea can be deadly. I also have trouble
keeping things in my stomach. And there have been problems
caused by reactions between the mental medication
and the antivirals I take, especially tremors. My energy
level is always low, and I sometimes have trouble remembering
things or keeping ideas in my head. They give me
other medications for these side effects, and then still
more medications to counter the side effects that were

[p. <i>866</i>]

Be that as it may, these good people have helped me
take the steps necessary to get my life back on track. But
it can never be truly normal again. I have had my share of
trials and tribulations, and with their help I will overcome
adversity. I believe in my higher power. That power has
seen me this far and will see me the rest of the way.

