TRANSCRIPT OF AUDIO FILE:
______________________________________________________________________________
<b>BEGIN TRANSCRIPT:</b>
THERAPIST: Hi.
CLIENT: How are you?
THERAPIST: Good thank you.
CLIENT: (inaudible at 0:00:36.6)
THERAPIST: Good thank you.
CLIENT: Still having issues with my anxiety, can't sleep. I don't know what to do. How I can relax myself. Last night wasn't bad, went away with my girlfriend this weekend. And it wasn't bad for the most part but, I don't know what it is, it's just some nights I just, it's worse than others and some nights I'm not even affected by it. And it's very frustrating because I know deep down I'm exhausted and I need to rest. And I haven't been. But then like this weekend we went away, I was getting like eight hours of sleep. Waking up, doing a couple of things, and then go back to sleep. I don't know what it is. I'll have days like that too even when I'm home. I don't know if it's because I get up early to go to school and then I go, go, go. And then when it's time to sleep, my anxiety kicks in and I can't fall asleep. So it's frustrating.
THERAPIST: What do you feel anxious about when you start feeling anxious? [00:02:02.2]
CLIENT: I don't know. Thoughts just keep going through my head just about my health and me thinking about my heart and all that stuff. And even though I'm like I said before, I know that I'm okay, I have all the documents to prove that I'm okay. Mentally I don't know, I can't convince myself that I am okay. And it's just very frustrating. There was an episode a couple of years ago where I ate hash brownies. I feel asleep, I was very high, and then I woke up and thought I was having a heart attack. And it's just stuff like that that makes it worse.
Before I would say that, it's not a good way but I used to smoke the marijuana to help me sleep, just because it relaxed me and I'd think about it while I was awake. Even worse. But to sleep I'd just be so out of it that I would just conk out. And that's what I used it for. [00:03:17.0]
But the more and more I used it, when I tried to get off it, that's when my anxiety really started to get really bad. So I was kind of like on an up and down where I was telling myself I was only smoking it to help me sleep but on the other hand when I get off it, it was even more harder to sleep because I was so anxious because of the chemicals mixing with my body while the center of your body just being mixed up. It was very frustrating. It still is very frustrating. Because I'd like to get... I mean, there's sometimes I have no problem taking naps. Like before my test, I got home from practice we have practice at 6 a.m. I came home and feel right to sleep. But then there are other times where I would say, "I want to take a sleep," but then I'd be tossing and turning because I wouldn't want to shut my eyes because I don't know if I'd wake up. [00:04:25.8]
It's been really difficult. There's just a lot of thoughts that go on through my head about my heart and all, what I'm feeling. Because I think that the day of the overdose really affected me because, I don't know. And I can't remember how I used to sleep after the overdose happened. I don't remember how I used to sleep, how I moved on from it. I just know how I feel now.
THERAPIST: Did you have that same anxiety before the overdose? [00:05:02.1]
CLIENT: No. I didn't. I did not. When I was on the drugs I used to just fall asleep with no problem. And then it was just after reality set in over the overdose, that's when I started becoming very anxious. Started becoming very, you know, I was becoming more of a hypochondriac, thinking about my health. None of these behaviors ever happened before I overdosed, it all happened after. And it was very scary, even people say that. Because before I overdosed I could sleep on a dime, I could sleep on a picket fence. I was sleeping everywhere. I had no problem with it. I was always going and going and going. But then after the overdose and after my treatment, and started getting into the reality of recovery, I think my body just hasn't been reacting the same. [00:06:09.2]
I think because for those three to four year period I don't think I was clean. I was continually on a substance. Whether it was an alcohol, prescription pills, cocaine, marijuana. I was constantly, in that period of my life I was constantly on something. I don't think I ever took a break. For like 365 days I think I was on something. And it just, I don't know. I guess that's what really causes my anxiety to flare up, is because I don't know what damage I did internally to my body. Because I know, like I said, someone said this, just so many different things that I can deal with. [00:07:09.3]
I can deal with a broken leg. I can deal with a cut. I can deal with all that stuff. Stuff that I can physically control. But stuff internally that I can't control? The fear of that really revs things, i.e. the engine, and gets it going. Even though I have no worries about... I have no need to worry about it from what I have been told from my doctors and everything on the tests that I've done. I just can't get that part of my brain to let go. And I don't know if it's because, like I said before, when I did overdose I do try to avoid the situation. I do not like to talk about it. I'm very uncomfortable talking about it. When I talk about it I get the anxiety, I get very – the emotion of the anxiety kicks in and I just feel like I'm out of control. And that really, it really freaks me out. [00:08:14.7]
THERAPIST: When you think about internal damage, what comes to mind?
CLIENT: I think about my heart especially. I think about the damage that I did to it, the structure of it. Being a young overweight kid, I used to eat a lot of fatty foods. So that consciously is on my mind. I wonder if my arteries are clogging. I wonder if there is like whole in my heart, because I do see all these people that are dying young of age. I had a friend of mine who wasn't really close, but I saw him every day at the gym. He was heavy into steroids and heavy into human growth hormones and all those other hard drugs. And he had a massive heart attack at 24 years old and died. [00:09:13.9]
And I just think about stuff like that, it goes through my head. Where even though I'm working out, I'm doing my best to stay active, stay in shape, keep my body healthy. I do have that fear in the back of my head. And just listening to all the people just... I just had an athlete that I coach, 15 years old from the High School. He passed away playing a video game. You know, how does that happen at 15 years old? There's just a lot of stuff going on with my heart that I really am surprised that nothing's happened to me yet. I guess I feel fortunate for that. But every time I see tragic stories like that the worry starts coming in my head of all the stuff that, from previous abuse, could have done. If it is coming now. [00:10:21.7]
And I think that's what's preventing me from going to the doctor's. Is just because of, I went to the doctor for so many reasons after my overdose to check that, to make sure it was alright. And it was just, I still don't have the comfort. And it's very frustrating and I don't know where it comes from. I don't know.
THERAPIST: Well what I was thinking about is it seems that damage that you can do, you've done, is on your mind in a lot of different ways. You're talking now about the damage you fear you've done to yourself. And then when you first came to see me, and you've talked about it since, there's this when you talk about feeling full of rage and blacking out, there's the concern of the damage that maybe you're doing to other people. And just the idea of the damage you can do is very much on your mind. [00:11:18.6]
CLIENT: Yes. It is. Well you brought it up, that makes a lot of sense now. Because I do, I have been damaging a lot of people. And I have been damaging myself at the same time. And like I said, I just get enraged and just, I just lose my mind. And we had an incident skiing where it was my first time and I fell of the lift.
THERAPIST: Ohh.
CLIENT: Well not the lift, it was like a little ramp that they bring you up, it's a little belt. But it was on the ground.
THERAPIST: Oh yeah. It was like the one you hold onto, not the one that spits you out. Those things will have you falling off from that and landing (overlapping at 0:12:00.1). [00:12:00.1]
CLIENT: No. Not the one you go up in the air. I wasn't ready for that. It was just the first time I got on the skis just trying to...
THERAPIST: It's like a pulley, basically. [00:12:08.0]
CLIENT: Yes. So I fell off that, and I just blacked out and started getting enraged. And I felt bad for my girlfriend because she thought I was taking it out on her and I just... I went in, I changed my boots because my boots were really tight. I had no feeling in my feet. And I was just frustrated. And I guess to the point I finally told her after I got new boots, was ready to go and we ended up having a nice day, but I told her. I go, "I'm not trying to attack you. I just get embarrassed. And that's what I do when I get embarrassed or feel uncomfortable in situations." Is where she feels that I'm attacking her. And really I didn't think about it, but before I did and I never knew about it because it didn't register. And that really opened my eyes as to why. [00:13:11.3]
She goes, "I feel like everything when it happened, you just attacked me." And again that's just part of the rage where I lose my cool. And some of it was, this incident this weekend was strictly out of embarrassment. Because as soon as I fell off, everyone keeps coming over, "Are you alright? Are you alright?" People doing this and it put me in a real uncomfortable position.
THERAPIST: What felt embarrassing about it?
CLIENT: Falling off the lift before I even got on the hill.
THERAPIST: So was it like feeling that you failed in some way, or...
CLIENT: In a way it is, because I'm a very competitive person. And I like to do things at a high level. And if I can't do something I get very frustrated. I get very irritated and I just need to vent. And I feel bad because it wasn't directed at her, and I told her. [00:14:17.2]
And god bless her, she was very good. She let me have my little tantrum. She just waited outside, didn't egg me on any more. She just let me cool off, I went and changed my boots and it was fine. But in years past she would have constantly been all over me. She probably would have cried, and that would have enraged me even more because I like to be able to do things myself. And I feel if I can't do them myself, I'm a failure. And I guess that's part of where this situation made it happen. I guess I have a hard time accepting help when I know people are helping me. [00:15:09.4]
And for me to show my appreciation for it is very tough because I want to be someone who is independent. I want to be someone, again, who can do things on his own. Who can stand up on his own two feet. And then when people are constantly helping me out, I feel that I am not my own person. I can't do things on my own.
THERAPIST: Does it make you feel weak?
CLIENT: Yes. It makes me feel very weak, like I'm not..., like I'm not in control. And like I mentioned before, I like to be in control of things. I like to kind of direct where things are going, where conversations go, where situations go. And I guess like you said, when I don't have that control I do feel very weak. I have no feeling of empowerment of being someone who can survive on his own. I guess that's how I would explain it. And to me that's very frustrating because it's not who I want to be. I want to be someone who can give, give, give and not take anything. But right now I have nothing financially to give, and I guess that's from where most of my problems come in, is the money issue. Because my parents, my friends, they're all making money. And for me to be in school making peanuts, it makes me feel very weak and it's frustrating. [00:17:08.4] (pause)
And I'm trying to deal with it. Again, since we've been talking I've been a lot better. I've been able to gather my thoughts and been able to understand more that what I'm doing is for the right, and when it does happen and when I do get a job everything's going to be okay. But the here and now, it's just, it's frustrating.
THERAPIST: It doesn't sound like you feel it's temporary, that you're not – I mean you're working because you're working in school. But that you're not getting financial compensation or much, it seems like it doesn't feel temporary at those times. It's just; other people are making money, you're not. Period. [00:18:01.3]
CLIENT: I guess that's a fear of mine because I feel like I don't know, I've never really felt the taste of making any money. I mean, yeah I was at a job where I was making 50,000 a year.
THERAPIST: Where your girlfriend now still works?
CLIENT: Yes. But that wasn't... to me that's not real money. Real money is being able to make enough money where you can support a family. You can support a mortgage payment. You can be there for a car payment if you have to. Pay your electric, your food, your water, all those bills. To me that's making money. Even if I have to save $50 a month, to me that's still money. I feel I'm only a quarter of the way there. And it seems like every time I try to move up, I move backwards and I really can't make up my mind. [00:19:01.8]
You know, what I wanted to do until I made this move to go back to school and to work with what I have a passion for, and that's working with kids. And I just kick myself every day that I waited so long. And that just, it frustrates me. It frustrates me that I had all these opportunities in front of me, I could have used them right away and I didn't. And it just, it bothers me. Because I feel like where everybody's hitting the peak of their career and just establishing themselves at the next tier, I'm still trying to get into the first tier. And it really, it bothers me. It bothers me a lot.
THERAPIST: Well it seems like a part of it is tied up in the fact that, just logistically, that you're living with your parents and feeling like you're not independent. And then sort of emotionally what that means, that you're living with your parents. [00:20:02.2]
CLIENT: Mm-hm. And my parents helping me out. My parents gave a couple of bucks this weekend. They asked me, I didn't want to take it, but...
THERAPIST: A couple of bucks, that's just going to get you a coffee at the ski lodge.
CLIENT: It's not, it wasn't that. It was like a couple of hundred bucks. But like I said...
THERAPIST: I guess big bucks is too literal.
CLIENT: But like I said...
THERAPIST: A couple of bucks, that's like (overlapping at 0:20:23.4)
CLIENT: No. But it was really hard for me to take that, but at the time I needed the money because I had just paid off the school loans. They knew because my payments were due. I had to pay my cell phone bill, and I had a lot of payments coming in. Then I needed a payment to pay for my car, and it's just really frustrating. Because it seems like every time I think I can catch up I can't, because something else is coming in. And then I got a notice that says my unemployment ends on Sunday and that I need to re-file. I can't re-file until Thursday, and the other day I tried to re-file before and I was on the phone for two hours and they told me I had to wait 'till my benefit ends. [00:21:19.1]
THERAPIST: That's frustrating.
CLIENT: So there's just a lot of kicking me to the curb, which I'm kind of used to, in a way. Because when I was trying to leave CareFirst before, every job interview I went on they told me I needed experience. And my argument to that was, "Well unfortunately I have no experience, but if you pick me for your position that'll be more than enough experience that I'll need." And it just wasn't working and it was frustrating me. Because you keep telling me you need new people, you don't want to pay the other people, but you're telling me I need more experience. How does that work? And I just felt like I was running in circles because that was what I was hearing all the time. [00:22:08.2]
THERAPIST: We were talking before about feeling kind of, not down on your luck but just kind of down. And then you started thinking about how people keep you down, or put you down. That was where your mind went to next.
CLIENT: Mm-hm. It did. It was. Because I kept getting frustrated. I wanted to move up, I wanted to move on and I couldn't. Because I was just, like you said, I was down already and people were just – it felt to me that people were just kicking me down.
THERAPIST: Well maybe there's sort of a confusion or ambivalence. Like are you the one holding yourself back, or are other people holding you back? Maybe you're not sharp.
CLIENT: I think it's both, to be honest. I mean I can be pretty upfront about who I am in job interviews. I'm just myself. And I don't know if myself helps me or hurts me, which confuses me. I don't know if my first impressions are good or bad. I mean there's a lot of stuff where I think... I'll meet people for the first time and think that it went well. And then I'll talk to a mutual friend that knows them, they said that I was a complete dickhead. It's confusion on my part, where I can kiss ass and I can do all that stuff. And I wonder if people think that I'm very fake person. And this is where it comes back to me telling people what they want to hear and getting me into trouble. And then me trying to fix all those problems. And I just wonder if all the damage that I've done before is what's preventing me from moving on. Is that me taking this approach of telling people what I can do, what I can't do. Telling them what I've read online about how to do an interview. What to talk about. Just telling them what they want to hear. Is that what's holding me back? Is my resume holding me back? It's very, like you said, it's confusing. Because I don't know where to go. [00:24:35.0]
I haven't really had any good direction or good teaching. I've had support, but I don't know if the support has been good enough or not. And it really is frustrating because I do feel down on my dumps, because there were jobs that I really wanted and I didn't get them. That hurt me because I don't know what I did. [00:25:04.3]
Or I ask myself what I could have done better. I don't know. I really didn't know what it was. (deep sigh) It's been very frustrating because every time I think I can take the next step forward. When I get kicked down I feel like I take two steps backwards. And it's like I said, I'm still trying to get up the mountain but I feel like I'm only at the base. And to me that's frustrating.
And I think that's where my anger comes in. I think that's where my rage came in. Whereas I was making excuses. I was blaming other people, I was blaming myself. But there's only so long where you can attack other people and the onus is on you. And I think the hard reality was accepting the fact that I was accountable for my actions, and I was accountable for what I did, but I can't be accountable for what they did. I can't be, I don't know what goes on in their head. I don't know the damage I've done to them, how severe it is.
And that's what frustrates me with my girlfriend is I don't know how much damage I've done to her. I don't know if she truly does forgive me. I don't know if we can ever have a trust because of what I did.
THERAPIST: And what kind of damage do you feel you did to her?
CLIENT: A lot of it is trust. A lot of it is emotional, where I know she'd be there and just try to talk to me and I just unload. I just scream and berate for no reason. I do feel that I did treat her badly. I did used to attack her. I did... Emotionally and mentally I don't know what kind of damage I did, you know. And I just don't know where her head is about me right now. Now being here I do realize what I did. I am sorry that I did that, but it was done and now I'm trying to fix it. But to be honest, I can only fix my part. I would be devastated if she said, "You know what, I can't do this anymore." Because I know that that was all on my part. [00:28:07.9]
THERAPIST: Is there a reason you feel that she would say that?
CLIENT: No.
THERAPIST: So it's mostly coming from your fears?
CLIENT: Mm-hm. It's my fears. It's me living with (sighs). I guess it's me living with all these fears I have now because my fears, I think, get the best of me. And I haven't conquered them. I don't know if I can conquer them. I don't know how to start overcoming them or where to begin to knock them, start knocking on their doors and just getting them out there. I don't know. And a lot of it is probably me keeping a lot of stuff inside, or just avoiding problems or avoiding talking about emotional topics and sensitive topics. And just putting it on the backburner and hoping that it'll just burn away. But it's not. [00:29:19.0]
And I just, I have a tough time opening a lot of the doors to my fears and just expressing those fears. Moving on from those fears.
THERAPIST: What happens if you open the doors?
CLIENT: Then the anxiety kicks in and I don't like feeling like that.
THERAPIST: The anxiety about what?
CLIENT: The anxiety about thinking about the fear and how the fear triggers other fears, that triggers other fears, that just... I get overwhelmed and then I start really getting a lot of anxiety and I have to do something to forget about it. [00:30:07.2]
THERAPIST: Well if you open the doors then at least you don't have to worry, "What if the doors open?" Because they're already open.
CLIENT: But I open... I don't like opening the doors because then I get that anxious feeling. And I guess what I'm saying is, me starting stuff and not finishing is probably the best way to answer it. Because I do want to do all these things. I did take the step to move out, and now I moved back. I started the process, but I didn't finish it. Just like me trying to move onto the next level, I started the process but I didn't finish it. I guess that's part of my fear too, I can't, and part of my commitment is I can go half way, quarter of the way, three quarters, but I guess a lot of my fears is completing stuff and having the accomplishment of doing stuff. [00:31:17.0]
I mean, yeah I completed college, I completed high school. I'm about to also complete a master's degree but there's other stuff in life that I feel like I have so many open cases that I just, if I close them, I will probably feel better about myself. But I don't know. I don't know why I stop working on them. Stopped pursuing what I needed to pursue. And to me that's frustrating because that a lot in myself, and I see that's probably why I'm so down. Is because I do have good visions, I do have a good head on my shoulders of certain things that I want to do, but I'll never do them. And I don't know why. [00:32:13.4]
I don't know if it's motivation. I don't know if it's fear. I don't know if it's... I don't know. And to me that's frustrating. I feel like I'm holding myself back and I don't know how to move myself forward.
THERAPIST: Well it seems like in living back at home you're sort of purchasing a sense of safety with your self-esteem. It's like your self-esteem is the price you're paying for some sense of safety and security.
CLIENT: Yeah I guess you could say that. I do understand the fact that moving home is a safety and it is a comfort. But after being out, I don't know what I want. I don't want to be at home. I want to be with my girlfriend but I don't want to be in Providence. I just feel that that's too far away from what I have going on. (deep sigh). But again I don't want to give her false hope anymore. I don't want to talk about moving in together any time soon, because right now I know I'm not ready. [00:33:34.3]
And this is, I guess, where all my fears come in or where we were first thinking about it and talking about it. This is where I got myself into trouble, is talking about all this stuff. Talking about pursuing this future together. Starting and then abruptly ending it. And to me that's just – I don't want to do that anymore. I want to be ready to start stuff and complete stuff. Once I start a project, or whatever it is, I want to be able to live it out 'till the end. I'm tired, like I said, of just opening these doors, leaving them open for a little bit and then closing them without doing any work. It's very bothersome to me and I just, I don't know, I guess that's what keeps me down. Is because I say I'm a hard worker but in a sense how hard am I really working to do all this stuff? And that's what bothers me. [00:34:49.3]
Because I tell people I'm a hard worker, but in my mind... I know that I am, I know I'm a hustler. When I was younger and even now, I used to work two and three jobs. But how hard am I really working? And I don't know. I don't know. I don't know what is hard work, what is quality work, what is finishing a project. I don't know what it is. And that's what's frustrating to me, is because at my age I feel like I should have a direction. I should feel like I have a sense of what I'm doing, and I feel I don't. I feel I have no direction. I feel I have no grasp on what it is I want to accomplish in life. And to me that bugs me. It bugs me a lot. And I just try to move on with it, but it seems all my actions just keep pulling me back. [00:36:04.4]
And to me it's frustrating. It really is, it's very frustrating. And I don't... I don't know. I get angry at myself sometimes. And it's very painful. It's very painful. (pause)
I guess again this all comes back to, like you said, my self-esteem and mostly it's my image. I have this vision of my image being huge. I kind of have a big ego. I kind of do like being the center of attention like I mentioned earlier. I do like having the spotlight on me. But when I'm not doing anything and the spotlight's not on me, people aren't around looking at me and focusing their attention on me I do feel sad. I feel like just a regular, ordinary person. And I haven't come to grips with it yet. [00:37:25.7]
THERAPIST: What does it mean to be a regular, ordinary person?
CLIENT: Just blend in. (pause) And people tell me this all the time. You go everywhere and there's not some people that don't know you. If I go somewhere and nobody knows me, I don't know how comfortable I'd feel. I don't know how different it would be. Like this weekend I didn't know anybody. There was no chance I was running into...
THERAPIST: Where were you? [00:38:00.3]
CLIENT: We were in Vermont. And there's no chance of me running into anybody that I knew. And I kind of, I was okay with that. I really was. I was okay with that. Where it was just her and I, and we just had times. And I enjoyed her company for once in a long time.
THERAPIST: So why do you feel you wouldn't be okay with that in other situations?
CLIENT: Because I'm not used to it. Since I was 13, 14, everywhere I went people knew me. Everywhere. And to go some places and to get older where you meet new people. And new people that you've met along the way or on the way, to go somewhere where you're not noticed is different. [00:39:04.2]
It really is because I can see where my girlfriend got upset was every time we'd got out we'd go to a sporting event or just go out in general, there were four or five people that I knew. And she didn't know anyone. And it was frustrating to her because she just wants her and I time. And I didn't know what that was 'till this weekend. I didn't know what she was looking for until this weekend. And it finally started to sink in well I don't need to be (sighs) the focus of everything. The center of attention. The, "Oh I know this guy. That's the person (inaudible at 0:39:47.4) of blah, blah, blah." I can live with that. I say I can, can I? I don't know. It's an adjustment that I'm slowly making.
THERAPIST: What does it mean to you when people know you where you go? [00:40:09.6]
CLIENT: I don't know. It just makes me feel good. It just makes me feel good, like oh I know a lot of people. Like, oh okay, "How do you know him?" "Well through hockey." "How do you know him?" "I went to school with this person." "How do you know this person?" "I worked with him." It just makes me feel good. Just knowing the fact that I go somewhere and I can see 5 to 10 people that know me. They may not know each other, but they all know me. And I guess that kind of gives me a boost of confidence that all people see me in a good way.
THERAPIST: It makes you feel important?
CLIENT: Yes. It makes me feel, yeah, important. It helps my ego. Because again that's what I have, is a big ego. I like to be the center of attention. [00:41:07.1]
THERAPIST: Well what you're describing though is the opposite. Feeling that you need other people to make you feel good and not... You're describing not starting with a big ego, to use that language, like a smaller ego. And you feel like knowing people helps to boost it.
CLIENT: Well that's what I like.
THERAPIST: Right. But I guess what I'm saying is that, that's not a big ego, that's... I guess it depends on how you're using, maybe we're just using it in (overlapping at 0:41:34.8).
CLIENT: Maybe it is just my confusion then.
THERAPIST: I don't know. But it's like what you're describing... Well to put it in different language. You're describing it, in order to feel good about yourself you want other people to know you and see you to make you feel important. But you're not starting out in a place of a big ego or feeling good about yourself. You're starting in a different place.
CLIENT: Yeah. No, I am. That makes sense because I do. I do feel like when I'm down nobody sees me when I'm down. But whenever somebody sees me I feel like... If I'm not at work, I'm not doing anything, if I'm at a social event that's where I feel like I'm more bubbly. [00:42:16.5]
THERAPIST: So what do you think the difference was this week that made you feel okay being just with your girlfriend?
CLIENT: (pause) (sighs deeply) Honestly, I have no idea. It was just a natural feeling. I'd never done anything like that, and I never had a relaxing weekend where it was just us just doing our thing. Because every be it trip or vacation that I went on when I was younger, it was always with 5 other people or like 10 other people. It was always a big family gathering. [00:43:08.3]
And to just be the two of us and when the two of us are just there, it really was good. Because usually when I go on vacations, I'm always running around doing this, doing that. And I'm never really relaxing. And this one I kind of felt relaxed. (chuckles) We had nothing planned, nothing to do. We just went to nice dinners and we went skiing and that was it. That's all we did. And to me, for someone who's not known for that, it was different but in a way it relaxed me. It helped me finally understand what she wanted. Because when we went to Cancun two years ago, it wasn't like that. I was very complaining. I was very irritated because it was just us. And I didn't know how to – what to do because I'd never been on a trip where it was just two people. I never did any couple things, and to me it was very different. And I feel bad because I felt she had a terrible time because of me. And looking back on it, I know how much that hurt her because she planned all this stuff for us to have a good time and I didn't really like it. [00:44:44.9]
I guess it comes back to when I was a kid, we never really went on any family vacations. And she comes from a family who travel around the world. Did everything. (chuckles) It's just two totally different worlds. And again it's getting me out of my comfort zone and she's slowly penetrating it which I do appreciate, her pushing me to do new things. Getting me out there to do different things. Getting me to travel. I mean, before I met her I was only on an airplane once. I was petrified of flying. And since then I've been to Montana, Miami, going back to the Chesapeake for a second time. Detroit. It's been crazy. I can't believe how many times I've actually fallen on an airplane. Am I still anxious about it? Yes. Do I like it? No. But do I do it for her? Yes. I mean it's very uncomfortable for me, I'll just say that. [00:46:02.1]
THERAPIST: Flying.
CLIENT: Flying. I don't like to fly. And then when we went to Cancun, and part of the reason I don't like to fly is just I don't feel like I'm in control. I told her that I'd drive anywhere. She doesn't ... Like, "Why would we do that?"
THERAPIST: You're not in control. The pilot's flying the plane. All you have to do is sit.
CLIENT: Exactly.
THERAPIST: You know "C", we're going to need to stop for today okay.
CLIENT: Okay.
<b>END TRANSCRIPT</b>
