TRANSCRIPT OF AUDIO FILE:
___________________________________________________________________________________
BEGIN TRANSCRIPT:
COUNSELOR: Hi, is it wet out there?
PATIENT: Oh yeah. It really is.
COUNSELOR: It looked like it stopped a little bit but it is still coming down?
PATIENT: Yeah, it goes on and on if it starts raining hard and drizzling...it is a day for ducks.
COUNSELOR: M-hmm.
PATIENT: And staying home too.
COUNSELOR: Did you drive over here to the appointment?
PATIENT: No, I leave at four and take the train. I get off at 54th and I take the cab.
COUNSELOR: It is a little bit of trek, huh?
PATIENT: Yeah. You can't drive because where would you park?
COUNSELOR: So, how are you?
PATIENT: I don't know what to say. I am sort of blank right now. It is like what I always say when I work in the police station but it is very stressful so when you come out of there, it is hard to come down from that.
COUNSELOR: And then you are busy on the road and coming over here?
PATIENT: I have a lot to think about.
COUNSELOR: Do you find yourself thinking about it before you come in?
PATIENT: When I leave I do. And sometimes I think...like I have thought about some stuff. It seems like (inaudible 2:04) I never really thought about. I can't even remember the last session.
COUNSELOR: Well, if you do remember things that you either thought about right after you left or before you came in, as you go along bring them up.
PATIENT: I don't know what to really talk about right now.
COUNSELOR: It is hard to get started?
PATIENT: Yeah.
COUNSELOR: Well maybe we should talk about that then (chuckles). Does it feel like you are drawing a blank or feeling like: "We need a jump start." (3:03)
PATIENT: I don't know. I guess I feel like I should be talking about something but I am sort of blank.
COUNSELOR: Okay. Tell me about blank?
PATIENT: There is nothing in there. I am empty.
COUNSELOR: So your head feels empty. Your mind feels empty.
PATIENT: Like I am not in the mood for this.
COUNSELOR: Well, that is a little stronger than empty. For me anyway that conjures up a different image. You are not in the mood for it. That suggests there is some feeling there. That they have a definition to them.
PATIENT: Yeah, like I am sort of overwhelmed, you know. It is like you get out of work, you have got to go on the train; you get the train, you get off the train and get into a cab; and then it is like, I am here. I don't know. So I am not in the mood to be sitting here talking. I am in the mood to have a cup of coffee and daydream. I know what you were going to say: "What would you daydream about?"
COUNSELOR: Why might I say that?
PATIENT: Why might you say that? Because you have said things like that in the past.
COUNSELOR: And so I might say that once a week and get you going?
PATIENT: No. So, want to know what my daydream would be about?
COUNSELOR: Sure, it is as good a place as any. It sounds like you just jump started yourself.
PATIENT: I really want to be on vacation. I want to be out in the southwest so my daydream is about that.
COUNSELOR: Why there? Any particular reason?
PATIENT: Because I have been on vacation a few times out there. They were really beautiful vacations. The pace is much slower. The sky is really (inaudible 5:34) on tall buildings. So anyway, it is a real good trip. It is refreshing.
COUNSELOR: So you are daydreaming about something that you have done before?
PATIENT: Yes.
COUNSELOR: And that obviously felt good? (5:56)
PATIENT: Well, yeah it was a nice experience. I intend to do it again in the summer. Like I sort of wish that it was here earlier.
COUNSELOR: Isn't that where Kendal is going for...? Isn't that one of the issues that you brought in early on? Your concerns or feelings about her going out to southwest for the summer?
PATIENT: Well, that is not going to happen. We have in the past taken vacations out there. We have been there about four times together already. And then whatever she was going to do with her profession, it didn't pan out. She is going to be in Oregon instead.
COUNSELOR: Which is where she was last summer, right?
PATIENT: Exactly. So for two weeks she is going to be in Oregon and on one of my vacations I am going to meet her in Oregon and then the other one we will go out to southwest and do the trip that we have done before - white water rafting on the Tennessee. So we are going to do that. It ended up that that didn't even turn out.
COUNSELOR: So does that mean there is no issue there with that? Or how do you feel about her going to Oregon.
PATIENT: She loves just, like, to travel in her profession. I think the issue is that I have a hard time with that. Like either I should think a different way - like when she gets an opportunity to go away for the summer, I should feel happy that she is going to go away for the summer. But I don't feel that way. I feel like I don't want to be living the summer without my lover. The summer is a long time. Last year when she went to Oregon, she was there from May to the very end of August. The issue is my issue. I feel that I am supposed to feel differently - more supportive of her doing that. I don't - that is not how I feel. So, of course, I beat myself up because I don't feel that way. If I was supportive I would be happy she was gone - to have that opportunity to go away for the summer. (8:56)
COUNSELOR: But it is no longer an issue now because she is not going?
PATIENT: But it will be I am sure some time in the future if she has the opportunity. One of our plans together - our long-term plan - is that we would move out to the southwest. This is the feeling I get - I don't know where this comes from - but say she went out to the southwest for three weeks or a month to this ceramic workshop. I feel like - let me see if I can explain this right; I am sure it is a very immature feeling - something is taken away from the southwest. Like something that was supposedly mutual - it was like a romantic place and something that was ours - is no longer that anymore. You know, taken away the specialness of it or something.
COUNSELOR: It is kind of spoiled?
PATIENT: Yeah, spoiled. I don't know where that feeling comes from or why I feel that way. These are the feelings that come up when that happens.
COUNSELOR: But now - today - you are daydreaming about the southwest. That hasn't happened, right?
PATIENT: Well, I am not daydreaming about the southwest. You said if I was going to daydream what would I daydream about.
COUNSELOR: Oh, so this is hypothetical. It is not that you really are. It is kind of where you would want to be?
PATIENT: Yeah, like to be. It is a nice trip - it really is a nice trip. It is like a five day trip, a seven day trip and three days are along the river and four are on horseback - camping. It is really a nice trip. Wild, galloping through mountain and valley, eight hours on a horse. It was wild. I felt like I was in a western. It was so much fun. It takes you away from all of this.
COUNSELOR: As far away as you could from all of this. (11:49)
PATIENT: Yeah, it is so different.
COUNSELOR: When you say all of this, what do you mean? I thought you were talking about this, meaning what you were bringing in here...
PATIENT: Not at all.
COUNSELOR: But you are talking about outside. What about more internal? What about...?
PATIENT: This is a very stressful area we are living in. You get caught up - I get caught up - in the stress. My job is stressful. Chicago is stressful. I find this is a very stressful state. You know, where I live is stressful - there is traffic. And you go out to the southwest and there is no traffic. Everything - people are slower, they move slower. There is wide-open space, beautiful sky. It is like a totally different kind of world there.
COUNSELOR: Can I assume that you are feeling stressed today? Or is that an incorrect assumption?
PATIENT: Oh I have some stress. I do have stress from my job.
COUNSELOR: I understand that there is part of you that is saying: "I don't want to talk about any of that." But it also is why you are here. That is why I am leading you back to it. I think you are saying to me, on some level: "I am feeling stressed out today. Maybe so stressed out I don't want to deal with it." I don't know.
PATIENT: I am not aware that I feel stressed right now. I am aware I have stress but I don't feel, like, stressed out with my job.
COUNSELOR: So you starting...you wanting to think about something that feels wild and as far away from here as could be is not necessarily an indicator for you that you feel stressed and you need a kind of a mental break? It is not something that you have used before to identify that you are really stressed out?
PATIENT: No.
COUNSELOR: Because you were kind of describing it that way. "I am not in the mood for this." You know. And you kind of pursued: "What am I in the mood for? I am in the mood for a cup of coffee and a daydream." Daydreaming about what? Daydreaming about the southwest. So I am wondering what the "not in the mood" is about then. If it is not about stress - wanting to get away from stress - what is it about? (14:56)
PATIENT: Well, what I meant is that I wasn't in the mood to be sitting here at this particular time and talking because I feel as if I don't have anything to say. I feel as if I...sometimes I will come here and I will have a lot to say and this is one of those days where I feel like I don't have anything to say. That is what I meant because you go through the day of work and I went through the whole thing of train and taxi and then here. I sit down and I don't know what to say. I think I need time to wind down and certainly this is not the time to do it (chuckles).
COUNSELOR: Maybe not necessarily time to wind down but it can be a time to go to a different level within yourself. Sometimes during a busy day - a lot of times during a busy day - people often don't mentally check in with themselves. This is a time and a place where you can do that.
PATIENT: I feel like basically everything was okay today. I don't have any chatter...like I don't feel chatty...to have a conversation in your head about things. I don't have that. I am just basically okay. I don't feel inadequate today.
COUNSELOR: Did something happen to impact on that?
PATIENT: I don't know, it could be...maybe because Kendal and I are getting along fine or whatever and that part of my life is okay. Usually when that is out of the water, something is not right with the day. I don't know. I don't even know what I could say about that. I am sure that you will get a clear picture of that. I am sure we are going to have fights again. Arguments or whatever. (18:04)
COUNSELOR: But right now, that part of your life is feeling comfortable?
PATIENT: And my job feels comfortable right now. That too, it is an issue that comes up. The issue of not feeling adequate - feeling like I am a little kid amongst grown ups. Sometimes I feel like I am acting. If they really knew who I was. You know what I mean. Like I just have these feelings of inadequacy. People intimate me. A couple of times I talked about this - about the feelings of inadequacy - and I always say: "That is not the word I want to say." Intimidated. People intimidate me. I get intimidated if I am around people or if I am in a conversation. We have rounds. We get together -the head mayoress, a social worker - and myself and we are supposed to do discharge rounds. And we are all supposed to give our input and basically the social worker tries to, you know, get the discharge plan in the water and I get intimidated sometimes. I get afraid if someone has an aggressive personality. They will ask me questions and I will get very nervous, that doesn't happen all the time but it happens a lot. So I am basically a lost child. Once again I talk about the lost child. There I am. I stay in the background and I am just taking notes and I give my input. I try to be invisible there.
Even at the meetings, when we have the new office staff meetings - that is another one. I want to hide. I don't want to be involved - I am afraid. It is that same feeling of being intimidated.
COUNSELOR: And you want to hide?
PATIENT: Yeah. I am afraid that I am going to sound stupid or that they think I am stupid or whatever I have to say is stupid. That is how it is and what happens is that rules how I act. Because of that I do - I don't say anything. And if I am asked a question, forget it. (21:23)
COUNSELOR: What happens?
PATIENT: I get very nervous. Sometimes I forget the answer. I get very anxious.
COUNSELOR: Do you go blank?
PATIENT: A lot of the time I do. I go blank or if I am talking more than a minute or two minutes, all of a sudden I become aware that people are listening to what I am saying. And then I am not making sense - I forget; I lose it. I don't know how that is. So what it does to me is that I don't want to say anything at all because I am afraid that is going to happen.
COUNSELOR: Are you aware of any of that operating in here tonight? In relation to me?
PATIENT: No. Not right now. I think I have felt it before.
COUNSELOR: Because I am struck by the use of "W" (ph) description; feeling intimidated by what somebody else is going to think and then going blank. Or starting to feel anxious, kind of closing up. Doubting yourself more. From what you describe, what happens for you coming in here - tonight - I am just wondering if that might be contributing to this sense of you having nothing to say or if it might be beyond nothing to say and moving more into that realm that you are describing, another arena of concerns about how I might respond to it - to whatever it is. Whatever is on your mind.
PATIENT: I don't know.
COUNSELOR: You weren't aware of any of those feelings tonight?
PATIENT: No.
COUNSELOR: And when I asked you how you were, you weren't aware of...? (23:57)
PATIENT: I am not aware of any feelings like that. Except in the beginning - when we first started - it was like I am supposed to talk and I don't know what to say.
COUNSELOR: You mean tonight? When we first started tonight?
PATIENT: Yeah.
COUNSELOR: That is the part I am asking about. Were you aware at that moment of any feeling of discomfort or concerns that I would judge what you might start with?
PATIENT: No, the only thing I am aware of is that I felt pressure on myself that I should have to say something. I should come in here and be ready to talk about something.
COUNSELOR: So you were aware of that dialogue with yourself?
PATIENT: Yeah. Just that I should be ready to talk about something. All of a sudden I am sitting here and I am thinking: "Well I don't have anything to say." I should be having something to talk about. I am sitting here, like I am in this project, I am paying money. Shouldn't I be sitting here having something to talk about?
COUNSELOR: You should be producing something. You are paying for it. You are on this project.
PATIENT: How are you going to get better if you don't talk? So that is what is going on.
COUNSELOR: I am really not sure what would happen if you didn't talk - if you just came in here and didn't talk?
PATIENT: That would probably be stressful. I don't know. What are you going to do? Stare, look around? I think that that would be stressful.
COUNSELOR: Because? Can you imagine why?
PATIENT: I don't know you - do you know what I am saying? If I was sitting here with someone I felt comfortable with - I was friends with someone - I would say I would be perfectly fine. Because I guess I would be doing whatever I wanted to do. I could stare out the window or look around.
COUNSELOR: But you don't feel comfortable doing that with me?
PATIENT: I guess not. Because you are there waiting for me to tell you something or talk to you. The purpose of me being here is to tell you things or talk to you about what is going on with me. And for me to sit here and just be staring around and looking...
COUNSELOR: So I wouldn't be meeting the expectations then?
PATIENT: Right.
COUNSELOR: I mean you would be meeting the expectations that I have of you but you were just quiet?
PATIENT: Yeah, silence would probably be stressful. I would probably giggle like a little kid. When you feel uncomfortable you giggle.
COUNSELOR: Is that bad?
PATIENT: No, do you know what it is? It is not bad at all but I don't know you.
COUNSELOR: What does that mean - you don't know me? You don't know what I am thinking or what?
PATIENT: I don't know what you are thinking and it takes me a long time to warm up to someone - a long time. It is not that I think you are going to hurry me or anything but it just takes a while for me.
COUNSELOR: Sure. It sounds like you are talking about trust.
PATIENT: Yeah.
COUNSELOR: A level you can trust. Coming in here giggling or not giggling; talking or not talking with me. Whether you can trust my response to it. I don't know. How do you imagine I would react if you started giggling out of discomfort?
PATIENT: I don't know. Probably I would be thinking you would be thinking that way. "This one is a winner - listen to this one." (inaudible 29:15) How old is she?
COUNSELOR: With all the (inaudible 29:21) stuff?
PATIENT: Yeah, the whole round stuff. (29:29)
COUNSELOR: So you are not blank? I mean there is a whole world going on in there. It sounds like, number one; you need to produce for both our sakes. That that is part of the expectation. You come in here, talk to me and have something to say that will further this. And if you don't, it will be very uncomfortable. It sounds that partially; anyway, it will be uncomfortable because of what you imagine I am thinking about you - saying about you - within myself. "Look at this one; she is so immature. All these dialogues that I am having." So that is far from blank - far from blank.
PATIENT: Well, yeah.
COUNSELOR: No?
PATIENT: Well yeah. I mean, as we are talking, that is how it that comes up. You ask a question and that is the answer. Earlier, when I came in the room...
COUNSELOR: At the beginning?
PATIENT: Yeah, to get the flow of conversation going, until I became aware of this feeling as we were going along.
COUNSELOR: But at first you are not aware of it?
PATIENT: Right. And as you said about silence: how would you feel about sitting here in silence? That is how I would feel. And I am aware of that feeling because a couple of times we were silent and I felt like I wasn't aware. It is stressful. Silence is stressful sometimes. I don't know. Like when you said: "Your face changed a little bit. You had a thought." I didn't really have a thought. I feel uncomfortable here talking about this. A freak. It is making me uncomfortable. I feel like I sound stupid. Silly, I sound silly - I told you that. (32:55)
COUNSELOR: And what we have talked about each time that you have come is there is a big part of you that feels very silly and that that part battles with the other part of you - we talked about last time - that wants to bust through feeling so dominated what you imagine other people are thinking. You feel there is like a battle going on here.
PATIENT: Yeah, and that is true. That is one of the things I remember doing. That feeling of wanting to bust through and just be not worried about what anybody says. And just be who I am, you know.
COUNSELOR: If you want to stare out the window sitting there with me - even thought you don't know me...
PATIENT: I probably would under different circumstances. I think it is in a situation where my director or my partner or here, it seem like you are in a higher position than me. She is in a higher position. Positions of authority or people that have more authority.
COUNSELOR: How do I have more authority?
PATIENT: I knew you were going to ask that (chuckles). It is not that you have more authority. I knew you were going to ask that.
COUNSELOR: As soon as you said it?
PATIENT: Yeah, I tried to...
COUNSELOR: So you are beginning to know me. You are second-guessing me already.
PATIENT: It is not that I am second guessing you. It is just that I sort of knew you were going to say that.
COUNSELOR: You were right.
PATIENT: Well I didn't know until you said it but I knew that that is what I thought you were going to say.
COUNSELOR: Is it hard to imagine that you may be getting to know me a little bit?
PATIENT: No, I think that...no. So what was the question again?
COUNSELOR: About my authority. How I am the authority.
PATIENT: Well, you do have the upper relationship. You do have position here. You are a therapist and you are going to help me figure out - I am not saying you are going to cure me - you are going to help me find my own answers. (36:00)
COUNSELOR: Where does that meet you - upper? What is that?
PATIENT: You are just in a higher position than I am. You are a therapist. I know it is basically an equal relationship in a lot of ways but you have...I can't even think now. See what happens to me?
COUNSELOR: No tell me. Tell me. Put words to it.
PATIENT: I can't. I fumble with words. I can't think of the right words to say. It is hard for me to articulate.
COUNSELOR: And something about it seems like it is in a relationship to me right now. Like if you were sitting here and this was another circumstance. You were sitting with someone else. Maybe you wouldn't fumble and you wouldn't feel that they were in an awkward position. Something about that - that perspective - that really makes you really turned off. Every focus you turn around upon yourself comes up short in a relationship to somebody else, maybe we (inaudible 37:44), in this awkward position.
PATIENT: Did you ask me something?
COUNSELOR: No.
PATIENT: It is like positions of authority or someone who...I feel like this relationship is unequal. I feel that you are higher that I am. I cannot say what I feel about it. You are the therapist, you know. This is the fourth time I have seen you. You don't know me. You know me from, I guess, from the few...you read the other things that I wrote and the other interviews - you know all about me. But our relationship is nothing. We are still developing that. So I don't know you enough yet but I would feel comfortable or feel any kind of equal.... (39:14)
COUNSELOR: That is accurate. There will always be aspects of this relationship that won't be equal because we are here to learn about you - not me. So yes, that is true. But I think your own particular perspective on that is what is going to be important for us and will be helpful for understanding you. We have already seen tonight that maybe perhaps there are some things about me that you know already that you weren't even aware because twice tonight you have been able to anticipate what my next question would be before I said it. So something is beginning to feel familiar to you or there is a knowledge that is developing there.
Given that this a relationship that cannot be equal - just given the nature of what it is - let us look at how that feel to you. What is it like to imagine that this is not an equal relationship yet you are expected to contribute something significant to it?
PATIENT: What is it like for...?
COUNSELOR: How must it feel like?
PATIENT: I guess I feel...I mean, I don't know...I am aware I don't know how honest I can be today. Not that I am aware that I hiding anything - because I am not. But if it came up, I don't know how honest...I don't trust you. It is because I don't know you and I do have a very large problem with trust - I really do. That is something I am aware of.
COUNSELOR: So you don't know how honest you can be with me because you don't trust me - because you don't know me? (41:42)
PATIENT: Right. And there is also that part of me...I don't know you enough to see how you are. I don't know if you are not judging me. It is like when I think of people: if you made a face or something right away, it is something negative about me. It is what I think about people. It is what keeps me frozen.
COUNSELOR: What would you need to know about me in order for you to trust me?
PATIENT: What characteristics, do you mean?
COUNSELOR: Like: "I don't know. I don't know." You say: "I don't know you, so I don't know if I can be honest." What would you need to know?
PATIENT: I guess I would need to know that you like me - things like that. And that you are supportive. That I am likeable or something. See that was hard because like...I would need to know that you like me.
COUNSELOR: what is hard about that?
PATIENT: Well it is hard to say that. Because you are risking. What if you don't like me? So I am saying to you I would need for you to like me.
COUNSELOR: And what if I don't? What does that mean.
PATIENT: Well if I knew you didn't like me I wouldn't be here. Why would I be in here? So here we are - here is a good one. You have got to make me think you like me so I will stay here. Sometimes I get myself in a total...you can't win for losing.
COUNSELOR: It would be, I think, pretty difficult for you to keep coming back here if - at this point - you didn't trust some part of what is going on here as working toward me liking you. And I think you have said that to me in several ways. (45:16)
PATIENT: What have I said to you in several ways?
COUNSELOR: That it is important for you to think that I like you and that I am not sitting here in this chair - in this upper position - being judgmental and critical. But that instead, I am a supportive ally that likes you enough to be able to accept different parts of you. What is striking to me is how judgmental you seem to be with yourself regarding the importance of that. It is almost as if you...an expectation you have of yourself is you should be able to come in here and give absolutely no regard to what I might think or how I might react and just be able to start talking and opening up and almost like you should be able to not be impacted by me. I guess part of what I am saying is, of course you are impacted by me. It is how you are impacted and your ability to tell me about it - like tonight - that is going to help us understand more about you. And certainly not only you with me but also you with you and you with the world.
PATIENT: Yeah.
COUNSELOR: But it is like you don't think you should come in here and go through those kinds of changes?
PATIENT: Yeah, I guess so. Maybe I don't think I should be going through those types of changes. I don't know. And, you know, I fell like...this is how I feel like too: I feel like we are going in circles. I get confused now because it is almost like I am saying: "This is helping but does this help?" Do you know what I am saying? Is there something therapeutic going on with this or am I confused? Or are we going in circles? Sometimes I feel like that is what happens here. (48:25)
COUNSELOR: Sometimes or tonight?
PATIENT: Tonight. I am aware that at times I feel nervous and uncomfortable. When I have to talk about our relationship I get nervous. Even that little thing of saying that you like me made me very uncomfortable - to have to say that. It made me feel vulnerable.
COUNSELOR: How do you feel now? How do you feel about my response to it?
PATIENT: I feel fine. A moment ago, I forgot what you said. I heard everything you said then I guess I was caught in...
COUNSELOR: You were caught in what?
PATIENT: The feeling of going around in circles.
COUNSELOR: Or the feeling of the anxiousness or the vulnerability - you felt the need of saying it perhaps. That was kind of my sense when I was responding to it that almost as if you were...I mean the look on your face almost looked like you were surprised you were even saying that to me. And you were still processing that you allowed that to come out.
PATIENT: Yeah, like:"There was no need for you to say that." I wasn't aware until after I said it that it was hard. As I said, I have often said: "I don't like her." You know. It left me wide open. Like I am telling you that you have to light me up. You would have to like me in order for me to feel comfortable. For me to say that to you - you see I feel like I am going around in circles here - but for me to say that to you makes me become aware that I am vulnerable to your thoughts. Like: "I don't like her." So that is what I project on people - my own judgment. (51:00)
COUNSELOR: Well, let us not take it as far as other people yet, but tonight I think that is really what we saw. Going around in circles? Maybe, but I think that is an important circle there. That circle that is, you know: "I am blank. I don't have anything to say. I am not in the mood to be here. I would rather be having coffee and daydreaming about the south west." To: "What you are thinking of me. I need to know you like me in order for me to be in the mood to be here and to be anything other than blank." I don't think that that is any small revelation. I think that is pretty significant.
PATIENT: Well, it is significant as far as...You know what it feels like? That half, the beginning of it happened in the beginning and this happened here and you put it all together as one thing. And you are saying that is significant? Like I would rather not be here. I wish I wasn't here and I would be having coffee and daydreaming about the south west and...
COUNSELOR: That somehow there is a connection between what happens for you with that "shutting down" kind of feeling. That kind of: "I don't have anything to say here." The connection between that and the vulnerability that you are experiencing and needing some reassurance that I like you.
PATIENT: (Laughs) See what I mean? Like I just needed that reassurance that you liked me. I felt like a kid - that I needed reassurance.
COUNSELOR: Do you think only kids need reassurance?
PATIENT: No.
COUNSELOR: But you feel like a kid when I suggest...
PATIENT: Like I feel it is silly. I don't even know you. It is like I need reassurance from you that you like me. You don't even know me. How do you know if you like me? (53:47)
COUNSELOR: I think, Will, you can take that information on yourself now and use it to criticize yourself more or we can use it in here to understand, number one, part of what happens for you coming in here and the difficulty getting started. That can be useful to us. If we know that sometimes what happens for you - if not all the time what happens for you - when you come in here is that you start to get some anxiety around my judgments of you and that feeling of reassurance that I wasn't judging you. Knowing that that could free you up to talk about whatever is on your mind, that could be useful for us. I don't think you were blank coming in tonight. I think what you were feeling was: "What were these other feelings?"
PATIENT: I was not aware of it. They would come up as we talked - you would think that maybe I would feel it? Then I came in here feeling that and not knowing that I felt it?
COUNSELOR: That is what I am suggesting that we keep open for exploration. M-hmm. What do you think about that?
PATIENT: I will keep it open but I was not aware of anything like that until we talked about it.
COUNSELOR: But you were aware of feeling very vulnerable in risking that - that suggestion that it would be important for me to like you?
PATIENT: Yeah.
COUNSELOR: Well, okay. That is enough for now.
PATIENT: Now I want you to go sit over there (laughs). You know what I mean, that is how I feel in my own space. Like I really do. Some of this stands between us though.
COUNSELOR: Well, now I will reassure you with the fact that our time is up for tonight.
PATIENT: Okay. (56:39)
END TRANSCRIPT
