<font size="4"><b>The Twentieth Day</b></font>

More snowso much that several of the faithful church-goers,
peering out the windows and shivering, decided to remain in
the Day Room. On impulse I gave my name to Miss Brown.


"You're going to church?" She smiled. "Well now, that's
a good idea. But "


"I know. I'll wear my rubbers."


"You should wear a hat, too, what with all this snow."


"I haven't a hat and I haven't worn one in years, summer
or winter."


"We could give you a state hat."


"Please, Miss Brown!"


"Well, if you catch another cold don't blame me." She
shook her head over me. Miss Brown always bundled up
when she went out, and so did Miss Love. I had to admit that
they rarely came down with colds.


Bates took us over to the auditorium. We were snow men
before we got there, the flakes were falling so fast. Other lines
of men were marching along the paths; the procedure was the
same as that for the dances.


It was the same in the auditorium, too, with the men sitting
on one side and the women on the other. A wide aisle was between

[p. <i>148</i>]

"Glad to see you back," I said formally.


"Many thanks. I had a little business to transact in Detroit."
He seemed quite happy.


"They didn't put you back on D-3?"


He coughed. "No, I'm in one of the cottages." He didn't
say which one, but I learned later that he had been put with
a group of old men who listened gravely while he told them,
hour after hour, of his stock market deals.


"How did you get away?" I asked.


"Oh, borrowed some money from a friend down town and
took the train. " He chuckled. "They never thought of looking
for me on the train. I'd still be in Detroit, but those gangsters
got after me again and I had to go to the police about
'em."


A man in back of me tapped me on the shoulder. He had
a winning smile, and I smiled vaguely in return, although I
couldn't recall that I had ever seen him before.


"Good to see you again," he said. "Glad you're feeling
better."


"Thank you," I said.


He offered me a package of gum. I opened it to extract
one piece, but he said quickly, "Oh, no, take the whole package.
Glad you're feeling better."


"He does that all the time," The Financier whispered.
"Thinks everyone's been sick except himself. Must spend a
dollar a week on gum."


It seemed to be the thing to chew gum during the services.
Ralph, at the piano on the stage, was chewing vigorously,
and I suspected the choir of men and women patients
of also indulging in the vice, for they sang listlessly, and

[p. <i>149</i>]

After two hymns The Reverend walked out to the pulpit. He
appeared to be tired. It must be a strain, I thought, to preach
to these people, many of whom do not even hear him. They
must come here from habit, not knowing whyand not caring.
But there were others who were enthusiastic. Their
<i>Amens!</i> could be heard all over the auditorium; some bowed
their heads in their hands throughout the sermon; some wept;
some jumped up and down. One woman patient had to be led
out by an attendant. She was moaning, "Christ is coming!
Our Saviour is coming!"


With Christmas approaching, The Reverend spoke of the
Prince of Peace, but there was a note of hopelessness in his
voice as he said, "We may never have eternal peace in this
world. " Then his voice rose and the hopelessness was gone.
"But that is no reason why you good people here cannot have
peace of mind and soul. "


Peace of mind? Here? I thought: What a thing to tell a
group of people in a state hospital! They wouldn't be here
if they had peace of mind.


But then I thought: You're finding peace of mind, slowly
perhaps, but you're finding it, and if you can find it, so can
countless others, even those who have to be shocked into it
by electros and insulin. Why, I thought, The Reverend isn't
just mouthing words; he's giving hope, and he knows more
about these people than I'll ever know. Perhaps he knows
more about me than I know myself.


"A wise person, The Reverend," said The Financier. He
rubbed the sleeve of his new brown topcoat with tender,
womanish hands. "Yes, peace of mind, that's it. Did I tell
you I bought six silk shirts in Detroit?"


An attendant shushed him. Peace of mind, that's it, I

[p. <i>150</i>]

When we filed out, I thanked The Reverend for his sermon.
I told him a little of what I had thought while he was preaching,
and his face lighted up. "That will make my day," he
said. "I've been worrying about you. I'm glad, I'm mighty
glad, you don't think life is hopeless."


As the others filed by him they bowed or smiled; some
shook his hand; others gave him little offerings: strips of
paper, a gum wrapper, a penny, a cork from a wine bottle.
He thanked them all and put the offerings into a coat pocket.


"I accept everything they give," he said. "I know the
spirit behind their giving."


As we came down the auditorium steps, slipping and sliding,
I saw Suzy, half-hidden behind a tree. A red mitten beckoned.
I glanced at Bates; he had seen her, too. He nodded.
"But make it fast; we got to get back."


It didn't matter that scores were watching. I stumbled
through the snow to the tree, and I felt good inside because
Suzy was smiling, although her eyes were anxious.


"Yack, I went to D-3, but they said you were at church.
So I came here. Yack, I'm so sorry; I didn't mean to."


"I don't know what you're talking about!"


"Yes, you do. But it's over now. I'm all right now, Yack."


"Good! We'll go up the hill this afternoon?"


"Please, yes!"


Bates called.... "I have to run now. One o'clock,
Suzy?"

[p. <i>151</i>]

Her eyes no longer were anxious. I pressed one of the red
mittens and floundered back to my group.


"Ahem!" said Bates and let it go at that.


In the Day Room Len wanted to carry on from last night.
"You know what? Lloyd told me all about it; smug as hell,
he was. They drove out towards Acme yesterday and parked
off the road and tossed one off in the car. She wanted some
more, but Lloyd wasn't up to it. They came back to town, and
he got out and went into a tavern and had two straight ones.
She raised hell, so he told her to scram back home and he
walked back to the hospital. Maybe the guy's got a little
backbone after all."


Lloyd's sex life and his momentary defiance failed to interest
me, despite the hilarity of yesterday. Len sensed how I
felt and dropped the subject, but in a few minutes he went
over to Lloyd, half dozing in a rocker, and pumped him for
more information. Teddy pounced on me; he had writing
paper and a pencil.


"Listen," I said, "you hardly know the girl. And, further-
more, she isn't a girl; she's a woman. If you have to send her
a letter, we'll make it just a friendly one. You can do your
proposing laterin person."


His face fell, but he said, "Maybe you're right."


I took the paper and pencil. "Now tell me what you want
written."


He thought it over. "Well, something like this: Dear
Jeanne, How are you? I am fine. Thanks for the hot dog.
Can I dance with you Thursday night?"


"That seems to cover it," I said, "and it has the beauty of
brevity."


"Then sign it, Yours truly."

[p. <i>152</i>]

"No sooner said than done. Now where's the envelope?"


"Oh, I ain't goin' to mail it. I'm goin' to give it to her tomorrow
at the canteen!"


Well, I was seventeen once, too.


Miss Brown could not understand why I wanted to go
out in the afternoon, and I didn't want to tell her about the
hill.


"You're too keen about this fresh air," she chided me. "It'll
be your undoing some day."


"More factors than fresh air have entered into my undoing."
I meant it as a feeble joke, but Miss Brown looked concerned.
"You're not upsetagain?"


"Well, the pork roast doesn't sit too well...."


"Oh!" She was relieved. For all the paper work she had
to do, the doling out of pills and countless other tasks, Miss
Brown somehow found time to mother her charges. She had a
smile for every patient who appreciated a smilealbeit at
times a harried oneand most of us depended on it.


"Well, then, on your way! You're the only one who wants
to go out. You must be crazy!"


"What a way for a state hospital nurse to talk!"


She blushed and laughed. "Get!"


Perhaps she isn't far wrong, I thought as I struggled up
the hill. Only a balmy person would come out in this snow. It
got into my shoes; it made a white crown on my head and,
when I slipped and fell, it poured eagerly up my coat sleeves.
My glasses came off and I had to dig to find them. But I got
to the top of the hill and walked in a circle, making a path
and trying to keep warm.


The juniper bushes were bowed under the weight of the
snow, and they brought back the winters on The Farm when I
dug a tunnel under our juniper bushes, covered the scraped

[p. <i>153</i>]

I wondered, standing on the hill, if perhaps I should have
made Going to Sea more than a game. If I had turned to the
sea when I was young and breathed deeply of salt air instead
of printer's ink, would I be here now?


Wonder, little boy; wonder all you wish. But do not
dream, for your dream days are over.


I wouldn't have admitted that a few weeks ago. A little
more progress, I said to myself, but in a small voice.


I waited until two o'clock, but Suzy did not appear.

