TRANSCRIPT OF AUDIO FILE:
______________________________________________________________________________
BEGIN TRANSCRIPT:
THERAPIST: Hi George, long time no see, feeling better?
CLIENT: Yeah, I am feeling much better.
THERAPIST: I heard you came by today (inaudible at 0:00:07.4).
CLIENT: I know, I had to (inaudible at 0:00:11.1).
THERAPIST: That's not necessary.
CLIENT: I know. I only did it because I'm always here because I had to go to class anyway (inaudible at 0:00:15.8).
THERAPIST: What was wrong?
CLIENT: I just had a really bad sore throat for most of last weekend, but I feel a lot better now.
THERAPIST: Good.
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: I was like, he's here and then he left. I was, like, oh, okay. So you went to class that day?
CLIENT: Yeah. [0:00:29.5]
THERAPIST: I'm glad to see you're going to class even if you're sick.
CLIENT: Yeah, I figured that it wasn't that bad really. It did make it a little bit harder. I had like a minor challenge in my scheduling, like being (inaudible at 0:00:42.0) my work stuff over, I guess, last weekend when I was recovering from being sick, and this week because I had a test on Monday. (inaudible at 0:00:47.9) yesterday, Wednesday.
THERAPIST: And how did it go despite (inaudible at 0:00:54.1)?
CLIENT: The second one was fine, but I budgeted it way earlier into my schedule, then I ended up doing it because I was sick, and then sort of like slowed me down a little bit. So then I had less time to study for the math test which was the harder one, and it was on a more complicated subject that's not as easy for me as some of the things we did at the beginning of the class. I think it went pretty well because I did spend a lot of time studying, but it's hard to really tell until I get it back.
THERAPIST: Do you think it was something that if you had more time it would have been better or no?
CLIENT: I didn't — like, probably if I'd spent even more time studying I could have felt more confident as I was walking out, but I don't feel like I was under prepared either. I felt like I could have been even more prepared than I was, but it wasn't deficient though, it was a challenging subject.
THERAPIST: Do you have another math test before the end?
CLIENT: Yeah. And the last one actually like counts twice as much as everything else, but yeah, other than that everything else went great. I don't remember what other grades I told you about that I got back from (inaudible at 0:01:44.6).
THERAPIST: I think it was like, there was (inaudible at 0:01:46.0) psyche and was there something else?
CLIENT: Yeah, well, there's other things that I've (inaudible at 0:01:52.4) now, but I got an A on every midterm grade I've gotten back so far, so it's been pretty good. [0:01:56.5]
THERAPIST: Wow, that's wonderful.
CLIENT: Yeah (inaudible at 0:01:59.3).
THERAPIST: And even if this one turns out to be a B.
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: You were sick and you know the reasons for it, and it doesn't have to be like, well, now why bother?
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: Or do you think, is that something that you would do?
CLIENT: I don't think so, unless it's really bad which I don't think it's going to be that bad; that I really got a grade comparable to what I got on my first test when I really didn't study enough.
THERAPIST: And even if it was?
CLIENT: Even if it was, I would know that I tried a lot harder, and that it's just that it was a combination of one sickness and two (inaudible at 0:02:28.8) which were too much for me. I don't know if you know about (inaudible at 0:02:32.6).
THERAPIST: A little bit (inaudible at 0:02:33.0).
CLIENT: And math is really not my (inaudible at 0:02:37.0).
THERAPIST: Even if it was — you did terrible, it doesn't determine how you're going to do in the future.
CLIENT: Yeah, I can still pick up all the things that I didn't get on this test for the next test because the next one, the final one is the cumulative (inaudible at 0:02:48.3).
THERAPIST: Have you ever...
CLIENT: Learn from it.
THERAPIST: Have you ever gone to a teacher for extra help?
CLIENT: I have.
THERAPIST: Really?
CLIENT: Yes.
THERAPIST: This semester or...
CLIENT: Not this semester, no, but I mean, I have gone to a teacher for extra help. [0:02:58.4]
THERAPIST: Is that something that you would consider doing in the math, or you don't think is necessary yet?
CLIENT: I would, I mean, it all depends on how I do on getting this test back, but I didn't go when I got my first test back because I knew that it was really just that I hadn't studied enough, that I hadn't grasped the material because the material is rather easy to grasp. I just didn't really try that hard, but if this is something that's actually more challenging for me to learn, I would definitely go (inaudible at 0:03:21.7).
THERAPIST: Some people are like, oh, that's stupid, it's not going to be helpful.
CLIENT: Yeah. That is an issue for me sometimes, but not — there's like a weird barrier for me versus things I think I'm good at, and things I know I'm not that good at, and math, I'm not ashamed to ask for help because it's not my (inaudible at 0:03:37.1).
THERAPIST: If it was English, and even if you got a C you probably still wouldn't go because (inaudible at 0:03:40.7).
CLIENT: Yeah, then it would be a lot harder for me to (inaudible at 0:03:43.4) and actually do the...
THERAPIST: I know that we had talked about before that you finally wanted to talk about social anxiety.
CLIENT: Yeah. [0:03:51.3]
THERAPIST: Now that everything is in order, or is there something else in the past two weeks that have come up that you want to talk about?
CLIENT: Not really, although there's a little bit, it's sort of related to social anxiety because it's like a social anxiety I'm going to have to face that's like a little bit hard for me to think about how I'm going to face it. That's dealing with the varied reactions of all of my friends at Oberlin when I go up to visit again because I have been in touch with a few different people. Some of them have come to the city and I've seen them.
THERAPIST: Oh, really? Did they come down just to see you, or they were there and you met up?
(crosstalk)
CLIENT: Basically, they were there and I met up. I'm not really there, so it's not like they specifically came to see me, but they all let me know when they were coming, and I was really happy to see some of my friends from Oberlin, and it was great.
THERAPIST: When was that, this weekend?
CLIENT: Yeah, one of them I saw last weekend actually. One of them I saw last week before I saw you on Tuesday, I think. One of my friends (inaudible at 0:04:43.9) I haven't seen, last week I also saw last month or something.
THERAPIST: You're seeing people from Oberlin quite a lot? [0:04:48.4]
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: Because it's not that far?
CLIENT: Yeah, it's not really that bad, but yeah, I've heard from them and also from just like chatting on the Internet with people that are there that...
THERAPIST: So they invited you up, or you kind of invited yourself up?
CLIENT: I haven't invited myself up.
THERAPIST: But you're thinking about going?
CLIENT: I'm thinking about going. I mean, I definitely want to go back at some point in the near future, especially now that I'm not going to be somewhere else in the spring, and I'm going to be here in the spring. I do want to stay in touch with them, and be able to see some of my really close friends who are graduating, and I won't be at school with them when I come back, so this is my only opportunity to know where they're going to be.
THERAPIST: You had said some concern about before when you and Sasha had broken up, especially on the terms of the breakup.
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: Because it (inaudible at 0:05:32.0).
CLIENT: No, and that's exactly what I'm about to get to. I definitely have some anxiety about that, and it's partly because a lot of the people that I've talked to have said that things are really tense whenever they talk to Sasha, and that she seems really on edge about the fact that I'm dating Vicky, or that I'm seeing her still. Because she knows about that through Facebook and stuff because I didn't try to keep it a secret from her. I told her that I'd had sex with her, and that we'd, like...
THERAPIST: Yeah, but (inaudible at 0:05:58.4).
CLIENT: That we'd done that, and then she put everything together from Facebook, I guess, and is now really insulted by that, and was also really insulted by some other Facebook etiquette things about photos and un-tagging photos. It feels like such a...
THERAPIST: Oh, did you un-tag some photos when you were with Sasha?
CLIENT: Yeah. It's such a stereotypical thing and I feel like — I tried to shy away from that once I heard about it, and I stopped doing that because I don't want to antagonize really. It doesn't matter to me that much whether my Facebook photos are tagged or not. It was just something I started doing sort of my own. [0:06:31.1]
THERAPIST: So...
CLIENT: Yeah, I'm sort of anxious knowing that she's sort of still feeling on edge, and also, like at least one of my friends is feeling on edge for her, and actually contacted me and said, like, “Hey, you're, like, driving her crazy with this Facebook thing, give it a rest.”
THERAPIST: How did she know you were un-tagging because they don't get a reminder?
CLIENT: Maybe she's out there checking all the photos that we're in together and (inaudible at 0:06:54.8).
THERAPIST: Or maybe she was looking, I guess, on your page then?
CLIENT: Or something, yeah.
THERAPIST: Yeah, and then it was like, oh, where the hell did all these pictures — how many photos did you un-tag, like five hundred?
CLIENT: Not that many, no. I think it was five hundred photos of me, like in totality that I un-tagged like — probably like 25 of myself or something, just like the most recent ones that I was going through, and I was like, this one's a little bit too much, maybe I'll un-tag that.
THERAPIST: So, hmm...
CLIENT: Yeah, I know that I shouldn't really be that worried about silly Facebook etiquette. One of my friends may be disapproving of me doing this one really limited thing. But what I am worried about is one, having to deal with — I feel like it's just going to make me feel guilty having to confront her, and that's something that I sort of want to avoid...
(crosstalk)
THERAPIST: Do you have to confront her (inaudible at 0:07:42.0)?
CLIENT: I don't, but I'm worried that she's going to confront me basically, and that's sort of like my fear, I guess, in that situation, and also, just having to deal with sort of like a polarized — people who support what I've done versus people who don't support what I've done, but I guess it's really not going to be like that, but that's sort of how I'm imagining it (inaudible at 0:07:59.9).
THERAPIST: This is what I'm trying to find out. The friends that visited Chicago, and that you got to see, today have feelings of polarization towards you, you think?
CLIENT: Well, no, I think that both of them — actually, yes, I feel like probably one of them is maybe in the middle, but the other one is definitely on my side if there were sides involved in this, and has never really been that much of a fan of Sasha, and has always thought that maybe I and her should break up. I think that, for at least that friend, yeah, he is sort of on my side. And the friend that complained to me and said, “You're making things so hard for her with this Facebook thing” is like the one who's like most on her side, who lives with her and has sort of dealt with all of the tasks of converting her, and dealing with her problems after this. [0:08:44.6]
THERAPIST: So when you tagged the photos, do you think it was for you or was it a little dig at her? Let's be honest since this is just me and you.
CLIENT: It was I guess, a little bit of a dig for her, yeah, but I was sort of thinking about it more in terms of, well, this is — but I guess, inherently, it's a dig because I was thinking, I shouldn't be having this be the first thing you see when you look at my profile on Facebook.
THERAPIST: Well, yeah, (inaudible at 0:09:11.7) the first thing you look at my life, you see me and Sasha and that's not my life anymore.
CLIENT: Yeah. So, yeah, I guess there's no way for that not to be a dig really, but that's pretty much how I was thinking about it.
THERAPIST: That's not a dig, that's really more what you want people to see of you?
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: Versus Sasha to suffer?
CLIENT: Yeah. [0:09:29.6]
THERAPIST: I don't think that was really a dig, I think you're a little hard on yourself there.
CLIENT: No, I think that I am too because it was really hard for me because when my friend was telling me about this, and saying that it was really hard for her. I had this reaction where I felt like, oh, my God, I should really totally respect this and (inaudible at 0:09:45.1) not to get in the way, and to be totally deferential to her space. But I was also like — that doesn't really feel like it's true at all. I'm sort of blowing this out of proportion, and maybe I should actually be mad and not really care about this at all, but I couldn't really bring myself to do that. [0:09:59.5]
THERAPIST: Is there any way that you can just feel you understand that Sasha's hurting? But you're not really sure anymore, so you're — you know, feel that I would support her if she needed support but...
CLIENT: But I can't...
THERAPIST: We're not together.
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: And I'm not doing things to intentionally to hurt her, but I'm moving on with my life. When you think about it like that, how does it feel?
CLIENT: That feels like what's actually going on. That feels like how I'm really approaching it, but somehow, I don't know how to embody that in any potential interaction that I can imagine with her or even with her close friends.
THERAPIST: So, say you go up to Oberlin.
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: What's the thing that creates the most anxiety? Are you worried most about your friends judging you, or worried most about an interaction between you and Sasha?
CLIENT: Honestly, like a combination of both of them, and it's sort of tied into a specific group of friends in a specific location, which was the house that I used to be living in. Because three of my closest friends from my grade are all living there, and so I feel like, particularly for them, it's going to be a very complicated issue for them as well as for me, as well as for Sasha because they have to live with her all the time, but also, they're also my friends, and there's a complicated series of judgments to make in that situation, and I don't really know how to address them.
THERAPIST: Well, if you went up to Oberlin?
CLIENT: I probably wouldn't even go to that house though.
THERAPIST: You wouldn't stay in the house.
CLIENT: Yeah, I definitely wouldn't stay. I don't think (inaudible at 0:11:21.8).
THERAPIST: And if you saw Sasha, it would be probably because she sought you out?
CLIENT: Or because we happen to be at the same event or something.
THERAPIST: Which could very likely happen? [0:11:30.2]
CLIENT: Yeah, it's not really that big of a school, and a lot of our friends are the same even the ones who aren't living in the house with her.
THERAPIST: So which anxiety issue would you like to work on first? Judgment of friends or judgment (inaudible at 0:11:43.1)?
CLIENT: Judgment of friends really because I think ultimately, I could deal with her being judgmental and then probably (inaudible at 0:11:48.2).
THERAPIST: And you already know that's probably going to happen.
CLIENT: Yeah, and I know that I'm also probably blowing it out of proportion just remembering her reaction when I actually had this long conversation with her, and told her that I'd had sex with Vicky. She was actually way less judgmental than I thought she was going to be, and that truly took me by surprise. I totally didn't give her enough credit.
THERAPIST: (inaudible at 0:12:04.1).
CLIENT: I did. (inaudible at 0:12:07.0) really close (inaudible at 0:12:09.7).
THERAPIST: It's like on my shoulder. (inaudible at 0:12:13.7) easily distracted.
CLIENT: That's okay, I do too.
THERAPIST: So more about the judgment from everybody else.
CLIENT: Yeah. [0:12:24.0]
THERAPIST: And you know that Sasha — yeah, she might not have as extreme a reaction that...
CLIENT: Yeah, and if she does, I think ultimately, I can deal with that.
THERAPIST: Are you planning on bringing Vicky up to Oberlin?
CLIENT: No.
THERAPIST: So that's not — I mean, you could be being a lot more of a dick, right?
CLIENT: Yeah, no, I definitely could.
THERAPIST: I mean, and Vicky sounds like — does she know that you would go up and visit at Oberlin, and how would she feel about you bumping into Sasha and things like that?
CLIENT: I've talked to her about that, and I talked to her about something that you brought up which was like a really smart plan. I'm really glad you brought it up, I should mention that. I am going to want to hook up with boys in the future, and that we might have to not be together so I can do that because I don't expect her to do some crazy open relationship thing, and it's probably a bad idea anyway. And she pretty much understood that, and we're actually on like, really on a very similar page about our commitment to any potential relationship. Because she's going to — well, she still doesn't know if she's going to grad school at a library school, but she's going back to school somewhere next fall too. [0:13:20.9]
THERAPIST: So she could be anywhere?
CLIENT: Yeah, so we both have a very certain time commitment, and we have no illusions past that point at all which is pretty much where I want to be.
THERAPIST: And you never know, if your relationship changes, you may change your mind about if pursuing that is worth it, to jeopardize this.
CLIENT: But I left all the options up (inaudible at 0:13:38.7).
THERAPIST: That's good because you were being assertive, and you expressed what you wanted as opposed to what you will accept from a relationship.
CLIENT: I know, it's like a really new feeling (inaudible at 0:13:45.7), but yeah, it's pretty good.
THERAPIST: It sounds like the judgment of the friends is the thing that is most concerning, right?
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: Give me a scenario that is what you imagine is going to be really anxiety provoking, you're like at a party and one of your friends come up to you and says, you really broke Sasha's heart, that kind (inaudible at 0:14:13.0)?
CLIENT: It's not even like a direct confrontation that really gets me, although that would be hard for me and I wouldn't really know what to say. And here's part of the problem, part of the reason that my relationship with Sasha was sort of unhealthy in a lot of ways. And part of — one of the reasons that it didn't last is that, I was really socially uncomfortable at Oberlin before I was with her, and that I didn't like change when I started to date her. And in fact, I had this big falling out with my original group of friends who were mostly guys that I'd met in freshman year. And there were two of them that I was most close with, and they always sort of glued this group of people together, and they both got kicked out of Oberlin actually. And so then that sort of like split up this group of friends, and I was sort of adrift and then I started dating Sasha, and I became friends with all of her friends. Originally, her friends are also my best friends in my grade now, which makes it a sort of complicated situation.
THERAPIST: Because they were her friends first.
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: (inaudible at 0:15:08.1) territory over friends thing (inaudible at 0:15:06.9).
CLIENT: And also because I do have this anxiety about not feeling like I'm comfortable with knowing what to do on my own. And I was very happy to have this structure to slip into that was easy for me to fit into (inaudible at 0:15:19.8) finding my own way.
THERAPIST: Maybe it was something that you slipped into, but now you're choosing to go back to hang out with these people. Before it was like, maybe they don't have anyone else to hang out with.
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: I'll chameleon my way in here.
CLIENT: Exactly.
THERAPIST: But now they are your friends?
CLIENT: Now they are my friends. [0:15:33.2]
THERAPIST: If Sasha wants to play that card, they were my friends first, it's been four years, get over it.
CLIENT: Yeah. Maybe one or two of them would actually go and maybe some of them wouldn't, but like...
THERAPIST: Maybe that's what happens, right? That some people will choose to support her even if they like you very much.
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: And feel that their relationship with her is more important.
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: And that's probably what happens in a lot of relationships, right?
CLIENT: Yeah, I feel like it's pretty (inaudible at 0:15:59.8).
THERAPIST: I think eventually, everyone has to choose a little bit.
CLIENT: Yeah, it's hard to totally remain neutral, I think, in this situation.
THERAPIST: So it's not about someone confronting you. It's more about anxiety over that maybe people are judging you silently?
CLIENT: Yeah, and also, more like I would be feeling like that when I was there. I'm pretty sure that I would just be internalizing this voice where I'm imagining that people are critiquing me silently. And I would be really conscious of it, and it would make it harder for me to be really comfortable, or feel like I'd know how to fit in with a new configuration of my friends that doesn't involve also being with Sasha.
THERAPIST: The problem with this situation is, right, it could be a little bit true?
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: I don't know, when you think about the situation happening, you're saying you're feeling anxiety?
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: And what are you thinking?
CLIENT: I'm thinking, oh, it's going to be uncomfortable and then I'm not really going to know how to deal with it because I don't know how to either be assertive and say that, I respect your opinion, but I disagree, and I'm comfortable doing my own thing. Because that would feel like too much presumption to go that far with some of them because I feel like some of them don't really care, but some of them do, and that's sort of mixed. I don't really know how to judge that. And basically, I can give four other reasons, but they sort of boil down to I feel nervous that it will be really easy to sort of like that person, and have that person like me, but there will be so much friction against really staying in touch with them, that it will be easy to sort of drop out of contact with some of those people (inaudible at 0:17:27.6).
THERAPIST: The anxiety extends more than just the...
CLIENT: More than just (inaudible at 0:17:33.2). No, (inaudible at 0:17:32.0).
THERAPIST: This is like future anxiety about the relationship.
CLIENT: Yeah. I know, which makes it more complicated because I'm lumping a bunch of people into this long conversation, that's like an ambiguous my friends, and actually, it's more like nuanced and individual than that.
THERAPIST: But it really comes down to people might think something about me that's not true, and I might not know what to say. [0:17:56.9]
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: And I would be uncomfortable.
CLIENT: Or not even that, I don't think that they would think things that aren't true because I feel like, like Sasha might think things that aren't true. I feel like that's a part of being (inaudible at 0:18:08.3) of your exes, like accrediting things that aren't really true to them, that are a little (inaudible at 0:18:11.6). But I don't expect my friends to think something that's blatantly untrue, but I expect them to interpret what actually did happen in a way that's not very favorable.
THERAPIST: So they might interpret your actions unfavorably.
CLIENT: Yeah, and I couldn't really blame them for that.
THERAPIST: And if they did that, then you wouldn't know how to assert yourself?
CLIENT: Yeah, like I wouldn't really know how to defend myself because it feels like (inaudible at 0:18:31.2).
(crosstalk)
CLIENT: I feel like I can't really say that they're wrong, even though I don't think that what I did was wrong because it makes sense to me, and I understand the path that it took for me to get there. But I wouldn't want to give a detailed explanation of why my relationship with Sasha was slowly collapsing at that time.
THERAPIST: (inaudible at 0:18:50.5). Is it the fear more of not knowing how to assert yourself, or is it the fear that you won't assert yourself at all?
CLIENT: That's a good question. More that I wouldn't know how to assert myself, and that I wouldn't assert myself at all.
THERAPIST: So you'd say something, but it might come out wrong and then that could (inaudible at 0:19:12.9).
CLIENT: Like I'd say something, but it would be sort of half assed, and then I would be really shy and tentative about it, and I'd probably not say anything else, and not really make my point, I think.
THERAPIST: So that you might not get across your interpretation clearly to these people.
CLIENT: Yeah. But the weird thing is that on some level it doesn't even really matter to me that much if they understand my interpretation of it or not. But still the...
THERAPIST: Are you sure?
CLIENT: I guess I'm not that sure because also, the idea of them judging me is really scary for some reason. [0:19:42.0]
THERAPIST: So it's like, if only I could get them to understand my interpretation, then they wouldn't judge me?
CLIENT: Basically, yeah.
THERAPIST: So is it...
CLIENT: Or if only I could get them to either not judge me or even better, understand my interpretation.
THERAPIST: But if I'm not able to assert myself in a — what I want to articulate perfectly, then they might misconstrue my actions and judge me unfavorably, and I couldn't stand it if they did it? And is it maybe it would be awful if they did that?
CLIENT: I think it would be awful, yeah. There's definitely like a — I don't have that much of a tolerance for disapproval, especially from people that I value, my friends (inaudible at 0:20:27.9).
THERAPIST: And you're kind of catastrophizing it because we were talking so far in the future when originally we were talking about it.
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: So it's really more of, it would be awful (inaudible at 0:20:34.9) spirals out of control.
CLIENT: No, that's definitely what it is. Because I'm definitely imagining, oh, maybe they like me, but they don't like me that much, and it won't be really that worth it, they won't really care that much and (inaudible at 0:20:47.7).
THERAPIST: George, I understand that it probably would be uncomfortable, and it might be frustrating.
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: And it might be a little bit hurtful if people didn't really understand why you chose to do the things that you chose to do.
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: But how would it be awful? [0:21:04.3]
CLIENT: It wouldn't really.
THERAPIST: Are you sure?
CLIENT: I mean, yeah, I am pretty sure about that actually. I've thought about this, and even though some of my friends that I've made in my grade are really amazing people, and I'd like to stay in touch with them, and be friends for a much longer time, it wouldn't be the end of the world. I would be — like I still have a lot of other friends at Oberlin that are younger than me actually, like more of my friends (inaudible at 0:21:29.1) so I'd still be in touch with a lot of them. And I feel like...
THERAPIST: So even if these people decided, I can't be friends with George after this interaction?
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: After he poorly explained his reasoning, now I can no longer be friends with George, it wouldn't be awful because you'd have other friends.
CLIENT: Yeah. It wouldn't be awful, in actuality, my life would be fine, it wouldn't really be that changed as much. It's really just that I have a really hard time dealing with people judging me negatively, that's always been an issue for me.
THERAPIST: And it's hard to lose friends, but even if they did, let's say that they do judge you.
CLIENT: Yeah, like all my friends, they all (inaudible at 0:22:07.0).
THERAPIST: It doesn't sound like — let's be realistic, I could do the elegant solution (inaudible at 0:22:10.4) be like, let's suppose they think you're scum. But if we go (inaudible at 0:22:15.3) solution, it sounds like they already kind of want to see you. They still like you, they don't hate you already.
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: But they might be a little unsure how to act because they probably feel conflicted in their relationships, right?
CLIENT: Yeah. [0:22:27.5]
THERAPIST: So even if the interactions didn't go wonderfully this time, would that mean that that was the end of those relationships?
CLIENT: No.
THERAPIST: What are some things that you could do to make sure that wasn't the end of their relationship?
CLIENT: I could try and have contact with them individually without necessarily having me visiting Oberlin and seeing all my friends in a group. I could e-mail them or write them messages on Facebook, or try to see them on my own.
THERAPIST: Yeah, invite them down to...
CLIENT: (inaudible at 0:22:51.0) come to Chicago or something.
THERAPIST: Indiana or...
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: Stay with family. So there's all these other things that you did, so even if an interaction didn't go favorably, it wouldn't be the end of the world.
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: Really?
CLIENT: I know that it wouldn't be the end of the world intellectually, but it does feel like it would be the end of the world sometimes.
THERAPIST: Because it's hard to deal with an uncomfortable interaction for you?
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: And the fact that they might be judging you at the time?
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: But everybody judges everybody at some time, right, George?
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: Right?
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: So everybody judges, and that's what they're probably going to do because that's what human beings do, right?
CLIENT: Yeah. [0:23:27.4]
THERAPIST: But if they like you and they're your friends, and you put forth effort, and show them that, oh, they're wrong (inaudible at 0:23:33.8) about me.
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: I do care about relationships and put an effort and do all this stuff, then you probably could maintain the friendship.
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: Despite Sasha's wishes maybe that you didn't.
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: Right? So does that make you feel any better thinking these more rational thoughts, that it's not really awful?
CLIENT: It does right now, yeah. I know it's definitely reassuring to think that to myself, but the problem is that I have thought that to myself, like I've set myself down. I've been like, I'm not really approaching this rationally. Actually, when I think about it, I know that it's not going to be the end of the world going back to Oberlin, and facing the limited judgment of some of my friends, and it's hard to avoid. And they'll say, don't go back to Oberlin at all which isn't what I want either.
THERAPIST: Well, I think that — here's the thing is that, you've kind of understood that even though you have the (inaudible at 0:24:22.3) tendency in you, you can rationally dispute that on your own?
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: But I think the thing that you're having trouble disputing is the, I couldn't stand that uncomfortable feeling.
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: So even though I know it wouldn't be awful, I still don't want to deal with that. I still don't want to deal with that uncomfortable feeling.
CLIENT: Yeah, that's basically how I still feel even after I rationalize to myself, and realize it's not that bad. [0:24:44.2]
THERAPIST: Have you (inaudible at 0:24:44.6) uncomfortable before?
CLIENT: I have, I mean, when I had that conversation with Sasha I was super uncomfortable beforehand. I was so nervous before I did it, but it was good in the long run, I felt like a big weight had been lifted once I actually did it.
THERAPIST: And you could survive it and it's worth it to have these relationships. And I'm sure that uncomfortable feeling probably won't last the entire weekend.
CLIENT: Yeah. And another thing that I know rationally is that it's way more uncomfortable to not actually reveal what you're thinking or feeling, and totally keep it in the dark, and then to let it sort of fester and build up, and then it gets a lot worse.
THERAPIST: But even if you didn't reveal it?
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: That would be so uncomfortable, could you stand that, to not say, well, you stood up for (inaudible at 0:25:25.6) and you've had these uncomfortable feelings for a long time, right?
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: So maybe for you it would be the thing to express it, and you can plan out what you're going to say, or you can just say, this is what I chose to do, sorry if that wasn't the best decision, but I chose it for myself and I'm happy, so I still want to be friends, can we move on?
CLIENT: Yeah. I think that's pretty much all I have to say (inaudible at 0:25:48.6).
THERAPIST: Remember when we talked about less is more, you don't have to explain everything to these people? You don't owe them that.
CLIENT: And that would actually make it seem worse in a way, if I was suddenly spouting all of this detailed information about like my entire life. [0:26:00.7]
THERAPIST: Yeah (inaudible at 0:26:02.4) things were difficult, and now I'm feeling better.
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: That's all you have to say, right?
CLIENT: (inaudible at 0:26:09.5).
THERAPIST: And they can ask me (inaudible at 0:26:11.1) I don't really want to talk about that. (inaudible at 0:26:14.7) do that some other time. You could say that if you don't want to talk about it while you're up there.
CLIENT: Yeah, I could.
THERAPIST: Right, you don't have to talk about it in the middle of the party.
CLIENT: Yeah. I don't think it would really come up in that situation anyway.
THERAPIST: So I think the disputing that, I could stand it is more of yours because you're so worried about the uncomfortable feeling, that uncomfortable feeling.
CLIENT: And that's definitely a part of my social anxiety in general too because I know that in the past, I overcame or overcome the problems of dealing with the initial anxieties of getting to know someone new because I've made a bunch of friends in my life. I haven't stayed with the same group of friends since I was younger, so it's not like I haven't dealt with social anxiety in the past, but even when I know that when I'm facing it again, it's still hard for me to reconcile, oh, my God, I have to do this hard and scary thing. That seems like too much for me.
THERAPIST: Yeah, because of the feeling that you would have to deal with if you did that hard and scary thing?
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: Not because the hard and scary thing...
CLIENT: Exactly, like I know that it's not really that hard and scary, it's just that I build that up in my mind a lot. [0:27:16.8]
THERAPIST: And you say, I have this feeling, I can't stand it, I can't stand it, I can't stand it. What do you think, are you more likely to go through with it if you tell yourself I can't stand it?
CLIENT: No.
THERAPIST: And you're likely to feel that anxiety.
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: So what can you tell yourself instead?
CLIENT: That I can stand it, I guess.
THERAPIST: And even if people — even though I'd really like them...
CLIENT: Even though it might not work out sometimes, it will still be worth it in the long run because it's not going to be that bad most of the time.
THERAPIST: And even if I don't want people to judge me, they might?
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: And I can stand it, and it's worth it to stand it.
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: Right? So when are you thinking about going up?
CLIENT: I'm still going to give it a little bit more time because it's only been like a month since I actually had that conversation with her pretty much. And I was thinking, definitely I'm going to wait until it's December or maybe even after the holidays, I'm not sure.
THERAPIST: Well, it still kind of sounds like you're...
CLIENT: I'm still giving it a wide berth, yeah.
THERAPIST: A what?
CLIENT: A wide berth.
THERAPIST: (inaudible at 0:28:12.9). What do you mean?
CLIENT: I just feel like it will be a little bit easier after a little bit more time has passed, and that Sasha's feelings about it will have cooled, like she won't be complaining about it as much (inaudible at 0:28:27.8).
THERAPIST: It sounds like you're also...
CLIENT: A little bit anxious to actually deal with it. It's partly also...
THERAPIST: But also, you're giving her — I don't know if you're being assertive to the things that you want. I mean, if you want more time between the next time you see Sasha, if you're worried about your reaction.
CLIENT: It's not really (inaudible at 0:28:41.1).
THERAPIST: But if you're just trying to be a gentleman.
CLIENT: No, you're right, I am just trying to be a gentleman. [0:28:45.9]
THERAPIST: But if you want to see your friends, you have a right to go up and see your friends, right?
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: I mean, you have waited a long time. When was the last time you went up to Oberlin?
CLIENT: It was the beginning of September, so yeah.
THERAPIST: And you're only two hours away.
CLIENT: I know.
THERAPIST: And you probably wanted to go up.
CLIENT: Yeah, I did actually. I wanted to go up a few times, and some of my friends had asked me to come.
THERAPIST: Are friends going to all attack you when you go up there?
CLIENT: No.
THERAPIST: And say what a dick you are? Are you really worried about her reaction or their reaction to you coming up so soon?
CLIENT: Not their reaction to me coming up so soon, but more her reaction really. And also, because I know that just from having dated Sasha for two years, that like when she has a problem with something, it's a very public thing. She's the sort of person who actively involves and engages with other people when she's having a bad situation or having a problem with something, and actively asks for all of her friends to help her deal with it, and really drags them into to whatever it is (inaudible at 0:29:42.6).
THERAPIST: Well, that's pretty (inaudible at 0:29:42.2) of her.
CLIENT: I guess so.
THERAPIST: (inaudible at 0:29:43.8). So yeah, and if you have a lot of female friends, they're probably pretty involved.
CLIENT: I do, yeah.
THERAPIST: So yeah, they probably will be, but I mean, you could always check out to see, do you want to see me? I miss you guys, I'd like to come up.
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: Instead of worrying about if Sasha wants, you know?
CLIENT: And I've had those conversations with some of my friends, and the ones who I feel more comfortable with, and I'm less worried about them judging me because honestly, for some of my friends, I've had this sense that they've sort of felt like I'm the underdog in the relationship for a while when it was still a relationship. And that they sort of always felt like they were on my side or something, and so I'm not really worried them afterwards. [0:30:22.2]
THERAPIST: Do they want you to come up? When you see them, are they like, oh, you should come up to Oberlin?
CLIENT: Yeah, when I saw both of my friends, they both asked me when am I coming to Oberlin, and they wanted me to come up and see them. When I've talked to them on the Internet they want me to come up, so I really don't have that much to be worried about, I guess.
THERAPIST: Yeah, so you're not being really very assertive.
CLIENT: I'm not.
THERAPIST: You're saying, oh, I guess I'll give her more time. She may not be really mad then, then I'll do what I want. Even though I'm (inaudible at 0:30:45.7) relationship with her, you're still kind of letting her control your actions.
CLIENT: Yeah, you're right.
THERAPIST: How do you feel about that?
CLIENT: I guess that I shouldn't, you're right. It was hard not to think about it in that frame, though, of like, well, it's just too soon, like I just couldn't even think about it for a while afterwards. Even though, I guess, almost a month or a little bit more than a month even has passed, it stills feels like that's not really enough time. That somehow she deserves more space or something, but I'm totally thinking about it in her terms, and not really on mine at all.
THERAPIST: I mean, she made her mistakes too.
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: She hurt you as well. You're allowed to do what you want to do. There will — may be repercussions, she might be angry that you came up so soon.
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: But if you want to see your friends and there's limited amount of time...
CLIENT: I doubt even that — like, who knows? But ever since that conversation, I've been trying to give her more credit because I feel like I thought that she was going to be all mean and vindictive.
THERAPIST: So is this the Facebook thing that kind of set you back a little? [0:31:49.5]
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: So if she...
CLIENT: There's also — there's like...
THERAPIST: If you want to be respectful with her, you could call her and be like, I just wanted to let you know I am coming up. I don't know if it's going to be a good idea to see each other, but I didn't want you to find out through somebody else.
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: You could try to be respectful of her there, and let her know, I don't know if you want to not be where I'm going to be, if that's going to be uncomfortable for you.
CLIENT: No, I think that that's probably something that I would do whenever I do go up. I'd sort of planned on letting her know in advance.
THERAPIST: And be like, if you do want to hang out we could — you could have a coffee.
CLIENT: Or something, yeah.
THERAPIST: Alone somewhere so it's not as awkward.
CLIENT: It's not like a confrontation or something.
THERAPIST: Yeah, a confrontation where you just sit and talk. I don't really want to talk about the other stuff, but if you just want to see each other.
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: It's fine. And no, you don't have to if you think she's just going to harass you about Vicky.
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: But that's your choice, you don't have to do that.
CLIENT: Yeah, I think it might be too soon for really like seeing each other and actually having a conversation. But I definitely would let her know that I'm coming up in advance, and just be like, well, I don't think that we should really see each other, but if you want to do that, I'm letting you know that I'm here, and if you don't want to see me, you know that I'm here, so you can avoid me.
THERAPIST: And be like, yeah, but I just really want to see some people.
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: And you're going to do what you want.
CLIENT: Yeah. [0:33:07.6]
THERAPIST: Do you feel like you can do this?
CLIENT: I feel like I can, although actually, I was just thinking that there's another reason which I didn't really talk about at all because it's the only real invalid reason. But I totally minimized it because this is what's actually occupying me more, is thinking about that. But there's sort of like logistical reasons not to go up to Oberlin any time soon because I'm sort of about to start crunch time for finals.
THERAPIST: Oh yeah, so maybe this isn't the time.
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: And you could wait until just before Christmas.
CLIENT: Yeah. Like actually, I think that the only weekend that I don't have something really big coming up afterwards is this coming weekend. And I feel like it's too soon (inaudible at 0:33:42.7).
THERAPIST: And I think that would be great because that's still being assertive.
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: That's still putting your needs first. I'm not saying you need to be like, putting your needs above everybody else's, but it sounds like you never do that.
CLIENT: Yeah. Very, very rarely, yeah. [0:33:58.0]
THERAPIST: So you can plan a trip and you can say, this is the weekend I'm planning on coming up. Get out and tell your friends, and maybe make sure it coincides with when they're (inaudible at 0:34:06.2) finals because that would be shitty if (inaudible at 0:34:10.0).
CLIENT: Yeah, that would be shitty.
THERAPIST: It sounds like you have a plan.
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: So the other homework was, quickly, (inaudible at 0:34:15.4) few minutes was you were going to look up Chicago cooking classes, and did you have a chance to do that?
CLIENT: I did, I mean, there's over 30 cooking schools in the city that have a bunch of different classes. There's the Center for Culinary Education and then — no, I am getting the acronym wrong. It's...
THERAPIST: It's the CIA?
CLIENT: No, it's not. No, it's like LCBC is the acronym.
THERAPIST: (inaudible at 0:34:41.5).
(crosstalk)
CLIENT: Yeah, but I forget (inaudible at 0:34:42.9). It's the Le Cordon Bleu College of Culinary Arts, that's what it is. My mom actually went there (inaudible at 0:34:50.8) program, and according to most of the articles and reviews that I went to of different schools, it's like one of the two biggest cooking schools in Chicago (inaudible at 0:34:58.8) Culinary Institute.
THERAPIST: And they have like intro classes?
CLIENT: Yeah, they have a bunch of different short term classes, and they have a sequential intro classes that start with basic (inaudible at 0:35:09.0) skills and move on to more advanced things. And I thought about doing them to start off with, and having an experience with that. [0:35:15.3]
THERAPIST: Are you thinking about doing that after finals?
CLIENT: There's one that...
THERAPIST: Or the holidays?
CLIENT: I was looking at one actually that runs the last week of November, like right before Thanksgiving because I don't have that much going on for school break then, although I'm going to have family stuff, but I think I could fit in like a day or two or cooking school. So yeah, I was already talking with my parents about signing up for the intro to — I forget what they call it. It's like fundamentals or elementals or something one.
THERAPIST: That sounds great, and you can talk to the professor (inaudible at 0:35:45.5) I'm trying to see if I have a — what's the word?
CLIENT: An aptitude?
THERAPIST: Yes, for this, (inaudible at 0:35:51.8) I would love any comment or criticism that you could give me.
CLIENT: Yeah, because it would definitely be good to get someone's feedback who knows about cooking who isn't my mom.
THERAPIST: And to know that they're not just there — and they know that you're not just there for fun.
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: But to see if this is...
CLIENT: Test the waters for that.
THERAPIST: Yeah, well, it sounds like you have a good plan, George.
CLIENT: Yeah, I was feeling a little bit confused about what else I should do over the spring. Because I was like, should I get a job, or should I get a job in — because I'm not really ready to apply for a job, and I could apply for a job in a restaurant now, but I don't really have that many qualifications. And I feel like it would be a lot easier if I took even a few of the cooking classes first, but like...
THERAPIST: Oh, you mean a job as a cook?
CLIENT: Yeah, a job as a cook. Because there are other things I'd like to try to get a job in too...
THERAPIST: I don't know how much — I'm trying to think, my sister had a boyfriend and (inaudible at 0:36:38.1) was like a cook and like (inaudible at 0:36:40.8) Fridays or something.
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: I don't think he needed that much experience.
CLIENT: I know someone who got into it without any experience at all, and they rose through all the different positions in their restaurant until they were one of the higher level chefs, but, like...
THERAPIST: Yeah, start that over the — and then you say, oh, I actually have this training (inaudible at 0:36:55.4) skills and bla, bla, bla. [0:36:56.6]
CLIENT: Or I could say I'm about to do all this training while I would be starting at your job, so I'll only get better as I start to work or something.
THERAPIST: That could be good.
CLIENT: Yeah. Basically, I was trying to weigh, should I do that or should I find a more active community service thing I could do that would take up more time? Because there's this really awesome thing that I just found out about that Chicago is doing which is like an extended volunteering program at food banks essentially. Because there's so much more demand on food banks now. It's like a really big thing. And they're trying to find long term volunteers who would work at a food bank for three months or five months for a while, and develop a relationship with the people there, and do the same thing for a while. And I could easily do something like that, and also fit in cooking classes at night, or on the days when I'm not working there.
THERAPIST: For the whole spring? Yeah.
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: And then if you could (inaudible at 0:37:44.3).
CLIENT: But I wasn't sure — basically, I'm not sure what I want to commit to yet, and I need to explore the option (inaudible at 0:37:50.2).
THERAPIST: I think as far as volunteering goes, generally, you don't need a lot of time and they pretty much take almost anyone.
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: So I would say go ahead kind of with the things that you need to figure out first, and then kind of throw that in where you can. [0:38:02.5]
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: Because it's volunteering.
CLIENT: It's true, they'll take me whenever I can only go.
THERAPIST: Yeah, you'll work it out. But the other one, you probably need to make a real commitment first.
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: Yeah? Okay, George.
CLIENT: Okay.
THERAPIST: I think we have started early, so we ended early.
CLIENT: Okay.
THERAPIST: You can go home. Do you have any plans for this weekend?
CLIENT: Not for this weekend, no. I have an essay that I have to finish up for next week that I got a lot of groundwork done on, but I haven't really fleshed it out yet, so mostly I'm doing that, and probably going to see Vicky on one of the days also.
THERAPIST: Did you watch Top Chef last night?
CLIENT: I didn't.
THERAPIST: Oh, then I won't ruin it for you. Do you watch it?
CLIENT: I do watch it, but no, I just — what was I doing? I wasn't studying for my test because I had my test yesterday. But I didn't watch Top Chef.
THERAPIST: Right, I watch that show, but I never know what they're doing, and I was, like, oh.
CLIENT: No, it's really good.
THERAPIST: It's good; I won't tell you who got thrown out.
CLIENT: Okay. I totally (inaudible at 0:38:57.4).
THERAPIST: I was glad that woman, what's her face, got thrown off.
CLIENT: Yeah, I know who you mean, she was really annoying.
THERAPIST: She was there way too long; the woman who had cancer.
CLIENT: Yeah. You know, I felt bad for thinking that she was so bad because she had cancer (inaudible at 0:39:10.0).
THERAPIST: That was like her thing (inaudible at 0:39:11.4) cancer, keep me on the job, she was terrible. (inaudible at 0:39:15.7). I won't see you next week because it will be Thanksgiving, we're closed.
CLIENT: Yeah, you're right, Thanksgiving.
THERAPIST: So it will be another two weeks.
CLIENT: Okay.
THERAPIST: Okay?
CLIENT: All right.
THERAPIST: All right, so have a happy holiday.
CLIENT: See you in two.
THERAPIST: All right, thanks, George.
CLIENT: You're welcome. 
END TRANSCRIPT
