TRANSCRIPT OF AUDIO FILE:
______________________________________________________________________________
BEGIN TRANSCRIPT:
PATIENT: [I will set] (ph) my briefcase. I can't live with nothing. (sighs) Well I was wondering on the way up if maybe you could help me focus a little bit and maybe help me draw together what I've been talking about so I can go from there.
COUNSELOR: Is what you're saying is you're uncertain about where to go?
PATIENT: Yeah, either where to go from here or where to go back to. 
COUNSELOR: Well, I mean for me, I really ... I'm really of the belief that you're the one who knows best what's most important for you.
PATIENT: (chuckling) That's how I ended up here!
COUNSELOR: Pardon?
PATIENT: That's how I ended up here because I ran out of that belief that I could ...
COUNSELOR: Yeah, but what to talk about in here really in a way, like I could suggest what to talk about, but I wouldn't know ... I mean I think that you're the person who knows best what's the most relevant thing that feels most important to you. I kind of sense that it's hard for you to put your hand on what that might be.
PATIENT: Yeah, I'm no longer sure, really. 
COUNSELOR: See, because I sense ... I DO sense that you know, you've talked about several things, some of which are more specific, that your relationship with your wife (inaudible at 0:01:54), and some more general kinds of things that kind of how you feel about what you're missing in life [and your] (ph) emotions. Kind of more general things that kind of make you sad beyond the specific situation with your wife, and it's really hard for me to know ... I mean, I don't really feel like I know which of those or others are more important for you. [0:02:29.7]
I see like as you talk, and maybe I can ... what I try to do is help you to focus on what you ARE feeling about what you're talking about, but I don't feel right in TELLING you what to talk about, so ...
PATIENT: Yeah.
COUNSELOR: I sense that makes you feel a little disturbed.
PATIENT: Well, not disturbed necessarily but ...
COUNSELOR: Lost?
PATIENT: A lot of, you know, a lot of the things that we've talked about, I have thought a great deal about prior to ever coming in. And ... but I dead-ended, which is really why I came in, because I reached dead-ends and now I'm not sure where to go. And ... you know, it could be a lot of things, why I'm not sure where to go. But I feel like I need help getting to where it is I NEED to go. And I'm not sure where that is. 
COUNSELOR: Well ... it seems to me you kind of say something about ... and this is very general in a way, about where you should go. It's like you've talked about a lot of things and some things I just begin to sense I understand the things that you're talking about, but I just begin to sense kind of the feelings that are associated with them that is how you feel about them. I mean, like last week, just started to kind of get a little sense of the sadness you felt about missing things in life, but I guess where to go from me and I try to understand what you're saying, is trying to experience whatever those feelings are more deeply. [0:04:41.0]
Somehow I feel like I'm giving you some kind of ideological lecture or something. How does that [strike you] (ph)?
PATIENT: You mean experience some now or in talking about them?
COUNSELOR: Yeah. I kind of feel actually bad in saying that because it's kind of like I'm saying, "experience them," and yet it's not the way it works. You just don't turn a switch and do it. It's kind of a gradual process. So I feel bad in presenting it that way because I didn't mean to suggest that it's flicking a switch and you experience it now.
PATIENT: Yeah. 
COUNSELOR: What are you thinking?
PATIENT: I was thinking that if I were to really let go and experience ... experience them, but not ... not necessarily in the present, but you know, then I probably wouldn't go home tonight. I'd probably walk around and find somebody and just take off.
COUNSELOR: You kind of feel like to do so could be very disrupting of your life. 
PATIENT: Well, let's say it could disrupt the way I live now (chuckles). Bank's closed, I can't even make a withdrawal. [0:06:09.9]
COUNSELOR: But there is something in there it's like ... is there something in there, well I'm not sure that sounds like you're fencing, I'm not sure that ... that's a pretty big undertaking. That could lead to pretty big things.
PATIENT: Oh yeah, and I really ... I doubt if I would make such an undertaking because I've had better opportunities to do it, prior to even being married, and for one reason or another I took either, like a more secure way, a safer way.
COUNSELOR: Yeah, it's like you really can't see that you would really drastically alter your life because kind of the way your style is to ...
PATIENT: Play it safe.
COUNSELOR: Play it safe and play it where it's secure.
PATIENT: Yeah. With (ph) the odds, kind of. I ... my wife and I went out Saturday night and you remember we talked before about this girl my brother was dating.
COUNSELOR: Yes.
PATIENT: And she came to where my wife and I work, she was at this place and my brother ... she was hunting for my brother in fact, and I knew my brother wasn't going to be there because he had a date and he was somewhere else. And I toyed for a while of taking my wife home and arranging to meet this girl. It was really kind of funny ... well not funny ...
COUNSELOR: The idea somehow really appealed to you to do that.
PATIENT: Yeah. Yeah, it did, and ... I'd really like to know what it is about ... you know, it's not like it's the girl itself, but somehow she personifies something and I'm not sure what it is. She just ... she personifies some kind of spirit or feeling, and it evokes something in me and it's threatening to me. It wasn't as threatening that night as it was before, because at least here, I could deal with the decision, and deal with the reality, the possibility, because I felt that it existed. I felt that if I said to her, "Hey, meet me here at 1:30," she'd say, "Yeah, I'll do that." And so it wasn't as threatening as, for example, when I first met her and had the feeling that could happen, but ...
COUNSELOR: You couldn't see it happening.
PATIENT: Yeah, I couldn't see it. Here, I could, and I ... I don't know, it really kind of bothered me a little bit for a while. [0:09:14.9]
COUNSELOR: You mean the fact that you could really see it as a concrete possibility ...
PATIENT: Yeah.
COUNSELOR: ... made it kind of feel like kind of the real presence of a decision you had to make about it.
PATIENT: Yeah, well it, yeah.
COUNSELOR: And what that decision would mean too, I guess.
PATIENT: See, because by saying like, "Yes, I'll go home with my wife and I'll stay home," then I reaffirm my way of life and my relationship with my wife.
COUNSELOR: It's like a choice point, in a way.
PATIENT: Hmm?
COUNSELOR: It was like that was a choice point, kind of ...
PATIENT: Yeah.
COUNSELOR: ... you reaffirmed your relationship with your wife or you kind of strike out in a new direction.
PATIENT: Yeah, and ...
COUNSELOR: It had that kind of significance in that in some ways is what you're saying.
PATIENT: Yeah, I think it does. I'm not ...
COUNSELOR: You just felt that way, like ...
PATIENT: Well, I can't say my decision was significant, the opportunity was. I would have really been surprised at myself had I gone the other way. But I thought about it. And it's not that often that I feel I'm faced with these kinds of decisions, but ... I don't know, I had some ... just, you know, very binding feelings for a while there that night. And ... I don't know, I'm still kind of asking myself what is it that she seems to signify? [0:10:59.2]
COUNSELOR: Yeah, kind of ... because I didn't really get that ... you said she evoked something in you.
PATIENT: Yeah, and I'm not sure what it is. Kind of a feeling of freedom and you know, inner freedom, of doing what you want to do. But at the same time, I'm not sure what it is I want to do. I know she's not doing what she wants to do, even though she has that sense of freedom. 
COUNSELOR: Yeah, it's like somehow she evokes in you a potential for being or something like, not that you know what it is, but that there could be something that you could be and be doing other than what you are.
PATIENT: Yeah. It's ... you know, she's like ... she kind of personifies real potential for fantasy and at the same time, I have to keep reminding myself that it's just fantasy because for example, I know this girl has a job that she hates. And if she were truly free, she wouldn't have that job, which she abhors, you know. And ... I guess I kind of feel that fantasy is so much more pleasant. [0:12:14.3]
COUNSELOR: Well what does the fantasy [feel like] (ph)?
PATIENT: Well I'm not sure, you know, because there's nothing specific. It's just that ... a fantasy of feeling free and doing primarily everything that you enjoy doing. Like I enjoy my work, so I don't mind working. But not having to feel that you have to go through motions that you're unhappy with or ... 
COUNSELOR: Kind of ...
PATIENT: ... you know, that you don't like. Playing the kind of games that you just don't want to play, but they seem to become more and more important as you grow older because you have more invested in them. And you have more invested in other things too which the games are important. 
COUNSELOR: Kind of like in there, what I hear is that there's this somehow a sense that the fantasy is not concrete but it's kind of a feeling of that I could live a life where I really do the things that are fulfilling to me and it's not going through kind of putting on a show in a way.
PATIENT: Yeah, not going through motions that are really kind of meaningless.
COUNSELOR: And I guess kind of that feeling of potential help could be really kind of somehow ... it's really much pitted against how you feel you're living now.
PATIENT: Yeah, I think it is in a lot of ways. You know, after a while, we even begin to ... you know, the motions become the end. They kind of become the end thing, the end, and then the art is found in the motion and not in the outcome. So it's like when we want to have friends over, well that's one thing, having friends over, being with friends, and ... but then you get into the art of entertaining and the motions that make entertainment and having friends over something significant. And I'd rather just have the friends over. [0:14:23.3]
COUNSELOR: I get the sense that you feel like in much of your life, you are going through motions and just not living.
PATIENT: In a lot of ways. In a lot of ways. Not all ways. But the bad thing is that more and more things I begin to feel are becoming motions without real meaning.
COUNSELOR: You mean you sense that life is becoming empty or not fuller.
PATIENT: Well, if not becoming emptier, at least I'm not adding to it, you know. In some ways I imagine emptier because what I'm ... what emotional feelings I'm depleting I may not be replenishing at the same rate. I'm not really ... I imagine that's true. So I think ... you know, when I think about it, I guess I ... maybe I've begun conserving emotional strength because I find myself withdrawing more and more. And I thought about why, but I never thought about it in that, from that light, because I feel often ...you know, I mentioned it last week, what my wife and I will make a resolve that well, we have to spend more time with each other. And yet we find ourselves going out with people nevertheless or doing something with other people. And I wonder if ... I think maybe that helps serve to conserve real emotional strength and maybe even builds in [on it a more] (ph). [0:16:30.1]
And I mentioned early, maybe in the first or second time we met, that I found myself kind of withdrawing from doing things that I had done before because it took emotion from me, it evoked emotion and then I directed it. And ... I find myself doing less of that and maybe that's why, because I'm not replenishing, so I'm conserving.
COUNSELOR: When you say "conserving," I'm trying to get a sense of what that means, it's like ... you mean you're not having emotions, is that what you mean?
PATIENT: No ...
COUNSELOR: You're not having emotional experiences with others?
PATIENT: No, it's kind of like if ... kind of like withdrawing from experiences that would be emotional to save the emotional strength I have. You know, if I'm in a situation that's emotional that stimulates feelings in me, then I guess I go ahead and feel them, you know, but it's like I avoid situations I would imagine that ...
COUNSELOR: What kind ... what more concretely are you talking about when you say you see yourself avoiding situations that really evoke emotions inside yourself?
PATIENT: Well, I can see myself avoiding ... in some ways, avoiding emotional situations with my wife. Only in some ways, because we've been fighting like hell lately, little short things, and they've been getting shorter oddly enough, instead of longer. Like I'll really explode and it'll last one minute or two, and then we'll talk about it. Whereas before, I would explode for a longer period of time, and of course it was harder then to talk about it because she would be defensive and I'd feel kind of ashamed and guilty, whereas now we've begun talking about it a lot sooner and a lot more effectively too. And I think that both of us have modified our behavior a little bit. I feel like she listens a little bit more and I feel less of a need to really bitch at her, you know, and kind of lecture to her because I feel she's listening. So maybe ... I don't know, maybe things ARE improving in some ways. [0:19:06.3]
COUNSELOR: It doesn't sound like you're quite sure of that.
PATIENT: Well, you know, because when I made the initial statement about withdrawing, I think I was thinking about a period three weeks ago, four weeks ago, which is still, you know, very much in the ... in your past.
COUNSELOR: Yeah, it sounds like what you're ... I guess I must have had a different ... you said once you had started with this that you felt yourself withdrawing with your wife in some situations, withdrawing from emotionally evoking experiences. I'm still not sure what those experiences are. Are you talking about positive emotional experiences?
PATIENT: Yeah, I think I'm talking about those too. But I'm not sure how, now. You know, earlier I said that for example we would ... you know, one of the things that brought us in was the fact that I find myself going to bed without her and she'd come to bed a half hour later or 20 minutes later or an hour later. And I was doing the same thing. She'd go to bed and I'd follow. And I think I ... in fact both of us, we're both avoiding things that could be and should be positive emotional experiences, but they were turning into negative experiences for us. [0:20:34.2]
COUNSELOR: Making love.
PATIENT: Yeah. Which should be a positive thing but wasn't because we weren't doing it. So it became a negative thing. And ... I think a lot of that in a sense has changed, in just like within the last week, we have spent more time together when we could, because I've been out a lot, going to meetings and things. But when we were together, we were much more together than we usually are together. You know, it was more than just a physical presence together.
COUNSELOR: You mean there was some kind of feeling of closeness that you felt.
PATIENT: Yeah, I think there was. It was a feeling too, it wasn't just talk (ph).
COUNSELOR: You mean somehow you sensed in some way enjoying being with her.
PATIENT: Yeah, I felt more of an alliance with my wife and you know, more like we were ... I don't really remember when it happened now, but I know we were out together and I don't know where in the hell we were, but I just felt you know like we were part of each other and this kind of a feeling I haven't had for a long time. And it was a good feeling.
COUNSELOR: Yeah, it sounds like it was kind of a feeling of warmth towards her, and it was good to feel that.
PATIENT: Mmm hmm. I can't remember when it was, but I know I just ... I felt it and it was different. It was a very positive kind of feeling. [0:22:23.6]
And I've seen a lot of positive changes in her behavior in the last week. She's become very energetic and doing all kinds of jobs that she's put off for months and months. And this week she's getting them all done, doing everything. 
COUNSELOR: You look kind of disturbed.
PATIENT: Hmm?
COUNSELOR: You look kind of disturbed. 
PATIENT: I'm just trying to think of where to go from here because I ... a few minutes ago, I had kind of a ... you know, a sense of where I was going to go, and I've lost it now. 
COUNSELOR: I kind of sense that it's important for you to know where [you're going to go] (ph).
PATIENT: Oh yeah. Yeah.
COUNSELOR: It's like uncertainty is uncomfortable? 
PATIENT: Yeah. Yeah, I get anxious.
COUNSELOR: You get anxious in here when you don't know where you're going?
PATIENT: Mmm hmm. (long silence)
I think ... that by ... well in talking about how I withdraw because ... what came to me while I was thinking, I was thinking about my ... how I withdraw from my mother. And especially did, you know, I was living at home and prior to getting married because I was, I suppose, more of a felt member of the household and felt a member of the household, whether I was living at home or not. And ... I found myself withdrawing more and more from the problems in the household, from getting involved in them, from even wanting to know about them. So I wouldn't have to deal with them emotionally, because that was the ONLY way I could deal with them. [0:26:29.3]
COUNSELOR: Kind of trying to be somehow unaffected by them.
PATIENT: Well, yeah.
COUNSELOR: Detach yourself.
PATIENT: Yeah, because I would feel the problems, but I was ... I didn't have any way of really dealing with them tangibly to change them, and so all I could do was react to them, yeah. Yeah, all I could ever do was react to them, and I never really found a way to deal with them in a positive way, to change things, to manipulate them. And I thought of it because I realized that like last night, I talked to my mother on the phone for the first time in several weeks and ... which is odd because I live eight miles from her, but ... I don't want to know what's going on because if I don't know what's going on, then I don't get upset about everything.
COUNSELOR: You don't have to be brought down by it.
PATIENT: Hmm?
COUNSELOR: You don't have to be brought down by it.
PATIENT: Yeah. And so I guess when I talk about withdrawing from my wife, that's the kind of thing. I don't ask her how she's feeling, except in kind of a small talk sort of way, because I don't really want to know.
COUNSELOR: You don't want her to really tell you.
PATIENT: Yeah.
COUNSELOR: I kind of sense you're saying this with ... like ... where you really try to detach yourself from things that can upset you and bring you down and involve (ph) you.
PATIENT: Yeah, if I don't know how to deal with them. I would imagine that's why, you know ...
COUNSELOR: You want to know that before hand, I imagine too.
PATIENT: Yeah. See, you know, like when you said, you know, "Does it disturb you when you don't know what's going to go on, where you're going to go next?" Yeah, it does. And I think that's why, because ... you know, I feel impotent when I can't deal with problems, and I'm just left to deal with my own emotions with no constructive kind of outlet. [0:28:41.9]
COUNSELOR: It's like when there's really kind of ... you don't know a strategy or feel on shaky ground, it's like you don't want to just be left with your feelings and don't want to be left especially with those negative feelings that are going to be evoked either by ... if your wife really told you how she was feeling, and it really, say it really was down ...
PATIENT: Yeah, I don't know what I'd do.
COUNSELOR: Do you feel kind of scared with that?
PATIENT: Yeah. Right before we came in here, she told me ... we were talking. I called in here like on a Monday and we had a long talk on a Sunday and she said that she had been thinking about committing suicide. And that really hit me, because I didn't realize that she was so depressed and so unhappy because she had never communicated that to me in a way that I perceived it. And at the same time, I'm sure that I really didn't WANT to know that she was that depressed either, because I didn't ... I don't think I would have known how to deal with it, and I also don't think I would have WANTED to because I was angry and hostile. [0:30:08.9]
COUNSELOR: And also because I guess in part ... are you saying like she says that she IS that depressed and she's thinking about suicide, what kind of ... "That upsets me, but I don't know what to do with that and I'd rather not know about it. I'd rather turn my back on it and run away from it, not know it. I'd rather be uninvolved."
PATIENT: Well ... you mean that's how I felt when she told me that?
COUNSELOR: Well I was ... I guess I was talking about it not just specifically but more as a style. 
PATIENT: In a way, yes. That's ... I think that's the thing that really pushed me to say, "Well we'd better do something now." But that's why we came here rather than my saying, "Well, we'll work it out," because I knew that wasn't really realistic anymore. And I felt that I couldn't do anything. Or at least not do what needed to be done. And so that's why I suggested we go somewhere else, but at the same time, yeah, I withdrew, just like we don't talk about anything that we talk about here for the most part.
COUNSELOR: Why not? 
PATIENT: Because I don't want to know what SHE talks about. I guess I ... for several reasons. I don't want to deal with the feelings. I'd like her to work them out and maybe after she worked them out, then maybe I could deal with them too in a different way. That's kind of vague. I guess I feel that after she sorts them through, and kind of knows how to deal with them herself, she won't lay them on me. I think that's what I'm afraid of, that she'll just take all of them and all of her feelings and her problems and lay them in my lap. [0:32:42.3]
COUNSELOR: Okay, let's think about that. What if she did that? How would that make you feel? Why are you afraid of that?
PATIENT: I'm afraid of that because that's what my mother did, and she laid them on my lap from the time I was about seven, on. And of course there's a difference between ... or there should be a difference between my ability to cope with them now and the abilities I had then.
COUNSELOR: Yeah. What I was asking you was not about your abilities. I was asking how would it feel if she were to lay those feelings on your lap?
PATIENT: Well I think I would have the same feelings I had then when my mother did it. And it's really a feeling of, well, of really being afraid because the feelings are very strong and they're very frightening. 
COUNSELOR: Her feelings or your feelings?
PATIENT: Well, the feelings that her feelings ... I ... would evoke in me.
COUNSELOR: Yeah, that's what I thought you were saying, it's like, "I'm really scared of what it means to have those scary kind of feelings evoked in me, to have those uncertain feelings, scary feelings, not-knowing-what-to-do feelings, helpless feelings." 
PATIENT: Mmm hmm.
COUNSELOR: Like to have those kind of feelings inside of you really frightens you. Kind of, it's like to be thrown to a way of acting which you don't know how to be. and you're kind of left without some kind of framework or structure to put things in. [0:34:33.2]
PATIENT: Yeah.
COUNSELOR: That disturbs you. It hits a disturbing chord.
PATIENT: Yeah, I think that's true. I feel like I've developed a structure to deal with them, but you know, as I've said before, that's not entirely satisfactory. 
COUNSELOR: It sounds like the structure is NOT dealing with this.
PATIENT: Yeah, I think in a way it is. I classify the feelings and I relate them to whatever the stimulus is for those feelings, and that's how I deal with them. That's it.
COUNSELOR: Do you feel like you do that in here too?
PATIENT: In here too?
COUNSELOR: Yeah.
PATIENT: Yeah, (chuckling) I probably do, when I think about it.
COUNSELOR: Because I really feel you do too. How does that hit you?
PATIENT: Hmm?
COUNSELOR: How does that hit you?
PATIENT: I think I'd like you to point it out when I do it, because I feel like ... it would help me deal with the feelings in a different way. And that's kind of frightening (chuckling), really. [0:36:19.6]
COUNSELOR: And that's one thing I'm really hearing you saying. It's like abstractly, something as an ideal, like "This ideal of freedom in a way, something I like, which is like freedom and without me (ph) it's pretty scary to think of myself of having those feelings and what that would be like."
PATIENT: Mmm hmm. Yeah. When you said that, that must have made me feel kind of angry, because I was sitting here and I started to say to you, "Okay, what in the hell was I talking about before you said that?" And ...
COUNSELOR: Before I said that thing about I think ...
PATIENT: Yeah, because it was ... my immediate thought was to go back to what I've been saying because I lost the train of thought. But my choice of words made me wonder why I ... well my choice of words made me question why that choice of words because that sounds kind of angry. And I imagine that's true. [0:38:43.2]
COUNSELOR: That that made you angry?
PATIENT: Yeah. Because even when I said, "Do you ... I'd like you to point that out to me," I don't think I really meant that (chuckling), really. I felt it inside.
COUNSELOR: You felt the anger inside, you mean?
PATIENT: No, I felt like ... well, I said it, but I hope he doesn't really do it, you know.
COUNSELOR: Why not?
PATIENT: Well, I guess because it's easier for me to deal with the feelings the way I deal with them than it is not to.
COUNSELOR: I really sense ... okay, I might point it out. 
PATIENT: (chuckling) [No, I'm kidding.] (ph)
COUNSELOR: I really sense that right just then, in a way, it's like ... I kind of sense somehow like I was ... when you were talking about ... I don't know if I can get it all back, that whole sequence of what you said when I started asking these questions of this and I asked myself why I was asking the words, it's like somehow that all had to do with anger. It had to do with 50 different questions and thoughts about it and not just saying, "You know, I feel angry."
PATIENT: Yeah.
COUNSELOR: I'm trying to experience what that ... EXPERIENCE the anger. [0:40:06.1]
Having pointed that out, how does that strike you? What are you feeling?
PATIENT: Well, what I thought of when you said that was that I don't know if ... and I guess I feel ambivalent because I know when I think about it, that I sound ... I shouldn't even say "ambivalent." Like one week, I'll talk about one thing and the next week I'll contradict that. And it's not so much that I feel, that there's an ABSENCE of feeling in some ways, you know, because like you said, "Well, why don't you just feel the anger?" Well, I guess the thing that puzzles me and disturbs me is that often I'm feeling anger or this and that, which I feel is I'm justifying. I think that's the question in my mind that I have a lot of feelings for which I don't feel I have a stimulus. That it's either not reasonable or it's not ... you know what I mean?
COUNSELOR: Yeah. Very much so.
PATIENT: That's what I'm kind of hemming (ph) for.
COUNSELOR: Is what's you're saying something like "Sometimes I have them, but I don't really feel I should have them."
PATIENT: Well under certain circumstances, inappropriate, you know. 
COUNSELOR: Yeah, "Maybe I should cut them off and not have them. Or ask questions of them."
PATIENT: Yeah, well, yeah, it's like ...
COUNSELOR: Just have them ... know why.
PATIENT: For example, I feel that part of the problems I have with my wife are due to my ... somehow emotionally demanding certain things of her that may not be ... that maybe shouldn't be there in a relationship between she and I as two married people. I feel like I'm asking her to meet the unmet needs that my mother didn't meet in me, you know, which I didn't even really realize until a couple weeks ago because I was looking at things too specifically and not overall. But I guess maybe that's one reason I came in, was to figure out, well, sometimes when I have these feelings, they just seem inappropriate for the given situation. And ... but I do have the feelings and somehow then ... well obviously they're acting and they do make me do certain things and feel certain things. And as a result, when the feeling comes at an inappropriate time, then it kind of screws things up, you know what I mean? It messes up the ... whatever that situation is. [0:43:16.5]
Like at a time when, for example, at a time when my wife will say, "Oh, come over here on the couch and sit by me," I'll get angry.
COUNSELOR: Why?
PATIENT: I don't know. I really don't know. That's the thing, see, it's kind of like ...
COUNSELOR: I asked the wrong question, I'm sorry.
PATIENT: No, you didn't, but ...
COUNSELOR: Well I would sense I guess right there was somehow you didn't want to.
PATIENT: Oh, yeah, but it happens over and over and over. And when I finally ... when I DO go over and sit there, it's simply because I say to myself, "Well ...
COUNSELOR: It's duty?
PATIENT: Yeah, "You've put her off long enough. Now you'd better go sit with her." And I'll sit there five minutes and then get up and go do whatever it is I was doing.
COUNSELOR: Right there, you're wondering about like the absence of kind of positive perhaps emotional experiences. It kind of sounds like in some way your wife is asking for that when she asks that. [0:44:16.1]
PATIENT: You mean asking for positive or the negative?
COUNSELOR: She's asking for kind of closeness when she asks you that, kind of.
PATIENT: Right. Right.
COUNSELOR: And it sounds like you don't want it. Or you don't want it with her.
PATIENT: Yeah. Yeah, I want it, consciously, you know, I'm begging for it. But yet when it's there, I can't tolerate it, you know. Well you don't, but ...
COUNSELOR: I kind of get the sense of that.
PATIENT: Because sometimes I guess I feel smothered, really smothered. And maybe that's ... maybe that's what, you know, when you talked about, "How would you feel when she puts ... lays all those feelings in your lap?" I feel smothered. That's the feeling.
COUNSELOR: Like you'd be drowned in that.
PATIENT: Yeah, because there's just so damn many and I can't handle them. And it makes me angry. And it makes me angry because that much is demanded of me.
COUNSELOR: Yeah, I really ... I really ...
PATIENT: ...because I feel it's an unreasonable expectation.
COUNSELOR: Yeah, I really do hear you saying that. I guess you've said this other days too, it's like with respect to marriage in general and getting married, it's like ... you know, a lot of it is "I just don't want demands to be made on me. I feel my kind of myself and what I might do and want is somehow being confined and imprisoned, could be smothered. It's like, I don't want demands to made on me. Marriage is making a demand on me when my wife asks me [it's the next choice] (ph) making a demand on me."
PATIENT: Yeah.
COUNSELOR: "I really resent that and I get angry with that." [0:46:09.1]
PATIENT: Mmm hmm. Okay now ... now we're at ... like where I want to be at. I can think of reasons why I feel that way, and we've talked about them really, you know, the feeling like "I'm not getting out of marriage what I want, so I'm not going to give you what you want." Or I can't ... it's not even that, I CAN'T give you what you want. I'd like to."
COUNSELOR: Yeah, I really sense you're saying the feeling there is like, "I just can't do it. I just ...that's ... I can't do that with you, I mean it's an ideal, but I just don't want to do it with you. And don't ask me to."
PATIENT: Mmm hmm. But I feel guilty about that too.
COUNSELOR: You feel like somehow you SHOULD be doing that, but just see yourself NOT doing that.
PATIENT: Well I see myself as doing it, like I SHOULD do it, and I WANT to do it, I really do, because I want ... you know, I want ... that's the kind of role I want to play in the marriage where I GIVE emotionally. But for some reason, I can't and ... I'm not sure why, because the reasons I can think of, well ...
COUNSELOR: What I kind of sense is like you're asking why, you have some reasons, but so what? What do they do for you? 
PATIENT: Well I feel like the reasons just don't justify the response. I mean, they're not enough ... I don't think, to account for it. [0:48:02.2] 
 
COUNSELOR: Somehow you think you know the reasons then you can account for it and it would be different?
 
PATIENT: Yeah, I suppose. I suppose. And that seems unreasonable (chuckling), you know. 
COUNSELOR: I sense you're feeling [a little] (ph) confused now?
PATIENT: Yeah. 
COUNSELOR: Can you say more about that?
PATIENT: Hmm?
COUNSELOR: Can you say more about that?
PATIENT: Well I guess when you know when you said, "Well if you knew the reasons, then you could kind of control it." And I said, "Yeah," and I thought, "But you know, I don't really feel like I could." And I guess I feel kind of like powerless again.
COUNSELOR: Yeah. Yeah, it's kind of like when you really kind of thought about the fact that [you could really] (ph) understand it, what then? It just might not be any different and it was again, a real sense of helplessness.
PATIENT: Yeah, because see I started to say to you, "Yeah, if I knew the reasons, then I could work it out." But then I questioned that, and I thought, "Well, I don't know if I really could or not." I don't.
COUNSELOR: It's like "Maybe that just is the way I am. It's not the way I want to be, but ... like I don't want those kinds of demands to be made on me." 
[Silence 0:50:11.50 to 0:52:04.3]
PATIENT: You know I suppose I don't. 
COUNSELOR: I sense somehow that it feels strongly disturbing (inaudible).
PATIENT: Yeah. The way I felt when I said that was like I'm ashamed to look up because I don't feel like ... I don't feel worthy because I'm unwilling to accept these kind of burdens.
COUNSELOR: Yeah, it's kind of like that means I'm a pretty shitty person. 
PATIENT: Yeah, it's not consistent with my self-concept. 
COUNSELOR: And you kind of feel like if you say you don't want those demands made on you, it's ... you're just not like the person you'd really likely to think of yourself as.
PATIENT: Yeah. 
COUNSELOR: I guess it makes you kind of think that you're not a very good person. 
PATIENT: Yeah, I think that's true. 
[Silence between 0:53:22.5 and 0:56:16.3]
Where do I go from here? 
COUNSELOR: What do you feel?
PATIENT: Hmm?
COUNSELOR: What do you feel?
PATIENT: Oh, I don't know, I feel several things. I feel kind of, you know, like ... kind of empty. 
COUNSELOR: Kind of (inaudible) having said that thing that maybe this is the person I am, one that doesn't want demands made (inaudible) 
PATIENT: Well yeah, like this is the person I am but not the kind of person I want to be.
COUNSELOR: Yeah, but I guess I sense that part of that emptiness is a kind of down feeling. It's not just emptiness vacuum because I really, I guess you were sitting there, just sensed kind of sadness in all of that, just from your face. Disturbing (inaudible)
PATIENT: Well it's kind of a feeling of being lonely in the sense that to not be lonely, then you give and you receive, but kind of like if I don't give, I shouldn't expect to receive.
COUNSELOR: And like you see yourself as not giving and the effect of that is kind of you can see yourself as not receiving and being pretty lonely the rest of your life. [0:58:09.6]
PATIENT: Either that, or receiving a feeling that I'm somehow cheating somebody by taking what I ... not paying for and giving back.
COUNSELOR: In the case you kind of see yourself as not being ... if not lonely, sort of (inaudible)
END TRANSCRIPT
