Transcript of Audio File:
______________________________________________________________________________
BEGIN TRANSCRIPT:
THERAPIST: How are you?
CLIENT: Good, thank you. I slept horribly last night and I thought [inaudible] going to pick me up, but it didn't. Chris was, has got this big paper back that of course he was incredibly worried about, this paper you have write the final year to get through law school and he was, I don't know, it was like this 30 page paper and he kept putting it off and putting it off because he didn't like his topic and then he finally, he did it and he was so down on himself, "It was terrible, that he's going to have to do so many revisions," but he had to get it in at a certain time and the guy's notoriously like, it's just like a 100,000 negative things.
[1:02] And it's like, I know, because everything's always fine. Like he has a 4.0 and it's always fine (laughs). And so, you know, I try to be as supportive as a I can and I believe him when he says, like this guy, well he says like, "there's no way I'm going to fail it, but like I'm definitely going to have to do like so many revisions." And then I always feel like such an idiot, like a fool, like a, because it's always fine. It's always better than fine. He's like, "I did terrible on my exam, like all my exams and now I'm first in my class for the whole second year." And it's like I feel so cheated. Like I went through this whole like terror with you and like the only person who really can tell is him because he, and then I get really (sighs), I don't know why it bothers me so much, but it just...
[2:00] He, he got the paper back yesterday and it was fine. There was no revisions needed and he passed and, and he was celebrating. He was really happy about that and I was really happy for him. And part of his like, why are you making it, like (laughs)...I know he's, he was worried, that he was worried and I understand that I talk about a lot about things (pause) that don't need to be talked about all the time, but like, anyways. So he comes and he's like, he goes for a run, and he's like, "I'm going to have a couple of beers. I'm going to celebrate." I was like great, good for you, go for it. The smell of stale beer on Chris just smells like my dad to me. Like, it's just the smell that I associate with my dad. If he's drinking Coors Light like my dad like (laughs), I know, I know that's like a little bit like ridiculous, but like I hate, I hate that smell. I hate it.
[3:00] And I've told like, you know, and I'm not drinking right now because of this [inaudible] in my stomach. And so, well we're like hanging out and he's having some beers to like relax and celebrate and whatever and I like go to kiss him goodnight, but I just kiss him on the cheek, and he's like, "What, no kiss on the lips?" And I'm like, no, you smell like my dad growing up and that smell repulses me. And sitting next to you for the last two hours has repulsed me, but I sit here and I don't say anything about it because what am I, like what's he going to do, you know like not enjoy himself because of something with me? Because of an issue that like I have or whatever? Anyway, so like I go to sleep and we have a tiny apartment and our bedroom has just a glass door because our living room is in the middle of the apartment with no windows so our bedroom has all these windows and then our bedroom door is just glass with glass all around it.
[4:06] So if the TV or any light's on it's like there's a light on in your room. And I cannot sleep with lights on in my room (laughs). So I just didn't sleep. And even after that, even after the TV was turned off and he was sleeping he was in bed smelling like stale beer (pause) and it, it grosses me out so much that I want to leave. Like, I want to sleep on the couch because I just feel like I'm sleeping next to my dad 20 years ago. Like, it makes my skin crawl. Like, it makes me sick. And (pause), I don't know. It grossed me, it grossed me out and I just couldn't sleep.
[4:57] You know, I had to wake up at 5:30 for this class I went to take this morning anyway and that always makes me not sleep very well, but I just like think I'm over tired (laughs). Anyway, I don't know why I get so worked up over the beer thing. It grosses me out. It's fine if I'm like having a beer or two with him, I don't really tend to notice it. But if I'm just sitting there and not having a drink, it's like, ugh, all I can smell. And all I can think about is like, oh my god, when I get pregnant and you're drinking and I'm not, am I going to feel that way every time because...? That's going to make me crazy. But like, what do I say? Like, I mean I said to him, oh you smell like my dad I don't want to kiss you on the lips right now. Like, your mouth smells, your whole body smells, but like your mouth really, it's something about, I can't do it. [5:54]
THERAPIST: How many beers does he drink? Usually one beer you can't really smell it, I would think. Maybe you can.
CLIENT: I don't know, like three or four. It'd be like four for the evening. (pause) (sighs) And it just grossed me out. I can't smell it after one. I mean like, maybe I'm hypersensitive, maybe I'm just projecting, maybe I just, but like as soon as the beer opens and he starts drinking I can smell it.
THERAPIST: Is it Coors Light in particular?
CLIENT: Yeah. (pause) It's all my dad drank. It's just an association. I know it's just like, just like the whole thing of it (pause), but it just makes me sick. Because it was the smell that I would smell as soon as I walked into the kitchen or as soon as like you opened the door to my parent's bedroom or like anything. That would just waft over you and it, like at such a young age, made me disgusted. (pause) (gagging sound) I hate it. I don't know what to say to him.
[6:55] I mean like, what, please don't drink Coors Light honey (laughs)? Or please don't drink when I'm not drinking. Like, that's a little unfair. (pause)
THERAPIST: Does he really love Coors Light?
CLIENT: No, a friend brought it over. It was at our house. But it seemed a little ridiculous to ask him to go buy different beer just because that whole thing.
THERAPIST: Why?
CLIENT: Because, like, anytime we spend money on anything it's like a thing and he would think, he would think it was absolutely ridiculous to spend money on beer when we already have beer at the house. (pause)
[7:56] Part of it feels like I just need to get over it, like grow up. Like, you need to get over that. (pause)
THERAPIST: Well, it sounds like you have a post-traumatic stress reaction to it.
CLIENT: Yeah, I don't know, maybe.
THERAPIST: What does growing up have to do with it?
CLIENT: Just like leaving it in the past and letting it go and moving on from it.
THERAPIST: And you do that by telling yourself to grow up?
CLIENT: (laughs) No, obviously not. But, if I talk to myself, when I talk to myself in my head it sounds (pause). And then he, then I'm just pissed at him, not pissed, but like I'm just short with him.
[8:59] He, you know, but I don't say anything. I just like don't really attempt to make conversation. I'll talk if he asks, but I'm just kind of shut off, shutdown. And I just want to go over to my bed and read. (pause) But, I feel like such a weirdo. (long pause) (sighs) It's that damn TV light, keeps me up.
[9:55] Anyway, (long pause) I just really like, I feel gullible. I feel like I just believe everything he says about everything. (laughs) I should, but like, you know, I'm just starting to think like, he's so full of it. Just like, you know if you did fine, you know if you did ok at least. Like, I feel like he has to know a little bit. Maybe he doesn't, maybe he really thinks that. But like, for three years I've been arguing this with him where every time something, something happens at school whether it be an exam or a paper of something, it's like he just stresses about it for so long and agonizes and I get sucked into with him to the point where like I think like, oh my god, he failed that semester, like, oh my god I can't believe he, not like really failed the semester.
[11:07] But he acts like he'll be so pissed if his like ranking goes down, this and that. And it's always totally fine.
THERAPIST: You feel drawn in every time.
CLIENT: Yeah. Even, I initially always say to myself, like he's overreacting, like it's, he does this, it's fine. But then the more it goes on and the more he talks about like, " Well," when he like starts talking about the different scenarios, he's always like, "Well, I guess finals [inaudible] I can just revise it." Who has [inaudible] the paper. Like, you know, like, "even if I do, even if I get this on my exams, the furthest, the lowest my GPA can get is this," like even, like he runs through. Like as soon as he starts going to these places, I'm like, wow he's taking it that seriously?
[12:03] But it's just his OCD and he just needs recognize that and I can't sometimes when he gets far off into it. (long pause) And then it makes me feel frustrated because I feel like I should be the person that's like grounding him, and that's like bringing him back to kind of reality and is like, saying things that should help calm him down, to help show him by, I don't know what to say and (pause), the only thing I can say is, it's going to be fine even if like your worst case scenario happens, even in that situation it's, it's going to fine.
[13:04] Like, I'm here for you, like I'm still proud of you. And that's like all I have to offer and at a certain point like that doesn't, just doesn't matter to him anymore. And I don't know what else to say.
THERAPIST: How do you mean it doesn't matter to him?
CLIENT: Because the only thing that matters to him in those moments is like, is the issue at hand. It's like he doesn't, like breaking him out of it doesn't really work. When you try to say like, you know, like bigger picture stuff, like stepping back and seeing bigger picture stuff doesn't really like work. (pause) [13:54]
THERAPIST: Well it sounds like you're really dependent on his moods.
CLIENT: Yeah. I think that both of us are kind of dependent on each other's moods. We're both, if the other one is like in a bad mood it's, we're really affected by it. It's something I really don't like about our relationship. That if, if I'm the least bit moody it's a problem. And so I, he says to me like, "Well, what's your problem?" It's like I'm just in a bad mood, like sometimes people are just in a bad mood and I (pause), I you know, I don't know. We're both really affected by each other's moods. For him, I just like I get frustrated because I'll just be like, suck it up, like shut up. You're always whining about something with school, always. And like I just can't take it anymore because you have a 4.0 in law school and that's like, just relax a little bit.
[15:04] Like, you know everything's going to be fine. And so I just get frustrated with his, his OCD side of it and he is always, if like, if I'm in a bad mood at all he always thinks it's something he did or that I'm [inaudible] with him somehow or someway. It's like, it's not about you, just you know, leave me be. Sometimes I just want to be left alone. (pause) Maybe that's why I'm sounding so grouchy right now; I'm sounding really grouchy. (long pause) I just feel sometimes that I can't be in a bad or it's you know, like he takes it so personally if I'm in a bad mood.
[16:03] Most of the time it has nothing to do with him. And I hate, I just hate that, the I, but I guess I do too because I feel responsible to try to like make him feel better when he's in a bad mood. So, I don't know, in that way we're just really not a good match. (pause) I don't...(long pause) I, I think sometimes that like I just chose another person that I felt like I could take care of (pause) just because it's what I like to do. [16:59]
THERAPIST: And you also feel really burdened by him at times.
CLIENT: Yeah. (long pause) I just get frustrated with the things at him that I'm frustrated with myself. Just I wish I could just be a little stronger and be a little more assured and confident. Because those are the things I struggle with. And so when I see that in him it really frustrates me. Because it's something I'm looking for. It's something that I think (pause)...It frustrates me too because I think that he has so much to be confident about.
[17:58] And he's been really successful in these ways that would make me feel really, that I, the things that I think that he should feel, that should make him feel good about himself are kind of areas that make me really feel insecure, you know meaning school or things like that. And so sometimes I feel, I just want to shake him and say, can't you see like how great this is? And why aren't you enjoying it? And then I get even more frustrated because (pause), like I said before, the only time, the only reason anyone like gives me any credit lately or takes me seriously is because I'm married to a guy that's top of his class in law school and that's like the only thing I get credit for.
[19:01] But, he's not even like (laughs), you know, he's not even benefitting (ph) (laughs), like he's not even [inaudible] that. (long pause) I don't want him to be a cocky asshole. I really obviously do not want that, but I would like him to, to, he has, he just doesn't, part of the thing that I love about Chris is that he doesn't really realize how smart he is. And so he doesn't come off as, like he's really easy to talk to, he's really easy to have a conversation with, but he just has all this knowledge, he just knows about all this random stuff and how the hell did you know that?
[20:02] And I love that about him. He'll just come out with it and it doesn't, there's no air of like, like, oh well (arrogant sound). You know, there's, he's just saying it conversationally and he doesn't realize that other people wouldn't know that. And I love that about him. But I, it's like, I wish he could just gain a little bit of confidence from it. (pause) (sighs) Because it's [inaudible whisper]. (long pause) I've been thinking a lot about just like what we were talking about last session with, with Chris and about, I don't really remember exactly what it was, but how I just kind of like, just kind of like what I was think about today.
[21:03] Like, I just kind of default to kind of whatever he says. I just kind of, you know, like, like kind of follow him, like but he starts to panic about moving, like all this stuff and he gets like kind of intense about it. I kind of just follow him blindly without really questioning a whole lot. And I was thinking, where the hell does that come from? I was realizing that, you know, it's definitely an example that was set for me. In the, you know, in my mom's relationship with my dad and my mom's relationship with my stepdad, she just always, I just remember being like, oh really? Like anything that anybody said, my dad or my stepdad, she just doesn't question it. But she questions, I think she does in her head, but I didn't know that until years later. [21:54]
THERAPIST: And she questions it in her head.
CLIENT: Yeah, and that, because I would just hear going like, "oh," and then listening and paying attention. I would hear them say things and like, that's totally wrong. Or like, what idiots; they sound stupid right now. And I'm obviously not going to say that out loud either, but sometimes I'll say that to my dad. But, I like always though, it was just you know, how my mom's relationships worked with her husbands was that she just kind of nodded along and like, "yes, um-hmm," and went along with it. In her relationship with my stepdad who's like, you know, a nice enough guy for the most part, they've been married for almost ten years now and he goes on this man trip every year with his guy friends. This huge extravagant, it's in [inaudible], but I didn't, she didn't tell him that it bothered her until last year because he spends thousands of dollars on this trip and she's never been on vacation since they've been married.
[22:56] And he goes on, he's going on two this year, but he goes on one every year and spends thousands of dollars with these guys and she stays home with my brother. But she just told him this year that it bothers her. And she just, I was realizing like, it always bothered me that their relationship that she would never say anything to him about like just like these things that I feel like you should say in marriage. And I felt like, for the most part, I don't do that, I don't think that I, that I was realizing that I do kind of just get sucked into these ideas that Chris has that he just comes out with. That he just like, "oh my car," and horrible financial decisions.
[23:52] I do just kind of trust in whatever he says and I realized that my mom does that and I think, for the most part, it's just out of, you know she just wants things to easy and so that's why she did it most of the time because she just doesn't like, it's like it's easier to just say like, oh ok, and move on with it. But, I don't, like I don't necessarily need that or want that because I don't wholeheartedly, at least I don't want to just wholeheartedly believe or go with whatever Chris says not matter what because a lot of times I think he's totally overreacting and being just a little too intense. (pause) And it's just a model that I don't really want to follow. (pause) Even though I witnessed in my mom's relationship with my dad and my stepdad, [apparently] (ph) piece that together with my relationship [inaudible] whether that was [inaudible at 24:56] or not.
I don't know I was just kind of noticing kind of maybe that, a little similarity. But, I don't know, I still, I still have never had a model for like, because of that I've never had a model for like communication that isn't in total agreement, that isn't explosive yelling matches. Because even when my mom and my stepdad have a disagreement it's a fight, like when my mom voices a disagreement there's an argument. And I don't know how to, I just don't know how to say like, "well I don't necessarily entirely agree with that," in a way that isn't combative and isn't (pause), I don't know.
[26:09] I just don't, I don't know how to do it. And I'm not confident either so it's a double, it makes it really complicated.
THERAPIST: It almost seems like by disagreeing you feel like it's an act of aggression.
CLIENT: Yeah, I really do and I act like that. Going into that I anticipate that there will be an argument. I anticipate that if there's more than one side to it that there's going to be a fight. And, and I'm trying to get to a place where it's like, ok well maybe can we look at this from like, because it's something I only think to myself that we've talked about, looking at things from a few different angles. It's something I recognize [we're short on] (ph), it's something I'd like to try to implement I guess in my relationship in ways of looking at certain scenarios especially with this move.
[27:04] There are so many things we have to talk about that need to be approached from different ways of looking at it. And this move is going to be really, this move is going to way harder than our last move (laughs). Our last move was like nothing.
THERAPIST: You think because you're going to be, now you're going to be working for your parents. You're going to be living with them. Is that what you're referring to?
CLIENT: That's it, but I mean like, before we were coming in, we were just, I don't know, how old were we? We were 23. We were still like so unaware of so many, like we had no plan when we moved here. I mean, we had nothing, like I probably had $1,000, no job lined up, he had no job lined up. We just packed up some boxes and moved here. We lived in his sister's basement for a month, buy an apartment. We had no plan.
[27:56] And this time we're like, you know, Chris wants to have X amount in savings and we need to get the apartment, we need to get a car, I need to line up a job. We're just like, we need to think about furniture, we're moving out our furniture up to Massachusetts, storing it. Like all these different moving parts that we didn't have to think about last time we were moving. And the part with my parents is just a whole additional stress. (long pause) My brother John, a few weeks ago, I guess two weeks ago, had like an outburst at my mom and my stepdad's. And it made me kind of jealous. He had been at my aunt's house tutoring my cousin and he had a couple of glasses of wine and his girlfriend doesn't like when he's had anything to drink so he went to my mom's house to spend the night.
[29:01] And then they were all sitting down having wine and I guess my stepdad said something about me and my brother being total brats when he first moved in because that's something he likes to say a lot. Mind you that he moved in less than a month after meeting our mom and less than six months after our dad moved out. So, we probably, I mean we were just so fragile. We were all sleeping in my mom's bed, like there was no room for any guy. We did not, my mom had seen other guys, but nobody wanted that situation. And (pause) so my brother just lost it after Caleb called us all a bunch of brats and, ok I'm having a little anxiety now. [29:57] (long pause) (deep breaths)
THERAPIST: Can you just say what you're feeling anxious about?
CLIENT: I don't know (crying). I think just (long pause) (crying), it's something I've wanted to talk to my mom about for kind of a while that, I mean that situation was just handled so badly and my brother said it. He said it all. I guess there was like a big screaming match and he said like, you know, like, "You're calling us fucking brats and, how were we brats? We'd just like gotten rid of this one guy and here's this other guy. We're thinking like thank God we got rid of the last one and now this next one is in here, like this. Like, what are you doing here?"
[31:05] And my stepdad said to him, "You should have come to me man to man and explained that you didn't feel comfortable having me around." It's like, my brother's a 13 year old kid at that point and he had gotten on the phone when Caleb had called my mom at our house and said to him, "Don't you ever call my house again, you like," you know, he like yelled at him. It's like how much more would you want from a 13 year old kid? Like, that's him coming to you man to man. A 13 year old kid isn't coming to you man to man, that's his signal that he doesn't want you around, but you moved in two weeks later, brought your kid and my brother moved out two months later to live with my dad do a bunch of drugs and sell drugs.
THERAPIST: Your brother moved in with your dad?
CLIENT: After two months of Caleb moving in with us.
THERAPIST: He really didn't want to be there. [32:00]
CLIENT: (crying) And we were both just so depressed and he was suicidal, I was suicidal and we were both just a mess. And neither of us wanted any of it. (crying) (long pause) And after he moved out he and I just didn't have a relationship anymore. He felt like I chose my mom and I felt like he chose my dad, which we were already kind of sides like that anyway. But, (long pause) It just made me really jealous that he got to say all those things that he was feeling at that time and that, that I still haven't. (stopped crying)
[33:01] He kept saying like, "Don't worry, I didn't say anything about you. I didn't like say your name. I didn't say..." It felt like I wish you would have. I wish you would have said I hated it too and that, and you know, he said to me, because he called me the next morning, he said, "Well don't bring it up to mom. If she brings it up to you that's fine, but don't bring it up to her." And I was hoping that she wouldn't bring it up to me and I was kind of hoping she would too. (long pause) I'm just so pissed about it. I just feel like we didn't get a chance to breathe. (long pause)
[33:57] And then they, I mean, they got marred within a year and then they started trying to have a baby right away and it was just like boom, boom, boom, boom. (pause) And we were just, you know, portrayed as these just total shithead kids. I mean we were. We were being shitty kids, but I think it was, I mean it was, it was just an obvious reaction. How are you not seeing that these kids are screaming for someone to pay attention to them and that this is a terrible situation that they're pissed about? The school recommended that I go see a therapist and so my therapist would come pick me up from school on my lunch break and I would go see her. And then she prescribed Zoloft to me and my parents, my mom and my stepdad would just kind of trash on her because she asked them to come in for a sit down and then we left and they were just like trashing her saying what a joke she was.
[34:59] And that was the first time I felt like someone was listening to me. And they were totally against the whole thing and saying they were going to stop paying for it so I started paying for it with babysitting money. (sighs)
THERAPIST: That sounds cruel.
CLIENT: Well because they took it as criticism and it kind of, it kind of was. I mean, not criticism, but it was supposed to be like do you see your child? This is what she's doing, this is why, and they didn't like that, that it was about just, you know, that part of it, part of the things that I was really upset about was decisions that they were making about their life. And how it would affect them and like just this feeling of absolutely no control and this (sighs)...I just, that was the worst. I just hated it. [36:04]
THERAPIST: I think I said that that's cruel because it sounded like they were belittling your need for help or recognizing that you needed her.
CLIENT: No, absolutely. (long pause) And I mean everything, like just everything we did was just me with like yelling and punishment. Like anything, you know, we got terrible grades it was, I mean we were never grounded. That was, that was like a joke because we wouldn't listen. But, my brother moved back eventually. He moved back the last like two months of my senior year. Like, but by that point we were just, he was partying with all my friends and dealing drugs to everybody and it was like were just not on the same page anymore.
[36:58] And, but you know, like anything, it was just yelling and it's like, it just makes me so mad because it's so obviously not what we needed. You know, you were two adults and you were so caught up in this, you know you were the only two that had control over the situation and it was handled so poorly. (long pause) There's nothing anybody can do about it now, but definitely still makes me really mad. And it still makes me think like, how was nobody, like, how are you not talking to me about, you know like, I feel like my mom was really embarrassed by it. My mom was really, she knows that it was not handled the best way. And I think that she's really ashamed.
[38:00] But, (pause) like how is my stepdad walks around, like he is just such a pompous prick [inaudible]. (sighs) Like Mr. Family Man. Like, I now know what, how, why it bothers my brother. I didn't used to get it. My brother, it used to drive him crazy that Caleb acted like such a family man and it's like, people are just, kind of went along with everything because I, you know, growing up I just wanted a family so badly. I wanted my mom and dad and I wanted this lovely family that everyone else had and part of me, when my mom got married felt like, ok, even though I was really pissed, part of me felt that well we have that now.
[38:45] Like, I have this new stepsister and my mom's married and this guy's like, you know, nice and even though I was pissed I always felt like any feeling that I had about it was just because I was, like these adults are telling me that I'm overreacting and crazy, so I must be because I'm just a 15 year old kid, like what do I know? They're all saying that like I'm, I'm the one behaving badly and so when a bunch of adults are telling you that, you believe it. And, and so I just kind of went along, you know even though I was still angry and not really knowing, my whole life I thought it was everything about my dad, and I hate my dad, and my dad's terrible and that was a lot of it. But, there was this new element to it that I was telling myself was great, after the marriage part. (pause) (sighs) And I just, and I just, my brother always hated Caleb, always hated him. (sighs) (long pause)
[40:00] I also don't [inaudible] really because, just I felt my mom got taken away. Before it was like, you know my brother says that he would hear my mom and I talking like best friends about like her dates and stuff and that's how I felt. It wasn't probably appropriate, but like, you know, my mom would be going on a date and I would be helping her to get ready and we'd be, you know, she'd [leap] (ph) with my father. We were kind of partners. She'd go over to me and I'd, you know, like take care of the boys, make dinner and make sure everything was going ok and the boys did their homework or whatever. And I felt like I was, you know, it was me and mom and then Caleb came along and it was like, see ya, bye.
[41:00] Like, I've got my boyfriend now, I don't need any, I don't need to talk to you about anything anymore. But, you know, any help that you're, or authority that you're trying to have with the situation needs to go away, it needs to stop immediately because you're not the parent. It's like well, I've kind of been treated like the second parent for a few years now so it's a jarring thing to suddenly be told that you're not that role you were put in for so long. It felt like the only control I had in the whole situation and then I was, you know, thrown out. And that made me, that was the thing I felt most resentful about at the time.
THERAPIST: You were replaced.
CLIENT: Yeah. (long pause)
[42:00] I think it's, I think it's just I want to talk to my mother, but I don't know how to bring it up. I don't want to make her feel bad, but I just feel like I need to tell her, but I'm still feeling really upset. And it would kind of like an apology for how that was handled and for the fact that maybe I wasn't the one who was, I was, I was not behaving well, but maybe some of my behavior was a, justified isn't a word that I'd like to use, but explainable for (pause), I don't know. Dad wasn't the only bad thing. (long pause)
[42:58] It's like everybody just like, you know, thinks that my dad was this total, my dad was a total bad guy. He was a total asshole. But that was a thing I had to recover from, but I didn't get a chance because this new guy came along and I think he was kind of an asshole too.
THERAPIST: Well, it makes sense also why you didn't tell Chris, like, you can drink any beer but Coors Light because you're just not used to sort of taking you needs seriously or anyone else taking them seriously for that matter.
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: It seems like a, also like Coors Light was the best beer and he just loved it and like you'd be tearing him away from he really loved. It doesn't seem like a major request.
CLIENT: You're, you're right. Maybe tonight I should just say that and just tell him.
[43:58] Because even if I just say to myself, oh this won't go down, I think it's very, I think it's taken very lightly because I'm saying it very lightly.
THERAPIST: Well, also is it all beer that you smell like, he smells like your dad.
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: It's hard to know what the need is in that.
CLIENT: Yes, that's true. I'll think about that. I just need to [inaudible], because I was, it just, it just, I can't handle it. (long pause) (sighs) I feel better. (long pause)
[44:52] I'm just worried this summer, it's something, it's going to, I just don't want to, I would like to help out with this issue with my mom, or even with Caleb too. I guess I don't really feel the need for that. He is who he is and he's not my parent, like I don't want it to happen, but I don't want it to happen like how my brother does it sometimes. Where it's just wine induced kind of, kind of a fit and, but that's a hard, that's a hard thing for to do just to say like, can we go out to lunch and talk about this, this thing that none of us want to talk about? But I feel like it comes up in these other ways and I have this, you know, I have this, this feeling, this resentment towards the both of them and it comes out. And I get my digs in or I, you know, and I feel like I'll get one dig in that's going to kind of explode so I kind of want to do it before that happens. Because that's not the most productive...[46:11]
THERAPIST: We're going to need to stop for today. But, I will see you on Monday.
CLIENT: Ok, great.
THERAPIST: Take care.
CLIENT: Thanks, you too. Enjoy the nice weather.
THERAPIST: Thank you.
END TRANSCRIPT
